TX  -  PAID  UP 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER. 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

Park  Hill  Addition 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  3—  day  of       Hfivy  ,  2008,  between  the 

Lessor(s)  set  forth  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto,  as  Lessor,  whose  address  is  set  forth  on  Schedule  T  attached  hereto,  and 
Fort  Worth  Energy  Co,  LLC,  whose  address  is  1223  S.  Main  Street,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76104,  as  Lessee.  All  printed 
portions  of  this  Lease  were  prepared  by  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were 
prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

DEFINITIONS 


As  used  herein,  the  term  "Park  Hill  Addition"  shall  mean  the  area  within  the  Park  Hill  Addition  as  described  in  plat 
recorded  in  Volume  388,  Page  58,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

AGREEMENTS 

1  •  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  this  Lease,  and  the  covenants  herein, 
Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  land  described  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto  (the  "leased 
premises")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For 
purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent 
elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well 
as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  The  leased 
premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or 
accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  In  the  event  Lessor  owns  any  additional  acreage  than  that  for  which  bonus 
was  originally  paid,  Lessee  shall  pay  additional  bonus  at  a  rate  per  acre  not  less  than  the  rate  per  acre  on  which  bonus  was 
originally  paid  when  this  Lease  was  acquired.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  on  Schedule  I  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2-  Term.  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  forty-eight  (48)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or 
from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be 
twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's 
credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 
and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five 
percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate 
part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date 
on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more 
wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered 
hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee, 
such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this 
Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced,  in  the  Barnett  Shale  Formation,  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing 
in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom 
is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by 
this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90- 
day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that 
if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or 
wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period 
next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly 
understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease 
in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  a  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing 
plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  higher 
of  the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances 
produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based  upon  the 
higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products.  Notwithstanding 


anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  except  for  nonaffiliated  third-party  charges  incurred  by  Lessee,  in  no  event  shall  any  of 
Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production  costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering, 
dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  transportation,  manufacture,  processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for 
construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas 
produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  greater  than  or  less 
than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffiliates. 

As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than 
ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee, 
more  than  ten  percent  ( 1 0%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  by  check  or  by  draft.  Initial  bonus  monies  shall 
be  paid  to  Lessor  by  check  upon  Lessee1  s  receipt  of  Lesssor' s  executed  lease. 

5.  Continuous  Operations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (a  "dry 
hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities) 
permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  6  or  the 
action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional 
well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  one 
hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days 
after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not 
otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such 
operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in 
the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to 
protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided 
herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or 
interests  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered 
by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do 
so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil 
well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%),  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty  (640)  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%);  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well" 
shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment; 
and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of 
first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's 
acreage  shall  be  included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or  more 
instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental 
authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and 
stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such 
revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted 
accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination. 
Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 


2 


7.  Partial  Interests,  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate 
in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises, 

8.  Assignment,  Fort  Worth  Energy  Co,  LLC,  may  assign  its  lease  interest  only  to  XTO  Energy,  Inc.  whose  address 
is  810  Houston  Street,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76102.  With  the  preceding  exception,  the  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee 
hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators, 
successors  and  assigns;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  to  assign  any  part  of  this  Lease  it  shall  give  written  notice  to  the 
then  president  of  the  Park  Hill  Homeowners  Association  at  least  thirty  (30)  before  doing  so.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in 
ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly 
authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  reasonable  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee' s  usual  form  of  division  order.  Except  as 
otherwise  stated  herein,  if  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such 
obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so 
transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the 
obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to 
the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Release  and  Vertical  Push  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  in 
recordable  form  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area 
covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with 
the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns, 
shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  of  this  Lease  which  have  terminated  under  the 
terms  of  this  Lease.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or 
renewal  of  the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall 
terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  either  (1)  the  deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well  drilled 
on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation 
producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is 
the  deepest;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled 
therewith,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse 
between  operations. 

10.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the 
surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to 
drilling,  roads,  drilling  pads,  pipelines,  production  equipment,  flowlines,  and  geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  land 
within  the  Park  Hill  Addition  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  the  Park  Hill  Addition.  The  Lessee  shall  not  place  any 
gas  compression  station  within  1000  feet  of  any  portion  of  the  Park  Hill  Addition.  NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING 
WITHIN  THIS  LEASE  TO  THE  CONTRARY,  LESSEE  IS  PROHIBITED  AND  SHALL  NOT  ESTABLISH  A  DRILL 
PAD  SITE  ON  LAND  BORDERING  THE  STREET  OF  EIGHTH  AVENUE  BETWEEN  BERKELEY  PLACE  AND 
RYAN  PLACE  NOR  BORDERING  THE  TWO  NEIGHBORHOOD  SUBDIVISIONS  OF  BERKELEY  PLACE  AND 
RYAN  PLACE.  ANY  SUCH  ACTION  BY  LESSEE  TO  UTILIZE  ANY  EIGHTH  AVENUE  DRILL  SITE  LOCATION 
SHALL  IMMEDIATELY  SERVE  TO  VOID  THIS  LEASE  IN  ITS  ENTIRETY  WITH  NO  REFUND  OF  ANY  BONUS 
MONIES  BY  LESSOR  TO  LESSEE,  AND  LESSEE  UPON  LESSOR'S  REQUEST  MUST  EXECUTE  AND  RECORD 
A  RELEASE  OF  LEASE  WITHIN  THIRTY  (30)  DAYS  OF  ANY  SUCH  WRITTEN  REQUEST  BY  LESSOR  .  Lessee 
shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced 
from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to  comply  with  the  Gas  Drilling 
Ordinance  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  ("Drilling  Ordinance")  limiting  use  to  commercially  designated  routes  and  not  to  use 
residential  or  neighborhood  streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  any  lands  pooled  therewith  or 
otherwise. 

' '  •       Noise.  No  drilling  or  other  operations  shall  produce  a  sound  level  ( 1 )  greater  than  5dB  above  the  ambient 
noise  level  when  measured  at  any  location  within  Park  Hill  Addition  between  the  hours  of  7:00  a.m.  to  7:00  p.m,  or  (2) 
greater  than  3dB  above  the  ambient  noise  level  when  measured  at  any  location  within  Park  Hill  Addition  between  the 
hours  of  7:00  p.m.  to  7:00  a.m.;  provided,  however,  that  an  adjustment  to  the  noise  standard  set  fort  below  in  (1)  and  (2) 
may  be  permitted  in  accordance  with  the  tolerance  table  from  the  Drilling  Ordinance  set  forth  below.  Sound  level 
measurements  shall  be  made  with  a  sound  level  meter  conforming,  as  a  minimum,  to  the  requirements  of  the  American 
National  Standards  Institute.  Sound  level  measurements  shall  be  taken  at  a  distance  of  between  4  and  6  feet  above  ground 
level.  In  the  event  that  Lessor  obtains  a  sound  measurement  exceeding  that  allowed  by  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing  in  conformity  with  the  terms  of  this  Lease.  Lessee  shall  have  24  hours  from  the  receipt  of  such  notice  to 
cure  or  cease  any  condition  or  operation  which  results  in  a  sound  level  measurement  not  in  conformity  with  this  Lease. 
Any  sound  level  measurement  taken  at  any  location  within  Park  Hill  Addition  shall  be  deemed  to  affect  equally  all 
Lessors  within  Park  Hill  Addition,  and  any  violation  of  the  provisions  relating  to  sound  levels  contained  herein  shall  not 
be  waived,  modified,  or  terminated  without  the  written  consent  and  agreement  of  all  Lessors  within  Park  Hill  Addition. 

Adjustments  to  the  noise  standards  as  set  forth  above  in  subsection  of  this  section  may  be  permitted  in  accordance  with 
the  following: 


3 


Permitted  Increase  Duration  of  Increase 

(DBA)  (minutes)* 

5  15 

10  5 

15  1 

20  less  than  1 


Cumulative  minutes  during  any  one  hour 


If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the 
sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

12.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or 
implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of 
wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or 
orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or 
other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary 
permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory 
market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's 
option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of 
any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted. 

1 3.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with 
their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of 
action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought, 
including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers, 
employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the 
leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of 
any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee. 
Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties 
against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death), 
costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any  theory  including  tort, 
contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  including  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to 
environmental  hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related 
to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way  related  to 
Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or 
operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that 
may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other 
act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests, 
invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to 
be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided 
above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above.  EXCEPT 
AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR 
LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND 
WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING 
CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING 
THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE  INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT, 
CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 

14.  Noticed ,  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

15.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral 
estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by 
statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By 
acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted 
sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

16.  Top  Leasing  Permitted.  There  shall  be  no  prohibition  or  limitation  on  top  leasing. 

1 7.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable. 

18.    Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions 
herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 
enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so 

4 


determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
Lease,  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine, 
feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

19.  Fort  Worth  Energy  Co,  LLC  agrees  that  any  Division  Order  presented  to  Lessor,  whose  execution  is  a  condition  of 
paying  royalties,  contain  the  minimum  statutory  requirements  of  the  State  of  Texas, 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSEE: 


FORT  WORTH  ENERGY  CO,  LLC 


LESSORS: 

See  signatures,  addresses,  leased  premises  and 
acknowledgements  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


§ 


day  of 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
T>^M  (g/Lie^aj —  the     r/tZ^^Z  ^tey&xJr-     of  Fort  Worth  Energy  Co,  LLC,  on  behalf 

of  said  corporation. 


2008,  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


5 


ADDENDUM 


Attached  to  and  made  part  of  that  No  Surface  Use  Paid  Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated  /    ■  2008,  by  and  between 

the  Lessor(s)  named  below  and  Fort  Worth  Energy  Co,  LLC.  It  is  understood  and  agreed  fry  all  parties  that  the 
language  of  this  Addendum  supersedes  any  provisions  to  the  contrary  in  the  Lease  to  which  this  Addendum  is  attached. 

1 .  Definition  of  Operations.  For  the  purposes  of  the  last  sentence  of  paragraph  9  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations" 
means  operations  for  any  of  the  following:  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging 
back,  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  the  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas. 

2.  Additional  Surface  and  Subsurface  Use  Limitations.  Lessee  shall  not  use  the  surface  of  any  land  within  the  Park  Hill 
Addition  or  Park  Hill  Drive  from  University  Drive  to  McCart  Street  for  any  activities,  including  vehicular  traffic.  Any 
wellbore  drilled  below  the  Park  Hill  Addition  must  traverse  the  land  at  a  depth  no  shallower  than  1,000  feet. 

3.  Fort  Worth  City  Code.  At  a  minimum,  all  Lessee's  activities  shall  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  requirements 
of  code  and/or  ordinances  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  as  amended  or  supplemented  from  time  to  time  (the  "Fort 
Worth  City  Code"),  which  are  applicable  to  the  leased  premises  and,  to  the  extent  reasonably  practical,  in  a  manner  so  as 
to  minimize  the  impact  on  the  use  or  potential  use  of  the  leased  premises  for  residential  or  commercial  purposes.  If  there 
is  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Lease  and  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Fort  Worth  City  Code,  then  (i)  to  the 
extent  that  the  provisions  of  this  Lease  impose  a  lesser  obligation  on  Lessee  than  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Fort 
Worth  City  Code,  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Fort  Worth  City  Code  shall  control,  and  (ii)  to  the  extent  that  the 
provisions  of  this  Lease  impose  a  greater  obligation  on  Lessee  than  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Fort  Worth  City  Code, 
then  the  provisions  of  this  Lease  shall  control. 

4.  Prohibition  of  Condemnation  or  Eminent  Domain  Proceedings,  Lessee  shall  not,  either  directly  or  indirectly  through 
an  affiliate  or  third  party,  initiate  or  pursue  condemnation  or  eminent  domain  proceedings  for  any  purpose  with  respect  to 
any  land  within  the  Park  Hill  Addition,  including  streets  and  alleyways. 


Signed  for  identification  on  this^^day  of  .  2008. 


LESSEE: 
Fort  Worth  Energ 


Printed  Name:  ^  \\t^M^f^  H  fiy^r~ 
Title:  XL^O^gT  xtftt^v, 


LESSOR(S): 

See  signatures,  addresses,  leased  premises  and 
acknowledgements  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto. 


SCHEDULE  1 
6 


Lessor(s): 


Mailing  Address:       cQ-  3)0  ]      He  flft/y  A    ^     [n!  g 


Description  of  property  covered  by  this  lease: 


City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas 
ft  n^tn  acres 


Lessor: 


(Printed  name  of  Lessor) 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  this  v 

 .  2008,  by  V-  ^fcWstflQ 


[SEAL] 


it-*  .  -  4  ' 


f      ;i'i-.;.,j->ii  Lxp.re 


Notary  Public  in  and  forme  State  of  Texas 


Lessor: 


(Printed  name  of  Lessor) 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


^  ,  2008,  by       ^1  Cy{\<        ^Q\\A^\(y)  ^ssov- 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  this  (  day  of 

Kc^,  ,  2008,  by     ^  Cy{\  i 


'  '  ^  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


7 


FT  WORTH  ENERGY  CO  LLC 
1223  S  MAIN  ST 


FT  WORTH  TX  76104 

Submitter:  FT  WORTH  ENERGY  CO  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$40.00 


! 

D2081 76799  ! 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


