NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

STANDARD  LEASE  V.5  

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  8th  day  of  May  ,  2008,  by  and  between 

Scott  R.  Davidson,  herein  and  dealing  in  his  sole  and  separate  property  as  Lessor  {whether  one  or  more), 
whose  address  is 

2620  West  Arkansas  Ln  Arlington,  TX  7601  b 

and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES  L.L.C.  2100  Ross  Ave  Suite  1870  Dallas.  Texas,  75201,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the 
party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the 
following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

_,  Block      /S  of  the     /^/W dt/et/l^**  *?4J///j*h&\  addition  to  the  City  of 

Fort  Worth,  Texas,  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  in  that  certain  /P/tf'  recorded  in  Volume 

38B'/*/        Page         09       of  the      PA^         Records.  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  { S'S'Vf  He  (o*y  ) 

in  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  _  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 

reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus, 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose 
of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  3  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or 
other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and 
gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof, 
less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise 
marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for 
production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price) 
pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if 
at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  there  from  is 
not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shalf  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  there  from  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered 
by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or 
before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  there  from  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is 
otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in 
royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render 
Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be 
Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by 
draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last 
address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept 
payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at 
the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances 
to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the 
leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all 
depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  30  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose 
of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic 
feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the 
net  acreage  covered  by  this  tease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by 
Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In 
making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record 
a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in 
such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 


1 


arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  there  under,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released. 
If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines, 
tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in 
writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands-  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material, 
water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12-  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from 
Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon 
expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered 
and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to 
purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

1 3.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period-  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and 
there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable 
time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are 
situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or 
other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to 
whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

17.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  In  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and 
may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms 
are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  Into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market 
conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or 
different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms 
which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

See  "Exhibit  A"  attached  hereto  and  by  reference  made  a  part  hereof. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 

LESSOR  (WHETHER  OP 

Signature: 

Printed  Name:  Scott  R.  Davidson 


Signature:  

Printed  Name: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


ML 


_day  of 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


_day  of. 


20 


Notary  Public,  State 
Notary's  name  {printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


..  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


2 


Exhibit  "A 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  PAID  UP  OIL,  GAS  AND 
MINERAL  LEASE  DATED  May  8th,  2008, 

Scott  R.  Davidson,  herein  and  dealing  in  his  sole  and  separate  property,  AS  LESSOR,  AND 
DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES,  L.L.C.,  AS  LESSEE. 

DEDUCTIONS  AGAINST  ROYALTIES:  All  royalties  provided  for  in  this  lease,  including  royalties 
taken  in  kind,  shall  be  determined  and  delivered  to  Lessor  free  of  all  deductions,  costs  and  charges  for 
development,  production,  compression,  treating,  storing,  separating  dehydrating,  marketing, 
processing,  gathering,  transporting  and  otherwise  making  the  oil  and  gas  ready  for  sale  or  use.  All 
royalties,  however,  shall  bear  all  production  and  severance  taxes  applicable  to  Lessor's  share  of 
production,  if  paid  by  Lessee  and  deducted  from  Lessor's  royalty.  Furthermore,  Lessor's  royalty  shall 
bear  its  proportionate  part  of  all  reasonable  and  necessary  costs  actually  incurred  by  Lessee  in 
transporting  gas  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

SULPHUR  AND  OTHER  ASSOCIATED  PRODUCTS:  On  sulphur  and  any  other  associated 
products  incidentally  produced  and  sold  with  oil  and/or  gas  under  this  lease  (other  than  liquid  or 
gaseous  hydrocarbons),  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  percent  (25%)  of  the  market  value  of  each  of 
such  products.  Such  market  value  shall  be  determined  by  the  greater  of  (i)  the  market  price  of  each 
product  for  the  month  in  which  the  product  is  produced  or  (ii)  the  average  gross  sales  price  of  each 
product  for  the  month  in  which  the  product  is  sold. 

TIME  AND  METHOD  OF  PAYMANT:  If  there  are  no  defects  or  adverse  claims  against  Lessor's 
title,  then  payments  of  royalty,  accompanied  by  adequate  accounting  data  to  support  same,  shall  be 
made  by  deposit,  postage  prepaid,  in  United  States  Mail  no  later  than  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days 
after  the  commencement  of  production.  Thereafter,  unless  otherwise  specifically  provided  herein,  all 
payments  of  royalties  shall  be  made  by  deposit,  postage  prepaid,  in  the  United  States  Mail  on  or 
before  the  60th  day  after  the  calendar  month  in  which  production  occurred.  Any  royalty  not  paid 
within  the  time  specified  herein  shall  be  deemed  delinquent  and  shall  bear  simple  interest  at  the  rate  of 
prime  plus  two  (2)  percentage  points.  However,  in  no  event  shall  such  interest  rate  exceed  the 
maximum  legal  rate  that  can  be  charged  Lessee.  Lessee  shall  not  be  penalized  for  delay  in  Lessor 
receiving  royalty  payments  resulting  from  delay  in  postal  services  when  the  royalty  payments  has 
been  mailed  to  Lessor  by  the  due  date  or  when  a  delay  is  the  result  of  information  provided  by  Lessor. 
Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  Lessors 
rights  to  receive  or  recover  interest  due  thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof  unless  the  written 
acceptance  or  acknowledgment  by  Lessor  to  Lessee  expressly  so  provides.  Any  tender  or  payment  to 
Lessor  of  a  sum  less  than  the  total  amount  due  Lessor  hereunder  which  is  made  or  intended  to  be  made 
as  an  offer  of  settlement  or  an  accord  and  satisfaction  by  or  on  behalf  of  Lessee  must  be  accompanied 
by  a  Notice  of  Settlement  Offer,  so  denominated,  addressed  to  Lessor.  Any  such  offer  of  settlement 
submitted  solely  by  the  tender  of  a  check  containing  language  of  settlement  or  accord  and  satisfaction 
printed  or  otherwise  inserted  thereon  shall  not  be  deemed  to  offer  of  settlement  unless  accompanied  by 
such  a  Notice  of  Settlement  Offer.  Lessee  shall  pay  all  reasonable  attorneys  fees  incurred  by  Lessor  in 
connection  with  any  lawsuit  in  which  Lessor  obtains  a  final  unappealable  judgement  to  recover  any 
royalties  or  interest  resulting  from  Lessees  failure  to  pay  within  the  period  set  forth  herein. 

PURCHASER'S  FAILURE  TO  PAY  ROYALITIES:  Lessee  shall  remain  liable  for  royalities  which 
are  required  to  be  paid  to  Lessor  but  which  are  not  actually  paid  as  a  result  of  the  failure  or  bankruptcy 
of  any  third  party  purchaser  and  irrespective  of  the  execution  by  Lessor  of  a  Division  Order  or  any 
similar  agreement  in  favor  of  such  third  party  purchaser,  provided  however,  this  provision  shall  not 
permit  Lessor  double  or  multiple  collection  to  a  particular  royalty  payment  and  further  provided  that  if 
Lessee  actually  makes  payment  of  royalty  of  Lessor  pursuant  to  this  provision  as  result  of  the  failure 
or  bankruptcy  of  such  third  party  purchaser  then  Lessor  shall  assign  to  Lessee  any  and  all  rights  that 
Lessor  may  have  against  such  third  party  purchaser  so  as  to  place  Lessee  in  the  position  of  Lessor  as 
against  such  third  party  purchaser. 

LEASE  USE  OF  OIL  AND  GAS:  Lessee  shall  have  use  of  oil,  gas  and  water  from  said  lands  except 
water  from  Lessor's  tanks  and  wells,  for  all  operations  hereunder.  Such  use  includes  Lessee's  use  of 
gas  from  said  Lands  for  all  operations  on  or  near  said  Lands  involved  the  compression  and/or 
dehydration  of  Lessee's  gas.  Any  authorized  use  for  oil  or  gas  shall  be  deducted  in  computing 
Lessor's  royalty  on  oil  and/or  gas.  and  Lessor  shall  not  be  paid  royalty  on  said  volumes. 

"TAKE  OR  PAY"  PAYMENTS:  If  lessee  enters  into  a  gas  purchase  contract  which  contains  what  is 
commonly  referred  to  as  a  "take  or  pay"  provision  (whereby  the  gas  purchaser  agrees  to  take  delivery 
of  a  certain  minimum  volume  of  gas  over  a  specified  term  at  a  specified  term  at  a  specified  price  and, 
failing  to  take  such  required  delivery,  agrees  to  make  payment  to  the  producer)  and  the  purchaser 
under  such  gas  purchase  contract  makes  payments  to  Lessee  by  virtue  of  such  purchaser's  failure  to 
take  delivery  of  such  minimum  volume  or  quantity  of  gas,  then  Lessor  shall  be  entitled  to  its  royalty 
share  of  all  such  sums  paid  to  Lessee  or  producer  under  the  "pay"  provisions  of  such  gas  purchase 
contract.  Such  royalty  payments  shall  be  due  and  owing  to  Lessor  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  such  payments  by  Lessee.  Any  royalty  payments  made  to  Lessor  under  the  "pay"  obligation  of  any 
"take  or  pay"  gas  contract  shall  be  applied  as  a  credit  toward  lessee's  minimum  royalty  obligation.  If 


the  gas  purchaser  "makes  up"  such  gas  within  the  period  called  for  in  the  gas  contract  and  Lessee  iss 
required  to  give  such  purchaser  a  credit  for  gas  previously  paid  for  but  not  taken,  then  Lessor  shall  not 
be  entitled  to  royalty  on  such  "make  up"  gas,  except  to  the  extent  of  any  price  different  applicable  to 
such  "make  up"  volumes  as  provided  for  in  the  applicable  gas  purchase  contract.  In  addition,  in  the 
event  any  portion  of  such  take  or  pay  payments  are  required  to  be  refunded  to  the  purchaser  because 
of  Lessee's  inability  to  deliver  to  purchaser  recoupment  volumes  or  for  any  other  reason  contemplated 
under  the  terms  of  the  applicable  gas  purchase  contract,  Lessee  shall  be  entitled  to  recoup,  out  of 
Lessors  future  royalty  payments,  Lessor's  proportionate  part  of  such  refund  obligation.  However,  at 
such  time  as  the  well  or  wells  from  which  such  recoupment  is  to  be  made  are  plugged,  by  Lessee, 
Lessor  shall  be  obligated  to  repay  any  unrecouped  portion  of  such  refund  obligation. 

If  Lessee  is  not  producing  any  quantities  of  gas  from  leased  premises  but  is  receiving  payment  under 
the  "pay"  portion  of  such  "take  or  pay"  gas  purchase  contract  provision,  such  payments  shall  not 
relieve  Lessee  of  the  duty  to  make  shut-in  royalty  payments  if  Lessee  desires  to  continue  this  lease, 
but  such  "take  or  pay"  royalty  payments  shall  be  applied  shall  be  applied  as  a  credit  against  any  shut- 
in  royalty  obligation  of  the  Lessee. 

Lessor  shall  be  entitled  to  its  royalty  share  of  the  value  of  any  benefits  obtained  by  or  granted  to 
Lessee  from  any  gas  purchase  and/or  transporter  for  the  amendment,  modification,  extension, 
alteration,  consolidation,  transfer,  cancellation  or  settlement  of  gas  purchase  contract  and/or 
transportation  agreement  which  arises  out  of  any  claims  or  disputes  relating  to  take  or  pay  under  such 
agreements. 

DIVISION  ORDER  NOT  REQUIRED:  The  execution  and  delivery  of  a  division  order  shall  never  be 
a  requirement  or  condition  precedent  to  distributing  actual  royalties  to  Lessor.  If  requested  by  Lessee, 
Lessor  will  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessee  or  the  purchaser  of  oil  or  gas,  a  written  statement  of  Lessor's 
interest  in  minerals  or  royalties  and  his  current  address  and  social  security  or  taxpayer's  ID  number 
and  Lessor  agrees  to  reimburse  Lessee  for  any  incorrect  or  unauthorized  payment  received  by  such 
Lessor  and  shall  indemnify  Lessee  for  such  payments  made.  The  terms  and  provisions  contained  in 
this  lease  may  not  be  amended  or  otherwise  affected  by  any  division  order,  notwithstanding  the 
execution  of  same  by  Lessor. 

RESERVES.  CONTRACT  AND  OTHER  RECORDS:  During  Lessees  regular  office  hours  and  on  an 
annual  basis,  Lessor  shall  have  reasonable  access  to  all  information  concerned  the  drilling,  deepening, 
plugging  back,  coring,  testing  and  completing  of  any  and  all  wells;  all  driller  logs,  well  logs  and 
survey  production  charts  and  records,  information  concerning  the  production  and  marketing  of  oil  and 
gas  from  said  lands,  along  with  copies  of  all  forms  filed  with  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  or 
any  other  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  over  Lessees  operations  on  this  Lease.  Lessor 
agrees  to  not  divulge  all  non-public  information  obtained  under  the  terms  of  this  paragraph  to  parties 
other  than  Lessors  attorneys,  geologists,  petroleum  engineers,  accountants,  financial  consultants, 
guardians  or  other  personnel  or  legal  representatives  (who  shall  agree  in  writing  to  be  under  the  same 
duty  of  confidentiality)  until  such  information  is  generally  available  to  the  public. 

The  Lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  solely  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  2 
consecutive  years,  beyond  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term. 

Subject  to  Lessee's  right  to  conduct  continuous  drilling  operations  as  set  forth  in  paragraph  7  of  the 
printed  portion  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  this  Lease,  all  Lessee's  rights  shall  automatically 
terminate  as  to  all  the  said  Land,  save  and  except,  as  to  each  well  then  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas 
in  paying  quantities  the  portion  unit  surrounding  the  well,  as  established  pursuant  to  the  rules  and 
regulations  of  the  Texas  Railroad  Commission,  and  shall  also  terminate  as  to  all  depths  one  hundred 
(100)  feet  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation  drilled  in  the 
well  located  on  each  unit,  Any  acreage  assigned  to  a  proration  unit  shall  be  considered  subject  to  a 
separate  Lease  containing  the  same  terms  and  provisions  as  this  Lease.  Each  separate  Lease  may  be 
kept  in  force  and  effect  only  by  actual  or  constructive  production  from  of  operations  on  the  said  Lands 
subject  to  that  Lease,  without  regard  to  production  or  drilling  operations  on  other  said  Lands  retained 
by  Lessee  under  a  separate  Lease  or  Leases.  Within  thirty  (30)  days  after  partial  termination  of  this 
lease  as  provided  herein,  Lessee  shall  execute  and  record  a  release  or  releases  containing  a  satisfactory 
legal  description  of  the  acreage  and/or  depths  not  retained  hereunder.  (The  duty  of  Lessee  regarding 
the  filing  of  a  release  is  more  particularly  set  forth  herein.) 

OFFSET  WELLS:  Lessee  agrees  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  drainage  by  well  or  wells  on 
adjacent  or  adjoining  land  located  within  330  feet  of  the  leased  premises,  whether  owned  by  Lessor  or 
third  parties  as  well  unless  gas  therefrom  is  being  marketed.  1  lieu  of  drilling,  reworking  or 
recompleting  an  offset  to  any  such  oil  or  gas  well,  as  would  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  under 
similar  circumstances,  Lessee  shall  have  the  option  to  either  release  all  rights  under  that  tract  of  land 
adjacent  to  the  offsetting  well  (as  to  the  production  interval  only),  or  pay  Lessor,  as  royalty,  a  sum 
equal  to  the  payments  which  would  be  payable  under  this  lease  on  the  production  from  such  offset 
well  had  same  been  produced  from  the  leased  premises.  In  such  later  event,  as  long  as  Lessee  may 
elect  to  pay  such  royalty  in  lieu  of  drilling  or  reworking  or  recompleting  an  offset  well,  Lessee  shall 
have  satisfied  its  offset  obligation  to  Lessor  as  to  such  well. 


POLLUTION:  In  all  its  operations  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  use  its  best  professional  judgment,  in 
keeping  with  industry  wide  standards,  and  all  proper  safeguards  to  prevent  the  unauthorized  spread  of 
pollution.  Without  limiting  the  forgoing,  the  unauthorized  spread  of  pollution  of  coastal  wetlands, 
natural  waterways,  rivers  and  impounded  water  shall  be  prevented  by  use  of  containment  facilities 
sufficient  to  prevent  spillage,  seepage  or  ground  water  contamination.  In  the  event  of  the  unauthorized 
spread  of  pollution  resulting  from  Lessees  operations  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  use  all  reasonable  means 
at  its  disposal  to  recapture  all  escaped  hydrocarbons  or  other  pollutants  and  shall  be  responsible  for  all 
damage  to  public  and  private  properties. 

TO  CONDUCT  OPERATIONS  IN  AN  ENVIRONMETALLY  SOUND  MANNER:  Lessee  shall 
install  and  maintain  all  equipment  and  conduct  all  operations  in  an  environmentally  sound  manner,  in 
accordance  with  all  applicable  regulations  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  the  Texas  Natural 
Resources  Conservation  Commission  (or  successor),  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency  and  any 
other  governmental  authorities  with  jurisdiction  over  the  operations  covered  under  this  Lease.  Lessee 
shall  not  use,  store  or  dispose  of  any  hazardous  materials  on  the  leased  premises,  except  to  the  extent 
use  of  such  substance  is  contemporaneously  required  for  actual  oil  or  gas  operations  on  said  lands,  and 
any  such  substances  shall  be  used,  stored  and  disposed  of  in  a  safe  manner,  in  compliance  with  all 
applicable  governmental  regulations.  In  no  event  shall  any  hazardous  waste  be  stored  and  disposed  of 
on  the  leased  premised  in  a  manner  which  could  cause  such  lands  to  be  classified  as  a  hazardous  waste 
storage  or  disposal  facility.  Lessee  shall  insure  that  all  contractors  comply  with  the  terms  of  this 
paragraph.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  notified  of  any  discharge  or  release  of  a  hazardous  substance  or  any 
other  environmentally  harmful  or  dangerous  conditions  on  said  lands  resulting  from  Lessee's 
operations,  Lessee  shall  promptly  take  all  actions  required  to  correct  such  hazardous,  and  dangerous  or 
harmful  conditions  in  accordance  with  applicable  law  and  regulations  and  sound  engineering 
practices.  Lessor  shall  have  no  responsibility  to  inspect  or  oversee  Lessee's  operations  or  to  identify  or 
correct  any  potential  harmful,  dangerous  or  damaging  conditions  resulting  from  Lessee's  operations, 
and  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  control  any  details  of  Lessees  operations,  nor  to  designate  or  control 
Lessees  contractors,  Neither  Lessee  nor  any  contractors  shall  have  any  right  of  contribution  or 
indemnity  from  Lessor  for  any  matters  resulting  from  Lessee  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or 
conditions  on  the  leased  premises  or  conditions  on  the  leased  premises  resulting  from  Lessees 
operations  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  indemnifies  and  holds  Lessor  harmless  from  any  and  all 
costs,  expenses  and  liabilities  Lessor  might  incur  relating  to  any  harmful,  damaging  or  dangerous 
conditions  caused  by  and  resulting  from  Lessees  operations  hereunder,  the  release  or  discharge  by 
Lessee  of  any  hazardous  substance  in  connection  with  Lessees  operations  hereunder,  or  any  other 
breach  of  the  terms  of  this  paragraph. 

ASSIGNMENTS:  The  lease  may  be  assigned  at  any  time.  All  assignments  must  be  recorded  in  the 
county  where  the  leased  premises  are  located.  In  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  which  causes  a 
change  in  operator  or  responsibility  for  the  management  of  the  terms,  conditions  and  obligations  of 
this  lease,  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  shall  be  required  to  furnish  a  copy  of  the  assignment  to 
Lessor  including  the  name  and  address  of  the  assignee  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  such  assignment; 
and  Lessor  shall  likewise  be  notified  upon  each  subsequent  assignment.  Every  assignee  shall  succeed 
to  all  rights  and  be  subject  to  all  obligations,  liabilities,  and  penalties  owed  to  the  Lessor  accruing 
from  the  date  of  assignment. 

FORCE  MAJEURE:  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  expressed  or  implied 
covenant  of  this  lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or  from  producing  oil 
or  gas  therefrom  after  effort  made  in  good  faith  ,  by  reason  of  war ,  rebellion,  riots,  strikes,  fire,  acts  of 
God  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  government  authority,  then  while  so  prevented,  Lessee's 
obligations  to  comply  with  such  covenants  shall  be  suspended  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in 
damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith  and  this  lease  shall  be  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee 
is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing 
oil  and  gas  from  the  leased  premises  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted 
against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  In  the  event  Lessee  intends  to 
claim  any  rights  under  this  paragraph,  Lessee  shall  advise  Lessor  or  Lessor's  agent  in  writing  within  a 
period  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  Lessee  claims  any  obligation  hereunder  is  suspended,  setting 
forth  in  reasonable  detail  such  facts  as  Lessee  relies  upon  to  make  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph 
applicable.  Notwithstanding  anything  above  stated  the  contrary,  if  Lessee  is  prevented  from 
complying  with  this  lease  or  resorts  to  force  majeure  because  of  Lessee's  intentional  or  negligent  acts 
or  omissions  then  this  provision  shall  not  be  available  to  Lessee  to  perpetuate  this  lease  or  suspend 
Lessee's  obligations. 

LESSEE'S  RIGHT  OF  ACCESS  FOLLOWING  PARTIAL  RELEASE:  In  the  event  any  of  the 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  is  released,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  protect  against  drainage,  if 
any,  between  and  among  separately  leased  tracts.  Notwithstanding  a  partial  termination  of  this  lease 
under  the  above  provisions,  it  is  agreed  that  Lessee  shall  have  and  retain  such  easements  of  ingress 
and  egress  over  those  lands  originally  covered  hereby  as  shall  be  necessary  to  enable  Lessee  to 
develop  and  operate  the  portion  or  portions  of  this  lease  then  in  effect  for  the  production  of  oil  or  gas 
therefrom  and  it  is  further  agreed  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  for  Lessee  to  remove  or  relocate  any 
pipelines,  tank  batteries  or  other  surface  equipment  or  installations  from  any  portions  of  this  lease 
which  have  terminated  for  so  long  as  some  continue  to  be  used  for  the  development  of  an  operation  on 
such  portions  of  this  lease  as  continue  in  force  and  effect  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith. 


LESSOR'S  RESERVED  ACCESS  TO  RELEASED  HORIZONS;  In  connection  with  the  horizons 
which  may  be  released  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the  other  provisions  of  this  lease,  Lessor  reserves 
unto  themselves,  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns,  the  right  to  use  said  horizons  and  the  surface 
above  same,  as  well  as  the  right  to  drill  through  and  explore  through  the  horizons  retained  by  Lessee; 
provided,  however,  such  operations  by  Lessor  (or  its  lessee)  shall  not  unreasonably  interfere  with 
Lessee's  operations  and  use  of  the  leased  premises. 

PLUGGING  OF  ABANDONED  WELLS:  Subject  to  the  provisions  herein,  Lessee  agrees  to  plug,  in 
accordance  with  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  or  other  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  all  dry  holes  drilled  by  Lessee  on  the  leased  premises  and  all  wells 
which  have  once  produced  but  which  have  permanently  ceased  producing.  If  Lessee  shall  fail  to  plug 
any  such  well  as  herein  provided,  Lessor  may,  at  Lessor's  election,  plug  same,  in  which  event  Lessee 
shall  reimburse  Lessor  promptly  for  all  reasonable  expenses  incurred. 

NOTIFICATION  OF  LESSEE'S  EMPLOYEES  AND  CONTRACTORS:  Lessee  shall  apprise  every 
contractor,  subcontractor  and  employee  who  enters  upon  the  leased  premises  of  the  provisions  of  this 
lease  pertaining  to  prohibitions  against  fishing  and  hunting,  vehicle  access,  and  surface  use  and 
protection,  prior  to  their  entry  upon  the  leased  premises. 

RIGHT  AND  DUTY  TO  FILE  RELEASES:  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  execute 
and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  place  of  record  in  the  appropriate  County  Records  a  release  or  releases 
covering  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease  as  to  such  portion  of  the 
leased  premises.  In  the  event  any  such  release  is  filed  for  record,  written  notice  of  such  filing, 
together  with  a  copy  of  the  release  shall  be  given  to  Lessor  at  the  above  stated  address 
contemporaneously  with  the  filing  of  such  release.  Within  thirty  (30)  days  after  this  lease  terminates 
for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  lessee  shall  execute  and  place  of  record 
in  the  office  of  the  County  Clerk  of  the  County  in  which  the  leased  premises  are  located,  a  release  of 
this  lease  as  to  that  portion  of  the  leased  premises  which  is  no  longer  covered  by  this  lease.  Written 
notice  of  such  filing,  together  with  a  copy  of  the  release  shall  be  given  to  Lessor  at  the  above  stated 
address  contemporaneously  with  the  filing  of  such  release.  If  Lessee  fails  to  properly  prepare  or 
timely  file  a  release,  then  Lessor  shall  make  written  demand  upon  Lessee  requesting  the  release.  This 
demand  shall  include  the  warning  that  if  Lessee  fails  to  properly  prepare  or  file  the  release  within 
thirty  (30)  days  of  said  demand,  and  such  failure  is  not  due  to  any  disagreement  between  Lessor  and 
Lessee  as  to  the  form  or  substance  of  such  release  or  partial  release,  Lessor  shall  have  the  right  to 
impose,  and  lessee  shall  be  liable  to  Lessor  for,  liquidated  damages  in  the  amount  of  One  Thousand 
and  No/100  ($1,000.00)  Dollars,  to  be  paid  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  demand  by  Lessor. 

nNDEMNITY  AND  INSURANCE  PROTECTION:  Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify,  protect  and  hold 
Lessor  (and  surface  owner,  if  different  from  Lessor)  harmless  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims, 
demands,  costs,  (including  but  not  limited  to  reasonable  attorney  and  expert  fees)  expenses,  damages, 
losses,  causes  of  action  or  suits  for  damages  arising  out  of  injury  to  persons  (including  death)  and 
injury  or  damage  to  or  loss  of  any  property  or  improvements  caused  by  Lessee,  its  agents,  employees, 
servants,  contractors  or  any  person  acting  under  its  direction  or  control.  Further,  Lessor  shall  never  be 
liable  for  any  claims,  demands,  costs,  expenses,  damages,  losses,  causes  of  action  or  suits  for  damages 
because  of  injury  to  persons  or  property  arising  out  of  the  negligence,  gross  negligence,  negligence  per 
se,  strict  liability  or  any  other  acts  or  omissions  of  Lessee,  its  agents,  employees,  servants,  contractors 
or  any  person  acting  under  its  direction  and  control  on  the  lands.  Prior  to  the  commencement  of  any 
operations  on  the  leased  land,  and  annually  thereafter,  Lessee  shall  purchase  liability  insurance  and 
shall  cause  Lessee's  insurance  provider  to  furnish  a  certificate  stating  that  there  is  in  force  a  liability 
insurance  policy  in  a  sufficient  amount  to  cover  the  potential  liabilities  under  this  lease.  Any  insurance 
requirements  may  be  met  by  a  combination  of  self-insurance,  primary,  and  excess  policies. 

REDUCTION  OF  PAYMENTS:  If  at  any  time  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  the 
extended  term,  this  lease  covers  a  lesser  number  of  acres  than  the  total  amount  described  herein, 
payments  that  are  made  on  a  per  acre  basis  hereunder  shall  be  reduced  according  to  the  number  of 
acres  released,  surrendered,  or  otherwise  severed,  so  that  payments  determined  on  a  per  acre  basis 
under  the  terms  of  this  lease  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  number  of  acres  actually  retained  and 
covered  by  this  lease. 

LEASE  SECURITY:  Lessee  shall  exercise  reasonable  diligence  to  protect  said  premises  and  to 
prevent  theft  of  oil,  gas  and  other  hydrocarbons  produced  from  said  lease.  This  includes,  but  is  not 
limited  to,  the  installation  of  all  necessary  equipment,  seals,  locks,  or  other  appropriate  protective 
devices  on  or  at  all  access  points  at  the  lease's  production,  gathering  and  storage  systems  where  theft 
of  hydrocarbons  can  occur. 

VENUE  AND  RIGHT  TO  INTEREST:  The  rights  and  duties  of  the  parties  under  this  Lease  shall  be 
governed  by  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas.  The  parties  further  agree  that  the  District  Court  in  and  for 
county  or  counties  in  which  the  leased  premises  are  situated  shall  have  exclusive  jurisdiction  and 
venue  of  any  and  all  causes  of  action  between  the  parties  concerning  this  lease.  In  the  event  any 
payments  herein  required  to  be  made  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  are  not  made  when  due,  the  same  shall  bear 
interest  at  the  rate  of  prime  plus  two  (2)  percentage  points  from  the  date  payment  is  due  until  paid. 
However,  in  no  event  shall  such  interest  rate  exceed  the  maximum  legal  rate  that  can  be  charged 
Lessee  under  applicable  law. 


RECORDING  OF  MEMORANDUM  OF  LEASE:  In  lieu  of  filing  this  lease  for  record  in  the  office  of 
the  County  Clerk  in  which  the  lands  covered  hereby  is  located,  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  a 
memorandum  of  this  lease,  making  appropriate  reference  hereto,  may  be  filed  for  record  in  said 
county.  The  provisions  of  this  lease  are  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  respective  heirs, 
executors,  administrators,  successors,  and  assigns.  The  pronouns  of  any  gender  shall  include  the  other 
genders,  and  either  the  singular  or  the  plural  shall  include  the  other,  Lessee,  by  its  acceptance  of  this 
lease,  agrees  and  obligates  itself  to  all  terms  and  provisions  of  this  lease. 

Lessee  agrees  that  after  the  lease  or  a  memorandum  of  the  lease  has  been  filed  of  record,  it 
will  deliver  to  the  royalty  owners  a  copy  of  this  lease  and  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  of  the  lease 
showing  the  filing  and  recording  information. 

COVENANTS  RUNNING  WITH  THE  LAND:  The  terms  and  conditions  contained  herein  shall 
constitute  covenants  running  with  the  land  and  shall  be  binding  upon,  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor  and 
Lessee  and  their  respective  heirs,  legal  representatives,  successors  and  assigns. 

ALL  CHANGES  MUST  BE  IN  WRITING:  No  change  or  modification  of  this  lease  shall  be  valid  or 
binding  unless  the  same  is  made  or  specified  in  writing  and  signed  by  the  parties,  and  no  course  of 
dealing  between  the  parties  shall  be  construed  to  alter  the  terms  hereof  this  lease  and  any  attached 
addenda  or  exhibits  signed  by  both  parties  constitutes  the  entire  agreement  between  Lessor  and 
Lessee.  No  prior  written  or  prior  written  or  prior  contemporaneous  oral  promises  or  representations 
shall  be  binding. 

EXHIBITS-ONE  COMPLETE  INSTRUMENT:  The  exhibits,  if  any,  attached  hereto  or  referred  to 
herein  are  incorporated  herein  and  made  a  part  hereof  for  all  purposes.  As  used  herein,  the  expression 
"this  agreement"  or  "this  lease"  means  the  body  of  this  Agreement  and  such  exhibits;  and  the 
expressions  "herein",  "hereunder"  and  other  words  of  similar  import  refer  to  this  Agreement  and  such 
exhibits  as  a  whole  and  not  to  any  particular  part  or  subdivision  thereof. 

SEVERABILITY:  If  any  clause  or  provision  of  this  lease  is  illegal,  invalid  or  unenforceable  under 
present  or  future  laws,  then  it  is  the  intention  of  the  parties  hereto  that  the  remainder  of  the  lease  shall 
not  be  affected  thereby,  and  it  is  also  the  intention  of  both  parties  that,  in  lieu  of  each  clause  or 
provision  that  is  illegal,  invalid  or  unenforceable,  there  shall  be  added  as  a  part  of  this  lease  a  mutually 
agreed  to  clause  or  be  possible  and  be  legal,  valid  and  enforceable. 

N ON- WAIVER:  Failure  of  either  party  to  declare  any  default  immediately  upon  occurrence  thereof, 
or  delay  in  taking  any  action  in  connection  therewith,  shall  not  waive  such  action  as  might  be  lawful 
or  authorized  hereunder,  either  in  law  or  in  equity. 

FUTURE  DOCUMENTS:  At  any  time  during  the  term  of  this  lease  if  Lessee  requires  Lessor  to 
execute  any  document,  including  division  orders,  surface  leases,  right-of-way  agreements,  seismic 
agreements,  or  any  other  agreement  connected  in  any  way  to  this  lease  agreement,  the  lands  covered 
hereby  or  the  minerals  extracted  from  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  agrees  that  Lessor's  execution  of 
such  agreement(s)  shall  not  constitute  a  waiver  of  any  claim,  demand  or  cause  of  action  Lessor  or  any 
royalty  owner  may  have  or  claim  for  any  breach  of  an  expressed  or  implied  obligation  arising  out  of  or 
in  any  way  connected  with  this  lease  unless  expressly  stated  in  such  document. 

WARRANTY  CLAUSE:  Lessor  does  not  expressly,  impliedly  or  otherwise  WARRANT  title  to  the 
mineral  rights  under  said  land.  Lessee  accepts  this  Lease  on  an  "AS  IS"  "WHERE  IS"  and  "WITH 
ALL  FAULTS"  basis  and  without  any  representations  or  warranties  as  to  merchantability  or  fitness 
for  a  particular  purpose. 

COMPRESSOR  STATIONS:  No  compressor  station  or  stations  may  be  erected  on  the  premises 
without  Lessor  and  Lessee  first  entering  into  a  mutual  agreement  as  to  the  location  thereof,  if  any,  the 
price  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  therefore,  and  the  terms  and  conditions  of  such. 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  ■  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$40.00 


D2081 86092 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


