Electronically  Recorded 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Official  Public  Records 


2008  May  20  02:03  PM 
Fee:  $  20.00 


D2081 87765 


Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


2  Pages 


FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


Lessor:  Melvin  M.  Van  Rie  and  wife,  Crystal  K.  Van  Rie 
6309  Branch  Hollow  Ln, 
Arlington,  TX  76001 

Lessee:  Cheaha  Land  Services,  LLC 
PO  Box  122119 
Fort  Worth,  TX  76121 

Effective  Date:  August  17,  2007 

Lessee,  named  above,  is  the  present  owner  of  an  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  (the  "Lease"),  dated  August 
16, 2007,  from  Melvin  M.  Van  Rie  and  wife,  Crystal  K.  Van  Rie,  and  recorded  in  Instrument  #D207415720  of  the 
Official  Records  of  the  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

At  the  time  the  Lease  was  entered  into,  the  description  of  the  lands  contained  in  the  Lease  was  believed  by 
Lessor  and  Lessee  to  cover,  and  was  intended  by  them  to  cover,  certain  lands  owned  by  Lessor. 

Since  the  execution,  delivery,  and  recording  of  the  Lease,  it  has  been  discovered  that  the  description  of 
lands  contained  in  the  Lease  does  not  adequately  describe  the  lands  Lessor  intended  to  lease  to  Lessee.  Lessor  and 
Lessee  desire  to  amend  and  correct  the  description  of  lands  contained  in  the  Lease  to  accurately  identify  the  lands  to 
be  covered  by  the  Lease. 

For  adequate  consideration,  and  the  further  consideration  of  the  obligations  and  agreements  contained  in 
the  Lease,  Lessor  acknowledges  and  agrees  that  the  Lease  shall  cover,  and  the  Lease  is  amended,  so  that  it  now 
covers  the  following  lands  in  the  county  and  state  named  above: 

Lot  14,  Block  15,  of  Fannin  Farm  Phase  5,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according 
to  the  plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  2716,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

Lessor  ratifies,  adopts,  and  confirms  the  Lease  and  extends  the  Lease  to  cover  the  lands  described  in  this 
Amendment  as  if  the  description  of  lands  set  out  above  had  been  originally  included  in  the  Lease.  Lessor  grants, 
leases,  and  lets  to  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  the  lands  described  in  this  Amendment  for  the  purposes  and 
upon  the  terms,  conditions,  and  provisions  contained  in  the  Lease. 

This  Amendment  shall  be  binding  for  all  purposes  on  Lessor  and  Lessor's  successors,  heirs  and  assigns. 

This  Amendment  is  signed  by  Lessor  and  Lessee  as  of  the  date  of  the  acknowledgment  of  their  signatures 
below,  but  is  efflSjve  fosfSU  pur^ses-apof  the  Effective  Date  stated  above. 

LESSOR:  //JJ^-/f.  /s-~U-\<-$  LESSOR: 

(Individually  and  bTalfcapacitib  f#  the  aboVc  dekcribttl  Land)  {Individually  and  in  ^Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land) 

Name:      /Melvin  M.  Van  Rie   Name:  Crystal  K.  Van  Rie  


Title:   Lessor   Title:  Lessor 


Cheaha  Land  Services,  LLC 


AMENDMENT  TO  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


§ 
§ 
§ 


KNOW  ALL  MEN  BY  THESE  PRESENTS: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  ™  t^mT 


Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  1<V  \  Oca,^^L-  and  known  to  me  to  be  the 

person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  for  the  purpose  and 
consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this 


My  commission  expires: 


iblic,  State  of  Texas 


Notary  s  printed  name 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  /A4rm~r 

Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  Or ^sV^  X/f>ys,$Sv€-  and  known  to  me  to  be  the 
person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  for  the  purpose  and 
consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this        day  of  /fy**,  2008. 


My  commission  expires: 


JOHN  WESLEY  WHEY 
Notary  Public.  State  of  Te*» 
M/  Commhslco  Exp#es 
January  20.2010 


Sry  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  printed  name  f 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  Or~TW  rt^^. 


Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  Jason  James.  Manager.  Chcaha  Land  Services.  LLC,  known 
to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he  executed  the  same  and  for  the 
purpose  and  consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this day  of  PflowxJl  ,  2008. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


My  commission  expire 


KRYSTLE  LEE  MCCURSTION 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
May  04,  2011 


Notary's  printed  name 


