Notice  of  Confidentiality  Rights:  If  you  are  a  natural  person,  you  may  remove  or  strike  any  of  the 
following  information  from  this  instrument  before  it  is  filed  for  record  in  the  public  records:  your 
social  security  number  or  your  driver's  license  number. 


Producers  88  (4/76)  Revised  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 
(NO  SURFACE  USE) 

THIS        AGREEMENT        made        this  \2 .        day        of  f\^J  ,        2008,  between 

 ^COHSrT"       DO,  a    <.}fl$U  fC&^^\'J 

Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  ffC^  Ec^ft^  PA\l^  Tkl  .  *M-A^5^S\\D  IX  ~fbOGl>, 
and  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC,  2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870,  LB-9,  Dallas,  •TX  75201,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1.  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  No/100  Dollars  ($10.00),  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  of  the  agreements  of  Lessee 

herein  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for  and 
producing  oil,  gas  and  all  other  minerals,  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and  geophysical  surveys  by  seismograph,  core  test,  gravity  and  magnetic 
methods,  injecting  gas,  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  subsurface  strata,  laying  pipe  lines,  building  roads,  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines  and 
other  structures  thereon  and  on,  over  and  across  lands  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  and  contiguous  thereto,  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat, 
transport  and  own  said  products,  and  housing  its  employees,  the  following  described  land  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  to-wit: 

0.246  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Blk  9  Lot  58  ,  out  of  the  Willowstone  Estates  Addition,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Mansfield,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  being  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  in  that  certain  plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A  Slide  7^jf  t  of  the  Plat  Records  of 
Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above,  whether  the  same 
be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 

2.  This  is  a  paid  up  lease  and  subject  to  the  other  provisions  herein  contained,  this  lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called 
"primary  term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said  land  or  land  with  which  said  land  is  pooled  hereunder. 

3.  As  royalty,  lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  lessor,  in  the  pipelines  to  which  lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
twenty  five  percent  (25%)  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  lessee,  to  pay  lessor  the 
average  posted  market  price  of  such  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks, 
lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipeline  oil;  (b)  to  pay  lessor  for 
gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  lessee  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  amount  realized  by  lessee,  computed  at  the 
mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the 
amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  gasoline  or  other  products  extracted  therefrom  and  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale 
of  residue  gas  after  deducting  the  amount  used  for  plant  fuel  and/or  compression;  (c)  To  pay  lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by 
lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall 
be  one  dollar  ($1.00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with 
which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless, 
continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in 
force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being 
produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and 
ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to 
lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such 
time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  lessee,  as 
royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1.00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each 
anniversary  of  Ihe  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of 
this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would 
be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in  the  Bank  at  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories, 
regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be, 
entitled  to  receive  same,  lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified, 
either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  lessee  may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may 
be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on 
or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of 
this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as 
to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee 
deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  SO  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%; 
provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  'oil  well'  and  'gas  well'  shall 
have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  'oil  well'  means  a  well  with 
an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  'gas  well'  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per 
barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  'horizontal  completion'  means  an  oil  or  gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the 
unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's 
royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the 
total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust 
Lessees  pooling  rights  hereunder.  Any  unit  so  formed  may  be  amended,  increased  in  size,  decreased  in  size,  or  changed  in  configuration,  at  the  election  of 
Lessee,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  and  Lessee  may  vacate  and  dissolve  any  unit  by  instrument  in  writing  filed  for  record  in  said  county  at  any  time 
when  there  is  no  unitized  substance  being  produced  from  such  unit.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the 
unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the 
absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written 
declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

5.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  said  land,  or  from  the  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee 
is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  60  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term, 
the  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more 
than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from 
said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  after  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said 
land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for 
drilling  or  reworking  within  60  days  after  the  cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  such  operations  are  prosecuted 
with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other 
mineral  is  produced  from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof,  may  be 
dissolved  by  Lessee  by  instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises  are  situated  at  any  time  after  the 
completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  the  cessation  of  production  on  said  unit.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  330  feet  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  welt  or  wells  as  a 


reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  place  of  record  a 
release  or  releases  covering  any  portion  or  portions  of  the  above  described  premises  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  and  be 
relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  acreage  surrendered. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  said  land, 
including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing.  When  required  by  Lessor,  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipe  lines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall  be 
drilled  within  two  hundred  (200)  feet  of  any  residence  or  barn  now  on  said  land  without  Lessor's  consent. 

7.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and 
assigns;  but  no  change  of  division  in  ownership  of  the  land,  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the 
rights  of  Lessee;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by 
registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments  evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of 
assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  lease  or  of  a  portion 
thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder,  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

8.  The  breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  arising  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or 
reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  No  obligation  reasonably  to  develop  the  leased  premises 
shall  arise  during  the  primary  term.  Should  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities  be  discovered  on  said  premises,  then  after  the  expiration  of  the 
primary  term,  Lessee  shall  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator,  but  in  discharging  this  obligation  it  shall  in  no  event  be 
required  to  drill  more  than  one  well  per  forty  (40)  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one  well  per 
640  acres  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  1 0%  of  640  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying 
quantities.  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  lease, 
Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  days  after  receipt  of 
such  notice  in  which  to  commence  the  compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  instrument. 

9.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  said  land  and  agrees  (hat  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien 
upon  said  land,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  in  event  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties 
accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  it  is  agreed  that  if  this 
lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether 
Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties,  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers 
less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee 
simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  Should 
any  one  or  more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessors  fail  to  execute  this  lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  parties  executing  the 
same. 

1 0.  Should  Lessee  l>e  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations 
thereon  or  from  producing  any  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  therefrom  by  reason  of  scarcity  of  or  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use  equipment  or  material,  or  by 
operation  of  force  majeure,  and  Federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented,  Lessee's  obligation 
to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  lease  shall  be  extended 
while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  the  lease 
premises;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

11.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual 
subsurface  easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the 
surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from 
which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

12.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  does  not  by  virtue  of  this  lease  acquire  any  rights  whatsoever  to  conduct  any 
operations  on  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises  without  first  obtaining  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor,  however,  Lessee  may  recover  oil,  gas  and 
associated  hydrocarbons  from  the  lease  premises  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling,  pooling,  unitization  or  any  other  method  provided  in  this  lease. 

See  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto  and  by  reference  made  a  part  hereof. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


dayof  W~ 


2008 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated     ftA^y    f  I  ^         2008,  between  Dale  Property 

Services,  LLC,  as  Lessee,  and       Al^oy^-V"     j^q  , 

as  Lessor;  WITNESSETH: 

13.  In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  terms  of  this  Exhibit  "A"  and  the  terms  of  the  printed  form  to  which  it  is  attached  (the 
"Form"),  the  terms  of  this  Exhibit  "A"  shall  control. 

14.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an 
additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term 
the  same  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease 

15.  Minerals  Covered.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  Lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas" 
means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore. 

16.  Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  Form  to  the  contrary,  Lessor's  royalty  or  payments  to  Lessor  for  Lessor's  royalty  shall 
never  bear  or  be  charged  with,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  part  of  the  costs  or  expenses  of  production,  operation,  separation,  gathering, 
dehydration,  compression,  trucking,  processing,  treatment,  storage  or  marketing  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  nor  any  part  of  the  costs  of  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facilities  or  equipment  used 
in  the  handling  of  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  However,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its 
proportionate  part  of  all  reasonable  and  necessary  costs  which  enhance  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  obtain  a 
better  price  that  are  actually  incurred  by  Lessee  in  an  arms  length  transaction  and  paid  to  an  unrelated  third-party .  Lessee  will  distribute  to 
Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well  not  later  than  120  days  after  completion  of  the  well,  in  the  case  of  oil,  or  after  the 
date  of  first  production,  in  the  case  of  a  gas  well.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  to  Lessor  royalty  on  production  by  the  last  day  of  the 
second  month  after  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  interest  at  the  maximum  lawful  rate  from 
due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay. 

17.  Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  Form  to  the  contrary,  following  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,or  the  cessation  of 
drilling  activities,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  depths  100  feet  below  the  base  of  the  Barnett  Shale  Formation. 

18.  Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  Form  to  the  contrary,  all  of  Paragraph  11  in  the  above  referenced  lease  shall  be 
removed  in  its  entirety  and  not  made  a  part  of  said  lease. 

19.  While  there  is  a  well  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  capable  of  producing  gas  in  paying  quantities  but  the 
production  thereof  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended  for  lack  of  a  market,  available  pipeline,  or  because  of  government  restrictions  or,  if  it 
is  economically  inadvisable  for  both  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  to  sell  gas  for  a  time  as  evidenced  by  a  written  agreement  signed  by  both 
parties,  then,  and  in  any  such  event,  Lessee  may  pay  as  shut-in  royalty  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  on  which  (1)  production 
from  any  such  well  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended;  or  (2)  this  Lease  is  no  longer  maintained  by  compliance  with  one  of  the  other 
preservation  provisions  hereof,  whichever  is  the  later  date,  and  thereafter  at  annual  intervals  the  sum  of  One  Dollar  ($1 .00)  per  net  mineral 
acre  per  proration  unit  per  well.  If  such  payment  is  made  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  but  shall 
continue  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  from  the  date  of  making  such  shut-in  payment  (subject  to  the  exceptions  set  out  hereafter)  and 
it  will  be  considered  that  gas  is  being  produced  from  the  leased  premises  in  paying  quantities  within  the  meaning  of  each  pertinent 
provision  of  this  Lease.  Provided,  however,  in  no  event  shall  shut-in  well  payments  maintain  this  Lease  in  force  for  a  cumulative  period  of 
three  (3)  years  past  the  primary  term  of  this  lease. 

20.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee 
acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title 
to  the  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then 
the  royalties  payable  hereunder  shall  be  reduced  proportionately.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  on 
the  Land,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  Lessee  will  have  the  option  to  apply  the  royalties  accruing  to  Lessor  toward  payment  of  it. 

21.  Indemnity.  Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify  and  hold  harmless  Lessor,  and  Lessor's  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns 
against  ail  expenses,  claims,  demands,  liabilities,  and  causes  of  action  of  any  nature  for  injury  to  or  death  of  persons  and  loss  or  damage  to 
property,  including,  without  limitation,  reasonable  attorney  fees,  expert  fees,  and  court  costs,  caused  by  Lessee's  operations  on  the  land  or 
Lessee's  marketing  of  production  from  the  land  or  any  violation  of  any  environmental  requirements  by  Lessee.  As  used  in  this  paragraph, 
the  term  "Lessee"  includes  Lessee,  its  agents,  employees,  servants,  contractors,  and  any  other  person  acting  under  its  direction  and  control, 
and  its  independent  contractors. 

22.  If  Lessee  elects  to  pool  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  must  pool  all  of  the  leased  premises. 

23.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  units  pooled  for  gas  shall  not  exceed  320  acres. 


Sign  for  Identification 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$24.00 


H  i  ll  I  III  III!  II  III  II  I  III  S3!  II 

D2081 89097 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MC 


