Electronically  Recorded 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Official  Public  Records 


2008  May  21  10:43  AM 
Fee:  $  36.00 


D2081 89402 


Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


6  Pages 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


Suzanne  Henderson 


KNOW  BY  ALL  MEN  THESE  PRESENTS: 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC 
RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


This  NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  ( "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  25,h  day  of  March,  2008  (the 
"Effective  Date")  by  and  between  Thuy  T.  Nguyen,  ("Lessor,"  whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  3609  Snead 
Court  Arlington,  Texas  76014  and  Paloma  Barnett,  LLC,  ("Lessee,"  whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  1021 
Main  Street,  Ste.  2600,  Houston,  TX  77002.  Lessor  and  Lessee  are  sometimes  collectively  referred  to  in  this  Lease  as 
the  "Parties." 

1 .  Leased  Premises.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  by  Lessee,  the  royalties  herein  provided, 
and  the  covenants,  agreements  and  obligations  of  Lessee  herein  contained,  and  subject  to  the  conditions  and 
limitations  hereinafter  set  forth,  hereby  leases  and  lets,  exclusively  unto  Lessee,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling 
for,  producing,  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  the  land  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  described  as  follows,  to  wit: 


0.1925  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  also  being  known  as  Block  3,  Lot  23,  of  Fairway  Meadows,  Section  3,  an  addition  to  the 
City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  out  of  the  Robert  R.  Ramey  Survey,  Abstract  Number  1343,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  and  amendments  thereof,  including  streets,  easements,  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 


(and  referred  to  herein  as  "Said  Land,"  the  "Property,"  or  the  "Leased  Premises")-  The  Leased  Premises  shall  include 
all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at 
Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate 
description  of  the  leased  premises.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the 
number  of  gross  acres  specified  above  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from 
the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are 
produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise 
maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Option  Clause.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be 
exercised  prior  to  the  date  which  this  Lease  or  any  portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and 
provisions,  of  extending  this  Lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage  of  the 
Leased  Premises.  The  only  action  required  by  Lessee  to  exercise  this  option  being  payment  to  Lessor  of  an  additional 
consideration  of  the  sum  equal  to  the  original  cash  bonus  paid  to  Lessor  as  a  bonus  for  signing  the  Lease,  which 
payment  shall  cover  the  entire  two  (2)  year  extended  primary  term.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided, 
it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  Lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years.  If 
this  Lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a  portion  of  the  acreage  then  covered  thereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by 
a  recordable  instrument. 


4.  Minerals  Covered.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and 
other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other 
like  minerals.  Lessee  shall  have  no  rights  to  water  in,  on,  or  under  lands  of  Lessor. 


5.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall 
be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price 
then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of 
similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the 
royalty  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the 
point  of  sale,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing 
wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing 
in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase 
contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases 
hereunder. 

Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing  plant 
in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  highest  of 
the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substance 
produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based  upon 
the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products. 


NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of 
production  or  any  post-production  costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering  dehydration,  compression  separation 
delivery  transportation,  manufacture,  processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of 
any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  non-affiliates.  It  is  the  intent  of 
the  parties  that  the  provisions  of  this  section  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as 
surplusage  under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank.  939  S.W.2d  1 1  ft  (Tpy  1997). 

^S^/^in,/ifffilia5!l  m?anS  (i)  a  corPoration'  J°int  venttjre.  Partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten 
percent  (1 0/o)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee 
more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation  joint 
venture  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well  not  later  than 
one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  end  of  the  month  following  first  delivery  of  gas  from  the  well  into  the  pipeline 
Thereafter  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  by  the  last  day  of  each  month  its  royalty  on 
production  for  which  Lessee  received  payment  in  the  preceding  month,  but  in  no  event  shall  royalty  be  paid  more  than 
sixty  (60)  days  after  the  last  day  of  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  interest  at 
the  maximum  lawful  rate  from  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay.  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of 
royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  interest  due  thereon  unless  Lessor 
expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor. 

The  receipt  by  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production  for 
distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds 
but  Lessee,  or  Lessee  s  operator,  will  at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding 
he  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  Said  Land  or  pipeline  company 
transporting  products  from  Said  Land,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor 
all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest  if  not  timely  paid.  Lessor  retains  the  right  to  terminate  the  Lease  for 
failure  to  pay  royalties,  after  a  period  of  written  notice  and  opportunity  to  cure  which  shall  not  exceed  sixty  (60)  days. 

Gas  produced  from  Said  Land  or  pooled  unit  that  Said  Land  is  included  therewith  shall  not  be  commingled  with  qas 
produced  from  any  other  lands  prior  to  the  point  where  the  gas  produced  from  this  Lease  passes  through  the  meter 
which  will  measure  the  gas  for  calculating  the  payment  made  by  the  purchaser  of  gas  production 


6.  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  but 
such  we  I  or  weHs  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
neverthe  ess  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has 
been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90) 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee  then  Lessee  shall 
pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90- 
day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being 
maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of 
such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed 
that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment 
of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  one  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

7.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the  address 
in  section  1 ,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  by  check  or  electronic  transfer 


8-  Continuous  Drilling  Obhqations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (a  "dry 
hole  )  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities) 
permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  9  or 
the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional 
well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  one 
hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days 
after  such  cessabon  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not 
otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations 
reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or 
more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  consecutive  days 
and  if  any  such  operations  results  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  as  long  thereafter 
as  here  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a 
well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  Leased 
Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar 
circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  Leased  Premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on 
the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  Leased  Premises  from  uncompensated  drainaqe 
by  any  well  or  we  s  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or 
any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

9^  Pooling  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  interests 
therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the 
commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or 
operate  the  Leased  Premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or 


Page  2  of  6 


interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  Leased  Premises  covered  by  this  Lease,  shall  be  included  in  any  unit 
created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  often  percent  (10%)  and 
for  a  gas  well  or  a  honzontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty  (640)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%).  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the 
meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed 
oil  well  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well 
with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under 
normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment  and  "horizontal 
completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  of  first  production 
Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling  which  may 
be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's  acreage  shall  be 
included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased  premises  shall  be 
treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on 
which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  surface  acres  covered 
by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit. 

Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the 
recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both  either 
before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or 
permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination 
made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded 
from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall 
thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent 
cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating 
the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

10.  Assiqnment  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred 
in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend 
to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns;  provided  however  if  Lesee  is  to 
assign  any  part  of  this  Lease  to  any  third  party  other  than  Chesapeake  Energy  or  a  subsidiary  or  affiliate  thereof  it  shall 
give  written  notice  and  a  copy  of  any  assignment  to  the  Lessor  within  sixty  (60)  dats  of  assignment.  No  change  in 
Lessors  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder  and  no 
change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or 
certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  reasonable 
satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of 
division  order.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  no  assignment  by  Lesee  will  receive  Lesee 
of  any  liability,  before  or  after  the  assignment,  and  Assignee  is  jointly  and  severally  liable  with  Lessee  for  all  Lease 
obligation. 

11  Release  and  Vertical  Puqh  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  a  file  of 
record  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this 
Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with 
respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered 
hereby,  Lessees  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the 
net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  its  successors  or 
assigns  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recorded  release  within  sixty  (60)  days  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  of  this  Lease 
which  have  terminated  under  the  terms  of  this  Lease.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  upon  the 
expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein 
whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  either  (1)  the 
deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic 
equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased 
premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is  the  deepest;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in 
operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all 
depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  operations. 

12.  No  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface 
of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to 
geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  the  Leased  Premises  or 
any  other  residential  structure  located  within  the  same  subdivision  or  neighborhood  addition  as  the  Leased  Premises 
Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drillinq 
commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the  Lease  Lessee  has 
no  right  to ■  dn  I  horizontally,  vertically,  or  at  an  angle  under  the  Leased  Premises  at  any  depth  that  is  less  than  three 
hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface.  Lessee  has  no  right  to  pipe,  transmit,  or  transport  gas  under  the  Leased 
Premises  at  any  depth  that  is  less  than  three  hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable 
efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood  streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  Leased  Premises  any  lands 
pooled  therewith  or  otherwise. 


k'  n^TT'  ^°'Se  S  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells 
snail  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the 
oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites 
and  the  fact  Lessees  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non- 
electric-powered equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by 
installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

14/  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied 
snail  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,' 


Page  3  of  6 


l?r^dif9nf);lr0nm^^re9Uuti0nS'  Setback  rec«uirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells  and  the 
CfriSi-9  ?hand*h°th.er  subs,launces  To  the  extent  any  such  law!,  rules,  «SS^^ort«  are 

air;fs.v,w«.  sr.  st-s err* a 

any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production xrth££S^  a?e  si  ES^^E^ 
or  interrupted.  Lessee  shall  take  all  reasonable  actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  o^ ^  nSZ^'£^ 

than°on  b  yif°SSlble-  J"  °°  6Vent  Sha"  thiS  LeaSe  be  W*"**  by  an  event  of  forS  maeure  £ra  period  of  mora 
Lrrn°H  ( I  C™F*?e. (*ear  or        <3)  V^rs  of  cumulative  time.   No  obligation  of  Lessee  to      money  ttat  has 

^■^^ES the  Force  Majeure  event  occurred  under  this  ,ease  wi" be  ^<z^i^ 

contSinT  Le$$ee  Sha"  US6  the  highest  degree  of  M»  and  a"  reasonable  safeguards  to  prevent 

contamination  or  pollution  of  any  environmental  medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters  groundwater  iTrr»nteLnd 

nn^h  SubshUfIace  strata*  ambient  *  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under Said  LanTTtaSS 
lands  oooTedW Z^^^T^  "  contaminant-  Lessee  ^all  not  bring  or  permit  to  remain  on  Said  Lands  or 
h««rri^  My  aSb6St0S  conta,nin9  materials,  explosives,  toxic  materials,  or  substances  regulated  as 

^E^E^?  hazardouts1materials'  substances  (as  the  term  "Hazardous  Substance"  is  dS  in  thl 

Comprehensrve  Env.ronmental  Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  (CERCLA),  42  U.S.  C  Sections  9601  et 
2  ? l™bf nce*  under  a^  federal-  stat*  *  local  law  or  regulation  ("Hazardous  Materials^  ex™pt  Sari 
products  commonly  used  m  connection  with  oil  and  gas  exploration  and  development  operations  and  stored  in  the 
™n "i**™^  LESSEE'S  VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  SHALL  CONSTITUTE  A 
^™£L  BREACH  AND  DEFAULT  HEREUNDER  AND  LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNITY  HOLD T  HARMLESS  AND 
ch^LLESS0R-  'TS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  TENANTS,  GUESTS,  INVITEES  AlslD  THEIR  F^^^^^VE 
marh  mcc^inpA  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  CLAIMS,  DAMAGES  ^EXSMENTS  PENALTIES^ 
^IAB^7JES'  AND  COSTS  (l NCLUD'NG  RE  REASONABLE  ATTORNEYS  FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS)  CAUSED  BY 

0  ARISING  OUT  OF  (1)  A  VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  OF (2) THE TpRESENCE  RELEASE 
OR  DISPOSAL  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  SAID E  LANDS  OR TlaND9  pAnf In 
^^Tu^SS!  LESSEE>S  0CCUpANCY  OR  CONTROL  SF  S^i  LESSEE  S^CL^^RaS^ 
PRESENr^ ^OR  ^  P^LS?L0URA.GR0UND  WATER  CONTAMINATION  AND  DAMAGE  CAUSED  Iy^ THE 

1  ?Sf  £f^°R  RELEASE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  IN,  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  SAID  LANDS  OR 
LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  LESSEE'S  OCCUPANCY  OF  SAME  IN  CONFORMANCE  WITH  THF 

NOT^L^ITFn"'TrP^  I  arm  n^crlo  ™'S  ,N^MN  IF.  CATION  AN  D  AS  SU  M^PTI  ON  S  H^L  >S^P  LY  B  UT^S 

NOT  LIMITED  TO,  LIABILITY  FOR  RESPONSE  ACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN  PURSUANT  TO  CERCLA  OR  amy 
^^^^^tk^  °R  REQULAT.ON.  LESSEE  SHALL  IMMEDL^^Y  GIVE^  L^SSO^WWTTEN 
ooIiCc!,£F  ANY  BREACH  0R  SUSPECTED  BREACH  OF  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  UPON  LEARNING  OF  THE 
™E,1,^  ^RSTMATER'ALS'  °R  UP0N  RECEIVING  A  NOTICE  PERTONInI TO  HAZARDOUS 
^JcC^L=n!?r^MAY  AFFECT  SAID  LANDS  0R  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH.  THE  OBLIGATIONS  OF 
THfs  lIasI  LL  SURV'VE  THE  EXPIRAT,0N  OR  EARL|ER  TERMINATION  FOR  ANY  REASON,  OF 

l%P^^Tt!rMSEl^^  70  INDEMN|FY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S 
MADMmlc^7^8,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS 
ham Ar'pAxS  2£if IS?  ACTION  °F  ANY  MATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AN^LOSS 
25,«TM™fTI°  PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES  AND 
P£UJLIS0STS'  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  SAID  LAND  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH I  OR 
LESSEES  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL 
a^RoEMcENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE MTS 
^R^^k°^^E^^  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS 
DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS. 


17.  Notions.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  in  Section  1 ,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be 
made  by  registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

18.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in 
the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute 
inc  ud.ng  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance 
of  this  Lease  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient 
mvest.gat.on  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

19.  Curinq  Defaults.  Should  Lessee  at  any  time  fail  to  comply  with  its  obligations  hereunder  regarding  construction 
maintenance,  or  repair,  Lessor  shall  have  the  right,  after  giving  30  days  prior  written  notice  to  Lessee  to  do  or  have 
done  whatever  is  necessary  to  fulfill  the  obligations  to  its  satisfaction,  and  Lessee  shall  be  liable  to  Lessor  for  the 
reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  thus  incurred  by  Lessor,  to  be  paid  within  30  days  after  Lessor  shall  have 
furnished  Lessee  an  itemized  written  statement  of  the  expenses. 

20.  Venue  and  Leqal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable.  At  any  time  that  any  obligation  of  the  Lessee  to  make  a  payment  shall 
not  be  complied  with  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  it  is  agreed  and  understood  that  Lessee  will  pay  to 

o?Te°?Tat  the  1i9h!?  'awful  rate  a"0wed  t0  be  char9ed  t0  Lessee  bV  Lessor  under  the  then  existing 
Statutes  of  the  State  of  Texas.  In  addition,  in  the  event  of  the  breach  of  any  provision  of  the  Lease,  Lessee  shall  pay  to 
Lessor  all  costs  and  expenses  reasonably  incurred  including  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  costs  of  court  incurred  by 


Page  4  of  6 


eLnDdPdSi0or^H  k  iS  a9r!ed  that  n!!ther  the  Lease  nor  of  its  terms  or  Prwtotons  shall  be  altered  amended 
aeltnne  if ^  ^  any.dlv,s,on  order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  Lessor's  successor  agents  or 

Mi  LeSfHe  Sha"  rTre  the  exeCUtion  of  a  division  order  for  PTOt  of  royalty  payable  Sn^^'lSeft^ 
the  only  form  of  d-vision  order  permitted  for  Lessee's  use  shall  be  such  form  promulgated  by  the >  State  o tIms  and 

SIS?  'n  91 -402!?  °f  the  T6XaS  Natural  Resources  Code  as  amended  ^  t  me  to  tom%V^r^ 

l^tT^T*  °r  ?3tl0nt  °f  ^  l6aSe'  °r  °f  any  term  °r  provision  of  this  lease-  sha"  be  maL  only  by  an 
nrn^H  k  V  denom,!I!atm9  ,ts  PurP0^  and  effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the 
proposed  change  or  mod.ficat.on  hereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against  whom  any  such  amendment  alteration 

SftS  c^MoT^*  enf°rCed  ^  «  '  a»er^ 

I L Jpt0^^ cAhqn 6ment  Feft*-  Notwithstandin9  a"ything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  neither  Lessee  nor 
Lessees  assigns  shall  ever  require  a  subordination,  partial  release  of  lien,  release  of  lien  consent  or  othe 

ISHUT^  fr°m  any  '!nder  °f  LeSSOr  that  has  a  lien  on  said  land  as  a  condition  to  LessTn^^  aa^ 
fX2£  Z  °r  fub8f'uent  r°yalty  Payment-  However,  Lessor  will  cooperate  with  any  reasonab efforfof 
Lessee  to  obtain  same  from  Lessor's  lender  on  behalf  of  Lessor. 

^^nf3n^?K  T,hi$  Le?U  is0entered  int0  in  the  state  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced  in 
herei^^^^^prmii^ffV3  ?  ^  ®5*of  TexaS  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  prions 
n  f     edJ°  bS  inVa"duby  3  COurt  0f  comPeten*  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 

S^01^^  here!T  and  lhat  the  parties  sha"  attemPl  in  9°od  to  renegotiate  that  prov s on 
S£?£Sn*  fh  .alld  t0  effe?Uate  the  Purp°se  0f  and  t0  conform  t0  lhe  ,aw  re9ardin9  such  provision.  The  section 
!!L  xPh  9  L!ase  are  f0r  conven,ence  on|y  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
jfhth  'Jo ifi^Jf  may  e^Ut6d  'n  °ne  °r  more  ^teW^  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
fo^ninl  J  S "f tUtS  7*  aPKd  h!  Sam!  ,nstrument  Si(19ular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine 
te  Leas^  '  re    t0  'nC,Ude  thS  °ther($)  35  the  COnteXt  requires  10  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 

nIHm2.h1Sf0f  Lef0r  "ndelthis  Lease  shatl  be  in  addition  to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to 
through  91  405^    U  *       Includin9-  without  "imitation,  V.T.C.A.  Natural  Resources  Code  §§  91.401 

25.  Release  and  Discharge.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  this  addendum,  the  amount  of  the 
royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  all  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee  (herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms")  with 
respect  to  this  Lease,  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the  group  known  as  the  Southeast 
Ariington  Property  Owners  aka  "SEAPO",  which  consists  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers.  In  consideration  of  the 
efforts  spent  by  the  Southeast  Ariington  Property  Owners,  the  Committee  Members,  and  other  volunteers  in  negotiating 
and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on  behalf  of  Lessor,  Lessor,  on  behalf  of  themselves  and  each  of  their  respective 
agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors,  parents,  subsidiaries,  affiliated  corporations,  or  other  affiliated  entities 
successors  partners,  principals,  assigns,  attorneys,  servants,  agents,  employees,  heirs,  consultants  and  other 
epresentatives,  does  hereby  release  and  forever  discharge  the  Southeast  Arlington  Property  Owners  the  Committee 
Members,  and  any  volunteers  representing  SEAPO  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses  causes  of 
action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract  tort 
statutory  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown,  past,  present  or  future  which 
Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  individual  Committee  Members,  volunteers  or  the  Southeast 
Arlington  Property  Owners  which  relate  to,  arise  from,  or  are  in  any  manner  connected  to  (i)  the  Negotiated  Terms  (ii) 
he  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iii),  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms 
(iv)  any  activity  act  or  omission  in  any  way  related  to  the  Negotiated  Terms  or  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms 
or  (v)  any  and  all  representations  made  prior,  during,  and  subsequent  to  Lessor's  execution  of  this  Lease  and 


A  MEMORANDUM  OF  LEASE  and  not  the  actual  Lease  instrument  with  its  addendum,  if  any,  shall  be  filed  of  record  in 
i  arrant  county,  Texas,  in  order  to  give  constructive  notice  of  Lessee's  leasehold  interest  in  the  property. 


Page  5  of  6 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution 
shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 

LESSEE:  Paloma  Barnett,  LLC 


By: 


Printed  Nan4  grp*  f-~rJ, 
Title:  A^-^i/  4&r± 


LESSOR 


state  of  S 


COUNTY  OF 


{INDIVIDUAL  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT) 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  meon  the  ^day  of 


.,  200^,  by 


-         ■'  / 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  Narri^  Printed:        „,   '    ci.v-  c'tmi. 


Notary's  Commission  Expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  (CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT) 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  35        dav  of  fW)Ha{  200$  bv 

P<N*^fV*M^  the  frttantfcy        Nor  (Office^  of  fa^Th  I 

on  behalf  of  said  corporation.  »     


LLC 


JIM  ZIMMERMANN 

w'-":-s  **fic Stateof  Texas 
i"V.  Commission  Expires 
March  25, 2012 


Notary  Pufcrfid  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  Name  Printed: 
Notary's  Commission  Expires:      ^  ^ 


Page  6  of  6 


