NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 

KNOW  BY  ALL  MEN  THESE  PRESENTS: 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

Villages  of  Fairfield  Neighborhood  Association  (VFNA),  North  Cravens  Community  Group  (NCCG)  & 

Harold  Patterson  Community  Association 

NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

This  NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  ANIVGAS  LEASE  ("LEASE")  is  made  as  of  the  \  ^  day  of  Aft 1   ^    ,  2008  (the 

"Effective    Date")    by    and    between     Jik/T)  <j    j  h>p~fj    O  /)  J   u/^  f .     }Z4  Av;  *->  &  

<  /"\  I  P  jf  ^       ("Lessor,"  whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is 

o»r     L*,oL.\\r^y     VC,      ll<-hA^U^f    r£     ^o\-U  ,  and 

Dale  Property  Services,  LLC,  ("Lessee,"  whether-One  or  more),  whose  address  is  2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870,  LB-9,  Dallas,  TX 
75201 ,  Lessor  and  Lessee  are  sometimes  collectively  referred  to  in  this  Lease  as  the  "Parties." 

1.  Leased  Premises.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  by  Lessee,  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  the 
covenants,  agreements  and  obligations  of  Lessee  herein  contained,  and  subject  to  the  conditions  and  limitations  hereinafter  set  forth, 
hereby  leases  and  lets,  exclusively  unto  Lessee,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  the 
land  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  described  in  Exhibit  A  attached  hereto  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference  (and  referred  to  herein  as 
"Said  Land,"  the  "Property,"  or  the  "Leased  Premises").  The  Leased  Premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements, 
highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments 
reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount 
of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  above  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date 
hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  hereof. 

3.  Option  Clause.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be  exercised 
prior  to  the  date  which  this  Lease  or  any  portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  provisions,  of  extending  this 
Lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage  of  the  Leased  Premises.  The  only  action  required 
by  Lessee  to  exercise  this  option  being  payment  to  Lessor  of  an  additional  consideration  of  the  sum  equal  to  the  original  cash  bonus 
paid  to  Lessor  as  a  bonus  for  signing  the  Lease  (prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term),  which  payment  shall  cover  the  entire  two 
(2)  year  extended  primary  term.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though 
this  Lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years.  If  this  Lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a  portion  of  the  acreage  then 
covered  thereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by  a  recordable  instrument. 

4.  Minerals  Covered.  For  purpose  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  other  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and 
their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil  includes  all  condensate,  distillate,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as 
hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  Lessee  shall  have  no  rights  to  water 
in,  on,  or  under  lands  of  Lessor. 

5.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a) 
for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such 
production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil/gas  purchaser's  transportation 
facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing 
in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b) 
for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the 
proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right 
to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there 
is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to 
comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its 
purchases  hereunder. 

Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee, 
or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  produced. 
Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substance  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties 
shall  be  paid  based  upon  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  produced.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  in  no  event 
shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production  costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering 
dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  transportation,  manufacture,  processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction, 
operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the 
contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor  under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of 
producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and 


Page  1  of 7 


other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form;  however,  reasonable  costs  incurred  on  an 
unaffiliated  interstate  or  intrastate  gas  pipeline  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to 
receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such 
enhancements  and  such  costs  are  shared  on  a  pro-rata  basis  with  Lessee  based  upon  each  party's  share  of  production.  In  no  event  shall 
Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than,  the  price  received  by  Lessee.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  less  than 
Lessee  in  sales  to  non-affiliates.  It  is  in  the  intent  of  the  parties  mat  the  provisions  of  this  section  are  to  be  fully  effective  and 
enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as  "surplusage"  under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank.  939 

5.  W.2d  118  (Tex  1997). 

As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of 
the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest;  or 
(ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or 
controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well  not  later  than  one  hundred 
twenty  (120)  days  after  the  end  of  the  month  following  first  delivery  of  gas  from  the  well  into  the  pipeline.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must 
disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  by  the  last  day  of  each  month  its  royalty  on  production  for  which  Lessee  received  payment 
in  the  preceding  month,  but  in  no  event  shall  royalty  be  paid  more  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  last  day  of  the  month  of  production.  If 
not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  interest  at  the  maximum  lawful  rate  from  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee 
agrees  to  pay.  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  interest 
due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor. 

The  receipt  by  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to 
Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee,  or  Lessee's 
operator,  will  at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other 
business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  Said  Land  or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  Said  Land, 
Lessee  will  remain  liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest  if  not 
timely  paid.  Lessor  retains  the  right  to  terminate  the  Lease  for  failure  to  pay  royalties,  after  a  period  of  written  notice  and  opportunity 
to  cure  which  shall  not  exceed  sixty  (60)  days. 

Gas  produced  from  Said  Land  or  pooled  unit  that  Said  Land  is  included  therewith  shall  not  be  commingled  with  gas  produced  from 
any  other  lands  prior  to  the  point  where  the  gas  produced  from  this  Lease  passes  through  the  meter  which  will  measure  the  gas  for 
calculating  the  payment  made  by  the  purchaser  of  gas  production. 

6.  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying 
quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced  shall  be  deemed  incapable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom 
is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  a  quarterly  shut-in  royalty  of  One  Hundred  Dollars  ($100.00)  per  acre  to  Lessor 
then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  ninety  (90)  day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end 
of  said  ninety  (90)  day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided, 
however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee.  Notwithstanding 
anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not 
have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  one  single  period  of  up  to  two  consecutive 
years. 

7.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the  address  in  Exhibit  A 
attached  hereto,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice  of  from 
time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  by  check  or  electronic  transfer. 

8.  Continuous  Drilling  Obligations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  En  paying  quantities  (a  "dry  hole")  on  the 
Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any 
cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  9  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then 
in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  production 
for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  Leased 
Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  completion  of  production  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  ninety  (90)  days 
after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being 
maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  production  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore 
production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation 
of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  results  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 
After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  Leased 
Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to 
develop  the  Leased  Premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on;  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  Leased  Premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

9.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  interests  therein  with  any  other 
lands  or  interests,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production, 
whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  Leased  Premises,  whether  or  not 
similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  Leased  Premises 
covered  by  this  Lease,  shall  be  included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein. 

The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  often  percent  (10%)  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty 


Page  2  of  7 


(640)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%).  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas 
well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well 
with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal 
producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment  and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a 
well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its 
pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the 
unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in 
a  well,  all  of  Lessor's  acreage  shall  be  included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the 
Leased  Premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  mineral  acres  covered 
by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  mineral  acres  included  in  the  unit. 

Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not 
the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of 
production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision, 
Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  Leased 
Premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are 
payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon 
permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the 
date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

10.  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in 
part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs, 
devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  to  assign  any  part  of  this  Lease,  it  shall 
give  written  notice  and  a  copy  of  any  assignment  to  the  Lessor  within  sixty  (60)  days  of  assignment  with  the  exception  of  assignments 
being  made  to  Lessee,  its  officers,  directors,  and/or  affiliates.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of 
ownership  to  the  reasonable  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's 
usual  form  of  division  order.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder,  no  assignment  by  Lessee  will  relieve  Lessee  of  any  liability, 
before  or  after  the  assignment,  and  Assignee  is  jointly  and  severally  liable  with  Lessee  for  all  Lease  obligations. 

11.  Release  and  Vertical  Push  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  a  file  of  record  written 
release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones 
thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee 
releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties 
shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this 
Lease,  Lessee  its  successors  or  assigns  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recorded  release  within  sixty  (60)  days  as  to  such  portion  or  portions 
of  this  Lease  which  have  terminated  under  the  terms  of  this  Lease.  Subject  to  the  terms  of  paragraph  2  of  this  Lease,  upon  the 
expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of 
production  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below 
either  (1)  the  deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic 
equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  on 
lands  pooled  therewith,,  whichever  is  the  deepest  (as  determined  by  well  logs);  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in 
production  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long 
as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  production. 

12.  No  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over, 
place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the 
Leased  Premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  any  structure  on  the  Leased  Premises.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  Leased 
Premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands. 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the  Lease,  Lessee  has  no  right  to  drill  horizontally,  vertically,  or  at  an  angle  under  the 
Leased  Premises  at  any  depth  that  is  less  than  three  hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface.  Lessee  has  no  right  to  transmit  or  transport 
gas  under  the  surface  of  the  Property  at  any  depth  that  is  less  than  three  hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface  of  the  Property.  If 
Lessee  can  acquire  consent  from  at  least  70%  of  those  property  owners  within  six  hundred  (600)  feet  of  said  operations,  then  it  shall 
be  deemed  that  100%  of  those  within  six  hundred  (600)  feet  of  said  operations  have  consented  to  allow  Lessee  to  conduct  operation 
closer  than  six  hundred  (600)  feet  of  any  structure  on  the  Leased  premises.  In  no  event  shall  Lessee  conduct  operations  within  three 
hundred  (300)  feet  of  any  structure  on  Leased  premises.  The  terms  and  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall  be  controlling  over  any 
contrary  provisions  located  elsewhere  in  this  Lease. 

13.  Traffic.  Lessee  understands  the  residential  streets  within  the  area  surrounding  the  Leased  Premises  boundaries  are  neither 
designed  nor  built  to  carry  commercial  traffic.  Lessee  agrees  to  instruct  its  employees  and  contractors  to  avoid  using  said  streets, 
except  for  contractors  doing  business  with  Lessors.  None  of  Lessee's  employees  or  contractors  shall  be  permitted  to  use  the 
residential  streets  for  parking  or  access  to  any  drill  site. 

14.  Noise,  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to 
a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level 
and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being 
conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall 
take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

15.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject 
to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  environmental 
regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances 
covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease 


Page  3  of 7 


shall  control.  The  breach  of  this  paragraph  will  be  considered  a  material  breach  of  the  Lease.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or 
other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits, 
equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage, 
rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchases  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease 
shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of 
this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted.  Lessee  shall  take  all  reasonable 
actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  of  Force  Majeure  as  soon  as  reasonably  possible.  In  no  even  shall  this  Lease  be  perpetuated  by  an 
event  of  Force  Majeure  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  (1)  consecutive  year  or  two  (2)  years  of  cumulative  time.  No  obligation  of 
Lessee  to  pay  money  that  has  accrued  and  was  due  before  the  Force  Majeure  event  occurred  under  this  Lease  will  be  excused  or 
delayed  by  reason  of  such  Force  Majeure  event.  Lessee  will  notify  in  writing  Lessor,  at  the  address  identified  in  Section  1,  unless 
notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing,  when  Force  Majeure  goes,  into  effect.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

16.  Environmental  Compliance.  Lessee  shall  use  the  highest  degree  of  care  and  all  reasonable  safeguards  to  prevent  contamination  or 
pollution  of  any  environmental  medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater,  sediments,  and  surface  or  subsurface  strata, 
ambient  air  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under,  Said  Lands  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  by  any  waste,  pollutant,  or 
contaminant.  Lessee  shall  not  bring  or  permit  to  remain  on  Said  Lands  or  lands  pooled  therewith  any  asbestos  containing  materials, 
explosives,  toxic  materials,  or  substances  regulated  as  hazardous  wastes,  hazardous  materials,  hazardous  substances  (as  the  term 
"Hazardous  Substance"  is  defined  in  the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  (CERCLA), 

42  U.S.  C.  Sections  9601,  et  seq.)  or  toxic  substances  under  any  federal,  state  or  local  law  or  regulation  ("Hazardous  Material"), 
except  ordinary  products  commonly  used  in  connection  with  oil  and  gas  exploration  and  development  operations  and  stored  in  the 
usual  manner  and  quantities.  LESSEE'S  VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  SHALL  CONSTITUTE  A 
MATERIAL  BREACH  AND  DEFAULT  HEREUNDER  AND  LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY,  HOLD  HARMLESS  AND 
DEFEND  LESSOR,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  TENANTS,  GUESTS,  INVITEES  AND  THEIR  RESPECTIVE  SUCCESSORS 
AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  CLAIMS,  DAMAGES,  JUDGEMENTS,  PENALTIES,  LIABILITIES,  AND  COSTS 
(INCLUDING  REASONABLE  ATTORNEYS  FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS)  CAUSED  BY  OR  ARISING  OUT  OF  (1)  A 
VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  OR  (2)  THE  PRESENCE,  RELEASE  OR  DISPOSAL  OF  ANY 
HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  SAID  LANDS  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  LESSEE'S 
OCCUPANCY  OR  CONTRO  OF  SAME.  LESSEE  SHALL  CLEAN  UP,  REMOVE,  REMEDY,  AND  REPAIR  ANY  SOIL  OR 
GROUND  WATER  CONTAMINATION  AND  DAMAGE  CAUSED  BY  THE  PRESENCE  OR  RELEASE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS  IN,  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  SAID  LANDS  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  LESSEE'S 
OCCUPANCY  OF  SAME  IN  CONFORMANCE  WITH  THE  REQUIRMENTS  OF  APPLICABLE  LAW.  THIS 
INDEMNIFICATION  AND  ASSUMPTION  SHALL  APPLY,  BUT  IS  NOT  LIMITED  TO,  LIABILITY  FOR  RESPONSE 
ACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN  PURSUANT  TO  CERCLA  OR  ANY  OTHER  ENVIRONMENTAL  LAW  OR  REGULATION. 
LESSEE  SHALL  IMMEDIATELY  GIVE  LESSOR  WRITTEN  NOTICE  OF  ANY  BREACH  OR  SUSPECTED  BREACH  OF  THIS 
PARAGRAPH,  UPON  LEARNING  OF  THE  PRESENCE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS,  OR  UPON  RECEIVING  A 
NOTICE  PERTAINING  TO  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  WHICH  MAY  AFFECT  SAID  LANDS  OR  LANDS  POOLED 
THEREWITH.  THE  OBLIGATIONS  OF  LESSEE  HEREUNDER  SHALL  SURVIVE  THE  EXPIRATION  OR  EARLIER 
TERMINATION  FOR  ANY  REASON,  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

17.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY,  DEFEND  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S 
REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND 
CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT 
COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  SAID  LAND  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  OR  LESSEE'S 
MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS 
BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES, 
SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS 
INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS. 

1 8.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the  address  identified  in 
Section  1,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by  registered  or  certified 
mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

19.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  Leased 
Premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited 
to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it 
has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Leased 
Premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

20.  Curing  Defaults.  Should  Lessee  at  any  time  fail  to  comply  with  its  obligations  hereunder  regarding  construction,  maintenance,  or 
repair,  Lessor  shall  have  the  right,  after  giving  thirty  (30)  days  prior  written  notice  to  Lessee,  to  do  or  have  done  whatever  is  necessary 
to  fulfill  the  obligations  to  its  satisfaction,  and  Lessee  shall  be  liable  to  Lessor  for  the  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  thus  incurred 
by  Lessor,  to  be  paid  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessor  shall  have  furnished  Lessee  an  itemized  written  statement  of  the  expenses. 

21.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where  all  obligations 
under  this  Lease  are  performable.  At  any  time  that  any  obligation  of  the  Lessee  to  make  a  payment  shall  not  be  complied  with  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  it  is  agreed  and  understood  that  Lessee  will  pay  to  Lessor  interest  thereon  at  the  highest  lawful 
rate  allowed  to  be  charged  to  Lessee  by  Lessor  under  the  then  existing  Statutes  of  the  State  of  Texas.  In  addition,  in  the  event  of  the 
breach  of  any  provision  of  the  Lease,  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  all  costs  and  expenses  reasonably  incurred  including  reasonable 
attorneys'  fees  and  expenses,  expert  fees  and  expenses,  and  costs  of  court  incurred  by  Lessor  for  the  enforcement  of  the  provisions  of 
this  Lease.  It  is  agreed  and  understood  that  time  is  of  the  essence  in  the  performing  of  each  responsibility  under  the  terms  of  this 
Lease. 

22.  Records.  During  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  and  for  as  long  as  oil  and  gas  is  produced  therefrom,  and  for  a  period  of  one  (1) 
year  thereafter  Lessee  shall  keep  complete  and  accurate  records  of  all  its  operations  relating  to  or  affecting  the  Leased  Premises,  and 


Page  4  of 7 


the  results  thereof,  including  but  not  limited  to:  all  geophysical,  geological,  geochemical  and  paleontological  data  (if  any),  and 
interpretations  or  analyses  thereof;  all  land  surveys,  title  opinions  and  title  curative  material;  all  drilling,  coring,  logging,  testing  and 
completion  records;  all  production  records  showing  the  total  gross  production,  the  quantities  saved,  sold  and  used,  the  disposition 
thereof,  and  the  sales  prices  or  values  thereof;  all  production  sales  contracts;  and  such  other  records  and  as  may  be  proper  for  the 
settlement  of  accounts  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  or  to  determine  the  respective  rights  and  obligations  of  Said  Parties  hereunder. 
Lessee  shall  make  all  of  such  records  and  data  available  to  Lessor  or  Lessor's  designee  for  examination  and  copying  in  Lessee's 
offices  at  all  reasonable  times,  as  well  as  all  other  records,  reports,  notes,  charts,  graphs,  maps,  contracts,  documents,  papers,  and  other 
material  in  the  possession  of  or  under  the  control  of  the  Lessee  and  pertaining  to  the  Leased  Premises. 

23.  Division  Orders.  It  is  agreed  that  neither  the  Lease  nor  any  of  its  terms  or  provisions  shall  be  altered,  amended,  extended,  or 
ratified  by  any  division  order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  Lessor's  successors,  agents,  or  assigns.  If  Lessee  shall  require  the 
execution  of  a  division  order  for  payment  of  royalty  payable  under  the  Lease,  then  such  form  of  division  order  permitted  for  Lessee's 
use  shall  be  such  form  promulgated  by  the  State  of  Texas  and  set  forth  in  Section  91.402(d)  of  the  Texas  Natural  Resources  Code  as 
amended  from  time  to  time.  Any  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  Lease,  or  of  any  term  or  provision  of  this 
Lease,  shall  be  made  only  by  an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or  provisions 
affected  and  the  proposed  change  or  modification  hereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against  whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration, 
extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced.  Any  purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so  drafted  shall 
be  of  no  force  or  effect. 

24.  Subordination  Agreement  Fees.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  neither  Lessee  nor  Lessee's  assigns 
shall  ever  require  a  subordination,  partial  release  of  lien,  release  of  lien,  consent  or  other  documentation  from  any  lender  or  tenant  of 
Lessor  that  has  a  lien  on  said  land  as  a  condition  to  Lessor  receiving  the  agreed  signing  bonus  or  any  subsequent  royalties  payment  if 
the  Land  is  not  used  as  a  drill  site  location  and/or  located  directly  above  the  actual  Wellbore.  However,  Lessor  will  cooperate  with  any 
reasonable  effort  of  Lessee  to  obtain  same  from  Lessor's  lender  on  behalf  of  Lessor. 

25.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced  in  accordance 
with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions  herein  be  determined  to  be 
invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the  enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and 
that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so  determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to 
conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section  titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by 
themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this  Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be 
deemed  an  original,  but  all  of  which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in 
the  masculine  feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

26.  Insurance.  Insurance.  Lessee,  at  its  own  expense,  shall  maintain  a  general  liability  insurance  policy  (covering  bodily  injury, 
property  damage,  and  covering  its  Indemnity  obligations  under  paragraphs  12  and  16  of  the  lease)  in  an  amount  of  at  least  three 
million  ($3,000,000.00)  dollars  combined  single  limit.  Lessee  shall  also,  at  its  own  expense,  carry  workers  compensation  insurance  as 
required  by  law. 

"The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  shall  be  in  addition  to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to  payment  of  royalty 
under  Texas  law,  including,  without  limitation,  V.T.C.A.  Natural  Resources  Code  91.401  through  91.405." 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding 
on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has 
been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 

Lessor: 

[Signature] 


[Individual  Name/Title]  By:_ 


Lessor: 


[Signature] 


[Individual  Name/Title]  By:. 


Page  5  of 7 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  /  /  S~~  J   ,  by 


state  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  ,  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


i 


Page  6  of  7 


EXHIBIT  A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  dated 
Y /  /  S~ /  ,    2008,    between   Dale   Property   Services,    LLC,   as   Lessee,  and 

jp  <5     £"<pr}     C  h  ci         *(e    }  fl  Ct  hc/'Hi     ^  ^  '/>  ?S  ,  as  Lessor; 

WITNESSETH: 


0.230  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Blk  12   Lot  28  Matlock  Manor  Addition,  an  addition  to  the 
City  of    Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume 
llllAl^PageJi  _,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Pjipp  7  of  7 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB -9 

DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$40.00 


D2081 89408 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MC 


