NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR 
RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE 
NUMBER. 


OIL.  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 
(NO  SURFACE  USE) 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  24th  day  of  April  ,  2008,  between 

 Max  J  and  Tamara  K  Curtis  ,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose 

address  is  537  Panay  Way  Drive  Fort  Worth  Texas  76 1 08  (home  address),  and  Woodcrest  Oil  and  Gas  1,  LLC, 

Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 


1 .  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  No/ 100— -Dollars  (S10.00),  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided, 
and  of  the  agreements  of  Lessee  herein  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the 
purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for  and  producing  oil,  gas  and  all  other 
minerals,  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and  geophysical  surveys  by  seismograph,  core  test,  gravity  and 
magnetic  methods,  injecting  gas.  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  subsurface  strata,  laying  pipe  lines,  over, 
under  and  across  lands  owned  or  claimed  by  lessor  adjacent  and  contiguous  thereto,  to  produce,  save,  take  care 
of,  treat,  transport  and  own  said  products,  and  housing  its  employees,  the  following  described  land  in  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  to-wit: 

See  attached  Exhibit  "A"  hereto  and  made  part  of  hereof  for  the  name  and  address  of  the  lessor  (whether  one  or 
more)  who  are  a  party  hereto 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land 
particularly  described  above,  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not 
included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 


2.         This  is  a  subsurface  lease  only  and  Lessee  waives  any  surface  usage  of  the  property. 


3.  This  is  a  paid  up  lease  and  subject  to  the  other  provisions  herein  contained,  this  lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of 
Three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called  "primary  term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is 
produced  from  said  land  or  land  with  which  said  land  is  pooled  hereunder. 

4.  As  royalty,  lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  lessor,  free  of  production  costs,  in  the 
pipelines  to  which  lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal  Twenty-Three  Percent  (23%)  part  of  all  oil  produced 
and  saved  by  lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  lessee,  to  pay  lessor  the  average  posted 
market  price  of  such  Twenty-Three  Percent  (23%)  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe 
line  or  storage  tanks,  lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  Twenty-Three  Percent  (23%)  of  the  cost  of  treating 
or  transporting  oil  or  gas  to  render  it  marketable  pipeline  oil  or  gas;  (b)  to  pay  lessor  for  gas  and  casinghead  gas 
produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  lessee  Twenty  Three  Percent  (23%)  of  the  amount  realized  by  lessee, 
computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or 
other  products  Twenty  Three  Percent  (23%)  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  gasoline  or  other  products 
extracted  therefrom  and  Twenty  Three  Percent  (23%)  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  residue  gas  after 
deducting  the  amount  used  for  plant  fuel  and/or  compression;  (c)  To  pay  lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and 
marketed  or  utilized  by  lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  lessee's 
election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  ten  dollars  ($  1 0.00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at 
the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands 
with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells 
are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said 
land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had 
occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals 
capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to 
install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and 
lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  lessee. 
If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  one 
hundred  and  eighty  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or 
before  the  expiration  of  said  one  hundred  and  eighty  day  period,  lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of 
lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  ten  dollars  ($10.00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby,  Lessee  shall 
make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day 
period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this 
paragraph.  If  at  any  time  that  lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be, 
entitled  to  receive  same,  lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  shut- 
in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with 
their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  lessee  may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft 
of  lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank 
provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  lessee's  right  to  release 
as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for 
payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by 
each. 

5.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein 
with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this 
lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to 


do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority 
exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not 
a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  SO  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%,  and  for  a  gas  well 
or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  320  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  provided  that 
a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing 
or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do 
so,  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by 
applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a 
well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1 00,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an 
initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  1 00,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under 
normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment:  and  the 
term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  or  gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross 
completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights 
hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the 
leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit 
production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage 
in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more 
instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessees  pooling  rights  hereunder.  Any  unit  so  formed  may  be  amended,  increased  in 
size,  decreased  in  size,  or  changed  in  configuration,  at  the  election  of  Lessee,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time, 
and  Lessee  may  vacate  and  dissolve  any  unit  by  instrument  in  writing  filed  for  record  in  said  county  at  any  time 
when  there  is  no  unitized  substance  being  produced  from  such  unit.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased 
premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on 
which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of 
record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not 
constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

6.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  said  land,  or  from  the 
land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have 
completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  60  days  prior  commencing  to  drill  or  preparing  to  drill  or  to  the  end  of  the 
primary  term,  the  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  is  commencing  for  drilling  or 
reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they 
result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced 
from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the 
terms  hereof,  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by  instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county 
in  which  the  leased  premises  are  situated  at  any  time  after  the  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  the  cessation  of 
production  on  said  unit.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  330  feet  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee 
agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar 
circumstances.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  place  of  record  a  release  or  releases 
covering  any  portion  or  portions  of  the  above  described  premises  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease  as  to  such 
portion  or  portions  and  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  acreage  surrendered. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  lease  to  remove  all  property  and 
fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing.  When  required  by 
lessor,  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipe  lines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall  be  drilled  within  six  hundred 
(600)  feet  of  any  residence  or  barn  now  on  said  land  without  Lessor's  consent. 

8.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend 
to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns;  but  no  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  land,  or  royalties,  however 
accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee;  and  no  change  or 
division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been 
furnished  by  registered  U.  S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded 
instrument  or  instruments  evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for 
breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  lease  or  of  a  portion  thereof 
who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder,  Lessee  may  withhold 
payment  thereof  unless  and  until  furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating 
an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

9.  Should  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities  be  discovered  on  said  premises,  then  after  the  expiration  of 
the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator,  but  in 
discharging  this  obligation  it  shall  in  no  event  be  required  to  drill  more  than  one  well  per  forty  (40)  acres  of  the 
area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one  well  per  320  acres  plus  an 
acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  1 0%  of  320  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  gas 
or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities.  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessor  considers  that 
operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  tease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in 
writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  thirty  (30) 
days  after  receipt  of  such  notice  in  which  to  comply  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  instrument. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  said  land  while  Lessor  is  the  owner  of  the  land.  Lessor 
hereby  represents  and  warrants  that  they  are  the  owner  of  the  minerals  and  are  authorized  to  enter  this 
agreement.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  it  is  agreed  that 
if  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 


entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest 
therein,  then  the  royalties,  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such 
full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to 
the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether  or  not 
owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided. 

11.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  lease,  from 
conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or  from  producing  any  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  therefrom 
by  reason  of  scarcity  of  or  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use  equipment  or  material,  or  by  operation  of  force  majeure, 
and  Federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages 
for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  lease  shall  be  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any 
such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  the  lease 
premises;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to 
the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

12.  Assignee  shall  indemnify  and  hold  Assignor  and  the  property  of  Assignor,  including  Assignor's  interest 
under  this  instrument,  free  and  harmless  from  all  claims,  liability,  loss,  damage,  or  expense  resulting  from 
Assignee's  performance  of  the  lease,  Assignee's  occupation  of  any  part  of  the  real  property  covered  by  the 
lease,  or  the  exploration  for,  or  extraction  by  Assignee  under  the  lease  of,  any  oil,  gas,  or  other  hydrocarbon 
substances. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  does  not  by  virtue  of  this  lease  acquire  any 
rights  whatsoever  to  conduct  any  operations  on  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises  without  first  obtaining  the  prior 
written  consent  of  Lessor,  however,  Lessee  may  recover  oil,  gas  and  associated  hydrocarbons  from  the  lease 
premises  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling,  pooling,  unitization  or  any  other  method  provided  in  this  lease. 

14.  It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  release  all  rights 
lying  below  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  perforation  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands 
with  which  the  leased  premises  has  been  polled  or  unitized, 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instruction  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


Signature: 
Printed  Na 


Signature:        iX^m^  fv  .  QaaA^tZ^ 


Printed  Name: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  the  ^1  day  of 


l.         This  instrumei 


 ,  2008,  by 

,  on  behalf  of  said 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  the 


<^f  day  oA^/i  i 


 2008,  by 

,  on  behalf  of  said 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


After  Recording  Return  To: 

Woodcrest  Oil  and  Gas  I,  LLC 
3 1 1 3  S.  University,  Suite  600 
Fort  Worth,  TX  76109 


EXHIBIT  "A" 

ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  BY  AND 
BETWEEN  MAX  J.  AND  TAMARA  K.  CURTIS.  AS  LESSOR,  AND  WOODCREST  OIL  AND  GAS  I, 
L.L.C.  AS  LESSEE. 


LEGAL  DESCRIPTION: 

0.16  ACRES  MORE  OR  LESS  OUT  OF  SAID  LAND  LOT  10,  BLOCK  7,  PHASE  I,  WESTPOINT,  AN 
ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF  FORT  WORTH,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS,  ACCORDING  TO  THE 
PLAT  THEREOF  RECORDED  IN  VOLUME  388-1 1 0,  PAGE  1 1  OF  THE  PLAT  RECORDS  OF 
TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS.  COMMONLY  KNOWN  AS  537  PANAY  WAY  DRIVE,  FORT 
WORTH,  TEXAS  76108 


ADDENDUM 

15.  Not  with  standing  anything  to  the  contrary,  royalties  will  be  delivered  to  Lessor  free  of  any  costs,  both 
production  and  post-production. 


WOODCREST  OIL  &  GAS  I  LLC 
3113  S  UNIVERSITY  #600 


FT  WORTH  TX  76109 

Submitter:  FINLEY  RESOURCES  INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$32.00 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


