CPI-018MPaid  Up 

TEXAS  REVISED  03/29/2007 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  -FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUM8£lti)K  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER.  ^  - 

NO  SURFACE  USE  |^  ^ 

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASED  £C 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  as  of  the  8  day  of      Mav  ..2008,  betwee/  .5??^   ^Hj-      3?  !~ 

KennethW.  Bradley  and  Shawna  Bradley  "'*<;:■  ^ 

as  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more)  whose  address  is:        3135  Keller  Haslet  Road.  Roanoke.  Tx  76262  /    ■;  "  

and  HILLWOOD  ENERGY.  L.P.  ,  as  Lessee  Whose  address  is 

13600  Heritage  Parkway.  Suite  200.  Fort  Worth.  Texas  76177  . 

All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  Grant  and  Description,  tn  consideration  of  an  adequate  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively 
to  Lessee  the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

Being  a  3,430  acre  tract  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  James  Matthews  Survey,  A-1021  being  the  same 
land  as  described  in  Special  Warranty  Deed  dated  Septmeber  6,  2006,  from  US  Bank  National  Association,  as 
Trustee,  on  behalf  of  the  Holders  of  the  Asset  Backed  Pass-Through  Certificates,  Series  NC  2005-HE4  to  Kenneth 
W.  Bradley  and  Shawna  Bradley,  husband  and  wife,  recorded  in  Document  Number  D207453939,  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

in  the  County  of    Tarrant      .  State  of      Texas      .containing  3.430       gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may 

hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and 
nonhydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith.  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as 
hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  land,  this  lease  and  the  term  "leased  premises"  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land,  or  any 
vacancies  or  excess  acreage,  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor,  or  which  Lessor  may  have  a  preferential  right  to  acquire,  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above- 
described  land,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more 
complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above 
specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term  of  Lease.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  without  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (31  years  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  (which  will  sometimes  hereinafter  be  referred  to  as  "leased  substances")  are  produced  from  the  leased  premises 
or  from  lands  cooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein. 
Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be  exercised  prior  to  the  date  on  which  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and 
provisions,  of  extending  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage  described  herein.  The  only  action  required  by  Lessee  to 
exercise  this  option  being  payment  to  Lessor,  or  to  Lessor's  credit  with  the  depository  bank  named  herein,  of  an  additional  per  acre  bonus  consideration  equal  to  the  same  per 
acre  bonus  consideration  originally  paid  for  this  lease,  which  payment  shall  cover  the  entire  two  (2)  year  extended  primary  term.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein 
provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years. 

3.  No  Rentals.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder,  and  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  the  entire 
primary  term  without  the  payment  of  rentals  and  without  regard  to  operations  or  production,  if  any. 

4.  Royalty  Payment.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil,  and  other  liquid 
hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  one-fifth  (1/5lhl  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead 
or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  taxes  and  the  costs 
incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  treating  or  otherwise  marketing  such  oil  or  other  liquid  hydrocarbons,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  sell  such 
production  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest 
field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity,  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the 
royalty  shall  be  one-fifth  (1/5"*)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other 
taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
sell  such  production  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then 
prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  Is  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest 
preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  after  the  primary  term  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee, 
such  well  or  w^lls  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well 
or  wells  are  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  an  aggregate  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such 

payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  .  Pav  direct  to  Lesson's)  at  address  provided  herein  Bank  at. 

 ,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  such  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the 

ownership  of  the  leased  premises,  and  payment  or  tender  to  the  depository,  or  to  Lessor  at  Lessor's  last  known  address,  will  be  deemed  properly  and  timely  made  if  deposited 
in  the  U.S.  mails  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  while  there  are  operations  or 
production,  as  the  case  may  be,  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount 
due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

5.  Operations,  if,  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term.  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action 
of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  further 
operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  at  the  time  of  the 
expiration  of,  or  after  the  primary  term,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force,  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  to  obtain 
or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive 
days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  producing  In  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well 
or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein.  It  is  the 
intent  hereof,  and  it  is  controllingly  so  provided,  that  should  this  lease  otherwise  terminate,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  the  governmental  spacing 
or  proration  unit  assigned  to  each  and  every  well  located  on  the  leased  premises,  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  which  is  then  capable  of  producing  leased  substances  for  so  long 
as  such  well  either  continues  to  be  capable  of  producing  leased  substances  or  other  provisions  of  (his  Paragraph  5  are  applicable. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  any  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any 
or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  It  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  (other  than  a  horizontal  completion)  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so  or  for  the  purpose 
of  obtaining  a  greater  allowable  rate  of  production  pursuant  to  any  applicable  law  or  regulation.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have 
the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  Is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of 
fess  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barref  and  "gas  well*  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  shall  mean  an  oil 
well  or  gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  one  hundred  feet  in  length.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights 
hereunder.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  or  the 
existence  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  leased  substances  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production, 
drilling  or  reworking  operations  or  a  well  capable  of  producing  leased  substances  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated 
shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  mineral  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  In  the  unit,  but 
only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee 
shall,  without  the  joinder  of  Lessor,  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  or  acreage  allowable  formula  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 


written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  relative  acreage  contributions  of  the  tracts  in  the  unit  are  changed  by  virtue  of 
such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  If  Lessee  deems  it  advisable  in  order  to 
promote  further  development  of  any  part  of  a  unit  area,  or  if  production  from  the  unit  has  ceased.  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  unit  and  the  effective  date  of  termination  shall  be  the  date  of  filing  unless  provided  otherwise  in  such  declaration.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a 
cross-conveyance  of  interests.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is 
intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  as  provided  above 
with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  6,  the  words  "separate  tract"  means  any  tracts  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or 
hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

7.  Proportionate  Reductions.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  for  any  well  on  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  Interest  in  the 
royalties  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  Ownership  Changes.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or 
zone,  and  the  rights  ant)  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in 
Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until 
60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee.  In 
the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in 
the  depository  designated  above,  tf  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such 
persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in 
part,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  payments  and  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations 
with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or 
any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to 
the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Release  of  Lease.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or 
any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest 
so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  less  than  all  of  the  interest  or  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-In  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in 
accordance  with  the  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Ancillary  Rights  /  No  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  contained  to  the  contrary,  it  is  understood  and  agreed  that  Lessee,  it  successors  or  assigns,  shall 
not  enter  upon  nor  use  the  teased  premises  for  conducting  any  surface  or  drilling  operations  hereunder.  Any  production  from  the  leased  premises  shall  be  by  way  of  pooling 
and/or  unitization  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  drilling  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands  and  bottomed  under  the  leased  premises.  Any  direction  drilling  must 
penetrate  the  Land  sufficiently  velow  the  surface  as  to  not  interfere  with  the  present  or  future  use  of  the  surface  of  the  Land  for  commercial  or  residential  use  and  in  no  event 
may  the  direction  drilling  penetrate  the  Land  less  than  200  feet  beJow  the  surface.  A  direction  well  drilled  under  this  provision  shall  be  considered  to  be  located  on  the  land. 
Lessee  may  conduct  seismic  surveys  using  the  surface  of  the  land,  but  shall  pay  Lessor  for  any  damages  to  Lessor's  property  and  improvements  caused  by  the  survey, 
including  the  laying  of  pipelines.  Lessee  will  give  Lessor  at  least  ten  days  prior  notice  in  writing  before  conducting  seismic  operation  on  the  land,  including  the  laying  of 
pipeline. 

11.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  regulation  of  the  price  or  transportation  of  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain 
necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion, 
insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or 
by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  during  the  continuance  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  Lessee  shall  have  90  days 
after  the  removal  of  such  prevention  or  delay  within  which  to  commence  or  resume  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of 
any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  Breach  or  Default.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  until  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated 
and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a 
reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so.  Nothing  in  this  instrument  or  in  the  relationship  created  hereby 
shall  be  construed  to  establish  a  fiduciary  relationship,  a  relationship  of  trust  or  confidence  or  a  principal  -  agent  relationship  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  for  any  purpose. 

13.  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge 
any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the 
party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the 
event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

14.  Unitization.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  commit  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  to  one  or  more  unit  plans  or  agreements 
for  the  cooperative  development  or  operation  of  one  or  more  oil  and/or  gas  reservoirs  or  portions  thereof,  if  in  Lessee's  judgment  such  plan  or  agreement  will  prevent  waste 
and  protect  correlative  rights,  and  if  such  plan  or  agreement  is  approved  by  the  federal,  state  or  local  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction.  When  such  a  commitment  is 
made,  this  lease  shall  be  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  unit  plan  or  agreement,  including  any  formula  prescribed  therein  for  the  allocation  of  production,  and 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  such  documents  or  agreements  as  Lessee  may  reasonably  request  in  furthejance  of  such  commitment. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  writte^^rBoveT  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executes,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  noUbi«ie"ase  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 

county  o?~7ptrrfr*iT' 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
by  Kenneth  W.  Bradley  . 


(SEAL) 


JOHNIE  DANIEL 
Notary  Public,  Slate  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
February  26,  2012 


acknowledgment 


_  day  of 


Notary  Public,  State  of 


2008, 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 

county  of  larr&rdr 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
by  Shawna  Bradley   . 


(SEAL) 


&®$t\  JOHNIE  DANIEL 

■  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 

U>  MV  Commission  Expires 

^jsy  Februofy26,2(H2 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


£0*h       day  of  Mn^y 


Notary  Public,  State  of 


2008, 


CARLA  PETROLEUM 

ATTN:  GRANT  GREEN 

1320  $  UNIVERSITY* 405 

FT  WORTH  TX  76107 





Submitter:  GRANT  D  GREEN 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$20.00 


D208191988 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  GP 


