PAID  UP 
OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


THIS  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (die  "Lease"),  made  and  entered  into  this  15di  day  of  May,  2008, 
(die  "Lease")  by  and  between  Texas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers  Association,  Inc.  ("Lessor",  whether 
one  or  more),  whose  address  is  1301  West  Sevcndi  Street,  FortWordi,  Texas  76102  and  XTO  Energy  Inc. 
("Lessee"),  whose  address  is  810  Houston  Street,  FortWordi,  TX  76102-6298. 

1.  Grant  of  Interest/Description.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid,  the  receipt  and 
sufficiency  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  of  die  royalties  herein  provided,  and  of  die  agreements  ot 
Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases,  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  die  sole  purpose  of 
exploring  for,  drilling,  operating,  and  producing  oil,  gas  and  all  odier  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  ol 
laying  pipelines,  temporarily  storing  oil,  building  tanks  (but  not  lank  farms) ,  power  stations,  telephone  lines, 
roads  and  structures  thereon  necessary  to  produce,  save,  care  for,  treat  and  transport  die  oil,  gas  and  all  odier 
liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  from  die  land  leased  hereunder,  the  following  described  land 
situated  in  Tarrant  County,  Slate  of  Texas,  (sometimes  referred  to  hereinafter  as  die  "leased  premises")  to  wit: 

See  Exhibit  "A"  Attached. 


This  Lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  (he  land 
particularly  described  above,  whctiicr  die  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although 
not  included  within  die  boundaries  of  die  land  particularly  described  above.  If  any  additional  acreage  is 
included  in  tiiis  Lease  pursuant  to  die  foregoing  sentence,  dien  bonus  shall  be  calculated  and  paid  as  to  said 
additional  acreage  on  die  same  terms  as  it  is  calculated  and  paid  for  die  land  specifically  described  above. 
For  die  purposes  of  calculating  any  shut-in  royalty  payments  as  provided  herein,  the  leased  premises  shall  be 
deemed  to  contain  3.2212  acres,  regardless  of  whether  it  actually  contains  more  or  less. 

2.  Term.  This  is  a  paid  up  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  Lo  die  provisions  hereinafter  contained,  tiiis 
Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  four  (4)  ycar(s)  from  tiiis  date  (called  "Primary  Term")  f  and  so  long  thereafter  as 
oil,  gas,  or  any  odier  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons,  is  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  die  leased 
premises  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  or  tiiis  Lease  is  otiierwise  maintained  according  to  die  provisions 
herein. 

3.  Royalty. 

a.  Lessee  shall  have  a  duty  to  Lessor  of  utmost  good  faith  and  fair  dealing  to  market,  gatiier, 
transport,  dispose  of  and  sell  all  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  from  die 
leased  premises  (including  all  products  extract  ed  therefrom)  on  Lessor's  behalf  at  die  best  terms  available  for 
Lessor  and  Lessee.  As  royalties,  Lessee  agrees: 

i.  To  deliver  free  of  cost  to  Lessor  at  die  wells  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  at  die 
pipeline  to  which  (lie  wells  may  be  connected,  26%  (die  "Royalty  Percentage")  of  all  oil  and  odier  liquid 
hydrocarbons  produced  and  saved  from  die  leased  premises.  At  lessor's  option,  which  may  be  exercised 
from  time  to  time,  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  die  same  part  of  die  market  value  at  die  well  ol  oil  and  other 
liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and  sold  from  die  leased  premises. 

ii.  To  pay  to  Lessor: 

(1)  On  gas  produced  from  die  leased  premises  and  sold  b>^  ssee  or  used  off 
die  leased  premises  and  to  wliich  die  following  subparagraphs  (2)  and  (3)  do  not  apply,  die  Royalty 
Percentage  of  die  market  value  at  die  point  of  sale,  use,  or  odier  disposition,  less  die  deductions  audiorizcd 
in  Paragraph  3(c)  below. 

(2)  On  gas  produced  from  die  leased  premises  tiiat  is  processed  in  a 
processing  plant  in  winch  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  die  liighcr  of:  (a)  die 
Royalty  Percentage  of  die  market  value  of  die  gas  at  die  inlet  to  the  processing  plant,  or  (b)  die  Royalty 
Percentage  of  the  market  value  of  all  processed  liquids  saved  from  die  gas  at  die  plant  plus  die  Royalty 
Percentage  of  die  market  value  of  all  residue  gas  at  the  point  of  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition,  less  the 
deductions  audiorizcd  in  Paragraph  3(c)  below. 


-1- 


(3)  On  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  diat  is  processed  in  facilities 
other  than  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  the 
Royalty  Percentage  of  die  market  value  at  die  plant  of  all  processed  liquids  credited  to  die  account  of  Lessee 
and  attribulahle  to  the  gas  plus  the  Royalty  Percentage  of  the  market  value  of  all  residue  gas  at  die  point  of 
sale,  use,  or  other  disposition,  less  die  deductions  audiorized  in  Paragraph  3(c)  below, 

b.  The  market  value  of  gas  will  be  determined  at  die  specified  location  by  reference  to  die 
gross  heating  value  (measured  in  British  thermal  units)  and  quality  of  die  gas.  The  market  value  used  in  die 
calculation  of  oil  and  gas  royalty  will  never  be  less  dian  die  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  connection 
widi  the  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition  of  die  oil  or  gas  produced  or  sold.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  if 
Lessee  receives  from  a  purchaser  of  oil  or  gas  any  reimbursement  for  all  or  any  part  of  severance  or 
production  taxes  or  any  other  reimbursement  or  credit,  then  die  reimbursement  (or  credit)  will  be  added  to 
die  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee.  Royalty  will  be  payable  on  oil  and  gas  produced  from  die  leased 
premises  and  consumed  by  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  for  compression,  dehydration,  fuel  or  odier  use. 

c.  Except  as  odierwise  permitted  herein,  Lessor's  royalty  will  never  bear,  either  directly  or 
indirecdy,  any  part  of  die  costs  or  expenses  of  production,  separation,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression, 
transportation,  trucking,  processing,  treatment,  storage,  or  marketing  of  die  oil  or  gas  produced  from  die 
leased  premises  incurred  prior  to  die  sale  of  such  oil  and  gas  to  the  first  non-affiliate  of  Lessee,  or  any  part  of 
die  costs  of  construction,  operation,  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  odier  facilities  or  equipment  used  in  die 
handling  of  oil  or  gas  incurred  on  die  leased  premises.  It  is  die  intent  of  die  parties  diat  the  foregoing 
provisions  of  diis  paragraph  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as 
"surplusage"  under  die  principals  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  Nations  Bank,  939  S.W.2d  118  (Tex. 
1996).  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  share  of  all  severance  and  production  taxes.  Notwithstanding  anylliing 
to  die  contrary,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear  its  pro-rata  share  of  transportation  charges  (including  related  fuel 
charges)for  downstream  transportation,  provided  die  charges  are  made  by  a  company  which  is  not  Lessee 
nor  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  (including  non-affiliated  charges  passed  through  an  affiliate) ,  and  provided  tiiey  do 
not  exceed  an  amount  reasonably  commensurate  widi  charges  by  non-alliliated  entities  to  unrelated 
operators  in  die  area  of  die  leased  premises. 

d.  Lessor  shall  be  paid  die  Royalty  Percentage  of  all  payments  and  odier  benefits  made  under 
any  oil  or  gas  sales  contract  or  odier  arrangement,  including  take-or-pay  payments  and  payments  received  in 
setdement  of  disputes;  provided  diat  if  Lessor  receives  a  take-or-pay  payment  or  similar  payment  for  gas  that 
has  not  been  produced,  and  if  die  gas  purchaser  "makes  up"  such  gas  witiiin  die  period  called  for  in  die  gas 
contract  and  I  .essec  is  required  to  give  such  purchaser  a  credit  for  gas  previously  paid  for  but  not  taken,  dien 
Lessor  shall  not  be  entitled  to  royalty  on  such  "make  up"  gas.  Lessor  shall  be  a  diird-parly  beneficiary  of  any 
gas  purchase  contract  and/or  transportation  agreement  entered  into  between  Lessee  and  any  purchaser 
and/or  transporter  of  Lessor's  gas,  irrespective  of  any  provision  of  said  contracts  to  the  contrary,  and  such  gas 
purchase  contract  and/or  transportation  agreement  will  expressly  so  provide.  Furtiier,  Lessor  shall  be 
entided  to  die  Royalty  Percentage  of  die  value  of  any  benefits  obtained  by  or  granted  to  Lessee  from  any  gas 
purchaser  and/or  transporter  for  die  amendment,  modification,  extension,  alteration,  consolidation,  transfer, 
cancellation  or  setdement  of  any  gas  purchase  contract  and/or  transportation  agreement. 

e.  If  oil  or  gas  produced  from  die  leased  premises  is  sold  by  Lessee  pursuant  to  an  arms- 
length  contract  widi  a  purchaser  diat  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  and  die  contract  provides  for  net  proceeds 
to  be  paid  to  Lessee  diat  equal  or  exceed  the  market  value  of  die  gas  at  die  point  of  delivery  to  die  purchaser 
at  die  time  die  contract  is  made,  and  for  a  term  no  longer  than  that  which  is  usual  and  customary  in  die 
industry  at  the  time  the  contract  is  made,  ihen  die  market  value  of  die  oil  or  gas  sold  pursuant  to  die  contract 
shall  be  die  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  die  sale,  subject  to  die  provisions  of  paragraphs  3(b)  and  3(c) 
above. 

f.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or 
odier  entity  diat  owns  all  or  a  portion  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  all  or  a  portion  of  such  entity;  or  (ii) 
a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnersliip,  or  otiicr  entity  diat  has  common  ownership  widi  Lessee. 

g.  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  diat  are  past  due  will  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its 
right  to  receive  interest  due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor. 


-2- 


h.  The  receipt  by  lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production 
for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but 
Lessee  will  at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency, 
bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  the  leased  premises  or  pipeline 
comply  transporting  production  from  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for  payment  to  Lessor 
lor,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Ixssor  togetficr  with  interest  if  not  timely  paid, 

4.  Payment  of  Royalties.  Except  on  any  portion  of  ownership  where  there  is  a  reasonable  tide  dispute,  with 
respect  to  each  well  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  land  pooled  therewith,  initial  royalty  payments  for  oil 
and/ or  gas  shall  be  made  on  or  before  the  end  of  die  third  calendar  month  following  the  month  of  first  sales 
of  production.  Thereafter,  all  royalties  which  are  required  to  be  paid  hereunder  to  Lessor  shall  be  due  and 
payable  in  die  following  manner:  Royalty  on  oil  shall  be  due  and  payable  on  or  before  die  end  of  die  first 
calendar  month  following  the  month  in  which  production  is  sold,  and  royalty  on  gas  shall  be  due  and  payable 
on  or  before  die  end  of  die  second  calendar  mondi  following  die  month  in  which  production  is  sold.  Each 
royalty  payment  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  check  stub,  schedule,  summary  or  remittance  advice  identifying 
die  lease  name  and  showing  die  gross  amount  and  disposition  of  all  oil  and  gas  produced  and  die  market 
value  of  the  oil  and  gas.  A  summary  of  all  pricing  provisions  of  all  contracts  under  which  gas  is  sold  or 
processed  and  all  subsequent  agreements  and  amendments  to  such  contracts  as  well  as  the  books,  accounts 
and  all  other  records  pertaining  to  production,  transportation,  sale  and  marketing  of  oil  or  gas  from  the 
leased  premises  shall  at  any  time  during  normal  business  hours  and  days  be  subject  to  inspection  and 
examination  by  Lessor,  provided  Lessee  is  given  reasonable  advance  written  notice.  If  payments  to  be  made 
by  Lessee  to  Lessor  are  not  made  when  due  for  whatever  reason  except  on  any  portions  of  ownership  where 
there  arc  reasonable  tide  disputes,  the  unpaid  portion  shall  bear  interest  at  die  lower  of  {1)  die  prime  rate  as 
published  by  the  Wall  Street  Journal  in  its  "Money  Rates"  section  plus  2%,  or  (2)  die  highest  rate  allowed  by 
law.  If  Lessee  is  in  default  hereunder  and  this  matter  is  turned  over  to  an  attorney  for  collection,  or  is 
collected  by  suit,  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  all  reasonable  attorney  fees  incurred  by  Lessor.  Payments  may  be 
remitt  ed  to  lessor  annually  for  die  aggregate  of  up  to  twelve  months'  accumulation  of  proceeds  if  die  total 
amount  owed  is  $25.00  or  less. 

5.  Shut-in  Payments.  While  there  is  a  well  on  die  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewitii  capable  of 
producing  gas  in  paying  quantities  but  die  production  thereof  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended  for  lack  of  a 
market,  available  pipeline,  or  because  of  government  restrictions  or,  if  it  is  economically  inadvisable  for  both 
the  Lessor  and  Lessee  to  sell  gas  for  a  time  as  evidenced  by  a  written  agreement  signed  by  botii  parties,  dicn, 
and  in  any  such  event,  I  .essee  may  pay  as  shut-in  royalty  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days  after  die  date  on  which 
(1)  production  from  any  such  well  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended;  or  (2)  this  Lease  is  no  longer 
maintained  by  compliance  widi  one  of  die  other  preservation  provisions  hereof,  whichever  is  die  later  date, 
and  thereafter  at  annual  intervals  die  sum  of  Fifty  Dollars  ($50.00)  per  net  mineral  acre  covered  by  die  Lease. 
If  such  payment  is  made  in  accordance  with  die  terms  hereof,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  but  shall 
continue  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  from  die  date  of  making  such  shut-in  payment  (subject  to  the 
exceptions  set  out  hereafter)  and  it  will  be  considered  diat  gas  is  being  produced  from  die  leased  premises  in 
paying  quantities  widiin  die  meaning  of  each  pertinent  provision  of  diis  Lease.  Provided,  however,  in  no 
event  shall  shut-in  well  payments  maintain  diis  Lease  in  force  for  a  period  exceeding  four  (4)  years  in  die 
aggregate.  Any  shut-in  royally  payment  shall  not  be  a  credit  against  production  nor  be  credited  with  prior 
production  royalty.  In  die  event  diat  production  is  begun  or  resumed  during  die  year  following  die  payment 
of  a  shut-in  royalty  payment  and  is  subscquendy  shut-in,  during  such  year  die  second  annual  shut-in  payment 
shall  be  due  and  payable  on  die  anniversary  date  of  the  first  payment.  If  there  is  production  on  such  first 
anniversary  date  and  the  well  is  subsequentiy  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended,  (hen  die  second  shut-in 
payment  shall  be  made  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days  after  such  new  shut-in  date  or  die  Lease  shall  terminate. 
Should  such  shut-in  royalty  payments  not  be  made  in  a  timely  manner  as  provided  for  above,  then,  in  diat 
events  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  that  tiierc  is  no  production  of  gas  from  any  such  well  or  wells 
and,  unless  diis  Lease  is  being  maintained  by  any  other  preservation  provision  hereof,  diis  I^ease  shall 
terminate  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee's  receipt  of  Lessor's  written  notice  of  such  failure  to  pay,  unless  on  or 
before  die  expiration  of  such  diirty  (30)  day  period,  l-essee  remits  to  Lessor  die  shut-in  royally  payment, 

6.  Operations.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil,  gas  or  any  other  liquid  or  gaseous 
hydrocarbon  is  not  being  produced  from  the  leased  premises,  or  from  the  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee 
is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon 
within  60  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  the  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations 
on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more 
than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  any  other  liquid  or  gaseous 
hydrocarbon,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  any  other  liquid  or  gaseous  hydrocarbon  is  produced  in  paying 


-3- 


quantities  from  the  leased  premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary 
Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  oil,  gas  or  any  other  liquid  or  gaseous  hydrocarbon  is  produced  from  the  leased 
premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease 
shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  60  days  after  the 
cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  such  operations  are  prosecuted 
with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  any 
other  liquid  or  gaseous  hydrocarbon,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  any  other  liquid  or  gaseous 
hydrocarbon  is  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith. 
Upon  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  or  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal 
of  the  Primary  Term,  whichever  occurs  last,  Lessee  shall  release  all  rights  lying  one  hundred  feet  (100') 
below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation;  provided,  however,  if 
Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall 
remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  said 
operations.  Drilling  is  defined  in  this  paragraph  to  be  actual  drilling  with  rotary  drilling  tools  of  a  suitable 
size  necessary  to  reach  the  objective  depth. 

7.  Retained  Acreage  Clause.  [INTENTIONALLY  DELETED] 

8.  Cessation  of  Production.  [INTENTIONALLY  DELETED] 

9.  Limitation  to  Oil  and  Gas.  This  I^ase  is  intended  to  cover  only  oil,  gas  and  any  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  and  dicir  constituent  elements  produced  dirough  a  well  bore,  but  some  other  substances 
(including  helium  and  sulphur)  may  be  produced  necessarily  with  and  incidental  to  the  production  of  oil  or 
gas  from  the  leased  premises;  and,  in  such  event,  (his  Lease  shall  also  cover  all  such  other  substances  so 
produced  from  a  well  bore.  On  all  such  substances  so  produced  under  and  by  virtue  of  die  terms  of  tiiis 
Lease,  Lessor  shall  receive  die  Royalty  Percentage  of  all  such  substances  so  produced  and  saved,  same  to  be 
delivered  to  Lessor,  free  of  all  costs;  or,  at  Lessor's  election,  Lessor's  Royalty  Percentage  of  such  substances 
shall  be  sold  by  Lessee  with  Lessee's  portion  of  such  substances  and  at  die  same  profit  realized  by  Lessee  for 
its  portion  of  such  substances. 

1 0.  Gas  Contracts.  Lessee  agrees  diat  it  will  notcnter  into  any  contracts  for  die  sale  of  production  from  this 
Lease  which  shall  extend  more  than  three  (3)  years  from  die  effective  date  of  such  contract,  unless  such 
contract  has  adequate  provisions  for  redetermination  of  price  at  least  every  diree  (3)  years  to  assure  the 
production  from  tiiis  Lease  is  not  being  sold  for  less  than  the  dien  current  fair  market  value  of  die 
production  being  sold. 

11.  Separation  of  Liquids.  All  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall, 
before  die  same  is  sold  or  used  for  any  purpose  or  is  transported  from  the  leased  premises  or  pooled  unit,  be 
passed  through  a  mechanical  separator  system  situated  on  die  leased  premises  or  on  any  lands  pooled 
dicrewith,  designed  and  operated  to  effect  the  maximum  economical  recovery  of  liquid  hydrocarbons 
therefrom.  All  condensate,  distillate,  natural  gasoline,  kerosene,  and  all  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  and 
mixtures  diereof  produced  with  gas  from  die  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  separated  from 
sucli  shall  be  considered  oil  for  all  purposes  of  calculating  the  Royalty  Percentage. 

12.  Right  to  Take  Production  in  Kind.  Lessor  shall  always  have  the  right,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to 
time,  upon  two  (2)  mondis  written  notice  to  Lessee,  or  such  lesser  lime  to  which  Lessor  and  Ixssce  mutually 
agree,  to  take  Lessor's  share  of  oil,  gas  and  processed  liquids  in  kind.  Lessor  may  elect  to  take  lessor's  gas  in 
kind  at  die  well,  or  at  die  point,  of  delivery  where  Lessee  delivers  Lessee's  gas  to  any  diird  party.  If  gas  is 
processed,  Lessor  may  elect  to  take  Lessor's  share  of  the  residue  gas  attributable  to  production  from  the 
leased  premises,  at  die  same  point  of  delivery  where  Lessee  receives  its  share  of  residue  gas  or  lias  its  share  of 
residue  gas  delivered  to  a  diird  party.  Lessor  may  elect  to  have  its  royalty  share  of  processed  liquids  stored  in 
tanks  at  the  plant  or  delivered  into  pipelines  on  die  same  basis  as  Lessee's  share  of  liquids  is  stored  or 
delivered.  Lessor  shall  be  responsible  for  and  bear  all  costs  in  installing,  operating  or  maintaining  additional 
facilities  necessary  for  Lessor's  royalty  gas  and  processed  liquids  to  be  separately  metered,  accounted  for,  and 
delivered  to  a  third  parly,  but  Lessor  shall  not  be  charged  for  any  expense  in  die  production,  gathering, 
dehydration,  separation,  compression,  transportation,  treatment,  processing  or  storage  of  Lessor's  share  of 
gas  and  processed  liquids  along  with  Lessee's  share  of  gas  and  processed  liquids.  In  die  event  Lessor  elects  in 
writing  to  lake  and  separately  dispose  of  its  royalty  share  of  die  gas,  an  appropriate  gas  balancing  agreement 
shall  be  entered  into  between  the  parties.  It  is  expressly  agreed,  however,  diattiie  inclusion  of  an  option  to 
permit  Lessor  to  take  its  royalty  gas  in  kind  shall  not  modify  or  limit  Lessee's  duty  to  pay  royalties  as 
provided  herein  or  to  market  die  gas  as  provided  herein  and  at  such  times,  and  from  time  to  time,  as  Lessor 


docs  not  choose  to  lake  and  separately  dispose  of  its  royalty  gas.  Any  election  by  Lessor  to  take  its  royalty 
share  of  gas  or  processed  liquids  in-kind  made  hereunder  shall  he  for  a  period  of  six  (6)  months  or  such 
lesser  time  dial,  is  mutually  agreeable  to  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 3.  Pooling.  Subject  to  die  limitations  below,  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  die  right  to  pool  or  unitize  die  leased 
premises  with  any  oilier  lands,  lease,  leases,  mineral  estates  or  parts  thereof  for  die  production  of  oil,  gas  and 
constituents  thereof  covered  hereby.  Units  pooled  for  oil  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  an  acreage 
lolerancc  often  percent  (10%).  Units  pooled  for  gas  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty  (640)  acres  plus  an 
acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%).  Lessee  may  pool  or  combine  acreage  from  die  leased  premises  or 
any  portion  tiiereol  as  to  oil  and  any  one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata.  The  pooling 
in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  die  rights  of  Lessee  to  pool  tliis  Lease  or  portions  thereof  into 
odier  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record,  in  the  Real  Property  Records  where  the  leased  premises  are 
located,  an  instrument  describing  and  designating  the  pooled  acreage  and  leases  and  depth  limitations,  if 
any,  for  the  pooled  unit,  and  upon  recordation,  the  unit  shall  become  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto. 
Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling  option  before  or  after  commencing  operations  for  or 
completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  on  die  leased  premises.  Operations  and/or  production  on  any  part  of  die 
pooled  acreage  shall  be  treated  as  if  such  operations  were  upon  or  such  production  was  from  die  leased 
premises  whcdier  die  well  or  wells  be  located  on  die  leased  premises  or  not.  The  entire  acreage  pooled  in 
tiie  unit  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except  die  payment  of  royalties  on  production  from  die  pooled  unit, 
as  il  it  were  included  in  tiiis  Lease.  In  lieu  of  die  royalties  herein  provided,  Lessor  shall  receive  on 
production  from  a  unit  so  pooled  die  Royally  Percentage  multiplied  by  die  amount  of  Lessor's  acreage 
placed  in  die  unit  on  a  surface  acreage  basis  divided  by  die  total  surface  acreage  so  pooled  in  the  particular 
unit  involved.  Lessee  may  pool  die  leased  premises  only  if  all  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  die  pooled 
unit.  If  this  Lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as 
between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such 
separate  tracts  within  this  Lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  as  provided  above  with 
consequent  allocation  of  production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words  "separate 
tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts, 
from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

Once  this  Lease  is  included  within  a  pooled  unit,  the  pooled  unit  may  not  be  amended  or  modified  to 
exclude  the  Lease  (or  any  portion  of  it)  from  the  pooled  unit;  provided,  however,  that  Lessee  may 
amend  any  pooled  unit  from  time  to  time,  and  at  any  time,  in  order  to  correct  any  error  therein  or  to 
include  in  the  pooled  unit  any  newly  acquired  interests  within  the  pooled  unit  boundaries.  Unless  the 
prior  written  consent  of  Lessor  is  obtained,  Lessee  may  not  release  this  Lease  if  this  Lease  is  included 
within  a  pooled  unit  containing  a  well  producing  gas  in  paying  quantities. 

14.  Assignability.  The  rights  of  Lessor  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part  and  die  provisions 
hereof  shall  extend  to  Lessor's  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  However,  Lessor  is 
granting  rights  to  Lessee  that  Lessor  would  not  grant  to  otiiers.  Any  assignment  by  Lessee  shall  require  tiie 
prior  written  consent  of  Lessor,  which  consent  may  not  be  unreasonably  withheld  or  delayed.  lessor's 
consent  to  any  assignment  shall  not  constitute  consent  to  any  other  assignment.  Lessee  shall  furnish  Lessor  a 
copy  of  any  assignment  by  Lessee  made  pursuant  to  diis  section,  witii  die  recording  dala  reflected  diereon  (if 
recorded).  Assignment  of  diis  Lease  or  any  part  thereof  shall  not  relieve  Lessee,  its  assignees,  or  any 
subassignees  of  any  obligations  hereunder,  tiicretofore  accrued  or  to  accrue  in  die  future;  and  any  assignee  of 
Lessee  shall,  by  acceptance  of  such  assignment,  be  bound  by  all  terms  and  provisions  hereof.  The  term 
"assignment"  as  used  herein,  shall  include,  witiiout  limitation,  any  sublease,  farmout,  operating  agreement, 
pooling  agreement,  unitization  agreement,  or  any  odier  agreement  by  which  any  share  of  die  operating  rights 
granted  by  this  Lease  are  assigned  or  conveyed,  or  agreed  to  be  assigned  or  conveyed,  to  any  odier  party.  If 
lessee  fails  to  furnish  Lessor  a  copy  of  any  assignment  complying  with  die  requirements  of  this  section  witliin 
thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessor's  written  demand  therefore,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor  an  amount  equal  to  Five 
Dollars  ($5)  per  acre  per  day  for  each  acre  of  die  leased  premises  tiiat  has  been  assigned,  beginning  with  die 
30di  day  after  die  date  of  Lessor's  written  request  and  continuing  until  such  assignment  has  been  executed 
and  delivered  to  Lessor.  It  is  agreed  diat  actual  damages  to  Lessor  for  Lessee's  failure  to  deliver  such 
assignment  are  difficult  to  ascertain  vvidi  any . certainly,  and  diat  die  payments  herein  provided  are  a 
reasonable  estimate  of  such  damages  and  shall  be  considered  liquidated  damages  and  not  a  penalty. 

No  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  die  leased  premises,  rentals  or  royalties  however  accomplished  shall 
operate  to  enlarge  die  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  nor  shall  any  such  change  or  division  be 
binding  upon  Ixssee  for  any  purpose  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by 
registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  above  stated  address  vvidi  a  copy  of  die  recorded  instrument  or  inslrumenls 


evidencing  same.  If  Lessee  or  any  assignee  of  a  segregated  pari  or  parts  hereof  shall  fail  to  comply  witfi  any 
provision  of  the  lease,  such  default  shall  not  affect  this  Lease  insofar  as  it  covers  a  part  of  said  lands  upon 
which  Lessee  or  any  assignee  thereof  shall  comply  with  all  provisions  hereof. 

15.  Offset  Wells.  This  offset  obligation  shall  go  into  effect  one  (1)  year  after  the  effective  date  of  this 
Lease  and  shall  not  apply  to  any  well  drilled  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  this  Lease.  In  the  event  a  well  (an 
"offsetting  well")  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  is  completed  on  land  within  330  feet  from  any 
boundary  of  the  leased  premises  and  has  penetrated  and  been  perforated  and  fraced  in  the  Barnett  Shale, 
Lessee  must,  within  one-hundred  eighty  (180)  days  after  the  offsetting  well  continuously  produces  in 
paying  quantities  for  30  consecutive  or  more  days,  commence  operations  for  the  drilling  of  an  offset  well 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  must  diligently  pursue  those  operations  to  the  horizon 
in  which  the  offsetting  well  is  producing,  or  at  the  option  of  Lessee:  (i)  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  a 
release  in  recordable  form  of  the  forty  (40)  acres  nearest  to  the  offsetting  well  as  to  the  formation  in  which 
the  offsetting  well  is  producing;  or  (ii)  pay  Lessor  on  a  monthly  basis  a  compensatory  overriding  royalty 
interest  of  the  equivalent  of  a  two  percent  (2%)  overriding  royalty  interest  in  the  offsetting  well.  The 
compensatory  overriding  royalty  shall  terminate  upon  first  sales  of  production  by  Lessee  of  an  offset  well 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  that  prevents  drainage.  Lessee's  obligation  to  drill, 
release  or  pay  the  compensatory  overriding  royalty  interest  shall  not  apply  if  there  is  already  a  well  on  the 
leasehold  premises  acreage  nearest  the  offsetting  well  that  is  preventing  drainage  from  the  offsetting  well. 

16.  Title  Opinions.  Upon  Lessor's  written  request,  Lessee  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  copy  of  any  title 
opinions  covering  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  and  any  revisions  or  supplements  thereto  within  thirty 
(30)  days  of  receipt  of  same  by  Lessee,  and  Lessor  agrees  to  rely  on  such  opinions  at  its  sole  risk.  Upon 
Lessor's  written  request,  Lessee  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  any  curative  matters  served  in  connection  therewith. 

17.  Notifications  Required.  Lessee  shall  advise  Lessor  in  writing  of  each  well  to  be  drilled  upon  the  leased 
premises  or  on  land  pooled  therewith  on  or  before  seven  (7)  days  before  commencement  of  operations,  and 
shall  advise  Lessor  in  writing  die  date  of  completion  and/or  abandonment  of  each  well  drilled  on  the  leased 
premises  or  on  land  pooled  therewith  (such  notice  shall  include  furnishing  Lessor  a  copy  of  the  applicable 
completion  or  plugging  report  filed  with  any  governmental  or  regulatory'  agency)  witiiin  tiiirty  (30)  days  alter 
completion  or  abandonment.  As  to  any  well  drilled  under  the  provisions  of  this  Lease,  lessor,  at  its  sole  risk 
and  expense,  shall  have  access  to  such  well  and  upon  request  shall  be  furnished  with  copies  of  daily  drilling 
reports.  Such  reports  and  information  shall  be  furnished  within  seven  (7)  days  after  the  same  are  obtained  or 
compiled  by  Lessee.  In  addition,  Lessee  shall  upon  written  request  furnish  Lessor  within  tiiirty  (30)  days 
from  the  date  of  the  request  or  thirty  (30)  days  from  die  date  that  die  data  is  received  by  Lessee  plats  or  maps 
showing  the  location  of  the  well  on  tiiis  Lease  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

1 8.  Force  Majeure.  If  Lessee,  after  effort  made  in  good  faith,  is  prevented  from  complying  widi  any  express 
or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  or  from  producing  oil  or 
gas  by  reason  of  rebellion,  riots,  acts  of  God,  any  federal,  state  or  local  law,  or  any  other  valid  rule  or 
regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented  Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  witii  tire 
covenant  shall  be  suspended,  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith,  and  this 
Lease  shall  he  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  so  prevented;  provided,  however,  that  notliing 
contained  in  this  Lease  shall  be  construed  to  suspend  the  payment  of  royalty  (including  shut-in  royalties),  and 
further  provided  that  this  Lease  shall  in  no  event  be  extended  under  die  terms  of  this  paragraph  for  a  period 
longer  dian  two  (2)  years.  None  of  die  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall  ever  be  or  become  effective  and 
applicable  unless  Lessee  shall,  witiiin  a  reasonable  time  (not  to  exceed  sixty  (60)  days  in  any  event)  alter 
occurrence  of  the  claimed  event  above  referred  to,  notify  die  Lessor,  in  writing,  of  such  occurrence  with  full 
particulars  thereof. 

19.  Release  Required.  Within  tiiirty  (30)  days  alter  die  partial  termination  of  this  Lease  as  provided  under 
any  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  fully  executed,  recordable 
release  properly  describing  by  metes  and  bounds  the  lands  and  depths  released.  If  this  Lease  terminates  in 
its  entirety,  then  lessee  shall  deliver  a  complete,  fully  executed,  recordable  release  to  Lessor  witiiin  tiiirty 
(30)  days  of  termination.  If  such  release  complies  with  die  requirements  of  this  section,  Lessor  shall  record 
such  release.  If  Lessee  fails  to  deliver  a  release  complying  with  the  requirements  of  this  section  witiiin  tiiirty 
(30)  days  after  Lessor's  demand  therefore,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor  an  amount  equal  to  Five  Dollars 
($5.00)  per  acre  per  day  for  each  acre  of  die  leased  premises  that  should  have  been  released,  beginning  with 
the  30th  day  alter  die  date  of  Lessor's  request,  and  continuing  until  such  release  has  been  executed  ami 
delivered  to  Lessor.  It  is  agreed  that  actual  damages  to  Lessor  for  Lessee's  failure  to  deliver  such  release  are 


-6- 


difficult  to  ascertain  with  any  certainty,  and  that  the  payments  herein  provided  are  a  reasonable  estimate  of 
such  damages  and  shall  be  considered  liquidated  damages  and  not  a  penally. 


20.  Indemnification.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND 
THE  SURFACE  OWNER  OF  THE  LEASED  PREMISES  AND  THEIR  REPRESENTATIVES, 
SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CIAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES, 
AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE  INCLUDING  THOSE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR 
DEATH  OF  PERSONS,  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  TRESPASS  OR  NUISANCE,  AND 
INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES, 
AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY,  OR  RESULTING  FROM  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  THE 
LEASED  PREMISES  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH,  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF 
PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LEASED  PREMISES  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH,  OR  ANY 
VIOLATION  OF  THIS  AGREEMENT  OR  ANY  LAW,  RULE,  REGULATION  OR 
ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE 
TERMS  "LESSEE",  "LESSOR"  AND  "SURFACE  OWNER"  INCLUDES  THEIR  AGENTS, 
TENANTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  INVITEES,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER 
PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  THEIR  DIRECTION  OR  CONTROL,  AND  THEIR  INDEPENDENT 
CONTRACTORS.  LESSEE'S  OBLIGATIONS  UNDER  THIS  INDEMNITY  PARAGRAPH  20 
SHALL  SURVIVE  TERMINATION  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

21.  No  Warranties  of  Tide.  This  lease  is  made  without  warranties  of  any  kind,  eidier  express  or  implied. 
By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  diat  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and 
has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  die  tide  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessor  agrees  diat 
Lessee,  at  its  option  after  Lessee  has  given  Lessor  at  least  seven  (7)  days'  written  notice,  may  discharge  any 
tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien  upon  said  leased  premises,  citiier  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  in  the  event  Lessee 
does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  subject  to  any  defenses  of  Lessor  and 
apply  royalties  accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same. 

22.  Proportionate  Reduction  for  less  than  Entire  Interest.  It  is  agreed  that  if  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  oil, 
gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  in  and  under  any  of  the  leased  premises  less  dian  die  entire 
oil  and  gas  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  dicn 
the  royalties  and  all  oilier  benefits  to  accrue  or  to  be  paid  to  Lessor  hereunder  as  to  such  lands  shall  each  be 
reduced  to  the  proportion  thereof  which  the  mineral  fee  estate  of  Lessor  in  such  land  bears  to  die  entire 
mineral  fee  estate,  provided  diat  in  no  event  shall  there  be  any  refund  of  any  amounts  previously  paid  to 
Lessor  as  lease  bonus  or  delay  rentals. 

23.  Secondary  Recovery.  [DELETED.! 

24.  Compliance  with  Environmental  Laws  and  Regulations.  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  by  its 
acceptance  of  tiiis  lease,  hereby  agrees  to  comply  with  all  applicable  laws,  rules  and  regulations  and  hereby 
assumes  full  responsibility  for,  and  agrees  to  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless,  Lessor  (and  any  surface 
owner  odier  than  Lessor)  from  and  against  any  loss,  liability,  claim,  fine,  expense,  cost  (including  reasonable 
attorneys  fees  and  expenses)  and  cause  of  action  caused  by  or  ar  ising  out  of  die  violation  (or  defense  of  die 
alleged  violation)  of  any  federal,  state  or  local  laws,  rules  or  regulations  applicable  to  any  waste  material, 
drilling  matter,  fluid  or  any  hazardous  substances  released  or  caused  to  be  released  by  Lessee  or  Lessee's 
agents,  or  independent  contractors  from  die  land  leased  hereunder  or  pooled  herewith  into  die  atmosphere 
or  into  or  upon  the  land  or  any  water  course  or  body  of  water,  including  ground  water. 

25.  No  Salt  Water  or  Waste  Injection  Wells.  Lessee  shall  not  have  die  right  to  dispose  of  produced  water 
or  wastes  of  any  kind  on  die  leased  premises  witiiout  die  written  consent  of  Lessor. 

26.  Tjmely  Plugging  and  Abandonment  of  Wells.  Without  the  prior  written  consent  of  tlie  Lessor,  lessee 
shall  not  allow  any  well  located  on  die  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  herewith  to  remain  in  a  temporarily 
abandoned  state  for  a  period  more  than  the  lime  permitted  by  die  rules  and  regulations  of  die  applicable 
regulatory  authority,  witiiout  beginning  plugging  and  abandonment  operations  widr  respect  to  the  well  and 
restoring  die  location. 

27.  Alteration  /Modification.  The  terms  of  diis  Lease  cannot  be  altered  or  amended  except  by  a  written 
instrument  clearly  demonstrating  such  purpose  and  effect,  and  executed  by  bodi  parties  to  diis  Lease.  The 
written  instrument  shall  describe  the  specific  terms  or  provisions  being  altered  and  die  proposed 
modification  or  change  diereto.  Any  notation  or  legend  attached  to  a  royalty  check  shall  be  null  and  void 
and  witiiout  legal  significance  for  die  purpose  of  altering  diis  Lease. 


-7- 


28.  Division  Orders.  The  terms  of  this  lease  may  not  he  amended  by  any  division  order  and  the  signing  of  a 
division  order  by  any  mineral  owner  may  not  be  made  a  prerequisite  to  payment  of  royalty  hereunder. 

29.  Ancillary  Rights.  [INTENTIONALLY  DELETED.] 

30.  Notices.  All  notices  will  be  deemed  given  and  reports  will  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent  by  certified  letter, 
properly  addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States  mail,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  and  Lessee  at  die 
addresses  shown  above  or  at  such  odier  address  as  such  party  may  have  specified  theretofore  by  notice 
delivered  in  accordance  with  this  paragraph. 

31.  Attorney's  Fees.  In  tire  event  that  eidier  party  shall  be  required  to  employ  legal  counsel  for  die 
enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  Lease  and  prevails,  die  prevailing  party  will  be  entided  to  recover  from 
the  non-prevailing  party  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  . 

32.  Insurance.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain  insurance  covering 
all  of  its  operations  on  die  leased  premises,  including  any  work  performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors, 
subcontractors,  and  odiers.  The  policies  shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability  for  bodily 
injury  and  property  damage  with  a  limit  of  $2,000,000,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage  with  a  limit  of 
$3,000,000,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  die  environment  resulting  from  a  blowout,  including  coverage 
for  die  cost  of  clean  up  and  surface  remediation,  with  a  limit  of  $5,000,000.  The  policies  shall  show  Lessor 
{and  the  owner  of  die  surface  of  the  leased  premises  if  not  die  Lessor)  as  additionally  insured  parties  to  the 
extent  of  die  liabilities  incurred  hereunder.  Upon  Lessor's  request,  Lessee  shall  furnish  Lessor  with  a 
certificate  from  the  issuing  insurance  company  or  companies  evidencing  die  coverage  prior  to  conducting  any 
operations  and  annually  thereafter.  The  insurance  obligations  of  Lessee  described  herein  shall  continue  for  2 
years  after  expiration  of  this  lease. 

33.  Counterpart  Execution.  This  instrument  may  be  executed  as  one  document  signed  by  all  parties,  or  die 
named  parlies  may  join  by  execution  of  a  counterpart,  with  die  same  effect  as  if  all  parties  executed  this 
instrument.  Executed  signature  pages  from  different  originals  of  this  instrument  may  be  combined  to  form  a 
single  original  instrument;  provided  however,  this  lease  shall  not  become  effective  unless  and  until  it  is 
executed  by  all  of  die  undersigned. 

34.  Split  Stream  Contracts.  In  the  event  diat  gas  produced  under  the  terms  of  diis  lease  is  sold  under 
multiple  gas  purchase  contracts,  "split  stream  contr  acts,"  Lessor,  at  its  option,  may  require  diat  all  Lessees 
who  arc  selling  gas  produced  under  the  terms  of  this  lease  designate  a  single  Lessee  to  pay  all  royalties  due  to 
Lessor  under  diis  lease. 

35.  Most  Favored  Nation.  I  INTENTIONALLY  DELETED] 

36.  Compliance  with  the  Railroad  Commission  Regulations.  Lessee's  operations  on  the  leased  premises 
shall  comply  with  all  regulations  and  requirements  of  the  Texas  Railroad  Commission  or  any  successor 
governmental  agency. 

37.  Default.  [INTENTIONALLY  DELETED.] 

38.  Lien.  Lessor  shall  have  and  hereby  reserves  a  lien  on  its  Royalty  Percentage  created  by  this  Lease  and 
die  production  from  (his  Lease  (the  "Collateral")  to  secure  die  payment  of  all  royalties  and  odier  payments 
and  benefits  due  and  payable  to  Lessor  and  to  secure  the  performance  of  all  of  the  obligations  of  the  Lessee 
under  this  Lease.  In  addition  to  any  otiicr  remedies  provided  in  diis  Lease,  Lessor,  as  a  secured  party,  may 
in  die  event  of  Lessee's  default  hereunder,  proceed  under  the  Texas  Uniform  Commercial  Code  as  to  die 
Collateral,  in  any  manner  permitted  by  said  Code.  In  the  event  of  default  by  Lessee,  Lessors  shall  have  die 
right  to  take  possession  of  die  Collateral,  and  to  receive  die  proceeds  attributable  diereto  and  to  hold  same  as 
security  for  Lessee's  obligations  or  to  apply  it  on  die  amounts  owing  to  Lessors  hereunder.  The  Collateral 
includes  accounts  from  the  sale  diereof,  and  diis  Lease  shall  be  deemed  a  financing  statement  under  the 
Code.  The  addresses  of  Lessors,  as  Secured  Party,  and  Lessee,  as  Debtor,  arc  as  set  forth  at  (lie  beginning  of 
diis  Lease. 

39.  Minimum  Royalty.  [INTENTIONALLY  DELETED] 

40.  Shared  Information.  To  die  extent  such  knowledge  and  information  is  available  and  material  to  Lessee 
so  diat  it  would  act  on  its  own  behalf,  Lessee  agrees  to  give  notice  to  Lessor  of  die  need,  it  any,  to  bring  a 


-8- 


claim  or  lawsuit  against  a  third  party  who  is  draining,  damaging,  overproducing,  unlawfully  depleting,  or 
otherwise  damaging  any  reservoir  underlying  the  leased  premises,  in  a  timely  fashion  so  that  Lessor  may 
assert  Lessor's  own  claim  or  lawsuit  in  a  court  of  appropriate  jurisdiction,  or  before  a  regulatory  agency. 
Lessee  shall  give  such  nolice  lo  Lessor  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  the  (late  that  Lessee  becomes  aware  of  the 
need  to  assert  such  claim  or  lawsuit.  In  tliis  regard,  Lessee  acknowledges  thai  Lessee  is  in  a  superior  position 
to  Lessor  with  respect  to  information  regarding  die  geology,  operations,  production  and  sale  of  oil  and  gas 
and  constituent  hydrocarbons  from  die  leased  premises  and  lands  adjacent,  contiguous  or  in  the  vicinity  of 
die  leased  premises  and  particularly  with  respect  to  reservoirs  not  on  die  leased  premises  which  may  be 
productive  of  oil,  gas  or  otiier  hydrocarbons  and  wliich  underlay  the  leased  premises.  Notwidistanding 
anytiiing  herein  to  die  contrary,  die  agreement  by  Lessee  to  share  such  information  is  not  intended,  and  shall 
not,  create  any  special  relationship  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  or  a  fiduciary  duty  on  die  part  of  Lessee. 

41.  Miscellaneous  Provisions. 

(a)  Nothing  in  this  Lease  negates  die  usual  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee. 

(b)  Lessee's  obligations  to  pay  money  under  tliis  Lease  are  to  be  performed  in  Tarrant 

County,  Texas. 

(c)  Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  tliis  Lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to  be 
considered  in  die  interpretation  or  construction  of  diis  Lease. 

(d)  This  Lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  die  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns. 


(e)        Time  is  of  die  essence  of  diis  Lease. 


42.  Surface  Rights.  Notwidistanding  any  odicr  provision  herein,  Lessor  retains  all  rights  to  die  surface,  and 
Lessee  shall  have  no  right  to  enter  upon  or  utilize  the  surface  estate  of  die  leased  premises  for  any  reason 
whatsoever.  In  addition,  Lessee  agrees  not  to  conduct  any  surface  activity  (or  participate  widi  any  working 
interest  owner  under  die  terms  of  a  joint  operating  agreement  or  otherwise)  widiin  ,500  feet  of  die  leased 
premises.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  this  waiver  of  surface  shall  not  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the 
rights  of  Lessee  to  exploit,  explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  from  wells  from  surface  locations  more  than  500  feet  off  the 
leased  premises,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  activity  which  comes  under 
the  surface  of  the  leased  premises. 

43.  Outstanding  Interests.  Lessor  may  not  own  all  of  the  minerals  underlying  die  leased  premises.  Lessee 
agrees  diat  it  will  not  drill,  conduct  operations  or  participate  in  drilling  or  operations  which  arc  not  in 
compliance  with  die  terms  and  requirements  of  this  Lease  by  claiming  authority  under  die  lease  or  leases 
covering  die  outstanding  interest. 


LESSOR:  (whether  one  or  more) 

TEXAS  AND  SOUTHWESTERN  CATTLE 
RAISERS  ASSOCIATION,  INC. 


Eldon  J.  White,  Vice  President  and  CEO 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

lent  was  acknowledged  before  me  tlus^jffl^day  of 
.,  2008,  by  Eldon  J.  While,  Vice  President 


and  CEOofth 
Inc. 


exas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers  Association, 


Evelyn  J  Starfuy 

My  Commission  Expires 

02/13/2009 


LESSEE: 

XTO  ENERGY  INC. 


By:  Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr. 

Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  Administration 

F:\Documents\Texas  &  SW  Cattle  Raisers  AssodXTO  OGL.doc 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  tliis  day  ot 

 ,  2008,  by  Edwin  S.  Ryanjr.,  Senior  Vice 

President  of  Land  Administration  for  XTO  Energy,  Inc.  a  Delaware 
corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


-10- 


EXHIBIT  "A 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL,  GAS  AND 
MINERAL  LEASE  DATED  MAY  15,  2008  FROM  TEXAS  AND  SOUTHWESTERN 
CATTLE  RAISERS  ASSOCIATION,  INC.,  AS  LESSOR  TO  XTO  ENERGY,  INC., 
AS  LESSEE. 


Being  1.0708  acres,  more  or  less,  being  all  of  Lots  5,  6  and  7,  Block  23,  and  the  North  one- 
half  of  the  32.5  foot  wide  alley  adjacent  to  said  Lots,  Jennings  West  Addition  to  the  City  of 
Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  more  fully  described  in  that  certain  General 
Warranty  Deed  dated  December  18,  1995  from  Texas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers 
Foundation  to  Texas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers  Association,  Inc.  and  recorded  in 
Volume  12204  Page  445  in  the  Official  Public  Records  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Being  2.1504  acres,  more  or  less,  a  portion  of  Block  25,  Jennings  West  Addition  to  the  City 
of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  more  fully  described  in  that  certain  General 
Warranty  Deed  dated  December  18,  1995  from  Texas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers 
Foundation  to  Texas  and  Southwestern  Cattle  Raisers  Association,  Inc.  and  recorded  in 
Volume  12204  Page  450  in  the  Official  Public  Records  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

CONTAINING  3.2212  ACRES,  MORE  OR  LESS,  LEASED  HEREIN. 


SIGNED  FOR  IDENTIFICATION: 


DESCRIPTION  OF  LAND: 


TEXAS  AND  SOUTHWESTERN 
CATTLE  RAISERS  ASSOCIATION,  INC. 
By:  Eldon  J.  White,  Vice  President  and  CEO 


CAR  LA  PETROLEUM  INC 
16990  DALLAS  PKWY  SUITE  126 


DALLAS 


TX  75248 


Submitter:  JAY  FRAZIER 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:       05/22/2008  03:14  PM 
instrument  #:       D2081 92906 


lllllllllIHIIIIIIllllllllllll 


D2081 92906 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


