Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  May  29  02:05  PM 

Fee:  $  28.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  4  Pages 


D208200456 


Suzanne  Henderson 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING 
INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY 
NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  effective  as  of  this  1st  day  of  April,  2008,  between  the  Lessor  set  forth  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto,  as  Lessor,  whose  address  is 
set  forth  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto,  and  HTP  &  Associates,  LLC,  Lessee,  whose  address  is  1 3 1  East  Exchange  Avenue,  Suite  1 03,  Fort  Worth,  Texas 
76164. 

WITNESSETH: 

1.  Lessor  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  Ten  Dollars  and  Other  Good  and  Valuable  Consideration  ($10.00  & 
OGVC),  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  of  the  agreements  of  Lessee  herein  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto 
Lessee  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for  and  producing  oil  or  gas,  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and 
geophysical  surveys  by  seismograph,  core  test,  gravity  and  magnetic  methods,  injecting  gas,  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  subsurface  strata  on  lands 
owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor,  from  the  following  described  land  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  as  described  on  Exhibit  "A",  attached. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above,  whether 
the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  with  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above,  including  the 
minerals  owned  by  Lessor  located  in  streets,  roads,  alleys,  easements  and  rights  of  way  adjacent  of  Lessor's  lands  described  on  Schedule  I  hereto. 
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  it  is  agreed  and  understood  that  here  shall  be  no  drilling  or  surface  operations  on  any  of  the  lands  covered  by  this 
Lease. 

2.  This  is  a  paid  up  lease  and  subject  to  the  other  provisions  herein  contained,  this  lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called 
"primary  term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  said  land  or  hnd  with  which  said  land  is  pooled  hereunder. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipelines  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
25%  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average  posted  market  price 
of  such  25%  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  25%  of  the  cost  of 
treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  to  pay  Lessor  for  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  Lessee,  25%  of  the 
amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products, 
25%  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  gasoline  or  other  products  extracted  therefrom  and  25%  of  the  amount  realized  from  the  sale  of  residue  gas  after 
deducting  the  amount  used  for  plant  fuel  and/or  compression;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said 
land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar 
($  1 .00)  per  long  ton.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land 
or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as 
though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in 
had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells, 
but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow 
line,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after 
the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  alisuch  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land, 
then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($  1 .00) 
for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety 
day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender 
shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were 
producing,  and  may  be  deposited  or  paid  directly  to  lessor  or  their  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the 
ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same, 
Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties 
or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  lessee  may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of 
Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for 
payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  part, 
liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  is  hereby  given  the  right  and  power  to  pool  or  combine  the  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  as  to 
oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  immediate  vicinity  thereof  to  the 
extent  hereinafter  stipulated,  when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  properly  to  explore,  or  to  develop  and  operate  said  leased 
premises  in  compliance  with  the  spacing  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of 
Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil  and  gas  in  and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  said  premises.  Units  pooled  for  oil  hereunder  shall  not 
substantially  exceed  40  acres  each  in  area,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  640  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%)  thereof,  provided  that  should  governmental  authority  havhg  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  ttose  specified,  for 
the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling  or  already  drilled,  units 
thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  Lessee  under  the  provisions  hereof  may 
pool  or  combine  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any  one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any  one  or  more 
strata.  The  units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  the  unit  or  units  into  which  the  lease  is  pooled  or 
combined  as  to  any  other  stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  The  pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the 
rights  of  the  Lessee  hereunder  to  pool  this  lease  or  portions  thereof  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in 
which  the  leased  premises  are  situated  an  instrument  describing  and  designating  the  pooled  acreage  as  a  pooled  unit;  and  upon  such  recordation  the  unit  shall 
be  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  the  unit  is  likewise  effective  as  to  all  other  owners  of 
surface,  mineral,  royalty,  or  other  rights  in  land  included  in  such  unit.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling  option  before  or  after  commencing 
operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  on  the  leased  premises,  and  the  pooled  unit  may  include,  but  it  is  not  required  to  include,  land  or  leases  upon 
which  a  well  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  has  theretofore  been  completed  or  upon  which  operations  for  the  drilling  of  a  well  for  oil  or 
gas  have  theretofore  been  commenced.  In  the  event  of  operations  for  drilling  on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  which  includes  all 
or  a  portion  of  the  land  covered  by  this  lease,  regardless  of  whether  such  operations  for  drilling  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or 
after  the  execution  of  this  instrument  or  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit,  such  operations  shall  be  considered  as  operations  for  drilling  on  or 
production  of  oil  or  gas  from  land  covered  by  this  lease  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  be  located  on  the  premises  covered  by  this  lease  and  in  such  event 
operations  for  drilling  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  commenced  on  said  land  within  the  meaning  of  paragraph  5  of  this  lease;  and  the  entire  acreage 
constituting  such  unit  or  units,  as  to  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  as  herein  provided,  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalties  on 
production  from  the  pooled  unit,  as  if  the  same  were  included  in  this  lease.  For  the  purpose  of  computing  the  royalties  to  which  owners  of  royalties  and 
payments  out  of  production  and  each  of  them  shall  be  entitled  on  production  of  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  from  the  pooled  unit,  there  shall  be  allocated  to 
the  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  said  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  a  pro  rata 
portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from  the  pooled  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on  the  pooled  unit.  Such  allocation  shall 
be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is  to  say,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract 
within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from  the  pooled  unit 
which  the  number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this  lease  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface 
acres  included  in  the  pooled  unit.  Royalties  hereunder  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  so 
allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were  from  such  land.  The  production  from  an  oil  well  will 
be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  a  gas  pooled  unit;  and  production  from  a 


gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit.  The  formation  of  any 
unit  hereunder  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  changing  the  ownership  any  shut-in  production  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease 
now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result 
merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  as  provided  above  with  consequent 
allocation  of  production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or 
hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  Lessor  shall  never  receive  less  than  its  royalty  share  of  all  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  or  disposition 
of  oil  and  gas  produced  and  marketed  pursuant  to  this  Oil  and  Gas  Lease.  And  likewise,  Lessee  shall  never  be  liable  to  Lessor  for  any  amount  of  royalties 
payable  hereunder  that  is  greater  than  the  actual  amount  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  or  disposition  of  such  oil  and  gas  produced  and  marketed  under  the 
terms  and  provisions  of  this  Oil  and  Gas  Lease. 

5 .  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  said  land,  or  from  the  land  pooled  therewith,  but 
Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  60  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary 
term,  the  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of 
more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from 
said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  after  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said 
land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for 
drilling  or  reworking  within  60  days  after  the  cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutivedays,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mireral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  g»s,  or  other  mineral  is 
produced  from  said  land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof,  may  be  dissolved  by 
Lessee  by  instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises  are  situated  at  any  time  after  the  completion  of  a 
dry  hole  or  the  cessation  of  production  on  said  unit.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought  in  on  adjacent 
land  and  within  330  feet  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably  prudent 
operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  place  of  record  a  release  or  releases 
covering  any  portion  or  portions  of  the  above  described  premises  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  and  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  as  to  the  acreage  surrendered. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  said 
land,  including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing.  When  required  by  Lessor,  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipe  lines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well 
shall  be  drilled  within  two  hundred  (200)  feet  of  any  residence  or  barnnow  on  said  land  without  Lessor's  consent. 

7.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and 
assigns;  but  no  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  land,  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights 
of  Lessee;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by  registered 
U.  S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments  evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of  assignment 
hereof  in  whole  or  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  lease  or  a  portion  thereof  who  commits 
such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder,  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until  furnished  with  a  recordable 
instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

8.  The  breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  arising  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or 
reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  No  obligation  reasonably  to  develop  the  leased  premises 
shall  arise  during  the  primary  term.  Should  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities  be  discovered  on  said  premises,  then  after  the  expiration  of  the 
primary  term,  Lessee  shall  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator,  but  in  discharging  this  obligation  it  shall  in  no  event  be 
required  to  drill  more  than  one  well  per  forty  (40)  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one  well  per  640 
acres  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  10%  of  640  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying 
quantities.  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  anytime  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  lease, 
Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  days  after  receipt  of 
such  notice  in  which  to  commence  the  compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  instrument. 

9.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  said  land  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other 
lien  upon  said  land,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  in  event  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties 
accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  it  is  agreed  that  if  this  lease 
covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's 
interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than 
such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple 
estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  Should  any  one  or 
more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessors  fill  to  execute  this  lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  pirties  executing  the  sane. 

10.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  thereon  or  from  producing  any  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  therefrom  by  reason  of  scarcity  of  or  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use  equipment  or  material,  or 
by  operation  of  force  majeure,  and  Federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation,  including  zoning  or  permitting  rules  of  any  governmental  authority, 
then  while  so  prevented,  Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply 
therewith;  and  this  lease  shall  be  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or 
from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  the  lease  premises;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding.  Anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  lessee  may  transportthird  party  gas  on  and  across  the  leased  premises. 

11.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  either  before  or  after  production  is 
established,  to  place  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  in  a  co-operative  with  other  land,  lease  or  leases  for  the  exploration  and  development  of  all  lands  included 
in  such  co-operative,  on  such  terms  and  conditions  as  Lessee  may  consider  prudent.  Any  such  co-operative  formed  by  Lessee  shall  consist  of  such  amount  of 
acreage,  configuration  and  number  of  wells,  as  Lessee  shall  determine  at  the  exercise  of  Lessee's  reasonable  judgment,  including  Lessee's  modification 
rearrangement,  enlargement,  and  reduction  of  such  co-operative.  If  all  or  a  portion  of  lands  covered  by  this  Lease,  is  included  in  a  co-operative,  then  royalty 
shall  be  paid  on  a  surface  acreage  basis,  that  is  on  the  basis  that  the  number  of  acres  covered  by  this  lease  that  is  included  in  the  co-operative  bears  to  the  total 
number  of  acres  in  the  co-operative. 

12.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  any  number  of  counterparts  of  each  of  the  Lessors  as  identified  on  Schecule  I  hereto  and  each  counterpartof  a 
Schedule  I  hereto  so  executed  shall  have  the  same  force  and  effectas  an  original  instrument  and  as  if  all  the  parties  to  the  aggregate  counterparts  had  signed 
the  same  instrument.  For  recording  purposes,  the  counterpart  signature  and  acknowledgment  of  the  Schedule  I  of  each  of  the  Lessors  may  be  included  in  o« 
instrument  to  be  filed  for  record  in  the  records  of  the  County  Clerk  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

13.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  and  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of 
two  (2)  years  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  full  bonus  consideration,  terms  and 
conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  cn  the  date  first  above  written. 


SEE  SCHEDULE  I  ATTACHED  HERETO  FOR  THE  NAMES  AND  ADDRESSES  OF  EACH  LESSOR  AND  THE  SIGNATURES  AND 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  FOR  EACH  LESSOR 


EXHIBIT  "A" 

69  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  John  Breeding  Survey  A-188; 
being  all  of  the  Eleanor  Hodgkins  Addition  Subdivision  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth 
according  to  the  map  or  plats  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  1930,  Page  513  of  the  Map 
Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas.  The  leased  premises  comprises  all  of  the  lands 
collectively  described  on  Schedule  I  attached  hereto  under  the  heading  "Lands  Covered 
by  this  Lease," 


SCHEDULE  I 


Ji'-iS 'FROM/  vlMADE,A$K  °K  CE,RTA,N  °11  AND  °AS  LEASE  DATED 
IsiS   AS  LESSOR  TO  HTP A 


ssor: 


—  Sml 


Lands  Covered  bv  this  l,ww 



Lessor: 


Lessor: 


Bv: 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 
STATE  OF  TEXAS 


BEFORE  ME.  tpf  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared 


^S^t^T^  ^  SUbSCribed  t0  the  f0reg0in^ instr™  and  acknowledged 

to  mi  that  they  executed  the  same  tor  the  purposes  and  consideration  therein  expressed. 


Given  under  ^^^mce  this  ^feU  day  oflfW         ,  2008. 


Jotary  Public 


