NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON, 
YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING 
INFORMATION  FROM  ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  ANY  INTEREST 
IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC 
RECORDS;  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE 
NUMBER. 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  ยง 

ยง 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  ยง 

THIS  AGREEMENT  is  made  effective  May  ij*  2008,  between  Harwood/Bedford  All  Storage, 
Ltd.f  a  Texas  limited  partnership,  whose  address  is  301  South  Sherman  Street,  Suite  100, 
Richardson,  Texas  75081,  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Lessor"),  and  Dale  Property  Services, 
L.L.C.,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company,  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Lessee"),  whose  address  is 
2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870,  LB-9,  Dallas,  Texas  75201. 
Grant. 

in  consideration  of  Ten  Dollars  and  other  consideration  in  hand  paid,  Lessor  grants  and  leases 
exclusively  unto  Lessee  the  following  described  land  (the  "Land")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for 
the  sole  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling,  and  producing  oil  and  gas,  laying  pipelines  and  building 
roads  and  tanks  thereon  to  produce,  save,  treat,  process,  store,  and  transport  oil  and  gas  and  other 
products  manufactured  from  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  Land  described  as  follows: 

1.799  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  all  of  Lot  2R-2,  Block  1,  out  of  Harwood  Hills 
Village,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Bedford,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  with  metes  and  bounds 
according  to  the  plat  thereof  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Page  9157,  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant 
County,  Texas; 

1)  Primary  Term.  This  Lease  is  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called  "Primary 
Term")  and  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land  in  paying  quantities  or  the 
lease  is  continued  in  effect  as  otherwise  provided  herein. 

2)  Minerals  Covered.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  lease  covers  only  oil  and 
gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced 
through  a  well  bore. 

3)  Royalty,  (a)  The  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  are: 

( 1 )  25%  of  all  oil  (including  distillate  or  condensate  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons) 
produced  and  saved  from  the  Land,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  the  well  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor 
into  the  pipeline  to  which  the  well  or  wells  may  be  connected. 

(2)  25%  of  the  gross  proceeds  received  at  the  point  of  delivery  or  first  sale  of  all  gas, 
including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substances,  produced  from  the  Land. 

(3)  25%  of  the  gross  proceeds  of  all  plant  products  (including  residue  gas),  free  of  any 
processing  cost,  where  gas  is  processed  in  a  plant  on  or  off  the  Land  by  Lessee  or  any  affiliated 
person  or  entity;  and  if  processed,  but  not  by  Lessee  or  an  affiliated  person  or  entity,  25%  of  that 
part  of  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  the  processed  gas  and  products  therefrom  that  are 
allocable  to  the  production  from  the  Land. 

(b)  Unless  specified  below,  Lessor's  royalty  may  not  be  charged,  directly  or  indirectly,  with 
any  of  Lessee's  expenses  of  production,  gathering,  compressing,  treating  or  marketing  the  oil  and 
gas  produced  from  the  Land,  and  all  of  such  expenses  shall  be  considered  costs  of  production  and 
not  post  production  costs.  Royalty  will  be  paid  on  gas  used  by  Lessee  in  compression,  but 
royalties  will  not  be  paid  on  gas  used  in  gas  lift  operations  or  recycling.  It  is  the  intent  of  the 
parties  that  the  provisions  of  this  Section  4(b)  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not 
to  be  construed  as  "surplusage"  under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v. 
NationsBank,  939  S.W.2d  118  (Tex.  1997).  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  Lessor's  royalty  may 
be  charged  with  costs  and  expenses  of  transporting,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing  and 


treating  gas  produced  from  the  lease  as  long  as  such  costs  are  charged  to  Lessee  by  a  gas 
purchaser  or  transportation  company  which  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  in  an  arms  length 
transaction,  and  provided  such  costs  do  not  exceed  those  charged  for  performing  similar  services 
by  unrelated  third  parties  in  arms  length  transactions  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas.  If  gas  produced 
from  the  Land  is  sold  by  Lessee  pursuant  to  an  arms-length  contract  with  a  purchaser  that  is  not 
an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  and  for  a  term  no  longer  than  that  which  is  usual  and  customary  in  the 
industry  at  the  time  the  contract  is  made,  then  the  market  value  of  the  gas  sold  pursuant  to  the 
contract  shall  be  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  the  sale. 

c)  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a 
particular  well  not  later  than  120  days  after  the  end  of  the  month  following  first  delivery  of  gas 
from  the  well  into  the  pipeline.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to 
Lessor  by  the  last  day  of  each  month  its  royalty  on  production  for  which  Lessee  received  payment 
in  the  preceding  month,  but  in  no  event  shall  royalty  be  paid  more  than  60  days  after  the  last  day 
of  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  interest  at  the 
maximum  lawful  rate  from  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay. 

(d)  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or 
estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  interest  due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in 
writing  signed  by  Lessor. 

(e)  The  receipt  by  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company 
of  proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's 
operator,  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator, 
will  at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the 
insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  the  Land 
or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the  Land,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for 
payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest 
if  not  timely  paid. 

(f)  Gas  produced  from  the  Land  shall  not  be  commingled  with  gas  produced  from  any 
other  lands  prior  to  the  point  where  the  gas  produced  from  this  lease  passes  through  the  meter 
which  will  measure  the  gas  for  calculating  the  payment  made  by  the  purchaser  of  gas 
production. 

5)  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  lease  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being  sold,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  on  or  before  1 80  days  after  the 
date  which  the  well  is  shut-in,  an  annual  royalty  in  the  amount  set  forth  below  for  each  well 
from  which  gas  is  not  being  sold.  The  royalty  amount  shall  be  $25  per  acre.  While  royalty 
payments  are  timely  and  properly  paid,  the  well  shall  be  considered  as  a  producing  well.  The 
right  of  Lessee  to  maintain  this  lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalty  is  limited  to  a 
period  of  two  (2)  consecutive  years  or  four  (4)  years  in  the  aggregate  following  expiration  of 
the  Primary  Term.  The  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay  shut-in  royalty  is  a  condition  and  not  a 
covenant.  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty  under  this  paragraph  may  be  made  by  the  check 
of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto. 

6)  Continuous  Development,  (a)  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil  or  gas  is  not 
being  produced  from  the  Land,  but  Lessee  has  commenced  the  drilling  of  a  well  on  land 
pooled  with  the  Land,  the  Lease  will  not  terminate  but  will  remain  in  effect  for  so  long 
thereafter  as  operations  are  carried  out  with  due  diligence  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  120 
days,  and  if  the  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  the  Lease  shall  remain  in 
force  as  otherwise  provided  herein.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations" 
means  operations  for  any  of  the  following:  operations  for  drilling,  testing,  completing, 
reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back,  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  of  or  in 
the  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas. 

(b)  If  this  Lease  is  maintained  upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  by  production, 
drilling  or  otherwise  as  provided  herein,  this  Lease  will  remain  in  force  as  to  all  acreage 
covered  hereby,  as  long  as  there  is  no  lapse  of  more  than  180  days  between  the  completion  of 
one  well  thereon  and  the  commencement  of  the  actual  drilling  of  another  well  thereon.  For 
the  purpose  of  computing  the  time  for  the  commencement  of  actual  drilling  of  a  well,  each 
well  drilled  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  completed  on  the  date  of  the  release  of  the  drilling 
rig  from  the  drillsite  of  the  well,  if  a  dry  hole,  or  on  the  date  of  completing  the  Texas 
Railroad  Commission  Potential  Test  if  the  well  is  completed  as  a  well  capable  of  producing 


oil  or  gas. 


(c)  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  production  from  any  well  shall  cease  for 
any  cause,  Lessee  shall  have  120  days  from  the  cessation  of  production  to  commence,  and 
thereafter  prosecute  with  due  diligence  drilling  or  reworking  operations  in  a  good  faith 
attempt  to  restore  production  from  the  tract  on  which  the  well  is  located  with  no  cessation  of 
more  than  120  days,  and  if  such  operations  result  in  production,  this  lease  shall  continue  as  to 
such  tract  for  so  long  as  production  in  paying  quantities  continues  from  such  tract. 

(d)  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  or  such  later  time  as  the  Lease  is  not 
maintained  by  continuous  development,  this  Lease  will  terminate  except  as  to  the  amount  of 
acreage  described  below  surrounding  any  well  that  is  then  producing  in  paying  quantities,  or 
deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  by  virtue  of  payment  of  shut-in  royalties, 
(hereafter  a  "Retained  Tract"),  and  as  to  each  Retained  Tract,  the  Lease  will  then  terminate  as 
to  all  depths  below  100  feet  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest 
producing  formation  on  the  Retained  Tract.  The  Lease  will  be  treated  as  a  separate  lease  with 
respect  to  each  Retained  Tract  and  will  continue  so  long  as  production  in  paying  quantities 
continues  from  the  tract. 

7)  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  the  Land  with  other  contiguous  acreage  to 
form  a  pooled  unit  for  the  production  of  oil  and  gas.  The  size  of  the  unit  shall  not  exceed  320 
acres  plus  a  ten  percent  (10%)  tolerance  for  a  horizontal  gas  well.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record 
in  the  Real  Property  Records  where  the  land  is  located,  an  instrument  describing  and 
designating  the  pooled  acreage  and  depths  for  the  pooled  unit,  and  upon  such  recordation,  the 
unit  shall  become  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its 
pooling  option  before  or  after  commencing  operations.  In  the  event  of  operations  for  drilling 
on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  any  part  of  the  pooled  unit  which  includes  the  land 
covered  by  this  Lease,  the  operations  or  production  shall  be  considered  as  operations  on  or 
production  of  oil  or  gas  from  the  land  covered  by  this  Lease,  whether  or  not  the  well  is 
located  on  the  land  covered  by  this  Lease.  For  the  purposes  of  computing  the  royalties  to 
which  owners  of  royalty  payments  out  of  production  shall  be  entitled  on  production  of  oil  or 
gas,  or  either  of  them,  from  the  pooled  unit,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by 
this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  that  prorated  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them, 
produced  from  the  pooled  unit  which  the  number  of  mineral  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  and 
included  in  the  pooled  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  mineral  acres  included  in  the  pooled 
unit.  Royalties  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production  whether  it  be  oil  and  gas, 
or  either  of  them,  so  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  just 
as  though  such  production  was  from  the  land  covered  by  this  Lease. 

8)  Secondary  Recovery.  Lessee  will  not  implement  any  repressuring,  pressure  maintenance, 
recycling,  or  secondary  recovery  operations  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor, 
which  consent  will  not  be  unreasonably  withheld. 

9)  Assignments.  All  assignments,  except  those  to  officers,  subsidiaries,  and  affiliates  of 
Lessee,  must  be  approved  by  Lessors  in  writing  and  will  require  the  assignee  to  assume  all  of 
Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease. 

10)  Force  Majeure.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure  from 
complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease  (other  than  a  requirement  to 
pay  money  that  has  accrued  as  was  due  prior  to  the  occurrence  of  the  force  majeure  event), 
from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  Land,  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas, 
then  while  so  prevented,  that  covenant  will  be  suspended;  Lessee  will  not  be  liable  for 
damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  this  Lease  will  be  extended  so  long  as  Lessee  is 
prevented  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas 
from  the  Land;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  will  not  be  counted  against  Lessee. 
"Force  Majeure"  means  any  Act  of  God,  war,  strike,  riot,  insurrection,  any  federal  or  state 
law,  or  any  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  or  other  similar  cause  (other  than 
financial  reasons).  The  inability  to  obtain  a  permit  to  drill  a  well  from  the  City  of  Benbrook 
shall  constitute  a  force  majeure,  but  may  not  be  used  to  extend  this  lease  in  excess  of  two 
years. 

1 1)  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land. 


By  acceptance  of  this  lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to 
investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the 
Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less 
than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  payable  hereunder  shall  be  reduced 
proportionately.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  on  the 
Land,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  Lessee  will  have  the  option  to  apply  the  royalties 
accruing  to  Lessor  toward  payment  of  it. 

12)  Curing  Defaults.  Should  Lessee  at  any  time  fail  to  comply  with  its  obligations  hereunder 
regarding  construction,  maintenance,  or  repair,  Lessor  shall  have  the  right,  after  giving  60 
days  prior  written  notice  to  Lessee,  to  do  or  have  done  whatever  is  necessary  to  fulfill  the 
obligations  to  its  satisfaction,  and  Lessee  shall  be  liable  to  Lessor  for  the  reasonable  and 
necessary  expenses  thus  incurred  by  Lessor,  to  be  paid  within  30  days  after  Lessor  shall  have 
furnished  Lessee  an  itemized  written  statement  of  the  expenses. 

13)  Notices.  All  notices  shall  be  deemed  given  and  reports  shall  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent 
by  certified  letter,  personal  delivery,  Federal  Express,  or  other  courier  service,  properly 
addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States  mail,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  and  Lessee  at 
the  addresses  shown  above,  or  by  personal  delivery  or  delivery  by  Federal  Express  or  other 
courier  service  which  provides  verification  of  receipt. 

14)  Attorney's  Fees,  the  event  that  Lessor  or  Lessee  shall  be  required  to  employ  legal 
counsel  for  the  enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  lease  and  prevails  by  a  final, 
unappealable  judgment,  the  party  found  to  be  in  default  of  the  provisions  of  the  lease  shall  be 
liable  to  the  other  for  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  in  connection  with 
enforcing  the  rights  under  this  lease. 

15)  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR, 
AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL 
EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY 
NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY 
FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS 
ON  THE  LAND  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR 
ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS 
USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS 
AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON 
ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT 
CONTRACTORS. 

16)  Option  Clause.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein  contained,  Lessee  is 
hereby  granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be  exercised  prior  to  the  date  on  which  this  lease  or 
any  portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  provisions,  of  extending 
this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage 
described  herein.  The  only  action  required  by  Lessee  to  exercise  this  option  being  payment  to 
Lessor,  at  the  above  address,  of  an  additional  consideration  of  the  sum  of  thirteen  thousand 
five  hundred  dollars  ($13,500.00)  per  net  mineral  acre  so  extended,  which  payment  shall 
cover  the  entire  two  (2)  year  extended  primary  term.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as 
herein  provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  lease  originally 
provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years.  If  this  lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a  portion  of 
the  acreage  then  covered  thereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by  a  recordable 
instrument. 


17)  Miscellaneous  Provisions. 

(a)  In  the  event  this  lease  expires  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land,  Lessee  shall 
promptly  furnish  Lessor  with  a  written,  recordable  release  covering  all  of  the  Land  or  that 
portion  of  the  Land  to  be  released. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  lease  negates  the  usual  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee. 

(c)  Upon  receipt  of  written  request  from  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  furnish  Lessor  with  copies  of  all 
title  opinions  prepared  for  Lessee  covering  the  Leased  Premises.  Such  title  information  shall 


be  without  warranty  and  shall  be  provided  for  informational  purposes  only. 

(d)  Upon  receipt  of  written  request  from  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  furnish  Lessor  copies  of  reports 
filed  with  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  or  other  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  applications  to  drill,  well  tests,  completion  reports, 
plugging  records,  and  production  reports,  Lessee  shall,  at  the  same  time,  deliver  a  copy  of  the 
report  to  Lessor. 

(e)  Lessee  will  divulge  to  Lessor  correct  information  as  requested  by  Lessor  as  to  each  well, 
the  production  therefrom,  and  such  technical  information  as  Lessee  may  require. 

(f)  No  obligation  that  has  accrued  prior  to  the  occurrence  of  the  Force  Majeure  event  of 
Lessee  to  pay  money  under  this  lease  will  be  excused  or  delayed  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure. 
Lessee's  obligations  to  pay  money  under  this  lease  are  to  be  performed  in  Tarrant  County, 
Texas.  Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  this  lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to  be 
considered  in  the  interpretation  or  construction  of  this  lease.  The  execution  or  ratification  by 
Lessor  of  any  division  order,  gas  contract,  or  any  other  document  will  not  alter  any  provision 
of  this  lease  unless  the  intent  to  do  so  is  expressly  stated  in  the  document. 

(g)  Lessor  and  Lessee  may  execute  a  memorandum  of  this  lease  for  recording  purposes  rather 
than  recording  this  lease. 

(h)  This  lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and  their  respective  heirs, 
personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns.  Executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 

18)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein,  Lessee  shall  not  conduct  any  surface 
operations  on  the  herein  leased  premises,  however,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  explore  for 
the  oil  and  gas  under  the  leased  premises  and  the  right  to  drill,  operate  and  produce 
directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  through  and  under  the  leased  premises,  irrespective  of  the 
bottom  hole  locations  of  such  wells.  To  this  end,  Lessor  grants  to  Lessee  a  subsurface 
easement  for  all  purposes  associated  with  such  horizontal  and/or  directional  wells. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


LESSOR: 

Harwood/Bedford  All  Storage,  Ltd.,  a  Texas  limited  partnership 
By:  Quine  &  Associates,  Inc.,  as  Agent 


By:  Coy  Qirrr^ 
Title:  CEO  of  Quine  &  Associates,  Inc. 


LESSEE: 


Dale  Property  Services,  L.L.C.,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company 


Acknowledgements 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  _[ 


.  2008,  by 

Coy  Quine,  CEO  of  Quine  &  Associates,  Inc.,  a  Texas  corporation,  Agent  fqrTlarwood/  Bedford 
All  Storage,  Ltd.,  a  Texas  limited  partnership,  on  behalf  of  said  oartnersfii 


CYNTHIA  R.  S.  VENTRtS 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 

April  13,  2D09  | 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


ML 


_day  of , 


iabilitv  coi 


,  2008,  by 


Mike  Taliaferro,  President  of  Dale  Property  Services,  L.L.C.,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company,  on 
behalf  of  said  company.  , 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS 


TX  75201 


Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Regis*ration:       06/02/2008  10:26  AM 
Instrument  #:  D208203873 


ElllllllllllllllllllllllNIIIII 


D208203873 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


TPGS 


$36.00 


Printed  by:  CN 


