TX -PAID  UP 


■  NOT5CE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
OR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
^RIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  19th__  day  of  _May  ,  2008,  between  the  Lessor(s) 

James  Harold  Owens  and  Frank  Thompson,  all  here  in  dealing  with  his  sole  and  separate  property    ,  as  Lessor,  whose 

address  is  4508  Cinnamon  Hill  Dr.  Ft.  Worth,  Tx  76133  ,  and  DALE 

PROPERTY  SERVICES,  L.L.C.,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company,  whose  address  is  2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870, 
Dallas,  Texas  75201,  as  Lessee. 

1 .  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  this  Lease,  and  the  covenants  herein 
contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  land  described  hereto  (the  "leased  premises")  in 
Tarrant  County,  Texas  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or 
otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease, 
"oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a 
well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well 
bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly 
excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  The  leased  premises  shall  include  all  strips  and 
gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any 
additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  leased 
premises.  In  the  event  Lessor  owns  any  additional  acreage  than  that  for  which  bonus  was  originally  paid,  Lessee  shall  pay 
additional  bonus  at  a  rate  per  acre  not  less  than  the  rate  per  acre  on  which  bonus  was  originally  paid  when  this  Lease  was 
acquired.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  net  acres  specified 
below,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

0.306  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Blk  7  Lot  5,  of  the  Candleridge  Addition,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth, 
thereof  recorded  in  Volume  399-98  ,  Page  30      ,  of  the  Plat  records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

2.  Term.  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  commercial  paying  quantities  from  the  leased 
premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

Lessor,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of 
this  Lease  for  one  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor 
prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  bonus  consideration  of  $15,000  per  net  mineral  acre  as  calculated  to  the  center  of 
adjoining  streets,  alleys,  and  easements,  and  with  the  extension  to  otherwise  be  on  other  terms  and  conditions  as  granted 
for  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be 
twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's 
credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 
and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five 
percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate 
part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date 
on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more 
wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered 
hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee, 
such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this 
Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced  shall  be  deemed  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a 
period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee, 
then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the 
end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or 
wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise 
being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises 
or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of 
such  operations  or  production.  This  Lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  and  effect  after  the  end  of  its  primary  term 
solely  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  a  longer  period  of  time  than  one  (1)  year,  or  for  shorter  periods  of  time  at 
various  intervals  not  to  exceed  in  the  aggregate  two  (2)  years  in  all. 


It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas 
or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  credit  or  benefit  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction 
for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  or 
marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  to  be  produced  under  the  Lease;  however,  in  the  event  Lessee  determines  in 
good  faith  that  it  can  obtain  a  higher  price  at  a  market  located  outside  of  the  local  market,  and  Lessee  incurs  transportation 
costs  charged  by  an  unaffiliated  interstate  or  intrastate  gas  pipeline  in  order  to  enhance  the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other 
products,  Lessor's  pro  rata  share  of  such  costs  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production.  In  no  event  shall 
Lessor  ever  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than  the  price  to  be  received  by  Lessee.  Lessee  agrees  to  provide  and  make 
available  to  Lessor  upon  written  request  Lessee's  records  maintained  or  utilized  in  connection  with  any  efforts  to  enhance 
the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  be  produced  pursuant  to  and  in  connection  with  this  Lease  together  with  any 
costs  paid  or  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  hereunder. 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency  or  by  check.  Lessee  shall  pay  all  royalties  on  or 
before  within  60  days  succeeding  the  month  of  production;  provided  however,  royalties  on  the  first  month's  production 
from  any  well  shall  not  be  due  and  payable  until  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  from  the  date  of  first  production.  If 
Lessee  shall  fail  to  pay  royalties  as  and  when  required,  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor  interest  at  the  rate  if  one  and  a  half  percent 
(1.5%)  per  month  (but  in  no  event  at  a  rate  greater  than  the  highest  rate  allowed  by  law)  on  the  unpaid  royalties  from  the 
date  such  royalties  were  due  to  be  paid  until  such  royalties  are  actually  paid  in  full.  Initial  bonus  monies  shall  be  paid  to 
Lessor  by  currency  or  check  by  Lessee  upon  Lessee's  receipt  of  Lessor's  executed  lease. 

5.  Continuous  Development  Obligations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  (a  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying 
quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
Section  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in 
force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an 
additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within 
ninety  (90)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  such  cessation  of  all 
production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in 
force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore 
production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or 
other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill 
such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under 
the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated 
drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory 
wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or 
interests  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered 
by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do 
so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil 
well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%),  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  and  forty  (640)  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%);  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well" 
shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment; 
and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of 
first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's 
acreage  shall  be  included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or  more 
instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental 
authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and 
stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such 
revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted 
accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination. 
Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 


2 


7.  Partial  Interests.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate 
in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  Assignment  Clause.  Prior  to  any  assignment  of  this  lease  or  any  rights  thereunder  Lessee  agrees  to  notify  Lessor 
of  the  name  and  address  of  the  proposed  assignee(s)  and  to  obtain  Lessor's  prior  written  consent,  which  consent  shall  not 
be  unreasonably  withheld  or  delayed,  provided  that  assignments  of  working  interests  to  officers,  directors  and  subsidiaries 
of  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.  may  be  made  without  such  consent  so  long  as  the  aggregate  working  interest  in  this 
lease  conveyed  by  all  such  assignments  does  not  exceed  a  ten  percent  (10%)  working  interest.  Every  such  assignment  or 
sublease  which  shall  be  made  without  the  written  consent  of  Lessor  first  had  and  obtained  shall  be  void,  and  although 
made  with  the  written  consent  of  Lessor,  any  such  assignment  or  sublease  shall,  nevertheless,  be  void  unless  it  also 
contains  a  limitation  in  favor  of  Lessor  requiring  that  the  written  consent  of  Lessor  must  be  obtained  prior  to  any  further 
assignment  or  subletting  of  the  rights  of  Lessee  hereunder. 

9.  Vertical  Push  Clause.  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  lands  100'  feet 
below  the  base  of  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  depth  drilled. 

10.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the 
surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to 
geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the  leased  premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600s)  of  the  leased  premises.  Lessee 
shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced 
from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood 
streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  any  lands  pooled  therewith  or  otherwise. 

11.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of 
wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in 
the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill 
sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non- 
electric-powered equipment  in  its  operations,  including  but  not  limited  to  compression  equipment,  Lessee  shall  take 
reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

12.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or 
implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of 
wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or 
orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or 
other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary 
permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory 
market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's 
option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of 
any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted. 

13-  Indemnity.  LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S 
REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  AND  ALL  LIABILITIES, 
CLAIMS,  LOSSES  AND  DEMANDS  FOR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  PERSONAL  INJURY  OR  DEATH,  AND 
EXPENSES,  INCLUDING  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS, 
ARISING  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY  FROM  ACTIONS,  INACTIONS  OR  OCCUPANCY  OF  THE  LEASE 
PREMISES  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  OF  AND  BY  LESSEE  OR  ITS  ASSIGNS  OR  THE  AGENTS, 
EMPLOYEES,  CONTRACTORS  OR  INVITEES  OF  EITHER  OF  THEM. 

14.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

15.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate 
in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute, 
including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance  of 
this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient 
investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  Lessee  shall  not 
require  a  "subordination"  or  other  mortgage  company  approval  or  agreement  before  paying  royalties  to  Lessor  from  a 
well,  if  the  Land  is  not  used  as  a  drill  site  location  and/or  located  directly  above  the  actual  wellbore. 

(6.    Top  Leasing  Permitted.  There  shall  be  no  prohibition  or  limitation  on  top  leasing. 

17.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable, 

1 8.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions 


3 


herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 
enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so 
determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine, 
feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  by  the  person  whose  signature  appears  above  as  Lessor  on  the  /'9 


day  of  /-<f<q 


1  ,01,!tl'»/. 


<■  ( s  *; 
3  is 


2008. 


AARON  MICHAEL  MIHELES 

Notary  P"Wic,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 

November  13,  2011 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  bv  the  person  whose  signature  appears  above  as  Lessor  on  the 
day  of  f^fay  2008. 


JSL 


AARON  MICHAEL  MIRELES 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
November  13,  2011 


NotaryPublic,  State  of  Texas 


4 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS 


TX  75201 


Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


D208207019 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


$28.00 


