


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across 
Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and 
Ecological Scales 


Scale sensitivity and scale effectiveness of 
governance in biodiversity conservation 


National regulatory model of biodiversity policy 


POLAND 


Authors: Matgorzata Grodzinska-Jurczak, Joanna Cent, 
Agata Pietrzyk-Kaszynska, Hajnalka Szentgy6rgyi 


> PENSOFT. 


This report should be cited as: 

Grodzinska-Jurczak M., Cent J., Pietrzyk-Kaszyfska A., Szentgyorgyi H., 2014. Scale sensitivity and 
scale effectiveness of governance in biodiversity conservation. National regulatory model of biodi- 
versity policy in Poland. 41 pp. 


This report has been produced as a part of SCALES WP4 (deliverable D4.2 including five national 
policy reports and a summary) from 2009 to 2011. 


ISBN 978-954-642-728-1 


Contents 


DMEF OGUICEOIN spscinsiessnctnssisceiaderbensnanisissintasia nes paabenseaentaniasuoadasveisesiomessansabueineanissdioanatbeaetsaaneeaaehe 2 
1d Methodology Of the: report: x csce5ic5ei22ccicceetsts ees hess ee os sees 2 
1.2. Perception of the threat and drivers of biodiversity loss in national policy ............cceeeeeeees 3 
1,3::Governance Challenges vs sscissciscsccesaectedspesssssseeusatdencsesscsidel ewdsuncevs veadvedeyecedaecd cxanuasesstasves weusedensaeeks 4 

2. Key trends of regulatory environment over last 15-20 yeal ...........ssssccccccsssssssceecccesssssceeceeeneees 6 
DM PACU MM NS UU ON Geese eas att cas inseam dean ted baa ees Bec deve sae Aad bed cna ked seen Pcamenenadeaseiadeegaieks 6 
2.2, NALUNE CONSEIVAU OM iissctvsasvecevedeccetencsaive neve sens gens dias us execnpueseaaaneessmienevewsdased nakesavnesers euevesspadcesmtncess 7 
2.3. Environmental protection and nature Conservation FUNCS..........cccccccceccessesssssessecaeeeeeeeeeeeeess 10 
2.4. Governance style and trends over the period CxplOred ..........:cccccesssseccecesesseeeeceeessnsneeeceeesenaes 14 
225. CIVIC TAVOIV ONG INE vcs cesiccnceecetientiecesitenas sind senushcs saundenicnxsuecednesesadbemedendunessnxdereduscessncouavsdcledeaivaedetacs 15 

3. Current regulatory regimes 18 
3.1. Site selection and management of protected ALAS ..........ccecceessessssseceeeeceeeeeeceeseeseeeesessssteaaeees 18 

3.1.1. Actors and their roles in the selection of sites for protected area and manage- 
Ment at MUItple IEVEIS: ...5:...cccsccscessessessenssnsscnasedevssdevsesssevssvdondesnsonsactiscesesdssdsvdevssesbertesss 18 
3.1.2. Formal institutions relevant for site selection and management of different types 
OT POURED AIS a csorsscsite tl csncdusininatiin sts wise vac caus dca tasbalgasyendssed dudaunbassuaauskeediaWMaadeanancenioes 19 
3.1.3. Funds and resources for institutions relevant for management of different types 
Ol PNOLECLEd BNC S oejcccasescccscccndasecceionnsadsorcxandxuansaccsanevaaceetiasandasccateeialsesscaneesdeaceemiuanemons 19 
3.1.3.1 The case of Biatowieski National Park enlargement and Biatowieza De- 
VElOPMENt PROS TAM siseciveccceees codsebs vis vasensiseseedeueatiacs sedvnavbaiexbeeesnel cwisads sed taavesiead edeneceeitades 21 
3.1.3.2 Ecological subsidies — an example of civic-municipality initiative in Poland.....22 
SD. 2- MVS SPALeG COMSSNV ATG acicihaccuicsus vem circticnapeds dca nacatincdexataecauncelcs dulce saddest xnaedtnenkecetacnneedessoeenaunécbaepene 23 
3.2.1. Animating ideas in support of improvement Of CONNECTIVITY............cceeeeceeeeseeeeeeeesenees 23 
3.2.2. Actors and their roles at multiple leVelS....... cc ccccccccccescesssessesseaeeceeeeeeeeeeseesesesesssesaees 24 
5.2.3. PONV IMS CVO CING 325 <u otitin ptt vale ca eiataicke aeraeh ane ae cyiauid qxmceed cig ica natportiakeidesbmettiactcnonnpaaces 25 
3.2.4. Funds and resources for integrated CONSErVAtION..........cccccsessscteccesssetteceeeesesteeeeeeeesenaaes 28 
3.2.5. Informal rules ANd PractiCeS.............cccecseessessessecaeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseseeseesseeaeeeeseeeeeseesseeseeeeeaesees 28 
3.3. SCAleS ISSUCS IM TERUNALONY TOBINWOS cis sacesvesinaas dusted ataaaanccveagadmaanchenasadssnnaneanavsacniys mawianiecnasaun’ 29 
3.3.1. The nature conservation in the EU Member States — a role of the EU system?............ 30 
3.3.2. Competition and effectiveness of different protected Areas ...........ceeeececeeesesteeeeeeesenaes 31 
3.3.3. Nature conservation on national, regional and local levels in every day usage............ 33 
3.3.4. Integration and strategic approach to the nature CONSErVAtION .......ccccecceceeeeeeeeeeeeees 34 
3.5.5. INPOFMANOMN GING. RMOWIOO BG iisiicid ccccsneteneravtanccserbeedeacensdcnsner@eanteesseanntbhacmecakuedseatanedenaautes 34 
4 CONCIUSIONS: sss isscssassissisasssissssesesnnsassssscinssionessastiwssnnssnassusndanss bhsdsndisousausi sacenensinsssnansansinsaintiea sons 36 


PICS F ATUL iis sisveedes cocdukuesdestesdsecuncvadwocusduicudtaesateuauudeedeeeuedeuvaa ddesiuicessedavisscaslavaestustanesoucessasteuceeceeucnee 38 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


1. Introduction 


The goal of this report is to contribute to the understanding of the national regulatory model 
of biodiversity conservation in Poland taking into account scale-related issues. The report 
present development of biodiversity governance in Poland until 2011. 


1.1 Methodology of the report 


The report has been developed using a broad range of methodological tools such as desk 
study literature review, focus groups (FGI) and expert interviews. Additionally, information 
was also obtained from the General Directorate of the Environmental Protection (GDEP) 
employees and representatives of local authorities. 


Desk study and literature review comprise of legal acts, various strategies and other public 
documents analysis. It also includes results of research studies and materials gathered from 
the popular science publications as well as articles in newspapers or internet resources. 
Three focus groups were organized at each level of administration (local, regional and na- 
tional). Every FGI lasted approximately 2 hours. Due to limited time, not all the subjects that 
were planned to be discussed were conversed in all of the groups. A short introduction to 
scale issues had been distributed to the participants prior to the discussion. Main assump- 
tions and research questions were presented at the beginning of each focus group meeting. 
The discussions were moderated so that the raised issues and covered problems were rel- 
evant to the research questions. 


Composition and evaluation of conducted FGI: 

Regional level FGI was organized in Krakow on 25" January 2011. In total eight practition- 
ers joined the meeting representing various organizations such as Regional Directorate of 
Environmental Protection[RDEP] (2 individuals); Regional Directorate of the State Forests 
[RDSF], Regional Directorate of Water Management [RDWM]; Babia Gora National Park 
[BgNP]; Institute of Nature Conservation, Polish Academy of Science [PAS]; The Society 
for Earth [TNZ]; Landscape Parks of Matopolska Region [LP]. Scale issues were discussed 
with ease during this group discussion. The discussion provided significant insight into the 
role of different forms of the protected areas in relation to the scale issues and institutional 
interplays among various administrative levels. 


¢ FGI at the local level took place in Zator (municipality in Malopolska region) on 9" 
March 2011. Ten respondents represented the following organizations: Regional Di- 
rectorate of Environmental Protection [RDEP] (2 individuals); Local representative of 
State Forest National Forest Holding [The State Forests]; Local administration (en- 
vironmental departments) [LA] (3); Local Communities Association ,Dolina Karpia” 
[DK]; Foundation ,,Dolina Karpia” (3) [NGO: DK]; The Society for Earth [TNZ]. Explicit 
discussion on scale issues was difficult in this group, as the concept of scale was 
too abstract for most of the participants. The group however, provided good exam- 
ples confirming more general statements on institutional interplay made during the 
regional workshop. Also mismatches between various policies at the local level were 
discussed during this meeting. 


¢ Central level FGI was organized in Warsaw on 25" March 2011. Among six partici- 
pants there were representatives of General Directorate of Environmental Protec- 


tion [GDEP] (2); Directorate General of the State Forests [DGSF]; OTOP (Birdlife 
International Polish National partner) (2); Institute of Nature Conservation, Polish 
Academy of Science [PAS]; WWF Poland; Ministry of Environment [ME]. The dis- 
cussion helped to collect information about each administrative level from the na- 
tional perspective. Many examples of institutional interplay and mismatches that 
are present in nature conservation system were highlighted by the participants, 
including relations between forestry and conservation administration (at each ad- 
ministrative level and across levels), interplay between state and non-state ac- 
tors (both relations of conflict and cooperation), mismatches between goals of 
connectivity and spatial planning policies, the need for enhancing participation in 
managements of Natura 2000 and functioning of funding schemes for manage- 
ment plans. 


¢ As acomplementary part of the research we completed five expert interviews, all 
in June 2011. Each of them lasted approximately one hour. Experts, who were in- 
terviewed, were focused on disciplines related to ecology, nature conservation, and 
sustainable development but in most cases they were not focussed on one particular 
field. The respondents represented various professions such as: architect, water 
engineer, geographer, economist and biologist. Each of them possess a PhD title 
and work in a field of environmental protection or sustainable development. This se- 
lection of respondents allowed a broader perspective on scale-related issues. They 
delivered information and opinions on relations and transfer of knowledge between 
scientific community and practitioners or public institutions. Also scale issues and 
scale concept itself were broadly discussed. The expert interviews provided particu- 
larly good insight into the subjects such as spatial planning, regional connectivity 
and mismatches in nature conservation systems. 


puelod ul japow AJojejnsa/ jeEUOvEN Z'7G 


1.2. Perception of the threat and drivers of biodiversity loss in national policy 


To be able to conduct a detailed analysis of public biodiversity conservation policies, the ba- 
sic requirement is to accurately define not only the state of biodiversity but also the threats 
causing biodiversity loss. The factors influencing the state of biodiversity determine legisla- 
tive regulation and actions undertaken by public institutions. 


According to the Ministry of Environment (2003) the following factors are the main causes 
of biodiversity loss in Poland: 


1. Urbanization: without taking into account the ecological consequences, urbanization 
processes are leading to the disappearance of natural areas and semi-natural habitats, im- 
pairing the functioning and the connectivity of ecosystem; 

Eutrophication, uncontrolled drainage, acidification of soil, chemical pollution, suc- 
cession: all of these factors change natural habitats /biotopes/ecosystems; 


2. Changes in land-use: decrease in traditional farming practices leads to uncontrolled 
succession and changes in landscape structure, through fragmentation or devastation of 
habitats/ecosystems or unification of habitat mosaic; 


3. Anthropogenic pressure: human pressure on problematic species (protected, though 
causing economic conflicts like beaver, cormorant, otter, etc), which limits population 
numbers; 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


4. Overexploitation: certain wild species (e.g.: fungi, herbs, snails, some of the game spe- 
cies) are overexploited, causing disturbances in the ecological equilibrium; 


5. Synantrophication: changes in fauna and flora, synantrophication, introduction of alien 
species (both planned and accidental), causing the elimination of local species due to com- 
petition; 


6. Genetic modification: effect (though this effect is still unclear) of “escapees” of GMO 
species on natural environment. 


A major problem of sustaining biodiversity in Poland is changing agricultural practice. Mech- 
anization of agriculture and creating large monocultures endangers the survival of these 
habitats. To date, there has been no effective action taken to promote sustainable develop- 
ment in agriculture and due to serious financial problems in this sector, protection of natu- 
ral ecosystems connected to traditional farming has been neglected. Additionally, mosaic 
structure of the Polish rural landscape creates good circumstances to increase biodiversity, 
but this is a double-edged weapon. Mainly generalists and ubiquitic species will make use 
of such fragmented habitats, while species highly specialized and preferring the interior of a 
given habitat disappear (Andrzejewski and Weigle 2003, Gtowacinski 2003). 


Sustainable development plans (or plans of sustainable development of community) were 
prepared for a number of rural municipalities/communities; however those rarely consid- 
er biodiversity issues, or support traditional farming (Giordano 2006). Perspectives for im- 
provement depend on better integration of local plans with regional and national plans or 
guidelines, as expertise on biodiversity is often scarce at a local level. 


1.3. Governance challenges 
The Polish Ministry of Environment (2008) described four strategic tasks for 2009 — 2012: 


|. Finishing biodiversity inventory and evaluation of biodiversity in Poland. It shall be a 
basis for finally closing the list of Natura 2000 areas in Poland. 

Il. Implementing National strategy for conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, 
concerning restoration/reclamation of habitats and ecosystems. 

Ill. Developing strategies and program for managing invasive alien species and pro- 
tecting large carnivores. 

IV. Developing ecological corridors. 


These tasks are given in the National Ecological Policy (Polish Ministry of Environment 
2008) that aims to conserve biodiversity, especially since Poland ratified the Convention of 
Biological Diversity established in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Currently the “Strategy for protec- 
tion and sustainable use of biological diversity” is being implemented (2002), which pinpoints 
national priorities for conservation of biological diversity. The Strategy also concentrates on 
species and endemic communities, on categories that are the most characteristic for a given 
region. These are relicts, species threatened with extinction or endangered (Red List), key- 
stone species, utility species or charismatic in the eyes of local communities. These species 
are often relicts of large biocenoses that are left-over of primeval forests. 


The challenge that results from Polish experiences with Natura 2000 implementation is defi- 
nitely the change in governance itself. The approach in site designation has been still strictly 


top-down and only some of many bottom-up initiatives have been successful, such as con- 
sultation schemes applied in Matopolska region and occasionally in cases of particular sites 
elsewhere. Although formal requirements of exchanging information with all stakeholders 
are being fulfilled, the real dialogue in implementing or managing protected areas is still 
something uncommon and exceptional. The biggest governance challenge now is definitely 
improvement and enhancement of dialogue in biodiversity management and creation of 
clear rules, regulations, requirements and procedures of management. Important improve- 
ment in this respect has been made with decentralizing management of Natura 2000 site, 
delegating more responsibilities and capacity to the regional level administration. 


puelod Ul japow AJojejnsas JeUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


2. Key trends of regulatory environment over last 15—20 years 


2.1. Administration 


Since 1991, administration of the nature conservation in Poland had been hierarchical and 
centralized. The main levels of the administrations had been national, regional and local. On 
the national level, environment had been regulated by specialized institutions such as the 
Polish Ministry of the Environment (a former Ministry of the Environmental Protection, until 
1999), while on the lower levels environment was managed by the general public adminis- 
tration institutions and its environmental subunits (Kotonska 2007). Such an organization of 
the nature conservation system has been heavily criticized, mainly due to its dependence 
on the regional authorities and due to the fact that the whole sector became politically pres- 
sured by the current governmental preferences. Implementing Natura 2000 program has 
also faced a variety of problems, particularly during the first years of the program implemen- 
tation. Such problems stemmed from a limited number of an appropriately trained staff and 
not a real chance to increase relevance of the introduction process at the regional level. 
Formerly regional conservation institutions were responsible mainly for areas of landscape 
protection and environmental impact assessments. Natura 2000 implementation expanded 
their responsibilities without allocation of additional staff and financial resources. Important 
organizational changes occurred in 2008 when the General Directorate for Environmental 
Protection (GDEP) was established; the GDEP has 16 regional branches (one in each Pol- 
ish voivodeship), with more independence from national, regional and local administration 
and politics. Together these institutions create vertical national — regional administration 
of nature conservation. The directorates are responsible for environmental impact assess- 
ments, management of natural resources and Natura 2000 network. The main goal of the 
institutional change was to improve time efficiency of procedures concerning regulation 
mentioned above. 


Restructuring and finally establishing a new system of nature conservation over the country, 
GDEP was positively evaluated by all the focus groups respondents. 


“Yes, | would also agree that calling GDEP and RDEP was a very good idea, which improved 
(...) nature conservation system comparing to that operating previously like 5 years earlier. 
Positive changes in the whole system appeared thanks to hiring new, young specialists, well 
educated, and open-minded. Although very competent currently they are overloaded with 
work. A proposal to decrease a number of the staff would be the worst thing which could 
happened nowadays” 


Number of employees in public institutions of nature conservation has always been insuffi- 
cient. Current structures are based on former numbers and structures of institutions. Despite 
rising responsibilities there is only little rise in employment (Kotonska 2007). Along with 
establishing directorates of environmental protection, former parallel structures based on re- 
gional administrations have been closed down (or: reorganized into new structures). To sup- 
port new obligations of the directorates, considerable human resources were shifted from 
local management of land protection into the new institutions. Institutional changes strength- 
en conservation institutions by allowing independence from regional administration, region- 
al development plans and financial resource allocation (The Council of Ministers 2008). A 
drawback of this reorganization is the weakening role of landscape protection areas (land- 
scape parks). Together with the decrease of employees in administration, the responsibility 


and large part of decision making were shifted to the regional and local authorities, which 
might cause more development pressure on the protected landscapes (Wertz 2009). Priority 
given to the implementation of Natura 2000 and fulfilling EU obligations towards nature con- 
servation resulted in too little attention given to the development of effective instruments to 
support landscape protection. Main financial and human resources are allocated to habitat 
and species conservation, with little focus on the landscape protection and conservation. 


Experts interviewed within the SCALES project expressed growing concern about biodiver- 
sity conservation at a landscape level. “/ have got a feeling that landscape degradation is 
much higher that biodiversity degradation in general.” 


The State Forests are responsible for managing timber resources and nature conserva- 
tion in forests (78% of all forest areas in Poland). For the last 10 years the State Forests 
have been implementing changes in management, shifting from strictly economic-oriented 
management (timber production), that was favoured before 1990, towards multi-goal orient- 
ed management, including environmental and recreational uses of forests. Since the late 
1990s new structures of Promotional Forest Complexes (Promocyjne Kompleksy Lesne) 
are being created in order to support new activities and responsibilities, providing trainings 
and education for state forestry employees, as well as conducting general promotion and 
education for various groups of people. Currently there are 19 Complexes, covering 1/8 of 
state forests, approximately 1 million ha (The Council of Ministers 2008). The State Forests 
are also responsible for all Natura 2000 sites designated within forests administrated by this 
institution. Adding Natura 2000 management to responsibilities of The State Forests wasn’t 
accompanied by any additional resources for the institution, neither financial nor personal. 


Biodiversity protection is also included in various activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Development in Poland. An accredited paying agency - the Agency for Restructuring 
and Modernization of Agriculture (ARMA; ARiMR - Agencja Restrykturyzacji i Modernizacji 
Rolnictwa) — was created in 1994 with the aim of supporting agriculture and rural develop- 
ment. It deals with the implementation of instruments co-financed from the European Union 
budget and provides aid from national funds. It cooperates with the Ministry of Agriculture 
and Rural Development and is under supervision of the Ministry of Finance. The structure 
of ARiMR is comprised of three levels - the Headquarters, 16 Regional Offices in each 
voivodeship and 314 Local Offices. ARIMR, among others, conducts The Rural Develop- 
ment Programme for 2007-2013 (and within 2nd axis - Agri-environmental programme). 


2.2. Nature conservation 


Contemporary nature protection includes many types of land protection, the most important 
are: 23 national parks (1% of Polish territory), 1423 nature reserves (0.6 % of territory), 120 
landscape parks (8% of territory), 449 areas of landscape protection (22.5% of territory) 
and Natura 2000 sites (about 21% of territory, 959 sites). Different protected areas overlap, 
especially Natura 2000 sites with other types of land protection (e.g. all national parks are in- 
cluded in Natura 2000), as well as nature reserves with other forms of land protection. In to- 
tal 32.3% of the country is under land protection. The oldest national parks were developed 
in the 1920s and later in the 1940s, while the most recent one was formed in 2001. Over the 
last 20 years the number of sites protected under different forms of nature protection has 
been rising (Fig. 1). From 1990 six new national parks have been developed, 3 new national 
parks and enlargement of one of the existing ones are considered. From 2000 the number of 
nature reserves has changed from 1307 to 1423 (Polish Ministry of the Environment 2009). 


puelod Ul japow AJojejnsay JeUOvEN ZG 


AREA OF SPECIAL NATURE VALUE PROTECTED BY LAW IN POLAND (1985-2008) 











thousand hectares 

















Figure 1. High nature value area protected by law in Poland between 1985 and 2008 (without Natura 2000 sites). 


Surface of SPAs and SClIs on Polish teritory [in thousand ha] 











Figure 2. Surface of SPAs and SCls on Polish territory (in thousand ha) between 2004 and 2009 (based on Natura 
2000 Barometer). The graph represents designation process of the Natura 2000 network, which has been mostly 
completed in 2009. The numbers presented for the year 2009 will not be increasing much more in the next years. 


Designation of “high nature value areas” for biodiversity conservation monitoring in agricul- 
ture and forest areas is currently under consideration. 


The Natura 2000 sites have been selected and designated since 2004. Between the years 
2004 and 2008 Poland was successively sending relevant proposals to the European Com- 
mission. Eventually, Poland submitted in total 959 Natura 2000 sites, covering about 19% of 
Polish territory (Fig. 2). 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


In total, all forms of environmental protection together covers over 32% (10101500 ha) of the 
whole area of the country (Polish Ministry of the Environment 2009). 


Within national parks, the majority (62%) of land is covered by forests. A significant fraction of 
national parks is agriculture land and wasteland (14% each). About % areas of national parks 
in Poland are state-owned, partly due to nationalization of land in the1940s and 1950s. How- 
ever, almost 1/4" of the total area under national park status still lie under individual or com- 
munity private ownership (Tab. 1) and quite a big share in this non-state ownership in national 
parks is not accompanied by participatory management of those areas (Krdlikowska 2007). 


Table 1. National parks in Poland by ownership forms and land use, in 2008, data based on GUS 2008 





puejod ul japow AJojejnsay jeEuOvEN Z7'7G 


Ownership: 
Total in % The State Private and other 
Forest land 62% 96,2% 3,8% 
Agricultural land 14% 53,6% 46,4% 
Woody and bushy land 1% 74,2% 25,8% 
Water 7% 99,3% 0,7% 
Wasteland 14% 64,9% 35,1% 
Other 2% 73,4% 26,6% 
Average 76,9% 23,1% 





The Natura 2000 is the newest network of protected areas in Poland. It differs considerably 
from the previous - traditional Polish system — and it is a complete novelty in managing na- 
ture (Makomaska-Juchiewicz and Tworek 2003, Makomaska-Juchiewicz 2007, Perzanows- 
ka and Grzegorczyk 2009). The protection of Natura 2000 network sites is based on the 
idea of sustainable development, which should reconcile the necessity of preserving the 
continuing existence of species and habitats with the economic and cultural needs of man 
and specific local conditions. According to the guidelines of the Natura 2000 program and its 
national implementation, the Polish authorities must reorganize the system and the method 
of managing natural resources in a relatively short time. The site designation process was 
completed in only 5 years. This concerns (1) a change in the traditional approach to manag- 
ing natural resources (based solely on conservation) to a more modern approach (taking into 
account social aspects), which has been started with the consultation process in Malopolska 
region in 2008, (2) the creation of a system enabling the application of these social aspects 
in practice, that still needs to be developed and (3) the organization of a nature monitoring 
system of the newly created conservation areas. Interest in the fate of Natura 2000 in Poland 
is shared by various stakeholders both professionally connected with nature conservation 
in its broad sense, and institutions and individuals directly affected by the introduction of the 
program. Natura 2000 is also often seen as a much-required improvement of insufficient 
system of “traditional” protected areas (Jermaczek and Pawlaczyk 2004). In comparison to 
other protected areas, Natura 2000 has raised a considerable number of conflicts and social 
problems so far. The land use structure in the Natura 2000 areas features a high proportion 
(varying between regions and countries) of private land, hence it is managed by their owners 
— chiefly farmers (Makomaska-Juchiewicz and Tworek 2003, Makomaska-Juchiewicz 2007), 
but also by a large number of property owners. EU obligations concerning the implementa- 
tion of Natura 2000 initiated important changes in national environmental law (enforcement 
of EIA), administrative structures (introducing General Directorates, reorganizing monitoring) 
and practices of policy implementation in conservation. Currently the site designation has 
been mostly completed (some space has been left for further improvement of the network) 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


and most work focuses on monitoring and developing management plans. The latter is being 
prepared along with a state-wide consultation scheme, consisting of series of meetings with 
relevant stakeholders from every local community (previously most consultations were done 
via written documents). Also it seems to encourage rethinking traditional forms of conserva- 
tion and exploring innovative examples and good practices for conservation. Important and 
necessary changes have not been applied when it comes to concrete policy instruments. Al- 
though agro-environmental programmes for Natura 2000 sites are being implemented, there 
is still a need of creating economic schemes that would either encourage people to support 
nature protection (incentives, subsidies) or compensate lost profits (financial compensations) 
on private lands. So far no such instruments have been implemented yet. There is a potential 
for developing solutions for private lands within management plans, however it is not obliga- 
tory and will depend on decision taken by experts preparing particular plans. 


2.3. Environmental protection and nature conservation funds 


In the last few years, public expenditures on environmental protection in Poland have been 
fluctuating over the same level, between 0.6 and 1.0% of GDP (Fig. 3). Among the most im- 
portant institutions granting environmental protection in Poland the Ministry of Environment, 
National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and EcoFund should 
be enumerated. 


The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (National Feund) 
which, together with the Voivodeship Funds for Environmental Protection, forms the backbone 
of the system for financing environmental protection projects, was founded in 1989. For many 
years this institution has been financially supporting a big range of environmental initiatives. 


The National Fund’s resources are designated mainly for co-funding large national and pan-re- 
gional capital projects for controlling water, air and land pollution. Grants are also allocated 
for tasks related to geology and mining, environmental monitoring, preventing threats to the 
environment, protecting nature and forestry, promoting environmental awareness, protecting 
children against health threats, scientific and research work and for obtaining expert opinions. 
Biodiversity and landscape protection is one of the main areas of interest in the National Fund. 
In 2000 and 2001 financial resources allocated in biodiversity and landscape protection were 
the highest, in comparison with the following years (Fig. 4). Generally, the National Fund pro- 
vides on average about 50% of the value of the project (from 30 to more than 60%). 


EcoFund is on the leading edge among Polish environmental protection funds and is a lead- 
er, along with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, with 
regards to the financial aid provided in the form of non-returnable grants. 


The history of EcoFund dates back to 1991, when the so-called Paris Club (consisted of 
the countries that were creditors of Poland, among others) decided to reduce the Polish 
debt by 50%, provided the remaining part is paid off by 2010. The government of Poland 
proposed that a further 10% of the debt could be allocated for supporting the most urgent 
environmental protection projects. This was the first initiative in the world for allocating a part 
of a government-secured debt for environmental protection purposes (usually referred to 
as “eco-conversion of debts” or “debt-for-environment swap”). The Paris Club accepted the 
Polish proposal, making it generally possible to adopt the mechanism of allocating a part of 
the debts (up to 10%) for the purposes specified in bilateral agreements signed by Poland 
with individual creditor countries. 


ay 
| 




















2 0,25 12 2 : 
NO 

s 3 
£ 3 za 
o 2 ow 
= x F ak = pai 
oo 0,2 4 < oO 
‘iS i= 7) 

2 ° > 
Cte ] 
eb = je) 
2s 5 = 
a2 os & + 
cs : ® 
sf 0,15 Q oO 
cc Q 
£& 7 oxy 
6 s a 
a) f 06 = ie) 

= @ ot 
25 = Oo 
G c = 

S = 
S22 on 4 e s 
26 3 < 
an 
go 2 p o4 3 3 
= § o 
cs 7 
re oO o 
wn wv ° 
2 & 0,05 o ) 
res + 0,2 2 _— 

i: = 
25 3 = 
ve = 
a. a vu 
we g Oo 
° 0 + 1 T T T T T T T T T T T T 0 Rd a 
2 ° a N is) st un wo nN (oe) a ood N faa) st nN rte) nN ioe) a x w 
o a fo) a a a a an fey) a a So So So So So So So So So So — 
= an a a a a a a an a a o So o o So So o So o So =) 
“ a a a a a a a a a a N N N N N N N N N N oO. 

—@—share of expenditures on the protection of landscape and biodiversity in the total expenditures on 
environmental protection [%] 
=—@= share of outlays on fixed assets for environmental protection in GDP [%] 











Figure 3. Public expenditures on environmental protection in Poland in GDP percentage (red line) and share of ex- 
penditures on the protection of landscape and biodiversity in the total expenditures on environmental protection 
in percent (blue line). Data based on GUS 2009. 














140000 - - 100 
= 118040 - 90 
ae 120000 - 
(4 
§ - 80 
2 100000 n 
z | “7m 8 
2 z 
2 -60 8 
2 80000 + 5 
Q — 
5 - 50 3 
Y E 
= 
3 60000 + 2 
$ L 40 
a=] | 
2 
= | L 30 
= 40000 4 
vu 

L 20 

20000 + 
- 10 
0 0 
2000 2001 2003 2004 2005 2007 2008 











Figure 4. Funding for biodiversity and landscape protection projects from National Fund for Environmental Pro- 
tection and Water Management in Poland between 2000 and 2008 (red line) and number of contracts signed each 
year with the National Fund (grey columns). Data based on National Fund’s annual reports. 


Poland received a total amount of about 570 million US dollars for environmental protec- 
tion projects as a result of signing relevant agreements on the debt-for-environment swap 
with the six countries — USA (372 million USD, 10% of the debt), France (66 million USD, 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


1% of the debt), Switzerland (63 million USD, 10% of the debt), Sweden (13 million USD, 
4% of the debt), Italy (32 million USD, 10% of the debt), Norway (27 million USD, 10% of 
the debt). That money, paid in annual tranches from 1992 to 2010, is administered by the 
EcoFund Foundation. The debt-for-environment swap program will be closed in 2010. Apart 
from the receipts from the debt-for-environment-swap scheme, EcoFund also receives mon- 
ey from banking operations and from donations. The EcoFund financially supports projects 
in five areas recognized as priorities - biodiversity conservation is one of these priorities. 


According to the closing report of EcoFund 2010, about 9.9 million € were spent in Poland 
for environmental protection (in 2008 fixed prices, the average value of ECU/€ from the suc- 
cessive years 1996-2009 — 1 EUR=3,9463 PLN). However, the actual financial effect was 
higher — due to cooperation with other environmental funds and engaging beneficiaries’ own 
resources a leveraging effect was achieved. Engagement of the debt-for-environment swap 
financing in 1993-2008 resulted in environmental investments amounting to 3.3 billion € (Re- 
port 2010). Without creating the debt-for-environment swap mechanism collecting such an 
amount of financing from other sources would have been very difficult or impossible, mostly 
due to shortages of financial resources in the transformation period. 


Since 2004, another source of money for environment and nature protection has been the 
Rural Development Program. RDP 2004-2006 was the largest program supporting agricul- 
ture and rural areas development in Poland based on EU funds after Polish accession to 
the EU. 3592. 4 million euro was planned for the program and 3590.6 million spent (99.95% 
efficiency). Almost 2.9 billion (about 80%) came from the EU budget. The program was a 
counterpart for RDP 2000-2006 in EU 15 (co-called ‘old’ members). According to ex post 
evaluation, strategic goals of RDP 2004-2007 (improving the competitiveness of the agro- 
food economy and sustainable development of rural areas) were accomplished. 


The second phase of the program, RDP for 2007-2013, provides resources of 17 billion euro 
(in which 13 billion come from the EU budget and 4 billion from the Polish budget). The two 
phases differ — among other things - in the set of packages in agro-environmental schemes 
(Tab. 2). During the RDP 2004-2007 it was possible to ask for increased payments (+20%) 
for the “Packages in the Natura 2000 site”, while in RDP 2007-2013 there is a special pack- 
age for “Protection of endangered species and habitats on Natura 2000 sites”. 


Table 2. Packages available under agri-environmental schemes in RDP first and second phase/edition in Poland 





Agri-environmental schemes in RDP 2004-2006 Agri-environmental schemes in RDP 2007-2013 








Sustainable agriculture Sustainable agriculture 
Maintenance of extensive meadows Ecological agriculture 
Maintenance of extensive pastures Extensive permanent grassland 





Protection of endangered species and habitats outside 
Natura 2000 sites 

Protection of endangered species and habitats on 
Natura 2000 sites 

Conservation of endangered plant genetic resources 
in agriculture 


Creating buffer zones 





Protection of local breeds of domestic animals 





Soil and water protection 





Conservation of endangered animal genetic resources 


Ecological agriculture ; 
in agriculture 





Soil and water protection 
Buffer zones 

















ay 
| 


Among 8 actions within RDP 2004-2006, one was dedicated to agri-environmental projects 
and (among others) biodiversity protection (Action 4: “Support for agri-environment projects 
and for animal welfare improvement”). By implementing agri-environmental program, RDP 
2004-2006 enabled the improvement of the natural environment. Financial support under 
agri-environmental program covered about 1.4 million hectares (9% of the general surface 
of agrarian lands in Poland), 78 thousand farmers participated and more than 83 thousand 
projects were realized. The number of granted applications rose with time (Fig. 5). In gener- 
al, about 3.5 billion euro has been spent in RDP 2004-2006. 





25000 > 


21060 
—— ecological agriculture 














20000 - 
soil and water protection 


t= maintenance of extensive 
meadows 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsay jeEUOvEN Z'7G 


15000 + 


—<— maintenance of extensive 
pastures 


—— sustainable agriculture 


—®—creating buffer zones 


5929 
-—-—= protection of local breeds 
of domestic animals 


2004 2005 2006 2007 











Figure 5. Number of granted applications by the declared package between 2004 and 2007 in Poland. Data from 
ARMA. 


The actual impact of agri-environmental schemes on biodiversity conservation in Poland is 
questioned by the respondents: 


“Theoretically these programs are operating, but practically they are not very effective, not 
to mention that their effectiveness has never been formally evaluated, and it is probably 
impossible to get such information on how these programs work. As far as the acreage, the 
programs cover a very limited area, so practically their effect cannot have any significant im- 
pact. So, although we have potential tools, realistically speaking financial resources stream 
available which definitely might have been allocated for needed activities, but practically it is 
not. On the contrary it is used for nonsensical tasks. Such a system does not face the most 
crucial problems of agri-landscape - realistically covering 60% of the total country surface 
— namely intensification. And this has happening in the time when a need for the food has 
decreased.” 


There has been also an increasing use of European funding for nature conservation. Under 
the first edition of the LIFE Program 23 projects were financed, among these four focused 
on environmental innovation, 15 on nature conservation, one on capacity building and three 
on Information and Communication. Total funds allocated to the projects amounted to 50.4 
million euro, of which 28.7 million euro was contributed by the European Union. In the sub- 
sequent edition of the LIFE program (so called — LIFE+) 17 LIFE+ projects in Poland were 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


approved: three under the LIFE+ Environment Policy and Governance component, 11 under 
the LIFE+ Nature and Biodiversity component and three under the LIFE+ Information and 
Communication component. (http://ec.europa.eu/environment/life/countries/poland.html) 


2.4. Governance style and trends over the period explored 


At the end of communistic period, Poland, along with USSR and GDR had been one of the 
most polluted countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Former environmental law was not 
obeyed, economy and social interests were considered superior to environmental concerns. 
Capital expenditure in environmental protection sector were between 0.3-0.5% of domestic 
product, while estimated material losses of society, caused by pollutions, were between 
5-10% of domestic product. Starting from 1989, an important series of changes in law and 
practices have been implemented, especially concerning rigidity of regulations. 


1991: Nature Protection Inspection Act (Ustawa o Inspeckcji Ochrony Srodowiska Dz. U. z 
2007 r. Nr 44, poz. 287). 


* 1991: First State Ecological Policy (Polityka Ekologiczna Panstwa) — first acknowl- 
edge of sustainable development rules. 

¢ 1991: Establishing system for ecological funding on national and regional levels. 

* 1992: Establishing of Polish EcoFund (EkoFundusz) — financial institution utilizing 
debt reductions obtained by Poland. 

¢ Inthe late ‘90s there was rapid drop in environmental improvements achieved annu- 
ally, as the simplest negligence and failures had been corrected. In the late ’90s re- 
gional inspectorates of environment were united with regional administration, which 
considerably reduced its power and potential influence. 

* 1999: Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry were 
transformed into Ministry of Environment. From October 1999 till July 2010 there 
have been 7 changes in the heads of the Ministry and 8 different Ministers. 

¢ 2000: Access to Information about Environment and its Protection and Environmen- 
tal Impact Assesments Act (Ustrawa o dostepie do informacji 0 Srodowisku i jego 
ochronie oraz 0 ocenach oddziatywania na srodowisko Dz.U.2000.109.1157 

* 2001: EnvironmentProtectionAct(Ustawao Ochronie Srodowiska Dz.U.2001.62.627) 

¢ 2004: Nature Conservation Act (Ustawa o Ochronie Przyrody (Dz.U.2004.92.880) 
that replaced the act from 1991. The new act introduced two forms of authorities in 
nature conservation: administration and “consultative organs” — councils of nature 
conservation. Quickly after introducing the new law, it has proved to be inconsistent 
with EU regulations compulsory for Poland after accession in May 2004, especially 
causing problems for Natura 2000 implementation, starting a few-years long confu- 
sion about institutional responsibilities for its implementation (Kotonska 2007). 

¢ 2008: Law on availability of information about environment and its protection, pub- 
lic participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessment 
(Dz.U. 2008.199.1227) together with the new law on environmental protection (Dz.U. 
2008.25.150). The new law adapted national regulations to EU law and obligations 
within its programs. Also, one of the main goals of the law was the improvement of 
time-efficiency of environmental impact assessments. 

In recent years a number of policy documents have been issued; they clearly indicate the 
need for conservation of Poland’s natural heritage. The most important include the National 
Environmental Policy of 1991 and its continuation for subsequent planning periods (// Na- 


ay 
| 


tional Environmental Policy of 2001, National Environmental Policy for 2003-2006 including 
Perspectives for Years 2007-2010, the National Environmental Policy for 2009-2012 includ- 
ing Perspectives till Year 2016 draft adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2008). 
Other strategic documents were also adopted (Polish Ministry of the Environment 2009). 


Poland made commitments under a number of conventions and international agreements 
regulating the principles of the protection of selected elements of the natural environment 
(Polish Ministry of Environment 2003, Tworek 2007). The most important ones are: 


* The Convention on Biological Diversity; 

* The Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural 
Heritage (the Paris Convention), ratified in 1976 (Official Journal of the Laws No 
32, Item 190); 

¢ The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, especially as Waterfowl 
Habitat (the Ramsar Convention), ratified in 1978 (Official Journal of the Laws No 7, 
Item 124, as amended); 

¢ The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and 
Flora (the Washington Convention), ratified in 1989 (Official Journal of the Laws of 
1991, No 27, Item 112, as amended); 

¢ The Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (the 
Berne Convention), ratified in 1995 (Official Journal of the Laws of 1996, No 58, 
Item 263, as amended. ); 

* The Agreement on the Conservation of Small Cetaceans in the Baltic and North 
Seas; ratified in 1995 (Official Journal of the Laws of 1999, No 96, Item 1108); 

* The Agreement on the Conservation of Bats in Europe, ratified in 1996 (Official Jour- 
nal of the Laws of 1999, No 96, Item 1112); 

¢ The Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (the Bonn 
Convention), ratified in 1996 r.( Official Journal of the Laws of 2003, No 2, Item 17); 

¢ The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea (the 
Helsinki Convention), ratified in 1999 (Official Journal of the Laws of 2000, No 28, 
Item 346); 

* The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity, rati- 
fied in 2003 (Official Journal of the Laws of 2004, No 216, Item 2201); 

¢« The European Landscape Convention, ratified in 2004 (Official Journal of the Laws 
of 2006, No 14, Item 98); 

¢ The Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the 
Carpathians, ratified in 2006 (Official Journal of the Laws of 2007, No 96, Item 634). 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsai jeuOvEN Z7'7G 


2.5. Civic involvement 


Civic involvement in Polish nature conservation manifests mostly in activity of non-govern- 
mental organizations. NGO in environmental conservation has a long history in Poland. It 
consists of several state-wide organizations and large number of regional and local asso- 
ciations and initiatives. Cooperation with public administration in conservation occurs on 
the ground of biodiversity monitoring and species protection (most important: birds, bats, 
wolves, and lynx). In the early ‘90s and in the previous system, public institutions used to 
cooperate mostly with larger, country-wide NGOs. During the last few years it has changed, 
mostly due to debates and conflicts over Natura 2000, where local NGOs also played an 
important role, both cooperating and opposing the governmental actions (Glinski 1996, Cent 
at al. 2007). 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


There have been examples of informal management of protected areas by NGOs. Sever- 
al areas have been bought by one of the Polish environmental NGOs (OTOP — section of 
Birdlife International) and turned into protected bird areas (nature reserves). However, the 
most significant activities of NGOs concerns implementation of Natura 2000. Non-govern- 
mental organizations have been actively involved from the outset in the whole process of 
implementing the Natura 2000 program in Poland, led by scientific institutions instructed by 
the Ministry of the Environment. Representatives of the NGOs recognized the need to com- 
plete the list of species and habitats named in the annexes of the Habitats Directive and the 
Birds Directive and took part in the preparation of a proposal for its extension and a proposal 
of sites to be included in the Polish part of the network, to include the additional species and 
habitats (Baranowski 2003). This set of additional areas prepared by NGOs, known as the 
“Shadow list”, was sent to the EU Commission (Kepel 2006). The Commission supported 
this action, in the anticipation that the Polish government would extend its proposal to in- 
clude all those sites that were previously deleted from this list (Szymczuk 2006). Despite 
this, the Shadow List was not directly implemented, but the final list of areas proposed by 
the state was based on this proposition. 


The involvement of non-governmental organizations in the Natura 2000 program is also 
apparent in their attempts to inform the public, for example, by addressing the issue on their 
websites and in their own publications. Another important aspect is the almost immediate in- 
tervention of non-governmental organizations in situations where plans in some way threat- 
en species or habitats included in the program. The intervention takes on different forms 
depending on the importance of the investment, from articles in the press to petitions to the 
European Commission (Babiasz et al., 2006; Bohdan, 2006; Bzoma, 2006; Chojnowski, 
2006). Making use of the potential of non-governmental organizations in carrying out moni- 
toring of these sites is very important, particularly for the bird areas (Cent at al 2007). 


Involvement of citizens other than NGOs, its supporters and volunteers, in conservation is 
marginal. Citizens can be involved in protests and conflicts over extension or designation 
of protected sites, however there is no tradition of participatory management in Poland 
(Grodzinska-Jurczak and Cent 2011). Quality of public consultation of different decisions 
and processes in environmental protection in Poland is criticized (WWF 2007). Currently 
there are discussions on the need of participatory processes in National Park manage- 
ment, yet not followed by action (Terlecka and Gorecki 1998, Partyka and Zétciak 2005, 
Krolikowska 2007). 


The first systematic public consultation scheme concerning designation of protected sites 
started in the Malopolska region in 2008. Primarily it was aimed at gaining public opinion on 
the sites selected by the experts at their municipalities, and then was broadened to the in- 
clusion of local communities into development of conservation plans for each site separately 
(Cent at al. 2010). Very good experiences achieved practically from the very beginning of the 
consultation scheme were paralleled by gaining detailed information on the local conflicts 
over Natura 2000. This resulted in a growing importance of consultation activities undertak- 
en by conservation institutions. Since then public consultation organized as open meetings 
and the establishment of local cooperation groups of various stakeholders (experts, local 
authorities, NGOs, citizens) became obligatory during the development of management 
plans for Natura 2000 sites. From 2009 the Polish Ministry of Environment has conducted a 
broad, systematic process of consultations and negotiations with local societies, stakehold- 
ers and authorities concerning expanding borders of Biatowieza National Forest. 


=y 
| 


2.6. Future 
Key policy trends, according to National Ecological Policy (Polish Ministry of Environment 2008): 


* Improving sustainable development 
¢ Adapting to climate change 
¢ Biodiversity conservation 


Implementation of the National Ecological Policy meets a number of challenges. Weak com- 
munication between governmental organizations, NGOs and the local communities causes 
serious problems in the implementation of these tasks, which has been especially trouble- 
some during the early stages of of Natura 2000 designation. Socio-economic priorities of 
residents often conflict with the nature conservation task, or at least they are commonly per- 
ceived to do so. The regions mainly responsible for the existence of enclosures with higher 
diversity are also the poorest, due to less effective traditional farming. In such situations 
nature conservation confronts economical reasoning. 


Implementation of Natura 2000 network is also a vexed question, due to unclear criteria of 
what exactly “protection” means in case of such form of nature protection. Until now, dia- 
logues were undertaken only for a few designated sites in the very last stage of designation 
process. Natura 2000 itself gained bad publicity in Poland due to infamous and vastly critical 
press over Rospuda Valley conflict. During the next few years (1 to 6 depending on a giv- 
en site), Poland should develop conservation and management plans/strategies for Natura 
2000 areas (Polish Ministry of Environment 2008). 


There are rough estimations that in order to meet all the EU obligations concerning envi- 
ronmental protection, budget for this sector should be twice to three times higher than the 
current one, which cannot be expected. Expenditures on research projects and eco-innova- 
tions, as well as on environmental education and support for public participation are needed. 
It is predicted that expenditures on environmental protection for years 2013-2016 would 
be 45% in private, 38% in public (national) and in 17% from abroad (EU, Norwegian Finan- 
cial Mechanism among others) (Polish Ministry of the Environment 2008). Predicted private 
funds consist mainly of investors’ input to eco-innovation, implementing (either voluntary or 
obligatory) environmental standards, e.g. considering recycling. There are opinions however 
that the share of costs covered by private actors is overestimated. Experiences from previ- 
ous periods (2003-2006) show that expenditure on environmental protection is decreasing. 
Public funds for the conservation of biodiversity and landscape decreased by 45% between 
2003 and 2006 (Council of Ministries 2008). 


puelod Ul japow AJojejnsas JeEUOvEN ZG 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


3. Current regulatory regimes 


3.1. Site selection and management of protected areas 


3.1.1. Actors and their roles in the selection of sites for protected area and man- 
agement at multiple levels 


Amongst state actors taking part in site selection and management of protected areas in Po- 
land, three main levels can be pinpointed: national, regional and local. At the national level 
there are two main institutions responsible for protected areas — the Ministry of Environment 
and the General Directorate for Environmental Protection (GDEP). 


The GDEP is responsible for nature conservation — it manages the conservation of protected 
species, afforestation, green areas and protected sites. One of the main aims of the GDEP is to 
manage the Natura 2000 network in Poland. Some of the other nature conservation forms are 
also under GDEP supervision. The GDEP is a unit responsible for the environmental impact 
assessment procedure - it supervises the EIA procedures and their consistency. The Ministry is 
responsible for environmental protection and the general environmental policy, and also reserves 
the right to create or liquidate national parks. The Ministry has its official Advisory Bodies consist- 
ing of experts and scientists. Among 12 Advisory Bodies there are: The State Council for Nature 
Conservation, The State Council for Environmental Protection, The Forestry Council, The Com- 
mission for Mineral Resources, The Commission on Genetically Modified Organisms and others. 


At a regional level the major role in managing protected sites is given to the regional units 
of GDEP — in each of 16 voivodeships there is a RDEP. RDEPs are responsible, in practice, 
for the designation of Natura 2000 sites as well as some of the other protected area forms, 
in addition to preparing managements plans for Natura 2000 sites. Regional authorities 
(voivodeships councils) participate in the nature conservation system by creating landscape 
parks and protected landscape areas. Some scientific units can be seen as a part of regional 
level,for example the Institute for Nature Conservation (Polish Academy of Science) is a unit 
responsible for scientific basis of designation and management of Natura 2000 sites. The 
Institute cooperates closely with REDPs. 


At the local level, authorities still have responsibilities for protected sites, albeit with a small- 
er amount of influence. Local authorities (municipal councils) are asked for approval or dis- 
approval during the process of designation of protected areas. Within the borough council's 
responsibilities is also the creation of small, local, less restrictive nature conservation forms. 
Communication between national authorities and the local ones is rather poor. A consul- 
tation process is required by the Nature Protection Act, but its form is reduced to a formal 
request for opinion, which can be then easily rejected. 


Among non-state actors, it is mostly NGOs that have the opportunity to influence the pro- 
cess of designating and managing protected areas. There are several NGOs in Poland that 
work intensively on biodiversity conservation. The most active group of 4 NGOs, who cre- 
ated the Shadow List of Natura 2000 sites, were: WWF Poland, OTOP (member of BirdLife 
International), and Polish Association for Nature Conservation ‘Salamandra’ and Klub Przy- 
rodnikéw (Naturalists’ Club). NGOs work on national as well as on a very local level. Most 
of them however are concentrated on local actions and only participate in the process of 
selecting smaller protected sites which are of less importance. 


—y 
| 


3.1.2. Formal institutions relevant for site selection and management of different 
types of protected areas 


The main institution responsible for selecting and managing protected sites since November 
2008, is the General Directorate for Environmental Protection (GDEP) and its regional units 
(RDEP). However, national parks are directly supervised by the Ministry of Environment. 
The less important forms (smaller, less restrictive), are supervised by the lowest adminis- 
trative levels (Tab. 3). Management of protected sites created on the basis of international 
agreements (Bern Convention and Ramsar Convention among others) is also the responsi- 
bility of GDEP. 


Table 3. The institutions responsible for creation and management of each form of nature conservation in Poland. 





NP manager under the direct supervi- 
sion of the Ministry of Environment 





regulation of the Council of Ministers 


puejOd Ul jJapowW AsoJejnsad jeUOveN Z' vd 


Regional Directorate for Environmental 


Protection (RDEP) Beer 


: : : ark manager (+voivodeships councils 
relevant voivodeships councils P ger ( P 


acceptance) 
relevant voivodeships councils RDEP 
formally Ministry of Environment, the RDEP coordination 


project is prepared by General Director- | (cooperation with GDEP), exceptional- 
ate for Environmental Protection (GDEP) ly — The State Forests, NP authorities 


relevant municipal council RDEP, Ministry or municipality 








3.1.3. Funds and resources for institutions relevant for management of different 
types of protected areas 


Founded in 1989, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management 
together with the Voivodeship Funds for Environmental Protection is one of the most impor- 
tant parts of the system for financing environmental protection projects in Poland. 


The National Fund operates in accordance with the Environmental Protection Law; it financ- 
es tasks relating to environmental protection and water management from its own funds and 
from the EU funds. It is the largest institution in Poland that cooperates with international 
financial partners and handles foreign funds designated for environmental protection. 


The National Fund revenues mainly come from fees paid for use of the environment for 
economic activity and penalties paid for violation of the environmental law. Money from NF 
are mainly designated for co-funding large national and pan-regional capital projects for 
controlling water, air and land pollution. Biodiversity and landscape protection is one of pri- 
ority programs financed from Polish funds. The National Fund coordinates also funds such 
as LIFE+ projects or EEA and Norway Grants. 


An extremely important source of funds for environmental protection and nature conserva- 
tion is the Operational Programme of Infrastructure and Environment (OPI&E). The man- 
agement structure of OPI&E activities is illustrated in Table 4. 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


Table 4. The management structure of the Operational Programme Infrastructure and Environment in Poland, with 
chosen priority axes. 








Managing ‘ Priority ee rere 
select Intermediate body nes Implementing institution 
Ministry of Ministry of the Environment | | and II National Fund for Environmental Protection and 
Regional De- | Department of the «Infrastruc- Water Management 
velopment ture and Environment Opera- and 
tional Programme» the Voivodeship Funds for Environmental Pro- 


tection 





Ill and IV National Fund for Environmental Protection and 
Water Management 














V Coordination Centre for Environmental Projects 
Vi- VIII The Centre for EU Transport Projects 
IX National Fund for Environmental Protection and 
Water Management 
and 
Institute for Fuels and Renewable Energy 
Xx Institute for Fuels and Renewable Energy 
and 

















The Oil and Gas Institute 





The fifth priority axis is the most important for nature and biodiversity conservation, as it is 
‘Nature conservation and promotion of ecological awareness’. About 105.6 billion euro has 
been provided for action within this axis. During the next few years preparation of 406 man- 
agement plans for Natura 2000 sites will be funded through this program. 


The Coordination Center for Environmental Projects is a unit that was established on the 1* 
of November, 2006 on the basis of Decision 73 (from 31% Oct. 2006) of Directorate General 
of the State Forests [DGSF]. The Center acts as an institution implementing priority axis V — 
‘Nature protection and promotion of ecological awareness’ of the operational programme 
“Infrastructure and Environment”. Furthermore, its tasks include implementation of activities 
resulting from the drafted regulation on greenhouse gas emissions reduction as well as sup- 
porting innovativeness in wood industry and forestry contractors sector. 


LIFE and LIFE + programs (see above in chapter 2.3.) are often regarded as an important 
source of funding to protect areas in Poland, however they cannot be perceived as a sys- 
tematic solution for sponsoring conservation activities and management over the country. 


“To develop appropriate management plans for each individual Natura 2000 site, a certain 
amount of money is required, not just 60 000 PLN (15 000 EURO) like in the case of Biatow- 
ieza National Park extension (...). We think that everything will be solved by LIFE+ funding. 
But LIFE+ is not a comprehensive Program. It can be awarded or not depending on the qual- 
ity of application. Those who apply vary, so do the projects. What’s more even if awarded 
they do not cover the whole country as some regions are more other less active in gathering 
additional funding, which the LIFE+ is”. 


“Another example: Warmia-Mazury Voivodship has not included any tasks towards biodi- 
versity protection planned into their regional plan. So practically they have not allocated any 
funding for that purpose but they did apply for LIFE+ program. As far as | know Pomorze 
Voivodship did the same. It is simply unbelievable! Especially being so pressurized to com- 
plete these tasks, having in mind resources to be given for the highway infrastructure...” 


Another institution that has a big influence on financing environmental protection in Poland 
is Bank Ochrony Srodowiska (BOS). It’s a commercial bank established in 1991 with a main 
aim of financing environmental protection projects. For years Bank Ochrony Srodowiska 
S.A. has been actively engaged in financing pro-ecological projects. BOS offers preferential, 
low-interest loans for projects related to environmental protection and business develop- 
ment at the same time. In recent years — primarily due to completion of tasks credited by 
BOS S.A. — Poland has contributed to the reduction of dust emissions, increased the capac- 
ity of wastewater treatment plants and the length of sewage systems, and the Bank has also 
supported projects related to recycling and to generation of power from renewable sources. 


3.1.3.1 The case of Biatowieski National Park enlargement and Biatowieza Develop- 
ment Program 


Created in 1932, Biatowieski National Park (BNP) is one of the oldest national parks in 
Europe. BNP is situated on the Polish-Belarus border and covers more than 10 thousands 
hectares of a well-preserved primeval forest of the Polish part of the Biatowieza Forest. In 
1992, along with the Belarusian part, it was registered as UNESCO World Heritage Site, 
forming one of the few transboundary World Heritage Sites. Biatowieski NP is famous not 
only for its primeval forest and woodland but also for its wisent population. Wisent (Bison 
bonasus bonasu) almost became extinct in this part of Europe but the Biatowieza population 
eventually recovered mainly due to individual breeding farms. Then, based on the Biatow- 
ieza population, wisent was reintroduced to a few other Eastern European countries. 


Over the previous two decades or so, there has been a continuous struggle between forestry 
and nature conservation organizations at Biatowieza Forest areas. Wood industry dominates 
some parts of the forest. As a response to a wood overexploitation in this area, in the mid- 
90s a number of Polish and international ECO-NGOs started to intensively promote a need 
of Biatowieski National Park enlargement. In 1998 it eventually resulted in development and 
implementation of a project called ‘Contract for Biatowieza Forest’. The project proposed en- 
largement of the NP until the year 2000 based on financial support from the governmental. 
What was unique about the national policy was that half of the donation (4 million EURO) 
was given directly to the local communities to be invested according to their own local needs. 
Although such a scenario seemed to be attractive to the local communities, the majority of 
inhabitants definitely protested against the project. Disputes and complaints took so much 
time that state budget and nature conservation legal requirements changed. Few years later 
in 2001, the project of the Biatowieza National Park enlargement was eventually suspended. 


Although there was no local support for the project, the Polish Ministry of the Environment 
decided to restart the project. In 2009 a new governmental - Biatowieza Development Pro- 
gram (BDP) was initiated. Contrary to the previous policy, it was focused more on attracting 
the local communities to the project and trying to integrate them into realization of the follow- 
ing tasks. The program itself started from a series of meetings and public consultations ad- 
dressed to the local authorities and inhabitants. The discussions concerned proposed bor- 
ders of the enlarged Biatowieza National Park as well as potential investments and projects 
the local governments consider to be needed in their communities. Although two variants of 
the park enlargement were proposed by the Ministry, none of them were fully supported by 
the local authorities. Eventually, the third presented variant was accepted. 


The main aims of the BDP are to enlarge the PN by an additional 20-25 thousands hectares 
and to financially support the communities of the region. The budget of the whole duration 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsay JeEUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


of the program (2010-14) is quite large, amounting to 25 million Euros (compared to the 
average budget of the community in this region which ranges between 1-2 million EURO). 
Attitudes of the local governments to the Ministry scenario seem to have changed over time. 
So far, about 80 development projects for 9 communities have been developed and eventu- 
ally accepted. They vary in their nature, comprising of tourism development (e.g. promotion 
of hiking, biking and canoeing paths, supporting municipal tourist information centres), sew- 
age system and municipal waste management improvement, modernization of buildings, 
support for regional architecture and others. 


Parallel to BDP, the Ministry launched the project called Sustainable development of the 
Bialowieza Forest region that is also dedicated to the local communities and municipalities. 
The project offers concessional loans and grants. 


3.1.3.2 Ecological subsidies — an example of civic-municipality initiative in Poland 


The idea of ecological subsidies for communities living in boroughs included in various forms of 
protected areas (mainly N2000) was brought up by many local authorities for the last years or 
so. Subsidies should be paid to the municipalities from the central national budget. The need 
for and principles of the subsidies is still being discussed. A variety of compensation methods, 
as well as legal and practical aspects of such a proposal was formulated by representatives of 
the Union of Rural Communes of the Republic. It was intensively consulted and discussed by 
various groups of actors such local politicians, scientists, respective ministries and representa- 
tives of General Directorate of Environmental Protection (GDEP) during two conferences (April 
2010 at IRWiIR PAN hittp:/Awww.irwirpan.waw.pl/index.php?option=com_content&view=arti- 
cle&id=337%3Awnioski-z-dyskusji&catid=49&ltemid=52&lang=pl; June 2011 at GDEP). 


As a system of ecological subsidies, the Union proposes considering the setting up a type 
of ecological fund supporting development and compensation of transaction costs for the 
communities living in the protected areas. A final version of the proposal is being refined 
now, and although its’ authors seem to be open to various solutions, no further details are 
available to the public at the moment. 


Whilst preliminary conclusion from the last conference and stakeholders forum held in 2010 
(April 2010, IRWiR PAN) was not favourable to the proposal of the subvention system, it re- 
ceived a lot of attention among various actors. The most active and interested parties in work 
on this initiative are those local governments whose boroughs are included into Natura 2000 
Network. There are more than 100 boroughs advocating for the project, all unified in The Un- 
ion of Rural Communes of the Republic of Poland. Besides working on the text of the civic act 
itself, leaders of this project have been popularizing it and engaging a number of volunteers, 
local, regional and central politicians, and scientists into the project. Lately, the proposal has 
been discussed with GDEP and members of the Polish Parliament. Development of the pro- 
posal, submitted to Parliament as a civic initiative, is still in progress (oral information). The 
Union representatives claim that GDEP is very much interested and would definitely back their 
proposal, although unofficial information gathered from the lower officer of GDEP contradicted 
such a statement. It would be however be the case that any kind of agreement between the 
Union and GDEP was made at the high level of coordination whereas the information was 
taken from a lower officer of the institution who was not necessarily informed about the project. 


As stated above, a final version of the civic act is being developed. Most criticism from those 
not supporting the subsidies system are that: (1) the idea of the mechanism is too simplistic, 


(2) does not consider how the conservation system would potentially benefit from the estab- 
lished fund and (3) the relationship between decreasing value of land and private or munici- 
pal ownership rights was not well proved (IRWiR PAN 2011). Those who support a proposal 
of any subventions or other types of financial compensations underline hidden costs of the 
N2000 networks bore by the municipalities. Recent analysis shows that Poland in com- 
parison to other EU Member States has the lowest cost rate of sustaining N2000 sites per 
hectare. EU estimated mean cost equals approximately 6 billion euro annually, with 63 euro 
per hectare (e.g. Cyprus spent much more 900 euro). Poland spent no more than 115 billion 
euro each year, and 14 euro per hectare while the real costs of the network are significantly 
higher, approximately 400 billion euro annually. Additionally Poland implements N2000 in a 
more restrictive and complicated way than majority of other EU Member States. The system 
the Polish government selected is based on extended bureaucracy and costs, including for 
example obligatory development of detailed management plans for each Natura 2000 site, 
which in fact seems to be irrational (Borttumiak and Zagorski 2011). 


Although the majority of the local governments are not satisfied with the way the nature 
conservation system operates in Poland, there are also examples of communities already 
benefiting from the protected areas and from N2000 sites. For example, in Biebrza National 
Park it has become more and more popular for the farmers to lease land from the Park and 
to apply for agri-environmental schemes (approx. 50 agreements established by 2011). In 
such cases leased land is still under protection, the scheme is applied in cases where some 
forms of farming activities, such as mowing, are allowed and considered as desirable. In the 
rural eastern part of Poland (so called ,Green Lungs”) 29% of farmers consider inclusion of 
their land into N2000 as desirable, mainly because of the availability of agri-environmental 
schemes, and another 14% sees it as an opportunity for themselves. Only 9% of farmers 
claim that N2000 causes limitations to their personal development. Estimations made by 
scientists states that in the region at least half of farms will be abandoned due to lack of 
successors in the future (Borttumiak and Ktodzinski 2011). 


3.2. Integrated conservation 
3.2.1. Animating ideas in support of improvement of connectivity 


Ecological connectivity in Poland continues to be, in the opinion of some experts, relatively 
high, especially when comparing to other EU-15 countries. This is mainly due to a relatively 
poor road infrastructure over the country rather than successful nature conservation poli- 
cies. Connectivity is regulated mainly within the biodiversity protection sector and spatial 
planning regulations, wherein general local implementation and plans are more powerful by 
law than those at regional or national levels. However, more progress in ensuring connec- 
tivity has been done on the regional and national levels than locally. In Polish regulations, 
connectivity is included in the Nature Conservation Act, Law on access of information about 
environment and its protection, and environmental impact assessment. It will be also includ- 
ed in the national strategy on spatial planning for 2009 to 2033 (in preparation) and in the 
protection plans for Natura 2000 sites. 


Apart from state regulations, a bottom-up initiative on developing the concept of TEWN 
(Trans European Wildlife Network) for Central and Eastern Europe was undertaken by Mam- 
mal Research Institute at the Polish Academy of Science and Association for Nature “Wolf” 
(NGO) (Schwaderer 2009). The goal of the network is to preserve the less fragmented habi- 
tats in Europe, threatened especially by developing road infrastructure, by developing a sys- 


puejod ul japow AJojejn3ay jeEUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


tem of ecological corridors and improving connectivity criteria in assessing environmental 
impacts of European transport infrastructure development. Results of this work are referred 
by the following experts. 


Currently there are two concepts of ecological corridors for Poland, and implementation 
of both is strongly assured by law. Both networks are developed on the basis of different 
indicator species and approaches to international connectivity. The idea of both corridor net- 
works is to provide general guidelines for preserving ecological connectivity, which needs 
to be implemented and studied in more details on regional and local levels, and included 
in spatial development plans. ECONET-POLAND developed in 1996, was the first one and 
was developed within the IUCN project for Eastern Europe. It stemmed out of common 
IUCN methodologies used in other Central European countries participating in the project 
(Liro 1995). The other concept was developed in 2005 within a project contracted by the 
Ministry of Environment. The goal of the network is ensuring connectivity of Natura 2000 
habitats (Jedrzejewski et al. 2005; Jedrzejewski 2009). The network consists of nodes — 
most crucial protected areas (of different kinds, not only Natura 2000 sites are considered in 
the concept) or vast forest areas, and the corridors that link them. The network is designed 
with a potential for linking with protected areas in the neighbouring countries. It builds on 
the ECONET-POLSKA concept. Despite the fact that the project is not grounded in law, 
it inspires research, spatial planning, and is used in assessing environmental impact of 
investments on connectivity (especially roads and other linear infrastructure). Until 2009 in- 
formation about proposed corridors was taken into consideration in regional plans of 10 out 
of 16 regions in Poland. There is an identified need for involving state conservation bodies 
(Ministry of Environment) in further works on the concept and its implementation, providing 
compatibility with PEEN (Pan-European Ecological Network), and making more direct links 
to the concept of National Strategy of Spatial Development 2009-2033, which is currently in 
preparation. 


Independent ideas consider concepts for ensuring ecological connectivity of highly urban- 
ized areas (cities), an example of which is the Krakow Ecological Stability Network (SSEK 
— Sieé Stabilnosci Ekologicznej Krakowa) (Degoérska 2009). It provides expertise on ecolog- 
ical systems within a city and guidelines for implementing it into the urban spatial develop- 
ment plan. However, currently SSEK seems unlikely likely to be implemented. 


Important instruments of ensuring connectivity are single projects for studying and ensuring 
connectivity of particular species populations. Within the LIFE Nature funding scheme there 
is currently a project aiming at designing ecological corridors for Polish bison population 
(Kowalczyk 2009). 


For assessing connectivity, there is an identified need for monitoring the effectiveness of 
mitigation methods such as road passages for animals, and involving the Ministry of Infra- 
structures (Mystajek et al. 2009, Nowak and Mystajek 2009, Walasz 2009a). According to 
available literature, there is a need to develop an information system and data base with 
monitoring data, corridors and mortality of animals on roads, monitoring critical spots. 


3.2.2. Actors and their roles at multiple levels 
Spatial development strategies are prepared on all major administration levels: national, 


regional and local. At national level the main actors are the appropriate ministries (Ministry 
of Regional Development and Ministry of Environment; Ministry of Infrastructure), National 


Railway and General Directorate of Roads and Highways (GDDiA Generalna Dyrekcja Drég 
i Autostrad). Regional level comprises of regional authorities and regional departments of 
railway and road administration. The concept of connectivity and ecological corridors is cur- 
rently being well implemented at national and regional levels; however the real systematic 
preservation of connectivity can be assured only through local spatial development plans 
(Parusel et al 2009). National and regional strategies can influence large investments (e.g. 
regional or national roads), while local plans regulate majority of other forms of develop- 
ment, including building, land use change, etc. 


3.2.3. Formal institutions 


Ecological corridors are being considered as the main tool for ensuring connectivity; however 
their proper functioning depends on a broader set of formal mechanism and instruments, 
mainly in nature conservation and spatial planning (Pchatek et al 2011). Typology of national 
regulation with importance for ensuring connectivity, suggested by WWF, is presented below: 


puelod ul japow AJojejnsay JeUOvEN Z'7G 


¢ Regulations that create protected areas — Nature Conservation Act (Ustawa 0 Ochro- 
nie Przyrody (Dz.U.2004.92.880). The act explicitly refers to ecological connectivity 
only in case of Landscape Protection areas that have a function as ecological corri- 
dors. The act introduces ecological corridors, defined as “areas that enable migra- 
tion of plants, animals and fungi”. The provided definition is considered too general 
for explaining the role and creation of corridors. It is unclear whether ecological cor- 
ridors should be a separate type of protected areas or consist of existing protected 
areas. The current Act only offers protection the parts of corridors that are within oth- 
er protected areas. Neither ecological / regional connectivity nor ecological networks 
are defined. 

¢ Regulations rationing the use and management of the environment and its elements 
— regulated mainly by the Nature Conservation Act (Ustawa o Ochronie Przyrody, 
Dz.U.2004.92.880), but also other regulations on protected areas (e.g. international 
conventions. Main instruments here consider: planning instruments for protected ar- 
eas (considered as most important for ensuring connectivity), instruments in spatial 
planning (considered as necessary for implementation of other available regulations 
on connectivity), and planning instruments in water management and flood preven- 
tion. There is no obligation for preparing any planning instruments (plans, strategies) 
for Landscape Protection areas — the only form of protected area that, by law, can 
be designated as an ecological corridor. Management plans are required for Natura 
2000 sites (plany zadan ochronnych), national parks, nature reserves and Land- 
scape Parks (plany ochrony). 

¢ Spatial planning regulations — mainly Act on Planning and Spatial Development (Ust- 
awa 0 planowaniu i zagospodarowaniu przestrzennym, Dz.U.2003.80.717). The act 
defines three levels of spatial planning (national, regional and local), that should ac- 
count for protected areas and nature conservation criteria (defined by other regula- 
tions). It imposes a need for applying strategic environmental assessment in spatial 
planning and other eco- physiographic assessments. The regulation also impose the 
needs for “sustaining balance in natural environment” and “sustaining basic natural 
processes” — the latter is especially regarded as an important criteria for ensuring 
and restoring connectivity of Natura 2000 areas. 

¢ Environmental impact assessment regulations — regulated by Law on the availability 
of information about the environment and its protection, public participation in envi- 
ronmental protection and environmental impact assessment (Dz.U. 2008.199.1227, 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


Dz.U. 2008.25.150). Interpretation provided by WWF (Pchatek et al 2011) concludes 
that ecological connectivity is a valid and required criterion for environmental impact 
assessments; however in practice it is usually not applied. Since the procedure of 
approving assessment reports allows certain flexibility, ensuring better recognition of 
connectivity issues in assessments should start on changes in practice (e.g. creating 
examples of judicial decision). 

¢ Institutional regulations — the Nature Conservation Act (Ustawa o Ochronie Przyro- 
dy (Dz.U.2004.92.880) establishes the organisations responsible for nature conser- 
vation and advisory boards. Regarding connectivity and functioning of ecological 
corridors, there is no clear division of responsibilities for establishment / selection. 
Currently the main responsibility is delegated to RDEP, however this is mainly with 
regards to the connectivity of Natura 2000 sites. There is no regulation delegating 
responsibilities for ensuring connectivity between or outside protected areas. The 
State Forests are responsible for connectivity of forest areas. 

¢ Financial regulations — defining responsibility for assuring financial resources for na- 
ture conservation, derived from institutional regulations. The main source of funding 
for connectivity is the national budget, distributed through administration with given 
responsibilities / competences related to connectivity. Currently there are no long- 
term financial plans regarding ensuring ecological connectivity. There is a potential 
for financing connectivity of Natura 2000 sites with the use of other funds (e.g. Na- 
tional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, EU funds). 

¢ Regulations of technical character — procedures on the establishment of normal 
standards, e.g. regarding road passages (corridors) for animals. They are of inci- 
dental character, related to other particular legislations. 

¢ Regulations considering responsibility for compensations for limited use of proper- 
ties - Law on availability of information about environment and its protection, pub- 
lic participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessment 
(Dz.U. 2008.199.1227, Dz.U. 2008.25.150). 

¢ Regulations considering responsibility for damage in environment - Law on availa- 
bility of information about environment and its protection, public participation in envi- 
ronmental protection and environmental impact assessment (Dz.U. 2008.199.1227, 
Dz.U. 2008.25.150) 

¢ Rules of environmental protection — general principles of comprehensive protection, 
prevention, precautionary principle and polluters pay, defined in Law on availabili- 
ty of information about environment and its protection, public participation in envi- 
ronmental protection and environmental impact assessment (Dz.U. 2008.199.1227, 
Dz.U. 2008.25.150) 


Currently ecological corridors are sufficiently preserved only in parts that lie within existing 
forms of protected areas, e.g. landscape and national parks or Natura 2000 areas, which 
provide legally binding restrictions for spatial development plans and require environmental 
impact assessments for investments affecting connectivity (Kopilinski 2009). Connectivity of 
Natura 2000 areas is legally ensured in the Nature Conservation Act by stating that actions 
cannot be undertaken if they have an impact on the goals of Natura 2000 network, where 
the goal of integrity of the Natura 2000 network can be interpreted as connectivity between 
areas (Wodzynski 2009). According to this interpretation, environmental impact assessment 
(EIA) for investments on and between Natura 2000 sites should account for connectivity 
aspects, however it is not yet a common practice. Ecological connectivity is also a criterion 
for strategic environmental impact assessments (SEIA), sufficiently evaluated recently for 


the four major transportation (road and railway) development plans, including the long term 
plan with perspectives for 2033 (Pasek 2009). The main guidelines in the strategic assess- 
ments consider avoiding interference with ecological corridors where possible and assuring 
sufficient number and size of passages for animals as mitigation means. The use of EU 
structural funds also requires EIA to address the impact on migrating animals (Samptawski 
2009). The environmental impact of all EU funded investments is in general more carefully 
verified than non-EU funded development. As the majority of infrastructure investments in 
Poland use EU funds, sufficient assessment of impact on the environment in general, and 
many aspects of connectivity in particular, are formally ensured. 


Patency of ecological corridors is decreasing because the existing road infrastructure is 
being improved by a project undertaken by the General Directorate of Roads and Highways 
(GDDiA Generalna Dyrekcja Drdg i Autostrad) “Increasing patency of migration corridors” 
(Mickiewicz and Nowacka 2009). The project focuses on passages for animals and other 
mitigation means. Currently (state on 2008) there are 337 passages enabling animal migra- 
tion, a further 810 are planned within new roads and highways. 


Despite the fact that the concept of ecological connectivity is being taken into considera- 
tion in a number of plans and evaluations, ensuring connectivity (via ecological corridors 
implementation or the use of mitigation means) is not strongly legally grounded in Poland 
(tawreszuk et al 2009). There is no obligation for spatial planning at a local level to take 
connectivity into consideration. There is a lack of a coordinating institution to implement and 
further work on existing concepts on ecological corridors. No restrictions apply for farming 
activities that affect connectivity. Selected, but large and important road investments are 
based on the rules of so-called Special act (“Spec ustawa”) aiming at reaching the 2012 
plan of transport infrastructure development for the Euro 2012 Football Cup. The Special 
act makes the consideration of environmental issues less rigid and not enough time is giv- 
en for EIA preparation. Constant changes of the legislation on spatial planning since 1990 
have brought permanent incoherence within the environmental laws. Implementing national 
regulations and guidelines for ensuring connectivity into practical, local development rules 
is extremely difficult, due to the lack of coordination, hierarchy and coherence, which should 
be ensured in spatial planning legislation. Currently, local plans of spatial development are 
most binding for investors; however, their connection with national regional strategies is 
voluntary and depends on the particular agreements between regional and local authorities. 
The majority of the Polish territory lacks any kind of valid spatial development plans (80% 
of territory in 2008). Development in the areas not covered by valid plans is based on more 
general, less restrictive and less democratic laws, which do not account for ecological con- 
nectivity (Kolpinski 2009). 


Experts interviews completed within the SCALES project confirmed that bad spatial planning 
is the main obstacle to ensure ecological connectivity in Poland. The issue of spatial plan- 
ning was one of the most topical issues discussed during organized focus groups and inter- 
views. The majority of respondents heavily criticized the current Polish legislation on spatial 
planning and the way it operates in practice: “Spatial planning barely exist. Or it is symbolic’. 
The lack of local spatial development plans results in thousands of separate administrative 
decisions made by local officials. Usually those decisions are made by taking into account 
local economical needs or other local circumstances. “This is like a legal way of nature and 
landscape devastation. This procedure [single/separated administrative decisions] does not 
allow for a rational, systemic development of built-up areas but even takes a form of black- 


puejod Ul japow AJojejnsay JeEUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


mail. If the local official makes a negative decision on so called “building conditions”, he or 
she will be then subjected to a pressure of various factors, administrative and external, e.g. 
being called in the front of the court etc. This is because he/she has to justify his/her nega- 
tive decision so in practice, the investment is approved, simply just to avoid troubles”. 


Many respondents think that finding an effective way to ensure connectivity using current 
legislation seems to be difficult or even impossible. ,We have been intensively working on 
a proposal on how to effectively keep the connectivity among the protected sites also those 
which are not included in Natura 2000 Network but form an ecological corridor and stepping 
stones system. WWE is gone to propose an alteration of a current legislation on that issue. 
In general, connectivity system would be more based on Natura 2000 sites, simply because 
it is considerably effective form of nature conservation in the Polish reality”. “But again, 
realistically to fulfil that, management plans should be developed everywhere over all the 
protected areas, but they are not”. 


3.2.4. Funds and resources for integrated conservation 


So far there is no fund or financial support dedicated directly to increasing regional con- 
nectivity of protected areas. It is, however, possible for NGOs or institutions that manage 
protected sites to get financing from the National Fund (from national resources or external 
ones like LIFE+ projects or EEA and Norway Grants) or within the Operational Programme 
Infrastructure and Environment. In the majority of these financial sources, integrated conser- 
vation seems to be an important part of the project requirements. Current financing schemes 
(2007-2013) include aspects of regional connectivity and integrated conservation. The ex- 
ample of this is the set of variants within packages 4 and 5 (Protection of endangered species 
and habitats outside Natura 2000 sites and Protection of endangered species and habitats 
on Natura 2000 sites), which are exactly the same. The aim of those packages is to protect 
the same habitats and species, no matter if they are included into the Natura 2000 network 
or not, which can increase the integration of conservation actions. All the requirements and 
restrictions concerning endangered habitats are the same, only the payments are different 
(higher on Natura 2000 sites). 


3.2.5. Informal rules and practices 


While consideration of ecological connectivity is not strongly enforced by law, its practical 
implementation depends on more informal rules, knowledge and preferences of stakehold- 
ers within public administration. The concept of ecological connectivity is included in numer- 
ous regional spatial planning strategies, even though it is not obligatory, and there are no 
common guidelines for methodologies (Mitosz-Cielma 2009). Most regions referred in their 
plans to existing concepts of ecological corridors (ECONET-Poland and the concept de- 
scribed in Jedrzejewski et al 2005), only one was based on their own assessments. On the 
local level, consideration or lack of consideration of connectivity issues in spatial planning 
is even more dependent on informal rules and practices; however this issue has not been 
described in literature. 


Among practices and rules that hinders capacity to improve connectivity, the following ones 
are being mentioned in the literature: lack of common, established methodology of measur- 
ing and ensuring connectivity in spatial planning; strong development pressures and rapid 
increase in number of investments after EU accession; general disorder in planning and de- 
velopment — lack of its integration between local and regional levels; lack of engagement of 


local authorities in ensuring connectivity; road planning rarely includes passages for animals 
in the preliminary plans and budgets before preparation of EIA reports, which makes it more 
difficult to fund a sufficient number of such facilities later on in the plans (Lawreszuk et al 
2009); lack of integration between regional mitigation means and lack of monitoring of their 
functionality (Mystajek et al 2009, Nowak and Mystajek 2009); complexity of EIA procedure 
hinders the use of EU resources, as an effect development pressure influences quality of 
EIA reports (Sampotowski 2009). There are no existing economic incentives designed to 
support connectivity, while the relevance of other existing incentives that can improve con- 
nectivity is very low. 


The Polish concept of ecological corridors refers to the theory of ecological patches and 
corridors, including areas with a higher share of semi natural habitats (Degdrski 2009). 
The concept does not only take into account population criteria, but also considers criteria 
of ecosystem stability within the country and refers to more general environmental, social, 
health and life quality functions. The current concept is based on migration trails of large 
mammals as selected indicator species for the needs of connectivity of other species hab- 
itats. It indicates the need of afforested corridors. Currently, depending on the region, from 
30 to 100% of proposed corridors are covered with forest. 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsas JeUOvEN Z'7~G 


Implementation of ecological corridors ensuring connectivity in the regional spatial de- 
velopment strategies is based mostly on the two existing national concepts of corridors 
(ECONET-POLAND and concept described in Jedrzejewski et al 2005), and sometimes it 
also uses additional, ordered assessments (Mitosz-Cielma 2009). Methodologies of such 
approaches and ways of matching information from different concepts differ significantly be- 
tween regions. The use of international concepts and ensuring its coherence with postulated 
ones is insufficient. Separate methodologies are considered for river ecological corridors 
(Jelonek 2009) and urban ecological corridors (Walasz 2009b, Degérska 2009); however 
these are rarely implemented. 


The concept of Green Infrastructure (Gl) was raised during focus groups and interviews 
when connectivity issues were discussed. Gl is still not widely recognized by practitioners 
or scientists in Poland. It is recognized and understood differently by different people, and 
there is no common definition of the concept at all. In general however, it is seen as a means 
to achieve a better connectivity and a more effective conservation outside protected areas 
as well as a good tool to gain public support and understanding. 


3.3. Scales issues in regulatory regimes 


Even though scales issues are not explicitly considered in the Polish nature conservation 
policies, various scales were described as important for effective conservation. The follow- 
ing scales and their relevance for biodiversity conservation were discussed with experts and 
stakeholders during focus group interviews organized within the SCALES project. 


Spatial scale — discussed in relation to spatial planning and infrastructure development. 
Different levels of this scale are prone to conflicts with public or private investments. The ef- 
fectiveness of conservation in spatial scale was understood by the respondents as ensuring 
connectivity of the protected areas. Mismatches between the needs for ensuring connec- 
tivity and existing policy instruments were identified and considered as the biggest problem 
of spatial planning (see above in chapter 3.2). The main instruments relevant for spatial 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


scale, in the respondents opinion, are: spatial development plans on local and regional lev- 
el, whereas environmental impact assessment is not scale sensitive mainly due to lack of 
reference to any connectivity criteria. 


Jurisdictional scale — defined differently: (1) as relations between public administration on 
European, national, regional and local level, (2) relations between public administration of 
different sectors, (3) relations between state and non-state actors. Problems on different lev- 
els of administrative scale were discussed mainly in the context of the latest national reform 
of nature conservation administration. 


Temporal scale — was found relevant but not much discussed by participants of any focus 
group. Temporal issues of conservation were put in context of scientific background of deci- 
sion-making in conservation. 


Networks scale — understood as the role of stakeholders, social groups and a third sector 
in conservation. Division between this scale and administrative scale was not clear to the 
respondents. 


Ecological scale — discussed in relation to various forms of protected areas, especially 
those focused on species and habitats compared to the landscape protection. Latest re- 
forms and accession to the EU were the main context for discussing this issue. 

Additionally participants of regional and central focus groups listed three issues relevant for 
discussing conservation regulatory regime. The issues can be framed as types of relations be- 
tween the scales listed above, or as separate dimensions of the nature conservation system: 


Welfare and economic activities — an important context of environmental policy making, de- 
termines political priorities given to either development and consumption, or conservation and 
protection of natural resources. In respondents’ perception, conservation priority is a domain 
of higher levels of welfare, while development and consumption — mid- and lower levels. A 
need for economic development is prioritized in political discourse in Poland, based on argu- 
ments about the need to “catch up with the West’ in terms of increasing welfare and economy. 


Information flows and exchange, including domains of education, research, and mon- 
itoring — information and its’ flow was discussed in different aspects. The role of different 
types of knowledge production and distribution was mentioned e.g. scientific and practition- 
ers’ knowledge; projections and explanations. Flows of information considered both informal 
communication between stakeholders and designed education targeted at different groups 
(professional groups, students as future practitioners, general audience). 


Power and politics — described as relations between different actors at various admin- 
istrative levels and sectors. Power is related to existing political discourses. Discourses 
produced on local and central levels can significantly differ. Those dominating on a central 
level can influence policy design and implementation, while local discourses affect practical 
activities and ad-hoc decisions. 


3.3.1. The nature conservation in the EU Member States — a role of the EU system? 
Accession to the EU rapidly increased importance of international obligations and forced impor- 


tant changes in the national conservation system. Relevant changes in the last 7 years included: 
(1) increased effectiveness of environmental impact assessments and reports, including intro- 


duction of strategic assessments, (2) introduction of habitat conservation, (3) possibility of ap- 
pealing to superior institutions — the European Commission and European Court of Justice — in 
case of national state’s failure to observe environmental standards and regulation. Introduction 
of new obligations and approaches to conservation “refreshed” the Polish conservation system, 
making it more aware and open to answering new challenges, such as biodiversity loss and cli- 
mate change. [Polish forms of nature conservation] ,even before we became a member of the 
EU they (the national forms of nature conservation) were a bit old fashioned, simply not suitable 
to the situation in due time. E.g. landscape parks should have been re-functioned in the mid 
90s.” European legislation and its transposition is perceived as being more restrictive and effec- 
tive than the previously existing one, not only because actual restrictions were introduced, but 
mainly due to a better enforcement. The EU is also perceived as less dependent on politics than 
national states which make it easier to introduce more restrictive environmental regulations. 


,A potential elector has much bigger influence on the national government (it is very evident) 
than on the UE authorities. There in the EU there is a kind of chaos, they all (EU membership 
countries) mix altogether and get into the EU government, elect the Commission, which is in 
power. It definitely has a lower effect on the local development. That is why the EU system 
may act in a more predictable way, at more global level than the national authorities. Almost 
all the EU membership countries are fighting (struggling) with the European Commission. 
There is possibly no EU country who sympathize with the Commission and are very much 
in favour their policy (...). But at the same time there are new tools appearing which will in 
a more effective way serve the nature conservation. The nature conservation we deal with” 
Legitimization of the EU’s influence on the national nature conservation system, especially 
designation of Natura 2000 areas, is still a problem at a local level. Numerous conflicts still 
exist and both citizens and local authorities often express their discontent when sites are 
located within their municipalities. Problems of legitimization exist partly because of the way 
in which the need to designate Natura 2000 sites was explained to the public during the first 
years of the implementation process. It used to be argued that Natura 2000 designation 
was imposed by the EU and had to be accepted as such. The relevance of the Natura 2000 
network for protecting the environment and its potential positive role for the local societies 
was omitted in communication because it was more difficult to justify. Currently such an ap- 
proach is considered a mistake as there is a growing recognition of the need for engaging 
local authorities and private owners in managing Natura 2000 areas. 


3.3.2. Competition and effectiveness of different protected areas 


Implementation of European directives resulted in competition over allocation of human and 
financial resources between existing and new protected areas. Reform of nature conser- 
vation administration introduced in 2008 was aimed at improving management of Natura 
2000 network, while authority over areas of landscape protection and other smaller forms of 
nature protection was given to general regional and local administration, who are potentially 
least interested in ensuring effective protection. As a result, species and habitat conserva- 
tion is relatively well ensured, while protection of landscapes, potentially more relevant for 
ensuring ecological connectivity, is being marginalized. 


,Currently in Poland all the resources and strength are focused, directed towards Natura 
2000. It results in neglecting the way the other elements of the environment are protected.” 
»We feel that everything we did, achieved in nature conservation until now was somehow 
abolished, lost, discontinued and changed for Natura 2000.” 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsay JeUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


While resources are crucial for proper functioning of protected areas, lack of effectiveness 
is also a result of imprecise and incomplete regulations. 


“| know landscape parks, which operate perfectly, but this is mainly thanks to sometimes he- 
roic (very devoted) employees. In general however, system as such in the in the whole coun- 
try scales is simply very weak to make that form of the nature conservation effective enough.” 


Natura 2000 is perceived as a very effective regulation because of clear procedures and de- 
fined goals. Effectiveness in this case was understood as a combination of clear targets, and 
ensured measures and means for its achievement. In comparison, other forms of protected 
areas may lack either precise explication goals (e.g. what is a reference state) or instruments 
for ensuring that the goal will be achieved. ,A real effective forms of nature conservation are 
those connected to Natura 2000 Network. And that is because of an immediate transposition 
from the EU legislation to ours. In case of other forms of the nature protection regulations 
were developed nationally, and in majority they are ineffective and spectacular. In general, it 
is stated that there is a need of nature protection but not mentioned what a final effect of the 
protection policy might be. In case of Natura 2000 it is clearly defined.” 


Lessons learned from transposition and implementation of Bird and Habitat Directives 
should be used to improve quality of other regulations ,while protecting national forms of 
nature conservation many instruments of N2000 should be taken, such as EIA. It would 
result in coherence and high effectiveness of the whole national system”. Lessons referred 
to by respondents consider development of a legislative system that will support the use of 
available instruments (both command-and-control, such as EIA, as well as contractual, such 
as agri-environmental schemes) for effective conservation of protected areas or outside 
protected areas. With regard to national parks, current discussions consider mainly the role 
of local authorities and a need for their approval for creation or enlargement of the protected 
area — or more precisely: possible withdrawal of such requirement form a current law . The 
use of a broader selection of policy instruments has been discussed with regards to ecolog- 
ical corridors, supported by required changes in legislation. 


Protected areas based on national legislation are not the only example of ineffective forms 
of conservation. Biosphere reserves were indicated as an example of a purely “paper” pro- 
tected areas not really secured by the law. Ineffectiveness in this case considers weakness 
of protection measures and an inability to hinder activities and development that potentially 
affect the subject of protection. 


Experiences achieved from the implementation process and practical functioning of Natura 
2000 were not taken into consideration while introducing other European regulations consid- 
ering natural resources, such as the Water Framework Directive. There is an unclear distribu- 
tion of national competences and responsibilities considering implementation of this particular 
directive , The biggest problem is a continuous “war”, disagreement between the Ministry of 
the Environment and the Ministry of the Agriculture. And that is classic Polish incompetence. 
Firstly, there is the Deputy of the Environment and the National and Regional Water Boards 
which dictates how to manage waters which are essential for the national economy. Second- 
ly, there is an agricultural sector which operates at various administration level starting from 
the national (a President) going down to the provincial (regional) level (Voivodship Water 
Melioration Boards) which co-ordinate water usage for the agriculture. (...) And the problem 
stems from the fact that besides the territorial division there is also functional one (...) And in 


practice, the Deputy of the Agriculture Ministry decides how to fish the certain water reser- 
voirs and how to change the ichtiofauna there, and at the very same time the Deputy of the 
Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the ecological quality of the same water. And 
the Main Nature Conservator is in charge of protecting the Natura 2000 water species.” WFD,, 
is completely incompetent” (literally: ,A competence spaghetti”) [RDWM] 


3.3.3. Nature conservation on national, regional and local levels in every day usage 


Currently the main “operational” regulations considering Natura 2000 and other relevant 
aspects of the Polish conservation system are based on the regional level of public admin- 
istration. While transposition of European rules into national legislation is made on central 
level, actual implementation of EU Directives takes place on the regional level. For nature 
conservation, the most important regional actor is RDEP, responsible for management of 
Natura 2000 sites, but also various site selection processes, and environmental impact as- 
sessments. Despite the relatively independent position of RDEP from direct political influ- 
ences, its activities are related to various actors and institutions at local and national levels. 
‘fa pressure is only up to a particular investment (...) on the national level-- the bigger inves- 
tigation the more severe tension. On the regional level there is another type of pressure con- 
nected with a need of spending funds (mainly Regional Operation Programs), which usually 
need to be allocated as soon as possible. And finally on the local level a particular investor 
responsible for completing a certain asset tries to attract locals by offering variety of activ- 
ities such a new school, taking people for excursion or organizing any studio visits. Such 
a policy is quite common. And real regulations are somehow not taken into account there” 
While there are smaller hindrances while considering cooperation with central institutions, a 
variety of problems seem to appear at the local level. Even if the mechanisms or procedures 
concerning decision-making exist, local government officials are usually strongly influenced 
by local circumstances (politics, networks, PR, informal relations, connections etc.). ,/at the 
local level] there are local groups of interests who are influential. And at the highest — nation- 
al level there is only a politics”. 


puelod Ul japow AJojejnsa/ JeEUOLEN Z7°7~G 


The problem of nature conservation and protection at a local level exists not only because 
of drawbacks of regulations, but mainly because of a weak enforcement system. Enforce- 
ment of regulations at a local level is dependent on willingness of local authorities and their 
personal recognition of the regulation’s importance. “/ think that proper mechanisms exist 
but there is no will to apply them, local official does not feel like being a policeman (...) They 
often say ‘l know these people, they have no money, it’s an old lady and so on and so forth... 
so the law is being devalued and distorted at a local level.” The problem considers mainly 
smaller-scale investments or the construction of family homes, which should be regulated 
with local spatial planning law and may potentially affect protected areas that are within the 
authority of regional or local public administration other than RDEP (e.g. landscape parks). 
Weak enforcement arises from an unwillingness to apply the regulations in full and allowed 
exceptions due to the perceived low impact of investments. 


Experts indicated the lack of intermediate level between the local and regional ones. A sig- 
nificant number of problems cannot be solved only at a local level and cooperation among 
municipalities is crucial but currently still not common. 


Another factor influencing functioning of administration in Poland are attitudes of local au- 
thorities’ representatives towards regional and national administrative bodies — often un- 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


friendly, critical, and inculpatory. “There is a visible gap between local community and Polish 
society or international society. People perceive some regulations as imposed. (..) The same 
goes for administration — local authorities treat regional and national levels as those that are 
doing nothing but pushing too much of their responsibilities and duties to lower levels.” 


3.3.4. Integration and strategic approach to the nature conservation 


Evaluation of nature conservation systems from the perspective of different administrative 
levels and sectors raised questions about the integration of different policy domains and 
strategic planning. The latter was heavily criticized as being insufficient “The problem is 
that we develop certain forms of nature protection trying to conserve nature using them. But 
realistically within the country we do not have any real conservation policy. Nobody is really 
taking care of developing a coherent policy”. 


Integration between sectors is not only secured between “environmental” sectors and other 
domains, but also between those responsible for various natural resources: fishery, agricul- 
ture, nature conservation. A good example is the latest National Spatial Development ,,/t was 
developed in such a way that 16 or 18 experts were asked to complete a sectoral policy. 
One specialist focused on water, another on agriculture. Then all reports were combined, a 
map of the country was drawn, appropriate symbols were put over the map and that is the 
way the development of the country was planned (...). But there is a fact that sectoral policy 
generates conflicts (...). And that was not mentioned in the report” 


There is lack of integration between different actions undertaken at a local level. Additionally, 
nature conservation is considered to be less important than other domains of public actions: 
“We should try to integrate all our actions both on local and governmental level: protecting 
the nature by historical heritage conservation, work performed at governmental level paral- 
leled with local initiatives. We all who work for nature conservation recognize that in most 
cases it is not influential at all. If we do not have any tools in various sectors: the landscape 
management, water management, education, economy what can we do? We cannot even 
say that that a particular bear is important as a species, we are simply not able either to 
document or to calculate it”. 


Insufficient integration between nature conservation policies and regional planning results 
in limited or no funding allocated to conservation (as described in chapter 3.1.4.). “In some 
sectors there is no knowledge or acceptance of global perspective that natural environment 
need to be protected irrespective of the sector. There is no awareness that just having vari- 
ous forms of nature conservation is not enough.” 


3.3.5. Information and knowledge 


Access to the information and knowledge resources was indicated as an important context 
of evaluating performance of conservation system. There has been a constant deficiency of 
information, mainly those needed for decision making purposes especially on the local level. 
Knowledge about global environmental processes and their causal relationships has been 
and still is more accessible than knowledge about individual cases at the local level. It how- 
ever seems to be difficult for lower level stakeholders to access. ,,At the global level there is 
a need of data to develop a model. They are much more general, so less accurate, indispen- 
sable, let’s say (...) the further down (towards local level) the data should be more detailed 
to forecast, model, and introduce various activities and honestly in majority of cases such 


detailed data, which are required is not available”. However these issues are not expected 
to be sorted out. Alot has already been improved in terms of systematic data collection, but 
decision making and management will always operate in conditions of uncertainty. “Poland 
is a large and diverse country in terms of nature. Knowledge about this diversity will never 
be sufficiently completed in comparison to, let’s say, The Netherlands where accumulation 
of natural scientists per given surface is much higher and therefore a development of mon- 
itoring is much more advanced. There is a need for constant improvements [of monitoring 
programs] but available information will never be sufficient.” 


The environmental knowledge we posses should be used to set priorities for nature con- 
servation. Currently activities conducted within various public and non-public conservation 
programs are not in accordance of reasonable priorities, which result in worse integration 
and effectiveness. Examples given by participants of the focus groups included well-funded 
programs aiming at protection of the species and habitats that cannot be sustained in the 
long term due to unfavourable changes in the environment occurring on higher levels (e.g. 
climate change). 


The manner in which knowledge is used and spread is also an issue of scale. Within the 
public conservation system the flow of information is top-down and ineffective. While proper 
expertise is available on a national level and within administration units responsible for the 
nature conservation, there is often a lack of very basic awareness of environmental process- 
es within other sectors of public administration. “Public officers are still very poorly educated. 
Evaluation of every investment is just limited to a question of what is more important: a frog 
or a human being.” 


puelod ul japow AJojejnsay jeEUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


4. Conclusions 


The national regulatory model for biodiversity conservation in Poland consists largely of rig- 
id command-and-control regulations. It is still rather strongly centralized, despite important 
changes in the public administration of nature conservation, which led to the delegation of 
responsibilities (mainly for implementation of Natura 2000) to regional level. Most visible 
changes caused by the establishment of RDEP took into account the implementation of 
Natura 2000. While approaches used during designation of sites were generally rather uni- 
fied, management is more adaptive and reflects particular local conditions. Delegation of re- 
sponsibilities to regional level is also regarded as highly important because of its resistance 
to political influence and other pressures (e.g. development-ones) that are more present at 
local and central level. 


In general, respondents of the following study met difficulties while explicitly discussing 
scale issues, irrespective of the fact that they were experts or regular employees of vari- 
ous nature protection institutions. Nevertheless important scales and examples of interplay 
were described while referring to particular issues in functioning of nature conservation. 
According to respondents of the study, the main flaws in current system are due to complex 
and insufficient regulations in the first place; however mismatches between institutions (in- 
cluding division of competences) and conflicts they may potentially cause were also indi- 
cated. Main interplays within the legislative system considered nature conservation, spatial 
planning, forestry and water management sectors. Integration between the different policy 
domains is not only hindered by lack of formal regulations, but also, even more importantly, 
by attitudes of individuals working for different sectors. Looking at organizational aspects, 
relations between administration for nature conservation and forestry are stereotypically 
most conflict-prone, however in practice regulations regarding nature conservation are be- 
ing well applied in forestry planning instruments and measures. With respect to protected 
areas, Current policies favour species and habitat-oriented conservation (in terms of fund- 
ing, human resources and providing more rigid regulations), while landscape protection has 
important flaws that should be corrected. It is a result of “competition” for funds and human 
resources that happened during implementation of Natura 2000 and securing resources for 
its functioning. 


The importance given to Natura 2000, that weakened national structure for protection of the 
landscape, was a consequence of a focus on the EU policies and urgency in its implemen- 
tation. It has to be stressed however that Natura 2000 is seen as one of the most effective 
forms of nature protection over the country with respect to the strongest regulation enforce- 
ment. New site-selection processes are rather unlikely in the future (despite enlargement 
of Biatowieza national park or rather vague plans of creating new national parks). Currently 
priority is given to effective management of Natura 2000 sites and ensuring connectivity 
through better spatial planning. 


In the long run ecological connectivity and nature conservation outside protected areas are 
regarded as crucial for ensuring that the environment remains in a favourable state . Po- 
tential for ensuring connectivity is seen mainly in improving existing instruments, such as 
ecological corridors, Natura 2000, better integration between spatial planning and nature 
conservation. The importance of connectivity in the broader context of creating green infra- 
structure is not yet well recognized. Concepts for ensuring connectivity have been actively 


developed by both science and policy makers, however they are mostly voluntary or of a 
weak enforcement nature. Governance mechanisms that are indicated as promising for pro- 
moting connectivity area: better consultation practices in special planning and EIA process- 
es and improved spatial planning on local level, integrated with strategic planning at regional 
level. Recently a need for legislative changes for better ensuring of connectivity has been 
addressed by WWF, a comprehensive analysis of flaws and proposition of changes were 
presented (Pchatek et al 2011). 


Very little importance was given to local authorities and communities (including a third sector 
and civil society institutions at local level) concerning nature conservation. The success of 
nature protection is perceived to be a result of good top-down policy implementation, mostly 
due to lack of confidence in the effectiveness of bottom-up approaches. Despite increased 
participation of stakeholders, importance given to nature in other sectors of public admin- 
istration and general public attitudes towards nature were considered as important or even 
crucial. The success of conservation — in the eyes of respondents — depends on rigid regu- 
lations rather than voluntary measures. The example of interplay in the areas of ecological 
connectivity and spatial planning supports such observation only partly. Flaws in legislation 
considering ecological corridors and insufficient implementation of spatial planning on a lo- 
cal level indeed create an obstacle for ensuring ecological connectivity. However planning 
processes on the regional level broadly recognize and voluntarily account for the need of 
ensuring connectivity. An important exception is the cooperation between environmental 
NGOs (e.g. WWF, Polish partner of BirdLife) and public administration for nature conserva- 
tion at central and regional level, both of formal and informal character. Local stakeholders 
and private land owners are being engaged to some extent (e.g. in development of Natura 
2000 management plans) however they are perceived rather as target of education, or pro- 
viders of information, rather than partners deciding about the goals of conservation. A lack 
of knowledge about environmental processes and current regulations considering the envi- 
ronment at the local level has been considered as one of the main barriers for meaningful 
engagement of stakeholders. 


puejod ul japow AJojejnsay jeuOvEN Z'7~G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


Literature 


Andrzejewski R., Weigle A. 2003. Roznorodnosé biologiczna Polski, Warszawa: Narodowa 
Fundacja Ochrony Srodowiska 

Babiasz, R., Jedra, M., Rejmer, M., Szymczuk, R. 2006. Zbiornik wodny w ostoi naturowej, 
Dzikie Zycie 6(144): 3 

Baranowski, M. 2003. Prace nad siecig Natura 2000 w Polsce. In: Ekologiczna siec Natura 
2000. Problem czy szansa. Instytut Ochrony Przyrody, M. Makomaska-Juchiewicz, S., 
Tworek (eds.) Krakow: IOP PAN, pp. 219-227 

Bohdan A. 2006. Nardd w obronie Rospudy, Dzikie Zycie 9(147): 1-2 

Borttumiak A., Zagorski M. 2011. Natura 2000 — dobro publiczne problem prywatny. Raport z 
badan. Europejski Fundusz Rozwoju Wsi Polskiej http://www.efrwp.pl/theme/site/userfi- 
les/files/Raport_Natura2000.pdf 

Borttumiak A., Ktodzinski M. (eds.) 2011. Natura 2000 jako czynnik zrownowazonego rozwo- 
ju obszarow wiejskich regionu Zielonych Ptuc Polski. IWiRW PAN, Warszawa. 

Bzoma Sz. 2006. Rybitwy na falochronie. Dzikie Zycie 9(147): 9 

Cent J, Kobierska H, Grodzinska-Jurczak M, Bell S. 2007. Who is responsible for Natura 
2000 in Poland? — a potential role of NGOs in establishing the programme. International 
Journal of Environment and Sustainable Development 6: 422-435 

Cent J., Grodzifska-Jurczak M., Nowak N. 2010. Ocena efektOw matopolskiego progra- 
mu konsultacji spotecznych wok6ot obszaréw Natura 2000. Chronmy Przyrode Ojczysta 
66(4): 251-260. [English title: Public consultations program on Natura 2000 sites in Ma- 
lopolska — effects’ evaluation]. 

Chojnowski R. 2006. Via Baltica — nie tedy droga. Zielone Brygady 3(217): 2-3 

Council of Ministries 2008 Raport z realizacji polityki ekologicznej panstwa w latach 2003- 
2006. (Report on implementation National Ecological Policy 2003-2006]. http://www. 
mos.gov.pl/g2/big/2009_04/9b78a7128d821aa17bc5f84be4e58306.pdf 

Degorska B. 2009 Ecological Stability Network as an important factor of a large city sustain- 
able development — Cracow case study. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna 
tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskie} Akademii 
Nauk. [in Polish] 162-170 

Degorski M. 2009 Ecological corridors in the Concept of Land Development at the National 
Level. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biato- 
wieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 83-88 

Faber, A. 2008. Przysztosc¢ polskiego rolnictwa, a produkcja biomasy, http://bio-energia.pl/ 
forum/przyszlosc-polskiego-rolnictwa-a-produkcja-biomasy-t16.html 

Giordano K. 2006 Planowanie zrownowazonego rozwoju gminy w praktyce. Lublin: Wydaw- 
nictwo KUL 

Glinski P. 1996. Polscy Zieloni: ruch spoteczny w okresie przemian. Warszawa: IFiS PAN 

Gtowacinski Z. 2003. R6znorodnosé biologiczna Polski [Biodiversity of Poland]. Aura 5(03): 
22-25 

Grodzinska-Jurczak M., Cent J. 2011. Expansion of nature conservation areas - problems 
with Natura 2000 implementation in Poland. Environmental Management 47:11-27 

GUS: Central Statistical Bureau. 2008. Energia ze zrddet odnawialnych w 2007r. [Renewa- 
ble energy in 2007] Warszawa: GUS 

IRWiR PAN 2011. Summary of a conference ,Wptyw obszarow Natura 2000 na rozwoj 
gmin wiejskich — impuls czy hamulec’”, Warszawa, April 2011. http://www.irwirpan.waw. 
pl/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=337 %3Awnioski-z-dyskusji&ca- 
tid=49&ltemid=52&lang=pl 


Jedrzejewski W. 2009 The network of ecological corridors connecting the protected areas 
in Poland. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. 
Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 71-82 

Jedrzejewski W., Nowak S., Stachura K., Skierczynski M., Mystajek R., Niedziatkowski K., 
Jedrzejewska B., Wojcik J., Zalewska H., Pilot M. 2005 Projekt korytarzy ekologicznych 
taczacych Europejska siec Natura 2000 w Polsce. Opracowanie wykonane dla Minister- 
stwa Srodowiska, Program Phare PL0105 02, Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakéw PAN 

Jelonek M. 2009 Practical aspects of the determination, maintenance and reconstruction of 
the continuity of fluvial ecological corridors. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna 
tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskie} Akademii 
Nauk. [in Polish] 148-153 

Jermaczek A, Pawlaczyk P. 2004. Natura 2000 — narzedzie ochrony przyrody. Planowanie 
ochrony obszaréw Natura 2000. Warszawa: WWF Polska, pp 78 

Kepel A. 2006. Polska oblata egzamin z ochrony przyrody. Dzikie Zycie 6(144): 1 

Kolipinski B. 2009 Methodological and legal aspects of nature protection in the land de- 
velopment plans. In: Jedrzejewski W., tawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej 
Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 121-125 

Kondracki J. 2000. Geografia regionalna Polski. Warszawa: PWN 

Kotonska B. 2007. System ochrony przyrody w Polsce. [In:] Gregorczyk M. (red.), Integralna 
Ochrona Przyrody. Krakow: Instytut Ochrony Przyrody PAN 

Kowalczyk R. 2009 The need for the demarcation and protection of ecological corridors to 
protect the population of the European bison and ensure its development in Podlasie re- 
gion, Poland. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. 
Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 65-68 

Krolikowska K. 2007 Konflikty spoteczne w polskich parkach narodowych. Krakéw: Oficyna 
Wydawnicza Impuls.s 

tawreszuk D., Jedrzejewski W., Niedziatkowski K. 2009 Guidelines for the strategy of the 
implementation of the ecological connectivity in Poland — results of the inquiry conduct- 
ed during the conference in Biatowieza. In: Jedrzejewski W., tawreszuk D. Ochorna 
tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskie} Akademii 
Nauk. [in Polish] 303-308 

Liro A. (ed.) 1995 Koncepcja krajowej sieci ekologicznej) ECONET-POLSKA. Warszawa: 
Fundacja IUCN Poland. 

Makomaska-Juchiewicz M. 2007. Sie¢ obszarow Natura 2000 w Polsce [In:] Gregorczyk M. 
(red.), Integralna Ochrona Przyrody. Krakow: Instytut Ochrony Przyrody PAN 

Makomaska-Juchiewicz M., Tworek S. 2003. Ekologiczna Sie¢ Natura 2000. Problem czy 
szansa. Krakow: IOP PAN 

Mickiewicz P., Nowacka D. 2009 Road building and the maintenance of the permeability of 
ecological corridors In: Jedrzejewski W., Ltawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej 
Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 179-184 

Mitosz-Cielma M., tawreszuk D., Jedrzejewski W. 2009 Ecological corridors in the Polish 
spatial planning system on regional level — overview of concepts, methods and imple- 
mentation progress. In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologiczne;j 
Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 126-134 

Mystajek R.W., Mitosz-Cielma M., tawreszuk D., Jedrzejewski W., Nowak S., Kurek R.T. 
2009 Construction of passages for animals as an instrument of the protection of ecolog- 
ical connectivity - completed and planned passages for animals in Poland. In: Jedrze- 
jewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad 
Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 191-195 


puejod Ul japow AJojejnsay jeUOvEN Z'7G 


Securing the Conservation of biodiversity across Administrative Levels and spatial, temporal, and Ecological Scales 


Nowak S., Mystajek R.W. 2009 Proposal of unification of the principles of designating and 
monitoring passageways for animals in Poland. In: Jedrzejewski W., tawreszuk D. 
Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakdéw Polskie} 
Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 196-203 

Partyka J, Zétciak J (2005) The conflict between man and nature as exemplified by the 
Ojcow National Park. In: Hibszer A, Partyka J (eds.), Between nature protection and 
economy — closer to protection. Man — nature conflicts in the areas protected by law 
in Poland. Polskie Towarzystwo Geograficzne Oddziat Katowicki, Sosnowiec — Ojcow, 
Poland, pp. 32 -42 

Parusel J.B., Skowronska K., Wower A. 2009 Ecological corridors in the voivodship of Sile- 
sia — a concept to be included in the regional land development plan. In: Jedrzejewski 
W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania 
Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 113-120 

Pasek J. 2009 The assessment of the influence of the infrastructure development schemes 
on ecological corridors In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekolog- 
icznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 
173-178 

Pchatek M., Kupczyk P., Matyjasiak P., Juchnik A. 2011. Efektywnosé ochrony korytarzy 
ekologicznych. Koncepcja zmian legislacyjnych. Warszawa: WWF Polska. 

Perzanowska J, Grzegorczyk M. 2009. Obszary Natura 2000 w Matopolsce. Krakow: Insty- 
tut Ochrony Przyrody PAN 

Perzanowska J., Grzegorczyk M. 2009. Obszary Natura 2000 w Matopolsce. Krakow: Insty- 
tut Ochrony Przyrody PAN 

Polish Ministry of Environment. 2003. Krajowa strategia ochrony i umiarkowanego uzytko- 
wania roznorodnosci biologicznej wraz z Programem dziatan [National Strategy for the 
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity along with Action Plan] 

Polish Ministry of Environment. 2008. Polityka ekologiczna panstwa w latach 2009 — 2012 z 
perspektywa do roku 2016 [National ecological policy for 2009 — 2012 with perspective 
until 2016] 

Polish Ministry of the Environment 2009. Fourth National Report on the Implementation 
of the Convention on Biological Diversity — Poland. http://biodiv.mos.gov.pl/biodiv/files/ 
I\V_CBD_report_ - POLAND.pdf 

Samptawski K. 2009 Compliance with the Community environmental law as a prerequisite 
for cofinancing projects from EU funds. In: Jedrzejewski W., tawreszuk D. Ochorna 
tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskie} Akademii 
Nauk. [in Polish] 227-231 

Schwaderer G. 2009 Importance of ecological networks for large carnivores in Europe. In: 
Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Za- 
ktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 61-64 

Szymczuk, R. 2006. Boje z natura, Dzikie Zycie 9 (147): 8 

Terlecka K, Gorecki A. 1998. Ojcow National Park — forming attitudes and ecological aware- 
ness of its inhabitants. Pradnik, Prace Muzeum Szafera, 11, 12: 369-396 

The Council of Ministers 2008. Raport z realizacji polityki ekologicznej panstwa w latach 
2003 — 2006 [Report on State ecological policy implementation for 2003 — 2006] 

Tworek S. 2007. Miedzynarodowe inicjatywy ekologiczne w ochronie przyrody: konwencje, 
dyrektywy, Natura 2000. In: Grzegorczyk M. (eds) Integralna ochrona przyrody. Krakow: 
Instytut Ochrony Przyrody PAN 

Walasz K. 2009a Proposed nationwide system of monitoring ecological corridors, based 
on information collected by General Directorate for National Motorways and Highways 


In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: 
Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 204-206 

Walasz K. 2009b Concept of ecological corridors on urban territories In: Jedrzejewski W., 
tawreszuk D. Ochorna tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssa- 
kow Polskiej Akademii Nauk. [in Polish] 154-161 

Wertz J. 2007 Recent changes in nature conservation system in Poland. Chronmy Przyrode 
Ojczysta 65 (1): 5-10 

Wodzynski S. 2009 The network of the Natura 2000 sites — the need for the maintenance 
of its integrity and ecological connectivity In: Jedrzejewski W., Lawreszuk D. Ochorna 
tacznosci ekologicznej Polski. Biatowieza: Zaktad Badania Ssakow Polskie} Akademii 
Nauk. [in Polish] 145-147 

WWF Poland. 2007. Raport: Jakos¢ konsultacji spotecznych w Polsce. [report: quality of 
social consultations in Poland]. 


puejod Ul japow AJojejnsay JeEUOvEN Z7'7G 


