Research  Paper 


Biological  Science 


E-ISSN  : 2454-9916  | Volume  : 2 | Issue  : 1 | Jan  2016 


PORTFOLIO  AS  AN  ACTIVE  LEARNING  METHODOLOGY 
FOR  THE  STUDY  OF  THE  ENDOCRINE  SYSTEM 


Montrezor,  LH 12  | Brancagliao,  LFC 1 | Gongalves  VM 1 | Lemos,  JES 1 | Rocha,  NF 1 | 
Marcondes,  FK 3 

1 Department  of  Biological  Science  and  Health  - Medicine,  Araraquara  University  Center  - UNIARA, 
Araraquara,  SP,  Brazil.  *Corresponding  Author 

2 Medical  Chemistry  and  Regenerative  Medicine  Group  - QUIMMERA  - UNIARA,  Araraquara,  SP, 
Brazil. 

3 Department  of  Physiological  Sciences,  Piracicaba  Dental  School  - University  of  Campinas  - UNICAMP, 
Piracicaba,  SP,  Brazil. 


ABSTRACT 


The  goal  of  this  study  was  to  use  a portfolio  regarding  the  physiology  of  the  endocrine  system  for  second-yearmedical  students  (n=125)  as 
an  active  methodology  in  the  teaching-learning  process.  Moreover,  the  portfolio  was  used  as  reference  material  for  the  cognitive  monitor- 
ing test  (CMT) . The  students  were  divided  into  groups  and  instructed  to  organize  a portfolio  with  7 cards  containing  7 topics  about  the  pro- 
posed subject.  Later,  the  students  answered  two  questions  about  the  teaching  methodology  applied:  l)How  did  you  evaluate  the  portfo- 
lio? 2)  Did  the  activity  aid  in  your  learning  process?  Why?  The  results  demonstrate  that  most  students  (92.8%)  thought  that  the  portfolio 
was  effective  teaching  and  learning  tool  while  7.2%  of  students  reported  that  the  methodology  usedwas  not  important.  The  majority  of 
the  scores  (76.05%)  for  the  test  were  above  50%  of  the  possible  total  score  for  the  CMT  (5.0  to  6.9)  from  the  students  that  knew  they  would 
be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio.  Additionally,  the  majority  of  the  scores  (92.6%)  for  test  were  above  the  course  average  (7.0)  from  the  stu- 
dents that  did  not  know  they  would  be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio.In  face  of  the  results  obtained  from  students'  opinions  and  by  analyz- 
ing the  CMT  scores,  we  can  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  use  of  the  portfolio  as  an  active  methodology  in  the  teaching-learning  process 
for  second-year  medicalstudents  has  encouraged  the  search  for  knowledge  and  has  allowed  for  an  active  construction  for  learning  about 
the  endocrine  systemphysiology,  besides  developing  in  each  student  the  ability  to  debate  and  share  the  knowledge  in  the  group  and 
among  groups. 

KEYWORDS:  Graduate  Education,  Active  learning,  Portfolio,  Physiology,  Endocrine  system. 


INTRODUCTION 

In  Brazil,  and  many  other  countries,  there  has  been  a discussion 
concerning  the  necessity  for  adjustments  and  changes  in  the  medi- 
cal training  (Nair  and  Webster,  2010;  Gomes  and  Rego,  2011).  Med- 
ical education  should  no  longer  focus  on  technical  ability  as  its  one 
and  only  goal,  despite  its  relative  importance.  Throughout  the 
course  of  a medical  education,  other  aspects  should  also  be 
addressed,  such  the  speed  of  information  transfer,  the  use  of  infor- 
mation and  communication  technologies  as  management 
resources,  continuing  education,  the  ethics  and  the  commitment  to 
good  citizenship  (Gomes  and  Rego,  2011). 

Generally,  active  learning  is  the  process  of  engaging  students  in  an 
activity  that  forces  them  to  reflect  upon  ideas  and  how  they  are 
using  those  ideas.  This  method  requires  students  to  regularly 
assess  their  own  degree  of  understanding  and  skill  regarding  cer- 
tain concepts  or  problems  in  a particular  discipline.  Consequently, 
students  are  mentally,  and  often  physically,  engaged  in  their 
learning  through  activities  that  require  information,  gathering, 
thinking,  and  problem  solving  (Ghosh,  2007).  This  method  pre- 
vents the  simple  transfer  and  repetition  of  knowledge  between 
instructor  and  student.  As  Michael  said  “there  is  evidence  that 
active  learning,  student-centered  approaches  to  teaching  physiol- 
ogy work,  and  they  work  better  than  more  passive  approaches. 
There  is  no  single  definitive  experiment  to  prove  this,  nor  can 
there  be  given  the  nature  of  the  phenomena  at  work,  but  the  very 
multiplicity  of  sources  of  evidence  makes  the  arguments  compel- 
ling” (Michael,  2006). 


Studies  prove  that  the  transition  from  medical  student  to  the 
recently  graduated  doctor  is  very  stressful  (Pitkala  and 
Mantyranta,  2003;  Luthy  et  al.,  2004).  Insufficient  preparations 
during  medical  school  and  the  lack  of  qualified  support  during  the 
beginning  of  the  professional  activities  are  important  factors  that 
contribute  to  this  stressful  transition  (Luthy  et  al.,  2004).  For  that 
reason,  activities  such  as  using  active  methodologies  in  associa- 
tion with  traditional  strategies  during  medical  education  can  posi- 
tively impact  student  development  because  during  their  training 
they  were  constantly  encourage  to  participate  in  the  search  and 
the  construction  of  knowledge. 

We  employed  active  learning  techniques  in  a typical  physiology 
course  that  involved  the  nervous,  endocrine,  cardiovascular,  respi- 
ratory, renal,  digestive  and  reproductive  systems.  We  initially 
used  brainstorming  followed  by  conceptual  maps,  question-and- 
answer  games,  dramas,  memory  games,  puzzles  (Marcondes  et  al., 
2015)  and  portfolio  creation  as  well  as  other  activities  such  as  semi- 
nars and  practical  classes  using  computer  simulations. 

The  portfolio  is  a set  of  information  (texts,  pictures,  diagrams, 
tables,  charts,  schemes,  photos)  produced  by  student  over  a certain 
period  of  time  and  on  a particular  subject.  When  this  collection  of 
information  is  well  organized  it  becomes  a great  reference  mate- 
rial for  study  as  well  as  can  be  used  as  an  evaluation  tool.  It  pro- 
motes reflective  development  of  the  student,  stimulates  the  con- 
ceptual enrichments  process,  and  contributes  to  the  self- 
construction of  knowledge.  Portfolios  have  long  been  used  in 
nonclinical  fields  including  education,  arts,  and  architecture. 


International  Education  & Research  Journal  [IERJ] 


42 


Research  Paper 


More  recently,  there  has  been  a push  to  use  portfolios  across  the 
continuum  of  medical  education  (Nagler  et  al.,  2009).  Portfolios 
have  been  used  in  medical  educational  as  a pedagogical  tool  with 
multiple  implementations  towards  different  goals  (Buckely  et  al., 
2009;  Tochel  et  al.,  2009).  Some  educational  programs  report  using 
formative  portfolios  to  encourage  trainees  to  reflect  on  their  learn- 
ing (Rees  and  Sheard,  2004;  Driessen  et  al.,  2005),  whereas  others 
use  cumulative  portfolios  to  inform  decisions  of  student  promotion 
to  further  levels  of  study  (Davis  et  al.,  2001;  Dannefer  and  Henson, 
2007). 

The  goal  of  this  study  was  to  use  a portfolio  regarding  the  physiol- 
ogy of  the  endocrine  system  as  an  active  study  methodology,  with- 
out evaluation  intent,  for  second-year  medical  students.  Later,  the 
portfolio  built  by  the  groups  was  used  as  reference  material  for  the 
cognitive  monitoring  test  (CMT). 

METHODS 

Second  year  medical  school  students  (n  = 125;  seventy-one  stu- 
dents were  warned  before  the  CMT  that  would  be  allowed  to  con- 
sult the  portfolio,  and  fifty-four  students  did  not  know  they  would 
be  allowed  to  consult  the  portfolio)  were  randomly  divided  into 
groups  of  4 students  each.  Each  group  was  instructed  to  prepare  a 
portfolio  composed  of  7 cards  describing  the  following  information 
for  each  hormone  or  group  of  hormone  of  interest:  hormone  classifi- 
cation (protein,  peptide  or  steroid);  hormone  production  site  (endo- 
crine gland,  neuron,  endocrine  cell);  main  physiological  mecha- 
nisms related  to  control  of  hormone  secretion;  hormone  mecha- 
nism of  action  on  target  cells;  main  hormone  regulated  organic 
actions;  hormone  importance  and  clinical  correlations,  and  lastly, 
two  to  three  incomplete  or  incorrect  sources  of  information  found 
on  the  Internet. 


E-ISSN  : 2454-9916  | Volume  : 2 | Issue  : 1 | Jan  2016 


and  a control  group  for  students  that  did  not  know  they  would  be 
allowed  to  consult  the  portfolio. 

The  CMT  questions  were  created  using  the  same  criteria  and  ques- 
tions that  students  had  answered  in  other  evaluation  tests  during 
the  course.  The  questions  (five  open  questions)  were  based  on  real 
clinical  cases,  focusing  on  the  hormone  physiology  compiled  on  the 
portfolio  cards.  The  time  available  for  completing  the  CMT  was 
four  hours.  Students  were  advised  that  a higher  technical  quality 
of  answers  was  expected  because  the  test  was  performed  in  groups 
and  consultation  with  the  portfolio  was  allowed,  except  for  the  con- 
trol group. 

The  CMT  scores  achieved  by  the  groups  were  separated  into  three 
sets:  0 to  4.9;  5.0  to  6.9  and  7.0  to  10.0.  The  scores  were  grouped 
together  under  this  criteria  to  identify  students  with  below  50% 
efficiency  on  the  test  (scores  from  0 to  4.9),  students  whose  effi- 
ciency was  higher  than  50%  (from  5.0  to  6.9),  yet  below  the  course 
average  of  7.0,  and  students  whose  efficiency  was  higher  than  the 
course  average  (scores  from  7.0  to  10.0). 

To  provide  students  with  feedback  during  the  first  class  following 
the  CMT.  we  reviewed  the  test  questions  with  the  students  and 
asked  them  to  discuss  two  questions  related  to  portfolio  usage:  1) 
How  did  you  evaluate  the  portfolio?  2)  Did  the  activity  aid  in  your 
learning  process?  Why?  The  questions  were  answered  individually 
and  the  papers  were  handed  to  the  teacher. 

During  the  two  weeks  after  the  activity,  there  were  discussions 
with  debates  during  the  lecture  concerning  all  hormones  included 
in  portfolios.  Consequently,  students  discussed  the  physiology  of 
the  endocrine  system  prior  to  the  theoretical  classes. 


The  following  hormones  were  assigned  for  each  portfolio:  1 - 
Growth  hormone  (GH);  2 - Vasopressin  or  Antidiuretic  hormone 
(ADH);  3 - Prolactin  (PRL)  and  Oxytocin  (OT);  4 - Thyrotropin- 
releasing hormone  (TRH),  Thyroid-stimulating  hormone  (TSH), 
Tetraiodothyronine  (T„)  and  Triiodothyronine  (Ta);  5 - Parathyroid 
hormone  (PTH),  Calcitonin  and  Vitamin  D3;  6 - Insulin  and 
Glucagon  and  7 — Corticotropin-releasing  hormone 
(CRH), Adrenocorticotropic  hormone  (ACTH),  Cortisol  and 
Aldosterone. 

The  portfolio  was  organized  into  7 cards,  each  of  which  contained 
the  information  listed  above  for  each  hormone  or  group  of  hor- 
mone. For  example:  Card  1 - Growth  hormone:  classification;  pro- 
duction site;  main  mechanisms  related  to  control  of  secretion; 
mechanisms  of  action;  main  organic  actions;  clinical  correlations 
involving  GH  and  incomplete  or  incorrect  information  found  on  the 
Internet. 

Students  were  allowed  to  use  the  current  literature  of  the  field, 
clinical  textbooks  related  to  the  theme  of  the  clinical  correlation, 
indexed  journals  and  the  Internet.  The  portfolio  could  include  text, 
pictures,  diagrams,  tables  and  photos.  The  time  available  for  the 
groups  to  prepare  the  portfolio  included  time  spent  in  a physiology 
class  over  two  weeks  (12  hours),  so  that  the  activity  would  not  con- 
flict with  the  students'  free  time  for  studying  and  resting.  The 
groups  were  encouraged  to  complete  the  portfolios  during  class- 
room time  so  that  any  questions  could  be  quickly  discussed  with 
the  teacher. 

The  CMT  is  one  of  the  assessments  we  use  in  the  medical  school 
curriculum  at  our  school.  Four  CMT  are  held  during  each  semester 
of  the  course  between  the  first  and  the  eighth  semesters.  The  CMT 
was  held  five  days  after  students  finish  portfolios.  On  the  day  of 
the  CMT,  each  two  groups  (each  n = 4)  were  randomly  combined 
into  one  (n  = 8)  and  the  students  were  allowed  to  use  only  one  port- 
folio of  either  group  for  reference,  except  for  groups  that  were  not 
allowed  to  consult  the  portfolio  (control  groups):  a control  group  for 
students  that  knew  they  would  be  allowed  to  consult  the  portfolio, 


Statistical  analysis 

Data  from  CMT  scores  were  analyzed  by  one-way  ANOVA  for 
repeated  measures  and  Tukey's  test.  Statistical  analyses  were  per- 
formed using  Sigma  Stat  (Systat  Software,  Point  Richmond,  CA, 
USA)  with  a significant  level  set  at  5%  (P<  0.05). 

RESULTS 

According  to  student  responses  regarding  the  portfolio,  92.8%  (n  = 
116)  of  students  believed  the  activity  were  important  for  their 
knowledge  concerning  the  physiology  of  the  endocrine  system  and 
7.2%  (n  = 9)  of  students  reported  that  the  methodology  used  was 
not  important. 

Based  on  the  CMT  scores  obtained  from  students  that  knew  they 
would  be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio,  nine  students  (12.7%)  scored 

7.0  to  10.0  (average  = 8.6)  and  fifty-four  students  (76.05%)  scored 

5.0  to  6.9  (average  = 6.3).  No  student  scored  between  0 and  4.9,  and 
eight  students  of  the  control  group  (11.26%)  scored  5.0  to  6.9  (aver- 
age = 5.2).  A significantly  greater  number  of  students  scored 
between  5.0  and  6.9  than  did  between  0 and  4.9  or  7.0  and  10.0  (P  < 
0.05).  Based  on  the  CMT  scores  obtained  from  students  that  did 
not  know  they  would  be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio,  fifty  students 
(92.6%)  scored  7.0  to  10.0  (average  = 8.9)  and  four  students  (7.4%) 
from  the  control  group  scored  5. 0 to  6. 9 (average  = 5.1)  (P<0.05). 

In  addition  to  the  questions  posed  to  all  students,  the  participants 
could  make  suggestions  and  criticize  the  use  of  the  portfolio.  Three 
positive  points  (93%)  were  repeatedly  mentioned  by  many  stu- 
dents: the  active  participation  of  the  group  members  during  port- 
folio preparation;  the  possibility  to  correlate  physiology  with  other 
disciplines  from  the  basic  sciences,  such  as  anatomy,  cell  biology 
and  biochemistry;  and  the  possibility  to  create  group  discussion 
during  the  CMT.  Moreover,  four  negative  reviews  (46%)  were  men- 
tioned by  most  students:  the  selection  of  the  group  members 
should  not  be  random  as  students  prefer  to  choose  whom  they  work 
with;  the  time  available  for  the  creation  of  the  portfolio  should  be 
longer;  the  content  (topics)  should  be  more  concise;  and  finally,  the 
portfolio  should  be  discussed  after  each  of  the  theoretical  classes 


43 


International  Education  & Research  Journal  [IERJ] 


Research  Paper 


E-ISSN  : 2454-9916  | Volume  : 2 | Issue  : 1 | Jan  2016 


concerning  the  proposed  subject. 

DISCUSSION 

This  study  concerning  the  use  of  a portfolio  as  an  active  methodol- 
ogy in  the  teaching-learning  process  regarding  endocrine  system 
physiology  for  second-year  medical  school  students  has  shown  the 
portfolio  to  be  a significant  teaching  resource.  Physiology  is  consid- 
ered as  the  basis  of  a rational  medical  practice  (West,  2002). 
Understanding  the  mechanisms  of  the  body  requires  a high  level  of 
integration,  not  just  a descriptive  approach  (Evrenius  et  al.,  2007). 
Because  of  this,  teachers  and  students  are  attempting  to  develop 
and  improve  teaching  methods  for  medical  education.  During  the 
portfolio  preparation,  students  identified  the  importance  of  under- 
standing the  physiological  mechanisms  related  to  the  endocrine 
system.  Students  also  became  aware  of  the  importance  of  integrat- 
ing physiology  and  other  disciplines  in  the  basic  sciences,  such  as 
anatomy,  biochemistry  and  cell  biology,  in  order  to  better  under- 
stand the  functional  mechanisms  of  the  human  body. 

Students  had  nearly  unanimous  reactions  to  the  proposal  of  this 
assignment  with  many  complaining  that  the  activity  would  be  too 
laborious,  the  time  would  be  insufficient  for  completion  and  work- 
ing in  groups  would  cause  conflicts.  Practically  all  students  dis- 
cussed their  questions  within  their  group  members  and  also  con- 
sulted with  the  teacher  many  times  for  clarification.  The  results 
from  previous  assignments,  where  active  methodologies  were  also 
used  in  the  teaching-learning  process,  reveal  responses  that  are 
similar  to  the  ones  obtained  in  the  current  work  (Montrezor,  2014). 

In  the  study  of  physiology  in  medical  schools,  many  types  of  tools 
for  conceptual  understanding  are  used  to  improve  learning.  In 
past  teaching  programs,  students  were  passive  receivers  of  knowl- 
edge, mainly  through  theoretical  courses.  However,  we  now  have 
new  methods  including  active  learning  forms,  especially  coopera- 
tive ones  that  have  been  associated  with  numerous  additional  posi- 
tive effects.  These  desirable  effects  are  increased  student  engage- 
ment (Smith  et  al.,  2005).  Our  results  confirm  that  students  have 
identified  the  value  of  actively  building  knowledge  using  the  port- 
folio as  an  educational  tool.  Many  studies  have  demonstrated  the 
efficacy  of  the  portfolio  as  an  evaluation  mechanism  (Campbell  et 
al.,  1996;  Kalet  et  al.,  2007;  Nagler  et  al.,  2009;  Bierer  and 
Dannefer,  2011).  The  present  study  did  not  use  the  portfolio  as  an 
evaluation  tool;  however,  the  portfolio  was  significant  as  an  active 
methodology  in  the  learning  process,  especially  for  the  student 
that  did  not  know  they  could  be  allowed  portfolio  consultation. 

Despite  the  fact  the  portfolio  was  not  used  as  an  evaluation  tool,  in 
this  study  the  students  used  it  as  a reference  material  during  the 
CMT  on  endocrine  physiology.  The  CMT  scores  from  the  students 
that  knew  they  would  be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio  were  below 
our  expectations.  Most  students  scored  between  5.0  and  6.9;  there- 
fore, even  though  most  students  accomplished  over  50%  of  the 
CMT,  we  expected  higher  scores  based  on  the  fact  that  the  stu- 
dents could  consult  portfolio.  Because  students  had  been  previ- 
ously informed  they  would  be  allowed  to  use  the  portfolio  as  a ref- 
erence material,  we  believe  most  of  them  did  not  adequately  pre- 
pare for  the  test.  The  fact  students  knew  they  could  check  the  port- 
folio could  have  discouraged  them  to  study  in  advance  for  the  test. 
It  is  clear  when  compared  to  the  students  that  did  not  know  they 
would  be  allowed  to  consult  portfolio  as  a reference  material  dur- 
ing the  CMT.  It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  answers  given  by  stu- 
dents in  the  CMT  were  not  incorrect  from  a technical  standpoint, 
but  they  were  incomplete  according  to  standard. 

The  utilization  of  the  portfolio  was  proposed  to  students  before  the- 
oretical classes  on  endocrine  system  physiology.  This  teaching 
strategy  to  encourage  students  to  develop  portfolio  before  the  lec- 
tures, in  association  with  the  fact  that  one  group  of  students  did 
not  study  prior  to  the  CMT,  could  have  contributed  to  the  low 
scores  obtained  in  the  test.  However,  when  theoretical  classes 
occurred  after  the  CMT,  we  noticed  active  student  participation 


similar  to  the  active  participation  within  the  groups  during  portfo- 
lio preparation.  Classes  were  conducted  in  the  form  of  a debate  as 
opposed  to  the  conventional  model  where  the  teacher  presents  the 
subject  while  students  passively  listen.  Many  studies  have  indi- 
cated that  active  forms  of  learning  are  more  effective  than  the  tra- 
ditional lecture,  which  is  considered  to  be  a more  passive  form  of 
learning  (Bowen,  2000;  Knight  and  Wood,  2005;  Armbruster  et  al., 
2009).  In  particular,  the  advantages  of  active  learning  have  been 
emphasized  with  regard  to  conceptual  understanding  (Smith  et 
al.,  2005;  Armbruster  et  al.,  2009).  Moreover,  relative  to  passive 
learning,  active  learning  approaches,  especially  cooperative  ones, 
have  been  associated  with  a great  number  of  positive  effects.  Some 
of  these  desirable  effects  include:  increased  student  engagement 
(Lord,  2001;  Smith  et  al.,  2005;  Armbruster  et  al.,  2009),  elevated 
self-confidence  and  improved  self-perceived  competence  (Lord, 
2001;  Smith  etal.,  2005). 

Active  versus  passive  learning  is  not  a simple  dichotomy.  A com- 
mon factor  in  most  articles  on  active  learning  is  the  suggestion 
that  the  traditional  didactic  lecture  is  more  passive  in  nature  and 
less  effective  as  a teaching  tool  when  compared  with  active  learn- 
ing methods.  Even  after  the  discussion  and  the  exposure  of  the  ben- 
efits of  portfolio  as  active  methodology  some  students  (n  = 9 (7.2%)) 
preferred  the  traditional  teaching  methodology  where  the  instruc- 
tor presents  the  subject  in  the  form  of  typical  theoretical  classes. 
However,  a well-organized  lecture  remains  one  of  the  most  effec- 
tive ways  to  integrate  and  present  information  from  multiple 
sources  on  complex  topics,  such  as  those  often  encountered  in  the 
teaching  of  physiology  (Richardson,  2008). 

Healthcare  systems  in  emerging  market  economies  are  undergo- 
ing economic,  political  and  social  transitions.  Reforms  in  the 
healthcare  system  need  to  be  complemented  by  adequate  educa- 
tion. The  current  education  system  requires  updates  via  need- 
based  comprehensive  curriculum  design  and  innovative  teaching 
methods  (Nair  and  Webster,  2010).  Brennan  et  al.  (2010)  proposed 
a study  to  understand  how  junior  doctors'  experience  the  transi- 
tion from  the  role  of  student  to  that  of  practicing  doctor  and  how 
well  their  medical  school  education  had  prepared  them.  Tradition- 
ally, medicine  has  been  a hierarchical  profession  in  which  senior 
doctors  wield  considerable  power  over  junior  doctors  (Brennan  et 
al.,  2010).  Our  medical  school  has  a modular  and  integrated  curric- 
ulum. From  the  first  year  of  study,  students  are  encouraged  to 
think  in  an  integrated  manner  among  the  basic  areas  of  study  and 
to  comprehend  the  importance  of  such  areas  for  clinical  education. 
One  of  the  topics  included  in  the  cards  of  the  portfolio  was  the  cor- 
relation between  endocrine  system  physiology  and  clinical  out- 
comes. Thus  students  are  encouraged  to  understand  the  operation 
of  a normal  organism  so  that  they  will  have  the  required  knowl- 
edge to  understand  the  modules  where  they  will  learn  pathology 
and  clinical  issues  that  may  arise  from  deviations  in  the  normal 
organ  function. 

Teamwork  is  constantly  emphasized  in  our  medical  school  curricu- 
lum during  numerous  educational  activities.  The  importance  of 
teamwork  is  impressed  upon  students  starting  in  the  first  year. 
For  educational  activities  where  active  methodologies  are  applied 
in  the  course  of  physiology,  students  are  often  organized  in  groups 
randomly,  including  this  current  assignment.  The  importance  of 
working  in  multidisciplinary  teams  is  constantly  explained  to  stu- 
dents, especially  first-year  students.  Tomorrow's  Doctors  is  an 
United  Kingdom  program  that  emphasizes  the  importance  of  work- 
ing as  a team  in  a multi-professional  environment  and  how  medi- 
cal school  should  explore  and,  where  appropriate,  provide  opportu- 
nities for  students  to  work  and  learn  with,  from  and  about  other 
health  and  social  care  professionals  (GMC,  2009).  Brennan  et  al. 
(2010),  showed  that  such  experiences  varied  greatly  in  terms  of 
teamwork  and  the  level  of  support  provided. 

Finally,  one  of  the  portfolio  topics  required  students  to  search 
online  for  incorrect  and/or  incomplete  information  about  the  pro- 


International  Education  & Research  Journal  [IERJ] 


44 


Research  Paper 


E-ISSN  : 2454-9916  | Volume  : 2 | Issue  : 1 | Jan  2016 


posed  subject.  The  goal  of  this  topic  was  to  advise  students  to  be 
alert  and  cautious  with  information  obtained  from  websites  that 
are  not  scientific  in  the  area  of  physiology.  We  know  students  are 
frequently  connected  through  their  laptops,  tablets  and 
smartphones.  Therefore,  due  to  the  availability  of  voluminous 
information  on  the  Internet  and  the  easy  and  quick  access  stu- 
dents have  to  such  information  through  their  devices,  it  is  crucial 
to  advise  them  to  use  this  information  carefully  beginning  in  the 
first-year  of  medical  school.  There  are  excellent  quality  data  avail- 
able online,  but  it  is  important  to  know  where  to  find  such  quality 
information. 

We  agree  with  and  share  the  ideas  proposed  by  Volpe  (1984),  “Pub- 
lic understanding  of  science  is  appalling.  The  major  contributor  to 
society's  stunning  ignorance  of  science  has  been  our  education  sys- 
tem. The  inability  of  students  to  appreciate  the  scope,  meaning, 
and  limitations  of  science  reflects  our  conventional  lecture- 
oriented  curriculum  with  emphasis  on  passive  learning.  The  stu- 
dent's traditional  role  is  that  of  a passive  note-taker  and 
regurgitator  of  factual  information.  What  is  urgently  needed  is  an 
educational  program  in  which  students  become  interested  in 
actively  knowing,  rather  than  passively  believing”.  We  can  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  use  of  the  portfolio  as  an  active  methodol- 
ogy in  the  teaching-learning  process  for  second-year  medical  stu- 
dents has  encouraged  the  search  for  knowledge  and  has  allowed 
for  an  active  construction  for  learning  about  the  endocrine  system 
physiology,  besides  developing  in  each  student  the  ability  to 
debate  and  share  the  knowledge  in  the  group  and  among  groups. 
At  our  medical  school,  we  have  been  working  hard  to  develop  a 
high  quality  educational  approach  to  form  students  who  are  active 
in  the  teaching-learning  process  so  that  through  such  practice  they 
can  become  qualified,  competent  and  fair  professionals  who  are 
respectful  to  others. 

Acknowledgments:  The  authors  wish  to  tank  Dr.  Jorge  Alberto 
Aschcar  for  the  statistical  analysis. 

Funding/Support:  FUNADESP;  CNPq. 

Conflict  of  interest:  The  author  declares  not  to  have  any  conflict 
of interests. 

Other  disclosures:  “none” 

Ethical  approval:  “none” 

Previous  presentations:  An  abstract  of  this  work  was  presented 
as  a poster  in  Joinvile  city,  PR,  Brazil  (October  31“  to  November  3rd, 
2014),  during  the  52‘d  Brazilin  Medical  Education  Congress 
(COBEM). 

REFERENCES 

1.  Armbruster,  P.,  Patel,  M.,  Johnson,  E.  and  Weiss,  M.  (2009). 
Active  learning  and  student-centered  pedagogy  improve  stu- 
dent attitudes  and  performance  in  introductory  biology.  CBE 
Life  SciEduc  8:203-213. 

2.  Bierer,  S.B.  and  Dannefer,  E.F.  (2011).  Does  students'  gender, 
citizenship,  or  verbal  ability  affect  fairness  of  portfolio-based 
promotion  decisions?  Results  from  one  medical  school.  Aca- 
demic Medicine  86(6):773-777. 

3.  Bowen,  C.W.  (2000).  A quantitative  literature  review  of  coop- 
erative learning  effects  on  high  school  and  college  chemistry 
achievement.  J Chem  Educa  77:116-119. 

4.  Brennan,  N.,  Corrigan,  O.,  Allard,  J.,  Archer,  J.,  Barnes,  R., 
Bleakley,  A.,  Collett,  T.  and  de  Bere,  S.R.  (2010).  The  transi- 
tion from  medical  student  to  junior  doctor:  today's  experiences 
of  tomorrow's  doctors.  Medical  Education  44:449-458. 

5.  Buckely,  S.,  Coleman,  J.  and  Davison,  I.  (2009).  The  education 


effects  of  portfolios  on  undergraduate  student  learning:  A Best 
Evidence  Medical  Education  (BEME)  systematic  review. 
BEME  Guide  No.  1 1 . Med  Teach  31:340-355. 

6.  Campbell  C.M.,  Parboosingh,  J.T.,  Gondocz,  S.T.,  Babitskaya, 
G.,  Lindsay,  E.,  Guzman,  R.C.  and  Klein,  L.M.  (1996).  Self- 
Education  for  Professionals:  Study  of  physicians'  use  of  a soft- 
ware program  to  create  a portfolio  of  their  self-directed  learn- 
ing. Academic  Medicine  71(10):S49-S51. 

7.  Dannefer,  E.F.  and  Henson,  L.C.  (2007).  The  portfolio 
approach  to  competency-based  assessment  at  the  Cleveland 
Clinic  Lerner  College  of  Medicine.  Acad  Med  82:493-502. 

8.  Davis,  M.H.,  Friedman,  Ben-Davi.  M.  and  Harden,  R.M. 
(2001).  Portfolio  assessment  in  medical  student'  final  exami- 
nations. Med  Teach  23:357-366. 

9.  Driessen,  E.W.,  van  Tartwizk,  J.,  Overeem,  K.,  Vermunt,  J.D. 
and  van  der  Vleuten,  C.P.M.  (2005).  Conditional  for  successful 
reflective  use  of  portfolios  in  undergraduate  medical  educa- 
tion. Med  Edu  39:1230-1235. 

10.  Evrenius,  A.,  Silen,  C.  and  Wirell,  S.  (2007).  Students'  concep- 
tions of  underlying  principles  in  medical  physiology:  an  inter- 
view study  of  medical  students'  understanding  in  a PBL  cur- 
riculum. Adv  Physiol  Educ  31:364-369. 

11.  General  Medical  Council.  (2009).  Tomorrow's  Doctors. 
Londom:  GMC. 

12.  Ghosh,  S.  (2007).  Combination  of  didactic  lectures  and  case- 
oriented  problem-solving  tutorials  toward  better  learning:  per- 
ceptions of  students  from  a conventional  medical  curriculum. 
Advan  PhysiolEduc31:193-197. 

13.  Gomes,  A.P.  and  Rego,  S.  (2011).  Transformation  of  Medical 
Education:  Can  a New  Physician  be  Trained  based  on  Changes 
in  the  Teaching-Leaning  Method?  Braz  J Med  Educ  35:557- 
566. 

14.  Kalet,  A.L.,  Sanger,  J.,  Chase,  J.,  Keller,  A.,  Schwartz,  M.D., 
Fishman,  M.L.,  Garfall,  A.L.  and  Kitay,  A.  (2007).  Promoting 
professionalism  through  an  online  professional  development 
portfolio:  successes,  joys,  and  frustrations.  Academic  Medicine 
82(11):1065-1072. 

15.  Knight,  J.K.  and  Wood,  W.B.  (2005).  Teaching  more  by  lectur- 
ingless. Cell  Biol  Educ  4:298-310. 

16.  Lord.T.R.  (2001).  101  reasons  for  using  cooperative  learning  in 
biology  teaching.  Am  Biol  Teach  63:30-38. 

17.  Luthy,  C.,  Pirrier,  A.,  Perrin,  E.,  Cedraschi,  C.  and  Allaz,  A.F. 
(2004).  Exploring  the  major  difficulties  perceived  by  residents 
in  training:  a pilot  study.  Swiss  Med  Wkly  134:612-617. 

18.  Marcondes,  F.K.,  Moura,  M.J.C.S.,  Sanches,  A.,  Costa,  R., 
Lima,  P.O.,  Groppo,  F.C.,  Amaral,  M.E.C.,  Zeni,  P.,  Gaviao, 
K.C.  and  Montrezor,  L.H.  (2015).  A puzzle  user  to  teach  a car- 
diac cycle.  Advan  Physiol  Educ  39:27-31. 

19.  Michael,  J.  (2006).  Where's  the  evidence  that  active  learning 
works?  Advan  Physiol  Educ  30:159-167. 

20.  Montrezor,  L.H.  (2014).  The  synaptic  challenge.  Advan 
Physiol  Educ  38:187-190. 

21.  Nagler,  A.,  Andolsek,  K.  and  Padmore,  J.S.  (2009).  The  unin- 
tended consequences  of  portfolios  in  graduate  medical  educa- 
tion. Academic  Medicine  84(11):  1522-1526. 

22.  Nair,  M.  and  Webster,  P.  (2010).  Education  for  health  profes- 
sionals in  the  emerging  market  economies:  a literature  review. 
Medical  Education  44:856-863. 

23.  Pitkala,  K.H.  and  Mantyranta,  T.  (2003).  Professional  social- 
ization revised:  medical  students'  own  conception  related  to 
adoption  of  the  future  physicians  role  - a quantitative  study. 
Med  Teach  25:155-160. 


45 


International  Education  & Research  Journal  [IERJ] 


Research  Paper 


E-ISSN  : 2454-9916  | Volume  : 2 | Issue  : 1 | Jan  2016 


24.  Rees,  C.E.  and  Sheard,  C.E.  (2004).  The  reliability  of  assess- 
ment criteria  for  undergraduate  medical  students'  communi- 
cation skills  portfolio:  The  Nottingham  experience.  Med  Educ 
38:128-144. 

25.  Richardson,  D.  (2008).  Don't  dump  the  didactic  lecture;  fix  it. 
Adv  Physiol  Educ  32:23-24. 

26.  Smith,  K.S.,  Sheppard,  S.D.,  Johnson,  D.W.  and  Johnson,  R.T. 
(2005).  Pedagogies  of  engagement:  classroom-based  practices. 
J Eng  Educ  94:87-101. 

27.  Tochel,  C.,  Haig,  A.  and  Hesketh,  A.  (2009).  The  effectiveness 
of  portfolios  for  post-graduate  assessment  and  education: 
BEME  Guide  No.  12.  Med  Teach  31:320-329. 

28.  Volpe,  E.P.  (1984).  The  shame  of  science  education.  Am  Zoolo- 
gist 24:433-441. 

29.  West,  J.B.  (2002).  Through  on  teaching  physiology  to  medical 
students  in  2002.  Physiologist  45:389-393. 


International  Education  & Research  Journal  [IERJ] 


46 


