IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Humanities,  Arts  and  Literature  (IMPACT:  LJRHAL) 
ISSN(E):  2321-8878;  ISSN(P):  2347-4564 
Vol.  2,  Issue  9,  Sep  2014, 113-118 
©  Impact  Journals 

SPEECH  DEVELOPMENT  OF  PRIMARY  SCHOOL  CHILDREN 

SALIMA  SAGINOVNA  SEITENOVA  &  ARM  ARM.  SATYBAEVNA  ABIL 

K.  Zhubanov  Aktobe  State  Regional  University,  Aktobe,  Kazakhstan 

ABSTRACT 

In  this  article  the  author  contemplates  certain  peculiarities  of  organization  of  work  on  speech  development  in  the 
process  of  education  in  primary  school.  The  speech  development  of  primary  schoolchildren  is  the  entire  work  undertaken 
by  the  teacher  specifically  for  the  pupils  to  master  the  language  rules,  as  well  as  to  have  the  ability  to  express  their  ideas 
orally  and  in  written  form,  by  using  appropriate  language  means  in  accordance  with  the  purpose,  content  and  conditions  of 
speech  communication. 

KEYWORDS:  Language  Development,  Brain  Building,  Language  Learning,  Clear  Articulation,  Pronouncing  Distinct 
Sounds,  Compliance  with  Proper  Rules  of  Orthoepy,  Oral  and  Written  Expressions,  Speech  Impediments 

INTRODUCTION 

In  order  to  become  highly  educated  person,  one  should  possess  all  the  riches  of  his  native  language. 
Therefore,  one  of  the  main  tasks  of  primary  school  is  the  formation  of  correct  speech  of  primary  schoolchildren  [1]. 

Definitely,  the  development  of  a  child's  speech  is  a  complex  and  varied  process.  It  occurs  with  periods  of  rapid 
splash  and  a  temporary  lull,  and  includes  many  psychical  processes,  and  in  its  turn  influences  to  the  development  of 
thinking,  cognitive  processes  (memory,  attention,  sensation,  perception),  on  cognition  in  general. 

That  is  why  the  most  important  supposition  for  the  solution  of  the  speech  tasks  in  primary  school  is  proper 
organization  of  setting  in  which  the  children  would  have  a  desire  to  talk,  to  call  the  surroundings,  to  enter  into  verbal 
communication. 

According  to  the  guiding  principles  underlay  the  CoE  language  education  policy: 

•  Language  learning  is  for  all:  opportunities  for  developing  their  plurilingual  repertoire  is  a  necessity  for  all  citizens 
in  contemporary  Europe; 

•  Language  learning  is  for  the  learner,  it  should  be  based  on  worthwhile,  realistic  objectives  reflecting  needs, 
interests,  motivation,  abilities; 

•  Language  learning  is  for  intercultural  communication:  it  is  crucial  for  ensuring  successful  interaction  across 
linguistic  and  cultural  boundaries  and  developing  openness  to  the  plurilingual  repertoire  of  others; 

•  Language  learning  is  for  life:  it  should  develop  learner  responsibility  and  the  independence  necessary  to  respond 
to  the  challenges  of  lifelong  language  learning; 


ournais 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


114  Salima  Saginovna  Seitenova  &  Akmaral  Satybaevna  Abil  | 

•  Language  teaching  is  co-ordinated:  it  should  be  planned  as  a  whole,  covering  the  specification  of  objectives, 
the  use  of  teaching/learning  materials  and  methods,  the  assessment  of  learner  achievement,  and  the  development 
of  appropriate  convergences  between  all  languages  that  learners  have  in  their  repertoire  or  wish  to  add  to  it; 

•  Language  teaching  is  coherent  and  transparent:  policy  makers,  curriculum  designers,  textbook  authors, 
examination  bodies,  teacher  trainers,  teachers  and  learners  need  to  share  the  same  aims,  objectives  and  assessment 
criteria; 

•  Language  learning  and  teaching  are  dynamic  lifelong  processes,  responding  to  experience  as  well  as  changing 
conditions  and  use  [7]. 

Language  learning  in  primary  school  is  a  controlled  process,  and  the  teacher  has  a  tremendous  opportunity  to 
significantly  accelerate  the  speech  development  of  primary  school  children  by  means  of  a  special  organization  of  speech 
activity.  Considering  that  the  speech  is  an  activity,  it  is  necessary  then  to  teach  as  the  speech  activity. 
One  of  the  significant  differences  between  content  of  educational  speech  activity  and  the  speech  activity  under  natural 
conditions  is  that  the  goals,  motivations,  content  of  educational  speech  do  not  derive  directly  from  the  desires,  motivations 
and  activities  of  the  individual  in  the  broadest  sense,  but  they  are  set  artificially.  Therefore,  one  of  the  main  problems  of 
improvement  system  of  speech  development  is  to  correctly  set  the  topic,  to  get  interested  by  it,  to  cause  a  desire  to 
participate  in  its  discussion,  to  intensify  the  work  of  primary  school  children  [2]. 

Of  course,  in  daily  life  children  independently  use  the  speech,  but  if  they  are  left  without  adult  supervision, 
there  can  be  fixed  negative  qualities  of  speech:  slang,  expletives,  rude  intonations,  primitive  vocabulary, 
grammatical  mistakes,  etc.  At  the  same  time  ill-structured  activity,  occurring  in  the  silence  or  passive  auscultation  of 
instructions  of  teacher  also  will  not  have  noticeable  effect  on  the  speech  of  children. 

Leading  means  of  formation  and  development  under  the  conditions  of  social  upbringing  of  a  child's  speech  is 

training. 

Let's  conceive  the  general  tasks  of  the  teacher  in  the  speech  development  of  primary  school  children: 

•  To  provide  good  speech  (language)  ambiance  (adult  speech  perception,  reading  books,  etc.); 

•  To  create  communicative  situations,  speech  situations  at  the  lessons,  determining  motivation  of  own  speech  of 
children,  to  develop  their  interests,  needs  and  opportunities  of  independent  speech; 

•  To  provide  pupils  proper  digestion  of  sufficient  vocabulary,  grammatical  forms,  syntactic  constructions,  logical 
connections,  to  intensify  the  use  of  words,  forms  of  education,  building  of  structures; 

•  To  maintain  a  permanent  special  work  on  speech  development  at  different  levels  of  pronunciation,  vocabulary, 
morphology,  syntax  at  the  level  of  connected  speech; 

•  To  create  in  the  class  an  atmosphere  of  struggle  for  the  high  culture  of  speech,  for  the  implementation  of  the 
requirements  for  a  good,  correct  speech; 

•  To  develop  not  only  speech-speaking,  but  also  listening  comprehension. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Speech  Development  of  Primary  School  Children 


115 


It  is  important  to  take  into  account  the  differences  of  oral  and  written  speech.  Written  speech  is  a  fundamentally 
new  kind  of  speech  that  the  child  masters  in  the  learning  process.  Acquirement  of  written  speech  with  its  properties 
(uncoiling  and  connectivity,  structural  complexity)  constructs  the  ability  of  premeditated  exposition  of  one's  thought, 
i.e.  contributes  to  arbitrary  and  conscious  performance  of  speech.  Written  speech  principally  complicates  the  structure  of 
communication,  since  it  opens  up  the  opportunity  to  contact  with  the  absent  interlocutor.  Language  development  requires  a 
long,  painstaking  systematic  work  of  primary  school  children  and  teachers. 

The  quality  of  further  training  and  education  largely  depends  on  the  success  of  the  implementation  of  the  tasks  of 
speech  development. 

There  are  a  number  of  requirements  of  pupils'  speech. 

The  first  requirement  is  the  requirement  of  content-richness  of  speech.  One  can  speak  or  write  only  about  what 
itself  well  knows.  Only  then  the  story  of  pupil  will  be  good,  interesting  and  useful  to  himself  and  others  when  it  will  be 
constructed  on  the  knowledge  of  the  facts,  upon  observations,  when  it  will  be  transferred  a  deliberate  thoughts  and  sincere 
feelings. 

Content  for  the  conversations,  stories,  written  compositions  are  given  by  books,  pictures,  excursions, 
special  surveillance,  own  thoughts,  experiences  -  all  surrounding  of  a  child  life.  Teacher  helps  primary  school  children  to 
prepare  collected  material,  select  it  in  accordance  with  a  distinct  theme  (as  the  topic  is  limited,  the  more  can  reveal  its 
contents).  Very  important  task  of  primary  school  teachers  is  to  teach  children  to  speak  meaningfully  [3]. 

The  second  requirement  is  the  requirement  of  consistency,  sequences  and  clarity  of  speech  production. 
Good  knowledge  of  what  the  schoolchild  speaks  or  writes,  helps  him  not  to  miss  anything  of  substance,  logically  move 
from  one  part  to  another,  do  not  repeat  one  and  the  same  for  several  times.  Correct  speech  presupposes  substantiation  of 
the  conclusions  and  the  ability  not  only  to  start,  but  also  to  finish  and  complete  the  statement. 

These  first  two  requirements  relate  to  the  content  and  structure  of  speech;  the  following  requirements  relate  to  the 
speech  registration  of  oral  communications  and  written  essays. 

The  accuracy  of  the  speech  realizes  the  speaker's  and  the  writer's  ability  not  to  just  pass  the  facts,  observations, 
feelings  according  to  reality,  but  also  to  choose  for  this  purpose  the  best  language  tools  -  such  words,  combinations  that 
convey  precisely  those  traits  that  are  inherent  in  the  depicted  object.  The  accuracy  requires  wealth  of  linguistic  resources, 
their  diversity,  the  ability  to  choose  the  words  in  different  cases,  synonyms,  which  are  most  appropriate  to  the  content  of 
narrator  [9]. 

Only  then  the  speech  affects  on  reader  and  listener  with  the  required  force  when  it  is  expressive. 
Expressiveness  of  speech  is  the  ability  to  clearly  and  convincingly,  constrict  convey  a  thought,  it  is  the  ability  to  influence 
people  by  intonations,  selection  of  facts,  construction  of  the  phrase,  word  choice,  the  mood  of  the  story. 

The  clarity  of  speech  is  its  accessibility  to  those  people  to  whom  it  is  addressed.  The  speech  always  has  a 
destination.  The  speaker  or  writer  should  consider  the  intellectual  capacity,  spiritual  interests  of  the  recipient. 
Unnecessary  complexity,  congestion  of  terms,  quotes,  prettyism  always  harm  the  speech.  Selection  of  language  means 
depends  on  the  situation,  the  circumstances  of  speech:  so  that  friendly  conversation  of  boys  will  differ  significantly  from 
their  own  writings. 


Impact  Factor(JCC)=  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjoiirrials.us 


116 


Salima  Saginovna  Seitenova  &  Akmaral  Satybaevna  Abil 


Extremely  important  and  enunciative  aspect  of  the  speech  is:  clear  articulation,  distinct  pronouncing  of  sounds, 
compliance  with  proper  rules  of  orthoepy  -  pronunciation  norms  of  the  literary  language,  the  ability  to  speak  (and  read!) 
expressively,  to  possess  intonations,  pauses,  the  logical  stresses  and  etc.  The  speech  impediments,  generally  poor 
pronouncing  of  individual  speech  sounds  like  p,  ji,  c,  in,  h  (r,  1,  s,  sh,  i)  and  some  others  are  not  uncommon  through  the 
primary  school  children.  Therefore  the  technique  of  speech  development  is  closely  connected  to  speech  therapy  by 
pronunciation  practice  of  correct  deficiencies. 

Expressiveness  and  clearness  of  speech  also  suggest  its  purity,  i.e.  absence  of  unnecessary  words 
(the  so-called  expletives:  so,  then,  you  know,  so  to  speak,  etc.),  coarse  colloquial  words  and  phrases,  unnecessary  foreign 
words  and  etc.  When  students  are  involved  in  immediate  creativity  we  ask  them  to  produce  sentences  of  their  own  using 
the  new  language.  But  we  tend  to  stop  there.  In  other  words,  students  often  produce  language  one  sentence  at  a  time. 
In  personalisation  and  localisation  for  practice  purposes,  however,  we  will  want  to  be  a  bit  more  realistic  about  the  way  in 
which  language  is  used  [10]. 

Particular  importance  for  the  school  is  correctly  speech,  i.e.  compliance  with  the  literary  norm. 
Distinguish  correctness  of  grammar  (sentence  structure,  construction  of  morphological  forms),  spelling  and  punctuation  for 
writing,  and  for  oral  -  orthoepical,  pronunciation.  All  these  requirements  apply  to  the  speech  of  primary  school  children. 
A  good  speech  can  be  obtained  only  at  observance  of  whole  set  of  the  requirements  [4]. 

To  develop  speech  of  school  children  means  to  instil  in  them  a  number  of  specific  skills,  teach  them. 
Spontaneity  in  the  development  of  speech  is  unacceptable.  Let  us  call  those  skills  that  relate  to  the  speech  of  pupils. 

First,  there  is  the  ability  to  understand  and  interpret  the  theme,  to  subordinate  theme  and  design  its  disclosure 
collecting  material,  its  selection  and  arrangement,  language  tools,  the  ability  to  write  on  the  topic,  without  departing  from 
its  scope  and  adequately  disclose  the  subject,  and  at  the  same  time  to  express  their  own  attitude  to  subject. 

Secondly,  it  is  the  ability  to  collect  the  material,  to  select  what  is  most  important,  which  applies  to  the  topic  and 
best  implements  the  concept,  and  discard  secondary.  Collection  and  selection  of  material  sometimes  continues  for  a  long 
time,  requires  systematic  observations  and  even  records. 

Material  selection  takes  place  not  only  in  preparation  for  composing,  but  also  in  work  on  outlining. 
Although  in  the  latter  case  is  given  prepared  text  sample,  but  also  the  choice  of  material  is  important  here:  one  needs  to 
allocate  the  main  thing,  select  the  items  that  will  be  used  in  the  presentation,  correctly  and  in  the  correct  sequence  convey 
the  contents  of  the  text. 

Third,  it  is  the  ability  to  plan  the  work  -  first  in  general  terms  (silently  or  aloud),  then  make  a  plan, 
write  it  down  and  place  the  accumulated  and  selected  material  in  accordance  with  a  plan  to  build  your  own  story,  your 
exposition  or  essay  on  the  plan. 

Fourth,  prepare  language  tools  -  vocabulary,  phrases,  sentences  and  text  fragments,  reconcile  spelling  of  difficult 
words,  etc. 

Fifth,  to  compose  the  entire  text  -  correctly  allocate  the  time  for  composing,  to  focus  and  do  not  miss  something 
substantial,  gradually  and  consistently  deploy  own  idea  to  build  sentences  and  connect  them  to  each  other,  to  watch  out  for 
spelling  and  punctuation,  write  text  in  compliance  with  fields  and  red  string,  requirements  of  calligraphy. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Speech  Development  of  Primary  School  Children 


117 


Sixth,  it  is  the  ability  to  improve  the  written,  to  correct  mistakes,  to  supplement  the  text,  replace  the  words  with 
more  accurate,  to  eliminate  repetition,  to  remove  unnecessary  and  etc.  This  requirement  applies  only  to  written  work, 
in  oral  stories  corrections  make  the  listeners  -  teacher  and  pupils. 

Each  exercise  in  a  coherent  text  involves  the  use  of  all  these  complex  skills.  But  to  teach  to  all  the  skills  at  once  is 
equally  impossible.  Therefore,  every  lesson  where  students  make  up  one  or  another  form  of  text,  whether  exposition  or 
story,  retelling  or  essay,  a  letter  or  a  review  of  the  book  that  they  have  already  read,  should  clearly  define  the  task  of 
teaching. 

The  speech  development  is  the  formation  of  defined  speech  ability; 

•  The  ability  of  being  conversant  in  situation  of  talking,  i.e.  to  define  for  whom,  why,  what  about  I  will  speak  or 
write; 

•  The  ability  to  plan  the  expressions,  i.e.  realize  how  will  I  speak  or  write  (in  short  or  in  detail,  emotionally  or  in  a 
businesslike  manner),  in  what  consequence  I  will  expound  the  opinions; 

•  The  ability  to  realize  one's  conception,  i.e.  speak  or  write  strictly  on  the  theme,  providing  development  of 
opinions,  using  various  facilities  of  expressiveness; 

•  The  ability  to  implement  the  control  of  the  speech,  contribute  necessary  corrections  in  created  expression; 
In  order  to  effectiveness  of  work  on  the  development  of  speech,  it  must  go  through  a  several  stages: 

•  Accumulation  of  speech  experience  through  realized  analysis  of  ready  texts, 

•  Creation  of  oral  and  written  expressions  of  examples  for  conceptualization  and  fastening  of  theoretical  details, 

•  Independent  implementation  of  creative  works  [5]. 

In  that  way,  the  speech  development  of  primary  school  children  is  all  the  work,  conducted  by  the  teacher, 
especially  for  school  children  to  become  proficient  in  standards  of  languages,  as  well  as  the  ability  to  express  own  opinion 
in  oral  and  in  written  form,  by  using  necessary  facilities  of  language  in  accordance  with  aim,  maintenance  of  speech  and 
condition  of  conversation  [6]. 

Language  teachers  who  want  to  promote  the  development  of  learner  autonomy  must  do  three  things. 
First,  they  must  involve  their  learners  in  their  own  learning,  giving  them  ownership  of  learning  objectives  and  the  learning 
process.  Secondly,  they  must  get  their  learners  to  reflect  about  learning  and  about  the  target  language. 
Self-assessment  plays  a  central  role  here,  for  unless  we  can  make  reasonably  accurate  judgements  about  our  knowledge 
and  capacities  against  stated  criteria,  our  planning,  monitoring  and  evaluation  are  bound  to  be  haphazard  and  uncertain. 
Reflection  is  made  much  easier  when  we  write  things  down  -  learning  plans,  lists  of  vocabulary,  drafts  of  work  in  progress, 
reminders  of  things  we  need  to  look  into;  for  in  this  way  we  make  our  thoughts  and  our  learning  available  for  inspection 
and  analysis.  Thirdly,  teachers  must  engage  their  learners  in  appropriate  target  language  use,  which  includes  the  language 
of  reflection  and  self-assessment.  This  entails  that  they  model  and  scaffold  the  different  kinds  of  discourse  in  which  their 
learners  need  to  become  proficient  [8]. 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.iis 


118 


Salima  Saginovna  Seitenova  &  Akmaral  Satybaevna  Abil 


REFERENCES 

1 .  State  Education  Development  Program  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan  for  201 1-2020.  Astana. 

2.  M.  R.  Lvov.  Methodology  of  the  speech  development.  ML:  Education,  2000.  -  318. 

3.  T.  G.  Ramzayev.  Methodology  of  the  speech  development.  M.:  Education,  1993.  -  288. 

4.  S.  S.  Seytenova.  Learning  the  problems  of  language  culture  of  primary  school  children  II  International  student 
absentee  -  practical  conference.  The  scientific  community  of  XXI  Century  students. 

5.  E.  V.  Zaika.  The  complex  of  intellectual  games  for  the  development  of  children's  thinking  and  speech. 
Questions  of  Psychology.  -  1990.  6.-  S.  13-20. 

6.  S.  S.  Seytenova.  Formation  methods  of  speech  cultures  of  primary  school  children.  International  scientific  and 
practical  conference  of  2013  year.  Prague,  Czech  Republic. 

7.  Modern  Languages:   Learning,   Teaching,   Assesment.   A  Common  European  Framework  of  Reference. 
Strasbourg,  1997. 

8.  European  Language  Portfolio/  Proposals  for  Development.  Strasbourg,  1997. 

9.  Richards  J.  C,  Rodgers  N.  S.  Approaches  and  methods  in  language  teaching.  Cambridge  University  Press,  1995. 

10.  Jeremy  Harmer.  The  Practice  of  English  Language  Teaching  (New  Edition).  Longman  Group  UKLimited,  1991. 
p  176-178. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


