Thank you.
Can you hear me pretty well?
No?
If I talk a little bit louder?
If I yell a whole lot louder?
Turn it on.
Right?
It's the IT crowd thing.
Turn it off and turn it on.
Okay.
How's that?
No?
How about?
Am I getting better?
Score!
It's working for us.
So what I'd like to do is talk really fast for about 20 minutes and then have 10 minutes
of discussion.
The idea is to actually, if I can, be useful to you.
Yes, I helped put together a bunch of this thing, the early days of the web and put New
York Times and Wall Street Journal online and CMP, a bunch of publishers, did the first
advertising-supported thing as a contractor, as a company, then we sold that to America
Online, da-da-da-da-da.
But the thing that I'd like to try to emphasize in this conversation is how you can use tech
to help do something, I think, more significant than just sell ads.
I'm coming here with a hope, actually, from you guys, that we can end up working together
in interesting ways.
We're well adapted to the internet world.
You guys are really well adapted to your communities.
Is there a way of matching up or at least learning from each other?
So I'd like you guys to help deepen the conversation that's going on in this country, which has
been a traditional thing that your industry has done.
So who am I and why am I actually standing here?
I now run this organization called the Internet Archive.
The founder and digital librarian of it.
We're a nonprofit library, about 150 people, 12 million a year.
We digitize books, collect the worldwide web, da-da-da-da-da.
But the idea is to build the library of Alexandria version 2.
Can we make everything available to everybody?
So it's a nonprofit aggregator in many ways.
We see ourselves in the tradition of libraries.
I love seeing what people carve in stone, because I care about that.
So I look above libraries a lot, and above the Boston Public Library, it says free to
all.
They've got a business model that's working.
Actually, it was put in place by one of the most nasty capitalists ever.
It was the robber barons of that day.
They said, yeah, libraries should be free to all.
It's an interesting way of sort of working within a nasty environment, but still being
able to go and do the public good.
So if we're trying to go and put everything up, I thought I'd go through quickly what
it is we do.
And hopefully it sparks some sort of, hey, we could do that, or wow, that's really a
lot cheaper.
I didn't think you could do that, or maybe you want to work with us on some of these
things.
Then I'm going to end with a few sort of random ideas using tech with sort of a broad, dumb
idea of what it is your world is like.
So you'll see how naive I am, but how we might be able to work together and then have some
conversation.
Okay.
So if we wanted to put everything online, how big is it?
Sort of how you scope the problem, and then how do you go and put it online?
So I'm going to go over books, music, video, and sort of say, how are we doing towards
doing this?
And I think that actually it can be impactful for what it is you're doing.
So we sort of see the, you know, how do we build a library?
The largest library in the world is the Library of Congress by far.
It's about 28 million books.
And if you have a book online, it's about a megabyte a book.
28 million megabytes, it goes megagigatera.
It's 28 terabytes.
28 terabytes is seven hard drives that you can buy at Best Buy, and you'll spend less
than you pay in rent in a month.
So the idea of having all of the words in the Library of Congress fit in a small shopping
cart is now doable.
So the idea of having this kind of power and rethinking is a really different way about
it.
Then the question, what do you get for it?
Well, I think we're starting to get better adapted to having online books.
If you have scanned books, then you can kind of make them look like books.
And people are starting to tear them apart and do all sorts of other interesting things
with them.
You can at least go and just put the old medium in the new medium.
We've also gone and printed them again.
We found that lots of people didn't know how to, you know, didn't have computers, didn't
have da-da-da-da.
And they wanted the actual book.
So we used this as just a mechanism.
It was digitized and then print back out again in a bookmobile.
So this has a million books in this bookmobile because you can download, print, and bind
any book.
It costs about a buck a book to download, print, and bind a book.
Buck a book.
Buck a book.
You can give books away.
You don't have to get them back.
You don't have to catalog them.
It's just kind of an interesting new day.
We did a couple of them in India.
This is the first day in the Library of Alexandria in Egypt, an engineer working with a kid.
This is the kid's first book he's ever owned.
We also got it to work in rural Uganda.
We basically found that the technology worked, but the publishers didn't.
So the idea of trying to get new books to these kids was really hard, and that whole
industry is going through conniptions and doing almost anything it can to destroy itself.
This is the book publishing industry by not working with people terribly well.
But the technology is moving anyway, and lots of people are starting to step in to substitute
for those book publishers.
But whenever we digitize something, we put it on every platform we can, including the
bottom right corner, which is a talking book thing that talks to the blind and dyslexic.
So that we multiplied the number of books that that community had by a factor of 10
when we went and took our couple million books and put them out on the Internet.
The way we do this is we scan books and we built our own scanner to try to get it to
be cost-effective.
It cost us about 10 cents a page, all told, to go and digitize a book, about $30 a book,
about the cost it costs a library to buy a library-bound book and put it in a library.
Or if you take the cost of a library building a new building for a million books, it costs
about $30 million, then it's sort of on that order.
So why not?
Well, there are a bunch of organizations, libraries, that aren't very well adapted
toward this new world.
And it's sort of why we have an opportunity as the Internet Archive, as an independent
organization outside of government or universities, to make a change.
And I think you guys can think of this as well.
I'm hoping you sort of think a little more broadly about your general mission and just
sort of say, wow, okay, nobody's doing that.
What if we expand into it?
Just put a couple more photos of just going and doing photography of other types of things.
I'm quite pretty psyched about this project, just for, probably has very little to do with
alt-weeklies.
But I went around to try to find people that would go and put everything ever published
in their culture online.
You know, in the United States, it's like, nah, I won't sue you, right?
So I went to Greece, and they were like, nah, we're busy with, you know, being Greece.
In Iceland, it was like, ah, out of 300,000 people in Iceland, there's somebody in Iceland
that thinks it's their job to say no to anything like this.
So anyway, but the Balinese said yes, and so we went and digitized everything ever published
in Balinese.
It turns out that they published, they write things on palm leaves.
And the way that they read is they sing them.
So we actually ended up having to do a lot of transfer of video to be the transcriptions
of what it is these documents said, which was just completely mind-blowing and fun.
But the idea of going and finding a community that wants to be online and making that work
is something that we find, you know, go where people are willing.
Then there's the question of what do you do about copyrighted materials?
Well, we go and buy as many books as we can so we can lend them.
Mostly the publishers say no, right, the idea of selling books, my god, I wouldn't want
to do that.
You know, there's the libraries are really trying to break down the barriers to the publishers
to buy e-books so that they can lend them, and it's not been going very well.
We have gotten fringe publishers to do this, and you can borrow them, and then if somebody's
checked it out, then basically deny it, and then you can put it on your reading list to
be able to get it.
We've also taken digitized books, done format conversion.
So we have a physical book, we digitize it, and we lend it one person at a time.
Google Books got all torn up in this lawsuit around going and digitizing these materials
for their purposes, but we now work with a thousand libraries where they are digitizing
in copyright books under their own name and lending them.
Even though it's kind of causing some nervousness, it's working.
So the idea of having the Boston Public Library digitize some of their 20th century materials,
which are very interesting to some people, it's working.
So the idea here is just go and say, the copyright things are not absolute.
It depends on who you are and how you're doing it and if you're respectful, so you can start
to move forward with this.
I know you say, well, we all own our own content, but that may not be true soon as you start
to bring in other materials from your communities, which is what I'm going to try to encourage
you to do.
So the idea of books, of going digitizing all of these books is within our grasp technologically
and even rights-wise to go and bring some level of access to these materials out to
a very broad public.
Okay, books, music, how would you go about putting all music online?
Well, most people think of music as all the records and things like that.
Well, that's fairly litigated area and we haven't figured out how to thread that needle,
but there's a lot of other types of materials that don't find a way of being distributed
terribly well.
It's folk music, it's classical music, it's musical performances, and as was noted, The
Grateful Dead.
The Grateful Dead started a tradition of tape sharing, so people would record their concerts
and then they'd tape share.
This moved onto the internet and one of our interns went and said, hey, this tape sharing
thing is still on.
I was like, wow, I used to have my dead tapes back in the day.
He said, yeah, it's moved online and there are lots of bands that have copied them.
So we got some level of permission.
This is not three-level contracts and distribution, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's somebody.
It might be the drummer.
It might be the whatever.
He said, yeah, we're taper-friendly.
Go ahead, put it up on the archive.
We have the email and we put it up and we now have 5,000 bands.
We get about 40 new concerts a day from these 5,000 bands.
We get about three new bands every day signing up and posting things to the internet archive.
We now have over 100,000 concerts and we have now one million recordings of music and audio
on the internet for free download and reuse.
As long as basically no one's making any money off of selling their recordings.
This was a non-traditional role for a library to serve a community that didn't have a home.
They basically, as tape traders, wanted a place to go and put these cultural materials
and if you take a broad view of what it is a library does, it's cultural materials on
shelves for the public.
It made sense.
It wasn't what anybody was doing and it allowed us to become this dominant player in this
particular niche going and supporting this community.
Digitizing audio from records, there are two to three million of them as best we can tell
and cost $10 to $20 each, again, quite doable to go over the whole damn thing.
We have lots of different audio.
We do a lot of free hosting of news broadcasts like Democracy Now, those sorts of things
host on us because we're free.
Again, we're free.
We're available to you as well.
Moving images.
People think of moving images as movies, Hollywood movies.
There are only 150,000, 200,000 of those, as best we can tell, and about half of them
are Indian.
We only have about a thousand of them or a couple thousand of them that are up on the
Internet Archive DVD quality because of the copyright issues.
What we've gone and done is done mostly non-traditional films, so educational films, industrial films,
old propaganda films.
Remember in junior high school, when there's a substitute teacher, they'd sort of wheel
in the VCR, the projector, and show you one of these dumb films about how to be a typesetter
or how to be a physics or whatever it is?
Those.
We have those, and they're amazingly popular.
I don't know what people are doing with them, but people love them.
We've gotten really good at digitizing films, and we're now going into home movies up a
storm.
Home movies are extremely local and interesting to people.
We've now filled our place with 700 people, audiences.
We've sold out the Castro Theater.
We've sold out Herbst Theater.
These are large, large theaters, thousands of people coming to see home movies well edited,
and where they're the soundtrack, where they're going and talking back to the movie, I know
that area.
What's going on there?
It says Rick Prelinger has pioneered this, Lost Landscapes of Detroit, Lost Landscapes
of Oakland, Lost Landscapes of San Francisco.
It sells out.
Very community-oriented.
I'm saying this because it's a niche.
Nobody else is really going and taking this type of thing, serving communities in this
very local way using technology, and I think you guys could expand into this.
We also offer free hosting for people to upload things to.
There's all sorts of cool things that people have done.
We have a film digitization for going and taking films.
Very inexpensively, we use a lot of volunteers to go and do the film prep.
They like the exposure to getting hands-on ability to go and deal with film, which usually
have to go and spend a lot of money in a film school to get, and we do it as sort of a volunteer
project where they get to learn, and we get free labor, and they often get picked up for
jobs afterwards.
Also television, we archive a lot of television.
We started with 20 channels of television, 24 hours a day, DVD quality, starting in the
year 2000, and then we moved to about 100 channels from 35 countries.
It's an enormous collection, and we make it available online.
This was a September 11th collection to try to show what did the world see.
There was American stations that were saying that Palestinians were dancing in the streets.
Were they?
Well, let's look at Palestinian television.
Nothing kind of looks like that.
Turns out later that that channel was using clips from a 1995 celebration in Palestine
and subbing it in.
This is the sort of thing that causes people to go ape and go into war, and it lives completely
uncriticized, except for maybe The Daily Show by John Stewart.
We wanted to make everyone into a daily show research department, so we can search what
people said and be able to find clips of what it was and be able to borrow programs.
You'd say, gosh, can you do that?
The answer is yes, and we have.
If you go to archive.org slash TV, there is a site that you can go and search on things
and go and search on Romney and healthcare, whatever, and find based on the closed captions
and get 30-second clips.
If you want the full thing, then you have to borrow it, and that means we stamp it onto
a DVD and send it to you.
Now, it sounds clunky.
It is, but that's sort of the way, as best we can tell, to be legit and not get, well,
become a smoking crater.
The idea is to get access to television news and make it available, and it's available
to you as well, and you can go and blog to it.
You can go and link it into things.
It's a resource that can be recontextualized.
We have 400,000 programs in the last three years, all of C-SPAN, all of CNN, all of that,
and only two major markets.
We'd like to go and start recording a lot more in a lot more places, and you can do
this too.
A channel year is only 10 terabytes, so 10 terabytes is sort of small enough to imagine,
and that's 24 hours a day, a whole channel for a year, so you can start to think at doing
this kind of scale as well or working with us.
Archiving moving images, it's not that expensive to transfer videotape, and people love it.
It can really support communities and how we can act better.
We have about 500,000 moving images, most of which have been uploaded, but we also do
free hosting for Democracy Now of their video programs.
Why?
Because we're free.
We also host a ton of material for community access channels.
We're starting to weave into that infrastructure because they're all going broke.
A lot of their inns that were done during the cable era are kind of going away, so they've
got to drop their costs, and so the idea of free is awfully great.
We're a library, and we sometimes get movies and videos and things posted on our website
that make some people mad, but one of the nice things is we're a library.
We got one of those wonderful FBI, I don't know if you guys ever get these things.
They're national security letters.
They're a creature of the Patriot Act.
They're these things that have gag order where you get to go and answer their questions,
no questions asked, and you get to never tell anybody about it.
Oh, by the way, you don't have any way of saying no.
Actually, there is a way of saying no.
The only way you can say no is to sue the United States government, so we sued the United
States government, and we won.
There are a lot of people that will stand up behind you, ACLU and the EFF did in this
case as pro bono attorneys to go and get some of this stuff taken down.
There's just a lot of privacy problems that are going on out there, and we can and should
stand up to them.
Just a couple more.
Software, there's only 50,000 titles.
We're in the process of trying to get that online and trying to get it runnable.
We're finding that as best as we can tell, you can put things up, and if people get upset,
then you take them down.
The idea that you have to get clearance beforehand is just not that true, especially if you're
respectful and not some major exploiter.
Basically people are trying to figure out if they're being taken advantage of.
If you're going and putting their stuff up, are they being taken advantage of?
Are they better off or worse off because you did it?
We try to be on the side of better off.
But if people come up with the other side, then we take things down.
That generally has been working quite well for us.
We archive the World Wide Web.
We take a picture of every web page from every website every two months, and we have since
1996.
It's starting to get huge, so the idea of just hoovering up the web, we just go back
and forth and hoover it up, and we make a thing called the Wayback Machine.
The Wayback Machine, named for the Rocky and Bullankle Show, is basically you can type
in a URL and see old websites, and you can link to them and see what their evolution
was over time.
You can see sort of dorky things like the sock puppets from Bad Ideas from the Past,
but also important things such as press releases by those in power, such as when President
Bush was walking around on an aircraft carrier saying, gosh, the combat operations in Iraq
have ended, two days later they changed it.
They changed the press release of the United States government, and I think in a fairly
major way, with no notice, no nothing.
And so you have to be able to get access to the past, to be able to quote it, to be able
to not live in an Orwellian world where anybody can go and change the past.
We have archiving tools to help people go and do web archiving on their own so that
we work with now a couple hundred universities and libraries and now more and more groups
kind of like your guys to go and make sure that we have copies of things that are important
to them.
That's actually a subscription-based service, so we're actually making some amount of money
out of this.
And we get things such as really dive in on things like disasters that happen.
Rare books and letters, it's starting to get easier to photograph these things.
I bring this up because we've done some of this in local libraries, and people love it.
Basically, digital cameras can go and help you bring these things online in beautiful
ways.
Next up for us is personal digital archives and helping people that have splattered their
identities all sorts of on corporations that aren't going to be there very soon.
So you can basically keep some level of control of what it is, who you are, what was your
past.
Google video is gone, GeoCities is gone, Yahoo video is gone, and we have the only copies
of these things, mp3.com, Ayuma, and people trusted these things with their materials.
So the idea is to either archive them into the archive, into the web collection, or into
this personal digital archive.
Okay, how do you go and preserve this stuff?
Well, if there's one lesson from the Library of Alexandria, version one, that existed in
300 B.C., is it's...
When you think of Library of Alexandria, what do you think of?
Fire.
Fire.
Burn.
It's not here anymore.
It's gone.
So if they just made another copy, we would still have...
We'd have the other works of Aristotle, the other works of Euripides, which we don't.
So okay, let's design for it.
If that's what happens to libraries, let's go and preserve it some other way.
So we gave a copy of ourselves to the new Library of Alexandria, and that was it in
2002.
They re-architected the base floor.
It's completely beautiful.
We've now got a partial copy in Amsterdam as well.
So we have it in San Francisco, earthquake zone, the Middle East, and flood zone.
What could go wrong?
Anyway, so we really want another couple of copies, different places.
But this is what sort of a digital library looks like these days.
Sometimes they sit in containers and sit outside.
Oh, if you want to know how big the web is, you have to ask me.
It's eight feet by 20 feet.
It fits in a container.
Actually, it's the sort of running machines inside this container are the Wayback Machine,
or at least it was a couple of years ago.
Anyway, it's kind of fun.
What our current...
Pardon?
How big is it growing by?
Yeah, it's bigger now, but also the hard drives are small.
But now we're on these guys.
We're up to now 10 petabytes, which is a large number.
And you know, oh, and that's great.
But this means we can help you guys.
We can serve this sort of thing as well.
We can archive your collections, your photos, and be a backend infrastructure for free.
If you want to do it yourself, great.
Or if you want to do it later, great.
But this allows you to get going.
We're also getting better at physical archiving.
We found that after we scanned a lot of books, we gave the books back to the libraries.
They were going to throw out the books.
This seemed like a bad idea to us.
So we started getting better at physical archiving.
We've now got about 600,000 books that we have.
The access copy is in digital form.
And the preservation copy is in a known box, in a known place, in a known container, in
a known environment.
And the idea is to be able to build a different kind of system that's really thought through
differently by not having the constraints of the existing library systems.
Okay.
That's what we do.
So when I was trying to think of what might be useful or what I could actually say here,
I was trying to think, okay, what are the alt-weeklies from my point of view?
And again, this is sort of my naive point of view.
I think of you guys as spunky, young, idealistic, or at least that's all the people that I know
that have worked for the SF Guardian, the SF Weekly, the Phoenix in Boston.
It's a very idealistic bunch.
They really like doing the investigative journalism things.
It was the only really sort of speak back to power places that were happening within
these communities.
It was all about local, local, local.
And it was sort of for the little guy.
So this is my mental model.
And what I'd really like from you guys is for you guys to exploit technology, think
more broadly about maybe some of these points of view, try to have other people be helping
you that don't necessarily get paid by you or work for you.
How do you go and use technologies to still serve your goals but think really broadly
about how you might be able to redo it and support yourselves?
So it doesn't help if you have a great idea and you go out of business.
I'm not sure I'm going to be able to solve all your business problems, but there might
be some other ways you might want to think about raising money and doing and making money
in different ways like we have to try to adapt to the internet realities as they keep swapping
around.
Okay.
So here's just a couple ideas then hopefully to kick off some conversation.
Weekly debates as sport.
Okay.
So let's take a revolving venue that can be volunteered from different places and actually
have either talented high school kids or college kids or citizens to go and debate an issue
and do it weekly.
What's the new issue of that day?
Charge some level of admission.
We charge five bucks or five books.
So people can bring five books to the archive and they can come see these things.
And we actually get hundreds of people to come, not for debates yet, but I'd love to
see this happen.
Let's deepen the conversation.
Let's go and have somebody really study up on it and let's do it as sport.
Video it, put it online so that people can see it for free.
But maybe there's a little bit of admission.
Maybe it's sponsored.
Maybe there's some help to go and try to deepen the perspective about local.
I feel like I know more about what's going on in New York just because I read the New
York Times than I really know about what's going on in San Francisco.
This sucks.
And it doesn't work.
We need mechanisms and is there a way of doing it so that you can't, you don't have to go
and feel like you have to go and employ yet more people you can't afford to afford?
Is there something we can do with the internet in new and different ways?
So I think that there, I would love to see something like debate sports where people
would sort of get excited about maybe this high school versus this high school as well
as what they're actually debating as this sport.
Just an idea.
Local scanning projects.
So everybody's got stuff.
We've done some of these projects in local libraries.
We ask people to bring their menus or their favorite recipes.
And we put out some scanners.
The libraries have all the locations.
They've got paid staff, they're permanent, but they don't have the spunk, they don't
have the new ideas, but they're often up for people bringing the ideas.
So if you work with those guys, they might actually be a platform for you to do something
new and interesting.
And so the idea of doing menus or that kind of thing, there's been home movie day where
people bring in their home movies, this type of thing can be very inexpensive to run.
And I think that we can even get sponsorships for these sorts of things.
But that's more in your realm.
I'm better at finding basically rich people that want something to happen and serving
that general interest.
And I think if you thought more broadly about how to do fundraising, your for profit, but
fundraising, a little more traditionally, might actually help you find some niches.
And this type of projects could be brought to bear.
Last idea, video everything, everything.
So there's a video camera here because I brought it.
It wasn't here before.
And we're going to post this on the net.
Am I important?
Not very.
But video cameras are cheap.
Videoing is easy.
Put it all online.
Be the place that people go to see whatever it is that happened in that community and
you can do it.
Just video everything.
If you want to host it, host it on the Internet Archive.
It's free.
And then put it in an embed inside with some contextualization about what the hell happened
there.
Just get it online.
And I know Granicus goes and does a lot of things with city councils.
I keep hearing those with city council over and over and over again.
But there's a lot of other things than just city council meetings that are happening that
people want to know about.
And so go and record or get some kids to record the concerts.
Don't just go and talk about how that band was.
Record it.
And put that, if the band's okay with it, put it, say, on the Internet Archive or your
own hosts.
And people will love it.
The bands love it.
Some of them.
Some of them can't.
But a lot can.
There's a lot of things that you can do with this material if you think fairly broadly.
Also, if you deputize other people to be doing this stuff for you, they'd love to have the
brand name of, hey, my video got up.
And that is something that we can all do.
So please, deepen the conversation.
And I think technology can help you.
Maybe the Internet Archive as an organization in terms of our actual services can help you.
Maybe just as an idea.
But that's what we need to do.
Lastly, carved above the door of the Carnegie Library in Pittsburgh.
Carnegie, right, not known to be a nice guy, carved free to the people.
I think this is a good motto for all of us.
Thank you very much.
Do we have time for questions?
Please.
They're doing everything better than we are.
But we are nonprofit.
People come to us in a fairly different way.
So YouTube has really cornered the market on cat videos.
And we're okay with that.
But the long-form lectures and things like that, lots of them go up on us.
I think as some of these things like the Aaron Schwartz thing came down, we're starting to
see some of the fissures between the for-profits and the nonprofits and how they can play a
different role.
But we play a hosting role.
We digitize things and give things away.
Sometimes we push these guys, I hope, into doing the right thing.
But often we bulk up because of it.
A lot of these organizations donate things to us.
So we're part of the ecosystem.
We're not the answer.
We're part of the ecosystem.
We provide bulk hosting and bulk services to a lot of others that actually put their
own websites on front of it.
And they just use us and you never know that we were serving it.
And that gives people sometimes a level of control that they were after.
But they might find it in other, like YouTube actually, is a perfectly fine place to host
videos as well.
But sometimes they get pulled down and they don't tell you about it.
Just a quick follow-up.
Are they doing anything that would respond to the evil categories in New York City?
Their approach on the book project was terrible.
They're enclosing the public domain.
They were putting in place a monopoly called the Book's Rights Registry to go and own and
control all orphan works.
That sort of sucked.
So we were unhappy with how that proceeded and helped stop it.
So we're continuing on it.
I'd say if they're the Microsoft, we're the Linux in the book project.
But I use their services all the time.
Yep?
How do we avoid swapping our ears with crap?
That's what you're for, right?
But think more broadly than just the sort of, I have this many column inches.
I have this many gigabytes.
And give people sort of an idea that they can broaden out in particular areas.
Or just sort of be the front door.
If you can be the front door of something, whatever it is, you're going to win.
I think that's one of the reasons why the Internet Archive has three million users every
day.
We're about the 250th most popular website out there.
And it's because we got the way back machine.
We got the Grateful Dead.
We have certain things people sort of know, okay, these guys are it.
What is your thing that you're it?
So you can think a lot more broadly about the depth.
Highlight some things.
Or have a pile of crap and then pull out a few things and put it in your print paper.
And people will love it.
Video that soccer game that's going on.
Not just a picture of the team.
Video the whole damn thing.
Have it be up on your site so that's where people go to.
Yeah we do that.
Pardon?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Post it to all OCRs, easy.
Then you can download them, reuse them for whatever.
So yeah, please do your old archives too.
If you have things on old microfilm, we're really good at doing that very quickly.
But also just turning pages, about 10 cents a page, 25 cents a page is sort of what newspapers,
like the old style newspapers with lots of little words.
And it's all labor.
So if you've got labor, we'll provide the equipment for free, right?
So it's not like we're trying to make money out of it.
We just want the world to be a different place.
So, and basically what it comes down to is labor.
I'm interested in your benefactor model because if we bring it down to a local level, somebody
wants to see everything there.
Yeah sponsor the soccer games.
So tell us about how you get started and what type of people give you money?
We're actually not that great at that yet.
David Reinhardt's been helping coach us on this, he helped raise money for Greenpeace.
And we've been trying a few different things, I guess the, okay, how do we generally make
money?
We're $12 million a year.
We mostly sell services, 10 cents a page is about $5 million a year for us.
About $2 million is for doing those web services, including those sorts of we'll archive the
web for you.
And about $5 million comes from foundations and a bunch of that comes from me because
I won the internet lottery.
So but that usually sort of comes up and down.
I make sure the lights stay on.
And then what we're trying out now and it's we were successful at raising about $240,000
around Christmas time was a three to one match.
You know, I would have donated the money anyway so, but a match like people love that.
We raised $240,000 that we wouldn't have raised otherwise through an online campaign.
And they would think we can raise a million.
And I think the idea would be targeted.
What we've been seeing is make sure people understand what they're doing.
So the three to one match was to go and buy the next four racks of computers for us.
So people, you know, we could then communicate it back in that Kickstarter kind of way, hey,
we got one rack done.
Hey, come on, help us with the next, you know, we're almost there, then, you know, thank
you very much for helping.
And then we'll take down the pledge time.
And we're going to try out some of these other sorts of sign up for this and this and
this.
And we've seen people sign up for documentaries as long as they're passionate and interested
and you got sort of self-promoters.
I think you can do this even as a for-profit.
Back.
Thank you.
Microfilm, actually, we can all, if we're doing it, we can do it.
Microfilm, actually, if we're doing a bunch of it, we can get it much lower than that.
We've hoovered through enormous amounts of things like the old census data for genealogical
stuff.
Because your historical department is probably a treasure trove for a lot of people that
have a lot of money in your communities and they're not very good at marketing themselves.
So make a partnership.
I mean, the genealogists are one of the major users of those sorts of resources.
Can you help bridge people to it?
But anyway, if they have microfilm or whatever, we're very good at hoovering through it.
If you want to come over to our place, we're in the Richmond district, please come and
visit us.
We have a scanning center there.
I can show you around.
It's kind of fun.
We've tried doing the speech to text using the open source Sphinx program and it's kind
of crappy.
It works much better if you know what the names are.
Because most people want to search on names and they're not in the generic dictionary.
If you add the names that are going to be occurring in the audio, it actually works
quite well.
Definitely good enough for searching.
It's sort of stuttery in terms of whether you want to read it.
You could browse it.
It's not a really good transcription.
So that type of tools and technology are around.
Just seed it with the, you know, if they're just a set of characters that are in your
city council and you have the audio or whatever it is.
Just make sure the names are in there and the open source Sphinx program works quite
well.
It wasn't thinking down.
They wanted information about a patron.
They wanted to know something about one of our users.
And that is, that has a long tradition of going very wrong in libraries.
That was not about content that we posted.
So we get a lot of things posted that are, you know, like rips of TV shows and things
like that.
If they get really popular, so they become on our, you know, so we notice them then we'll
take them down.
Or if people go and tell us, you know, so we'll take those down.
You know, things like coming from the Middle East were really popular in the Arab world
because I guess they don't have free places to host over there.
And we'll leave up all the clerics talking and those sorts of things.
But when there's a really zoomed in pictures of people getting killed, we take those down.
So and it's just a judgment call of sort of, you know, what's sort of appropriate use
of our institution.
Yeah.
Do you ever, excuse me, do you ever get requests for a translation?
Yeah, there's, but mostly people go and do it some other way in other places.
So they sort of take it away from us and then translate it and do other things with it.
You know, there's an audiobook group called LibriVox that makes free audiobooks of public
domain materials.
And it's fantastically popular.
And we get 25,000 downloads of Sherlock Holmes just last week.
So it's, and that's sort of a form of translation, if you will.
But they did it by taking things away and then they add it back in and just use this
for free hosting.
So I'm hoping that out of this, there is at least some spark of ideas that you can think
more broadly, maybe some technology that would be useful to you.
Maybe the Internet Archive can be helpful.
Any other questions or are we off for lunch?
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
