OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  -j.^  \  t  f 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR 
RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

STATE  OF  TEXAS  ยง 

ยง 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  ยง 

This  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  is  entered  into  this  10th  day  of  May  2008,  by  and  between  TINA  G  FOSTER  ("Lessor"),  whose 
address  is  PO  Box  932,  Mansfield,  Texas  76063,  and  HOLLIS  R.  SULLIVAN,  INC.  ("Lessee"),  whose  address  is  P.O.  Box  9289, 
Wichita  Falls,  Texas  76308. 

1.  FOR  VALUABLE  CONSIDERATION,  the  receipt  and  sufficiency  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  subject  to 
the  terms  and  provisions  contained  herein,  Lessor  does  hereby  LEASE  exclusively  unto  Lessee  the  land  described  below  herein 
referred  to  as  the  "Leased  Premises"  for  the  purposes  of  exploring  and  drilling  for,  producing,  storing,  treating,  transporting  and 
marketing  oil  and  gas  and  all  substances  produced  therewith,  conferring  all  rights  and  easements  reasonably  necessary  or  useful 
for  Lessee's  operations  hereunder.  The  Leased  Premises  is  described  as  follows: 

Being  all  of  Lot  11,  Block  7,  Matlock  Estates,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  plat 
thereof  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  2991,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  being  further  described  in  that  certain 
Warranty  Deed  With  Vendor's  Lien  dated  March  30,  1998,  from  Mercedes  Homes,  Inc.,  to  Tina  G  Foster,  said  deed  recorded 
as  Volume  13298  Page  443  Official  Public  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

2.  This  is  a  Paid  Up  Lease.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a 
term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  the  date  shown  above,  hereafter  called  the  "Primary  Term"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is 
produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  operations  are  conducted  thereon  as  herein  provided. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  to  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipeline  to  which  Lessee 
may  connect  its  wells  or  in  the  absence  of  pipeline  connection,  into  Lessee's  storage  facilities  the  equal  to  twenty  two  percent  (22%) 
part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  the  Leased  Premises,  Lessor's  interest  to  bear  the  same  percent  of  the  costs  of 
treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable;  (b)  to  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  (1)  when  sold 
by  Lessee,  twenty  two  percent  (22%)  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by 
Lessee  off  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  well  of  the 
same  percent  of  such  gas  and  casinghead  gas.  The  royalties  provided  in  this  Lease  shall  be  determined  and  delivered  to  Lessor 
free  of  any  monetary  out  of  pocket  costs  of  development,  production,  compression,  processing,  treating,  gathering,  transportation, 
delivery,  marketing,  or  other  post-production  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  beyond  the  wellhead  to  the  point  of  delivery  to  the  gas 
gatherer,  transporter  or  purchaser,  whichever  occurs  first,  excepting  however  taxes  of  any  character  applicable  to  Lessor's  share  of 
production  that  are  paid  by  Lessee.  This  paragraph  is  not  surplusage,  but  shall  govern  over  all  other  royalty  provisions  of  this  Lease. 

4.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  Lease  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  will  cover  only  oil,  gas  and  associated 
hydrocarbons  and  shall  not  cover  any  other  substances  or  minerals. 

5.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other 
land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units 
containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres,  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one 
or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  320  surface 
acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the  following:  (1)  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid 
hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas 
wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the  time  established, 
or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  allowed  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular 
location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled  any  such  unit  may  be  established 
or  enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired 
unit  by  executing  an  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Each 
of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after 
production  has  been  established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized 
therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral, 
royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit,  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any 
part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land 
under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within 
the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit, 
after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract) 
covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be 
considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to 
be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom 
under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of 
royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring 
production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect 
of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become 
payable  under  this  lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not 
covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  lessee  to  release,  except  that  lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a 
unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any 
time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this 
lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  no  operations  are  being  conducted  thereon  for  unitized  minerals.  Subject 
to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall 
remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any 
such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but 
lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph,  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as 
herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or 
hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

6.  If  at  any  time  there  is  a  well  on  the  Leased  Premises  capable  of  producing  gas,  but  the  well  has  stopped  being 
produced  for  a  lack  of  a  market  or  other  good  cause  and  this  Lease  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  some  other  provision  hereof, 


then  it  shall  nevertheless  continue  in  force  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  or  the  date  this  Lease 
ceases  to  be  continued  in  force  by  some  other  provision  hereof,  whichever  is  the  later  date,  and  prior  to  the  expiration  of  such  ninety 
(90)  day  period  and  annually  thereafter.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  to  Lessor  an  advance  royalty  called  "Shut-In  Gas  Royalty"  in  an 
amount  equal  to  $5.00  per  acre  for  the  acreage  then  held  under  this  Lease  by  such  well  and  so  long  as  such  payments  or  tenders 
are  so  made  this  Lease  shall  continue  in  force  and  effect  and  it  shall  be  considered  that  gas  is  being  produced  from  the  Leased 
Premises  within  the  meaning  of  Paragraph  2  of  this  Lease. 

7.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  oil  or  gas  is  not  being  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or  shall  have  completed  a  well,  either  as  a 
producer  or  a  dry  hole,  within  120  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations 
are  continued  in  good  faith  and  with  reasonable  diligence  and  not  more  than  one-hundred  eighty  (180)  days  shall  elapse  between 
the  completion  or  abandonment  of  a  well  and  the  commencement  of  operations  to  drill  a  subsequent  well  and,  if  such  operations 
result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  and  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises. 

8.  If  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  production  thereof  should  cease 
for  any  reason  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  within  one-hundred  twenty  (120) 
days  from  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  to  commence  reworking  or  additional  drilling  operations  in  an  effort  to  resume 
production,  in  which  event  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  such  operations  are  conducted  in  good  faith  and  with 
reasonable  diligence  with  no  cessation  of  operations  of  more  than  120  consecutive  days  and  if  such  operations  result  in  the 
production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

9.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to 
their  heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns;  however,  no  change  in  the  ownership  of  the  land,  rentals  or  royalty  or 
the  division  thereof  however  accomplished  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee.  No  change  in 
the  ownership  or  the  division  of  the  land  or  royalties  shall  be  binding  upon  the  Lessee  for  any  purpose  until  thirty  (30)  days  after 
Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  the  instrument  or  instruments  or  recorded  copies  thereof  resulting  in  such  change. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever. 
Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  for  Lessor  either  before  or  after  maturity  any  mortgage, 
taxes  or  other  liens  or  interests  and  other  charges  against  the  Leased  Premises  not  subordinated  to  this  Lease  and  to  be 
subordinated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  the  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  amounts  due  or  which  may 
become  due  to  Lessor  under  this  Lease.  If  Lessor  owns  less  interest  in  the  mineral  estate  in  the  Leased  Premises  then  the  entire 
and  undivided  fee  simple  estate,  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  lease  bonus,  royalties  and  other  payments  herein  provided  shall  be 
paid  to  Lessor  only  in  the  proportion  which  Lessor's  interest,  if  any,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate.  In  the  event 
it  is  determined  that  the  bonus  amount  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  is  other  than  the  amount  due  Lessor  then,  Lessor  agrees  to  refund 
anything  in  excess  of  the  true  amount  due  to  Lessor. 

11.  All  Lessee's  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises  will  be  subject  to  and  will  be  conducted  in  compliance  with  all 
federal,  state,  county,  city  and  other  laws,  rules,  ordinances,  regulations  and  requirements.  Lessee  will  assume  all  costs  of  insuring 
that  its  operations  comply  with  all  applicable  laws.  This  Lease  shall  not  be  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,  nor  Lessee  held  liable  for 
damages  for  failure  to  comply  with  the  terms  herein  set  forth,  if  compliance  is  prevented  by  or  such  failure  is  a  result  of  any  law, 
order,  rule  or  regulation  of  applicable  federal,  state,  county  or  other  governmental  authority  or  deed  restriction  and  if  not  otherwise 
being  maintained  herein,  the  Primary  Term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or 
more  days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause  and  this  Lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  and/or  production 
as  provided  herein  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 2.  Whether  or  not  this  Lease  is  executed  by  all  parties  named  herein  as  Lessor,  this  Lease  shall  be  binding  upon  and 
inure  to  the  benefit  of  all  parties  who  execute  it  (whether  or  not  named  herein)  and  all  parties  from  whom  each  Lessor  has  authority 
to  execute  this  Lease.  This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land 
particularly  described  above  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or 

surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  leased  premises. 

13.  Lessee  indemnifies  and  holds  Lessor  harmless  from  and  against  any  claims,  costs  and  liabilities  such  Lessor  may 
suffer  whether  for  injury  or  death  to  any  person,  injury  or  damage  to  any  property,  failure  to  adhere  to  or  comply  with  any  applicable 
laws,  rules  or  regulations  or  demand  for  monetary  damages  (collectively  the  "Claims")  to  the  extent  that  such  Claims  relate  to  or 
arises  from  Lessee's  operations  under  this  Lease  or  Lessee's  breach  of  its  obligations  under  this  Lease. 

14.  No  waiver  by  a  party  hereto  of  any  breach  of  a  term,  condition  or  covenant  of  this  Lease  will  be  deemed  to  be  a 
waiver  of  any  other  breach  of  the  same  or  any  other  term,  condition  or  covenant  contained  herein. 

1 5.  In  the  event  any  provision  of  this  Lease  is  for  any  reason  held  to  be  invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable  in  any  respect, 
such  invalidity  shall  not  affect  any  other  provision  thereof  and  this  Lease  shall  be  construed  as  if  such  invalid,  illegal  or 
unenforceable  provision  had  never  been  contained  herein. 

1 6.  In  the  event  of  any  legal  action  or  proceeding  between  the  parties  seeking  to  enforce  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  the 
prevailing  party  in  such  action  shall  be  entitled  to  recover,  in  addition  to  all  remedies  available  to  it  at  law,  all  of  its  costs  and 
expenses  in  connection  therewith,  including  attorney's  fees  and  costs. 

17.  This  Lease  contains  the  entire  agreement  of  the  parties  regarding  the  subject  matter  hereof  and  supercedes  any 
and  all  prior  agreements,  arrangements  or  understandings  between  the  parties  regarding  such  subject  matter.  This  Lease  cannot 
be  changed  orally  and  may  be  amended  only  by  an  instrument  in  writing  executed  by  the  parties. 

18.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  executed  and  acknowledged  counterparts  or  ratifications  hereof  each 
of  which  shall  be  deemed  to  be  acceptable  and  all  of  which  together  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  document, 

19.  Any  notice  required  or  permitted  to  be  given  hereunder  must  be  in  writing  and  must  be  sent  to  the  parties  via 
personal  delivery  or  certified  mail  only  at  their  addresses  set  forth  in  this  Lease  or  at  another  address  upon  prior  written  notice  of  the 
same. 

20.  NO  SURFACE  OPERATIONS.  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  leased  premises,  erect,  set  up  or  place  any 
structure  or  building  on  the  leased  premises,  or  conduct  any  operations  upon  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  without  the  written 
consent  of  Lessor.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  and/or  by  directional  or  horizontal 
drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands  in  such  manner  that  the  path  of  the  wellbore  is  under  and  through  the 
leased  premises  and  the  bottom-hole  or  terminus  is  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 


21.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Hollis  R.  Sullivan,  Inc.,  any 
other  third  party  and  its  agent,  TimeSlice  Technology,  Inc.,  permission,  to  conduct  seismic  operations  or  utilize  existing  data 
collected  for  exclusive  use  or  for  an  undershoot  by  other  third  parties  to  image  the  sub-surface  of  the  leased  premises,  including  the 
right  to  lay  source  and  receiver  lines  on  the  leased  premises. 

22.  Lessor  and  Lessee  hereby  agree  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  option,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  extend  the  primary 
term  of  the  Lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  by  paying  to  Lessor  the  sum  of  $200.00  for  all  of  Lessor's  mineral  interest 
in  the  tract  of  land  covered  by  this  Lease,  such  payment  to  be  post  marked  by  U.S.  Mail  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  the  primary 
term  of  this  Lease  to  Lessor's  last  known  mailing  address.  Any  sale  or  conveyance  of  the  minerals  covered  by  this  lease  shall  be 
made  expressly  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  herein. 


LESSOR: 

TINA  G  FOSTER 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this 
By  Tina  G  Foster. 


2008, 


Notary  Public  -  State  of  Texas 


IEONIE  T.  WALSTON 
Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
December  21, 2011 


After  recording  return  to; 

Hollis  R,  Sullivan,  Inc. 

P.O.  Box  9289 

Wichita  Falls,  Texas  76308 


HOLDS  R  SULLIVAN  INC 

PO  BOX  9289 


WICHITA  FALLS 


TX  76308 


Submitter:  HOLLIS  R  SULLIVAN  INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 


WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:       06/06/2008  06:57  AM 
Instrument  #:  D208213505 


I  lliii  Hill  lilll  liBII  Hill  tllli  Hill  lill  III)  1111 


D208213505 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


4  PGS 


Printed  by:  CN 


