NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS 
INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR 
SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§  KNOW  BY  ALL  MEN  THESE  PRESENTS: 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

This  NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  ("Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  P?f>\  day 
of       /T)£V  ,       2008,       (the      "Effective      Date")       by      and  between 

  ("Lessor,"    whether    one    or    more),    whose    address  is 

~b%6Q  F^;w»^   -p.  Lu^j  /nesg,,i4e  ,TY   , 

and  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC  ("Lessee,  whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  2100 
Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870,  LB-9,  Dallas,  TX  75201.  Lessor  and  Lessee  are  sometimes 
collectively  referred  to  in  this  Lease  as  the  "Parties." 

1-  Property.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  by  Lessee,  the 
royalties  herein  provided,  and  the  covenants,  agreements  and  obligations  of  Lessee 
herein  contained,  and  subject  to  the  conditions  and  limitations  hereinafter  set  forth, 
hereby  leases  and  lets,  exclusively  unto  Lessee,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling 
for,  producing,  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  the  subsurface  "Mineral  Estate,"  as 
defined  below,  located  300  feet  under  the  surface  of  the  land  in  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  described  as  follows,  to  wit: 

See  Exhibit  "A" 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or 
contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above,  whether  the  same  be  in  said 
survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the 
boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 

(and  referred  to  herein  as  the  "Property,"  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's 
request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more 
complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  Property.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified 
above  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term,  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a 
term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "Primary  Term"),  and  for  as 
long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in 
paying  quantities  from  the  Mineral  Estate  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this 
Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 


3.  Option  Clause.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  Lessee  is  hereby 
granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be  exercised  prior  to  the  date  which  this  Lease  would 
expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  provisions,  of  extending  this  Lease  for  an 
additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all,  but  not  a  portion,  of  the  Property.  The 
only  action  required  by  Lessee  to  exercise  this  option  is  payment  made  to  Lessor 
prior  to  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  of  an  additional  consideration  of 
the  sum  equal  to  the  original  cash  bonus  paid  to  Lessor  as  a  bonus  for  signing  the 
Lease,  which  payment  shall  cover  the  entire  two  (2)  year  extended  Primary  Term. 
Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all 
purposes  as  though  this  Lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years. 


Page  1  of  1 1 


4.  Minerals  Covered.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  "Mineral  Estate"  means  oil,  gas 
and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced 
through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and 
gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon 
dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly 
excluded  from  the  Mineral  Estate  and  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other 
like  minerals.  Lessee  shall  have  no  rights  to  water  in,  on,  or  under  lands  of  Lessor. 


5.  Royalties.  Royalties  on  Oil,  Gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved 
hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  Oil  and  other  liquid 
hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalties  shall  be  twenty 
five  percent  (25%)  of  the  market  value  of  such  production,  computed  at  the  point  and 
on  the  date  of  sale,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase 
such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if 
there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in 
which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 
and  (b)  for  Gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby, 
the  royalties  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee 
from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  and  on  the  date  of  sale,  provided  that 
Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing 
wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if 
there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in 
which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts 
entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder. 

Royalties  on  Oil,  Gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are 
processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a 
direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  highest  of  the  proceeds 
received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed  on  the  date  of  production. 
Similarly,  on  Oil,  Gas  and  other  substance  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are 
sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based  upon  the  higher 
of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  on  the  date  of  production  and  the 
proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the 
contrary  herein,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalties  bear  any  part  of  the  direct 
or  indirect  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production  costs,  including,  but  not 
limited  to,  costs  of  lifting,  gathering  dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery, 
transportation,  manufacture,  processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction, 
operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment  for  processing  or 
treating  Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  produced  from  the  Property  or  lands  pooled 
therewith.  However,  any  such  costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  of 
the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted 
from  Lessor's  share  of  production  as  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost 
of  such  enhancements  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  less  than  or  more  than 
Lessee  in  sales  to  non-affiliates.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the  provisions  of 
this  section  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as 
"surplusage"  under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank, 
939  S.W.2d  118  (Tex.  1997). 

As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other 
entity  that  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of 
Lessee,  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding 
voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in 
which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting 
interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture  partnership  or 
other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalties  on  production 
from  a  particular  well  not  later  than  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  end  of 
the  month  following  first  delivery  of  Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  produced  from  the 
well  into  the  pipeline.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to 

Page  2  of  1 1 


Lessor  by  the  last  day  of  each  month  its  royalties  on  production  for  which  Lessee 
received  payment  in  the  preceding  month,  but  in  no  event  shall  royalties  be  paid 
more  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  last  day  of  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid 
when  due,  Lessor's  royalties  shall  bear  interest  at  the  maximum  lawful  rate  from  due 
date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay.  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of 
royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive 
interest  due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor. 

The  receipt  by  Lessee,  an  affiliate,  or  Lessee's  operator,  from  a  purchaser  or  a 
pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result 
in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds, 
but  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  will  at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the 
benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business 
failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  the  Property,  or  pipeline  company 
transporting  production  from  the  Property,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for  payment  to 
Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor,  together  with  interest  if 
not  timely  paid.  Lessor  retains  the  right  to  terminate  the  Lease  for  failure  to  pay 
royalties,  after  a  period  of  written  notice  and  opportunity  to  cure  which  shall  not 
exceed  sixty  (60)  days. 

Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  produced  from  the  Property  or  pooled  unit  that  the 
Property  is  included  therewith  shall  not  be  commingled  with  Oil,  Gas,  or  other 
substances  produced  from  any  other  lands  prior  to  the  point  where  the  Oil,  Gas,  or 
other  substances  produced  from  this  Lease  passes  through  the  meter  which  will 
measure  the  Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  for  calculating  the  payment  made  by  the 
purchaser  of  Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  production, 

6.  Shut-in  Royalties,  If  at  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or 
more  wells  on  the  Property  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  Oil, 
Gas,  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells 
are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or 
wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the 
purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced  shall 
be  deemed  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90) 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being 
sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalties  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00) 
per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and 
thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the 
well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee; 
provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or 
if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  Property  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day 
period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding 
anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the 
expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease 
in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  more  than  one  (1)  consecutive  year  and 
two  (2)  years  in  the  aggregate. 


7.  Payments.  All  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at 
the  address  in  Section  1,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository 
institution  in  lawful  U.  S.  currency  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice  of  from  time 
to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  by  check  or  electronic  transfer. 

8.  Continuous  Drilling  Obligations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  (a  "Dry  Hole")  on  the  Property  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently 
ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  of  Section  9  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event 
this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in 
force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an 


Page  3  of  1 1 


additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  Property  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  completion  of 
operations  on  such  Dry  Hole,  or  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  such 
cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to 
obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as 
any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than 
one  hundred  twenty  (120)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  results  in  the 
production  of  Oil,  Gas,  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Property  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 
After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  Property  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a) 
to  obtain  production  from  the  Property  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  Property  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the 
Property  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands 
not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 


9-  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part 
of  the  Property  or  interests  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests  owned  or  leased 
by  Lessee  and  its  affiliates,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease, 
either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it 
necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  Property, 
whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or 
interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  Property  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall 
not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%), 
and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  three  hundred  and 
twenty  (320)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%).  For  the 
purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings 
prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or  if  no 
definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  weir  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less 
than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel,  and  "gas  weir  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator 
facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment,  and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well 
in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the 
vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  one 
hundred  twenty  (120)  days  of  first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written 
declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling  which  may  be 
retroactive  to  first  production.  Lessee  shall  send  Lessor  a  copy  of  any  such 
declaration  within  30  days  of  filing.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a 
well,  all  of  Lessor's  acreage  shall  be  included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  Property  shall  be  treated  as  if  it 
were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  Property,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalties  are  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the 
total  unit  production  which  the  mineral  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in 
the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  mineral  acres  included  in  the  unit. 


Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder, 
and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit 
formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density 
pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or 
to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental 
authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  Lessee  shall 
send  Lessor  a  copy  of  any  such  declaration  within  60  days  of  filing.  If  the  Property  is 
included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of 
unit  production  on  which  royalties  are   payable   hereunder  shall  thereafter  be 

Page  4  of  1 1 


adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit, 
or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of 
record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination. 
Lessee  shall  send  Lessor  a  copy  of  any  such  declaration  within  60  days  of  filing. 
Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 


10.  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned 
or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and 
the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  provided, 
however,  if  Lessee  is  to  assign  any  part  of  this  Lease  to  any  party  other  than 
Chesapeake  Energy,  Inc.  or  an  affiliated  entity,  Lessee  shall  give  written  notice  and  a 
copy  of  the  assignment  to  Lessor  within  sixty  (60)  days  of  said  assignment.  No 
change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging 
the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on 
Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified 
or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of 
ownership  to  the  reasonable  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the 
notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  If 
Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  no  assignment  by  Lessee 
will  relieve  Lessee  of  any  liability,  before  or  after  the  assignment,  and  Assignee  is 
jointly  and  severally  liable  with  Lessee  for  all  Lease  obligations. 


1 1 .  Release  and  Vertical  Pugh  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to 
time,  deliver  to  Lessor  a  file  of  record  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or 
undivided  interest  in  all  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones 
thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with 
respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in 
less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in 
royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest 
retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its 
successors  or  assigns  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recorded  release  within  sixty  (60)  days 
as  to  such  portion  or  portions  of  this  Lease  which  have  terminated  under  the  terms 
of  this  Lease.  Subject  to  the  terms  of  paragraph  2,  upon  the  expiration  of  the 
Primary  Term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the 
Primary  Term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs 
last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below 
either  (1)  the  deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  Property  or  on  lands 
pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest 
formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  Property  or  on 
lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is  the  deepest;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  operations  on  the  Property  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall 
remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90) 
days  elapse  between  operations. 


12.  No  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee 
shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon, 
or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical/seismic 
operations)  on  the  surface  of  the  Property.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  Property  by 
pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from 
a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the 
Lease,  Lessee  has  no  right  to  drill  horizontally,  vertically,  or  at  an  angle  under  the 
Property  at  any  depth  that  is  less  than  three  hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface. 
Lessee  has  no  right  to  transmit  or  transport  gas  under  the  surface  of  the  Property  at 
any  depth  that  is  less  than  three  hundred  (300)  feet  below  the  surface  of  the 
Property.  The  terms  and  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall  be  controlling  over 
any  contrary  provisions  located  elsewhere  in  this  Lease, 


13.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling, 
completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking 


Page  5  of  1 1 


into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas 
industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the 
vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in 
or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered 
equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound 
therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

14.  Traffic.  Lessee  understands  the  residential  streets  within  the  area  surrounding 
the  leased  premises  boundaries  are  neither  designed  nor  built  to  carry  commercial 
traffic.  Lessee  agrees  to  instruct  its  employees  and  contractors  to  avoid  using  said 
streets,  except  for  contractors  doing  business  with  Lessors.  None  of  Lessee's 
employees  or  contractors  shall  be  permitted  to  use  the  streets  for  parking  or  access 
to  any  drill  site. 


15.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this 
Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules, 
regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including 
environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and 
production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  Oil,  Gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby. 
To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the 
terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  The  breach  of  this  paragraph  will  be 
considered  a  material  breach  of  the  Lease.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or 
other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders, 
or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water, 
electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions, 
war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to 
take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within 
Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this 
Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted.  Lessee  shall  take  all  reasonable  actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  of 
force  majeure  as  soon  as  reasonably  possible.  In  no  event  shall  this  Lease  be 
perpetuated  by  an  event  of  force  majeure  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  (1) 
consecutive  year  or  three  (3)  years  of  cumulative  time.  No  obligation  of  Lessee  to 
pay  money  that  has  accrued  and  was  due  before  the  force  majeure  event  occurred 
under  this  lease  will  be  excused  or  delayed  by  reason  of  such  force  majeure  event. 


16.  Environmental  Compliance.  Lessee  shall  use  the  highest  degree  of  care  and  all 
reasonable  safeguards  to  prevent  contamination  or  pollution  of  any  environmental 
medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater,  sediments,  and  surface  or 
subsurface  strata,  ambient  air  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under, 
the  Property  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  by  any  waste,  pollutant,  or  contaminant. 
Lessee  shall  not  bring  or  permit  to  remain  on  the  Property  or  . lands  pooled  therewith 
any  asbestos  containing  materials,  explosives,  toxic  materials,  or  substances 
regulated  as  hazardous  wastes,  hazardous  materials,  hazardous  substances  (as  the 
term  "Hazardous  Substance"  is  defined  in  the  Comprehensive  Environmental 
Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  (CERCLA),  42  U.S.  C.  Sections  9601,  et 
seq.)  or  toxic  substances  under  any  federal,  state  or  local  law  or  regulation 
("Hazardous  Materials"),  except  ordinary  products  commonly  used  in  connection  with 
oil  and  gas  exploration  and  development  operations  and  lawfully  stored  in  the  proper 
manner  and  quantities.  LESSEE'S  VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION 
SHALL  CONSTITUTE  A  MATERIAL  BREACH  AND  DEFAULT  HEREUNDER  AND 
LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY,  HOLD  HARMLESS  AND  DEFEND  LESSOR,  ITS 
AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  TENANTS,  GUESTS,  INVITEES  AND  THEIR  RESPECTIVE 
SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  CLAIMS,  DAMAGES, 
JUDGMENTS,  PENALTIES,  LIABILITIES,  AND  COSTS  (INCLUDING  REASONABLE 
ATTORNEYS'  FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS)  CAUSED  BY  OR  ARISING  OUT  OF  (1)  A 
VIOLATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  OR  (2)  THE  PRESENCE,  RELEASE 
OR  DISPOSAL  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  THE 
PROPERTY  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  THE  TERM  OF  THIS  LEASE. 


Page  6  of  11 


LESSEE  SHALL  CLEAN  UP,  REMOVE,  REMEDY,  AND  REPAIR  ANY  SOIL  OR 
GROUND  WATER  CONTAMINATION  AND  DAMAGE  CAUSED  BY  THE  PRESENCE  OR 
RELEASE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  IN,  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  THE 
PROPERTY  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  THE  TERM  OF  THIS  LEASE  IN 
CONFORMANCE  WITH  THE  REQUIREMENTS  OF  APPLICABLE  LAW.  THIS 
INDEMNIFICATION  AND  ASSUMPTION  SHALL  APPLY,  BUT  IS  NOT  LIMITED  TO, 
LIABILITY  FOR  RESPONSE  ACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN  PURSUANT  TO  CERCLA  OR  ANY 
OTHER  ENVIRONMENTAL  LAW  OR  REGULATION.  LESSEE  SHALL  IMMEDIATELY 
GIVE  LESSOR  WRITTEN  NOTICE  OF  ANY  BREACH  OR  SUSPECTED  BREACH  OF 
THIS  PARAGRAPH,  UPON  LEARNING  OF  THE  PRESENCE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS,  OR  UPON  RECEIVING  A  NOTICE  PERTAINING  TO  HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS  WHICH  MAY  AFFECT  THE  PROPERTY  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH. 
THE  OBLIGATIONS  OF  LESSEE  HEREUNDER  SHALL  SURVIVE  THE  EXPIRATION  OR 
EARLIER  TERMINATION,  FOR  ANY  REASON,  OF  THIS  LEASE. 


17.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR, 
AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL 
EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY 
NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT 
FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  THE 
PROPERTY  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF 
PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL 
REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE" 
INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND 
ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS 
INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS. 

18.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to 
the  party  being  notified  at  the  address  identified  in  Section  1,  unless  notice  of 
another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of 
delivery  is  expressly  stated. 


19.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title 
to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  Property  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein. 
All  warranties  by  Lessor  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but 
not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are 
excluded.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given 
full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy 
itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Property.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures..  However, 
If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the 
royalties  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately 


20.  Curing  Defaults.  Should  Lessee  at  any  time  fail  to  comply  with  its  obligations 
hereunder  regarding  construction,  maintenance,  or  repair,  Lessor  shall  have  the 
right,  after  giving  45  days  prior  written  notice  to  Lessee,  to  do  or  have  done  whatever 
is  necessary  to  fulfill  the  obligations  to  its  satisfaction,  and  Lessee  shall  be  liable  to 
Lessor  for  the  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  thus  incurred  by  Lessor,  to  be  paid 
within  45  days  after  Lessor  shall  have  furnished  Lessee  an  itemized  written 
statement  of  the  expenses. 


21.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie 
in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where  all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable.  At 
any  time  that  any  obligation  of  the  Lessee  to  make  a  payment  shall  not  be  complied 
with  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  it  is  agreed  and  understood  that 
Lessee  will  pay  to  Lessor  interest  thereon  at  the  highest  lawful  rate  allowed  to  be 
charged  to  Lessee  by  Lessor  under  the  then  existing  statutes  of  the  State  of  Texas. 


Page  7  of  1 1 


In  the  event  that  Lessor  or  Lessee  is  required  to  employ  legal  counsel  for  the 
enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  Lease  and  receives  a  final  unappealable 
judgment,  the  prevailing  party  will  be  entitled  to  recover  from  Lessee  reasonable 
attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  by  Lessor.  It  is  agreed  and  understood  that 
time  is  of  the  essence  in  the  performing  of  each  responsibility  under  the  terms  of  this 
Lease. 


22.  Records.  Lessee  shall  keep  complete  and  accurate  records  of  all  its  operations 
relating  to  or  affecting  the  Property  and  lands  with  which  the  Property  is  pooled,  and 
the  results  thereof,  including  but  not  limited  to:  all  geophysical,  geological, 
geochemical  and  paleontological  data  and  interpretations  or  analyses  thereof;  all  land 
surveys,  title  opinions  and  title  curative  material;  all  drilling,  coring,  logging,  testing 
and  completion  records;  all  production  records  showing  the  total  gross  production, 
the  quantities  saved,  sold  and  used,  the  disposition  thereof,  and  the  sales  prices  or 
values  thereof;  all  production  sales  contracts;  and  such  other  records  and  as  may  be 
proper  for  the  settlement  of  accounts  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  or  to  determine  the 
respective  rights  and  obligations  of  said  parties  hereunder.,  including  records  of  all 
Hazardous  Substance  investigations,  site  reports,  clean-up  records,  etc.  During  the 
Primaiy  Term  of  this  Lease  and  for  as  long  as  Oil  and  Gas  is  produced  therefrom, 
upon  written  request  of  Lessor,  and  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  thereafter,  Lessee 
shall  make  all  of  such  records  and  data  available  to  Lessor  or  Lessor's  designee  for 
examination  and  copying  in  Lessee's  offices  in  Texas  during  normal  hours  of 
operations,  as  well  as  all  other  records,  reports,  notes,  charts,  graphs,  maps, 
contracts,  documents,  papers,  and  other  material  in  the  possession  of  or  under  the 
control  of  the  Lessee  and  pertaining  to  the  Property. 


23.  Division  Orders.  It  is  agreed  that  neither  the  Lease  nor  any  of  its  terms  or 
provisions  shall  be  altered,  amended,  extended,  or  ratified  by  any  division  order  or 
transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  Lessor's  successors,  agents,  or  assigns.  If  Lessee 
shall  require  the  execution  of  a  division  order  for  payment  of  royalties  payable  under 
the  Lease,  then  the  only  form  of  division  order  permitted  for  Lessee's  use  shall  be 
such  form  promulgated  by  the  State  of  Texas  and  set  forth  in  Section  91.402(d)  of 
the  Texas  Natural  Resources  Code,  as  amended  from  time  to  time.  Any  amendment, 
alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  lease,  or  of  any  term  or  provision  of  this 
lease,  shall  be  made  only  by  an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and 
effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the  proposed  change 
or  modification  hereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against  whom  any  such 
amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced.  Any 
purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so  drafted  shall  be  of 
no  force  or  effect. 


24.  Subordination  Agreement  Fees.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to 
the  contrary,  neither  Lessee  nor  Lessee's  assigns  shall  ever  require  a  subordination, 
partial  release  of  lien,  release  of  lien,  consent  or  other  documentation  from  any 
lender  of  Lessor  that  has  a  lien  on  said  land  as  a  condition  to  Lessor  receiving  any 
subsequent  royalty  payment,  unless  the  wellbore  penetrates  the  leased  premises,  in 
which  case  Lessee  shall  notify  Lessor.  However,  Lessor  will  cooperate  with  any 
reasonable  effort  of  Lessee  to  obtain  same  from  Lessor's  lender  on  behalf  of  Lessor. 


25.  Estoppel  Requests.  The  parties  shall,  from  time-to-time,  within  20  days  after 
written  request  by  the  other  party,  deliver  an  estoppel  certificate  stating  that  the 
Lease  is  in  full  effect  (or  has  been  terminated),  the  unexpired  term  of  the  Lease,  the 
status  of  any  alleged  defaults  by  the  other  party,  the  land(s)  with  which  the  Property 
is  pooled,  the  status  of  drilling  and/or  production,  and  such  other  factual  matters 
pertaining  to  the  Lease  as  may  reasonably  be  requested  by  the  parties. 


Page  8  of  1 1 


26.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be 
construed,  interpreted  and  enforced  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas 
without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions  herein  be 
determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this 
shall  not  affect  the  enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein.  The  section  titles 
appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves 
determine  the  construction  of  this  Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more 
counterparts  and  by  facsimile  execution,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original, 
but  all  of  which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural 
terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine  feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be 
read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

"The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  shall  be  in  addition  to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all 
rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to  payment  of  royalty  under  Texas  law,  including,  without 
limitation,  V.T.C.A.  Natural  Resources  Code  §§  91.401  through  91.405." 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first 
written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns. 

Executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


Lessor: 


[Signature] 


[Individual  Name/Title] 


[Signature] 


* 


[Individual  Name/Title] 


By: 


Page  9  of  1 1 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 


by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


Page  1 0  of  1 1 


EXHIBIT  A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  NO  SURFACE  USE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  dated 
__,   2008,   between   Dale   Property   Services,   LLC,   as   Lessee,  and 

75un*Z~     /Y)^sT\  L*.yr\  i/v^  1  I  ,       as  Lessor; 

WITNESSETH: 


0.239  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Blk  15   Lot   7,  Arlington  Gardens,  an  addition  to  the  City  of 
Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  3^$>^j\  ,  Page 
Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Page  11  of  11 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 

DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration: 
Instrument  < 


06/10/2008  04:09  PM 
D208219001 

E  12  PGS 


$56.00 


i  ii  ii  ill  i ii  in  in  i  iriiii 

D208219001 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


