NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid-Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID-UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 


THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this    17th     day  of     .May        2008.  by  and  between  Robert  L. iCTrinMn  amrt  Arfwa  N.  1 

whose  address  is      1127  ftlaufaronk  St.  Reabre.uk.  TX  76126   -  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more), 

and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO..  LLC,  whose  address  is  201  Main  Street.  Suite  1455.  Fort  Worth.  Texas  76102,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  hy  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  ca.sh  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land,  hereinafter 
called  leased  premises; 

Lot  29R1,  Block  1 ,  Timber  Creek  Addition  to  the  City  of  Benbrook,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  3304,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County, 
Texas. 

in  the  County  of    Tarrant    _  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  Q.1&2   gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 

prescriplion  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for.  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in 
association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In 
addition  to  the  above- described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to 
the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be 
deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  3  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  nil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions 
hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's 
separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation 
facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then 
prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  foT  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity:  (b)  for  gas  (including  easinghead  gas)  and  all  other 
substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25ft  or  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or 
other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the 
nearest  field  in  which  there  is  Such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its 
purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or 
gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  arc  cither  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not 
being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such 
well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to 
Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while 
the  well  or  wclis  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee 
from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or 
production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  hut  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  i-reitit  in  at  I  essor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  he  Lessor's  depository 
agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to 
Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  ai  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If 
the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder.  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper 
recordable  instrument  naming  Another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Hxcept  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6 
or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  Tor 
reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  foT  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion 
of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  I  r  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwi.se  being  maintained  in 
force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any 
one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered 
hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities 
hereunder.  Lessee  shall  drill  si)ch  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a) 
develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  (herewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from 
uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as 
to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or 
operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  ot  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or 
permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  '"oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable 
law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  1 00.000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator 
facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment:  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the 
vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production, 
drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased 
premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royally  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  hy  this  lease  and  included  in  the 
unit  bears  to  tlie  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling 
rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage 
determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable 
hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  tiling 
of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  or  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  pan  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  ot  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations 
of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  Extend  lo  their  resi>ective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly 
authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee' s  usual 
form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's 


estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to 
their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  It' Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  lender  shut-in 
royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each, 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  ot  any  portion  of  the  area  covered 
by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided 
interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained 
hereunder. 


10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in  primary  and/or 
enhanced  recovery.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes, 
including  hut  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric 
and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transpon  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of 
cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  ot  other 
partial  termination  of  this  lease:  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 
When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on 
the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessors  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on 
the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including 
well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter, 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil.  gas,  and  other  subsiances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other 
operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or 
easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or 
failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or 
delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof  Lessee  shall  not  he  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease 
when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  uffer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease 
covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor 
hereby  agrees  lo  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  oTfer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of 
the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  afteT  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the 
offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully 
describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination 
that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the 
breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore  easement  under  and 
through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  .selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which 
are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  ot  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  hore  easements  shall  run 
with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  arid  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens 
existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  he  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made.  and.  in  addition  to 
its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor' s 
title,  Lessee  may  suspend  ihe  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other  operations. 


1 7.   Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of       2  years 


from  the  end  of  the 


primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  tease. 
18.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 


See  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto  and  by  reference  made  a  part  hereof. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on 
multiple  factors  and  that  this  Ixase  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without 
duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in 
the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this 
transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees, 
executors,  administrators,  successors  anil  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  LessoT. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  Tarrant 


UNTY  OF  Tarrant  Dft  \A.         MaJa  < 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  17th  dav  of  Mav    .  2008,  by      Robert  L.  Hohman  r-U.rT         '   «/T*l  ?  • 


Hate  of  Texas 
Notary's  n^rrie^printed) 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


uqrHwMitf 
mm*** 


2 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  Tarrant 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  17th  day  of  May    ,  2008,  by      Arlvss  N.  Hohman 


strument  was  acknowledged  before  n 


Notary  PuMc 


Ntfeffy  Public;  SteH  of  Texas    /  Af  A  U^iLAyfi 

Notary's  name  (prated): 

Notary's  commission  expires:  ^ 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


day  of 


20  ,  by_ 


of 


.corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  Qxpires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


Book 


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the 
 M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


.1  Page 


of  the 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


day  of . 


records  of  this  office. 

By  


20. 


at. 


Clerk  (or  Deputy} 


o'clock 


3 


EXHIBIT  "A" 

Attached  to  and  made  .a  part  of  that  certain  Paid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (No  Surface 
Use)      dated      the  day      of      May,      2008,      by      and  between 

K{kA7'  ^\jfhN-tyv**f\fih-  W)  as  Lessor,  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY 
Ca,  L.L.C.,  as^essee.  V^  ^ 

19.  Royalty:  It  is  agreed  and  understood  that  Lessor's  royalty  interest  will  never  be  charged 
with  any  part  of  Lessee's  direct  cost  of  producing,  storing,  separating,  dehydrating,  compressing, 
transporting  (excluding  common  carrier  tariffs  if  the  sales  price  is  a  market  value  price  at  a  delivery  point 
significantly  removed  from  the  wellhead.)  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  that, 
notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor 
under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing, 
separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and 
other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form;  however,  any  such 
costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better 
price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost 
of  such  enhancements.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than, 
the  price  received  by  Lessee. 

20.  Addendum  Provisions  Govern:  The  foregoing  Addendum  and  the  provisions  of  the 
Addendum  shall  supersede  and  govern  the  provisions  of  the  lease,  wherever  those  provisions  are  in 
conflict  with  the  Addendum.  This  lease,  including  the  Addendum,  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of,  and  be 
binding  upon  the  parties  hereto  and  other  respective  heirs,  representatives,  successors  and  assigns. 


Addendum  to  Lease 


Page  1  of  1 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP 
301  COMMERCE  ST  STE  600 


FT  WORTH  TX  76102 

Submitter:  CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$23.00 


D208220137 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


