tMOD  PRODUCERS  88  URB/REV.  PAID  UP  LEASE  Tract  No. 

NO.  SURFACE  USE  WITH  POOLING  PROVISION 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE 
FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS: 
YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


SUBSURFACE  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

7.9  day  of  _jVWZOJ_ 

r  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  3202  Vis 


THIS  AGREEMENT  ("Lease")  made  this         £°\  day  of    fY\ff\£J^H    ,  2008,  between 

John  E.  Nelson  and  wife.  Laurie  A.  Nelson  us  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  3202  Vista  Lake  Circle,  Mansfield,  Texas  76063  and  DDJET  Limited 
LLP,  as  Lessee,  whose  address  is  222  Benmar,  Houston,  Texas  77060,  WITNESSETH: 

1 .  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  no/100  Dollars  and  Other  Valuable  Consideration  ($  1 0.00  &  O.V.C.)  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided  and  of 
the  agreements  of  Lessee  herein  contained  hereby,  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and 
mining  for  and  producing  oil,  gas,  sulfur,  fissionable  materials  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to  those  mentioned),  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and 
geophysical  tests  and  surveys,  injecting  gas,  water  and  other  fluids  and  air  into  subsurface  strata,  laying  pipelines,  establishing  and  utilizing  facilities  for  the  disposition  of 
salt  water,  dredging  and  maintaining  canals,  building  roads,  bridges,  tanks,  telephone  lines,  power  stations  and  other  structures  thereon,  and  on,  over  and  across  lands 
owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  and  contiguous  thereto  necessary  to  Lessee  in  operations  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  transport  and  own  said  minerals,  the 
following  described  land  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  (herein  referred  to  as  the  "Lease  Premises"  or  the  "Land")  to-wit 

See  attached  Exhibit  "A"  for  Land  Description 

This  Lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  and  interest  in  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  Land  particularly  described  above, 
whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for  the 
purpose  of  providing  a  more  specific  description  of  the  Lease  Premises.  Furthermore,  Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  complete  the  description  of  the  Lease  Premises  by 
inserting,  as  appropriate,  the  applicable  Acreage,  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  in  the  description  set  forth  in  Exhibit  "A,"  attached  hereto. 

2.  Without  reference  to  the  commencement,  prosecution  or  cessation  at  any  time  of  drilling  or  other  development  operations,  and/or  to  the  discovery,  development 
or  cessation  at  any  time  of  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  and  without  further  payments  than  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  notwithstanding  anything  else 
herein  contained  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  Three  13)  years  from  the  date  hereof  (called  "Primary  Term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other 
mineral  is  produced  from  said  Land  or  land  pooled  therewith  hereunder,  or  as  long  as  this  Lease  is  continued  in  effect,  as  otherwise  provided  herein. 

3.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  are:  (a)  on  oil,  22.50%  of  that  produced  and  saved  from  said  Land  ,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of 
Lessor  into  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells  may  be  connected;  Lessee  may  from  time  to  lime  purchase  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession,  paying  the  market  price  therefore 
prevailing  for  the  field  where  produced  on  the  date  of  purchase,  and  Lessee  may  sell  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession  and  pay  Lessor  the  price  received  by  Lessee  for  such 
oil  computed  at  the  well;  (b)  on  gas,  including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substance,  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  or  used  off  the  Lease  Premises  or  for  the 
extraction  of  gasoline  or  other  product  therefrom,  the  market  value  at  the  well  of  22.50%  of  the  gas  so  sold  or  used,  provided  that  on  gas  sold  by  Lessee  the  market  value 
shall  not  exceed  the  amount  received  by  Lessee  for  such  gas  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  and  on  gas  sold  at  the  well  the  royalty  shall  be  22.50%  of  the  amount 
realized  by  Lessee  from  such  sale;  and  (c)  on  fissionable  materials  and  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine,  at 
Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulfur  mined  or  marketed,  the  royalty  shall  be  Two  Dollars  ($2.00)  per  long  ton.  [f  the  price  of  any  mineral  or  substance  upon  which 
royalty  is  payable  hereunder  is  regulated  by  any  governmental  agency,  the  market  value  or  market  price  of  such  mineral  or  substance  for  the  purpose  of  computing  royalty 
hereunder  shall  not  be  in  excess  of  the  price  which  Lessee  may  receive  and  retain.  Lessee  shall  have  free  from  royalty  or  other  payment  the  use  of  water,  other  than  water 
from  Lessor's  wells  or  tanks,  and  of  oil,  gas  and  coal  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises  in  all  operations  which  Lessee  may  conduct  hereunder,  including  water  injection 
and  secondary  recovery  operations,  and  the  royalty  on  oil,  gas  and  coal  shall  be  computed  after  deducting  any  so  used.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  on  said  Land  or  on  land 
pooled  therewith,  which  well  is  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  but  such  well  is  not  being  produced  and  this  Lease  is  not  being  maintained  otherwise  as  provided  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  whether  it  be  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term,  (unless  released  by  Lessee)  and  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  that  oil  and  gas  is  being 
produced  from  the  Lease  Premises  covered  by  this  Lease  when  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  (or  make  a  bona  fide  attempt  to  payor  tender)  as  royalty  to  the  partieswho  at  the 
time  of  such  payment  wouldh£f  ntitled  to  receive  royalty  hereunder  ifthe  well  was  producing,  or  deposit  to  their  credit  in  "ftQ  f\|   \jJ^L^Jl^*  £.fi£b.K  y)fc 

Bank  at  jrXfox^J^       J^frOc^JSL-fN   4  "1   (which  bank  as  agent  or  depository  anoits  successors  are 

royalty  owneroTowners  agent,  arid  shall  continue  as  dep^sn^  for  all  such  sums  which  Lessee  may  pay  hereunder  regardless  of  changes  in  ownership  or  royalties)  the 
sum  of  One  and  no/1 00  Dollar  ($  1 .00)  for  each  calendar  month,  or  portion  thereafter  during  which  said  well  is  situated  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  on  land  pooled  therewith, 
and  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained,  or  this  Lease  is  not  released  by  Lessee  as  to  the  land  on  which  or  the  horizon,  zone  or  formation  in  which  the  well  is  completed. 
The  first  payment  of  such  sum ,  shall  be  made  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each  calendar  month  after  expiration  of  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date  the  lease  is  not  otherwise 
maintained  for  all  accruals  to  such  date,  and  thereafter  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each  third  calendar  month  for  all  accruals  to  each  such  date  to  Lessor's  designated 
depository  bank  or,  if  a  depository  is  not  designated  above,  then  mailed  on  or  before  the  due  date  of  payment  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto  at  Lessor's  address  set  forth 
above  or  to  the  last  known  address  provided  in  writing  to  Lessee  by  Lessor.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  or  timely  pay  or  tender  any  such  sum  as  royalty  shall  render 
Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due  but  it  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  withhold  and 
accumulate  such  payments  payable  to  1  .essor  until  the  first  of  the  calendar  month  following  the  accumulation  of  Twenty-Five  and  no/100  Dollars  ($25.00)  when  payment 
shall  be  made  as  above  provided. 

4.  The  cash  down  payment  is  consideration  for  this  Lease  according  to  its  terms  and  shall  not  be  allocated  as  rental  for  a  period.  Lessee  may  at  any  time,  and  from 
time  to  time,  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor,  or  to  the  depository  bank,  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  Lease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  said  Land  or  of  any  m  ineral 
or  subsurface  interval  or  any  depths  thereunder  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  ail  obligations  as  to  the  released  land,  mineral,  horizon,  zone  or  formation.  If  this  Lease  is 
released  as  to  all  minerals,  horizons,  zones  and  formations  under  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  the  shut-in  royalty  and  other  payments  computed  in  accordance  therewith 
shall  thereupon  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  the  acreage  released  bears  to  the  acreage  which  was  covered  by  this  Lease  immediately  prior  to  such  release. 

5.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  is  hereby  given  the  right  and  power  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term  while  this  Lease  is  in  effect  to  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises, 
or  any  portion  thereof,  as  to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  Lease,  and/or  any  other  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  immediate 
vicinity  thereof,  when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  properly  to  explore,  or  to  develop  and  operate  the  Lease  Premises  in  compliance 
with  the  spacing  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil, 
gas  or  other  mineral  in  and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises.  Units  pooled  for  oil  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  40  acres  each  plus  a 
tolerance  of  10%  thereof;  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  160  acres  eaeh  plus  a  tolerance  of  10%  thereof,  provided  that  should 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size 
with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  stated  herein,  a  unit  tor  a  horizontal  well  may  include  (i)  the 
amount  of  acreage  allowed  for  obtaining  a  permit  to  drill  a  well  under  the  spacing  and  density  provisions  in  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellhore, 
plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater  than  40  acres),  or  (ii)  the  amount  of  acreage  allowed  for 
obtaining  a  full  production  allowable  under  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellbore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater  than  40  acres).  Lessee  may  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises  or  any  portion  thereof,  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any 
one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata  Units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  units  as  to  any  other 
stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  pool  this  Lease  or 
portions  thereof  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  an  instrument  describing  and 
designating  the  pooled  acreage  as  a  pooled  unit;  the  unit  shall  become  effective  as  provided  in  said  instruments,  or  if  said  instrument  makes  no  such  provision,  it  shall 
become  effective  upon  the  date  it  is  filed  for  record.  Each  unit  shall  be  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not 
the  unit  is  likewise  effective  as  to  all  other  owners  of  surface,  mineral,  royalty  or  other  rights  in  land  included  in  such  unit.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling 
option  as  to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  before  or  after  commencing  operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  or  wells  or  mine  tor  other  mineral  on  the  [.ease  Premises, 
and  the  pooled  unit  may  include,  but  is  not  required  to  include,  land  or  leases  upon  wfi'ich  a  well  or  mine  capable  of  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities 
has  theretofore  been  completed  or  upon  which  operations  for  drilling  of  a  well  or  mine  for  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  have  theretofore  been  commenced.  Operations  for 
drilling  on,  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  which  include,  all  or  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  regardless  of  whether  such 
operations  for  drilling  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or  after  the  execution  of  this  Lease  or  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit,  shall  be 
considered  as  operations  for  drilling  on  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  from  the  Lease  Premises  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  or  mine  be -located  on  the  Lease 
Premises,  and  the  entire  acreage  constituting  such  unit  or  units,  as  to  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  as  herein  provided,  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except 
the  payment  of  royalties  on  production  from  the  pooled  unit,  as  if  the  same  were  included  in  this  Lease;  provided  that  if  after  creation  of  a  pooled  unit,  a  well  or  mine  drilled 
on  the  unit  area,  other  than  on  the  land  covered  hereby  and  included  in  the  unit,  which  well  is  not  classified  as  the  type  of  well  for  which  the  unit  was  created  (oil,  gas  or 
other  mineral  as  the  case  may  be),  such  well  or  mine  shall  be  considered  a  dry  hole  for  purposes  of  applying  the  additional  drilling  and  reworking  provisions  of  Paragraph 
6  hereof.  If  an  oil  well  on  an  oil  unit,  which  includes  all  or  aportion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  a  gas  well,  or  if  a  gas  well  on  a  gas  unit,  which  includes  all  or 
a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  an  oil  well,  the  date  of  such  reclassification  shall  be  considered  as  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  for  purposes  of 
applying  the  additional  drilling  and  reworking  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  hereof  as  to  all  leases  any  part  of  which  are  included  in  the  unit  other  than  the  leased  premises  on 
which  the  well  is  located.  For  the  purpose  of  computing  royalties  to  which  owners  of  royalties  and  payments  out  of  production  and  each  of  them  shall  be  entitletfon 
production  of  oil.  gas  or  other  minerals  from  each  pooled  unit,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  included  in  said  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  withid  the 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  88  Mod/Urb/,  NSU  1 10507  page  ]  of  4 


unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  (racts  within  the  unit)  apro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  praduced  from  the  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on 
the  unit.  Such  allocation  shall  be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each 
separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  which  the 
number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  (or  in  each  separate  tract)  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit.  As  used  in 
this  paragraph,  the  words,  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part 
of  the  Lease  Premises.  Royaltic  s  hereunder  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  so  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises 
and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were  from  such  land.  Production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  a  gas  pooled  unit  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by 
instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  at  any  time  after  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  cessation  of 
production  on  said  unit. 


6.  If  at  the  expiration  o 
engaged  in  drilling  or  reworkin 


the  Primary  Term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then 
g  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  180  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall 


remain  in  force  so  long  as  opera  :ions  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and 
if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled 
therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith, 
the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  180  days  after  the 
cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  Lessee  continues  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of 
any  additional  well  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or 
he  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
660'  feet  of  and  draining  the  Lease  Premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably 


other  mineral  is  produced  from 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within 


prudent  operator  would  drill  un  ier  the  same  or  similar  circumstances. 


7.     Lessee  shall  have  the 
including  the  right  to  draw  and 
deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  fo 
feet  of  any  residence  or  bam  no|w 


8.     The  rights  of  either 
change  or  division  in  ownership 
liniited  to,  the  location  and  drilling 
(4?)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have 
evidencing  same.  In  the  event 
or  of  a  portion  thereof  who  corhmits 
furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument 


9.     Breach  by  Lessee  o 
hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cance|l  I 
Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lesse 
notice  in  which  to  commence 


right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  Lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  the  Lease  Premises, 
remove  all  casing.  When  necessary  for  utilization  of  the  surface  for  some  intended  use  by  Lessor  and  upon  request  of  Lessor  or  when 
protection  of  the  pipeline,  Lessee  will  bury  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall  be  drilled  within  two  hundred  (200') 
on  the  Lease  Premises  without  Lessor's  consent. 


party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns:  but  no 
of  the  land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not 
of  wells  and  the  measurement  of  production;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  forty-five 
been  furnished  by  registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments 
assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  Lease 
such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder,  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 


>f  any 


obligation  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  Lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created 
ation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this 
s  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  such 
iance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  Lease. 


compl 

10.  Lessor  hereby  wan-a- its  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien 
upon  the  Lease  Premises,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  if  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties  accruing 
hereunder  toward  satisfying  sarr  e.  When  required  by  state,  federal  or  other  law,  Lessee  may  withhold  taxes  with  respect  to  royalty  and  other  payments  hereunder  and  remit 
the  amounts  withheld  to  the  applicable  taxing  authority  for  the  credit  of  Lessor.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  if 
Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  oi],  gas  or  other  minerals  on,  in  or  under  the  Lease  Premises  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  purports  to  cover 
the  whole  or  a  fractional  interest,  the  royalties,  bonus  and  shut-in  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  shall  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  bears  to  the  whole  and 
undivided  fee  and  in  accordance  w'th  the  nature  of  the  estate  of  which  Lessor  is  seized.  Should  any  one  or  more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessor  fail  to  execute  this 
Lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  parties  executing  same.  If  title  investigation  for  Lessee  results  in  a  reduction  or  increase  of  bonus  consideration 
payable  to  Lessor,  the  resulting  bonus  payment  shall  be  deemed  for  all  purposes  to  be  paid  to  Lessor  on  the  date  when  Lessee's  check  (in  substitution  for  any  pre-delivered 
draft)  is  delivered  to  Lessor  pricr  to  its  due  date  or,  prior  to  its  due  date  is  mailed  to  Lessor  at  the  last  known  address  provided  by  Lessor. 


1 1 .    Should  Lessee  be 
on  land  pooled  therewith  or 
equipment  or  material,  or  by 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply 
extended  while  and  so  long  as 
the  Lease  Premises  or  land 
notwithstanding. 


prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or 
fron  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  therefrom  or  from  land  pooled  therewith  by  reason  of  scarcity  or  of  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use 
operation  of  force  majeure,  any  federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
w  ith  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  Lease  shall  be 
L<  ;ssee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  from 
pooled  therewith,  and  the  lime  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  Lease  to  the  contrary 


12.   Surface  Use 
Lease  Premises  to  exercise 
exploration  of  or  production 
horizontally  drilled  or  operated 
Lease  Premises  shall  be  reg 
continue  at  depths  below  five 
subsurface  easement  to  drill  and 
have  bottom  hole  locations  (if  a 
agrees  that  this  subsurface 


any 

from 


arded 


13.    Except  as  expressly 
gathering,  dehydration,  compression 
Lease  Premises.  After  delivery 


Restriction:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein,  Lessee  agrees  that  it  shall  have  no  right  to  use  the  surface  of  the 
of  the  rights  granted  hereunder  without  first  obtaining  Lessor's  written  consent.  This  provision  shall  in  no  way  restrict  Lessee's 
the  Lease  Premises  by  means  of  wells  drilled  on  other  lands  but  entering  or  bottomed  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Any  wells  directionally  or 
lender  the  Lease  Premises  with  bottomhole  locations  (for  vertical  wells)  or  with  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (for  horizontal  wells)  on  the 
as  if  the  wells  were  drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Lessee  agrees  that  any  drilling  under  the  Lease  Premises  shall  commence  at  and 
hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth.  In  addition  to  Lessee's  other  rights  under  this  Lease,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee  a 
operate  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  under  and  through  the  Lease  Premises  to  reach  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  and  which  wells 
vertical  well)  or  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (if  a  horizontal  well)  on  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee 
easement  shall  commence  at  and  continue  at  all  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth. 


provided  above  in  Paragraph  3,  Lessor's  royalty  may  not  be  charged  directly,  or  indirectly,  with  any  of  the  expenses  of  production, 
,  processing,  or  treating  the  gas  produced  from  the  land  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  inlet  of  a  gas  pipeline  evacuating  gas  from  the 
iit  said  inlet,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  costs  and  expenses,  including  transportation,  to  the  point  of  sale. 


1 4.  Each  singular  pronot  n  herein  shall  include  the  plural  whenever  applicable. 

1 5.  For  convenience,  thi;  instrument  may  be  executed  in  multiple  counterparts  and  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  for  recording  purposes  their  respective  signature 


page  and  acknowledgments  ma; 


be  removed  from  their  respective  counterpart  and  attached  to  a  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  and  for  all  purposes  and  obligations 


hereunder  this  shall  be  considered  as  one  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease. 

16.  Lessor  shall,  upon  th<;  request  of  Lessee,  use  its  best  efforts  in  assisting  Lessee  in  obtaining  a  subordination  of  Deed  of  Trust  or  similar  security  instrument  that 
may  affect  the  Lease  Premises.  Additionally,  in  the  event  Lessor  receives  a  notice  of  default,  acceleration  of  loan,  or  notice  of  sale  under  a  Deed  of  Trust  or  other  security- 
instrument  affecting  the  Lease  Premises,  Lessor  shall  immediately  provide  copies  of  any  such  notice,  and  all  additional  relevant  facts,  to  Lessee.  In  this  regard.  Lessor 
shall  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests  of  Lessee. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this 


instrument  is  executed  on  the  dale  first  above  written. 


By: 


/  (Individually  anUon^ll  Capacitiesiorthe  ab< 


above  described  Land) 


OUUAU 


ipacities  for  the  above  de 


Printed  Name: 


Printed  Name: 


Title: 


;div!dually  and  in  all  Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land) 

Leuiric  h)d&A  


Title: 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  88  Mod/Urb/,  NSU  1  \O507 


Page  2  of 4 


J 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  '  /+&c+»jr-  § 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared     UaJt*J   {5ir/c  Afl 


known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


SEAL: 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the     ZT^ay  of  A^A^r^ 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 
Signature  of  Notary: 

(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires:  / 3" 


,  2008. 


ERIC  TIRONE  SMITH 

Noiary  Poblic,  State  of  Texas 

My  Commission  Expires 

February  13,  2011 

Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  ~7A*fUUJ7- 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared     /LjLU/U^T     /[f&fj%B^     AlCA    /tfuje/t  A*Mis*sJ 

known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


SEAL: 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFiCE,  this  the  day  of  _/U^uA 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  ofTexas. 
Signature  of  Notary: 

(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires:         *~~f^ —  PjCj  t  f 


2008. 


ER,C  mom  SMITH 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 

'■  C"5«r.U      My  Commission  Expires 
^ffihiW        February  13,2011 


Corporate  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me,  on  this  day  of 

 ,  2008,  by  ,  of 

(Name  of  officer)  (Title  of  officer) 

,  a  corporation, 


(Name  of  corporation)  (state  of  incorporation) 

on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  and  year  last  above  written. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  ofTexas. 

Signature  of  Notary:  


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
SEAL:  My  Commission  Expires:  


DDJET  O&G  Prod  88  Mod/Orb/,  »SU  110507  Page  3  0f  4 


Exhibit  "A" 
Land  Description 

Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  day  of  _  WUvfSCH    ,  2008, 

by  and  between,  DDJET  Limited  LLP  as  Lessee  and  John  E.  Nelson  and  wife,  Laurie  A.  Nelson  as  Lessor. 

Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  insert  the  Acreage,  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  below,  if  it  is  not  already 
included.  From  time  to  time  Lessee  may  determine  that  some  part  or  all  of  the  Lease  Premises  should  be  more  specifically 
described,  in  which  case  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for 
such  re-description. 

0.242  acre(s)  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  J.  Back  Survey,  Abstract  No.  126,  and  being  Block  3,  Lot  2,  The  Lakes  of 
Creekwood  Addition,  Section  three,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Mansfield,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat 
recorded  in  Volume/Cabinet  A,  Page/Slide  8720,  of  the  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  being  further  described  in 
that  certain  Deed  dated  01/03/2008  and  recorded  as  in  Instrument  No.  D208010945  of  the  Official  Records  of  Tarrant 
County,  Texas. 


HARDING  COMPANY 

13465  MlDWiVRQAn  QTc 
DALLAS,  TEXAS  752i4   E-  4°° 
PHONE  (214)  36L4292 
FAX  (214)  750-7351 


DDJhT  O&G  Piod  88  Mod/Urb/,  NSLJ  1 1 0507 


Payc  4  of  4 


HOA  APPROVED  LAKES  OF  CREEKWOOD  ADDENDUM 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  * 
Date     KWoU-   /  2008,  between  LLM  Nltfig^o  JbLktns  A.KlAk  vO 

(address)  U,<n.   f^.os-  fc^,W -UW^/T*  ,/5sLessor(s),  and 

DDJET  LIMITED  LLP,  as  Lessee. 

1.  AGREEMENTS  SUPERSEDE 

It  is  understood  and  agreed  by  ail  parties  hereto  that  the  provisions  of  this 
Addendum  supersede  any  provisions  to  the  contrary  contained  in  the 
printed  lease  hereof. 

2.  ROYALTY 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  3  of  the  printed  portion  of  this  lease, 
royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid 
by  Lessee  to  Lessor(s)  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at 
Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-two  and  one-half  percent 
(22.5%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  to  Lessor(s)  free  of  any  production  or  post- 
production  costs,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  sell  any 
production  in  its  possession  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  average  of  the  three  highest 
prices  being  paid  by  third  parties  not  affiliated  with  the  seller  in  first  sales  at  arms-length 
for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  from  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  average 
price  then  available  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  from  the  same  field,  then  such 
average  price  of  oil  and  liquid  hydrocarbons  from  the  nearest  field  for  which  there  is 
such  an  average  price)  for  oil  and  liquid  hydrocarbons  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b) 
for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas),  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-two  and  one-half  percent 
(22.5%)  of  the  gross  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee.  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  determined 
and  delivered  to  Lessor(s)  free  of  any  development,  production,  compression, 
processing,  treating,  gathering,  transportation,  delivery,  marketing,  or  other  post- 
production  costs  beyond  the  wellhead  to  the  point  of  delivery  to  the  inlet  of  the  gas 
pipeline  evacuating  gas  from  the  Leased  Premises.  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  sell  such  gas  and  components  to  itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  average  of  the  three 
highest  prices  being  paid  by  third  parties  not  affiliated  with  the  seller  in  first  sales  at 
arms-length  of  gas  and  liquid  hydrocarbon  or  other  components  of  similar  BTU  content 
from  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  average  price  then  available  for  gas,  liquids 
and  other  components  from  the  same  field,  then  such  average  price  for  production  from 
the  nearest  field  for  which  there  is  such  an  average  price)  pursuant  to  comparable 
purchase  arrangements  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date 
on  which  Lessee  or  its  affiliate  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  in 
calculating  royalties  on  production  hereunder,  Lessee  may  deduct  Lessor's 
proportionate  part  of  any  ad  valorem,  production  and  excise  taxes. 

3.  PAYMENT  OF  ROYALTIES 

Accounting  and  payment  to  Lessor(s)  of  royalties  from  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  from 
any  well  shall  commence  no  later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  first  production. 


1 


Thereafter,  unless  otherwise  specifically  provided  herein,  all  accountings  and  payments 
of  royalties  shall  be  made  promptly  within  a  reasonable  time  from  production  if  delivered 
in  kind  or  from  receipt  by  Lessee  if  sold  or  used  or  removed  from  said  land  by  Lessee, 
and  in  no  event  later  than  the  25th  day  of  the  second  calendar  month  following  the 
calendar  month  in  which  the  production,  use,  removal  or  sale  occurred.  Unless 
otherwise  herein  expressly  provided,  any  royalties  or  other  payments  provided  for  in  the 
Lease  which  are  suspended  or  not  paid  to  Lessor(s)  within  the  time  period  specified 
therefore  shall  accrue  interest  at  the  rate  of  interest  specified  or  generally  applicable  to 
judgments  in  Texas  compounded  daily  (but  not  to  exceed,  and  limited  to,  the  highest 
rate  which  may  be  legally  contracted  for  by  parties  in  the  position  of  Lessor(s)  and 
Lessee)  from  the  due  date  until  paid.  Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  which  are  past 
due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  Lessor's  right  to  receive  or  recover  any  and 
all  interest  due  thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof  unless  the  written  acceptance  or 
acknowledgment  by  Lessor(s)  to  Lessee  expressly  so  provides.  The  rights  of  Lessor(s) 
under  this  paragraph  shall  be  in  addition  to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor(s)  may 
have  as  to  payment  of  royalty  under  Texas  law,  including,  without  limitation,  V.T.C.A. 
Natural  Resources  Code  §§  91.401  through  91.405.  Following  30  days  prior  notice, 
Lessor(s)  shall  have  reasonable  access  to  the  books,  records  and  drilling  and 
production  data  (excluding  interpretive  data)  and  related  information  of  Lessee  to  the 
extent  the  same  relate  to  wells  drilled  on  said  land  or  on  land  with  which  all  or  part  of 
said  land  is  pooled. 

4,  SHUT-IN  ROYALTIES 

It  is  expressly  agreed  and  understood  that  Lessee's  right  to  maintain  this  lease  in  force 
after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalty 
under  Paragraph  3  of  this  lease  shall  be  limited  to  36  months  in  the  aggregate.  In 
determining  the  cumulative  period  in  which  a  well  may  be  shut-in,  periods  in  which  a 
well  is  shut-in  because  of  (a)  downstream  pipeline  malfunction,  maintenance  or  repair, 
(b)  curtailment  by  downstream  purchasers  or  transporters  of  gas  or  (c)  matters  of  force 
majeure  shall  not  be  considered  or  count  against  such  cumulative  period.  In  the  event 
Lessee  defaults  in  the  timely  payment  of  the  shut-in  royalty  hereunder,  and  said  default 
continues  for  a  period  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  written  notice  from  Lessor(s)  of  said 
default  then  this  lease  shall,  ipso  facto,  terminate.  Further  notwithstanding  the 
provisions  contained  in  Paragraph  3  of  this  lease  the  annual  shut-in  payment  amount 
shall  be  $25.00  per  net  mineral  acre.  If,  after  such  36  month  period  has  expired  and 
Lessee  is  thereafter  required  to  shut  in  all  weil(s)  on  the  Lease  due  to  an  inability  to  (1) 
obtain  a  reasonable  market  for  the  gas  or  (2)  where  Lessee  does  have  a  gas  contract 
but  lessee's  purchaser  of  gas  refuses  or  is  unable  to  purchase  and  take  such  gas  due  to 
no  fault  of  Lessee,  then  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  to  the  Lessor(s)  at  the  address  last 
given  to  Lessee,  as  royalty,  at  annua!  intervals,  a  sum  equal  to  $25.00  Dollars  per  net 
acre  for  each  acre  then  subject  to  this  Lease  and  it  will  be  considered  that  gas  is  being 
produced  from  this  Lease  in  paying  quantities  during  any  period  for  which  payment  is 
made.  Such  payments  shall  be  made  no  later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  the 
wells  are  shut  in  or  the  Lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained,  whichever  is  later,  and 
subsequent  payments,  if  Lessee  is  still  unable  to  market  such  gas  for  the  above 


2 


reasons,  will  be  due  annually  thereafter  (if  this  Lease  is  not  being  otherwise  maintained 
in  force)  on  the  anniversary  date  of  the  period  for  which  the  prior  payment  was  made. 

5.  OIL  AND  GAS  ONLY 

Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  it  is  understood  and  agreed  that  this  lease 
covers  and  includes  oil  and  gas  only  (including  with  oil  and  gas,  all  constituent  elements 
thereof  and  al!  other  liquefiable  hydrocarbons  and  products  of  every  kind  or  character 
derived  there  from  and  produced  therewith  from  the  well  bore,  including  sulphur),  and 
that  all  minerals  other  than  oil  and  gas  are  excepted  herefrom  and  reserved  to 
Lessor(s).  Solid  minerals,  such  as  iron,  coal,  sand,  gravel,  clay,  uranium  and  sulphur 
(apart  from  sulphur  produced  through  the  well  bore)  are  excluded  from  this  lease. 

6.  POOLING 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  5  of  the  printed  lease,  in  the  case  of 
pooling  hereunder,  all  of  the  Lease  Premises  shall  be  included  in  any  unit  so  formed. 

7.  SURFACE  OCCUPANCY 
Lessee  does  not  by  virtue  of  this  lease  acquire  any  rights  whatsoever  to  conduct  any 
operations  on  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises  without  first  obtaining  the  prior  written 
consent  of  Lessor(s),  however,  Lessee  may  recover  oil,  gas  and  associated 
hydrocarbons  from  the  lease  premises  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling,  pooling, 
unitization  or  any  other  method  provided  in  this  lease. 

8.  DEPTH  LIMITATION  CLAUSE 

This  lease  is  specifically  limited  in  scope  to  only  those  formations  and  geologic  strata 
under  the  described  lands  located  between  the  surface  of  the  ground  and  down  to  and 
1 00  feet  below  the  deepest  producing  formation  of  any  well  drilled  upon  the  leased 
premises  or  acreage  pooled  therewith  within  the  primary  term  of  this  lease.  All 
formations  and  strata  and  all  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  therein  located,  as  well  as  all 
rights  to  explore  and  drill  therefore  below  said  prescribed  depth,  are  excepted  from  this 
lease  and  reserved  unto  and  fully  retained  by  the  Lessor(s),  The  Lessor(s)  also 
reserves,  retains  and  holds  unto  Lessor(s)  all  necessary  rights  of  ingress  and  egress 
with  drilling  equipment  and  other  equipment  for  the  purpose  of  fully  developing  and 
exploring  for  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  into  the  lower  formations  herewith  reserved. 

9.  WELL  INFORMATION 

If  requested  in  writing  by  Lessor(s),  whenever  Lessee  files  a  report  with  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas  or  other  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including,  but 
not  limited  to,  applications  to  drill,  well  tests,  completion  reports,  plugging  records  and 
production  reports,  Lessee  shall,  at  the  time,  deliver  a  copy  of  the  report  to  Lessor(s). 

10.  LEGAL  COMPLIANCE 

Lessee  shall  conduct  all  operations  hereunder  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  rules 
and  regulations  of  the  Texas  Commission  on  Environmental  Quality  and  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas,  and  Lessee  shall  strictly  observe  and  comply  with  all  applicable 
local,  state  and  federal  environmental  laws  and  regulations  dealing  with  the  herein 


3 


leased  premises  and  shall  indemnify  and  hold  harmless  Lessor(s)  for  any  losses 
incurred  as  a  resuit  of  violations  thereof. 

11.  INDEMNITY  AND  INSURANCE 

LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND 
LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL 
EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY 
NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ATTORNEY  FEES,  EXPERT 
FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  THE  LAND 
OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY 
VIOLATION  OF  ANY  APPLICABLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY 
LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES 
LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY 
OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS 
INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS.  AS  A  CONDITION  PRECEDENT  FOR  LESSOR'S 
RIGHT  TO  ENFORCE  THIS  INDEMNITY,  LESSOR  SHALL  NOTIFY  LESSEE  IN 
WRITING  OF  ANY  CLAIM  ASSERTED  AGAINST  LESSOR,  WITHIIN  30  DAYS 
AFTER  SUCH  CLAIM  IS  ASSERTED  AND  LESSOR  SHALL  GIVE  FULL  DETAILS 
OF  SUCH  CLAIM.  LESSEE  SHALL  HAVE  THE  RIGHT  AT  ANY  TIME  TO  TAKE 
OVER  THE  DEFENSE  OF  ANY  SUCH  CLAIM.  IN  ANY  EVENT,  LESSOR  SHALL 
KEEP  LESSEE  FULLY  ADVISED  OF  THE  STATUS  OF  THE  CLAIM  AND  NO 
SETTLEMENT  OF  ANY  CLAIM  SHALL  BE  MADE  WITHOUT  LESSEE'S  WRITTEN 
CONSENT.  LESSEE'S  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  SHALL  TERMINATE  UPON  THE 
EARLIER  OF  THE  EXPIRATION  OF  ANY  APPLICABLE  STATUTE  OF  LIMITATIONS 
OR  FOUR  YEARS  AFTER  TERMINATION  OF  THIS  LEASE.  At  all  times  while  this 
Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  self  insure  or  acquire  and  maintain  insurance  covering  all 
of  its  operations  on  the  Land,  including  any  work  performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors, 
subcontractors,  and  others,  naming  Lessor(s)  as  an  additional  insured.  The  policies 
shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability,  for  bodily  injury  and  property 
damage,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the 
environment,  including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean  up  and  reasonably  practical 
surface  remediation. 

12.  RELEASE 

Upon  expiration  or  termination  of  this  lease  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises,  Lessee  shall  be  obligated  at  its  expense  to  promptly  prepare,  execute 
and  within  forty-five  (45)  days  of  such  expiration  or  termination  file  in  the  public  records 
in  the  county  in  which  said  leased  premises  is  located  an  appropriate  release  instrument 
covering  all  or  such  portion  of  said  leased  premises  as  may  be  applicable  hereunder, 
and  to  promptly  forward  a  copy  of  same  as  so  recorded  to  Lessor(s).  The  provisions  of 
this  paragraph  shall  apply  each  time  that  a  termination  occurs. 

13.  NO  WARRANTIES. 

Lessor(s)  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance 
of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate 


4 


and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land,  and 
Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures,  subject  only  to  the  provisions  set  forth  herein.  If 
Lessor(s)  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the 
royalties  and  shut  in  royalties  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that 
Lessor's  interest  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  and  in  accordance  with  the 
nature  of  the  estate  owned  by  Lessor(s).  Further,  if  Lessor(s)  owns  less  than  the  full 
bonus  rights  for  the  mineral  estate  in  and  under  the  land,  the  bonus  consideration  paid 
for  this  lease  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  and  any  overpayment  of  bonus  refunded 
to  Lessee  within  30  days  of  Lessee  providing  Lessor(s)  with  an  opinion  of  counsel  that 
Lessor(s)  owns  less  than  the  full  right  to  bonus.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge 
any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  on  the  Land  that  is  in  default,  and  in  the  event  Lessee 
does  so,  Lessee  will  have  the  option  of  applying  the  royalties  accruing  to  the  Lessor(s) 
who  is  in  default  toward  payment  of  any  amounts  so  discharged. 

15.  ATTORNEY'S  FEES 

in  the  event  that  Lessor(s)  or  Lessee  shall  be  required  to  employ  legal  counsel  for  the 
enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  lease,  the  prevailing  party  shall  be  entitled  to 
recover  its  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  in  such  proceeding. 

16.  LAW  AND  VENUE.  The  rights  and  duties  of  the  parties  under  this  lease  shall  be 
governed  by  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas.  Venue  for  any  action  arising  hereunder 
shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

17.  MEMORANDUM  OF  LEASE 

The  parties  hereto  agree  that  a  Memorandum  of  Lease  may  be  recorded  in  the  Public 
Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  to  evidence  the  existence  of  this  lease. 

18.  BINDING  EFFECT 

This  lease  shall  be  binding  on  the  parties  hereto  and  their  successors,  assigns,  heirs 
and  legal  representatives. 

SIGNED  FOR  IDENTIFICATION: 
LESSOR(S) 


(Print) 


5 


HARDING  CO 

13465  MIDWAY  RD  400 


DALLAS 


TX  75244 


Submitter:  PETROCASA  ENERGY-INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 

TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration :      06/1 3/2003  10:15  AM 
Instrument^:  D208226605 


■lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 


D208226605 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


$48.00 


Printed  by:  WD 


