Of  THE 

/  V,         day  of  ^^ttf^^cZ-   _ 


unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  a  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on 
the  unit.  Such  allocation  shall  be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each 
separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  which  the 
number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  (or  in  each  separate  tract)  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit.  As  used  in 
this  paragraph,  the  words,  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  di  ffering,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part 
of  the  Lease  Premises.  Royalties  hereunder  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  so  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises 
and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were  from  such  land.  Production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  a  gas  pooled  unit  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit.  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by 
instrument  filed  for  record  in  die  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  at  any  time  after  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  cessation  of 
production  on  said  unit 

6.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  180  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall 
remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and 
if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled 
therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith, 
the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  1 80  days  after  the 
cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  Lessee  continues  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of 
any  additional  well  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or 
other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  660'  feet  of  and  draining  the  Lease  Premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  Lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  the  Lease  Premises, 
including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing.  When  necessary  for  utilization  of  the  surface  for  some  intended  use  by  Lessor  and  upon  request  of  Lessor  or  when 
deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  for  protection  of  the  pipeline.  Lessee  will  bury  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall  be  drilled  within  two  hundred  (2001) 
feet  of  any  residence  or  barn  now  on  the  Lease  Premises  without  Lessor's  consent. 

8.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns:  but  no 
change  or  division  in  ownership  of  die  land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not 
limited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement  of  production;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  forty-five 
(45)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by  registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments 
evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  Lease 
or  of  a  portion  thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder.  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

9.  Breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  Lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created 
hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this 
Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  such 
notice  in  which  to  commence  compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  Lease. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien 
upon  the  Lease  Premises,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  if  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties  accruing 
hereunder  toward  satisfying  same.  When  required  by  state,  federal  or  other  law.  Lessee  may  withhold  taxes  with  respect  to  royalty  and  other  payments  hereunder  and  remit 
the  amounts  withheld  to  the  applicable  taxing  authority  for  the  credit  of  Lessor.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  if 
Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  on,  in  or  under  the  Lease  Premises  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  purports  to  cover 
the  whole  or  a  fractional  interest,  the  royalties,  bonus  and  shut-in  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  shall  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  bears  to  the  whole  and 
undivided  fee  and  in  accordance  with  the  nature  of  the  estate  of  which  Lessor  is  seized.  Should  any  one  or  more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessor  fail  to  execute  this 
Lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  parties  executing  same.  If  title  investigation  for  l^see  results  in  a  reduction  or  increase  of  bonus  consideration 
payable  to  Lessor,  the  resulting  bonus  payment  shall  be  deemed  for  all  purposes  to  be  paid  to  Lessor  on  the  date  when  Lessee's  check  (in  substitution  for  any  pre-delivered 
draft)  is  delivered  to  Lessor  prior  to  its  due  date  or,  prior  to  its  due  date  is  mailed  to  Lessor  at  the  last  known  address  provided  by  Lessor. 

U.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or 
on  land  pooled  therewith  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  therefrom  or  from  land  pooled  therewith  by  reason  of  scarcity  or  of  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use 
equipment  or  material,  or  by  operation  offeree  majeure,  any  federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  Lease  shall  be 
extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  from 
the  Lease  Premises  or  land  pooled  therewith,  and  the  time  white  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  Lease  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding. 

12.  Surface  Use  Restriction:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein,  Lessee  agrees  that  it  shall  have  no  right  to  use  the  surface  of  the 
Lease  Premises  to  exercise  any  of  the  rights  granted  hereunder  without  first  obtaining  Lessor's  written  consent  This  provision  shall  in  no  way  restrict  Lessee's 
exploration  of  or  production  from  the  Lease  Premises  by  means  of  wells  drilled  on  other  lands  but  entering  or  bottomed  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Any  wells  directionally  or 
horizontally  drilled  or  operated  under  the  Lease  Premises  with  bottomhole  locations  (for  vertical  wells)  or  with  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (for  horizontal  wells)  on  the 
Lease  Premises  shall  be  regarded  as  if  the  wells  were  drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Lessee  agrees  that  any  drilling  under  the  Lease  Premises  shall  commence  at  and 
continue  at  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth.  In  addition  to  Lessee's  other  rights  under  this  Lease,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee  a 
subsurface  easement  to  drill  and  operate  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  under  and  through  the  Lease  Premises  to  reach  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  and  which  wells 
have  bottom  hole  locations  (if  a  vertical  well)  or  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (if  a  horizontal  well)  on  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee 
agrees  that  this  subsurface  easement  shall  commence  at  and  continue  at  all  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth. 

13.  Except  as  expressly  provided  above  in  Paragraph  3,  Lessor's  royalty  may  not  be  charged  directly,  or  indirectly,  with  any  of  the  expenses  of  production, 
gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  processing,  or  treating  the  gas  produced  from  the  land  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  inlet  of  a  gas  pipeline  evacuating  gas  from  the 
Lease  Premises.  After  delivery  at  said  inlet,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  costs  and  expenses,  including  transportation,  to  the  point  of  sale. 

1 4.  Each  singular  pronoun  herein  shall  include  the  plural  whenever  applicable. 

1 5.  For  convenience,  this  instrument  may  be  executed  in  multiple  counterparts  and  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  for  recording  purposes  their  respective  signature 
page  and  acknowledgments  may  be  removed  from  their  respective  counterpart  and  attached  to  a  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  and  for  all  purposes  and  obligations 
hereunder  this  shall  be  considered  as  one  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease. 

16.  Lessor  shall,  upon  the  request  of  Lessee,  use  its  best  efforts  in  assisting  Lessee  in  obtaining  a  subordination  of  Deed  of  Trust  or  similar  security  instrument  that 
may  affect  the  Lease  Premises.  Additionally,  in  the  event  Lessor  receives  a  notice  of  default,  acceleration  of  loan,  or  notice  of  sale  under  a  Deed  of  Trust  or  other  security 
instrument  affecting  the  Lease  Premises,  Lessor  shall  immediately  provide  copies  of  any  such  notice,  and  all  additional  relevant  facts,  to  Lessee.  In  this  regard,  Lessor 
shall  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests  of  Lessee. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  88  Mod/UrW,  NSU  110507 


Page  2  of  4 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

county  of  7^trr/j^  § 

BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared      /y^i^/9/^/^  ^4^U   , 

known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  \i 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  of   cJt&tf&nJ         .^^^^  3f 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas.  >  r 


Signature  of  Notary: 


SEAL: 


^  MY  COMMISSION  EXPIRES 
°eCE«B€R6.2011 


nt  Name  of  Notary  Here)  / /  / 

Commission  Expires:         /^2^s  ^/// 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  7$ \ 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared        /  ™  !        ' '  ' 

known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  tf&fa  acknowledged  to  me  thai  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


SEAL: 


y 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the     /2-day  of  ,/#h/srrf^\/  2oSr  ^*  Iff 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas.  ^ 
Signature  of  Notary: 


,2011 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here)         -  ? 
My  Commission  Expires:  /  H Ss  f 

Corporate  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


by 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me,  on  this 


day  of. 


2007, 
of 


(Name  of  officer) 


(Title  of  officer) 


corporation, 


(Slate  of  incorporation) 


(Name  of  corporation) 

on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  and  year  last  above  written. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 

Signature  of  Notary:  


SEAL: 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires:  


DD.IETO&G  Prod  SK  Mnd/UrW.  NSU  021207 


Page  J  nf4 


Exhibit  "A" 
Land  Description 


?w%/ 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  /^2.   day  of    jjt/^^r^y  * 
by  and  between,  DDJET  Limited  LLP  as  Lessee  and  Howard  H  Nguyen  and  wife,  Phtionq  T  Nil  u  rr  n  "as  ^/gB^*) 

Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  insert  the  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  below,  if  it  Ts  not  already  included.  From 
time  to  time  Lessee  may  determine  that  some  part  or  all  of  the  Lease  Premises  should  be  more  specifically  described,  in 
which  case  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for  such 
re-description. 

0.182  acre(s)of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  t/  ^  /{? e/s^  Survey,  Abstract  No.  S/£  £  and  being  Block  2 
Lot  29,  Ambercrest  Addition,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  recorded  in 
Volume/Cabinet  -  /  ¥  ty^Sptf  Page/Slide  — of  the  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  further 
described  in  that  certain  Instrument  dated  6/6/2001  and  recorded  in  Volume  0014957,  Page  0000041,  in  the  Official  Records 
of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Recording  Return  to: 
HARDING  COMPANY 
13465  MIDWAY  ROAD,  STE  400 
DALLAS.  TEXAS  75244  ' 
PHONE  (214)  361-4292 
FAX  (214)  750-7351 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  88  Mod/Urn/.  NSU  021 207 


Page  4  of 4 


Initial 


HARDING  COMPANY 
13465  MIDWAY  RD  #400 


DALLAS  TX  75244 

Submitter:  PETROCASA  ENERGY-INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 

FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$28.00 


D208227861 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


