NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

(Paid-Up  Lease) 


This  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (this  "Lease")  is  made  on  May  30  ,  2008  .  2008  between       Don  Fields 

and  Shirley  Smith  Fields  

(hereafter  called  "Lessor"),  whose  address  is  _10QI  S.  Bowen  Rd,  Arlington  TX  76013  ,  and  AXIA 

Land  Services,  LLC,  whose  address  is  801  Cherry  Street,  Suite  3850,  Unit  39,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76102(hereafter 
called  "Lessee"). 

1.  Grant.  In  consideration  of  Ten  Dollars  and  other  consideration  in  hand  paid,  Lessor  grants  and 
leases  exclusively  unto  Lessee  the  land  described  in  attached  Exhibit  A  (the  "Land")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for 
the  sole  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling,  and  producing  oil  and  gas,  and  to  produce,  save  and  transport  oil  and  gas  and 
other  products  manufactured  from  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  Land,  but  only  as  to  the  Barnett  Shale  formation  or 
the  stratagraphic  equivalent  thereof.  This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  any  interest  which  Lessor  may  own  in  any 
street,  alley,  highway,  railroad,  canal,  river,  body  of  water,  or  any  other  land  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  land 
described  above,  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within 
the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 

2.  Primary  Term.  This  Lease  is  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called  "Primary  Term") 
and  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land  in  paying  quantities. 

3.  Minerals  Covered.  This  Lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas, 
and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore. 


4.  Royalty,  (a)  As  royalties,  Lessee  agrees: 


(1)  On  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and  saved  from  the  Land,  to  pay  Lessor 
1/4  (the  "Royalty  Fraction")  of  the  market  value  at  the  point  of  sale  of  such  oil,  or  at  Lessor's  option,  which  may  be 
exercised  from  time  to  time,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  all  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and  saved  from 
the  Land  shall  be  delivered  free  of  cost  to  Lessor  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  at  the  pipeline  to  which  the 
wells  may  be  connected. 


(a)        To  pay  to  Lessor: 


(i)  25%  of  all  oil  (including  distillate  or  condensate  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons)  produced  and 
saved  from  the  Land,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  the  well  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  into  the  pipeline  to  which  the 
well  or  wells  may  be  connected. 


(ii)        25%  of  the  gross  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  at  the  point  of  delivery  or  first  sale  of  all  gas, 
including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substances,  produced  from  the  Land. 


(hi)  25%  of  the  gross  proceeds  of  all  plant  products  (including  residue  gas),  free  of  any  processing 
cost,  where  gas  is  processed  in  a  plant  on  or  off  the  Land  by  Lessee  or  any  affiliated  person  or  entity,  and  if 
processed,  but  not  by  Lessee  or  an  affiliated  person  or  entity,  25%  of  that  part  of  the  gross  proceeds  received  by 
Lessee  for  the  processed  gas  and  products  therefrom  that  are  allocable  to  the  production  from  the  Land. 


(iv)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  by  Lessee  or  used  off  the  Land  and  to  which  the 
following  subparagraphs  (ii)  and  (hi)  do  not  apply,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  at  the  point  of  sale,  use 
or  other  disposition. 

(v)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  that  is  processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee  or  an 
affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  the  gas  at  the  inlet  to 
the  processing  plant,  or  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  all  processed  liquids  saved  from  the  gas  at  the 
plant  plus  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  all  residue  gas  at  the  point  of  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition. 

(vi)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  that  is  processed  in  facilities  other  than  a  processing  plant  in 
which  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  gross  proceeds  at 
the  plant  of  all  processed  liquids  credited  to  the  account  of  Lessee  and  attributable  to  the  gas  plus  the  Royalty 
Fraction  of  the  gross  proceeds  of  all  residue  gas  at  the  point  of  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition. 

(b)  The  market  value  of  gas  will  be  determined  at  the  specified  location  by  reference  to  the 
gross  heating  value  (measured  in  British  thermal  units)  and  quality  of  the  gas.  The  market  value  used  in  the 
calculation  of  oil  and  gas  royalty  will  never  be  less  than  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  connection  with  the 
sale,  use,  or  other  disposition  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced  or  sold.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  if  Lessee  receives 
from  a  purchaser  of  oil  or  gas  any  reimbursement  for  all  or  any  part  of  severance  or  production  taxes,  or  if  Lessee 
realizes  proceeds  of  production  after  deduction  for  any  expense  of  production,  gathering,  dehydration,  separation, 
compression,  transportation,  treatment,  processing,  storage,  or  marketing,  then  the  reimbursement  or  the  deductions 
will  be  added  to  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee.  Royalty  will  be  payable  on  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the 
Land  and  consumed  by  Lessee  on  the  Land  for  compression,  dehydration,  fuel,  or  other  use. 


(c)  Lessor's  royalty  will  never  bear,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  part  of  the  costs  or 
expenses  of  production,  separation,  dehydration,  processing  treating,  gathering,  compression,  transportation, 
trucking,  storage,  or  marketing  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith,  or  any  part  of  the 
costs  of  construction,  operation,  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facilities  or  equipment  used  in  the  handling  of 
oil  or  gas.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than  the  price  received  by 
Lessee  from  an  unaffiliated  third  party  purchaser. 

(d)  If  gas  produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith  is  sold  by  Lessee  pursuant  to  an 
arms-length  contract  with  a  purchaser  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  and  the  contract  provides  for  net  proceeds  to 
be  paid  to  Lessee  that  equal  or  exceed  the  market  value  of  the  gas  at  the  point  of  delivery  to  the  purchaser,  and  for  a 
term  no  longer  than  that  which  is  usual  and  customary  in  the  industry  at  the  time  the  contract  is  made,  then  the 
market  value  of  the  gas  sold  pursuant  to  the  contract  shall  be  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  the  sale, 
subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  4(b)  above. 

(e)  Lessor  shall  be  paid  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  all  payments  and  other  benefits  made  under 
any  oil  or  gas  sales  contract  or  other  arrangement,  including  take-or-pay  payments  and  payments  received  in 
settlement  of  disputes;  provided  that  if  Lessor  receives  a  take-or-pay  payment  or  similar  payment  for  gas  that  has  not 
been  produced,  and  if  the  gas  is  subsequently  produced,  Lessor  will  receive  only  its  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market 
value  of  the  volume  of  gas  for  which  payment  has  not  already  been  made. 

(f)  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a 
particular  well  not  later  than  120  days  after  completion  of  the  well,  in  the  case  of  an  oil  well,  or  after  the  pipeline 
connection,  in  the  case  of  a  gas  well.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty 
on  production  by  the  last  day  of  the  second  month  after  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's 
royalty  will  bear  interest  at  the  maximum  lawful  rate  from  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay. 
Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  will  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  interest 
due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor.  The  royalty  payment  obligations  under 
this  Lease  shall  not  be  affected  by  any  division  order  or  the  provisions  of  the  Section  91.402  of  the  Texas  Natural 
Resources  Code  or  any  similar  statute. 

(g)  As  used  in  this  Lease,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or 
other  entity  mat  owns  more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns 
more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other 
entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interests  of  both  Lessee  and 
the  other  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  persons  or  group 
of  persons. 

(h)  The  receipt  by  Lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production 
for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee  will 
at  alt  times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other 
business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  the  Land  or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the 
Land,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together 
with  interest  if  not  timely  paid. 

5.  Shut-in  Royalty.  While  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  Lease  or  on  lands  pooled  with  the  Land 
capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being  sold,  at  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term  or  any  time 
thereafter,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  in  advance  an  annual  shut-in  royalty  of  $25  per  net  mineral  acre.  Payment 
with  respect  to  a  well  will  be  due  within  90  days  after  the  well  is  shut-in.  While  shut-in  royalty  payments  are  timely 
and  properly  paid,  this  Lease  will  be  held  as  a  producing  lease.  The  right  of  Lessee  to  maintain  this  Lease  in  force 
by  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalty  is  limited  to  two  consecutive  years  or  three  years  in  the  aggregate.  The  obligation 
of  Lessee  to  pay  shut-in  royalty  is  a  condition  and  not  a  covenant.  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty  under  this 
paragraph  may  be  made  by  the  check  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto  on  or  before  the 
due  date. 

6.  Continuous  Development,  (a)  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil  or  gas  is  not  being 
produced  from  the  Land,  but  Lessee  has  commenced  the  drilling  of  a  well  on  the  Land,  the  Lease  will  not  terminate 
but  will  remain  in  effect  for  so  long  thereafter  as  operations  are  carried  out  with  due  diligence  with  no  cessation  of 
more  than  90  days,  and  if  the  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  the  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  as 
otherwise  provided  herein.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations"  means  operations  for  an}'  of  the 
following:  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back,  or  repairing  of  a  well  in 
search  for  or  in  the  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas. 

(b)  If  this  Lease  is  maintained  beyond  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  by  production  or 
otherwise,  it  will  remain  in  force  as  to  all  acreage  and  depths  as  long  as  there  is  no  lapse  of  more  than  90  days 
between  the  completion  of  one  well  and  the  commencement  of  the  actual  drilling  of  another  well.  The 
commencement  of  actual  drilling  means  the  penetration  of  the  surface  with  a  drilling  rig  capable  of  drilling  to  the 
anticipated  total  depth  of  the  well.  After  a  well  is  commenced,  drilling  operations  must  continue  in  a  good  and 
workmanlike  manner  in  a  good  faith  effort  to  reach  the  anticipated  total  depth  with  no  cessation  of  operations  for 
more  than  60  consecutive  days.  A  well  will  be  deemed  to  have  been  completed  on  the  date  of  the  release  of  the 
drilling  rig  from  the  drillsite  and  any  completion  operations  cease.  The  permitted  time  between  wells  shall  be 
cumulative  so  that  if  a  well  is  commenced  prior  to  the  date  it  is  required  to  be  commenced,  the  number  of  days  prior 
to  the  date  on  which  the  well  should  have  been  commenced  shall  be  added  to  the  time  permitted  for  the  next  well. 

(c)  If  at  any  time  the  maximum  time  for  the  commencement  of  the  actual  drilling  of  a  well 
expires  without  the  commencement  of  the  well,  or  upon  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  if  the  Lease  is  not 
maintained  by  continuous  drilling,  this  Lease  will  terminate  except  as  to  the  Retained  Tract  (defined  below) 
surrounding  any  well  that  is  then  producing  in  paying  quantities  or  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  by 
virtue  of  payment  of  shut-in  royalties,  and  as  to  each  Retained  Tract,  the  Lease  will  then  terminate  as  to  all  depths 


100  feet  below  the  Barnett  Shale  Formation  on  the  Retained  Tract.  The  Lease  will  be  treated  as  a  separate  lease 
with  respect  to  each  Retained  Tract  and  will  continue  so  long  as  production  in  paying  quantities  continues  from  the 
tract.  If  production  from  a  Retained  Tract  ceases  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  will  terminate  as  to  that  tract  unless 
Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  on  the  tract  within  60  days  after  the  cessation  of  production, 
in  which  case  the  Lease  as  to  that  tract  will  continue  in  force  as  long  as  the  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no 
cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  production,  so  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production 
from  the  tract. 

(d)  The  land  assigned  to  a  well  or  wells  for  the  purposes  of  this  section  is  referred  to  as  a 
"Retained  Tract."  A  Retained  Tract  for  a  horizontal  well  may  not  exceed  320  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  10%.  A  Retained  Tract  for  a  vertical  well  producing  from  the  Barnett  Shale  formation  may  not  exceed 
80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%. 

(e)  A  gas  well  that  becomes  an  oil  well  will  hold  only  the  acreage  permitted  for  an  oil  well, 
and  Lessee  must  file  a  redesignation  of  the  Retained  Tract  (containing  a  metes  and  bounds  description  prepared  by  a 
professional  surveyor  and  specifying  the  retained  depths  thereunder)  in  the  Real  Property  Records  of  the  county 
where  the  Land  is  located.  If  Lessee  fails  to  file  timely  a  document  required  by  this  paragraph  after  Lessor  has 
provided  30  days  prior  written  notice,  then  Lessor  may  do  so,  and  the  filing  will  bind  Lessee. 

(f)  Lessee  shall  drill  as  many  horizontal  wells  from  each  drillsite  as  is  reasonably  practicable 
in  accordance  with  good  oilfield  practices  and  taking  into  account  all  geological  and  geophysical  information  known 
to  Lessee.  Each  drillsite  should  each  be  located  in  such  a  manner  as  to  facilitate  the  drilling  of  as  many  wells  as 
possible  from  such  drillsite  in  order  to  minimize  the  number  of  drillsites  on  lands  pooled  herewith. 

7.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  the  Land  with  contiguous  acreage  to  form  a  pooled 
unit  for  the  production  of  oil  and  gas  or  either  of  them.  The  acreage  in  a  pooled  unit  may  not  exceed  the  amount  that 
would  be  permitted  for  a  Retained  Tract  composed  of  acreage  lying  entirely  within  the  Land  or  lands  pooled 
therewith.  A  pooled  unit  for  a  horizontal  well  shall  be  configured  so  that  the  percentage  of  the  Land  that  is  included 
in  the  unit  is  not  less  than  the  percentage  of  that  part  of  the  horizontal  drainhole  that  is  located  under  the  Land  and  in 
the  producing  formation.  The  unit  will  become  effective  when  Lessee  files  in  the  Real  Property  Records  of  the 
county  where  the  Land  is  located  a  document  describing  the  pooled  acreage  and  depths  for  the  pooled  unit.  Lessee 
may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling  option  before  or  after  commencing  operations.  Operations  for  drilling  on  or 
production  of  oi]  or  gas  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  that  includes  land  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be  considered 
as  operations  on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  the  portion  of  the  Land  included  in  the  pooled  unit.  That  part  of  the 
Land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  will  be  considered  to  be  a  Retained  Tract,  and  the  provisions  of  this  Lease  that 
provide  for  termination  of  the  Lease  insofar  as  the  Lease  covers  depths  100  feet  below  the  base  of  the  Barnett  Shale 
formation  and  other  provisions  relating  to  Retained  Tracts  shall  apply.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  Land  included 
in  the  unit  that  prorated  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from  the  pooled  unit  that  the  number 
of  mineral  acres  of  the  Land  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  mineral  acres  included  in  the  unit. 
Royalties  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  production  allocated  to  the  Land.  No  part  of  the  Land  may  be  included 
in  a  pooled  unit  unless  all  of  the  Land  that  is  not  then  included  in  a  Retained  Tract  for  producing  well  is  included  in 
the  unit. 

8.  Offset  Wells.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  an  "offsetting  well"  is  a  well  that  is  producing  oil  or  gas 
from  adjacent  or  nearby  land  and  is  draining  the  Land.  If  an  offsetting  well  is  completed,  Lessee  must,  within  120 
days  after  the  date  of  first  sales  from  the  offsetting  well,  commence  operations  for  the  drilling  of  an  offset  well  on 
the  Land  and  must  diligently  pursue  those  operations  to  the  horizon  in  which  the  offsetting  well  is  producing,  or  at 
the  option  of  Lessee:  (i)  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  a  release  in  recordable  form  of  the  acreage  nearest  to  the 
offsetting  well;  or  (ii)  pay  Lessor  a  monthly  royalty  equal  to  the  royalty  that  would  be  payable  under  this  Lease  if  the 
production  from  the  offsetting  well  had  come  from  the  Land.  In  the  event  acreage  is  released  pursuant  to  (i)  above, 
the  release  will  cover  a  tract  of  a  size  and  shape  that  will  permit  the  drilling  of  a  well  to  the  producing  formation  and 
the  creation  of  a  proration  unit  surrounding  the  well  in  compliance  with  the  field  rules  for  the  field  in  which  the 
offsetting  well  is  located,  but  if  there  are  no  field  rules,  in  compliance  with  the  statewide  rules  of  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas.  A  well  producing  from  within  467  feet  of  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith  will  be 
conclusively  presumed  to  be  draining  the  Land. 

9.  Secondary  Recovery.  Lessee  will  not  implement  any  repressuring,  pressure  maintenance, 
recycling,  or  secondary  recovery  operations  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor. 

10.  SURFACE  OPERATIONS.  NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  CONTAINED  HEREIN 
TO  THE  CONTRARY,  LESSEE  HEREBY  WAIVES  AND  RELEASES  ALL  SURFACE  RIGHTS  OF 
EVERY  KIND  AND  NATURE  ACQUIRED  UNDER  THIS  LEASE,  IF  ANY.  ACCORDINGLY,  WITHOUT 
LESSOR'S  PRIOR  WRITTEN  CONSENT  (WHICH  MAY  BE  GRANTED  OR  WITHHELD  IN  LESSOR'S 
SOLE  AND  ABSOLUTE  DISCRETION),  LESSEE  SHALL  NOT  (I)  CONDUCT  ANY  SURFACE 
OPERATIONS  WHATSOEVER  UPON  THE  LAND,  (II)  PLACE  ANY  PERSONAL  PROPERTY, 
FIXTURES  OR  EQUIPMENT  UPON  THE  LAND,  OR  (HI)  ENTER  UPON  THE  LAND  FOR  ANY 
REASON;  PROVIDED;  HOWEVER,  THAT  THIS  LIMITATION  SHALL  NOT  AFFECT  THE  RIGHT  OF 
LESSEE  OR  ITS  SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS  TO  UTILIZE  THE  SUBSURFACE  OF  THE  LAND  OR 
ENGAGE  IN  DIRECTIONAL  OR  HORIZONTAL  DRILLING  ACTIVITY  WHICH  COMES  UNDER  THE 
LAND  AND/OR  FROM  POOLING  IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  THIS  LEASE,  AS  LONG  AS  SAID 
DRILLING  ACTIVITY  IS  AT  A  DEPTH  SO  AS  TO  NOT  INTERFERE  WITH  OR  IN  ANY  WAY  EFFECT 
THE  PRESENT  OR  FUTURE  USE  OF  THE  SURFACE  OF  THE  LAND  FOR  COMMERCIAL  OR 
RESIDENTIAL  USE,  AND  IN  NO  EVENT  MAY  THE  MINING  OR  DRILLING  ACTIVITY  PENETRATE 
THE  LAND  AT  A  DEPTH  OF  LESS  THAN  500  FEET  BELOW  THE  SURFACE.  FURTHER,  LESSEE 
SHALL  DRILL  NO  WELL  WITHIN  600  FEET  OF  THE  LAND. 

11.  Assignments.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in 
whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  Lessee  shall  notify  Lessor  of  any  assignment  or  sublease  of  this 
Lease,  with  the  exception  of  assignments  being  made  to  Chesapeake  Exploration,  LLC,  its  officers,  directors,  and/or 


subsidiaries  of  Lessee,  and  Lessee  and  Lessee's  assignees  or  sublessee's  of  an  interest  in  this  Lease  shall  be  joint  and 
severally  liable  for  all  of  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease. 

12.  Force  Majeure.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure  from  complying  with 
any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease  (other  than  a  requirement  to  pay  money),  from  conducting  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  Land,  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas,  then  while  so  prevented,  that  covenant  will  be 
suspended;  Lessee  will  not  be  liable  for  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  this  Lease  will  be  extended  so  long 
as  Lessee  is  prevented  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  the 
Land;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  will  not  be  counted  against  Lessee.  "Force  Majeure"  means  any 
Act  of  God,  riot,  war,  strike,  insurrection,  any  federal  or  state  law,  or  any  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental 
authority,  or  other  similar  cause  (other  than  financial  reasons).  This  paragraph  is,  however,  in  all  things  subject  to 
the  limitations  of  time  during  which  this  Lease  may  be  continued  in  force  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalties. 

13.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By 
acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has 
conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title 
failures.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  payable 
hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  on 
the  land,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  Lessee  will  have  the  option  of  applying  the  royalties  accruing  to  Lessor 
toward  payment  of  it.  Lessee  shall  not  require  a  "subordination"  or  other  mortgage  company  approval  or  agreement 
before  paying  royalties  to  Lessor  from  a  well,  if  the  Land  is  not  located  directly  above  the  actual  wellbore. 

14.  Notices.  All  notices  will  be  deemed  given  and  reports  will  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent  by 
certified  letter,  return  receipt  requested,  properly  addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States  Postal  Service, 
postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  and  Lessee  at  the  addresses  shown  above.  Either  party  may  designate  a  new  address  by 
written  notice  to  the  other  party. 

15.  Attorney's  Fees.  Tn  the  event  that  Lessor  or  Lessee  is  required  to  employ  legal  counsel  for  the 
enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  Lease  and  prevails,  the  prevailing  party  will  be  entitled  to  recover  from  the 
other  party  the  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  by  said  party. 

16.  Insurance.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain  insurance 
covering  all  of  its  activities  and  operations  hereunder,  including  any  work  performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors, 
subcontractors,  and  others.  The  policies  shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability,  for  bodily  injury 
and  property  damage,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the  environment, 
including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean  up  and  surface  remediation.  The  coverage  shall  be  in  the  minimum  amount 
of  $5,000,000. 

17.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND 
LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  EMPLOYEES,  TRUSTEES,  VOLUNTEERS,  AGENTS,  SUCCESSORS,  AND 
ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF 
ANY  NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY, 
INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT 
COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  ACTIVITIES  AND  OPERATIONS  ON  THE  LAND  OR  LANDS  POOLED 
THEREWITH  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND,  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF 
ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM 
"LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY 
OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT 
CONTRACTORS.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LAND"  INCLUDES  THE  LAND 
COVERED  BY  THIS  LEASE  OR  ANY  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH.  LESSEE'S  INDEMNITY 
OBLIGATIONS  SURVIVE  THE  TERMINATION  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

18.  Miscellaneous  Provisions. 

(a)  In  the  event  this  Lease  terminates  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land,  Lessee  shall, 
within  60  days  thereafter,  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  covering  all  of  the  Land  or  that  portion  of 
the  Land  as  to  which  this  Lease  terminated. 


(b)  Nothing  in  this  Lease  negates  the  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee  under 
applicable  law. 

(c)  Lessee  will  conduct  all  operations  hereunder  in  compliance  with  the  rules  of  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas  and  federal  and  state  environmental  laws  and  regulations  and  municipal  ordinances. 

(d)  The  term  "production"  means  production  in  paying  quantities. 

(e)  Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  this  Lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to  be 
considered  in  the  interpretation  or  construction  of  this  Lease. 

(f)  The  execution  or  ratification  by  Lessor  of  any  division  order,  gas  contract,  or  any  other 
document  will  not  alter  any  provision  of  this  Lease  unless  the  intent  to  do  so  is  expressly  stated  in  the 
document. 

(g)  Under  no  circumstances  may  Lessee,  its  agents,  employees,  or  contractors  bring  firearms 
or  dogs  or  other  animals  on  the  Land  or  hunt  or  fish  on  the  Land. 

(h)  Any  compressors  used  in  connection  with  this  Lease  or  lands  pooled  herewith  shall  not 
be  located  within  600  feet  of  the  Lands  and  shall  be  equipped  with  the  latest  technology  in  noise 


suppression  and  muffling  devices.  Every  five  years  Lessee  shall  be  required  to  install  quieter  compressors 
if  such  are  available  for  sale  and  distribution. 


(i)  Lessor  may  not  own  ail  of  the  minerals  underlying  the  Land.  Lessee  agrees  that  it  will 
not  drill,  conduct  operations  or  participate  in  drilling  or  operations  on  the  Land  which  are  not  in  compliance 
with  the  terms  and  requirements  of  this  Lease  by  claiming  authority  under  the  Lease  or  leases  covering  the 
outstanding  interest. 

(j)  Lessee,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  waives  any  right  of  eminent 
domain  possessed  by  Lessee  or  any  Affiliate  of  Lessee  to  acquire  any  surface  right  of  way  or  surface 
easement  for  the  transportation  of  gas,  oil  or  any  other  substance. 

(k)  Jurisdiction  and  venue  for  any  legal  dispute  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  related  in  any 
way  to  this  lease  shall  be  in  the  court(s)  of  competent  jurisdiction  located  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

(1)  This  Lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns. 

(m)  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  by  its  acceptance  of  this  lease,  hereby  agrees  to 
comply  with  all  applicable  laws,  rules  and  regulations  and  hereby  assumes  full  responsibility  for,  and 
agrees  to  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless,  Lessor  from  and  against  any  loss,  liability,  claim,  fine, 
expense  cost  (including  reasonable  attorneys  fees  and  expenses)  and  cause  of  action  caused  by  or  arising 
out  of  the  violation  (or  defense  of  the  alleged  violation)  of  any  federal,  state  or  local  laws,  rules  or 
regulations  applicable  to  any  waste  material,  drilling  matter  fluid  or  any  hazardous  substances  released  or 
caused  to  be  released  by  Lessor  or  Lessee's  agents,  or  independent  contractors,  or  any  other  operations  on 
the  land  leased  hereunder  into  the  atmosphere  or  into  or  upon  the  land  or  any  water  course  or  body  of 
water,  including  ground  water,  or  subsurface  water.  Additionally,  upon  receiving  any  notice  regarding  any 
environmental,  pollution  or  contamination  problem  or  violation  of  any  law,  rule  or  regulation,  Lessee  will 
forward  a  copy  to  Lessor  by  certified  mail  within  thirty  (30)  days.  This  provision  and  its  indemnities  shall 
survive  the  termination  of  this  Lease,  and  shall  enure  to  the  successors,  heirs  and  assigns  of  Lessor  and 
Lessee. 

19.  Environmental  Safeguards.  Lessee  shall  employ  such  measures  as  will  reduce 
the  impact  of  its  operations  upon  improvements,  vegetation  and  habitat  on  the  Land.  Lessee  shall  use 
reasonable  care  and  safeguards  in  conducting  its  operations  to  prevent  contamination  or  pollution  from  any 
waste,  pollutant,  or  contaminant  to  any  environmental  medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater, 
sediments,  surface  or  subsurface  strata,  ambient  air,  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under  the 
Land.  Lessee  shall  remediate  any  condition  which  is  hazardous  to  humans  or  wildlife  resulting  from 
Lessee's  operations. 

20.  Groundwater  Protection.  Any  oil  or  gas  wells  drilled  by  Lessee  shall  be 
drilled  in  compliance  with  the  surface  casing  requirements  imposed  by  the  State  of  Texas  for  groundwater 
protection  and  Lessee  shall  install  such  surface  casing  in  the  required  manner  in  order  to  insure  the 
protection  of  all  fresh  water  bearing  formations  in  and  under  the  Land. 

21.  Option  to  Extend.  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option  to  extend  the  primary 
term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  two  (2)  years  from  the  expiration  of  the  original  primary  term  hereof. 
This  option  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  during  the  original  primary  term  by  paying  the  sum  of 
$15,500.00  per  acre  to  Lessor  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  in  the  depository  named  above  (which  bank  and  its 
successors  are  Lessor's  agents  and  shall  continue  as  the  depository  regardless  of  changes  in  ownership  of 
said  land).  This  payment  shall  be  based  upon  the  number  of  net  mineral  acres  then  covered  by  this  lease 
and  not  at  such  time  being  maintained  by  other  provisions  hereof.  This  payment  may  be  made  by  the  check 
or  draft  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  Lessor  or  to  said  bank  at  any  time  during  the  original  primary  term 
hereof.  If  such  bank  (or  any  successor  bank)  should  fail,  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  bank,  or  for 
any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment,  Lessee  shall  not  be  held  in  default  for  failure  to  make  such 
payment  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessor's  delivery  to  Lessee  of  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming 
another  bank  as  agent  to  receive  such  payment.  If,  at  the  time  this  payment  is  made,  various  parties  are 
entitled  to  specific  amounts  according  to  Lessee's  records;  this  payment  may  be  divided  between  said 
parties  and  paid  in  the  same  proportion.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided,  it  shall  be 
considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years. 


Executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


Lessor: 


[Signature]  -  ~~~ 


[Individual  Name/Title]    By:  Don  Fields 


Lessoxi-i  /  j  />     T  y 

[Signature]        <Jr\       //  <-f\l      ^  \j '  M 


(  i  '"'-^ 
[Individual  Name/Title]    By:  Shirley  Smith  Fields  


EXHIBIT  "A: 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  Oil,  Gas,  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  May  30,  2008  ,  between 

Axia  Land  Services,  LLC,  as  Lessee,  and      Don  Fields  and  Shirley  Smith  Fields    ,  as 
Lessor;  WITNESSETH: 


0.56      acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Lot     1 1C       ._Knapp  and  Delk  Addition_ ,  an  Addition  to 
the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388  -  47, 
Page    825        Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

And,  being  Lot    8R      .Knapp  and  Delk  Addition_ ,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388  -  168.  Page     86  Plat 
Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 


All" 'If/. 

d&fifat  AUSTON  MCCAIL  MALLORY 

i*.^^--." \  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 

\-i:f%Si?$  My  Commission  Expires 


September  07,  201 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 


CL\/ 


f>~\ 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


RETURN  TO: 

Axia  Land  Services,  LLC 

801  Cherry  Street,  Suite  3850,  Unit  39 

Pert  Worth,  TX  76102 


RETURN  " 
Axis  Lsr 

801  Che  350,  Un!l  39 

Fort  Wortu;  , 


AX1A  LAND  SERVICES  LLC 
801  CHERRY  ST  #3850  UNIT  39 


FT  WORTH  TX  76102 

Submitter:  AXIA  LAND  SERVICES,  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  ~  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$40.00 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


