Australian! MAUStralian Bureau of Statistics 


Statistics 


1344.8.55.002 - ABStract, Statistics News, Australian Capital Territory, April 
2010 


Previous ISSUE Released at 11:30 AM (CANBERRA TIME) 13/04/2010 


Summary 


Contents 


Statistics News, Australian Capital Territory 


CONTENTS 


The Director's cut 
Includes: Welcome to the first issue of ABStract for 2010 


ACT Government news and events 
Includes: 'Change your address' campaign brings extra revenue to the ACT 


2011 Census information 
Includes: Updates 


Business after Business 
Includes: Photos of the event 17 February 2010 


Australian Social Trends 
Includes: The New edition 


Changes to ABS Classification Standards 
Includes: Implementation phase of ANZSIC 2006 draws to close, Information on revision to ANZSCO, Review of 
the consumer price index (CPI), New Australian Statistical Geography Standard (ASGS) 


Net Overseas Migration 
Includes: Improvements to Preliminary Net Overseas Migration Estimation 


Labour Statistics 
Includes: Labour market 


NatStats conference 2010 
Includes: Measuring what counts 


ABS ACT statistical training program 
Includes: Develop your statistical skills 


How well do you know the Australian Capital Region 
Includes: Quiz questions 


How to subscribe 
Includes: Future releases, RSS feeds, bookmarks, ABS mobile 


Have your say 
Includes: Call for Feedback 


In this issue 


NOTES 


INQUIRIES 


For further information about these and related statistics, contact the National Information and Referral 
Service on 1300 135 070. 


The Director's cut 


> 
_ 
Pa 


=) THE DIRECTOR'S CUT 


WELCOME TO THE FIRST ISSUE OF ABSTRACT FOR 2010 
| hope everyone had an enjoyable festive season and a productive year so far. 
It's been a busy start to 2010 here in the ACT Office. 


We welcomed a number of much needed additions to the Office and also underwent a couple of internal re- 
shuffles. Of note is that Mariette O'Connell is now the acting Assistant Regional Director. Tim Power has 
moved into the role of Census Engagement Manager. Congratulations and good luck to Mariette and Tim in 
their new roles. There are also some new faces in our Census and Publication teams. 


The Canberra-Queanbeyan Statistical District has reached the population milestone of just over 400,000 
people. The Canberra-Queanbeyan Statistical District covers the areas of: 


= Canberra (351,900 people) 
=» Queanbeyan (40,700 people) 
= Palerang - Part A (10,600 people) 


It's full steam ahead with planning the 2011 Census here in the ACT Office. We are working closely with our 
NSW counterparts designing census collector workloads using mesh blocks. 


We have also been out and about promoting and raising awareness for the 2011 Census. Some of you may 
have seen the ABS stall at the Multicultural Festival earlier this year. We had prime position being near the 
belly dancing stage which attracted many visitors. We used this opportunity to give away 1000 Census 
showbags which were snapped up by enthusiastic kids eager for the ABS branded lollipops, yo-yos and 
water bottles. We also had some keen data-hungry patrons who queried the ABS data that was on the 
display banner and requested figures for their suburbs of interest. They were promptly shown how to extract 
the data they needed from the ABS website. Please see Census information for photos taken on the day. 


The ACT Office provided the venue for the February Chamber of Commerce "Business after Business" 
event. This well attended event brought together personalities from the Canberra small business community 
and as host, the ACT Office showcased the ABS Census products and services, in particular, the 
functionality of CData Online and Map Stats using local examples. Please see Business after Business for 
a selection of photos taken at this event. 


In February, we also released our quarterly indicators publication, In fACT, cat. no 1308.8 . Over recent 
issues we have included special articles about topical themes on the Australian capital Region as well as 


provide more detail and commentary on headline indicators. 


Finally, | am very pleased to announce that Ms Fiona Tearne has been outposted to the Chief Minister's 
Department. Working alongside the ACT Demographer, Ms Gemma Wood, Fiona is working hard on 
making sense of the myriad of data around the economic and fiscal implications of the population in the 
ACT with special consideration to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the ageing 
population. Fiona will also be assisting with the implemention of the ACT Information Development Plan, 
2008 - 12011, cat. no. 1344.8.55.003. An outposted officer is one of the best ways the ABS has to provide 
statistical support to State and Territory Government agencies. If you would like more information please 
contact me on act.office@abs.gov.au . 


We would welcome any feedback about this electronic ABStract. Please email us at act.office@abs.gov.au 
with any suggestions including contributions for future issues. 


Beidar Cho 


Acting ACT Regional Director 


ACT Government news and events 


ACT GOVERNMENT NEWS AND EVENTS 


Information in this section was contributed by the ACT Chief Minister's Department. 


"CHANGE YOUR ADDRESS' CAMPAIGN BRINGS EXTRA REVENUE TO THE ACT 


For the past three years the ACT Government has been encouraging people from interstate to change their 
Medicare address to the ACT. The purpose of the month long advertising campaign is to boost the amount 
of GST revenue received by the Territory. 


GST revenue to States and Territories is granted based on population statistics, with Medicare addresses 
used to help determine annual population counts. For every Canberran who does not change their 
Medicare address to the ACT, it is estimated that the Territory may potentially forego $2,500 in revenue. 


The campaign is conducted in partnership with SERVICE ONE Members Banking who sponsor a 
competition that provides the opportunity for entrants to win cash prizes if they change their Medicare 
address to the ACT. 


Traditionally the campaign has been promoted through local print, television and radio. This year it was 
successfully conducted on-line, using banner advertising on news websites that directed people to a 
dedicated 'ChangeandWin' site. The website encouraged people to refer the competition to three friends 
and have a chance to win $100 instantly, or to change their own address details with Medicare and enter 
the competition for an opportunity to win a major prize of $5,000. 


Statistics provided by Medicare indicated a significant increase in the number of people who changed their 
address during the month when the campaign is conducted. Over 1700 people having changed their 
address throughout the three campaigns conducted to date. It is estimated that this has resulted in an extra 
$4.25 million in GST funding for the ACT community. 

The campaign will be conducted again in October this year. 


For more information please contact Bruce Thompson on (02) 6207 6457). 


2011 Census information 


2011 CENSUS INFORMATION 


UPDATES 


In the ACT Regional Office (as with the rest of the ABS states and territories), preparations are currently 
underway for the 2011 Census. In February we appeared at the Multicultural Festival to display statistics 
relating to the cultural and linguistically diverse (CALD) communities. Festival goers had the opportunity to 
visit the ABS marquee, and talk to staff about navigating the ABS website and finding the information they 
wanted. 


Photos of Multicultural Festival 


64.5% 


of Canberrans 
have a 
non- Australian 


ancestry, 
» 3a 


of Canberrans 
were born overseas, 


of Canberrans 

~ speak a languag 
other than English ~ 
at home. 


One of the main areas of interest was Census and how to retrieve the relevant information. Information 
using Statistics from Census Tables are categorised according to several different variables that highlight 
aspects of CALD. The main categories these tables are comprised from are: 


= Country of birth (mother, father and person) 
Ancestry 

Australian citizenship 

Language spoken at home 

Proficiency in spoken English 

Year of arrival in Australia. 


The ABS offers 5 free products that contain Census data. These are: 


= QuickStats 


MapStats 

Census Tables 
Community Profiles 
CDATA Online. 


Below is a section of a table that can be found in CDATA Online. 


COUNTRY OF BIRTH FOR USUAL RESIDENTS OF THE ACT 


Country of birth Males 


Females Persons 
England 6 532 6 464 12 996 
New Zealand 1 997 1919 3 916 
China (excluding Taiwan Province and SARs) (a) 1594 1951 3545 
India 1 446 1 290 2 736 
Viet Nam 1 108 1 263 2371 
Germany 1122 1 245 2 367 
Scotland 1168 1125 2 293 
Italy 1 160 1041 2 201 
United States of America 956 1 030 1 986 
Malaysia 848 971 1819 
Australia 116 576 119 883 236 459 
Not stated 8 973 8 242 17 215 
Other(b) 16 173 17 957 34 130 
Total 159 653 164 381 


324 034 


(a) Special Administrative Regions. 
(b) Includes all other countries and supplementary codes (exchanging not stated). 
Source: CDATA online. 


As you can see, ‘Not stated’ answers are a big issue in the Census. This is why the ACT Regional office is 


putting so much effort into engagement for the 2011 Census. Our aim is to reduce those ‘Not stated’ 


answers to a minimum to provide our ACT clients with the most accurate statistics. We are available to 
come and talk to your community about any concerns you may have in providing information for Census or 


surveys. 


See you out there soon! 


Business after Business 


til 
BUSINESS AFTER BUSINESS 


PHOTOS OF THE EVENT 17 FEBRUARY 2010 


») 


Business4fterBusiness. gif 


Photos provided by Jodi Shepherd, Hot Shots Photography 


Australian Social Trends 


hi AUSTRALIAN SOCIAL TRENDS 


THE NEW EDITION 

The ABS released the latest edition of Australian Social Trends (cat. no. 4102.0) on 16 March 2010. The 
publication draws together a wide range of statistics from the ABS and other official sources to provide a 
picture of Australian society and how it is changing over time. 

The latest edition features five articles: 

The labour market during recent economic downturns 

The recent global financial crisis triggered a period of slowing economic growth in Australia. This article will 
look at how the labour market was affected during this time and compare this to previous economic 
downturns. 

Health and socioeconomic disadvantage 

Previous analysis has shown that disadvantaged Australians have higher levels of disease risk factors and 
lower use of preventative health services than those who experience socioeconomic advantage. This article 
examines differences in indicators of health among Australians according to the relative level of 
socioeconomic disadvantage of where they live. 

Are young people learning or earning? 

Increasing education participation and improving transition to work outcomes for young Australians are key 
objectives of the Council of Australian Governments 2009 National Partnership Agreement on Youth 
Attainment. This article looks at the levels of engagement of young people in study and work including the 
transitions of recent school leavers. 

Income support among people of working age 

In contrast to earlier decades, the period since 1996 has seen a fall in the number of working age people 
receiving income support. This article examines the changes that have driven the decline and profiles the 
recipients of income support. 

Repeat imprisonment 

The imprisonment rate has increased steadily over the last decade. This article looks at prisoners who have 
been released from prison and then reimprisoned within 10 years of their release. 


The publication shows that: 


In the ACT, 12% of young people aged 15-24 years were not fully engaged (in either study or work). This 
was well below the national average of 19%. 


Within 10 years of their release, 39% of prisoners in NSW/ACT were reimprisoned, This was one of the 
highest rates in Australia and equal to the national average of 39%. 


Changes to ABS Classification Standards 


a /Z 


CHANGES TO ABS CLASSIFICATION STANDARDS 


IMPLEMENTATION PHASE OF ANZSIC 2006 DRAWS TO CLOSE 


Over the last few years, you may have noticed industry classifications changing though various Australian 
Bureau of Statistics (ABS) publications. The Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification 
(ANZSIC) 2006 Implementation Program which started in 2004 draws to a close. A vast number of 
resources across the ABS have been involved in this program and a great deal of publications have been 
affected by this implementation process. 


A large number of ABS collections have moved to the new industry classification and have either been 
released or are due to be released on the new basis by the end of 2010. All collection areas affected have 
released their own information papers providing users of ABS industry-based statistics with an outline of the 
methodology used for the implementation process of the new ANZSIC 2006 classification relevant to their 
particular collections. For more information on the collections that have implemented the new industry 


1295.0.55.001). 


INFORMATION ON REVISION TO ANZSCO 


ANZSCO - Australian and New Zealand Standard Classification of Occupations, First Edition, Revision 1 
(cat. no. 1220.0), released in June 2009, is the first update of this classification which was initially released 
September 2006. Revision 1 includes minor changes to the classification structure and definitional changes 
for some occupations. 


This product comprises an explanation of the conceptual basis of the classification, the classification 
structure and definitions for all levels of the classification (major, sub-major, minor and unit groups and 
occupations). The primary purpose of this product is to aid in the interpretation of ABS and Statistics New 
Zealand occupation statistics classified to ANZSCO. 


For information about the revision refer to Information Paper: ANZSCO -- Australian and New Zealand 


REVIEW OF THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (CPI) 


The ABS review of the CPI is underway. The CPI is a main economic indicator, measuring inflation faced by 
Australian households for goods and services. The review is focusing on the topics of: the principal purpose 
of the CPI; the compilation frequency of the CPI; an evaluation of the deposit and loan facilities index; 
maintaining the relevance of the CPI; commodity classification; analytical series; and other issues. 


As part of the review process, the ABS has been consulting widely. Thank you to all those who attended the 
public forum held in Canberra on 12 March 2010, and/or provided a written submission. 


For more information on the nature and content of the review and its progress, please refer to Issues to be 
considered during the 16th Series Australian Consumer Price Index Review, Dec 2009 (cat. no. 6468.0). 


NEW AUSTRALIAN STATISTICAL GEOGRAPHY STANDARD (ASGS) 


On 1 July 2011 the ABS will replace the current Australian Standard Geographical Classification (ASGC) 
with the new Australian Statistical Geography Standard (ASGS). The ASGS will be used for the 

2011 Census of Population and Housing. The current ABS geography structure such as Collection Districts 
(CDs), Statistical Local Areas (SLAs), Statistical Subdivisions (SSDs) and Statistical Divisions (SDs) will be 
replaced by mesh blocks and Statistical Area Levels 1 to 4. 


Mesh blocks are the smallest geographical region and are the building blocks for the larger regions of the 
ASGS. Only limited Census data, total population and dwelling counts will be released at the mesh block 
level. 


Statistical Area Level 1s (SA1s) will be the smallest region for which a wide range of Census data will be 
released, and will have an average population of about 400. 


Statistical Area Level 2s (SA2s) will have an average population of 10,000 and will be built from SA1s. 


These will be the regions that the majority of sub-state intercensal data, such as estimated resident 
population, will be released. 


Statistical Area Level 3s (SA3s) will be built from SA2s and will represent functional areas of regional cities 
and large urban transport and service hubs. 


Statistical Area Level 4s (SA4s) will be built from SA3s and used for the release of labour force statistics. 


Other ABS structures (e.g. Remoteness) and non-ABS structures (e.g. Local Government Areas) will also 
form part of the ASGS. 


Further information about the ASGS can be found in the Information Paper: Outcome from The Review of 
the Australian Standard Geographical Classification, 2008 (cat. no. 1216.0.55.002). 


Net Overseas Migration 


Ri NET OVERSEAS MIGRATION 


IMPROVEMENTS TO PRELIMINARY NET OVERSEAS MIGRATION ESTIMATION 


In 2007 the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) introduced improved methods for calculating net overseas 
migration (NOM). It has been used in calculating Australia's official estimated resident population (ERP) 
since September quarter 2006. Experience in using the new NOM methodology, as well as the subsequent 
availability of new information, has indicated that it is now possible to make further improvements to the 
preliminary estimates. 


Preliminary NOM data from these improvements was published for the first time on 25 March 2010 in 
Australian Demographic Statistics, September Quarter 2009 (cat. no. 3101.0). For all quarters of 2008-09 
the already published preliminary NOM estimates were replaced with new preliminary NOM estimates 
based on these improvements. September quarter 2009 preliminary NOM estimates have been based on 
these improvements and published for the first time. 


Final NOM estimates for 2007-08 were also released on 25 March 2010 in Australian Demographic 
Statistics, September Quarter 2009 (cat. no. 3101.0). 


An Information Paper: Improving Net Overseas Migration Estimation (cat. no. 3412.0.55.001) was released 
on 12 March 2010. It reports on the improvements made by the ABS to the quality of Australia's NOM 
estimation. It discusses changes made to the methodology and the examination of the source data used to 
estimate NOM. 


New Data Available 
Interstate migration data 


A time series of interstate migration data from 2002 onwards is available electronically as a data cube (in 
Supertable format) from the Downloads tab of Migration Australia, 2007-08 (cat. no. 3412.0) on the ABS 
website. As new data is now available this was updated for the financial year 2008-09 and released on the 
25 March 2010. 


Net overseas migration data 


A time series of NOM data from 2004 onwards, based on the improved methodology, is available 
electronically as a data cube (in Supertable format) from the Downloads tab of Migration Australia, 2007-08 
(cat. no. 3412.0) on the ABS website. As new data is now available this was revised with final data for the 
financial year 2007-08 and updated with preliminary data for the financial year 2008-09 and released on the 
25 March 2010. 


Labour Statistics 


FS LABOUR STATISTICS 


LABOUR MARKET 


Labour Statistics News (cat. no. 6106.0) is published twice yearly by the Labour Market Statistics National 
Statistical Centre (NSC). It provides information about the latest in labour market statistics including: 
outlining recent developments and survey reviews; informing and seeking feedback on current projects; 
providing analysis and articles on labour-related issues; providing information on how to find, use and 
interpret ABS labour market statistics and useful contacts within the labour market area of the ABS; 
highlighting significant releases of ABS labour market data or analysis; and advertising upcoming statistical 
training in labour market statistics. 


Some key recent developments highlighted in the February 2010 Labour Statistics News include: 


= the re-instatement of the full Labour Force Survey sample (fully implemented from December 2009) 
and the Job Vacancy Survey (in November 2009); 

= the release of the 2008 Forms of Employment Survey (FOES) Confidentialised Unit Record File 
(CURF) - which includes the new Independent Contractor and Labour Hire modules; and 

= the release of the Labour Force Survey Standard Products and Data Item Guide. 


There are also a range of projects and other developments aimed at improving the range and/or usefulness 
of labour market statistics which are in progress, or about to commence, including: 


investigations into maximising the longitudinal nature of the Labour Force Survey through matching 
data across survey months; 

investigations into options for linked employer-employee data; 

upcoming release of additional aggregate monthly hours worked data; 

review of the Job Search Experience survey; 

review of measures of job change; and 

investigation into the development of temporary work measures. 


Labour Statistics News aims to reach a wide range of users to inform and engage with the community on 
labour market issues and statistical developments. 


NatStats conference 2010 


a NATSTATS CONFERENCE 2010 


MEASURING WHAT COUNTS 


Natstats logo 


NatStats 2010 Conievence 


15-17 September 2010 Darling Harbour Sydney 


The Australian Bureau of Statistics will be hosting another NatStats conference at the Sydney Convention 
and Exhibition Centre, Darling Harbour on 15 - 17 September 2010. 


NatStats 2010 will bring together an array of leaders and high profile commentators, researchers and policy 
makers from all levels of government, media, academia, community and business. NatStats was initiated to 
assist in the development of a collaborative approach to national statistics. It focuses on various issues 
surrounding qualitative and quantitative research, which have been highlighted by key government 
initiatives. 


The conference will build on the success of the first NatStats conference held in 2008, where around 480 
delegates attended. A major outcome of the 2008 conference was the tabling of a statistical declaration to 
guide the development of a national statistics strategy for Australia in the 21st century. 


The overall theme for the conference is "Measuring what counts: economic development, wellbeing and 
progress in 21st century Australia." The conference will be opened officially on 16th September with a 
plenary address by Dr Ken Henry and will focus on four main themes: 


1. Challenges facing Australian Society: Issues, Policy and Information 
2. Australia in the Global Economy. Do we measure up? 

3. Improving Australian's Wellbeing 

4. Measuring Progress: From Theory to Practice. 


NatStats 2010 will aim to build on the enthusiasm and passion generated by delegates at NatStats 08 and 
will offer delegates an opportunity to: 


= Explore the impact of expected demographic, environmental and global economic change and their 
implications for governance, policy, productivity and the well-being of Australia's urban and rural 
communities. 

= Identify the improvements needed in our national statistical system to understand and respond to 
these challenges. 

= Identify improvements needed in the current statistical frameworks for measuring progress and 
development to ensure Australians’ wellbeing. 


An exciting program is being developed and will address a range of issues regarding national statistics. If 
you would like to hear more about NatStats 2010 Conference, or have any suggestions, please contact 
Annette Hants on (02) 6252 6936 or email natstats@nss.gov.au. 


ABS ACT statistical training program 


or ABS ACT STATISTICAL TRAINING PROGRAM 


DEVELOP YOUR STATISTICAL SKILLS 


Each office of the ABS offers practical, informative and relevant training to help you develop your statistical 
skills. These courses may also be tailored to suit your particular needs or additional programs can be 
developed as required for presentations at your own locality. The next scheduled courses for the ACT are: 


Principles of Questionnaire Design 
Turning _Data Into Information 
Understanding Demographic Data 
Introduction to Labour Statistics 
Basic Survey Design 
Making_Quality Informed Decisions 


Principles of Questionnaire Design 


Overview: A well designed questionnaire is vital for collecting high quality data. The aim of this two-day 
course is to provide participants with an awareness and understanding of questionnaire design principles. 
The course content covers: 


Context of questionnaire design 

Defining survey objectives 

Developing content based on survey objectives 
Determining most appropriate collection methodology 
Understanding how respondents answer questions 
Developing questionnaire wording 

Ordering of questions 

Format and layout 

Accompanying information 

Testing questionnaires 

Evaluating questionnaires 


Is this course for me? This course is designed for people who will be involved in designing and conducting 
a survey and wish to gain an understanding of how to design a questionnaire that will collect data 
accurately. 


Date: 5 May 2010 


Cost: $750 (inc. GST) per person 


Analysing Survey Data Made Simple 


Overview: This two-day computer-based course develops practical skills in basic statistical and graphical 
data analysis techniques using Microsoft Excel. It aims to equip participants with the skills to: 


identify the steps involved in data analysis; 

summarise and display survey data in graphical and tabular form; 
find simple relationships in survey data; and 

test for statistically significant differences between survey results. 


Is this course for me? This course is designed for people with limited training and exposure to statistical 
analysis who need to learn how to analyse and describe data that have been collected in surveys. A 
mathematical background is beneficial but not essential. Previous experience using spreadsheets is 
recommended. 


Dates: 18 May 2010 and 15 June 2010 


Cost: $750 (inc. GST) per person 


Turning Data Into Information 


Overview: This two-day course is intended to provide skills in interpreting, communicating and displaying 
data clearly and effectively. Participants will gain skills in transforming data into meaningful written 
information, particularly in respect to social policy issues. At the completion of this course participants will 
be able to: 


understand how the collection and compilation of data affects their usefulness, quality and relevance; 
communicate results and prepare written reports; 

construct good tables and graphs; and 

recognise possible pitfalls in analysis. 


Is this course for me? This course will be most beneficial to people who need to use data to produce reports 
or social commentary, or people who are involved with monitoring and evaluation in a social context. 


Date: 2 June 2010 


Cost: $750 (inc. GST) per person 


Understanding Demographic Data 

Overview: This 1 day course provides an understanding of the demographic data framework and the 
processes which shape the population and includes practical exercises in the analysis of demographic data. 
At the completion of this course participants will have an: 


= Understanding of the demographic data framework 
= Understanding of processes which shape the population 
= Basic ability to analyse demographic data 


Is this course for me? This course would be useful for people who use and/or need to understand 
demographic data. 


Date: 8 June 2010 


Cost:$450 (inc. GST) 


Introduction to Labour Statistics 
Overview: This 1 day course provides an overview of the range of concepts and issues associated with 
ABS labour statistics. It explores the data produced by both household and employer based collections, and 
highlights the range of products available to access labour-related data. At the completion of this course 
participants will have an: 

= Understanding of key labour concepts and issues 

=» Awareness of available ABS labour-related data and products 
Is this course for me? This course would be useful for people who use and/or need to understand ABS 
labour statistics. 
Date: 16 June 2010 
Cost: $450 (inc. GST) 


Basic Survey Design 


Overview: The aim of this 2 day course is to give a broad overview of all facets of survey development. The 


course covers developing survey objectives, advantages and disadvantages of various collection 
methodologies, questionnaire development, data processing and reporting of results. At the completion of 
this course participants will have the: 


= Ability to formulate survey objectives and prepare project briefs 

= Appreciation of issues and limitations associated with survey management and design 
= Identification of appropriate survey techniques for data collection 

= Understanding of the entire survey process 


Is this course for me? This course would be useful for people who will be involved in conducting a sample 
survey, or people who would like to gain a broad understanding of the issues associated with the survey 
process. 

Date: 25 June 2010 


Cost: $750 (inc. GST) per person 


Making Quality Informed Decisions 
Overview: Need to introduce some quality into your statistical decision making? 


This one-day course introduces the concept of ‘holistic quality’ through the use of a data quality framework. 
The framework ensures that users of statistics are able to assess whether the statistics are fit for their 
intended use. This course will provide participants with an increased understanding of: 


= how to set up a quality framework; 

= risk management in making statistical decisions; 

=» how to assess datasets in the context of data need; and 

= using information on data quality to make better informed decisions. 


Is this course for me? This course would be useful for anyone who uses statistics in decision making, or is 
involved in producing statistics and wants to ensure that statistics are used appropriately. 


Date: 21 July 2010 
Cost: $450 (inc. GST) per person 


Further details of training courses and registrations forms can be found on the ABS Training home page. 


How well do you know the Australian Capital Region 


by 
“ HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW THE AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL REGION? 


QUIZ QUESTIONS 

1. What does the ACR stand for? 

2. Who is best remembered as the originator of the "Federation" strain of wheat? 
3. What architect firm won the competition to design Parliament House? 

4. When did the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly first sit? 


5. What structure occupied the Acton Peninsula prior to the National Museum being built? 


For answers to the quiz go to How to subscribe 


How to subscribe 


a> HOW TO SUBSCRIBE 


FUTURE RELEASES 


Want to keep up with the latest releases of ABS products? Subscribe to our free email notification service. 


RSS FEEDS 


the ABS website. You can access RSS feeds for ABS product releases as well as ABS national statistical 
headlines. 

BOOKMARKS 

Did you know you can also bookmark specific ABS statistical products or selected pages on the ABS 
website? Follow our step-by-step instructions for bookmarking on the ABS website. 

ABS MOBILE 


Keep in touch with the latest statistics when you are on the move with ABS Mobile. 


Disclaimer 

Please note that the ABS has implemented a handheld stylesheet that removes images. This enables us to 
provide you fast loading pages while on a handheld device. Please note that as a result, some graphs and 
other images may be removed and to see the full statistical product you should visit the full version of the 
ABS website. 

Quiz answers: 

1. Australian Capital Region. 

2. William James Farrer. 

3. Mitchell/Giurgola Architects from New York. 

4. 11 May 1989. 


5. Royal Canberra Hospital. 


Have your say 


* 
‘| HAVE YOUR SAY 


CALL FOR FEEDBACK 


We would like to hear from you if you have any feedback on the content of the newsletter or suggestions for 
how it may be improved. 


Feedback can be directed to the ABS ACT Regional Office. 
Telephone: 6525 8900 
Fax: 6247 2389 


Email: act.office@abs.gov.au 


ABS National Information Referral Service (NIRS) 

NIRS is the first point of contact for all your statistical and publication enquiries 
Telephone: 1300 135 070 

Fax: 1300 135 211 


Email: client.services@abs.gov.au 


About this Release 


ABStract - Statistical News: Australian Capital Territory provides new and relevant information about survey 
developments, information and training sessions, user consultations, major changes to the statistical 
program, state/territory data releases and significant ABS data releases. 


Explanatory Notes 


Abbreviations 
ABBREVIATIONS 
ACR Australian Capital Region 
ANZSCO Australian and New Zealand Standard Classification of Occupations 
ANZSIC Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification 
ASGS Australian Statistical Geography Standard 
CALD culturally and linguistically diverse 
CMD Chief Minister's Department 
CPI consumer price index 
CURF confidentialised unit record file 
ERP estimated resident population 
FOES Forms of Employment Survey 
IDP Information Development Plan 


NOM net overseas migration 


© Commonwealth of Australia 


All data and other material produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) constitutes Commonwealth copyright administered by the ABS. The ABS reserves the right 
to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. Unless otherwise noted, all material on this website - except the ABS logo, the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, 
and any material protected by a trade mark - is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Australia licence 


