NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  ('1-89)  -    Paid  Up 
WHU  640  Acres  dialing  Provision 
STANDARD  LEASE  v.5 


200G,  by  and  between 

whose  addreass  ia    ^fU^ff  (■     / -J>  ^  t  /\'  <£_    f<  s/,        /-£  ■/  'f'^  {.{/ ;>          /  / V '  K'  s^<  S         "J      {J    cf  as  Lessor, 

and,  PALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES,  L.L.C..  2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1»7P  DaljajTejtas  7§2Q1^s  Lessee."  All  printed  portions  of  Ihis  lease  were  prepared  by  (lie  parly 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  oilier  provisions  (including  Ihe  cumplellon  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jclnlly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lels  exclusively  lo  Lessee  IIib  following 
described  land,  hereinaflercalled  leased  premises: 

ACRES  OK  LAND,  MORE  OR  LESS,  BEING  LOT(S)  _„  BLOCK.,     J /<T 

OUT  OF  THE  .  G-c  v  /er  ___ADDIT10'N,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF 

/-rr;-f  Vj-<  ,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS,  ACCORDING  TO  THAT  CERTAIN  PLAT  RECORDED 

IN  VOLUME  .PAGE  £_/  _„_OF  THE  PLAT  RECORDS  OF  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS. 

in  Ihe  County  o!  Tarrant  Stale  of  TEXAS,  containing  ,  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  Inleresls  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 

reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise],  for  (he  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  nan  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  Includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  wed  as  hydrocaronn  gases.  In  addidun  io  Ihe  above-described  (eased  premises,  (his  lease  also  covers  accreiions  and  any  small  sfrips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  lo  the  abnve-descrlbed  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus, 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  tor  a  more  complete  or  accurate  descriplio/i  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose 
ot  determining  the  amount  ot  any  sluil-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  mom  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  In  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Lfivc  (5}years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil 
or  gas  or  olher  subslauces  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantifies  f[om  (he  (eased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  (herewlirt  or  (his  lease  Is  otherwise  maintained  in 
effect  pursuant  Lo  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  subslances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows;  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separaled  at  Lessee's  separator  tadlllles,  the  royally  shall  be  TwCllty-Piyrj  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  al  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  al  [he  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  al  the  oil  purchasers  frians  porta  Hon  facililies,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  righi  to  purchase  such  production  at  (he  wellhead  market  price 
then  prevailing  In  the  same  field  {or  If  there  Is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of 

similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  olher  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  (25%)  of  the  proceeds 
realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionals  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in 
delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  subslannes,  provider!  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  lo  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing 
wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  Ihe  same  field  (or  If  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  In  the  same  field,  then  In  the  nearest  field  In  which  time 
is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  conlracla  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  ihe  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  Its 
purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  al  Ihe  end  of  Ihe  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  or  either 
producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  walling  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  walls  are  either  shut- 
in  01  production  there  from  Is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  fur  the  purpose  of  maintaining 
Ihis  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  go  consecutive  days  such  wed  or  wells  are  shiil-lu  or  production  [here  from  Is  no!  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royally  of 
one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  lo  be  made  Lo  Lessor  or  lo  Les&ur's  credit  in  Ihe  depositary  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90- 
day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  [lie  end  of  said  90-day  period  white  Ilia  wall  or  wells  are  shut-in  nr  production  there  from  Is  not  being  sold  by 
Lessee;  provided  that  if  Ihis  lease  Is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  If  production  Is  being  sold  by  Leasee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  sliul-In  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  9D-t)ay  period  nexl  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly 
pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  foi  the  amount  due,  bul  shall  nol  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

'1.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tenderer]  lo  Lessor  or  lo  Lessors  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  lis  successors,  which  shall 
be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  ot  changes  In  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  paymenls  or  lenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by 
draft  and  such  payments  or  lenders  to  Lessor  or  lo  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  Ihe  depository  or  lo  the  Lessor  at  tile  last 
address  known  lo  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  Ihe  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  Institution,  or  for  any  reason  fall  or  refuse  to  accept 
payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  al  Lessee's  request,  deliver  lo  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  In  Paragraph  ti.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  Incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  Ihe  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  If  all  production  (whether  or  not  In  paying  quantities.)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  Including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries 
pursuant  lo  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  R  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  Ihe  event  this  lease  is  nol  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shad 
nevertheless  remain  In  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  tor  oiheiWIse  oblalnlng  or  restoring  production 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  fheiewltfl  within  9tl  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  00  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  al 
the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  al  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  nol  olheiwlse  being  maintained  in  Force  but  Lessee  Is  then  engaged  In  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  00  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  Ihe  production  ot  oil  or  gas  or  olher  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  (lie  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  [herewith  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances 
lo  (a)  develop  Hie  leased  premises  as  Id  formations  Iben  capable  0/  producing  In  paying  quantities  on  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  lo  prolecl  the 
leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  lo  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

0.  Lessee  shall  have  Ihe  right  but  nol  Ihe  obligation  io  pool  all  or  any  part  of  Uib  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  Interests,  as  lo  any  or  all 
depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  lo  do  so  In  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whulher  or  not  similar  pooling  aulhoiily  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  Is  nol  a  hoiizontal  completion  shall  nol  exceed  00  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  010  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  weli  or  gas  well  ar  horizontal 
completion  lo  conform  lo  any  well  spacing  or  density  patlern  thai  may  be  prescribed  or  permilled  by  any  governmenlal  authority  having  Jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose 
of  (he  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  wail"  shall  have  the  meanings  pi  escribed  by  applicable  law  or  (he  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or.  it  no  definition  is  so 
proscribed,  "oil  weir  means  a  wall  wilh  an  Initial  gas-oil  ratio  ofless  than  100,000  cubic  feel  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  wilh  an  initial  gas-ail  ratio  of  100,000  cubic 
feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  21-hour  producliori  (est  conducted  under  nonnal  producing  conditions  using  slandard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  lasting 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  Ihe  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  teating 
equipment;  and  (he  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  Ihe  hcrizonlal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  In  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  ila  pooling  lights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  tile  of  record  a  wrillen  declaration  describing  Ihe  unit  and  staling  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production,  drilling  or  reworking  opera  lions  anywbeie  on  a  unit  which  Includes  all  or  any  part  of  Ihe  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  If  it  were  production,  dulling  or 
reworking  operations  on  Ihe  teased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  lhal  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  Ihe 
net  acreage  covered  by  Ihis  lease  and  included  In  Ihe  unit  bears  lo  Ihe  total  yross  acreage  In  Ihe  unit,  but  only  to  Ihe  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by 
Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  Ihe  recurring  right  bul  not  Ihe  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  eilhar  before  or  after  commencement  ot  production,  In  order  lo  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern 
prescribed  or  perrnilted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  Jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  lo  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In 
making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  Ma  of  record  a  whiten  declaration  describing  Ihe  revised  unit  and  slaling  the  effective  date  of  revision,  lo  the  exlenl  any  portion  of  t  ie 
leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  ot  such  revision,  Ihe  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee  may  terminate  Ihe  unit  by  filing  ot  racora 
a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  staling  Ihe  dale  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  eross-cuweyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  Ihe  full  mineral  ostale  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  tor  any  well  on  any  part 
of  (lie  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  (Herewith  shalf  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  Interest  in  such  part  of  Ihe  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in 
such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


n.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  lie  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  pari,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  [lit! 
rights  and  obligations;  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  In  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  Ihe  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Leasee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  00  days 
afler  Lessee  lias  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  an  then  Healed  copies  of  [he  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  lias  satisfied  the  notification  i  equipments  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  Hie  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  enUllet!  lo  shut-In  royalties 
hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  slmLin  royalties  lo  Ihe  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  In  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  lime  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  heieunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  aliuHn  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  In  the  depository,  either  Jointly  or 
separately  In  proportion  lo  the  irjieresl  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  Its  Interest  hereunder  In  whole  or  in  pari  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  alt  obligations  thereafter 
arising,  with  respect  lo  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  Ihe  transferee  lo  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  lo  Ihe  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  In  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  Hits  lease,  the  obligation  lo 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  Ihe  Iransferee  in  proportion  lo  the  net  acreage  Interest  in  Ibis  lease  Ihen  held  by  each. 

0.  Lessee  may,  al  any  time  and  from  time  lo  time,  deliver  lo  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  In  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  there  under,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  lo  the  interest  so  released. 
If  Leasee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  In  less  than  all  of  ihe  ajea  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  lo  pay  or  lender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
In  accordance  with  Ihe  net  acreage  Interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  in  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  iands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  Ingress  and  egress  along  wilh  Ihe  right  lo  conducl  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  Including  but  not  limited  lo  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  Ihe  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canalE,  pipelines, 
(anl(s,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  Injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  Id  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  waler  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  Ihe  leased  premises, 
except  waler  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  lo  tire  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  Ihls  lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lossoi  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in 
writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  (eel  from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  (Is  operations  lo  buildings  and.  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  lo  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  theienn.  Lessee  shall  have  Ihe  right  at  any  lima  lo  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  Including  well  casing,  trom  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  lime  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obllgallons  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  Implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  aulhorlly 
having  Jurisdiction  Including  restrictions  en  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  subslances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  audi  laws,  rules,  regulations  ur  orders,  or  by  Inability  to  oblaln  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material, 
waler,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  rio),  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  Inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  lake  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  (his  lease  shall  not  leimlnale  because  of  such  prevention  ur  delay,  and  al  Lessee's  option,  the  peiiod  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  (o  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  he  liable  for  bleach  of  any  express  or  Implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  lhat  Lessor,  during  Ihe  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  lo  accept  horn  any  parly  offering  to  purchase  from 
Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  alt  of  (lie  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  Ihe  lease  becoming  effective  upon 
expiration  of  Ihis  lease,  Lessor  hereby  ayiees  lo  notify  Lessee  In  writing  of  said  offer  immediately.  Including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  Ihe  offeror,  the  price  offered 
and  all  other  pertinent  lerma  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  afler  receipt  ol  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  pieferred  right  and  option  to 
purchase  Ihe  tease  or  pari  (hereof  or  Interest  therein,  covered  by  (he  offer  al  (he  price  and  according  to  the  (erms  and  conditions  specified  In  Ihe  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initialed  by  Lessor  wilh  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  DO  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
writlen  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  deFault,  and  then  only  If  Lessee  falls  lo  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  Ihe  matter  Is  litigated  and 
there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  (hat  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  he  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  par  I  unless  Lessee  Is  given  a  reasonable 
lime  after  said  Judicial  determination  lo  remedy  Ihe  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  lo  do  su. 

11.  For  Ihe  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  l  essee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  Ihrough  the  leased  premises  for  Ihe  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  Ihe  surface  locations  of  which  are 
situated  on  oilier  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  lo  develop  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royally  or 
other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  welt  bora  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  suivlve  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  lo  defend  lllle  conveyed  lo  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  lhat  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  Hens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  Ihe  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  Ihe  rights  of  Ihe  party  to 
whom  payment  Is  made,  and,  in  addition  lo  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  lo  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  wllb  Lessor's  litle,  Lessee  may  suspend  ihe  payment  of  royalties  and  sbul-ln  royalties  hereunder,  without  Interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  lhat  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

10.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  (a  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

17.  This  lease  may  be  executed  In  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 
DISCLAIMER  <JF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oli  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  file  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royally,  are  market  sensitive  and 
may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  thai  this  Lease  is  the  product  or"  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms 
are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  Ihls  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  clown  depending  on  market 
conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or 
different  terms  depending  on  Future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms 
which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  fiisl  written  above,  bul  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parlies  hereinabove  namBd  as  Lessor. 

LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE} 

if 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  Texas 


STATE  OF  Texas 
COUNTY  OF  XttLTiUlt 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  (Tie  on  the   day  of   _,  200B,  by: 


Notary  Public,  Stale  ol  Texas 
Nolary'a  name  (printed}: 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  L8-9 


DALLAS  IX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$20.00 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by;  CN 


