‘4 


Australian! MUStralian Bureau of Statistics 


Statistics 


1364.0.15.003 - Modellers' Database, June Qtr 2019 


Previous ISSUE Released at 11:30 AM (CANBERRA TIME) 19/09/2019 


Summary 


Main Features 


Main features 


The Modellers' Database contains 119 series derived from National Accounts and Labour 
Force data to facilitate modelling requirements of stakeholders. 

Changes in future issues 

The content and format of the Modellers' Database is currently under review, including a 
review of the methodology applied on selected series which may result in revisions in future 
releases. Label descriptions will be updated to more accurately reflect the underlying series 
while series IDs will be maintained. For further information about these upcoming changes 
please contact the National Information and Referral Service on 1300 135 070 or email 
<national.accounts@abs.gov.au>. 


Rounding 


Any discrepancies between totals and sums of components are due to rounding. 


Privacy 

The ABS Privacy Policy outlines how the ABS will handle any personal information that you 
provide to the ABS. 

Inquiries 


For further information about these and related statistics, contact the National Information 
and Referral Service on 1300 135 070. 


About this Release 


The Modellers' Database consists of 119 quarterly time series constructed from the National 
Income Forecasting model. Some of the time series are published elsewhere by ABS while 
others are specifically constructed for the National Income Forecasting model. 


© Commonwealth of Australia 


All data and other material produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) constitutes Commonwealth copyright administered by the ABS. 
The ABS reserves the right to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. Unless otherwise noted, all material on this website - 
except the ABS logo, the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, and any material protected by a trade mark - is licensed under a Creative Commons 


Attribution 2.5 Australia licence 


