TX  -  PAID  UP 


NOTSCE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
'REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT 
BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY 
NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  j/     day  of  June.  2008,  between 

&ri*«-  $e,*fe-  j  a.  y?*^>*~*  ,  whose  address  is 

/fc^T  iTr.  ^r  t/£*y  P>A>-*<k>~,  7V-   7^"lX  as  Lessor,  and  Dale  Property  Services, 

L.L.C,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company,  whose  address  is  2100  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  1870,  LB-9,  Dallas,  Texas  75234,  as 
Lessee. 

1 .  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  this  Lease,  and  the  covenants  herein 
contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land,  to  wit: 

0 .  Xif^       acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  all  of  Lot       I  ^         Block  _6  ,   out  of 

P*esl»x*>#*tA   U<j"i-~  Addition,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Texas,  with  metes  and  bounds 

more  particularly  described  in  the  plat  thereof,  as  recorded  in  Volume/  Cabinet  3Sff~^l  1 /  ,  Page/  Slide 

 ,  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

(including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the 
purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas" 
means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore. 
"Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas'* 
includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this 
Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  The  leased  premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets, 
easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or 
supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  For 
the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  on  Schedule 
I  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term-  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  commercial  paying  quantities  from  the  leased 
premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

It  is  hereby  understood  by  and  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  that  any  time  during  the  final  year  of  the  primary 
term,  Lessee  may,  at  Lessee's  option  extend  the  primary  term  for  an  additional  term  of  two  (2)  years  by  paying  to  Lessor 
the  amount  equal  to  the  original  bonus  amount. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be 
twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's 
credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production, 
severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the 
wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then 
in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas 
(including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  the 
proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem 
taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase 
such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there 
is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price) 
pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in 
paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well 
or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A 
well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced  shall  be  deemed  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of 
ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then 
Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty-five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of 
said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells 
are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being 
maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such 
operations  or  production.  This  Lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  and  effect  after  the  end  of  its  primary  term  solely  by 
the  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  a  longer  period  of  time  than  one  consecutive  (1 )  year.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay 
shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas 
or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  credit  or  benefit  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for 
the  cost  of  Producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and 
marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  to  be  produced  under  the  Lease;  however,  in  the  event  Lessee  determines  in 


costs  charged  by  an  unaffiliated  interstate  or  intrastate  gas  pipeline  in  order  to  enhance  the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other 
products,  Lessor's  pro  rata  share  of  such  costs  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production.  In  no  event  shall 
Lessor  ever  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than  the  price  to  be  received  by  Lessee.  Lessee  agrees  to  provide  and  make 
available  to  Lessor  upon  written  request  Lessee's  records  maintained  or  utilized  in  connection  with  any  efforts  to  enhance 
the  value  of  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  be  produced  pursuant  to  and  in  connection  with  this  Lease  together  with  any  costs 
paid  or  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  hereunder. 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  AH  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency  or  by  check.  Lessee  shall  pay  all  royalties  on  or 
before  the  sixty  (60)  days  succeeding  the  month  of  production;  provided  however,  royalties  on  the  first  month's 
production  from  any  well  shall  not  be  due  and  payable  until  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  from  the  date  of  first 
production.  If  Lessee  shall  fail  to  pay  royalties  as  and  when  required,  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor  interest  at  the  rate  of  one 
and  a  half  percent  (1.5%)  per  month  (but  in  no  event  at  a  rate  greater  than  the  highest  rate  allowed  by  law)  on  the  unpaid 
royalties  from  the  date  such  royalties  were  due  to  be  paid  until  such  royalties  are  actually  paid  in  full.  Initial  bonus 
monies  shall  be  paid  to  Lessor  by  currency  or  check  by  Lessee  upon  Lessee's  receipt  of  Lessor's  executed  lease. 

5.  Continuous  Drilling  Operations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (a 
"dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities) 
permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  6  or  the 
action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional 
well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  ninety  (90) 
days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at 
the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is 
then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production 
therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation 
of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such 
additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the 
same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated 
drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory 
wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interests 
therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this 
lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in 
order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to 
such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be  included  in 
any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which 
is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  often  percent  (10%), 
and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty  (640)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%);  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the 
meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil 
well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with 
an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal 
producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  "horizontal 
completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the 
vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  first  production,  Lessee 
shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling  which  may  be 
retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's  acreage  shall  be 
included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased  premises  shall  be 
treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on 
which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by 
this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not 
exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order 
to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making 
such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit 
production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of 
production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing 
of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not 
constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  Partial  Interests.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 


shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate 
in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole 
or  in  part  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their 
respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  In  the  event  of  an  assignment  of  any  portion 
of  Lessee's  interest  hereunder,  with  the  exception  of  assignments  being  made  to  officers,  directors,  and/or  subsidiaries  of 
Lessee,  Lessee  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  via  email  at  i nfo@nwarlington  .com  a  recordable  document  of  the  interest  so 
assigned.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of 
Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  sixty  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished 
the  original  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the 
event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to 
the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  at  the  address  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled 
to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons,  either  jointly,  or  separately 
in  proportion  to  the  interests  which  each  owns. 

9.  Release  and  Vertical  Push  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  in 
recordable  form  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area 
covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with 
the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns, 
shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  of  this  Lease  which  have  terminated  under  the 
terms  of  this  Lease.  At  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  this  Lease  shall  expire  as  to  all  acreage  except  for  the  number  of  acres 
hereinafter  specified  around  each  well  then  producing  oil  and/or  gas  in  paying  quantities  ("Retained  Tract")  unless 
operations  are  being  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  Cessation  of  Production  provision  herein.  The  Retained  Tract  for  a 
vertical  well  shall  maintain  this  Lease  as  to  not  more  than  Eighty  (80)  acres.  The  Retained  Tract  for  a  horizontal  well 
shall  equal  no  more  than  Six  Hundred  Forty  (640)  acres.  The  retained  acreage  for  a  vertical  well  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a 
square  as  nearly  as  practically  possible  and  the  retained  acreage  for  a  horizontal  well  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  rectangle 
with  the  center  line  of  the  long  dimension  of  the  rectangle  following  the  horizontal  drain  hole  as  nearly  as  practically 
possible.  As  used  in  this  Lease,  the  term  "horizontal  well"  will  mean  one  that  meets  the  definition  of  a  "horizontal 
drainhole  well"  under  statewide  Rule  86  of  the  Texas  Railroad  Commission  and  a  "vertical  weir  is  a  well  that  is  not  a 
horizontal  well.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of 
the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  further 
terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest 
formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith, 
whichever  is  the  deepest;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands 
pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days 
elapse  between  operations. 

10.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the 
surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (  including  but  not  limited  to 
except  for  geophysical/seismic  operations  as  stated  below)  on  the  leased  premises.  Further,  no  well(s)  used  for  directional 
drilling  under  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  from  any  house  or 
commercial  building  now  on  the  leased  premises  without  Lessor's  prior  written  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  any 
damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  accordingly.  Lessee 
shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced 
from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood 
streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  any  lands  pooled  therewith  or  otherwise. 

11.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of 
wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in 
the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill 
sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non- 
electric-powered equipment  in  its  operations,  including  but  not  limited  to  compression  equipment,  Lessee  shall  take 
reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

12.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied, 
shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction, 
including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the 
price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders  are  less 
restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations 
are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war, 
sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production 
or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within 
Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of 
such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied 
covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted.  Lessee 
shall  take  all  reasonable  actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  of  Force  Majeure  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  (1) 
consecutive  year  or  three  (3)  years  of  cumulative  time.  No  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay  money  that  has  accrued  and  was 


due  before  the  Force  Majeure  event  occurred  under  this  lease  will  be  excused  or  delayed  by  reason  of  such  Force  Majeure 
event. 

13.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with 
their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of 
action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought, 
including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers, 
employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the 
leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of 
any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee. 
Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties 
against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death), 
costs  and  expenses?  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  claims  of  contract,  statute  or 
strict  liability,  including  reasonable  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to 
environmental  hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related 
to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way  related  to 
Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or 
operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that 
may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other 
act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests, 
invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to 
be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided 
above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above. 

14.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

15.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral 
estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein,  except  title  by,  through  and  under  Lessor.  All  other 
warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property 
Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full 
opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises. 
Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures,  except  failure  of  title  by,  through  and  under  Lessor. 

1 6.  Subordination.    Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  neither  Lessee  nor  Lessee's  assigns 
shall  ever  require  a  subordination,  partial  release  of  lien,  release  of  lien,  consent  or  other  documentation  from  any  lender 
of  Lessor  that  has  a  lien  on  said  land  as  a  condition  to  Lessor  receiving  any  subsequent  royalty  payment,  unless  the 
wellbore  penetrates  the  leased  premises,  in  which  case  Lessee  shall  notify  Lessor.  However,  Lessor  will  cooperate  with 
any  reasonable  effort  of  Lessee  to  obtain  same  from  Lessor's  lender  on  behalf  of  Lessor. 

17.  Top  Leasing  Permitted.  There  shall  be  no  prohibition  or  limitation  on  top  leasing. 

18.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable. 

19.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions 
herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 
enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so 
determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
Lease,  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine, 
feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

20.  Communications  Lessee  will  provide  Lessor  via  email  at  info(g).nwarl  ington.com  with  quarterly  reports  as  to 
overall  activity  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessor  hereby  acknowledges  that  the  information  provided  to  it  by  Lessee 
pursuant  to  the  terms  of  this  Paragraph  20  is  for  informational  purposes  only  and  Lessee  cannot  be  held  liable  for  any 
change  in  its  anticipated  operational  activities  or  for  the  unintentional  mis-statement  of  data  that  it  is  required  to  provide 
as  a  result  of  same.  At  Lessor's  written  request,  Lessee  will  allow  free  access  to  books,  records  and  drilling  data 
accumulated  pursuant  to  operations  conducted  on  the  leased  premises  for  up  to  two  (2)  years  prior  to  such  a  request 
provided  it  has  the  authority  to  do  so.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that  such  information  is  proprietary  in  nature,  and  Lessor 
hereby  agrees  and  covenants  not  to  disclose  any  such  information  to  any  entity  or  person  not  a  party  to  this  Lease.  Lessor 
hereby  agrees  that  violation  of  said  covenant  would  work  a  competitive  disadvantage  to  Lessee  and  cause  Lessee  to  suffer 
damage. 

21.  Development  Plan.  The  Drilling  Program  will  have  two  (2)  permitted  wells  in  the  first  six  (6)  months,  a  total  of 
seven  (7)  permitted  wells  within  eighteen  (18)  months  and  a  total  of  ten  (10)  permitted  wells  within  twenty-four  (24) 
months  and  includes  a  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  day  delay  to  continuous  development  provision 


Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or  from  producing  any  oil, 
gas  or  other  minerals  therefrom  by  reason  of  delay  caused  by  governmental  entity  in  the  approval  process  of  permitting, 
by  reason  of  lease  holdouts  preventing  the  ability  to  obtain  a  clear  drill  path,  or  by  operation  of  force  majeure,  and  Federal 
or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented,  Lessee's  obligation  to 
comply  with  any  covenant  of  this  Lease  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to 
comply  therewith;  and  this  lease  shall  be  extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from 
conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  the  lease  premises;  and  the  time  while 
Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

The  breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  arising  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease 
nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part. 
No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least 
90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to 
remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period. 

22.  Division  Orders.  It  is  agreed  that  neither  the  Lease  nor  any  of  its  terms  or  provisions  shall  be  altered,  amended, 
extended  or  ratified  by  any  division  order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  Lessor's  successor's,  agents  or  assigns.  If 
Lessee  shall  require  the  execution  of  a  division  order  for  payment  of  royalty  payable  under  the  Lease,  then  it  shall  follow 
and  be  in  compliance  with  Section  91.402(d)  of  the  Texas  Natural  Resources  Code  as  amended  from  time  to  time.  Any 
amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  lease,  or  any  term  or  provision  of  this  Lease,  shall  be  made  only  by 
an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the 
proposed  change  or  modification  hereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against  whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration, 
extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced.  Any  purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so 
drafted  shall  be  of  no  force  or  effect. 


23.  Release  and  Disclaimer.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  this  addendum,  the  amount  of  the 
royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  all  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee  (herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms")  with 
respect  to  this  Lease,  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the  group  known  as  North  West 
Arlington  aka  "NWA",  which  consists  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers.  Lessor  hereby  understands  and  agrees  that 
"NWA"  and  its  members  have  received  and  will  receive  no  remuneration  or  compensation  of  any  kind  for  their  efforts 
from  any  party  associated  with  or  representing  the  Lessee  on  this  Lease.  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  spent  by  the 
North  West  Arlington  Committee  Members  and  other  volunteers  in  negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on 
behalf  of  Lessor,  Lessor  on  behalf  of  themselves  and  each  of  their  respective  agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors, 
parents,  subsidiaries,  affiliated  corporations,  or  other  affiliated  entities,  agents,  successors,  partners,  principals,  assigns, 
attorneys,  servants,  agents,  employees,  heirs,  consultants  and  other  representatives,  does  hereby  release  and  forever 
discharge  the  North  West  Arlington  Committee  Members,  volunteers,  or  the  Northwest  Arlington  Group  which  relate  to, 
arise  from,  or  are  in  any  manner  connected  to  (i)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (ii)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iii) 
the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iv)  any  activity,  act  or  omission  in  any  way 
related  to  the  Negotiated  Terms  or  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms  or  (v)  any  and  all  representation  made  prior, 
during,  and  subsequent  to  Lessor's  execution  of  the  Lease  Agreement. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  LESSOR 


Printed  Name:     Crffiorf  P£tK   Printed  Name: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  by  Caron  Peck,  as  Lessor  on  the  day  of 

5wuf>_  ,  2008. 


■\  My  Co^-r  -listen  t/cire-     jj      ^&ffiafy&1fiTi<^St&te  of  Texas 

STATE  OF  fEXAS"'"''^'"'^  •^^■^^'•™Vw'^-i 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  by  ,  as  Lessor  on  the 

day  of  ,  2008. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS 


TX  75201 


Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:      07/03/2008  09:19  AM 
instrumentV:  D2082S7739 


laiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


D208257739 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


6  PGS 


$32.00 


Printed  by:  CN 


