NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS;  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
,  With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
/  (No  Surface  Use) 

/  THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  mis  23rd  day  of  April,  2008,  by  and  between  Bettv  P  Quavra&ux.  as  Leaaor.  whose  address  is:  4200  Hlldrlng  Dr.  W.,  Ft  Worth, 
TX  76109  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO-  LLC.  201  Main  Street  14SS.  Fort  Worth.  Texas.  76102.  as  Lessee  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the 
party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  Hie  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  in  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described 
land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

Stock  19,  Lot  2,  of  the  Prospect  Heights  Addition,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  plat  recorded  In  Volume  63,  Page 
59  Deed  records, 

See  Addendum  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof. 

in  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  .1866  gross  acres,  more  or  less  {including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances 
produced  in  association  therewith  {including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas'  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as 
well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter 
owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining 
the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shaH  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  lass. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil 
or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in 
effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  men  prevailing  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and 
gravity;  (b)  far  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof, 
less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  men  in 
the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which 
Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  teased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  In  paying  quantities  or  such  wens  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but 
such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities 
for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee 
shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  In  the  depository 
designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  60-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in 
or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from 
another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such 
operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have 
the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  a  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor'  a  address  above  or  Its  successors, 
which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by 
check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor 
at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  if  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fall  or  refuse 
to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive 
payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  'dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shaH 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  tor  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  00  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at 
the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  mis  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  man  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
there  is  production  In  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  weH  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  teased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances 
to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the 
leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  Interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  alt 
depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  tor  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  wefl  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  mat  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oH  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose 
of  trie  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  wed"  and  "gas  well*  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well*  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  weH"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic 
feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  tease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion''  means  an  oil  welt  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  In  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  Includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  teased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  mat  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the 
net  acreage  covered  by  this  tease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  In  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by 
Lessee,  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority,  in 
making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record 
$  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  teased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  weH  on  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in 
such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedents  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns,  if  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  In  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  ail  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 


Lessee  with  respect  to  any  Merest  not  so  transferred,  f  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undmded  interest  in  al  of  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  tease,  the  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shaft  be  tfwded  between  Lessee  aod  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  tease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  al  any  time  and  bom  time  to  bme,  deftwr  to  Lessor  or  fie  of  record  a  wrinen  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  fid  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  mis  lease  or  any  depots  or  zones  eieraunder,  and  shaB  Thereupon  be  refteved  of  an  obSgaOons  ttwreaner  arising  wRh  respect  to  the  Interest  so  released. 
K  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  aB  of  fhe  area  covered  hereby.  Lessee's  obSgation  to  pay  or  fender  shut-in  royatties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  inleresl  retailed  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  imitating  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  un  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shal  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  Sie  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  frnfled  to  geophysical  operations,  the  rHeng  of  wefts,  ant  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipefnes. 
tanks,  water  wefts,  disposal  wefts,  injection  wefts,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  fates,  power  stations,  and  other  lacOfes  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  andfor  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  n  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  of,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds,  ki  exploring,  dcwitauing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  twriire  teased  premieee  <teecribed  w  Paragraph  1  above.  nohwthstaocSng  any  partial  rataase  or  other  partial  tefrrortaikw  of  this  tease,  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in 
writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordmary  plow  depth  on  cuttrvated  lands.  No  weft  shal  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased 
ptenwsss  or  other  lands,  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  oowwWL  and  Lessee  shal  pay  lor  damage  caused  by  fcs  operahors  to  buftdings  and  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  ember  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  lime  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  including  welt  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  ofher  lands  during  me  term  ot  fhrs  lease  or  witfim  a  reasonable  time  (hereafter. 

11.  Noise  levels  associated  win  Lessee's  operations  retated  to  dreanfl,  completion  and  rewortong  of  wefts  shal  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into 
consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oi  and  gas  Mushy,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of 
Lessee's  driBsftes  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  n  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  S  Lessee  uhfces  any  non-electric  powered  equipment  in  its 
operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  me  sowid  therefrom  by  mstaffng  a  noise  sivpression  muftter  or  Hie  equipment.  Lessee  wil  foftow  all  appfcaMe  city 
ordinances  law  regarding  noise. 

12 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  thte  tease,  whether  express  or  impSed,  shal  be  subject  to  al  appBcafale  laws,  rules,  reputations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  fee  driang  and)  producton  of  wets,  and  me  price  of  oi,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inabftry  to  obtaei  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material, 
water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  condttons,  war,  sabotage,  tebetton,  rnsunecfcn,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  faiure  of  purchasers  or  earners  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  this  lease  shaft  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof, 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  tease  when  dotting,  production  or  other  operaworei  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

13.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with  ffieir  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors, 
subcontractors,  guests  and  Invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (coftoctwoh/  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  aB  and  any  actions  and  causes  of  action 
of  every  nature,  or  other  harm.  indiKlirrg  environmental  harm.forwrKh  recovery  or  damages  bul  not  ferreted  to,  al  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused 
by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resutbng  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or 
at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  oi  the  terms  or  provisions  of  Oils  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or 
strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  fable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  Ihe  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all 
claims,  BabtlrSes,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (nobdmg  death),  costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought, 
under  any  theory  including  tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  BeWty,  including  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  inetudrng  those  related  to  environ  menial  hazards  on  or 
under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  she  or  operations  site  or  m  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  fafture  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in 
any  way  related  to  Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  n,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  al  the  drift  sie  or  operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's 
use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  teased  premises;  and  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease 
or  any  other  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  te  oaoctors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests,  krvitees  and  their  respective  successors  and 
assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  Merest  herein,  agrees  to  be  table  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parlies  in  the  same  manner 
pro^kied  above  in  coiwection  with  the  actws^ 

14.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  k  VMftmg  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from 
Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  aK  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon 
expiration  of  this  tease.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notfy  Lessee  in  wring  of  said  otter  nunedKftefy.  inducing  ki  the  notice  the  name  and  address  ot  the  offeror,  the  price  offered 
and  alt  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions,  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to 
purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  otter  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer 

15.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  win  respect  In  any  broach  or  defeat  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  toast  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
written  notice  fuHy  describing  the  breach  or  detank,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fans  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  wrthei  such  period.  b>  the  event  the  matter  is  ftJgated  and 
there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  Ms  lease  shal  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  n  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable 
lime  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  defaul  and  Lessee  fans  to  do  so 

16.  For  the  same  consJderation  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  easement 
under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  ptacernent  of  weft  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oi  or  gas  wefts  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on 
other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shaft  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit. 
Such  subsurface  easements  shaft  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  terrninaton  of  this  lease. 

17.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  bens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  tooled  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shal  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  parly  to 
whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  Its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  ftseff  oat  of  any  royalties  or  ahut-n  royatliqs  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  ^consistent  win  Lessor's  file.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royatties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  dawn  has  been  resolved. 

18.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease.  Lessee  shaft  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  driSing  or  other 
operations. 


\H  WITHESS  WHERBOf,  this  tease  fa  ewecutod  to  he  egectjpo  as  ot  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shaft  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  aft  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  IWHETHER 

Betty  P.  Quevn 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


ACKNOmEDGMENT 


15 


.day  of 


SHELLEY  0.BOV.0EM 
i  Notary  Public  State  of  Tew 
Mv  Commission  Expires 
y  02.14-2010 


Nota^uMcT  Sale  of  U 
Notary's  name  (printed);  | 
Notary's  comrrassioo  i 


2008.  by  Betty  P.  Quevreaux 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the , 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


_day  of 


, 2008,  by 


Notary  Pubfc,  State  of  Tees 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  ccmmisstori  expres 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  Ihe  

Book  .Page  ,  of  the. 

By  


,.20_ 


.at 


o'clock 


M.,  and  duty  recorded  in 


records  of  this  office. 


Clerk  (or  Deputy) 


ADDENDUM 


Attached  thereto  and  made  a  part  thereof  that  certain  Paid  Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (No  Surface 
Use)  dated  the  23*  day  of  April,  2008,  by_Betty  P  Quevreaux  as  Lessor,  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY 
CO.,  L.L.C.,  as  Lessee. 


19.  No  Warranty  of  Title:  This  Lease  is  given  subject  to  all  mineral  reservations  of  record. 

Lessor  warrants  that  Lessor  is  the  owner  of  the  Land,  but  does  not  warrant  title  to  minerals.  Lessee  is 
relying  upon  its  own  title  search. 


20.  Compression  Station:  The  Lessee  will  not  place  any  gas  compression  station  within 
1 000  feet  from  the  boundaries  of  the  neighborhoods  of  the  following  subdivisions:  Frisco 
Railroad,  Frisco  Heights  and  Prospect  Heights. 

2 1 .  Addendum  Provisions  Govern:  The  foregoing  Addendum  and  the  provisions  of  the 
Addendum  shall  supersede  and  govern  the  provisions  of  the  lease,  wherever  those  provisions  are  in 
conflict  with  the  Addendum.  This  lease,  including  the  Addendum,  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of,  and  be 
binding  upon  the  parties  hereto  and  other  respective  heirs,  representatives,  successors  and  assigns. 


IN  WTTNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


LESSOR: 


i 


i 


Addendum  to  Lease 


Page  1  of  1 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP 
301  COMMERCE  ST  STE  600 

FT  WORTH  TX  76102 

Submitter:  CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


