NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  I INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  TIJAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILE! 
FOR  RECORB  1N*THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

rrailiwBm  88  (4-89)  —  Pnid  Up 
Willi  6*10  Aiirea  Pooling  Provision 
STANDARD  LEASE  v.D 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  Is  made  (tils        9&  rd        day  of       (IqjCj  £T  ,  200B,  by  and  between 

(LDQrloey.^  ..JDh^^O^&Si^i  t  .Perse  \>  ^  

******  b  15J5  With)  T)riu^  O.'pnkLr  t4.)/  Tfern  £   a5  Le„or. 

and,  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES.  LLC.  2-JOP  Ross  Avenue,  Suite  11)70  Dallas  !>ias.75gDl,  as  Lessee.  All  piloted  portions  of  Ibis  tease  warn  prepared  by  Die  parly 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (Including  (he  completion  of  It?^»^ f J<  spaces)  worn  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Leasee. 

"I.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  In  hand  paid  and  (lis  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  giants,  leases  and  late  exclusively  to  Lessee  liie  following 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

J/oL      ACRES  OF  LAND  MORE  OR  LESS,  BEING  I.OT(S)_    J?U\_  -  .  .  BLOCK   

OUT  OF  THE     VoJ^YlEiQ  ____  ADDITION,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF 

VDlTt  \^7i^r  ~  "  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS,  ACCORDING  TO  THAT  CERTAIN  PLAT  RECORDED 
IN  VOLUME       apt]"   PAGE   OF  THE  PLAT  RECORDS  OF  TARRANT  COUNTY.  TEXAS. 


in  the  County  of  Tel  [T3  tit,  Stale  of  TEXAS,  containing  __„*__]Lij&_I?__  ___  gnjss  acres,  mora  or  less  (fnuUiding  any  Interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 
reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  tor  Ilia  purpose  oF  exploring  lor,  developing,  producing  and  rnadteling  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (Including  geophysical/seismic  operations),  "the  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  oilier 
commercial  gases,  as  weii  as  hydrocarbon  gasea.  In  addition  Id  (be  abnve-rlesuribed  leaned  premises.  Ibis  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  sliips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  era  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  Ihe  above- described  leaned  pmnifaes,  and,  in  consfrleiallan  of  (be  aforemenlioned  cash  bonus, 
Lessor  agrees  lo  execute  at  Lessee's  reqtiesl  any  additional  or  supplemental  innlmmenlf:  for  a  mors  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  Ihe  purpose 
of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  (he  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

'  2.  This  leans,  which  is  a  "paW-up"  lease  requldng  no  rentals,  shall  hn  in  force  for  a  primary  form  cf  JE^JAJl________   iyears  horn  II ie  date  hereof,  and  Fur 

as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  qustntiliss  from  lire  leased  premises  nr  from  lands  pooled  (herewith  or  llils  lease  Is 
otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  iiereur. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  oilier  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  bo  paidby  Lessee  lo  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oii  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbuns 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royally  shall  be  TUjENHtt- ^  \\J&  YEX'C.'&Ot  (  __%)  of  such  production,  to  be  deliverad  at  Lessee's  option  to 
Lessor  at.  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  Ihe  oil  purchaser's  transpdnation  tacViilies,  provided  thai  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  lo  pui  chase  such  production  at 
lbs  wellhead  mantel  prica  then  prevailing  In  the  .same  Held  (or  if  Iheie  is  no  such  pi  ices  Ihen  prevailing  in  Ihe  same  Hold,  limn  In  ihe  nearesl  field  In  which  Ihera  Is  such  a 
prevailing  price}  for  adduction  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  lor  gas  {including  cosing  head  gas)  and  all  oilier  subs lanna,*)  covered  hereby,  Ihe  royally  shall  be 
"I^E^^tU'  Vlv£  rTrrCEJL>r  C^^__%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  (hereof,  lens  a  proportionate  pari  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and 
productlonHeverance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incinrad  by  Lessee  in  deliveu'ng,  processing  or  othRrwise  maikeling  such  gas  or  other  substanegs,  provided  !ha( 
LHBSee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  al  Ilia  pievailing,  wellhead  maikol  pi  ice  paid  lor  produciion  ot  similar  quality  In  the  same  lielU  (or  If  there  Is 
no  such  pilce  then  prevailing  In  Ihe  same  field,  Ihen  In  the  nearest  Held  in  which  lliera  is  nuch  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  conlracls  entered  into  on 
Ihe  same  or  nearesl  precedlijy  dale  as  the  dale  on  which  Lessee  comrnonce.s  fls  purubasos  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  al  the  ond  of  Ihe  primary  term  or  any  llmo  thereafter  one  or 
more  wells  nn  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  (hmewllli  are  capable  of  Rillisr  producing  oil  or  ga-s  or  other  subslanceg  covered  hereby  In  paying  quanlllles  or  such  wells 
are  walling  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  eiltiar  shut  in  or  pi  eduction  Iheie  from  is  no!  being  sold  by  1  essee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless 
ha  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  Tor  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease,  if  for  a  period  of  00  conseculfve  days  such  woil  or  wells  are  shut-In  or  production- 
there  from  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  uhall  pay  Bhut-ln  loyally  of  one  dollar  per  acrn  tiion  covered  by  Ibis  lease,  such  payment  lo  he  made  lo  Lessor  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  in  the  depositary  designated  below,  on  or  before  Ihe  end  oi  said  PO-Uay  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversaiy  ot  the  end  of  said  t)0-day  period 
while  the  well  or  wells  are  shul-ln  or  produciion  there  from  is  no!  being  sold  by  Lessee,  piovlded  lliat  if  Ibis  tease  Is  olheiwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  it  proUucHon 
Is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  anolher  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  oi  lands  pooled  theiowilh,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  unlil  lbs  end  of  Iho  90-day  period  noxl 
following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  lr;  pmperly  pay  sbul-in  royally  shall  render  Lessee  liablo  for  Ihe  amounl  dua,  but  shall  no!  operate  lo 
terminate  this  lease. 

4.  Alt  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  (his  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendeied  to  Lessor  or  io  Lbhsoi's  ciedit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  Its  successors,  which  shafl 
be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  ihe  ownership  nt  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by 
draft  and  such  payments  or  lenders  lo  Lessor  or  lo'lbe  dopositoiy  by  deposit  in  Hie  uy  Mails  In  a  stamped  tmvelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last 
address  known  lo  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  Die  deposllojy  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  anolliar  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fall  or  refuse  lo  accept 
payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  a!  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lassen  a  proper  recordable  Insli  umenl  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  0.  above,  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  In  paying  qunnlilles  (bejoinaller  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  produciion  (whether  ot  not  in  payifiy  n,  nan  lilies)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  Includiny  a  revision  of  unit  buuntlarfoy 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  or  Paragraph  0  or  (he  action  of  any  governmental  auihodty,  (lien  in  (ha  event  this  lease  is  nol  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  il  shall 
uevedhetess  remain  In  force  It  Lessee  commences  operations  lor  lewurkmg  an  existing  well  oi  for  drilling  an  additional  wall  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  pioduciion 
on  the  lrj33ed  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  alter  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  91)  days  after  such  cessation  of  ail  production,  if  at 
the  end  of  the  pilmary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  Is  not  othorwhifi  being  maintained  in  force  hut  Lessee  Is  Ihen  engaged  in  di tiling ,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reaeonably  calculated  to  oblaln  or  restore  produciion  Iheroirom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  lung  as  any  one  or  more  ot  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessalteil  of  more  than  OfJ  consecutive  days,  and  IF  any  such  uperalions  In  Ihe  prnducliun  of  oil  or  gas  oi  olhor  substances  cuvered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
(hero  is  produciion  In  paying  quantifies  from  (he  laasad  premises  or  lands  pooled  iherewilh.  Aflor  completion  of  a  wr;ll  capable  of  producing  in  paying  guanlilios  boreuwlei, 
Lessee  shall  drlif  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  ur  lands  pooled  (herewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  (he  same  or  similar  circumslanceF 
to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  lo  formations  then  capable  of  producing,  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (bj  to  prelect  (he 
teased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  locked  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith  IIipio  shall  be  no  covenant  tu  drill  exploratory  welis  or  an1, 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

D.  Lessee  bIibII  have  Ihe  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  pail  ot  the  leased  promises  or  inleresl  therein  with  any  other  lands  oi  interests,  as  lo  any  or  a 
depths  or  zones,  and  aa  lo  any  or  all  gubslances  covered  by  this  loose,  eilhoi  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  il  necessary  i. 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  fo  prudently  develop  or  operate  (he  leased  premises,  whelher  or  nol  similar  pooling  oulhorily  exists  with  respeel  to  siinh  olber  lands  or  interests.  Tb 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  Is  not  a  hoiiznulai  cuinplolion  shall  no/  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  G<10  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  laiger  unit  may  be  formed  tor  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizon! 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  Foi  the  purpor 
of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "ail  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  delinition  is  i 
prescribed",  'oil  well"  means  a  well  wllh  an  Initial  gas-oil  raBo  ot  less  lhan  lUO.tKH)  cubic  tnel  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas  oil  ratio  of  100.000  cut. 
teal  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-bour  production  lesl  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  slandaid  tease  separator  tacililtes  or  equivalent  teslli 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  whin)]  Iho  hod/onla!  component  of  Ihe  ijross  completion  Inleival  in  facilities  or  equivalent  tesll 
equipment;  and  (he  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  wall  in  which  Urn  bdflzontel  component  of  the  gross  completion  inleival  In  (be  reservoir  exceeds  the  verlit 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  Its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  Ifle  of  record  a  wdlteu  declaration  describing  Ihe  unit  and  staling  Ihe  offeclive  dale  of  poolii 
Production,  drilling  or  rewoiklng  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  al!  or  any  paif  or  Ihe  leased  premises  slta"  he  treated  as  if  it  were  produciion,  drilling 
reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  produciion  on  which  Lessor's;  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  (hat  proportion  of  (he  total  unit  produciion  which  1 
nel  acreage  covered  by  this  tease  and  included  in  Ihe  unit  bears  to  Hie  total  gross  acreage  In  the  unit,  but  only  lo  Ihe  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  produciion  lr,  sold 
Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  mors  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lor,seo  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  nol  the  obligation  lo  roviso  ; 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  conlracllon  or  both,  eilhar  before  m  nhor  commencement  of  produciion,  in  order  lo  conform  fo  the  well  spacing  or  density  pall 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  Ihe  governmental  authority  having  Jurisdiction,  &  fo  croifomi  fo  any  pmdudive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  aulhoniy. 
making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  tile  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  foa  revised  unit  and  slating  Ihe  effective  date  of  revision.  1  n  the  extent  any  portion  of 
leased  premises  is  Included  In  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  leviaion,  Ihe  proportion  of  unit  produciion  on  which  royalties  are  payable  beieunder  uhall  Ihoree 
be  adjusted  accordingly,  in  the  absence  or  production  in  paying  quantities  fmir.  a  unit,  or  upon  peimanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  (tie  unit  by  filing  of  rer 
a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  slating  the  dale  ot  termination.  Fouling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross  conveyance  of  Interests. 


7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  ihe  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in 
such  part  or  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  Interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  BO  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  lo  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  Ihe  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  Lime  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royafties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns,  if  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  bo  transferred,  ir  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  lo 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  there  under,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released. 
If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines, 
tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  eleclric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  oF  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in 
writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  lime  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material, 
water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  wealher  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  tease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from 
Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon 
expiration  of  this  lease.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered 
and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to 
purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and 
there  is  b  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable 
time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are 
situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or 
other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  teased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  lo  the  rights  of  the  party  to 
whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  Inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

17.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  In  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and 
may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms 
are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  Into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market 
conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or 
different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms 
which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 


By: 


STATE  OF  TE)CC\S 

county  of  rrc\rrdKTT 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


/This  instrumejit  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  . 


_day  of . 


,  2008, 


KISHA  G.  PACKER  POLK 
f  VWVyk'' |   Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Vp.^N.-lf/      My  Commission  Expires 
April  15,  2012 


 ^ —   • 

Notary  Public,  Slate  of  jf  yQJ 
Notary's  rjame  (printed): 
Notary'Sjtommission  expires; 


Ail 


STATE  OF  

COUNTY  OF  

This  inslrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  ,  2008, 

by:  


Notary  Public,  State  of  _ 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commies  ion  expires: 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 


DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$20.00 


D208261626 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MC 


