Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Jul  14  08:27  AM 

Fee:  $  20.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  2  Pages 


D208271806 


Suzanne  Henderson 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  the  9th  day  of  May,  2008.  between  .Joe  W.  Pennlnoer  and  Marv  H.  Penninoer.  Husband  and  Wife  Lessor 
(whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  3816  Delaware  Tri.  Fort  Worth  Tx.  76135-Z813.  and  xiu  t-nerav  Inc.,  wnose  address  is:  810 
Houston  St..  Fort  Worth.  Texas  761 02.  Lessee.  WITNESSETH:    — 

1 .  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants 
and  agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  for  the  purposes  and 
with  the  exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  for,  prodconq  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or 
not  similar  to  those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  fines,  estabish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or 
subsurface  disposal  of  salt  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and 
other  structures  on  said  land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and  transporting 
minerals  produced  from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land,"  is 
located  in  the  County  of  Tarrant  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

Being  0.35949  acres,  all  of  Blk  9  Lot  10  of  Lake  Worth  Heights  Addition  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Lake  Worth,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas  according  to  the  plat  thereof  recorded  In  Volume  388-23,  page  48,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas, 
including  streets,  easements  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described]  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land 
above  described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded 
instrument  or  (b)  as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by 
Lessee  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment 
hereunder,  said  land  shall  be  deemed  to  contain  0.35949  acres,  whether  actualy  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in 
any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and 
options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  "primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are 
conducted  upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  Its  wells, 
the  equal  23%  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the 
average  posted  market  price  of  such  23%  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Lessors  interest,  in 
either  case,  to  bear  23%  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced 
from  said  land  (1 )  when  sold  by  Lessee,  23%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee 
off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  23%of  such  gas  and 
casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value 
at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  f$1 .00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the 
expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion 
thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as 
though  operations  were  hei ng_cond uctedpn  said  laudator  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  leas©  may  be  continued  in  force 
as  it  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasohat>le~dligence  to"produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of 
being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shal  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well 
facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon 
terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety 
consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  Lessee 
shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee 
shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary 
this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the 
parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing, 
and  may  be  deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes 
in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to 
receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above 
specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect.  Any 
payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a 
depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in 
paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shallrest  exclusively  on  the  then 
owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this 
lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80 
surface  acres,  plus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be 
enlarged  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  640  surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more 
of  the  following:  (1)  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3) 
minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein 
permitted,  either  at  the  time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or 
operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled,  any  such  unit 
may  be  established  or  enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said 
option  as  to  each  desired  unit  by  executing  an  Instrument  ktentifyinq  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  In  which  this  lease  is 
recorded.  Such  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the  date  provided  tor  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments 
make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit  shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said 
options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or 
production  has  been  established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  Included  in  the  unit  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit 
established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold 
interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall 
be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated 
to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the 
unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the 
number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface 
acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  pjurposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty 

that 

production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  riot  have  the  effect  of  exchanging 
or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  {including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  between 
parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  mis  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right 
of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are 

all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  I 


operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force 
Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that 
effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from  such  unit.  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or 
enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the  original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument  of 
record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established 
hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shal  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts, 
no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the 
inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph 
4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with 
royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


Initial 


5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  drilling,  testing,  completing, 
reworking,  recomputing,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repainng  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil, 
gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in 
all  operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shal  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to 
draw  and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor. 
Lessee  shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of 
the  covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shall  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors, 
assigns,  and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof, 
howsoever  effected,  shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,,  but  not  limited  tol  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells 
and  the  measurement  of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  Knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its 
successors  or  assigns,  no  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the 
same,  howsoever  effected,  shalfbe  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to 
such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or 
division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly  certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  Tor  record  and  which  evidence 
such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court  records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of 
such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of  such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the 
owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender  such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository 
bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  Its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied.  Lessor  shall 
notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after 
receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  aDeged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice 
shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shal  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of 
sixty  (60)  days  after  service  ofsuch  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  sakf  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or 
any  of  the  alleged  breaches  shal  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  al  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this 
lease  is  canceled  tor  any  cause,  it  shal  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  suflkaent  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are 
operations  to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  alowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres), 
such  acreage  to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  weD,  or  in  such  shape  as  then 
existing  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such 
easements  on  said  land  as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing 
surface  facilities  necessary  or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shal  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  ri  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease 
(whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shal  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it 
without  regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herer  as  Lessor. 

11.  If,  white  this  tease  is  in  force,  at  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not 
occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  wejl(s)  and/or  well bore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wefts,  and  foral  purposes  erf  this  tease  th^  re-entry  arKfuse  by 

deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  snail  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and 
Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  tocation(s)  for  driling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other 
operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  otherteases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such  operations  conducted  at  a 
surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are 
associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  driling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith, 
shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any 
surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  tease,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

15.  It  is  the  desire  of  Lessee  to  obtain  from  Lessor  an  Option  to  Extend  the  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  two  years  from  the  expiration 
date  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease.  Lessee  may  exercise  their  Option  by  an  additional  payment  of  $3500  00  per  mineral  acre.  This  option  may 
be  exercised  by  written  notice  accompanied  by  check  payable  to  Lessor  representing  the  bonus  payment  stated  above,  on  or  before  the  expiration 
date  hereof.  If  Lessee  elects  not  to  exercise  this  option,  this  option  win  terminate  on  the  expiration  date  of  the  lease. 


16.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  this  lease  is  a  No  Surface  Occupancy  Lease. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


STATEOF   f-t^a  f  } 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


IH  day  of  A&y 


2008  by  Joe  W.  Penninger  and  MarvH. 


Seal: 


