<>■  Athabasca 
LI  University 


Commonwealth  of  Learning 

PERSPECTIVES  ON  OPEN  AND  DISTANCE  LEARNING 


Open  Educational 
Resources:  Innovation, 
Research  and  Practice 


Rory  McGreal,  Wanjira  Kinuthia  and  Stewart  Marshall 

Editors 


''V 

uni  Twin 


Athabasca 

University 


CANADA'S  OPEN  UNIVERSITY 


United  Nations  - UNESCO  Chaen 
fdueeboruW  Scientific  and  • Open  Educator*  Resource* 
Ciitural  Organ  ration  . 


Commonwealth  of  Learning 

PERSPECTIVES  ON  OPEN  AND  DISTANCE  LEARNING 


Open  Educational 
Resources:  Innovation, 
Research  and  Practice 


Rory  McGreal,  Wanjira  Kinuthia  and  Stewart  Marshall 

Editors 

Tim  McNamara 
Managing  Editor 


Published  by  Commonwealth  of  Learning  and  Athabasca  University,  Vancouver,  201 3 


Commonwealth  o/Learning 


The  Commonwealth  of  Learning  (COL)  is  an  intergovernmental  organisation 
created  by  Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  to  encourage  the  development 
and  sharing  of  open  learning  and  distance  education  knowledge,  resources  and 
technologies. 


© 2013  by  the  Commonwealth  of  Learning  and  Athabasca  University. 
PERSPECTIVES  ON  OPEN  AND  DISTANCE  LEARNING:  Open  Educational 
Resources:  Innovation,  Research  and  Practice  is  made  available  under  a Creative 
Commons  Attribution-ShareAlike  3.0  Licence  (international): 
http://creativecommons.Org/licences/by-sa/3.0. 

For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  by  applying  this  licence  the  Commonwealth  of 
Learning  and  Athabasca  University  do  not  waive  any  privileges  or  immunities  from 
claims  that  they  may  be  entitled  to  assert,  nor  do  the  Commonwealth  of  Learning 
and  Athabasca  University  submit  themselves  to  the  jurisdiction,  courts,  legal 
processes  or  laws  of  any  jurisdiction. 

PERSPECTIVES  ON  OPEN  AND  DISTANCE  LEARNING:  Open  Educational 
Resources:  Innovation,  Research  and  Practice 

Rory  McGreal,  Wanjira  Kinuthia  and  Stewart  Marshall,  Editors 
Tim  McNamara,  Managing  Editor 

ISBN  978-1-894975-62-9 
Published  by: 


CANADAS  OPEN  UNIVERSITY 


^■1  Athabasca 
A^M  University 


United  Nat-ons  - UNESCO  Cher  in 
Educational.  Scientific  and  • Open  Educational  Resources 
Ciiturai  Organization  • 


COMMONWEALTH  OF  LEARNING 


UNESCO/COL  CHAIR  IN  OER 

Technology  Enhanced  Knowledge 
Research  Institute 
Athabasca  University 
Peace  Hills  Trust  Tower 
1200,  10011  - 109  Street 
Edmonton,  Alberta 
Canada  T5J  3S8 
Telephone:  +1  855  807-0756 


1055  West  Hastings,  Suite  1200 
Vancouver,  British  Columbia 
Canada  V6E  2E9 
Telephone:  +1  604  775  8200 
Fax:  +1  604  775  8210 


Web:  www.col.org 
E-mail:  info@col.org 


(toll  free  in  Canada  & USA) 

+1  780  235-0901 

(international) 


Web:  tekri.athabascau.ca 
E-mail:  rory@athabascau.ca 


With  support  from: 


/llberfa 


Athabasca  University  INNOVATION.CA 


Advanced  Eduutior 
ind  Tt-mrolog> 


E S S5 


Contents 


Foreword v 

Contributors vii 

Acknowledgements xiii 

Introduction:  The  Need  for  Open  Educational  Resources xv 

Rory  McGreal,  Athabasca  University 

PART  I:  OER  in  Academia 

Introduction 3 

Chapter  1 

Massive  Open  Online  Courses:  Innovation  in  Education? 5 

George  Siemens,  Athabasca  University 

Chapter  2 

Academic  Knowledge  Mobilisation  to  Promote 

Cultural  Change  Towards  Openness  in  Education 17 

Jose  Vladimir  Burgos  Aguilar  and  Maria  Soledad  Ramirez  Montoya, 

Tecnoldgico  de  Monterrey 

Chapter  3 

365  Days  of  Openness:  The  Emergence  of  OER 

at  the  University  of  Cape  Town 33 

Cheryl  Hodgkinson-Williams,  Michael  Paskevicius,  Glenda  Cox, 

Shihaam  Shaikh,  Laura  Czerniewicz  and  Samantha  Lee-Pan, 

University  of  Cape  Town 

Chapter  4 

Open  Educational  Resources  University: 

An  Assessment  and  Credit  for  Students  Initiative 47 

Rory  McGreal,  Athabasca  University 
Wayne  Mackintosh,  OER  Foundation 
Jim  Taylor,  University  of  Southern  Queensland 

PART  II:  OER  in  Practice 

Introduction 63 

Chapter  5 

Open  Education  Research:  From  the  Practical  to  the  Theoretical 65 

Patrick  McAndrew  and  Robert  Farrow,  Open  University  UK 

Chapter  6 

Realising  the  Open  in  Open  Educational  Resources: 

Practical  Concerns  and  Solutions 79 

Norm  Friesen,  Thompson  Rivers  University 

Chapter  7 

Approaches  to  the  Production  and  Use  of  OERs: 

The  African  Virtual  University  Experience 91 

Bakary  Diallo,  Catherine  Wangeci  Thuo  (Kariuki)  and 
Clayton  R.  Wright,  African  Virtual  University 


Chapter  8 

Sharing  of  Open  Science  Education  Resources  and 

Educational  Practices  in  Europe 105 

Demetrios  G.  Sampson  and  Panagiotis  Zervas, 

University  of  Piraeus 

Sofoklis  Sotiriou,  Ellinogermaniki  Agogi 

PART  III:  Diffusing  OER 

Introduction 125 

Chapter  9 

Open  Educational  Resources:  Access  to  Knowledge  — 

A Personal  Reflection 127 

Susan  D’ Antoni,  Athabasca  University 

Chapter  1 0 

How  OER  Support  Lifelong  Learning 141 

Andy  Lane,  Open  University  UK 

Chapter  1 1 

An  Open  “Materials”  Repository  and  Global  Search  System: 

Preparing  for  Diverse  Learners  and  a Variety  of  Learning  Processes 153 

Tsuneo  Yamada,  Open  University  of  Japan 

Chapter  1 2 

Wikiwijs:  Using  OER  as  a Driver  for  Maturation 165 

Robert  Schuwer,  Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands 

Part  IV:  Producing,  Sharing  and  Using  OER 

Introduction 175 

Chapter  1 3 

Why  Teachers  Share  Educational  Resources: 

ASocial  Exchange  Perspective 177 

Frederik  Van  Acker,  Hans  van  Buuren,  Karel  Kreijns  and 
Marjan  Vermeulen,  Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands 

Chapter  14 

Can  Open  Educational  Resources  Thrive  in  Closed  Educational 

Systems?  Some  Reflections  on  OER  in  Developing  Countries 193 

Abdurrahman  Umar,  Balasubramanian  Kodhandaraman  and 
Asha  Kanwar,  Commonwealth  of  Learning 

Chapter  1 5 

The  Role  of  Open  Educational  Resources  in  Personal  Learning 207 

Stephen  Downes,  National  Research  Council  of  Canada 

Chapter  1 6 

Towards  a Sustainable  Inter-Institutional  Collaborative 

Framework  for  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER) 223 

Dick  Ng’ambi,  University  of  Cape  Town 
Airong  Luo,  University  of  Michigan 


IV 


Foreword 


Since  the  UNESCO  Paris  Declaration  on  OER  adopted  by  the  global  community 
in  June  2012,  there  have  been  a number  of  developments,  and  the  key  question  is 
no  longer  about  the  “how"  of  OER  development.  We  are  no  longer  talking  about 
authoring  tools  or  distribution  systems.  It  is  more  about  realising  the  value  to 
be  derived  from  OER.  This  involves  defining  an  OER  value  chain  that  will  help 
stakeholders  identify  the  various  sub-systems  in  the  chain  that  link  the  individual 
teacher’s  or  learner’s  contribution  relating  to  OER  use,  to  bigger  initiatives  such 
as  good-quality  open  textbooks  or  Massive  Open  Online  Courses  (MOOCs) 
which  could  lead  to  viable  academic  qualifications  and  credentials  involving 
institutions. 

The  development  and  exchange  of  OER  continues  to  be  a technologically 
intensive  process.  Technological  considerations  in  OER  are  not  limited  to 
authoring  or  remixing  tools.  Collaborative  production  of  OER  requires  well- 
designed  and  robust  online  spaces  and  infrastructure  (Wikiwijs)  and  repositories. 
The  latter  can  also  be  used  to  combine  OER  to  create  lesson  plans  online  (Open 
Science  Education  Resources  in  Europe).  Unless  OER  are  consistently  and 
adequately  described,  they  cannot  easily  be  located  in  online  searches.  The 
chapter  on  GLOBE  considers  these  challenges  and  offers  solutions.  COL’s  earlier 
publications  on  OER  offered  insights  and  advice  on  good  institutional  practices, 
business  models  and  policy  matters. 

However,  the  social  dimension  emerges  as  an  important  factor  from  a number 
of  chapters  in  this  book.  The  study  on  OpenLearn  shows  that  when  OER  are 
taken  directly  from  formal  courses,  the  biggest  impact  is  on  the  formation  of 
communities  of  learners  around  the  OER.  This  is  similar  to  the  conclusion  of 
the  chapter  on  OER  for  Lifelong  Learning,  both  reflecting  the  experience  of  the 
UK’s  Open  University.  The  African  Virtual  University  (AVU)  chapter  reveals 
the  importance  of  the  formation  of  a consortium  of  OER  producers  across 
institutions  and  countries.  This  process  requires  subtle  yet  intensive  facilitation 
for  its  sustenance  and  is  important  for  the  quality  assurance  of  OER.  The  detailed 
analysis  of  the  experience  of  the  African  Health  OER  Network  also  points  to  the 
viability  of  viewing  OER  as  a social  practice. 

In  two  different  chapters  that  focus  on  MOOCs  (contributed  by  the  global 
pioneers  of  MOOCs),  what  emerges  is  that  even  if  the  teachers  do  not  use  OER, 
the  learners  draw  upon  OER  through  their  own  social  space  and  networks.  The 
chapter  based  on  COL’s  experience  reveals  that  the  existing  hierarchies  and 
power  relationships  in  many  developing  country  institutions  do  not  allow  for 
the  decentralisation  that  fosters  and  encourages  the  use  of  OER.  The  experience 
of  the  Open  University  in  the  Netherlands  reveals  the  significant  role  of  trust  in 
encouraging  the  increased  use  and  sharing  of  OER. 


v 


The  chapter  on  OERu  identifies  more  fully  all  the  linkages  and  sub-systems  in 
the  OER  value  chain.  It  also  shows  the  importance  of  how  trust-based  interactions 
among  institutions  can  advance  the  value  of  OER  for  a wide  range  of  stakeholders. 
Thus,  it  is  not  just  lack  of  policy  that  can  hold  back  OER  development  and  re-use,  but 
an  inadequate  appreciation  of  the  social  aspects  as  well.  Chapters  on  OER  in  academia 
(Mexico  and  South  Africa)  show  the  importance  of  blending  bottom-up  processes 
of  OER  generation  and  exchange  among  faculty  with  top-down  policy  support.  It  is 
significant  that  this  book  combines  the  technology  aspects  with  social  values  and 
the  impact  that  these  have  on  the  users  and  creators  of  OER. 

Licensing  considerations  are  inseparable  from  discussions  of  OER  and  are  taken 
up  in  a separate  chapter.  This  book  of  research  articles  about  OER  is  itself  an 
OER,  as  are  the  individual  chapters,  all  available  under  a Creative  Commons  3.0 
attribution  Share-Alike  licence.  Published  by  COL,  the  book  is  produced  as  part 
of  the  work  plan  of  the  UNESCO/COL  Chair,  which  was  granted  to  Athabasca 
University  and  is  led  by  Professor  Rory  McGreal,  one  of  the  editors.  The  other 
editors,  Dr.  Wanjira  Kinuthia  and  Emeritus  Professor  Stewart  Marshall,  are  part  of 
the  international  group  of  UNESCO/COL  Chair  partners. 

Contributions  in  this  volume  provide  insights,  experience-based  case  studies 
and  analyses  which  will  help  readers  grasp  the  essential  contours  of  the  OER 
value  chain.  COL's  OER  publications  in  the  last  two  years  provide  the  most 
comprehensive  view  of  the  various  sub-systems  and  linkages  in  the  non-U.S. 
milieu,  and  this  book  is  yet  another  contribution  in  that  direction. 

The  individual  book  chapters  are  included  in  the  OER  Knowledge  Cloud 
(oerknowledgecloud.org),  which  is  a Web  repository  of  more  than  400  research 
papers  and  reports  on  OER.  This  Knowledge  Cloud  provides  researchers  with  free 
and  easy  access  to  the  OER  research  knowledge  base,  including  refereed  papers, 
presentations,  dissertations,  reports  and  other  OER-related  publications.  The 
cloud  has  been  created  at  Athabasca  University  as  part  of  the  international  Chair 
work  plan.  The  rationale  for  this  is  the  growing  need  for  a substantial  expansion 
of  the  OER  research  base  that  can  provide  researchers  with  the  means  to  explore 
new  knowledge  about  OER.  It  is  hoped  that  this  book,  along  with  the  OER 
Knowledge  Cloud,  can  provide  a solid  foundation  supporting  the  introduction 
and  implementation  of  OER  innovations,  increasing  the  research  evidence  and 
providing  guidance  for  OER  in  practice. 

Given  COL’s  commitment  to  implementing  the  recommendations  of  the 
Paris  OER  Declaration,  COL  will  continue  its  advocacy  efforts,  encourage  the 
development  of  policy,  support  capacity  building  and  promote  OER  research. 
Some  of  the  key  global  leaders  in  the  OER  movement  have  shared  their  valuable 
experiences  and  insights  along  all  these  dimensions  in  this  book,  which  I most 
heartily  commend  to  you. 

Professor  Asha  Kanwar 
President  & Chief  Executive  Officer 
Commonwealth  of  Learning 


vi 


Contributors 


Jose  Vladimir  Burgos  Aguilar  is  Open  Content  Coordinator  and  Liaison  Officer 
of  Innovation  and  Educational  Technology  at  the  Innov@TE  Center,  Center 
for  Innovation  in  Technology  and  Education  at  the  Virtual  University  of  the 
Tecnologico  de  Monterrey.  He  is  also  project  manager  of  OCW  Tecnologico  de 
Monterrey  and  temoa.info  (Knowledge  Hub/OER  search  engine). 

Glenda  Cox  is  a lecturer  at  the  Centre  for  Educational  Technology,  University 
of  Cape  Town.  She  focuses  on  curriculum  projects,  teaching  with  technology, 
innovation  grants,  OER  (Open  Educational  Resources)  and  staff  development. 

Laura  Czerniewicz  is  Director  of  the  Centre  for  Educational  Technology  at  the 
University  of  Cape  Town.  She  is  the  research  leader  on  a project  on  students' 
technological  habitus  use  in  higher  education  institutions  in  South  Africa.  She  is 
also  researching:  the  emergent  knowledge  domain  of  the  field;  mobile  learning; 
the  digital  divide  and  ICTs;  and  scholarly  communication. 

Susan  D’Antoni  is  Advisor  to  the  President  for  International  OER  (Open 
Educational  Resources)  Initiatives  at  Athabasca  University  and  is  associated  with 
the  UNESCO/COL  Chair  in  OER.  The  focus  of  her  current  work  is  a collaborative 
global  mapping  of  institutional  OER  initiatives  to  promote  communication, 
connection  and  collaboration  in  the  global  OER  movement.  Susan  worked  as 
a consultant  at  the  International  Association  of  Universities,  and  then  at  the 
UNESCO  International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning  (IIEP)  and  Education 
Division  as  Programme  Specialist.  She  has  been  a leader  in  the  OER  movement 
since  the  term  was  first  coined. 

Bakary  Diallo  is  the  CEO/Rector  of  the  African  Virtual  University  (AVU),  an 
intergovernmental  organisation  based  in  Nairobi,  Kenya,  which  specialises  in 
open  distance  and  electronic  learning.  Prior  to  joining  the  AVU,  he  worked  at 
the  University  of  Ottawa  as  a part-time  lecturer  at  the  Faculty  of  Education,  and 
as  a consultant  of  integration  of  ICT  in  education  at  the  Center  for  University 
Teaching.  He  also  taught  at  the  secondary  level  in  Senegal.  His  latest  research 
activities  focus  on  the  use  of  ICT  in  higher  educational  institutions. 

Stephen  Downes  is  a researcher  at  the  National  Research  Council  of  Canada.  He 
is  a designer  and  commentator  in  the  fields  of  online  learning  and  new  media. 
Stephen  has  explored  and  promoted  the  educational  use  of  computer  and  online 
technologies  since  1995  and  was  one  of  the  originators  of  the  first  Massive  Open 
Online  Course.  He  is  known  for  his  blog,  “Stephen's  Web,”  which  is  followed  by 
many  eLearning  specialists. 


VII 


Robert  Farrow  is  a research  associate  at  the  Institute  of  Educational  Technology  of  the 
Open  University  UK.  He  has  developed  expertise  in  accessibility,  evaluation,  mobile 
learning,  use  of  technology  to  support  research  communities,  and  open  learning. 

Norm  Friesen  is  Canada  Research  Chair  in  E-Learning  Practices  at  Thompson 
Rivers  University  in  Kamloops,  British  Columbia,  Canada.  He  has  been  leading  the 
CanCore  Learning  object  metadata  initiative.  He  is  also  a member  of  the  Canadian 
delegation  to  the  ISO/IEC  JTC1  subcommittee  36,  for  Learning,  Education  and 
Training.  His  research  interests  include  media  theory,  alternative  pedagogies, 
technical  eLearning  standardisation,  phenomenology  and  ethnomethodology. 

Cheryl  Hodgkinson- Williams  is  an  Associate  Professor  of  information 
communication  technologies  (ICT)  in  education  at  the  University  of  Cape  Town 
(UCT).  She  is  the  co-ordinator  of  the  Mellon  Scholarship  programme,  which 
sponsors  colleagues  from  higher  education  institutions  in  Africa  to  attend  a 
postgraduate  programme  in  ICT  in  Education  at  UCT.  Cheryl  is  also  a lecturer  on 
the  MEd  ICT  in  Education  programme. 

Asha  Kanwar  is  the  President  and  CEO  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Learning. 

She  was  the  Vice-President  and  Programme  Director  before  that.  Previously,  she 
was  a consultant  in  open  and  distance  learning  at  UNESCO’s  Regional  Office  for 
Education  in  Africa  (BREDA)  in  Dakar,  Senegal.  Her  engagement  with  distance 
education  began  when  she  joined  Indira  Gandhi  National  Open  University 
(IGNOU),  where  she  served  as  Professor,  Director  of  the  School  of  Humanities  and 
Pro-Vice  Chancellor. 

Wanjira  Kinuthia,  PhD,  is  Associate  Professor  of  Learning  Technologies  at 
Georgia  State  University.  Prior  to  that,  she  worked  as  an  instructional  designer  in 
higher  education  and  business  and  industry  for  several  years.  Wanjira  has  a special 
interest  in  international  and  comparative  education.  Her  research  focuses  on 
educational  technology  in  developing  countries,  including  the  role  of  OER  (Open 
Educational  Resources)  and  sociocultural  perspectives  of  instructional  design  and 
technology.  She  is  co-editor  of  the  book  series  Educational  Design  and  Technology  in 
the  Knowledge  Society. 

Balasubramanian  Kodhandaraman  is  an  education  specialist  at  the 
Commonwealth  of  Learning  (COL),  working  in  the  area  of  agriculture  and 
livelihood.  He  is  focusing  on  the  Lifelong  Learning  for  Farmers  initiative  in  various 
Commonwealth  countries,  with  emphasis  on  non-formal  and  informal  learning. 

Karel  Kreijns  is  at  the  Technical  University  Eindhoven.  He  has  worked  at  the  Open 
Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands,  where  he  collaborated  with  colleagues  in  the 
Educational  Technology  field. 

Andy  Lane  is  a Professor  of  Environmental  Systems  at  the  Open  University  UK, 
and  was  formerly  director  of  the  OpenLearn  initiative  for  free  and  OER  (Open 
Educational  Resources)  for  learners  and  educators.  He  is  a former  dean  and 
director  of  studies  of  the  Faculty  of  Technology.  He  is  interested  in  how  people 
understand  and  use  technologies  for  environmental  resource  management  and 
open  education  and,  particularly,  in  how  systems  thinking  can  be  used  to  improve 
environmental  decision-making  and  social  learning. 


viii 


Samantha  Lee-Pan  is  a graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Cape  Town  and 
an  OER  (Open  Educational  Resources)  project  administrator  in  the  Educational 
Development  Unit  of  the  Faculty  of  Health  Sciences. 

Airong  Luo  is  a researcher  at  the  Office  of  Learning  Technologies  at  the  University 
of  Michigan  Medical  School.  Her  work  focuses  on  OER  (Open  Educational 
Resources)  and  understanding  how  to  build  a sustainable  model  for  OER. 

Wayne  Mackintosh  is  a UNESCO/Commonwealth  of  Learning  Chair  in  OER 
(Open  Educational  Resources)  and  the  founding  Director  of  the  OER  Foundation 
and  the  International  Centre  for  Open  Education  based  at  Otago  Polytechnic, 

New  Zealand.  He  also  serves  as  a member  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  OER 
Foundation  and  is  a leader  in  the  formation  of  the  OERu  (OER  university) 
initiative.  He  was  previously  Education  Specialist  for  eLearning  and  ICT  Policy  at 
the  Commonwealth  of  Learning. 

Stewart  Marshall,  PhD,  is  an  Emeritus  Professor  at  the  University  of  the  West  Indies 
Open  Campus  and  also  Founding  and  Managing  Editor  of  the  International  Journal 
of  Education  and  Development  Using  Information  and  Communication  Technology 
(IJEDICT)  (http://ijedict.dec.uwi.edu/).  Previously,  he  was  Director  of  Special 
Initiatives  in  the  Office  of  the  Principal  of  the  University  of  the  West  Indies  Open 
Campus  and  UNESCO  Chair  in  Educational  Technologies.  Professor  Marshall  has 
worked  in  higher  education  since  1973.  He  has  held  senior  management  positions  in 
universities  in  the  UK,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Australia,  Swaziland  and  the  Caribbean. 
He  has  over  100  publications,  including  book  chapters,  refereed  articles  and 
conference  papers,  an  encyclopedia  and  several  books. 

Patrick  McAndrew  is  a professor  of  Open  Education  at  the  Institute  of 
Educational  Technology  of  the  Open  University  UK.  He  directed  the  research  and 
evaluation  within  OpenLearn  and  he  is  the  Programme  Lead  for  the  Learning  in 
an  Open  World  research  area.  Previously,  he  worked  at  Heriot-Watt  University 
where  he  was  Manager  of  the  Institute  for  Computer  Based  Learning  within  the 
Learning  Technology  Centre. 

Rory  McGreal  is  a UNESCO/Commonwealth  of  Learning  Chair  in  OER  (Open 
Educational  Resources)  and  Director  of  the  Technology  Enhanced  Knowledge 
Research  Institute  (TEKRI)  at  Athabasca  University  (AU),  Canada's  open  university, 
based  in  Alberta,  Canada.  He  is  also  a professor  of  Computer  Technologies  in 
Education  He  was  previously  the  Associate  Vice-President  Research  at  AU.  Prior 
to  that,  he  was  a supervisor  at  Contact  North,  a distance  education  network  in 
Northern  Ontario.  He  has  also  worked  abroad  in  the  Middle  East,  Seychelles 
(Indian  Ocean)  and  Europe.  He  has  been  honoured  with  the  Wedemeyer  Award 
for  Distance  Education  practitioner.  He  researches  the  implementation  and 
management  of  distance  education  systems  and  networks  from  technological, 
pedagogical  and  policy  perspectives.  His  present  research  interests  include 
the  use  of  OER  and  standards  in  technology-assisted  learning,  particularly  in 
the  development/application  of  learning  objects  on  mobile  devices  and  the 
assessment  and  accreditation  of  informal  learners. 

Maria  Soledad  Ramirez  Montoya  is  Director  of  the  Research  Chair  in  the 
Group  of  Innovation  in  Technology  and  Education  in  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey 


IX 


(ITESM).  She  majored  in  Elementary  Education,  earning  a BSc  in  Education  in  the 
Technological  Institute  of  Sonora  in  Mexico;  and  then  graduating  in  Educational 
Technology  with  a PhD  in  Education  and  Educational  Psychology:  Curriculum 
and  Instruction  at  the  University  of  Salamanca  (Spain),  where  she  is  currently  a 
professor  at  the  Graduate  School  of  Education. 

Dick  Ng’ambi  is  the  Masters  Programme  Convenor  in  the  Centre  for  Educational 
Technology  at  the  University  of  Cape  Town.  Before  that,  Dick  worked  in  higher 
education  as  an  educator  in  Zambia,  Lesotho  and  South  Africa.  His  research 
interests  include  anonymous  knowledge  sharing,  use  of  mobile  technology,  and 
podcasting. 

Michael  Paskevicius  is  an  educational  technologist  in  the  Centre  for  Educational 
Technology  at  the  University  of  Cape  Town.  Originally  from  Canada,  he  arrived 
in  South  Africa  via  Namibia  after  being  awarded  a Commonwealth  of  Learning 
International  Internship  in  2005. 

Demetrios  G.  Sampson  is  an  Associate  Professor  of  eLearning  at  the  Department 
of  Digital  Systems,  University  of  Piraeus,  Greece;  founder  and  Director  of  the 
Advanced  Digital  Systems  and  Services  for  Education  and  Learning  (ASK)  Research 
Laboratory;  and  Senior  Researcher  at  the  Informatics  and  Telematics  Institute  (ITI) 
in  the  Center  of  Research  and  Technology  Hellas  (CERTH). 

Robert  Schuwer  is  Associate  Professor  at  the  Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands 
and  the  project  leader  for  the  OpenER  project,  which  was  the  first  OER  (Open 
Educational  Resources)  project  in  that  country.  Currently,  he  is  a project  leader 
in  the  Wikiwijs  programme.  He  is  chairman  of  the  Special  Interest  Group  OER 
for  Higher  Education,  established  by  SURF,  and  chairman  of  the  Nominating 
Committee  of  the  OpenCourseWare  Consortium. 

Shihaam  Shaikh  is  a project  manager  for  the  Open  UCT  initiative  at  the 
University  of  Cape  Town.  She  is  also  the  legal  advisor  for  copyright  and  related 
intellectual  property  (IP)  issues. 

George  Siemens  is  an  Assistant  Professor  at  the  Centre  for  Distance  Education  at 
Athabasca  University.  He  is  the  organiser  of  one  of  the  first  Massive  Open  Online 
Courses  (MOOCs)  with  Stephen  Downes.  He  is  the  author  of  Knowing  Knowledge, 
an  exploration  of  how  the  context  and  characteristics  of  knowledge  have  changed, 
and  of  the  Handbook  of  Emerging  Technologies  for  Learning.  Siemens  is  also  the 
Associate  Director  of  the  Technology  Enhanced  Knowledge  Research  Institute 
(TEKRI)  at  Athabasca  University. 

Sofoklis  Sotiriou  has  worked  at  CERN,  at  the  National  Center  for  Scientific 
Research  “Demokritos”  in  Athens,  and  in  the  Physics  Laboratory  of  Athens 
University.  He  holds  a PhD  in  Astrophysics  and  a PhD  in  Technology  Enhanced 
Science  Education.  He  is  the  Head  of  the  R&D  Department  of  Ellinogermaniki 
Agogi,  where  he  has  been  active  in  the  co-ordination  and  development  of  research 
projects  on  the  implementation  of  advanced  science  education  and  training. 

Jim  Taylor  is  a retired  professor  and  former  Deputy  Vice-Chancellor  (Global 
Learning  Services)  at  the  University  of  Southern  Queensland.  He  is  on  the  Board 


x 


of  the  OER  Foundation,  and  is  a leader  in  the  development  of  the  OERu  (OER 
university)  initiative. 

Abdurrahman  Umar  is  an  Education  Specialist,  Teacher  Education  at  the 
Commonwealth  of  Learning.  Previously,  he  was  the  Director  of  Academic  Services 
at  the  National  Teachers’  Institute  in  Kaduna,  Nigeria.  Tie  was  in  charge  of 
Programme  Design  and  Development  and  Examinations  at  the  institute.  He  also 
served  as  the  Director  of  Programme  Development  and  Extension  at  the  National 
Commission  for  Nomadic  Education  in  Kaduna. 

Frederik  Van  Acker  is  an  Associate  Professor  at  the  Open  Universiteit  in  the 
Netherlands,  where  he  is  Head  of  the  Research  Methods  and  Statistics  department 
in  the  Psychology  faculty. 

Hans  van  Buuren  is  an  Associate  Professor  in  the  Psychology  faculty  of  the  Open 
Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands.  He  is  interested  in  educational  statistics  and 
research  methods. 

Mar j an  Vermeulen  is  a part-time  Associate  Professor  at  RdMC,  a centre  for  the 
professionalisation  of  teachers  at  the  Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands.  She  is 
also  a knowledge  manager  at  the  KPCgroep,  an  institute  that  offers  advisory  and 
research  services  to  organisations  in  the  field  of  education. 

Catherine  Wangeci  Thuo  (Kariuki)  is  the  Manager,  Projects  and  Business  Services 
at  the  African  Virtual  University,  where  she  is  an  education  specialist.  Prior  to 
her  current  position,  she  was  the  Project  Manager  of  the  AfDB/UNDP-funded 
Multinational  Education  Project. 

Clayton  R.  Wright  is  an  educational  technology  consultant  best  known  for 
his  leadership  in  instructional  design  and  for  his  list  of  educational  technology 
conferences.  He  was  previously  an  instructor  at  Grant  McEwan  Community 
College  in  Edmonton,  Alberta,  Canada. 

Tsuneo  Yamada  is  a Professor  at  the  Department  of  International  Collaboration 
in  the  Center  for  ICT  and  Distance  Education  (CODE)  at  the  Open  University  of 
Japan  (OUJ);  and  an  Adjunct  Professor  and  the  Chair  of  the  Department  of  Cyber 
Society  and  Culture,  the  Graduate  University  for  Advanced  Studies.  His  main 
research  fields  are  educational  technology,  learning  psychology,  and  second 
language  learning.  His  current  interests  are  in  the  development  and  evaluation 
of  learning  objects,  strategies  for  their  sharing  and  distribution,  and  their  quality 
assurance. 

Panagiotis  Zervas  received  a Diploma  in  Electronics  and  Computer 
Engineering  from  the  Technical  University  of  Crete,  Greece,  in  2002  and 
an  MSc  in  Computational  Science  from  the  Department  of  Informatics  and 
Telecommunications  at  the  National  and  Kapodistrian  University  of  Athens, 
Greece,  in  2004. 


XI 


Acknowledgements 


The  editors  would  like  to  express  their  thanks  to  the  following  people  who  have 
made  this  work  possible: 

• Susan  D'Antoni,  whose  efforts  have  been  crucial  in  the  early  development  of 
the  OER  movement  and  who  convinced  UNESCO  of  the  importance  of  an 
OER  Chair  programme 

• Jos  Rikers,  who  has  been  a principal  organiser  of  the  OER  Chair  initiatives 

• Tim  McNamara,  the  managing  editor,  whose  efforts  have  been  critical  in 
bringing  the  book  to  completion 

Sponsors,  whose  grants  have  helped  in  the  realisation  of  this  book,  include: 
the  Ministry  of  Advanced  Education  and  Technology  of  Alberta,  Canada;  the 
Canadian  Foundation  for  Innovation;  the  William  and  Flora  Elewlett  Foundation; 
and  the  Technology  Enhanced  Knowledge  Research  Institute  (TEKRI)  at 
Athabasca  University. 


xiii 


Introduction: 

The  Need  for  Open  Educational 
Resources 


Rory  McGreal, 
Athabasca  University 


Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  are  important  learning  materials  with  the 
potential  to  facilitate  the  expansion  of  learning  worldwide.  The  flexibility,  both 
technological  and  legal,  afforded  by  openly  licensed  content  is  an  important  pre- 
condition for  supporting  the  educational  use  of  content.  Open  standards  support 
the  deployment  of  learning  objects  as  OER  on  a wide  variety  of  different  devices, 
whether  mobile,  on  the  desktop  or  in  print.  The  open  licence  frees  instructors  and 
learners  from  concerns  about  permissions,  as  well  as  about  how,  when,  where  and 
how  long  the  content,  video,  audio  or  application  can  be  used. 

The  UNESCO  Paris  Declaration  on  OER  (2012)  begins  with  the  premise  that 
“everyone  has  the  right  to  education,”  referring  to  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  other  international  recommendations  and  agreements. 

The  participating  countries  support  the  OER  movement,  encouraging  OER 
development  and  adaptation,  research  and,  especially,  the  open  licensing  of  all 
government-sponsored  publications. 

This  book  project  was  initiated  by  the  UNESCO  Chairs  in  OER  in  support  of  these 
principles. 


OER  Theory 

It  is  impossible  to  pin  down  any  one  theory  that  best  fits  the  OER  movement  other 
than  the  principle  of  openness  in  education.  This  includes,  at  the  forefront,  the 
principle  of  accessibility  — opening  educational  resources  so  that  anyone  can 
access  and  learn  from  these  resources  at  no  cost.  The  Cape  Town  Declaration 
(2007)  states: 

“Educators  worldwide  are  developing  a vast  pool  of  educational 
resources  on  the  Internet,  open  and  free  for  all  to  use.  These  educators 
are  creating  a world  where  each  and  every  person  on  earth  can  access 


xv 


and  contribute  to  the  sum  of  all  human  knowledge.  They  are  also 
planting  the  seeds  of  a new  pedagogy  where  educators  and  learners 
create,  shape  and  evolve  knowledge  together,  deepening  their  skills 
and  understanding  as  they  go.” 

The  use  of  OER  is  not  confined  to  eLearning  contexts  or  distance  education. 
Although  they  are  for  the  most  part  born  digital,  many  if  not  most  OER  can  also 
be  printed  out  and  used  in  analogue  contexts.  Most  OER  are  technologically 
neutral  in  that  they  can  theoretically  be  reformatted  or  refitted  for  use  in  any 
platform  or  in  any  learning  management  system  or  application.  OER  can  be  used 
online  or  in  traditional  classrooms,  or  in  blended  or  flexible  learning  contexts. 
This  includes  a focus  on  the  importance  of  interoperability  for  both  learners  and 
instructors,  in  their  free  re-use  or  repurposing  of  the  resource,  including  mixing 
and  mashing.  Interoperability  of  the  resources  in  different  contexts  is  a pre- 
condition for  useful  OER. 

There  is  no  single  paradigm  associated  with  OER,  nor  are  there  any  preconceived 
approaches  to  learning  that  limit  the  generalisability  of  OER.  On  the  other  hand, 
individual  OER  can  be  specifically  designed  to  support  particular  theories  of 
learning,  whether  that  is  behaviourist,  constructivist,  connectivist  or  something 
else.  The  OER  concept  can  accommodate  a wide  range  of  theories.  In  addition  to 
openness,  eclecticism  may  be  the  theory  most  nearly  associated  with  the  OER 
movement.  Educators  using  OER  can  draw  on  multiple  theories,  mixing  and 
mashing  them  to  fit  what  they  feel  is  reasonable  given  their  particular  context. 
Pragmatism  that  links  practice  and  theory  in  order  to  improve  both  can  also  be  an 
important  theory  associated  with  OER.  Pragmatists  consider  the  practical  effects 
of  using  OER  and  base  their  decisions  on  these. 

Diffusion  theory  (Rogers  1995)  has  also  been  used  to  describe  the  rate  of 
adaptation  of  OER  among  educators  and  in  informal  learning  contexts,  but  it  is 
not  all-encompassing.  In  fact,  it  is  a bricolage  of  many  theories  bunched  together 
by  the  researcher  ( bricoleur ).  Complexity  theory  also  has  its  place  as  researchers 
investigate  how  OER  have  been  formed  through  self-organising  and  emergent 
methods  and  interactions  (Tim  McNamara,  unpublished  thesis). 

So,  OER,  as  freely  available  learning  objects  encapsulating  learning  resources, 
are  pedagogically  neutral  and,  as  a concept,  can  lend  themselves  to  any  learning 
theory.  OER  proponents  in  different  theoretical  “camps”  of  learning,  such  as 
constructivist,  connectivist  or  behaviourist,  can  design  their  OER  either  to 
support  their  theories  uniquely  or  to  be  more  generalisable  in  a wider  variety  of 
learning  contexts.  Likewise,  educators  can  make  effective  use  of  OER  according 
to  their  theoretical  approach,  which  could  be  easier  or  more  problematic 
depending  on  the  theoretical  perspective  that  is  embedded  in  the  OER.  There  is 
no  one  theoretical  camp  that  can  claim  ownership  of  OER  from  a pedagogical 
perspective.  Independent  learning  is  often  connected  to  OER,  but  OER  are  also 
used  in  classroom,  blended  learning  and  distance  education  environments.  Panke 
and  Seufert  (2012)  noted  that  there  is  “no  one-size-fits-all  theory  that  allows  us  to 
understand  all  aspects  of  the  learner’s  use  of  OER.” 

Bateman  et  al.  (2012)  highlight  the  need  for  more  than  researchers’  anecdotal 
information,  supporting  a critical  analysis  of  OER  issues.  They  support  the 
development  of  OER  policies  and  strategies  to:  increase  access  to  educational 


XVI 


programmes;  build  capacity  among  educators,  including  appropriate  ICT 
infrastructure;  design  quality  assurance  frameworks;  and  develop  cost-effective 
strategies  and  business  models.  The  collection  of  chapters  in  this  book  addresses 
this  need  through  analyses,  case  studies,  theoretical  analyses  and  personal 
reflections. 

OER  also  aim  to  be  technology  neutral  and  various  standards  are  proposed  to 
support  their  interoperability  (e.g.,  IMS  Common  Cartridge,  SCORM,  IEEE  LOM). 
This  represents  more  of  an  ideal  than  the  reality,  as  OER  creators  continue  to 
create  content  in  a wide  variety  of  formats,  many  of  which  do  not  lend  themselves 
to  easy  interoperability. 


OER  Definitions 

Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  aim  to  promote  open  access  to  digital 
educational  resources  “that  are  available  online  for  everyone  at  a global  level” 
(Caswell  et  al.  2008).  The  term  was  introduced  by  UNESCO  (2002),  which  defined 
OER  as  the  “technology-enabled,  open  provision  of  educational  resources  for 
consultation,  use  and  adaptation  by  a community  of  users  for  non-commercial 
purposes.” 

The  William  and  Flora  Elewlett  Foundation  (2010),  one  of  the  primary  donors  in 
the  OER  movement,  supported  the  use  of  OER  “to  equalize  access  to  knowledge  for 
teachers  and  students  around  the  globe.”  They  defined  OER  as  “teaching,  learning 
and  research  resources  that  reside  in  the  public  domain  or  have  been  released 
under  an  intellectual  property  license  that  permits  their  free  use  or  repurposing 
by  others”  (Hylen  2007).  OER  can  be  full  courses,  course  materials,  modules, 
textbooks,  streaming  videos,  tests,  software,  and  other  materials  or  techniques 
used  to  support  access  to  knowledge. 

Another  widely  used  definition  of  OER  has  been  provided  by  Atkins  et  al.  (2007), 
who  defined  OER  as  “full  courses,  open  courseware  and  content,  educational 
modules,  textbooks,  streaming  videos,  tests  and  assessments,  open  source 
software  tools,  and  any  other  tools  and  materials  used  to  support  teaching  or 
learning.” 

Broader  definitions  have  been  elaborated,  such  as  this  more  descriptive 
characterisation,  also  from  Atkins  et  al.  (2007,  p.  4): 

“Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  are  teaching,  learning,  and 
research  resources  that  reside  in  the  public  domain  or  have  been 
released  under  an  intellectual  property  license  that  permits  their  free 
use  or  re-purposing  by  others.  Open  educational  resources  include 
full  courses,  course  materials,  modules,  textbooks,  streaming  videos, 
tests,  software,  and  any  other  tools,  materials,  or  techniques  used  to 
support  access  to  knowledge.” 

Downes  (2011b)  defined  OER  broadly  as  “materials  used  to  support  education  that 
may  be  freely  accessed,  reused,  modified  and  shared  by  anyone.”  Other  definitions 
discussed  in  the  July  2011  worldwide  online  conversation  of  members  of  the  OER 
community  were  more  specific.  For  example,  says  Rossini  (2011): 

“OER  are  teaching,  learning,  and  research  materials  in  any  medium 
that  reside  in  the  public  domain  or  have  been  released  under  an 


XVII 


open  licence  that  permits  their  free  use  and  re-purposing  by  others. 

The  use  of  open  file  formats  improves  access  and  re-use  potential  of 
OER,  which  are  developed  and  published  digitally.  They  can  include 
full  courses,  course  materials,  modules,  textbooks,  research  articles, 
videos,  tests,  software,  and  any  other  tools,  materials,  or  techniques 
used  to  support  access  to  knowledge.” 

Wiley  (2010)  presents  a “strengthened  and  clarified  definition  of  OER.”  His  definition 
includes  three  elements:  1)  the  concept  of  “free”;  2)  the  four  Rs  permissions  (re-use, 
redistribute,  revise,  remix);  and  3)  non-interfering  technology  and  media  choices. 
Wiley  argues  that  free-of-charge  access  is  a necessary  feature  of  OER,  but  is  not 
sufficient,  noting  that  many  resources  online  are  freely  accessible  whether  they  be 
texts,  videos,  pictures,  games  and  so  on.  He  likens  this  linkable/viewable  but  free 
accessibility  as  “window  shopping,”  arguing  that  if  the  resources  are  not  openly 
licensed  with  permissions  for  the  four  Rs,  they  cannot  be  OER.  OER  are  needed  to 
ensure  that  the  instructors  and/or  students  have  effective  control  of  the  content. 

I formulated  this  practical  definition  for  learning  object:  “any  reusable  digital 
resource  that  is  encapsulated  in  a lesson  or  assemblage  of  lessons  grouped  in  units, 
modules,  courses,  and  even  programmes.  A lesson  can  be  defined  as  a piece  of 
instruction,  normally  including  a learning  purpose  or  purposes”  (McGreal  2004). 
So,  many  OER  can  also  be  seen  as  a subset  of  learning  objects,  characterised  by 
their  being  educationally  designed  content  that  is  free,  modifiable,  reusable  and 
shareable. 

The  free  and  open  sharing  of  educational  resources  is  essential  for  promoting 
the  building  of  ubiquitous  learning  networks  as  well  as  reducing  the  knowledge 
divide  that  separates  and  partitions  societies.  Educators  worldwide  continue  to 
face  significant  challenges  related  to  providing  increased  access  to  high-quality 
learning  while  containing  or  reducing  costs.  New  developments  in  information 
technology  highlight  the  shortcomings  and  challenges  for  the  traditional 
education  community,  as  well  as  those  of  more  flexible  providers  such  as  open 
universities.  Such  developments,  including  accessible  repositories,  Internet 
access,  wireless  networks  and  mobile  devices,  have  the  potential  to  increase  access 
and  flexibility  in  education  by  rendering  it  ubiquitous.  Basic  education  for  all 
continues  to  be  a goal  that  challenge  — and  will  continue  to  challenge  — many 
countries.  OER  can  be  used  to  overcome  many  of  the  obstacles  faced  by  both 
learners  and  educators. 


Critiques  of  OER 

Bates  (2011)  and  others  have  criticised  OER  as  being  elitist  and  a form  of  cultural 
imperialism.  In  some  contexts  this  could  very  well  be  true.  However,  educated 
readers  understand  that  any  content  can  be  elitist  and  imperialistic.  This  criticism 
cannot  be  reserved  for  OER  alone.  Much  of  the  content  that  is  not  free  and  is  sold 
to  developing  countries  by  international  publishers  can  be  described  as  elitist  and 
imperialistic.  On  the  other  hand,  unlike  proprietary  content,  OER  can  be  adapted, 
amended,  abridged,  localised  and  otherwise  altered  to  suit  specific  cultures, 
approaches  or  sensitivities. 

Another  criticism  leveled  at  supporters  of  OER  is  that  the  content  is  not  really  free 
— that  someone  has  to  pay  for  it.  In  response,  OER  advocates  have  long  recognised 


xviii 


that  these  resources  are  not  “free”  (as  in,  not  costing  anything).  Public  education 
too  is  not  free,  although  it  does  not  cost  parents  directly;  they  pay  through  their 
taxes.  Critics  argue  that  instructors  have  to  be  paid,  and  who  would  disagree? 
However,  the  argument  does  not  fit  the  reality.  Schools  that  use  proprietary 
content  do  not  pay  their  teachers  from  their  earnings  from  the  content. 
Proprietary  content  is  a cost,  not  a revenue  stream.  The  same  is  true  when  using 
OER,  although  the  costs  are  very  small  in  comparison  and  usually  these  are  labour 
costs,  so  they  stay  local.  There  are  costs  in  any  educational  system  whether  or  not 
OER  or  proprietary  content  is  used.  The  difference  is  that  schools  or  students  using 
proprietary  content  keep  paying  for  the  same  content  every  year,  while  OER  frees 
them  from  these  payments. 

Critics  also  argue  that  one  has  to  be  clear  about  what  is  meant  by  “content.”  They 
fail  to  realise  that  we  work  in  a confusing  and  unclear  world.  As  a wise  woman 
once  commented,  “If  you  are  not  confused,  you  don’t  understand.”  Educational 
content  can  be  distinct  from  the  format.  Nevertheless,  the  boundaries  are  seldom 
clear.  With  multimedia  and  educational  games,  for  example,  the  content  and  the 
process  can  be  intertwined  and  inseparable. 

Another  criticism  of  OER  is  that  it  is  the  process  that  is  important.  There  is  a 
“content  is  king”  camp  and  a process-oriented  group  called  the  “content  is 
obsolete”  camp.  It  seems  that  “never  the  twain  shall  meet,”  which  is  too  bad 
because,  arguably,  both  approaches  are  valid.  Students  can  learn  effectively 
from  facts  that  are  shoveled  at  them  (many  of  today’s  educators  are  survivors 
of  such  learning  approaches),  although  there  may  be  better  approaches.  So, 
to  argue  that  learning  “requires”  questioning,  testing  and  feedback  is  quite 
simply  not  in  accordance  with  the  facts.  People  learn  many  things  all  the  time 
without  “personal  reflection,  expert  feedback  and  interaction  with  others.”  It  is 
understood  that  these  processes  can  and  do  help  in  learning,  improving  efficiency, 
but  to  say  that  they  are  “required”  is  unsupportable. 

OER  are  also  more  than  a glorified  public  library  as  some  OER  critics  have  argued. 
Comparing  a public  library  to  the  content  available  on  the  Internet  — the  world’s 
intellectual  commons  — is  like  comparing  a horse  and  carriage  to  a spaceship. 
Access  to  knowledge  is  becoming  ubiquitous. 

Some  people  have  criticised  the  MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology) 
OpenCourseWare  initiative,  arguing  that  using  this  content  would  be  like 
importing  content  without  understanding  it.  This  may  or  may  not  be  true, 
depending  on  the  instructor,  but  the  same  critique  would  hold  for  importing 
proprietary  content  — so,  it  is  not  a criticism  of  OER,  but  rather  of  using  external 
resources  in  general,  including  proprietary  content. 

The  criticisms  of  OER  repositories  like  Health  Sciences  Online  and  Global  Uni  are 
premature.  The  first  step  in  moving  forward  is  often  simply  putting  your  materials 
online  as  OER.  Step  2 would  be  to  make  them  better.  Access  to  material  that  is 
not  first-rate  is  better  than  no  access.  In  fact  much,  if  not  most,  of  the  proprietary 
content  used  in  traditional  university  settings  is  not  well  designed,  but  is  still 
used. 

A Dean  of  Medicine  once  told  me  that  he  would  not  waste  his  time  with 
instructional  design,  because  his  students  were  the  cream  of  the  crop  and  would 
learn  no  matter  how  the  content  is  presented.  Many  (if  not  most)  learners  do 


xix 


need  the  help  of  really  well-designed  content  and  the  intervention  of  instructors. 
However,  some  don’t.  With  OER,  this  minority  of  learners  can  learn  — try  to 
stop  them.  This  hopefully  will  build  a small  cadre  of  knowledgeable  people  in 
needy  communities  that  can  help  others  who  are  less  able.  And  they  might  even 
participate  in  improving  the  OER.  Note  that  this  is  not  an  argument  against 
creating  sound  pedagogical  OER  — of  course  we  should  build  good  OER.  It  is  an 
argument  that  even  second-rate  materials  can  be  and  are  useful,  whether  we  care 
to  admit  it  or  not. 

So,  OER  do  not  need  to  be  properly  designed,  as  critics  contend.  It  would  be  great  if 
they  were,  but  is  it  possible  to  get  all  instructional  designers  to  agree  on  what  that 
would  be?  OER  as  they  stand  are  useful,  even  the  PowerPoints.  They  do  not  need 
skill  and  hard  work,  even  though  that  would  be  desirable. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  wrong  to  assume  that  there  is  not  a great  deal  of  attention 
being  paid  to  the  quality  of  OER.  MERLOT  (Multimedia  Educational  Resources 
for  Learning  and  Online  Teaching;  www.merlot.org)  and  other  organisations 
like  OPAL  (Online  Portal  for  Advanced  Learning;  http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/ 
medicine/opal/)  are  supporting  the  improvement  of  the  effectiveness  of  teaching 
and  learning  by  enhancing  the  quantity  and  quality  of  OER.  OER  quality  relies 
on  the  content  being  clear  and  concise,  demonstrating  the  concepts  to  be  learned, 
and  integrating,  where  appropriate,  with  prerequisites  and  instructions  that  are 
clearly  indicated.  Other  quality  measures  have  been  posited.  These  included  the 
brand  or  reputation  of  the  OER  creator,  peer  review,  user  ratings,  use  indicators, 
validation  and  self-evaluation.  Other  possible  quality  indicators  include 
shareability,  timeliness,  reach  (number  of  users),  usability  (licence  restrictions) 
and  accessibility. 

A respected  institution's  prestige,  brand  name  or  reputation  can  be  one  indicator 
of  quality.  Peer  review  is  a time-tested  approach  to  ensuring  quality  and  is  used 
extensively  in  academia  for  scholarly  publishing.  User  ratings  are  another  quality 
measure.  These  can  be  formal,  informal  or  both.  Formal  rating  systems  include 
the  “five  star”  system;  in  more  informal  systems,  comments  from  users  might  be 
made  readily  available. 

Quality  can  also  be  improved  through  the  sharing  of  OER  when  institutions 
transfer  costs  from  the  course  development  process  to  student  services  and 
support.  Students  could  benefit  by  paying  less  for  course  materials.  OERs  can  be 
used  to  provide  more  student  choice  at  little  additional  cost.  Is  cost  to  learners  and 
institutions  an  aspect  of  quality? 

The  timely  updating  of  courses  can  be  another  benefit  of  OER.  A course  could  be 
of  the  highest  quality  when  it  is  first  created,  but  unless  it  is  updated  regularly  and 
consistently,  the  quality  can  decay.  OER  can  be  one  way  of  accessing  and  inserting 
updated  content  and  other  relevant  course  materials  as  they  become  available.  Is 
time  an  aspect  of  quality? 

Bates  (2011)  does  concede  that  OER  are  good  for  use  by  students  and  by  instructor 
groups;  that  there  are  innumerable  other  approaches  to  using  OER  that  may  be 
more  or  less  effective;  and  that  the  value  of  OER  is  that  they  are  accessible  for 
use  in  a variety  of  ways  and,  as  has  been  noted  above,  are  more  open  for  such 
contextualisation  than  proprietary  materials. 


xx 


Finally,  one  has  to  agree  that  OER  are  not  a panacea  — neither  is  proprietary 
content,  nor  is  technology,  nor  constructivism,  connectivism  nor  any  anything 
else,  but  they  all  could  have  a place  in  any  of  the  multiple  approaches  that  we  can 
develop  to  promote  accessible  learning. 


How  This  Book  Is  Organised 

This  OER  book  is  aimed  at  practitioners,  researchers,  students  and  others 
interested  in  creating,  using  or  studying  OER.  It  has  been  organised  to  facilitate 
easy  access  to  OER  themes  of  interest.  Each  theme  is  introduced  separately, 
providing  a concise  overview  of  the  relevant  chapters  in  the  theme.  The  chapters 
consist  of  a diverse  collection  of  peer-reviewed  papers,  written  by  some  of  the 
leading  international  experts  in  the  field  of  OER  on  five  continents.  In  the  spirit  of 
openness,  rather  than  prescribing  a format  for  the  book,  we  left  it  to  the  authors 
to  come  up  with  the  OER  subjects  and  issues  that  were  important  to  them.  All 
chapters  were  then  blind  peer-reviewed  to  ensure  the  relevance  and  the  quality  of 
the  submissions.  In  that  way,  the  OER  issues  emerged  and  were  then  organised  by 
the  editors  into  overall  themes. 

From  the  diverse  selection  of  papers,  four  themes  emerged: 

1.  OER  in  Academia 

2.  OER  in  Practice 

3.  Diffusion  of  OER 

4.  Producing,  Sharing  and  Using  OER 

The  OER  in  Academia  theme  is  important  because  of  the  way  in  which  OER  are 
widening  the  international  community  of  scholars  with  shared  resources.  The 
lead  taken  by  universities  in  opening  up  education  by  releasing  their  content  has 
been  the  major  driving  force  in  promoting  OER.  This  was  led  by  the  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology  (MIT),  with  support  from  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett 
Foundation,  which  resulted  in  the  formation  of  the  OpenCourseWare  Consortium. 
Other  academic  institutions  and  organisations  took  up  the  case  from  there. 

The  OER  in  Practice  theme  includes  case  studies  and  descriptions  of  specific 
working  OER  initiatives  on  three  continents.  Their  successes  are  highlighted 
along  with  many  of  the  problems  encountered,  so  that  others  can  learn  from 
their  example.  Issues  addressed  include  the  re-use,  repurposing,  adaptation  and 
localisation  of  OER  to  serve  the  needs  of  the  learners  in  different  environments, 
touching  on  the  need  for  continuous  updating  and  improvement  of  content 
without  proprietary  constraints.  Raising  institution-wide  awareness  of  the 
location  and  management  of  OER  has  become  an  important  consideration.  It 
represents  an  important  first  step  in  embedding  the  philosophy  and  practice  of 
OER  internally  within  the  organisation.  Collaboration,  both  internally  among 
different  sectors  and  externally  among  a variety  of  institutions,  is  another  feature 
of  effective  practice  in  OER  implementations, 

The  Diffusion  of  OER  theme  provides  readers  with  thoughts  on  how  different 
groups  approach  releasing  their  content  to  the  world.  One  of  the  ongoing 
weaknesses  in  OER  has  been  the  “not  invented  here”  syndrome,  which,  along 
with  other  reasons,  has  hindered  the  spread  of  OER.  Building  communities  of 


XXI 


users  supporting  lifelong  learning,  combined  with  ubiquitous  access  to  OER  on 
the  Internet  using  new  mobile  technologies,  will  go  a long  way  in  overcoming  the 
recalcitrance  of  learners  and  educators.  Technical  standards  and  specifications  to 
promote  interoperability  using  different  devices  and  applications  will  also  play  an 
important  role. 

Producing,  Sharing  and  Using  OER  is  a theme  that  includes  design  issues  related 
to  how  OER  will  be  used,  whether  for  formal  or  informal  learning  or  some 
combination  of  the  two.  This  understanding  is  important  when  considering  the 
course  design  and  other  production  issues.  In  this  theme,  the  authors  examine 
the  pedagogical,  organisational,  personal  and  technical  issues  that  should  be 
addressed  by  producing  organisations  and  institutions. 

This  book  is  intended  as  a teaching  and  research  resource  as  well  as  an  aid  for 
practitioners,  and  so  readers  are  expected  to  start  by  reading  those  chapters  in 
which  they  have  a special  interest,  rather  than  reading  from  beginning  to  end. 
Theme  descriptions  introduce  each  section  as  a way  of  helping  readers  focus  more 
easily  on  chapters  of  interest  or  get  a quick  overview  of  the  theme  contents. 


References 

Atkins,  D.E.,  Brown,  J.S.  and  Hammond,  A.L.  (2007).  A Review  of  the  Open 
Educational  Resources  (OER)  Movement:  Achievements , Challenges, 
and  New  Opportunities.  Report  to  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett 
Foundation.  Retrieved  from:  www.hewlett.org/uploads/files/ 
ReviewoftheOERMovement.pdf 

Bateman,  P.,  Lane,  A.  and  Moon,  R.  (2012).  “An  Emerging  Typology  for  Analysing 
OER  Initiatives.”  In  Innovation  and  Impact  - Openly  Collaborating  to 
Enhance  Education.  A Joint  Meeting  of  OER12  and  OpenCourseWare 
Consortium  Global  2012.  Cambridge,  UK.  Retrieved  from:  http://oro. 
open.ac.uk/33243/l/OER_Typology_paper.pdf 

Bates,  T.  (2011).  “OERs:  The  Good,  the  Bad  and  the  Ugly.”  Retrieved  from:  www. 
tonybates.ca/2011/02/06/oers-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly/ 

Cape  Town  Declaration.  (2007).  Cape  Town  Open  Education  Declaration:  Unlocking 
the  Promise  of  Open  Educational  Resources.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
capetowndeclaration.org/read-the-declaration 

Caswell,  T.,  Henson,  S.,  Jensen,  M.  and  Wiley,  D.  (2008).  “Open  Educational 
Resources:  Enabling  Universal  Education.”  The  International  Review  of 
Research  in  Open  and  Distance  Learning  9(1):  1-11. 

Downes,  S.  (2011a).  Comment  in  “Proposed  Definition  of  OER.”  Open  Educational 
Resources  - An  Online  Discussion  Forum.  Retrieved  from:  http://lists.esn.org. 
za/pipermail/oer-forum/2011-July/000614.html 

Downes,  S.  (2011b).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  A Definition.”  Retrieved  from: 
http://halfanhour.blogspot.com/2011/07/open-educational-resources- 
definition.html 

Hylen,J.  (2007).  Giving  Knowledge  for  Free:  The  Emergence  of  Open  Educational 

Resources.  Retrieved  from:  www.oecd.org/dataoecd/35/7/3865431 7.pdf 


XXII 


McGreal,  R.  (2004).  “Learning  Objects:  A Practical  Definition.”  International 
Journal  of  Instructional  Technology  and  Distance  Learning  (IJITDL)  9(1). 
Retrieved  from:  www.itdl.org/Journal/Sep_04/article02.htm 

Panke,  S.  and  Seufert,  T.  (2012).  “What’s  Educational  about  Open  Educational 
Resources?  Different  Theoretical  Lenses  for  Conceptualizing  Learning 
with  OER.”  Retrieved  from:  http://panke.web.unc.edu/files/2012/07/ 
ELEA2012-preprint.pdf 

Rogers,  E.  (1995).  Diffusion  of  Innovations.  Free  Press:  New  York. 

Rossini,  C.  (2011).  Comment  in  “OER  definition  = open  IP  + open  formats.”  Open 
Educational  Resources  - An  Online  Discussion  Forum  (13  July  2011).  Retrieved 
31  October  2011  from:  http://lists.esn.org.za/pipermail/oer-forum/2011- 
July/000585.html 

UNESCO  (2002).  “Forum  on  the  Impact  of  Open  Courseware  for  Higher 

Education  in  Developing  Countries.”  Final  report.  Retrieved  10  April  2012 
from:  http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0012/001285/128515e.pdf 

UNESCO  (2012).  World  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  Congress  2012  Paris 
OER  Declaration.  Retrieved  from:  www.unesco.org/new/fileadmin/ 
MULTIMEDIA/HQ/CI/CI/pdf/Events/English_Paris_OER_Declaration. 
pdf 

WikiEducator  (2011).  “Defining  OER.”  Retrieved  31  October  2011  from:  http:// 
wikieducator.org/Educators_care/Defining_OER 

Wiley,  D.  (2010).  “OER  101:  Theory  and  Practice.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
opencontent.org/blog/archives/ 1725 

William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation.  (2010).  Education  Program:  Strategic  Plan. 
Retrieved  from:  www.hewlett.org/uploads/documents/Education_ 
Strategic_Plan_2010.pdf 


xxiii 


PART 


OER  in  Academia 


Introduction 


The  capacity  for  innovation  in  production  processes  is  an  indicator  of  strength 
and  vitality.  In  academia,  innovative  production  can  be  exhibited  through  the 
creation  of  courses,  instructional  materials  and  learning  resources,  publication  of 
articles  and  books,  and  the  development  of  other  educational  materials  as  OER. 
These  materials  are  becoming  popularised,  along  with  other  ways  of  mobilising 
faculty  to  support  the  use  and  re-use  of  OER. 

In  this  part  of  the  book,  different  approaches  in  academia  supporting  openness 
are  discussed,  including  the  MOOC  (Massive  Open  Online  Course)  phenomenon, 
open  access  publishing,  specific  university  initiatives  in  the  developing 
and  developed  world,  and  the  consortium  approach  linking  institutions 
internationally. 

One  innovation  is  that  of  MOOCs  as  a means  of  facilitating  the  efficient  creation, 
distribution  and  use  of  knowledge  and  information  for  learning.  MOOCs  have  no 
prerequisite  courses  and  no  formal  accreditation  — anyone  can  participate  online. 
Siemens,  as  one  of  the  founders  of  the  MOOC  concept,  gives  an  overview  of  this 
emerging  phenomenon  in  Chapter  1,  “Massive  Open  Online  Courses:  Innovation 
in  Education?”  He  argues  that  MOOCs,  by  taking  advantage  of  freely  available 
online  resources  such  as  OER,  can  be  used  to  support  social  networking  and  other 
forms  of  “connectivity.”  The  power  of  the  MOOC  is  in  the  active  engagement 
of  large  numbers  of  self-organising  learners  who  make  connections  with  one 
another. 

The  use  of  OER  to  facilitate  the  efficient  creation,  distribution  and  use  of 
knowledge  and  information  is  another  recent  innovation.  In  Chapter  2, 
“Academic  Knowledge  Mobilisation  to  Promote  Cultural  Change  Towards 
Openness  in  Education,”  Aguilar  and  Montoya  present  several  aspects  of 
“educational  experiences”  involved  in  mobilising  knowledge  through  OER.  These 
experiences  include  the  adoption,  publication  and  dissemination  of  OER  in  the 


3 


academic  community.  This  chapter  also  discusses  the  remixing  of  OER  in  courses, 
the  creation  of  an  institutional  repository,  and  use  of  OER  as  learning  resources 
or  as  content  generated  or  modified  by  the  learner.  Finally,  the  authors  discuss 
initiatives  that  integrate  communities  of  practice  and  train  faculty  in  academic 
settings. 

Historically,  resources  such  as  books,  journals,  newspapers,  and  audio  and 
video  recordings  have  been  fairly  well  curated  in  university  libraries.  However, 
the  same  cannot  be  said  for  teaching  and  learning  materials,  unless  they  have 
been  included  in  a textbook  or  study  guide.  In  the  past,  such  materials  have 
typically  only  been  made  available  to  registered  students  within  the  confines  of 
the  physical  or  virtual  classroom.  In  the  early  2000s,  institutions  such  as  MIT 
(Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology)  and  Rice  University  challenged  this 
convention  of  locking  down  teaching  and  learning  resources  by  opening  up  access 
to  many  of  their  teaching  and  learning  resources  to  the  rest  of  the  world  as  OER. 

In  April  2008,  the  University  of  Cape  Town  (UCT)  joined  the  open  movement  by 
signing  the  Cape  Town  Open  Education  Declaration,  thereby  committing  itself  to 
making  a selection  of  its  teaching  and  learning  materials  available  as  OER. 

In  Chapter  3,  “365  Days  of  Openness:  The  Emergence  of  OER  at  the  University  of 
Cape  Town,”  Hodgkinson-Williams,  Paskevicius,  Cox,  Shaikh,  Czerniewicz  and 
Lee-Pan  review  the  first  year  of  their  university’s  OER  initiative,  detailing  how  it 
decided  on  and  developed  an  institutional  directory  using  a customised  version 
of  open  source  software  — that  is,  the  content  management  system  software 
Drupal.  The  authors  describe  how  the  OER  team  went  about  soliciting  content 
from  academics  to  populate  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory  and  how  it  has  been 
sustained  beyond  the  original  Shuttleworth  Foundation  grant. 

The  assessment  and  accreditation  of  learners  who  informally  study  using  OER 
over  the  Internet  is  the  goal  of  the  OER  university  (OERu)  initiative  that  is 
described  in  Chapter  4,  “Open  Educational  Resources  University:  An  Assessment 
and  Credit  for  Students  Initiative,”  by  McGreal,  Mackintosh  and  Taylor.  The  OERu 
aims  to  provide  free  learning  to  all  learners  worldwide  using  OER  with  pathways 
to  gain  credible  qualifications  from  recognised  educational  institutions.  The 
OERu  holds  the  promise  of  shifting  the  learning  paradigm  by  creating,  adapting 
and  assembling  pathways  to  accreditation  using  OER  supported  by  the  OERu 
consortium  of  universities  and  colleges  that  agree  to  assess  a candidate’s  learning 
based  on  mastering  the  knowledge  and  skills  embedded  in  the  OER  that  they  use. 
The  partner  institutions  hope  to  develop  cost-effective  processes  to  evaluation,  to 
develop  a sustainable  learning  “ecosystem.” 


4 


CHAPTER 


Massive  Open  Online  Courses: 
Innovation  in  Education? 


George  Siemens, 
Athabasca  University 


Introduction 

Massive  Open  Online  Courses  (MOOCs)  have  developed  into  a significant  talking 
point  for  universities,  education  reformers  and  start-up  companies.  The  interest  in 
this  format  of  teaching  and  learning  resulted  in  the  New  York  Times  declaring  2012 
as  “the  year  of  the  MOOC”  (Pappano  2012). 

Writing  a chapter  such  as  this  can  be  a fool’s  game;  by  the  time  the  book  is 
published,  the  hype-driven  world  of  education  may  well  have  moved  on  to 
newer  buzzwords.  Currently,  though,  MOOCs  represent  and  reflect  the  angst 
of  educators  and  administrators  in  attempting  to  understand  the  role  of  the 
university  in  the  Internet  era. 

Researchers  have  extensively  chronicled  the  trends  and  challenges  in  higher 
education  (Altbach  et  al.  2009).  MOOCs  appear  to  be  as  much  about  the  collective 
grasping  of  universities'  leaders  to  bring  higher  education  into  the  digital  age  as 
they  are  about  a particular  method  of  teaching.  In  this  chapter,  I won't  spend  time 
commenting  on  the  role  of  MOOCs  in  educational  transformation  or  even  why 
attention  to  this  mode  of  delivering  education  has  received  unprecedented  hype 
(rarely  has  higher  education  as  a system  responded  as  rapidly  to  a trend  as  it  has 
responded  to  open  online  courses).  Instead,  this  chapter  details  different  MOOC 
models  and  the  underlying  pedagogy  of  each. 

Distance  learning  — and,  more  recently,  online  learning — has  a long  history  of 
increasing  access  to  education,  dating  back  to  1833  (Simonson  et  al.  2011,  p.  37). 
Correspondence  schools  and  radio  instruction  contributed  to  reducing  education 
barriers.  By  the  late  1960s,  the  launch  of  the  Open  University  UK  (OU  UK,  History) 
resulted  in  the  development  of  open  access  universities  around  the  world. 

Open  universities  were  initially  defined  by  their  goal  to  reduce  entry  requirements 
for  higher  education.  In  the  distance  education  model,  students  received  texts  and 


5 


reading  resources  via  postal  service  and  submitted  assignments  in  return.  Today, 
with  millions  of  students  learning  at  a distance  (Simonson  et  al.  2011,  pp.  14-15), 
research  and  literature  have  developed  to  address  teaching  practices,  learner  skills 
and  attributes,  as  well  as  governance  and  leadership  of  open  universities.  MOOCs 
are  a continuation  of  this  trend  of  innovation,  experimentation  and  the  use  of 
technology  to  provide  learning  opportunities  for  large  numbers  of  learners. 


What  Are  MOOCs? 

Open  online  courses,  sometimes  called  “massive”  (MOOCs)  due  to  their  high 
enrolment  numbers  (McAuley  et  al.  2010),  offer  a middle  ground  for  teaching  and 
learning  between  the  highly  organised  and  structured  classroom  environment 
and  the  chaotic  open  web  of  fragmented  information.  In  a traditional  classroom 
or  online  course,  learning  designers  and  educators  structure  the  readings, 
learning  resources,  lectures  and  activities  of  learners.  As  a result,  learning  is 
directed  toward  clearly  articulated  goals  and  outcomes.  The  educator  provides 
shape  and  direction  to  the  learning  experience  by  forming  groups  and  providing 
assessments,  assignment  focuses  or  guidelines. 

Connectivism  and  Connective  Knowledge  (CCK08)  was  the  first  MOOC, 
offered  both  as  an  open  course  and  in  the  Certificate  in  Emerging  Technologies 
for  Learning  (CETL)  at  the  University  of  Manitoba.  CETL  was  designed  as  a 
Masters-level  certificate  with  three  core  and  three  elective  courses.  CCK08  was 
the  initial  core  course  in  the  programme.  The  course  syllabus  was  translated 
into  six  different  languages:  Spanish,  Portuguese,  Italian,  Hungarian,  Chinese 
(Simplified  Character  Version)  and  German  (http://ltc.umanitoba.ca/wiki/ 
Connectivism_2008).  The  course  was  first  offered  from  September  to  November 
2008,  facilitated  by  me  and  Stephen  Downes.  A total  of  24  for-credit  students 
enrolled  in  the  course.  The  course  was  then  offered  as  an  open  online  course, 
drawing  over  2,200  additional  participants.  These  additional  students  did  not  pay 
a registration  fee  or  receive  feedback  on  their  assignments  from  course  instructors. 

As  put  forward  by  McAuley  et  al.  (2010,  p.  5): 

“A  MOOC  integrates  the  connectivity  of  social  networking,  the 
facilitation  of  an  acknowledged  expert  in  a field  of  study,  and 
a collection  of  freely  accessible  online  resources.  Perhaps  most 
importantly,  however,  a MOOC  builds  on  the  active  engagement 
of  several  hundred  to  several  thousand  ‘students’  who  self-organise 
their  participation  according  to  learning  goals,  prior  knowledge  and 
skills,  and  common  interests.  Although  it  may  share  in  some  of  the 
conventions  of  an  ordinary  course,  such  as  a pre-defined  timeline  and 
weekly  topics  for  consideration,  a MOOC  generally  carries  no  fees,  no 
prerequisites  other  than  Internet  access  and  interest.” 

Specifically,  MOOCs  are: 

• Massive,  involving  hundreds  and  thousands  of  students.  The  scale  of 
“massive”  is  somewhat  relative.  Early  MOOCs  had  in  the  range  of  2,000 
students,  but  offerings  by  Coursera  and  Udacity  have  exceeded  100,000 
registrants.  An  important  benefit  of  large  numbers  of  students  is  the 
opportunity  for  sub-network  formation  by  participants.  For  example,  in 
CCK08,  students  formed  sub-networks  around  language,  geographical 


6 


locations,  physical  “meet-ups,”  technology  spaces  such  as  Second  Life,  and 
different  education  segments  (primary  and  secondary,  higher  education, 
corporate  learning). 

While  the  concept  of  massive  raises  concerns  about  isolation  and 
overwhelming  student-instructor  ratios,  at  least  some  students  use  the  size 
and  diversity  of  networks  to  personalise  their  learning  through  forming 
sub-networks. 

• Open,  in  terms  of  access.  MOOCs,  particularly  those  offered  by  for-profit 
firms  such  as  Coursera,  are  not  necessarily  openly  licensed,  but  students  can 
access  the  course  content  and  participate  in  guest  lectures  without  fees. 

• Online,  exclusively.  In  some  instances,  learners  arrange  physical  meet- 
ups, but  most  of  the  learning  activity  — content  and  interactions  — occurs 
online. 

• Courses.  MOOCs  have  a set  start  and  stop  time.  Even  if  MOOC  archives 
are  made  available  after  the  course,  social  interactions  in  forums  and  blogs 
occur  during  the  set  times  of  the  course  offering.  While  there  are  some  areas 
of  overlap  and  use  of  open  education  resources  with  MOOCs,  the  content 

is  somewhat  structured  and  sequenced,  even  when  multiple  sources  of 
learning  content  are  used. 


MOOC  Formats 

MOOC  models  are  evolving  quickly.  In  their  current  configuration,  they  can  be 
classified  as  xMOOCs,  cMOOCs  and  quasi-MOOCs. 

xMOOCs 

xMOOCs  are  offered  in  a traditional  university  model  such  as  Stanford  (Coursera), 
MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology)/Harvard  (edX),  and  Udacity.  This 
format  started  in  the  fall  of  2011  with  Stanford  University's  course  in  Artificial 
Intelligence  (www.ai-class.com/).  Coursera  and  Udacity  are  for-profit  initiatives. 
In  contrast,  edX  is  not  for  profit. 

Traditional  universities,  including  many  elite  American  institutions,  are  the 
driving  force  behind  this  model.  The  pedagogical  model  that  underpins  these 
courses  is  one  of  “teacher  as  expert”  and  “learner  as  knowledge  consumer.” 
Learning  is  primarily  a process  of  the  learner  duplicating  the  knowledge  structure 
set  by  the  course  designer  and  the  instructor  teaching  the  course.  Weekly  course 
topics  are  addressed  through  recorded  lectures  that  range  from  3 to  30  minutes 
in  length.  Udacity,  not  affiliated  with  a university,  relies  on  short  lectures  and 
interactive  activities  that  rarely  exceed  five  minutes.  Coursera,  which  includes 
traditional  universities  as  members,  offers  video  lectures  that  typically  range 
between  15  and  30  minutes. 

In  order  to  meet  the  challenges  of  large  numbers  of  students,  assignments  are 
computer-graded  in  xMOOCs.  Direct  instructor  feedback  is  not  common,  except 
in  discussion  forums  where  teaching  assistants  and  the  course  instructor  respond 
to  student  questions.  Coursera  and  Udacity  encourage  participants  to  form 
regional  meet-ups  to  connect  with  other  students.  As  of  late  2012,  Coursera  lists 
over  2 million  students  (or  “courserians”)  and  over  200  courses. 


7 


cMOOCs 


cMOOCs  are  based  on  a connectivist  pedagogical  model  that  views  knowledge 
as  a networked  state  and  learning  as  the  process  of  generating  those  networks 
and  adding  and  pruning  connections.  Of  particular  importance  in  cMOOCs 
is  the  view  of  knowledge  as  generative  and  the  importance  of  artifact  creation 
as  a means  of  sharing  personal  knowledge  for  others  to  connect  to  and  with. 

In  contrast  with  xMOOCs,  cMOOCs  are  largely  open  in  terms  of  the  activities 
that  learners  can  pursue  related  to  the  theme,  with  limited  structure  and  weekly 
themes. 

A pre-history  of  cMOOCs  includes  smaller  open  online  courses  offered  by  David 
Wiley  and  Alec  Couros  in  2007  and  early  2008  (Downes  2012).  Since  CCK08, 
numerous  courses  have  been  offered  in  the  distributed  cMOOC  format,  as  detailed 
in  Table  1.1. 

Table  1.1:  Early  MOOCs 


Course 

Facilitators 

University  credit? 

CCK08 

Siemens,  Downes 

Yes 

CCK09 

Siemens,  Downes 

Yes 

Personal  Learning  Environments  and 
Knowledge  2010(PLENK) 

Siemens,  Downes,  Cormier,  Kop 

No 

Education  Futures  2010 

Siemens,  Cormier 

No 

Critical  Literacies  2009 

Downes,  Kop 

No 

MobiMooc  2010 

Inge  de  Waard 

No 

Learning  Analytics  2011 

Siemens,  Dron,  Cormier,  Elias 

No 

CCK  2011 

Siemens,  Downes 

Yes 

eduMOOC,  2011 

Schroeder 

Yes 

cMOOCs  are  distributed,  and  they  emphasise,  the  importance  of  learner 
autonomy.  As  a consequence  of  increased  learner  control,  numerous  tools  and 
technologies  are  used  during  the  delivery  of  an  open  course.  Each  learner  selects 
the  technologies  that  he  or  she  prefers  to  use.  Course  facilitators  provide:  an 
infrastructure  for  content  and  administrative  details  (in  the  form  of  a wiki  or  a 
Web  page);  a schedule  for  synchronous  sessions  involving  guest  speakers  or  live 
discussions;  a means  of  communicating  with  participants  and  providing  course 
updates  (often  handled  through  email  and  blogs);  and  starting  points  for  learners 
to  form  connections  with  each  other  (a  learning  management  system  such  as 
Moodle). 

quasi-MOOCs 

quasi-MOOCs  provide  Web-based  tutorials  as  OER,  such  as  those  of  the  Khan 
Academy  and  MIT’s  OpenCourseWare  (OCW).  These  are  technically  not  courses. 
They  consist  of  OER  intended  to  support  learning-specific  tasks  such  as  an 
operation  in  algebra,  or  they  are  treated  as  asynchronous  learning  resources  that 
do  not  offer  the  social  interaction  of  cMOOCs  or  the  automated  grading  and 
tutorial-driven  format  of  xMOOCs.  These  resources  are  loosely  linked  and  are  not 
packaged  as  a course. 


8 


The  Saylor  Foundation  (www.saylor.org/)  has  full  courses  primarily  as  OER  and 
available  for  free  use  by  learners.  These  courses  are  being  accepted  for  credit  at 
some  educational  institutions  (Carey  2012)  and  as  an  open  course  format  using 
Google  Course  Builder  (http://cb-mel02.saylor.org/). 

Figure  1.1  provides  a timeline  representation  of  MOOC  models  and  early  providers 
(Hill  2012). 

Figure  1.1:  History  of  MOOCs  (from  Hill  2012). 


O : delta  initiative 


Challenges  of  MOOCs 

Since  fall  2011,  with  the  offering  of  Stanford’s  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  course, 
most  coverage  of  MOOCs  has  focused  on  the  positive  aspects:  democratising 
learning;  free  courses;  and  economy  of  scale.  Numerous  challenges  are  starting 
to  emerge.  In  particular,  MOOCs  have  high  dropout  rates,  lack  an  economic 
or  sustainable  model,  face  challenges  of  plagiarism,  and  risk  de-skilling  the 
professoriate. 

Dropout  Rates 

MOOCs  have  poor  completion  rates  in  comparison  with  traditional  university 
courses.  Daniel  (2012)  reports  that  an  MIT  course,  Circuits  and  Electronics,  only 
had  7,157  students  out  of  155,000  complete  the  course.  However,  dropouts  in 
MOOCs  may  be  driven  by  different  factors  than  in  traditional  courses.  Students 
taking  a traditional  course  have  a different  level  of  commitment  because  of  credit 
seeking,  the  motivation  of  paid  tuition  fees,  and  the  need  to  take  a course  to  fulfil 
degree  requirements.  Together,  these  factors  are  a type  of  “hard  commitment”  on 
the  part  of  students.  Failure  to  complete  the  course  has  implications  for  future  study. 

Learners  who  take  a MOOC  may  do  so  for  a range  of  reasons  beyond  credit.  The 
obligation  for  continuing  a course  is  not  driven  by  responsibility  of  completion, 
but  for  reasons  such  as  personal  interest  or  motivation.  To  date,  studies  have  not 
been  conducted  on  the  impact  of  “soft  commitment”  in  MOOCs.  For  example, 
participants  may  be  interested  in  taking  only  a few  of  the  weekly  topics  out 
of  an  entire  course.  It  is  still  possible  that  students  have  a sense  of  personal 
disappointment  in  failing  to  complete  a course,  but  course  completion  is  different 


9 


in  online  courses,  even  though  many  of  the  metrics  of  success  (such  as  concern 
over  dropout  rates)  are  different  from  those  in  regular  university  courses.  (During 
and  following  CCK08, 1 met  numerous  students  at  conferences  in  different 
countries  who  expressed  a sense  of  disappointment  at  not  completing  the  course 
or  being  more  active.) 

Sustainability 

MOOCs  do  not  yet  have  a sustainable  revenue  model.  Developing,  delivering 
and  updating  online  courses  is  a resource-intensive  undertaking.  Until  a revenue 
model  is  established,  concerns  will  exist  around  the  viability  of  MOOC  providers 
and  the  MOOC  model  of  learning.  Udacity  and  Coursera  are  at  the  early  stages  of 
experimenting  with  business  models,  including  offering  career  placement  services 
(Young  2012b). 

De-skilling  the  Professoriate 

One  potential  impact  of  “super  professors”  from  top  universities  providing 
recorded  lectures  to  other  universities  and  colleges  is  the  progressive  de-skilling 
of  the  professoriate  (Basu  2012).  MOOC  providers  such  as  Coursera  and  Udacity 
are  for-profit  organisations  backed  by  venture  capital  funding.  As  such,  the  first 
mandate  of  these  providers  is  to  their  shareholders,  not  to  students  or  to  society. 

Cheating  and  Plagiarism 

While  MOOCs  are  often  non-credit,  cheating  and  plagiarism  is  a growing  concern 
for  university  providers  (Young  2012a).  These  concerns  require  attention  from 
open  course  providers  in  order  for  MOOCs  to  be  considered  for  credit  or  transfer 
by  universities. 


The  Impact  of  MOOCs 

MOOCs  may  well  be  a transitory  stage  for  education.  The  concerns  that  MOOCs 
raise  need  to  be  addressed  before  this  course  format  is  accepted  broadly. 

When  viewing  MOOCs  from  the  perspective  of  how  students  interact  and  how 
information  is  created,  it  becomes  apparent  that  a key  aspect  of  this  format  is 
how  it  mirrors  or  reflects  the  structure  of  the  Internet  (at  least,  the  cMOOCs).  An 
ecosystem  is  developing  around  MOOCs.  MOOCs  are  a platform  on  which  various 
service  offerings  are  provided.  As  an  example,  Twitter’s  popularity  has  resulted  in 
the  development  of  numerous  products  and  services  that  enrich  the  experience 
for  users.  While  Twitter  itself  was  initially  a platform  for  sharing  short  messages, 
often  from  mobile  phones,  numerous  products  were  developed  on  the  Twitter 
platform  for  reading  tweets,  sharing  images  and  videos,  and  archiving  tweets. 

This  ecosystem  improved  the  value  of  the  Twitter  platform.  Similarly,  MOOCs 
are  today  at  an  early  stage,  but  already  there  are  indications  that  a similar  suite  of 
products  and  tools  will  be  built  on  top  of  existing  offerings. 

Another  impact  of  open  online  courses  is  a power  shift  toward  increased  equity 
between  educator  and  learner.  Figure  1.2  details  how  the  traditional  faculty- 
content-learner  role  is  increasingly  augmented  through  OER  and  external  experts. 


10 


The  emerging  educator-learner  power  shift  is  also  reflected  in  access  to  learning 
content,  social  media  and  content  creation  tools  reflective  of  the  participatory 
nature  of  the  Web. 

Figure  1.2:  Expanding  learner  access. 


Another  important  contribution  of  MOOCs  is  to  increase  interest  in,  and 
awareness  of,  online  learning.  Online  learning  continues  to  outpace  the 
enrolment  growth  of  traditional  university  students  (Allen  and  Seaman  2011). 
The  media  interest  in  open  courses  has  generated  much  discussion  of  the 
opportunities  of  online  education. 


Attributes  of  cMOOCs 

The  content  and  discussion  in  a cMOOC  reflect  the  open,  networked  and 
distributed  structure  of  the  Internet.  While  a classroom-type  model  is  evident 
in  open  courses  through  the  use  of  readings  and  recorded  lectures,  participants 
have  control  and  autonomy  to  move  beyond  the  planned  structure  of  the  course 
through  the  use  of  OER,  the  use  of  personal  blogs,  and  the  formation  of  sub- 
networks around  areas  of  personal  interest. 

The  relationships  among  the  various  technological  components  of  a cMOOC 
are  detailed  in  Figure  1.3.  Blog  and  Moodle  forum  posts,  as  well  as  tweets,  were 
aggregated  through  gRRShopper,  an  application  developed  by  Stephen  Downes. 
If  a post  or  tweet  contains  the  course  hashtag  (such  as  CCK08),  it  is  automatically 
pulled  into  the  database  for  inclusion  in  the  next  edition  of  The  Daily,  an  email 
sent  (not  surprisingly)  every  day.  gRSShopper  and  The  Daily  have  commenting 
features  available  to  course  participants,  but  comments  are  most  often  made 
directly  on  the  blogs  of  participants  or  in  the  Moodle  forum,  as  indicated  by  the 
comment  ecosystem  in  Figure  1.3. 


11 


Figure  1.3:  Technology  elements  in  a cMOOC. 


These  cMOOCs  are  informed  by  connectivist  views  of  learning  — namely,  that 
knowledge  is  distributed  and  learning  is  the  process  of  navigating,  growing  and 
pruning  connections.  Interactions  in  CCK08  started  in  Moodle,  but  learners 
interacted  in  Facebook  (www.facebook.com/group. php?gid=31924181180), 

Second  Life  (http://chilbo.wikispaces.com/Connectivism+Course+in+Chilbo), 
blogs,  wikis  and  other  spaces.  Fini  (2009,  Section  3)  details  the  following  toolset 
used  in  his  research  of  CCK08:  “Moodle,  blogs,  Facebook,  Linkedin,  Twine, 
Twitter,  Ning,  Elluminate,  Ustream,  Pageflakes,  The  Daily,  Second  Life,  RSS, 
conceptual  maps,  social  bookmarking,  and  Flickr.” 

CCK08  was  among  the  first  courses  that  adopted  the  model  of  distributed  content 
and  interactions  that  have  since  come  to  define  cMOOCs.  Fini  (2009)  provides 
an  indication  of  the  range  of  tools  and  processes,  including  how  some  of  the 
tools  were  selected  and  proposed  by  the  facilitators,  and  others  were  suggested 
by  the  participants.  Even  though  the  course  assignments  required  only  the  use 
of  a personal  blog  and  a tool  to  build  concept  maps,  during  the  course  more  than 
12  different  tools  and  technological  environments  were  used,  from  learning 
management  systems  (e.g.,  Moodle)  to  3D  environments  (e.g.,  Second  Life). 

Tool  sets  differ  for  each  MOOC,  with  prominent  or  “fashionable”  tools  gaining 
significant  attention.  For  example,  during  CCK08,  a group  was  formed  in  Second 
Life  (which  was,  at  the  time,  gaining  attention  with  educators)  for  individuals  to 
meet  and  discuss  course  topics.  In  subsequent  courses,  different  technologies  were 
used  that  reflected  the  new  tools  gaining  prominence  during  the  time  frame  of 
the  course.  CCK09  resulted  in  significant  Twitter  traffic  and  PLENK10  produced 
numerous  Facebook  groups. 

• Knowledge  is  generative  - xMOOCs  adopt  a traditional  view  of  knowledge 
and  learning.  Instead  of  distributed  knowledge  networks,  xMOOCs  are 
based  on  a hub-and-spoke  model:  the  faculty/knowledge  at  the  centre 
and  the  learners  as  replicators  or  duplicators  of  knowledge.  Each  week 
in  a cMOOC  starts  with  readings  and  resources  that  reflect  the  current 
understanding  of  experts  in  the  field.  Learners  are  asked,  however,  to  go 
beyond  the  declarations  of  knowledge  and  to  reflect  on  how  different 
contexts  impact  the  structure  (even  relevance)  of  that  knowledge.  Broadly, 
however,  generative  vs.  declarative  knowledge  captures  the  epistemological 


12 


distinctions  between  cMOOCs  and  the  Coursera/edX  MOOCs.  Learners  are 
encouraged  to  create  and  share  digital  artifacts  — blogs,  articles,  images  and 
videos. 

• Coherence  is  learner  formed  and  instructor  guided  - This  attribute  is  closely 
related  to  the  point  above.  In  traditional  courses,  instructors  create 
knowledge  coherence  by  bounding  the  domain  of  knowledge  that  the 
learners  will  explore  — that  is,  this  is  the  course  text,  here  are  the  readings 
and  the  quizzes  and  tests  that  validate  what  the  student  has  learned.  In 
cMOOCs,  the  coherence  between  course  concepts  is  less  structured,  as 
learners  are  expected  to  form  these  connections  through  the  process 

of  learning.  Learners  are  asked  to  explore,  deepen  and  extend  the  ideas 
presented  in  weekly  readings  and  resources.  Coherence  is  something  that 
the  learners  form  as  they  make  sense  of  and  find  their  way  through  the 
messy  knowledge  elements  that  make  up  the  many  dimensions  of  a field. 

• Interactions  are  distributed  and  multi-spaced  - CCK08  started  by  being 
primarily  centred  in  a Moodle  discussion  forum.  As  the  course  progressed, 
interactions  occurred  with  many  tools  and  technologies,  including  Second 
Life,  PageFlakes,  Google  Groups,  Twitter,  Facebook,  Plurk,  blogs,  wikis, 
YouTube  and  dozens  of  others. 

• Solutions  are  innovation  and  impact  focused  - It  is  now  a cliche  to  state  that 
the  world  is  complex  and  that  knowledge  is  continually  evolving.  However, 
just  because  it  is  a cliche  does  not  mean  it  is  not  true.  Society  faces  complex 
challenges.  Solutions  to  these  global  challenges  will  likely  be  found  in 
distributed  and  networked  approaches.  The  challenges  are  too  big  to 

be  addressed  in  traditional  sub-clustered  empirical  knowledge  models. 
Integrative  and  holistic  knowledge  approaches,  distributed  across  global 
networks  can  help  (e.g.,  the  way  the  virus  that  causes  SARS  in  2003  was 
identified).  With  cMOOCs,  attempts  are  made  to  emulate  connective  and 
integrative  knowledge:  a tug  on  one  part  of  the  knowledge  network  impacts 
other  parts. 

• Autonomous  and  self-regulated  learners  are  fostered  - cMOOCs  revolve  around 
a power  question:  What  can  learners  do  for  themselves  with  digital  tools 
and  networks?  cMOOCs  foster  not  only  a particular  type  of  knowledge 

in  a particular  area  of  inquiry;  they  also  foster  a self-regulated,  motivated 
and  autonomous  learner.  When  an  instructor  does  for  learners  what 
learners  should  do  for  themselves,  the  learning  experience  is  incomplete. 
Developing  capacity  for  learning  and  the  mindsets  needed  to  be  successful 
learners  is  a central  attribute  of  cMOOCs.  The  goal  is  not  only  the 
epistemological  development  of  learners  (knowing  things),  but  also  their 
ontological  development  (becoming  a certain  type  of  person). 


Curriculum  and  Learning  Outcomes 

Participative  pedagogical  models  are  particularly  appropriate  for  use  with  OER.  The 
learning  content  or  curriculum,  when  it  consists  of  OER  or  other  free  content  on 
the  Internet,  plays  a different  role  than  they  do  in  traditional  courses.  Traditional 
courses  are  generally  designed  with  some  learning  target  (outcomes)  and 
sequenced  content  intended  to  direct  the  learner  to  achieving  planned  outcomes. 


13 


On  the  surface,  this  model  is  useful  for  managing  the  education  experience, 
as  the  intent  of  courses  are  clearly  mapped  to  specific  course,  programme 
or  degree  outcomes.  The  reality  of  the  learning  experience  is  more  complex 
than  is  indicated  by  structured  curriculum.  Learners  approach  courses  with 
varying  levels  of  expertise  and  knowledge,  gained  through  formal  courses  and 
life  experiences.  A group  of  30  students  will  consist  of  diverse  learners  having 
different  knowledge  profiles.  In  a participative  pedagogical  model,  learners  are 
able  to  select  and  interact  around  new  knowledge  and  avoid  duplication.  The 
educator  continues  to  play  a role  in  ensuring  that  all  learners  meet  the  needs  of 
each  course.  However,  where  a course  cannot  be  personalised  for  each  student, 
due  to  teacher-learner  ratios,  learners  can  self-organise  and  self-regulate  to 
personalise  the  learning  process.  Instead  of  creating  a rigid  course  structure  in 
advance  of  learner  engagement  with  curriculum,  a cMOOC  defines  learning 
outcomes,  but  gives  students  freedom  in  exploring  and  accessing  the  course 
content. 

Finally,  structure  in  cMOOCs  is  a by-product  of  the  interactions  that  occur 
between  learners  and  content,  learners  and  the  educator,  and  learners  with  other 
learners.  The  experience  of  student  interaction  is  then  “stitched  together”  as 
learners  move  through  the  course  through  analytics  (Hawksey  2012).  Analytics 
reveal  the  coherence  developed  through  interaction  for  different  students,  rather 
than  the  structure  that  is  formed  in  advance  of  the  course  starting. 


Conclusion 

The  OER  movement  faces  an  important  challenge  in  responding  to  MOOCs. 

While  the  hype  pendulum  has  swung  strongly  in  the  direction  of  open  online 
courses,  as  educators  start  to  face  the  challenges  and  shortcomings  of  MOOCs, 
it  is  reasonable  to  expect  that  attention  will  turn  to  concerns  about  access  to 
educational  content  and  effective  pedagogical  models. 

One  challenge  that  OER  advocates  need  to  consider  is  the  broader  appeal  of  ease  of 
use  and  access  than  just  openly  licensed  content.  For  example,  learners  who  take 
Coursera  courses  have,  to  date,  not  demonstrated  a significant  interest  in  OER  or 
any  content  and  course  licensing.  The  main  interest  is  “free  as  in  access”  not  “free 
as  in  remixing/re-use.” 

Additionally,  how  do  small  colleges  and  universities  participate  in  open  online 
courses?  Companies  such  as  Coursera  are  partnering  with  elite  universities.  The 
prominent  xMOOC  model  has  not  yet  provided  an  opportunity  for  less  elite 
systems  to  teach  courses  on  their  platforms. 

The  future  of  MOOCs  is  unclear,  considering  the  rapid  development  of  MOOCs 
from  obscurity  in  late  2011  to  mainstream  attention  in  2012.  The  OER  movement 
is  quickly  evolving,  as  are  software,  content  and  platform  providers.  Media 
attention  proclaims  disruption  for  education.  Regardless  of  what  the  future  holds 
for  open  online  courses,  a critical  need  exists  for  learners  from  around  the  world  to 
be  able  to  access  quality  learning  content  and  learning  experiences.  As  the  MOOC 
hype  subsides,  it  is  important  for  the  OER  movement  to  continue  to  advocate  for 
openness,  access  and  learner-focus. 


14 


References 


Allen,  I.  and  Seaman,  J.  (2011).  “Going  the  Distance:  Online  Education  in  the 
USA.”  Babson  Survey  Research  Group:  Wellesley,  MA. 

Altbach,  P.G.,  Reisberg,  L.  and  Rumbley,  L.E.  (2009).  “Trends  in  Global  Higher 
Education:  Tracking  an  Academic  Revolution.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0018/001831/183168e.pdf 

Basu,  K.  (2012).  “MOOCs  and  the  Professoriate.”  Retrieved  from:  www. 

insidehighered.com/news/2012/05/23/faculty-groups-consider-how- 

respond-moocs 

Carey,  K.  (2012).  “Into  the  Future  with  MOOC’s.”  Retrieved  from:  http://chronicle. 
com/article/Into-the-Future-With-MOOCs/134080/ 

Creative  Commons  (2012).  “Keeping  MOOCs  Open.”  [blog].  Retrieved  from: 
http://creativecommons.org/weblog/entry/34852 

Daniel,  J.  (2012).  “Making  Sense  of  MOOCs:  Musings  in  a Maze  of  Myth,  Paradox 
and  Possibility.”  Korean  National  Open  University:  Seoul. 

Downes,  S.  (2012).  “The  Rise  of  MOOCs.”  Retrieved  from:  http://halfanhour. 
blogspot.ca/2012/04/rise-of-moocs.html 

Fini,  A.  (2009).  “The  Technological  Dimension  of  a Massive  Open  Online  Course: 
The  Case  of  the  CCK08  Course  Tools.”  International  Review  of  Research  in 
Open  and  Distance  Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  from:  www.irrodl.org/index. 
php/irrodl/article/view/643/1402 

Hawksey,  M.  (2012).  “Summary  of  Social  Monitoring  Tools  and  Recipes  I Use 
at  JISC  CETIS.”  Retrieved  from:  http://mashe.hawksey.info/2012/10/ 
summary-of-social-monitoring-tools-and-recipes/ 

Hill,  P.  (2012).  “Four  Barriers  That  MOOCs  Must  Overcome  to  Build  a Sustainable 
Model.”  Retrieved  from:  http://mfeldstein.com/four-barriers-that-moocs- 
must-overcome-to-become-sustainable-model/ 

McAuley,  A.,  Stewart,  B.,  Siemens,  G.  and  Cormier,  D.  (2010).  “The  MOOC  Model 
for  Digital  Practice.”  Retrieved  from:  www.elearnspace.org/Articles/ 
MOOC_Final.pdf 

Open  University  (2012).  “History  of  the  OU.”  Retrieved  from:  www8.open.ac.uk/ 
about/main/the-ou-explained/history-the-ou 

Pappano,  L.  (2012).  “The  Year  of  the  MOOC.”  Retrieved  from:  www.nytimes. 
com/2012/1 1/04/education/edlife/massive-open-online-courses-are- 
multiplying-at-a-rapid-pace.html 

Simonson,  M.,  Smaldino,  S.E.,  Albright,  M.  and  Zvacek,  S.  (2011 ). Teaching  and 

Learning  at  a Distance:  Foundations  of  Distance  Education.  Allyn  & Bacon: 
Boston. 

Young,  J.  (2012a).  “Dozens  of  Plagiarism  Incidents  Are  Reported  in  Coursera's  Free 
Online  Courses.”  Retrieved  5 December  2012  from:  http://chronicle.com/ 
article/article-content/133697/ 

Young,  J.  (2012b).  “Providers  of  Free  MOOC's  Now  Charge  Employers  for  Access  to 
Student  Data.”  Retrieved  from:  http://chronicle.com/article/Providers-of- 
Free-MOOCs-Now/136117/ 


15 


CHAPTER 


Academic  Knowledge  Mobilisation 
to  Promote  Cultural  Change  Towards 
Openness  in  Education 


]ose  Vladimir  Burgos  Aguilar  and  Maria  Soledad  Ramirez  Montoya, 
Tecnologico  de  Monterrey 


Introduction 

We  are  living  in  challenging  times  as  we  transition  to  a new  knowledge-based 
society.  Some  educational  resources  are  now  fully  accessible  through  different 
media  formats  via  information  and  communication  technologies  (ICT)  — 
through  Web  tools  and  search  engines,  including  personal  websites  and  those  of 
formal  educational  institutions,  libraries,  information  centres  and  civil  society 
organisations  (communities,  associations,  affiliations).  There  are  advances  in 
technology  worldwide  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  new  resources  published 
each  day  on  the  Internet.  Accordingly,  the  way  we  see  the  world  has  changed 
dramatically.  This  also  has  a significant  impact  on  education,  both  in  the  methods 
of  learning  and  in  the  methods  of  teaching. 

If  knowledge  creation  and  transfer  is  one  of  the  strategies  of  wealth  and  prosperity 
most  promising  and  challenging  in  the  emergence  of  a knowledge-based 
society,  then  the  main  objective  for  an  organisation  has  to  be  the  discovery, 
instrumentation  and  operationalisation  of  a sustainable  cycle  of  “virtuous  value 
creation”  as  a side  effect  of  capitalising  on  the  flow  of  information  and  knowledge 
in  the  activities  produced  by  the  most  valuable  asset  of  the  organisation:  its 
human  capital. 

The  capacity  for  innovation  is  a recognised  indicator  of  competitive  strength  and 
vitality  in  an  organisation,  and  has  become  extremely  valued  in  a knowledge- 
based  economy  (Carrillo  1998,  2004).  In  an  educational  environment  this  means 
valuing  and  using  knowledge  produced  through  the  academic  community,  from 
courses  and  teaching  materials,  articles  and  books,  conferences  and  lectures, 
research  reports,  learning  resources  and  other  educational  materials. 

The  Internet  has  proven  to  be  of  great  potential  to  facilitate  knowledge 
dissemination  from  universities,  educational  institutions,  organisations  and 


17 


governments,  as  well  as  to  support  the  design  of  innovative  educational  strategies 
to  improve  and  transform  learning  environments.  UNESCO  coined  the  term 
“Open  Educational  Resources”  (OER)  in  2002  to  describe  open  academic  content 
made  available  through  ICT  for  reference,  use  and  adaptation  for  educational 
purposes.  According  to  UNESCO  (2011),  the  potential  use  of  information 
technologies  in  education  is  crucial  in  providing  educators  in  a growing 
information  society  with  the  tools  needed  to  creatively  impact  the  teaching- 
learning process,  enabling  them  to  overcome  the  challenges  of  a disruptive 
environment  and  global  progress  towards  a more  demanding  knowledge-based 
society. 

To  move  beyond  the  OER  movement  of  creating  and  sharing  resources,  it  is 
important  to  recognise  and  properly  document  the  type  of  knowledge  being 
generated  in  educational  institutions.  Educational  institutions  aim  to  provide 
appropriate  mechanisms  to  encourage  knowledge  transfer  but  make  a conscious 
recognition  of  administrative,  technological  and  legal  barriers.  It  is  crucial  that 
policy  makers  and  administrative  staff  take  actions  to  facilitate  knowledge-based 
strategies,  aligned  with  the  mission  and  vision  of  organisations,  to  make  possible 
a real  change  in  the  three  levels  of  planning:  strategic,  tactical  and  operational. 

To  succeed  in  building  a knowledge-based  economy,  organisations  — including 
educational  institutions  — need  to  recognise  their  knowledge  assets  and  facilitate 
a dissemination  process  through  an  active  local  community. 

According  to  the  OPAL  Report  (2011)  “Beyond  OER:  Shifting  Focus  to  Open 
Educational  Practices,”  five  barriers  need  to  be  overcome  if  educational 
institutions  are  to  encourage  use  of  OER: 

1 . Lack  of  institutional  support 

2.  Lack  of  technological  tools 

3.  Lack  of  skills  and  time  of  users 

4.  Lack  of  quality  or  fitness  of  OER 

5.  Personal  issues  (lack  of  trust  and  time) 

The  report  argues  for  building  confidence  in  the  use  of  OER  to  enhance  actual 
usage,  as  well  as  the  creation  of  open  learning  frameworks  to  transform  the  way 
institutions  see  education  today. 

One  of  the  critical  barriers  identified  is  the  issue  of  protecting  knowledge  assets 
through  mechanisms  of  intellectual  property  and  copyrights  at  the  moment  that 
the  knowledge  is  generated  by  the  creator.  Without  the  proper  legal  management 
of  digital  objects  (like  OER),  the  efforts  will  be  diminished,  impacting  the  further 
uses  of  OER.  It  is  estimated  that  most  of  the  existing  educational  material  available 
over  the  Internet  is  protected  by  traditional  copyright  terms  and  conditions  of 
use,  which  makes  it  difficult  to  share  and  subsequently  make  it  “open”  (Atkins 
et  al.  2007).  OER  are  characterised  as  open  access  materials  that  are  available  to 
the  public,  with  no  restriction  on  accessibility  and  no  payment  of  royalties  for 
educational  use. 

One  challenge  of  OER  use  in  academia  is  to  recognise  the  value  of  existing 
knowledge  as  it  is  shared,  assimilated  and  applied  to  specific  needs  by  other 
communities  in  academia.  Effective  knowledge  application  entails  the  explicit 
definition  of  new  knowledge  that  arises  through  the  process  of  tailoring  OER  from 


18 


their  source  towards  a specific  application  (re-use  or  repurposing),  facilitating 
actions  that  are  effective  and  significant  (Bennet  and  Bennet  2007). 

Figure  2.1  shows  how  knowledge  represented  by  OER  is  first  published  on  the 
Internet  to  the  worldwide  community.  The  problem  then  becomes  that  OERs 
are  too  dispersed  on  too  many  websites.  This  makes  it  difficult  for  the  users  to 
tell  whether  educational  resources  are  from  reliable  sources  or  unreliable  sources 
(ACRL  2004).  Thus,  the  emergence  of  “infomediaries”  is  needed,  whose  basic 
goal  is  to  provide  a service  as  aggregators  of  information,  operating  as  catalogues 
(Hartman  et  al.  2000;  Skyrme  2001).  An  infomediary  (from  the  combination 
of  the  words  “information”  and  “intermediary”)  is  a website  that  gathers  and 
organises  large  amounts  of  data  (metadata)  and  acts  as  a go-between  among  those 
who  need  the  information  and  those  who  supply  the  information. 

Next,  there  is  a dissemination  process  to  different  markets.  In  the  case  of 
universities,  the  faculty  is  the  idoneous  community  to  catalyze  change  by 
mobilising  knowledge  into  specific  educational  practices  — for  example,  by 
creating  new  courses,  workshops,  learning  activities,  conferences  and  other 
teaching  activities. 

Figure  2.1:  Knowledge  mobilisation  of  academic  content. 

Sharing  Selection  Dissemination  Mobilisation 


The  OPAL  Report  (2011)  shows  significant  findings,  such  as  the  fact  that  the  OER 
initiatives  have  focused  on  the  creation  and  publication  of  educational  materials 
and  resources  but  neglected  the  transfer  and  mobilisation  of  knowledge  into 
learning  and  teaching  practice.  Towards  an  academic  mobilisation  of  knowledge 
represented  by  Open  Educational  Practices,  a definition  is  needed.  The  OPAL 
Report  (2011)  shows  us  the  following: 

“Open  Educational  Practices  (OEP)  are  a set  of  activities  around 
instructional  design  and  implementation  of  events  and  processes 
intended  to  support  learning.  They  also  include  the  creation,  use 
and  repurposing  of  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  and  their 
adaptation  to  the  contextual  setting.  They  are  documented  in  a 
portable  format  and  made  openly  available.” 

The  full  idea  with  Open  Educational  Practices  is  to  represent  the  activities 
of  how  institutions,  educators  and  learners  are  using  OER  in  practice  for 


19 


teaching,  learning  or  research.  A good  example  is  the  re-use,  revision,  remixing, 
redistribution  and  production  of  new  OER  to  promote  innovative  pedagogical 
techniques  and  strategies  to  empower  learners  on  their  lifelong  learning  path. 


Case  Study:  Mobilising  OER  to  Educational  Practices 

The  case  study  that  is  presented  in  this  chapter  took  place  at  a Mexican  university 
that  has  worked  since  the  year  2007  on  several  open  educational  projects.  These 
projects  were  thought  to  enrich  innovative  practices  and  to  improve  academic 
achievement.  Based  on  experiences  with  the  use  and  production  of  royalty-free 
course  materials,  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  has  identified  some  key  factors  for 
the  development  of  a model  of  effective  knowledge  transfer  using  OER. 

The  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  is  a private,  non-profit  academic  institution 
founded  in  1943.  It  is  composed  of  31  campuses  across  Mexico.  These  campuses 
offer  high  school  programmes,  undergraduate  and  graduate  degrees,  continuing 
education,  as  well  as  social  programmes.  Through  technology-based  distance 
programmes  since  1989,  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  has  been  a pioneer 
in  distance  education.  With  more  than  20  years  of  experience  through  its 
Virtual  University,  it  currently  reaches  29  countries  and  offers  undergraduate, 
postgraduate,  continuing  education,  and  social  programmes  completely  online. 

Regarding  knowledge  mobilisation  of  academic  content,  the  Tecnologico 
de  Monterrey  has  been  an  active  participant  in  each  stage  of  the  process  by 
sharing  and  publishing  academic  content  through  the  worldwide  initiative 
of  the  OpenCourseWare  Consortium  (OCW-ITESM  2008).  This  has  been 
accomplished  by  publishing  undergraduate  and  graduate  courses,  by  selecting 
relevant  educational  resources  through  the  creation  and  maintenance  of  a Web 
catalogue  of  indexed  OER,  and  by  fostering  dissemination  of  academic  content  to 
those  who  may  be  interested  in  its  use  (academia,  government,  industry,  NGOs, 
communities,  the  public).  Lastly,  it  promotes  not  only  the  use  of  OER,  but  goes  far 
beyond  the  process  of  dissemination  of  knowledge  by  tailoring  it  from  its  source 
to  its  application.  OER  content  playlists  promote  and  facilitate  remixing  of  core 
components  of  courses  and  share  new  ideas  for  teaching  by  creating  new  topics 
and  course  subjects.  Some  examples  are:  OER  as  textbook  alternatives  (anthologies 
of  educational  resources);  OER  as  reusable  resources;  and  OER  as  content  generated 
or  modified  by  a learner  (Ramirez  and  Burgos  2011),  fostering  a culture  of  active 
participation  in  the  creation,  use  and  re-use  of  educational  material. 

Some  innovative  educational  experiences  that  have  promoted  knowledge 
mobilisation  through  OER  at  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  towards  an 
educational  open  practice  include: 

a)  the  adoption  of  open  digital  materials  from  OpenCourseWare  universities 
for  formal  academic  programmes  in  our  institution  (Contreras  2008) 

b)  publication  of  academic  content  through  the  OpenCourseWare  initiative 
(OCW-ITESM  2008) 

c)  digital  knowledge  dissemination  through  the  initiative  called  “Knowledge 
Hub”  (currently  named  TEMOA:  www.temoa.info)  that  provides  a public 
and  multilingual  catalogue  of  OER,  aiming  to  help  the  educational 
community  find  the  resources  that  meet  their  particular  needs  for  teaching 


20 


and  learning  through  a specialised  and  collaborative  search  systems  and 
social  tools  (Burgos  2008,  2010) 

d)  integration  of  OER  with  eLearning  in  graduate  courses  to  create  anthologies 
equivalent  to  textbooks  (Ramirez  2010b);  and  integration  of  OER  with 
traditional  education  systems  in  the  context  of  the  work  of  students  (Burgos 
and  Ramirez  2010).  Examples  include: 

(dl)  development  by  the  university  of  an  institutional  repository  of 

OER  and  mobile  learning  resources  on  educational  research  which 
is  available  through  a website  (http://catedra.ruv.itesm.mx),  where 
these  resources  are  open,  free  and  licensed  for  use,  re-use  and 
distribution  (DAR  2010) 

(d2)  use  of  OER  as  an  anthology  of  selected  resources  (content  playlist) 
by  the  instructor  of  the  course,  providing  a suitable  alternative  to  a 
textbook  for  the  course  (Ramirez  2010c) 

(d3)  creation  of  an  open  textbook  (Ramirez  and  Burgos  2010),  resulting 
from  case  studies  and  investigations  where  120  graduate  students 
implemented  OER  in  their  learning  environments  and  documented 
the  impact  on  their  learning 

(d4)  creation  of  OER  by  the  graduate  students  who  designed  educational 
cases  for  K-12,  high  school  and  higher  education,  as  well  as  open 
objectives  for  the  formation  of  teachers  in  a knowledge-based  society 
(Ramirez  and  Valenzuela  2010) 

(d5)  use  of  the  platform  of  TEMOA  by  learners  to  generate  or  modify 
content  (The  service  “Topics  & Courses”  allows  registered  users  to 
create  courses,  topics  and  learning  activities  through  the  definition 
of  annotated  lists  with  OER,  and  search  queries  produced  by  the 
user  at  the  catalogue  (TEMOA  2011a).  The  lists  may  be  shared  as 
they  are  published  for  free  use,  or  can  be  copied  and  reorganised  by 
combining  specific  elements  to  create  new  lists  and  adapting  them  to 
meet  needs  of  teaching  or  learning,  all  while  retaining  references  of 
attribution  to  the  original  sources.) 

(d6)  production  of  OER,  aimed  at  the  development  of  educational 
researchers  in  a collaborative  process  with  six  other  Mexican 
institutions  (Ramirez  2010c) 

(d7)  training  by  the  university  of  its  own  faculty  and  undergraduate 

and  graduate  students,  as  well  as  of  faculty  from  other  educational 
institutions  (K-12  to  university  level),  on  the  effective  use  of  OER  in 
their  own  classroom  environments 

Finally,  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  has  conducted  research  on  all  these 
experiences,  such  as:  use  of  technology;  legal  issues  relating  to  open  educational 
materials;  training  for  using  and  producing  OER;  and  sharing  best  practices  (www. 
temoa. info/research).  Figure  2.2  shows  a practical  application  by  mapping  the 
different  experiences  that  have  taken  place  at  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  to 
encourage  and  promote  academic  knowledge  mobilisation  into  Open  Educational 
Practices. 


21 


Figure  2.2:  Knowledge  mobilisation  of  academic  content  at  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey. 


Sharing 


Selection  / Dissemination 


Mobilisation 


Sharing:  Publication  of  Academic  Content  Through  OER 

The  first  documented  phase  for  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  in  knowledge 
mobilisation  is  the  educational  experience  of  sharing  and  publishing  academic 
content  through  the  initiative  of  OpenCourseWare  Consortium  (OCW-ITESM 
2008;  www.ocwconsortium.org).  The  Consortium  brings  together  over  250 
educational  institutions  and  organisations  to  create  a pool  of  open  educational 
content,  fostering  the  development  of  courseware  materials  from  its  members  to 
facilitate  knowledge  transfer  through  open  academic  content,  and  by  promoting 
its  adoption  to  propitiate  tailoring  of  educational  materials  to  satisfy  specific 
educational  needs  (see  Figure  2.3). 

The  process  of  adoption  of  open  academic  content  started  in  2007  at  the 
Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  with  the  analysis  of  several  courses  from  international 
universities  of  higher  education  — for  example,  MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology)  (MIT-OCW  2011),  Carnegie  Mellon  University  (2011;  www.cmu. 
edu/oli)  and  Yale  University  (2011;  http://oyc.yale.edu).  The  professors  searched 
for  matches  between  the  syllabuses  of  their  courses  and  others  published  in  open 
initiatives.  The  next  step  was  to  select  specific  content  and  learning  activities  from 
these  courses.  The  content  and  activities  were  incorporated  into  undergraduate 
courses  delivered  during  that  fall  2007  academic  period. 

The  implementation  of  these  materials  was  smooth  and  successful  (Mortera 
2011).  The  contents  and  activities  from  OCWC  courses  provided  an  international 
perspective  which  made  the  recipient  courses  richer  and  more  interesting  for  both 
professors  and  students.  The  main  obstacles  identified  in  this  process  occurred 
during  the  selection  and  design  stage.  The  topics  included  and  the  depth  of  the 


22 


content  of  open  courses  varied  significantly  from  local  courses,  which  made 
finding  suitable  matches  between  courses  a difficult  task. 

To  study  the  adoption  process,  the  Graduate  School  of  Education  of  the  Tecnologico 
de  Monterrey  conducted  two  follow-up  case  studies  on  the  subject  of  knowledge 
transference  and  the  adoption  process  of  open  academic  content:  “Knowledge 
transference  of  digital  resources  from  the  OpenCourseWare  initiative  for  face-to- 
face  instruction”  (Contreras  2008);  and  the  “Transference  of  open  educational 
resources  from  global  universities”  (Gonzalez  2008;  Gonzalez  et  al.  2008). 

Figure  2.3:  Sharing  of  open  academic  content  through  OCWC  (OCW-ITESM  2008). 


OPENSMSMlE 


MEMBERS 


Members 


Hot*  » l/t-tpi  > Tacnottpco  M Monterrey 


► HOW  TO  JO* 

» MemMrship  Applicabon 


MEMBER  PROFILE 


Search  Courses 


fnecMwiPMi.. 

AnyLan** ft 

H 

A4»anc*d  S*MC* 

My  Account 

Utwnam* 

Pus  word 

Remember  I*  H 

:■ 

Forpot  irw  p*Mwof4’ 

FWOOt  yOUf  IlM'l'MM? 

Create  an  account 

Find  US  on  non  » - 

Site  Search 

typo  keyword  and  hit  ei 


Tecnologico  de  Monterrey 


Shortcuts 


Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  is  a private  non-pro*  academe 
msttufcon  with  06  years  of  experience  I is  composed  of  33 
campuses  across  Maioco  mat  otter  wgn-echoot  programs 
undergraduate  and  graduate  degrees  continuing  education, 
as  woP  as  social  programs  There  are  10  International  liaison 
offices  located  In  Canada  the  United  States  of  America.  Franco.  Spa*  Belgium  and  Sertbortand 


TECNOLOGICO 
DE  MONTERREY , 


Through  technology-Oased  distance  programs  Tecnologico  do  Monterrey  is  a pioneer  n distance 
iducaDon  with  more  man  ig  years  of  experience  vwough  its  vuiusi  university.  reaching  29  countoes 
At  present.  Vie  virtual  UnfirersNy  offeis  totally  online  undergraduate,  postgraduate  continuing 
education  and  s octal  programs.  The  institution  enjoys  n atonal  and  international  accrerfrUfcons 
mOuOng  SACS.  AACS8  EFME.  ABET  CACEI  AMFEM  I FT.  NHSA  SECAJ.  CACECA 

Open  educavonai  imoaar.es 

Iwwwtemoajnfol  — TEMOais  a mowteaoe  hub  mat  eases  a pubic  and  muKHingual  catalog  of 
Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  to  improve  its  discover aCdffit  over  Vie  Internet  and  to  ease  the 
task  to  educators  to  adopt  tiem  m educational  piactccs 


► What  is  OpenCourseWare? 

► Memoers 

► OpenCourseWare  tVeosites 

* Find  Courses 

• Toolkit 

» Contact  Us 

Sponsors 

mi  eruiiAM  rioiA 

HEWLETT 

FOl  N DATION 

Sustaining  Members 


Profile  Information 

Member  of  unwersia 

Mam  Website  rmp/iwwweejmrrw 


OpenCourseWare 


OpenCourseWare  http  ffocw  Wsm  rrat 

website 


African  virtual  University 
Chma  Open  Resources  for 
Education 

Fundagao  Getuiio  Vargas  • 
FCV  Online 

Japan  OCW  Consortium 
Johns  Hopkins  Bloomberg 
School  of  Public  Hearth 
Korea  OCW  consortium 
Massacnusetts  uisktute  of 
Technology 
Ne tease  information 
Technology  (Belong)  Co.. 


Selection:  Documentation  and  Evaluation  of 
Academic  Content 

The  selection  criteria  of  open  academic  content  are  based  on  the  meaning  of  the 
term  “Open  Educational  Resources”  as  defined  by  Smith  and  Casserly  (2006): 

“OER  are  teaching,  learning  and  research  resources  that  reside  in  the 
public  domain  or  have  been  released  under  an  intellectual  property 
license  that  permits  their  free  use  or  re-purposing  by  others.  Open 
educational  resources  include  full  courses,  course  materials,  modules, 
textbooks,  streaming  videos,  tests,  software,  and  any  other  tools, 
materials  or  techniques  used  to  support  access  to  knowledge.” 

For  practical  purposes,  the  definition  needs  to  be  studied  in  parts  for  one  to  fully 
understand  its  educational  impact  for  instrumentation  and  further  interpretation 
for  operationalisation.  For  example,  OER  are  any  type  of  teaching,  learning  and 
research  resources  available  over  the  Internet,  narrowing  the  selection  criteria 


23 


from  collections  to  OER  available  in  digital  format  only.  Additionally,  we  are 
talking  about  materials  available  in  the  public  domain  or  released  under  an 
intellectual  property  licence  to  assure  the  respect  of  authorship,  leaving  aside 
all  educational  material  that  doesn’t  explicitly  declare  respect  for  copyright  in  a 
website  or  in  a catalogue.  In  the  past,  there  have  been  some  studies  to  identify  OER 
content  providers  that  comply  with  the  selection  criteria  and  to  fully  understand 
the  copyright  boundaries  (Bissell  and  Park  2008;  AU-SOC  2009;  Hofman  2009). 

Once  the  OER  is  available  on  the  Internet,  there  are  several  challenges  to  be 
faced,  like  the  accessibility  of  open  academic  content  (Hafiler  2009)  and  its 
discoverability  in  a sea  of  information.  To  improve  the  discoverability  process  of 
OER  over  the  Internet  and  ease  the  task  to  educators  to  adopt  these  resources  in 
educational  practices,  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  proposed  the  creation  of  an 
educational  initiative  it  named  “Knowledge  Hub”  (Burgos  2008).  This  proposal 
was  raised  at  the  World  Economic  Forum  in  Davos,  Switzerland,  in  January  2008, 
during  a Global  Universities  Leaders  Forum  session  (Galan  2008). 

Knowledge  Hub  was  later  named  TEMOA  (2010),  representing  the  words  “to  seek, 
investigate,  inquire”  in  the  Nahuatl  language.  It  is  a tree-use  catalogue  that  supports 
a multilingual  search  engine  which  allows  the  user  to  discover  selected  OER  using 
enriched  metadata  created  by  an  academic  community  and  enhanced  by  librarians 
using  Web  2.0  such  as  faceted  search  and  social  networking  tools.  The  catalogue 
classifies  educational  resources  in  different  areas  of  knowledge,  according  to  the 
scheme  of  reference  of  the  “Hierarchical  Interface  to  Library  of  Congress  Classification 
(HILCC)  proposed  by  Columbia  University  (Davis  2006;  HILCC  2008). 

The  portal  website  of  TEMOA  (see  Figure  2.4)  provides  public  access  through  the 
Internet  for  educators,  students  and  self-learners  of  all  educational  levels,  from 
graduate  to  K-12.  It  was  created  to  assist  educators  in  the  challenging  task  of 
introducing  classroom  innovations  to  improve  the  teaching-learning  process  and, 
by  consequence,  improve  student  retention,  motivation  and  attention.  TEMOA  is 
a Mexican  distance  education  initiative  of  the  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  (ITESM), 
which  is  globally  available,  conceived  by  the  faculty’s  need  to  find  instructional 
materials  for  teaching  and  learning  with  the  certainty  that  the  resources  found 
respect  the  intellectual  property  and  legal  rights  of  the  original  authors. 

Figure  2.4:  The  temoa.info  Open  Educational  Resources  portal  (TEMOA  2010). 


temoa 


Open  Educational  Resources  Portal 


SISTEMA 

TECNOldGICO 
Of  M0WTIRREY 


Educational 

resources 

View  resources  by  subject 

a Arts.  Architecture  A Applied  Arts 
a Business  & Economics 
a Engineering  & Applied  Sciences 
a General 
O Health  Sciences 
O History  & Archaeology 
Q Journalism  A Communications 
a Languages  S Literatures 
a Law,  Politics  A Government 
a Music.  Dance.  Drama  A Film 

□ Philosophy  A Religion 

□ Sciences 

a Social  Sciences 

Browse  by  all  available  categories 


Educational  Resources  Contribute  and  Share  I Guides  and  docs  I About 


s_ 


Teach  in  a different  way 


In  temoa  you  will  find: 


cataloged  by  eipeit  librarians 
✓free  public  access. 
Recommendations  ot  use  for 
teaching  or  learning 


✓ Atool  that  will  help  you  build 
Individually  or  collaboratively 
reusable  courses. 

✓Asrte  mat  offers  online  courses, 
wimout  regulnng  additional 
technology 


^ Contacting  people  from  other 
places 

✓ Participating  collaborativefy  to 
build  courses 

✓ Evaluating  and  receiving 
recognition  through  me  community 


Search.  Build.  Participate. 


24 


TEMOA  provides  its  main  service  of  a Web  catalogue  of  OER  on  a free-use  basis 
(guest  profile),  but  other  secondary  services  are  reserved  for  its  community  on  a 
membership  basis  (collaborator  profile). 

• Guest  profile  - offered  to  those  users  who  may  be  interested  in  the  catalogue 
for  self-use  or  reference.  This  status  is  for  users  of  the  catalogue  who  do  not 
have  a login  account  on  the  system,  but  who  can  still  use  the  search  engine 
and  the  catalogue  itself. 

• Collaborator  profile  - offered  to  those  users  who  want  not  only  to  use  the 
catalogue,  but  also  to  share  time,  experience  and  knowledge  in  a subject 
area  of  expertise  by  creating  new  educational  resources  or  by  evaluating  and 
rating  educational  resources.  This  status  is  for  users  of  the  catalogue  who 
have  a login  account  on  the  system. 

One  of  the  services  reserved  for  “Collaborators”  is  the  possibility  to  create  new 
knowledge  from  the  base  of  existing  knowledge  in  the  catalogue.  The  service 
offers  the  potential  to  create  courses,  topics  and  learning  activities  through  the 
definition  of  annotated  lists  with  OER,  and  search  queries  produced  by  the  user  at 
the  catalogue.  The  lists  may  be  shared,  as  they  are  published  for  free  use,  or  could 
be  copied  and  reorganised  by  combining  specific  elements  to  create  new  lists  and 
adapt  them  to  meet  needs  of  teaching  or  learning,  all  while  retaining  references  of 
attribution  to  the  original  sources. 

At  the  TEMOA  initiative  there  are  selection  criteria  and  documentation  and 
evaluation  processes  for  academic  content  (2011b,  2011c).  This  is  through  a 
process  called  “Lifecycle  of  an  Open  Educational  Resource,”  in  which  potential 
OER  content  is  first  evaluated  by  an  expert  librarian  using  the  selection  criteria 
and  then  each  accepted  resource  goes  through  a number  of  different  filters.  This 
procedure  provides  a quality  assurance  process  (see  Figure  2.5). 


Figure  2.5:  OER  lifecycle  for  quality  assurance  (TEMOA  2011c). 


Documentation 


i 


Does  t met: 


Cataloging 


3 


I wli  rlswly  «i<* 
<hm) 

(or'iplenviit 
tr*  triform*  non. 


Editorial 

Review 


4 


25 


Dissemination:  Communication  and  Reference  of 
Academic  Content 


Academic  content  as  OER  may  be  studied  as  a “digital  object”  that  provides 
information.  But  it  can  also  be  seen  as  a “digital  learning  object”  that  is  defined  as 
“an  entity  [of]  digital  information  developed  for  the  generation  of  knowledge,  and 
development  of  skills  and  attitudes,  which  makes  sense  according  to  the  needs  of 
the  person  and  corresponds  to  a concrete  reality”  (Ramirez  2007,  pp.  356-357). 
From  this  broad  perspective,  an  OER  may  contain  a specific  subject,  a content 
unit,  an  objective  and  several  descriptors  to  promote  its  re-use,  and  to  support 
interoperability,  accessibility  and  continuity  of  use  over  time. 

An  OER  as  a digital  object  may  be  recursive  in  itself.  This  means  that  it  can  consist 
of  one  or  more  (sub)  digital  objects.  In  this  sense,  for  effective  instrumentation, 
it  is  necessary  to  define  the  granularity  of  the  digital  object  to  facilitate  its 
communication  properly,  since  the  level  of  granularity  is  required  to  define  a 
particular  schema  of  metadata.  The  granularity  is  the  scope  of  the  digital  object. 
For  educational  purposes,  an  OER  can  refer  to  the  definition  of  a concept,  a 
subject,  a module  (a  group  of  subjects)  or  even  a full  course. 

To  ease  the  diffusion  and  dissemination  of  digital  objects,  it  is  important  to 
document  and  accurately  describe  each  OER  with  defined  metadata  (descriptors 
to  give  context).  Metadata  is  simple  data  that  describes  other  data  and  which 
together  are  used  to  describe  and  represent  a digital  object  for  potential  use.  A set 
of  metadata  can  include  descriptive  data  about  the  context,  quality,  conditions  or 
specific  characteristics  of  the  OER.  Metadata  is  more  extensively  used  for  query 
refinement  in  databases  through  specialised  search  engines,  supported  with 
information  technology  to  optimise  the  searchable  process. 

The  initiative  of  TEMOA  facilitates  a process  of  digital  dissemination  of  OER  by 
validating  and  filtering  knowledge  available  on  the  Internet,  considering  the 
need  to  ensure  a specific  selection  of  OER  and  a proper  documentation  with  basic 
metadata  (Avila  and  Sanabria  2008).  It  also  covers  the  need  to  filter  information 
that  is  available  in  a massive  and  exponential  way  over  the  Internet,  reducing  the 
problem  of  suspicions  and  questions  about  its  authenticity,  validity  and  reliability 
(ACRL  2004). 

Mobilisation:  Transference  of  Academic  Content 

There  is  a necessity  to  deal  with  uncertainty  and  provide  an  effective  way  to 
provoke  knowledge  transfer  and  to  satisfy  particular  needs  of  development.  It 
is  not  enough  to  share  and  publish  a magnitude  of  information  and  it  is  also 
not  enough  to  simply  facilitate  the  digital  dissemination  of  knowledge.  There 
is  a more  demanding  need  to  ease  and  facilitate  the  learning  and  sharing  of 
knowledge  through  a conscious  development  of  connections,  relationships  and 
the  flow  of  information  through  communities  of  people  (Bennet  and  Bennet 
2007).  Knowledge  mobilisation  is  about  bringing  people  and  actions  together  to 
create  value  and  meaning  to  satisfy  particular  needs  based  on  assimilation  and 
application  of  focused  knowledge. 

The  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey  initiated  a process  of  creating  value  through 
the  creation,  assimilation,  leveraging,  sharing  and  application  of  focused  open 


26 


academic  content  in  specific  scenarios.  In  the  case  of  the  graduate  course  for 
the  Master  of  Education  titled  “Research  for  the  Improvement  of  Educational 
Practices”  offered  in  the  Graduate  School  of  Education  at  the  Tecnologico 
de  Monterrey,  OER  was  used  in  specific  learning  activities.  The  OER  were 
incorporated  as  an  anthology  of  resources,  providing  a suitable  alternative 
of  textbook  (Ramirez  2010b)  in  a distance  education  modality.  Then,  given 
the  main  goal  of  the  course  to  “prepare  students  in  the  research  held,  from 
the  philosophical  aspects  of  science  and  education,  to  the  everyday  practice 
of  educational  actors,”  the  study  of  OER  was  made  the  main  research  subject 
line  through  the  development  of  a final  research  project  focused  on  the  study 
of  the  incorporation  and  use  of  OER  in  real  educational  practices  — wherein, 
the  researchers  looked  at  ways  to  deliver  innovative  and  more  personalised 
approaches  to  teaching  and  learning. 

Figure  2.6  shows  the  use  of  OER  as  an  anthology  of  selected  resources  (content 
playlist)  by  the  instructor  of  the  course,  providing  a suitable  alternative  to  the 
textbook  for  the  course  (Ramirez  2010a).  The  table  of  contents  shows  22  subjects 
and  30  educational  resources  selected  for  each  subject.  Each  of  the  resources 
comes  from  different  sources  (content  providers)  previously  audited  and  reviewed 
by  an  expert  team  of  librarians  with  the  function  of  publishing  them  in  the 
catalogue  of  TEMOA  at  the  OER  providers’  directory.  The  system  enables  each 
resource  and  each  subject,  including  the  anthology  itself,  to  be  reviewed  and 
rated  by  the  academic  community  on  a scale  of  one  to  five  diamonds  (“poor”  to 
“awesome”)  to  give  feedback  to  the  instructor  about  the  perceived  quality  of  the 
selected  resources. 


Figure  2.6:  OER  content  playlist  as  an  anthology  of  educational  resources 
(Ramirez  2010a). 


temoa 


Open  Educational  Resources  Portal 


SISTEMA 

ttcnolOgico 
Ofc  MONTERREY 


Home  I Log  in/Create  account  Educational  Resources  Contribute  and  Share  Guides  and  docs  About 


Table  of  contents 


All  media  types 


Ed5047.  Investigation  para  la 

Mejora  de  las  Practicas  ou  are  here  Home  > Educational  Resources  » Topics  and  Courses 

Educatlvas 


□ 1.  Introduciendonos  al  amDiente 
de  las  practicas  educativas  y su 
relation  con  la  brecha  digital 
Q 2.  Diseno  de  la  investigation 
con  estudto  de  casos 
Q 3.  Conduciendo  la  Investigation 
con  estudio  de  casos 
a 4.  Innovation  de  las  prScticas 
educativas:  evaluation,  mejora  y 
trascendencia 

Actions 

. view 

• Cite  this  item 


Ed5047.  Investigation  para  la  Mejora  de  las  Practicas  Educativas 


View  Source  references 

Submitted  by  seliamlrei  on  October  1 S.  2010. 


Subject  general 

Social  Sciences  > Education  > Education  (General) 


General  objective: 

El  partitipante  del  curso  Investlgara  una  practica  educativa.  como  una  acttvldad  Intentional.  Humana  y social,  a la  luzdel 
conotimiento  de  dlversas  tiendas  de  la  educacldn, ...  more** 


• ^Subscribe  to  updates 

# f^Subscnbe  to  search  results 


Popular  taps  tor  ths  resource 

None 


Course  identifier 

ed5047 


Share  this: 

n t <$-*  m 

Copyright  notice 


Basic  Information  Sylabus  B biography  and  materials  Copyright  Teacher  Information 


CIPcode 

53. : HIGH  SCHOOUSECONDARY  DIPLOMAS  AND 
CERTIFICATES. 


Study  hours  per  week  to  be  dedicated  to  ths  course  (lecture  hours 
included): 

12hfS 


All  topics  and  courses  within  the 
site  have  a Creative  Commons 
Atnbubon-Non-commercial- 
Shareaiike  license. 


Audience  education  level 

Academic:  Graduate 


Total  calculated  time  of  (lcluded  activities. 

0 


Number  of  sub-terns 

• 22  topics 

• 28  educational  resources 

Subject  keywords 

Investigation 


The  first  educational  experience  was  the  creation  of  one  anthology  of  OER  for 
the  course  and  the  re-use  of  existing  base  knowledge  to  fulfil  the  learning  goals 
of  the  subjects.  However,  the  most  demanding  educational  experience  was  to 
think  “outside  the  box”  of  simply  using  the  knowledge  in  learning  activities  and 


27 


to  go  farther  to  create  knowledge  about  educational  practices  by  tailoring  existing 
knowledge  to  concrete  educational  needs  in  real  scenarios. 

The  second  educational  experience  was  the  design  of  a final  research  project, 
focused  on  OER  in  real  educational  practices,  to  study  the  impact  on  real 
teaching-learning  scenarios  from  basic  education  to  higher  education  levels. 

The  project  consisted  of  the  development  of  a case  study  considering  a rigorous 
research  methodology,  referring  to  a real  situation  taken  in  context.  The  situation 
was  analysed  to  see  the  evolution  of  the  phenomena  the  researcher  was  interested 
in.  Case  studies  provide  an  opportunity  for  individuals  to  identify  or  discover 
processes. 

This  case  study  itself  was  treated  as  an  integrated  system  of  components,  which 
did  not  necessarily  have  to  work  well  together  or  even  seem  to  be  logically 
connected.  The  aforementioned  reflections  were  important  to  allow  an 
understanding  of  the  object  of  study.  One  of  the  advantages  of  the  case  study  was 
to  allow  the  researchers  to  observe  information  brought  together  with  a large 
number  of  factors  that  were  interacting.  In  this  way,  the  complexity  and  richness 
of  social  situations  could  be  appreciated. 

The  case  study  investigation  was  done  by  teams  working  to  study  the  integration 
of  OER  into  diverse  learning  environments  using  technology.  Thus,  the 
investigation  of  educational  practices  was  presented  in  a practical  and  innovative 
way,  where  OER  were  incorporated,  trying  to  identify  similar  and  different 
elements  in  them.  This  culminated  in  a series  of  proposals  to  improve  the 
educational  practices  being  studied. 

As  a result  of  the  course,  students  presented  the  documentation  of  30  case  studies 
of  use  of  OER  in  several  contexts,  disciplines  and  educational  levels,  which  were 
integrated  in  an  electronic  book  publication  as  an  OER  itself  (Ramirez  and  Burgos 
2010).  The  front  cover  of  the  book  is  shown  in  Figure  2.7. 

Figure  2.7:  Open  textbook  with  30  case  studies  of  use  of  OER  (Ramirez  and  Burgos  2010). 


28 


Lessons  Learned  and  Conclusions 


A learning  environment  enriched  with  technology  allows  instructors  to  offer  new 
ways  of  teaching  and  reflecting  on  their  teaching  practice,  empowering  students 
in  the  development  of  essential  skills  in  the  use  of  such  technology  to  stimulate 
the  learning  process.  The  OER  as  they  can  be  found  in  a natural  state  in  digital 
format  and  available  through  electronic  media  like  the  Internet  facilitates  their 
incorporation  into  the  classroom  using  ICT  to  encourage  an  active  role  in  the 
teaching-learning  process. 

The  following  recommendations  might  assist  decision  makers  in  fostering  new 
learning  environments  to  prepare  educators  in  a knowledge-based  society: 

• Promote  a new  culture  and  educational  practice  to  acquire  the  skills 
required  to  fully  exploit  the  use  of  OER  — skills  such  as  digital  literacy  and 
information  literacy. 

• Promote  a community-based  system  of  open  sharing  of  educational  best 
practices,  with  the  intention  of  facilitating  the  effective  re-use  of  OER 
and  learning  of  significant  experiences  in  the  use  of  OER  in  teaching  and 
learning  activities. 

• Establish  monitoring  and  recognition  mechanisms  that  support 
educational  practice,  to  share  experiences  on  the  use  of  OER  through 
intellectual  and  scientific  evidence. 

• Clarify  and  define  licensing  schemes  and  mechanisms  for  the  protection  of 
copyright  and  intellectual  property  to  foster  the  production  and  re-use  of 
OER. 

References 

ACRL  (Association  of  College  and  Research  Libraries)  (2004).  “Information 
Literacy  Competency  Standards  for  Higher  Education.”  ACRL, 
a Division  of  the  American  Library  Association.  Retrieved  17 
January  2011  from:  www.ala.org/ala/mgrps/divs/acrl/standards/ 
informationliteracycompetency.cfm 

Atkins,  D.E.,  Brown,  J.S.  and  Hammond,  A.L.  (2007).  A Review  of  the  Open 
Educational  Resources  (OER)  Movement:  Achievements,  Challenges, 
and  New  Opportunities.  Report  to  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett 
Foundation.  Retrieved  from:  www.hewlett.org/uploads/files/ 
ReviewoftheOERMovement.pdf 

AU-SOC  (2009).  “Code  of  Best  Practices  in  Fair  Use  for  OpenCourseWare.” 

Committee  of  Practitioners  of  OpenCourseWare  in  the  United  States, 
Center  for  Social  Media:  School  of  Communication,  American  University. 
Retrieved  from:  www.centerforsocialmedia.org/ocw 

Avila,  H.  and  Sanabria,  D.  (2008).  El  Proyecto  Knowledge  Hub:  De  Mexico  hacia  el 
resto  del  mundo.  Mexico  D.F.:  Ponencia  presentada  en  el  III  Encuentro  de 
Catalogacion  y Metadatas  CUIB,  Centro  Universitario  de  Investigaciones 
Bibliotecologicas  de  la  UNAM  y el  Instituto  de  Investigaciones 
Bibliograficas.  Available  at:  http://hdl.handle.net/10760/12524 


29 


Bennet,  A.  and  Bennet,  D.  (2007).  Knowledge  Mobilization  in  the  Social  Sciences  and 
Humanities:  Moving  from  Research  to  Action.  MQI  Press  (Knowledge  Series). 

Bissell,  A.  and  Park,  J.  (2008).  “What  Status  for  Open?  An  Examination  of  the 
Licensing  Policies  of  Open  Educational  Organizations  and  Projects.” 

A report  from  CCLearn  (Creative  Commons)  to  the  William  and  Flora 
Hewlett  Foundation:  http://creativecommons.org/weblog/entry/11700 

Burgos,  J.V.  (2008).  “Knowledge  Hub  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  Index: 
Experiences  of  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey.”  In  OER  Stories,  UNESCO  OER 
Community  Open  Educational  Resources.  Retrieved  21  October  2008  from: 
http://oerwiki.iiep-unesco.org/index.php?title=OER_stories/Knowledge_ 
Hub 

Burgos,  J.V.  (2010).  Distribucion  de  conocimiejito  y acceso  libre  a la  information  con 
Recursos  Educativos  Abiertos  (REA),  Revista  Digital  “La  Educ@cion”  (143). 
Edicion  especial  “Innov@cion  Educativa  para  el  Desarrollo  Humano,” 
Organizacion  de  los  Estados  Americanos  (OEA-OAS),  en:  www.educoea. 
org/portal/La_Educacion_Digital/laeducacion_143/ 

Burgos,  J.V.  and  Ramirez,  M.S.  (2010).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  Experiences 
of  Use  in  a Latin- American  Context.”  In  Open  ED  2010  Proceedings  at 
Barcelona  (UOC,  OU,  BYU).  Retrieved  4 January  2011  from:  http://hdl. 
handle.net/10609/5062 

Carrillo,  J.  (1998).  “Managing  Knowledge-Based  Value  Systems.”  Journal  of 
Knowledge  Management  1(4),  June  1998. 

Carrillo,  J.  (2004).  “Capital  Cities:  A Taxonomy  of  Capital  Accounts  for  Knowledge 
Cities.”  Journal  of  Knowledge  Management  8(5):  28-46. 

Contreras,  M.P.  (2008).  “Transferencia  de  conocimiento  con  recursos  digitales 
de  OpenCourseWare  (OCW)  para  contenidos  en  clase  presencial.”  Tesis 
de  Maestria  en  Tecnologia  Educativa,  Escuela  de  Graduados  en  Educacidn  del 
Instituto  Tecnologico  deEstudios  Superiores  de  Monterrey.  Disponible  en: 
http://biblioteca.itesm.mx 

DAR  (2010).  “Digital  Repository:  DAR:  Desarrolla,  Aprende  y Reutiliza.”  Escuela 
de  Graduados  en  Educacion  del  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey.  Retrieved  24 
February  2011  from:  http://catedra.ruv.itesm.mx/ 

Davis,  S.P.  (2002).  “HILCC:  A Hierarchical  Interface  to  Library  of  Congress 

Classification.”  Columbia  University  Libraries  Digital  Library  Initiative, 
Taylor  & Francis  Group.  Journal  of  Internet  Cataloging  5(4):  19-49.  Available 
from:  www.informaworld.com/smpp/81412133448121463/content~db=al 
l~content=a909291161 

Galan,  V.  (2008).  El  Tec  diseha  un  ‘Google’  academico.  CNN  Expansion. 

com.  Retrieved  10  October  2008  from:  www.cnnexpansion.com/ 
tecnologia/2008/04/16/tec-de-monterrey-elabora-buscador 

Gonzalez,  G.  (2008).  “Transferencia  de  recurso  educativo  abierto  en  modelos 
de  universidades  globales.”  Tesis  de  Maestria  en  Educacidn,  Escuela  de 
Graduados  en  Educacion  del  Instituto  Tecnologico  de  Estudios  Superiores  de 
Monterrey.  Disponible  en:  http://biblioteca.itesm.mx 


30 


Gonzalez,  G.,  Lozano,  F.G.  and  Ramirez,  M.S.  (2008).  “Procesos  de  transferencia 
de  recurso  educativo  abierto  en  modelos  de  universidades  globales  hacia 
cursos  de  e-learning  y blended  learning.”  Memorias  del  XVII  Encuentro 
Internacional  de  Educacion  a Distancia.  Virtualizar  para  educar. 
Guadalajara,  Jalisco. 

Hafiler,  B.  (2009).  Access  to  Open  Educational  Resources.  Report  of  a UNESCO  OER 
Community  Discussion,  9-27  February  2009.  Available  at:  http://oerwiki. 
iiep-unesco.org/index.php?title=Access20ER/Contents 

Hartman,  A.,  Sifonis,  J.  and  Kador,  J.  (2000).  Net  Ready:  Estrategias  para  el  exito  en  la 
nueva  econotma.  McGraw-Hill:  New  York. 

HILCC  (Hierarchical  Interface  to  Library  of  Congress  Classification)  (2008). 
“Columbia  HILCC:  A Hierarchical  Interface  to  LC  Classification.” 
Columbia  University  Libraries  Digital  Program.  Retrieved  5 January  2011 
from:  www.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/cul/resolve7cul.lBQN3R 

Hofman,  J.  (2009).  Introducing  Copyright:  A Plain  Language  Guide  to  Copyright  in  the 
21st  Century.  The  Commonwealth  of  Learning.  Retrieved  17  January  2011 
from:  www.col.org/introducingcopyright 

Kotler,  P.  (1986).  “The  Prosumer  Movement:  A New  Challenge  for  Marketers.”  In 
Advances  in  Consumer  Research.  Vol.  13.  Lutz,  R.J.  (ed.).  Association  for 
Consumer  Research,  Provo,  UT,  pp.  510-513.  Retrieved  17  January  2011 
from:  www.acrwebsite.org/volumes/display.asp?id=6542 

MIT-OCW  (2011).  “Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  in  OCW 

(OpenCourseWare).”  Retrieved  17  January  2011  from:  www.ocw.mit.edu 

Mortera,  F.J.  (2011).  “Implementacion  de  Recursos  Educativos  Abiertos 

(REA)  a traves  del  portal  TEMOA  (Knowledge  Hub)  del  Tecnologico 
de  Monterrey,  Mexico.”  Revista  Formation  Universitaria  3(5):  9-20. 
Retrieved  from:  www.scielo.cl/scielo. php?script=sci_issuetoc&pid=0718- 
500620100005&lng=es&nrm=iso) 

OCW-ITESM  (2008).  “OpenCourseWare  of  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey.  Retrieved 
January  5,  2011  from:  http://ocw.itesm.mx 

Online  Portal  for  Advanced  Learning  (OPAL)  (2011).  “Beyond  OER:  Shifting  Focus 
to  Open  Educational  Practices.”  The  Open  Educational  Quality  Initiative. 
Retrieved  23  February  2011  from:  http://oer-quality.org/ 

Ramirez,  M.S.  (2007).  Administration  de  objetos  de  aprendizaje  en  educacion 
a distancia:  experiencia  de  colaboracion  interinstitucional.  Tecnologia 
Educativa:  en  un  modelo  educativo  centrado  en  la  persona,  Burgos  & 
Lozano  (Comps.),  Mexico:  LIMUSA 

Ramirez,  M.S.  (2010a).  “Ed5047.  Investigacion  para  la  Mejora  de  las  Practicas 
Educativas,  TEMOA.”  Open  Educational  Resources  Portal.  Retrieved  6 
January  2011  from:  www.temoa.info/node/45210 

Ramirez,  M.S.  (2010b).  “Ed5049.  Demandas  educativas  en  la  sociedad  del 

conocimiento,  TEMOA:  Open  Educational  Resources  Portal.”  Retrieved  6 
January  2011  from  www.temoa.info/es/node/42476 


31 


Ramirez,  M.S.  (2010c).  Generando  recursos  educativos  abiertos  y moviles  para  la 

formation  de  investigadores  educativos:  una  colaboracion  interinstitucional. 

XI  Encuentro  Internacional  Virtual  Educa  (seccion  del  seminario  de  uso 
de  recursos  tecnologicos  para  la  education  y la  investigation  educativa: 
experiences  del  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey).  Santo  Domingo,  Republica 
Dominicana. 

Ramirez,  M.S.  and  Burgos,  J.V.  (2010)  (coords.).  Recursos  Educativos  Abiertos  en 

Ambientes  Enriquecidos  con  Tecnologta:  Innovation  en  la  Practica  Educativa. 
(1st  ed.)  Tecnologico  de  Monterrey;  Mexico.  Available  at:  www.lulu.com 

Ramirez,  M.S.  and  Burgos,  J.V.  (2011).  “Innovative  Experiences  of  Open 

Educational  Resources  in  a Latin-American  Context.”  OCWC  Global 
2011:  Celebrating  10  years  of  OpenCourseWare,  Cambridge,  MA  (4-6 
May).  Retrieved  11  January  2001  from:  http://conference.ocwconsortium. 
org 

Ramirez,  M.S.  and  Valenzuela,  J.R.  (2010).  “Trans-formando  a los  profesores: 

desarrollo  de  competencias  para  una  Sociedad  Basada  en  Conocimiento 
mediante  objetos  de  aprendizaje  abiertos.”  XI  Encuentro  Internacional 
Virtual  Educa  (seccion  del  seminario  de  uso  de  recursos  tecnologicos  para 
la  educacion  y la  investigation  educativa:  experiencias  del  Tecnologico  de 
Monterrey).  Santo  Domingo,  Republica  Dominicana. 

Skyrme,  D.J.  (2001).  Capitalizing  on  Knowledge:  From  E-Business  to  K-Business. 
Butterworth-Heinemann:  Oxford,  Boston. 

Smith,  M.S.  and  Casserly,  C.M.  (2006).  “The  Promise  of  Open  Educational 
Resources.”  Change:  The  Magazine  of  Higher  Learning.  Sept. -Oct. 

2006;  38(5):  8 (EJ772126).  Available  from:  http://dx.doi.org/10.3200/ 
CHNG.38.5.8-17 

TEMOA  (2010).  TEMOA.  Open  Educational  Resources  Portal.  Retrieved  5 January 
2011  from:  www.temoa.info 

TEMOA  (2011a).  “Topics  and  Courses,  TEMOA.”  Open  Educational  Resources 
Portal.  Retrieved  24  February  2011  from:  www.temoa.info/schedules 

TEMOA  (2011b).  “Acceptance  Criteria  for  OER  Providers.”  Retrieved  17  January 
2011  from:  www.temoa.info/en/oer-criteria 

TEMOA  (2011c).  “Quality  Assurance:  Lifecycle  of  an  Open  Educational  Resource.” 
Retrieved  17  January  2011  from:  www.temoa.info/node/42112 

UNESCO  (2002).  “Forum  on  the  Impact  of  Open  Courseware  for  Higher 

Education  in  Developing  Countries.”  Financial  support  and  co-operation 
from  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  and  the  U.S. -based 
Western  Cooperative  for  Educational  Telecommunications  (WCET): 

Final  report.  UNESCO:  Paris.  Available  from:  http://unesdoc.unesco.org/ 
images/0012/001285/128515e.pdf 

UNESCO  (2011).  “Observatory  Portal:  Monitoring  the  Development  of  the 
Information  Society  towards  Knowledge  Societies.”  UNESCO:  Paris. 
Retrieved  6 January  2011  from:  www.unesco.org/webworld/observatory/ 


32 


CHAPTER 


365  Days  of  Openness:  The 
Emergence  of  OER  at  the  University 
of  Cape  Town 


Cheryl  Hodgkinson-Williams,  Michael  Paskevicius,  Glenda  Cox, 
Shihaam  Shaikh,  Laura  Czerniewicz  and  Samantha  Lee-Pan, 
University  of  Cape  Town 


Introduction 

Historically,  resources  such  as  books,  journals,  newspapers,  audio  and  video 
recordings  have  been  fairly  well  curated  in  university  libraries.  However,  the 
same  cannot  be  said  for  teaching  and  learning  materials,  unless  they  have  been 
included  in  a textbook  or  study  guide.  With  the  growth  in  digital  media,  libraries 
have  been  extending  their  curation  of  scholarly  resources  to  include  electronic 
journals,  digital  books  and  reference  guides,  broadening  access  to  these  beyond 
the  physical  walls  of  the  library. 

While  the  growth  in  digital  technology  has  prompted  academics  to  create  their 
own  customised  and  contextually  specific  digital  media  for  use  in  their  teaching 
in  the  form  of  PowerPoint  presentations,  manuals,  handbooks,  guides,  media 
resources  and  websites,  these  resources  are  most  often  stored  on  personal  hard 
drives,  on  departmental  servers  or  within  password-protected  institutional 
learning  management  systems.  Access  to  these  digital  materials  is  usually  limited 
to  registered  students  undertaking  specific  courses  within  specific  institutions 
and  usually  only  disseminated  by  individual  academics  or  departments. 

In  the  early  2000s,  institutions  such  as  MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology)  and  Rice  University  challenged  this  convention  of  locking  down 
teaching  and  learning  resources,  within  institutions  or  departments  or  by 
individuals,  by  opening  access  to  many  of  their  resources  to  the  rest  of  the  world 
as  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  (Abelson  and  Long  2008;  Baraniuk  2008). 
While  the  move  to  opening  education  resources  globally  was  inspiring,  UCT  had 
specific  local  drivers.  Not  only  are  university  textbooks  in  South  Africa  extremely 
expensive  — one  study  shows  that  they  can  cost  as  much  as  a third  of  a student's 
tuition  (Prabhala  2005)  — but  they  usually  lack  local  content,  context  and  case 
studies.  The  imperative  to  make  relevant  teaching  resources  available  has  also 


33 


extended  beyond  the  country,  given  the  broader  African  continental  need  for 
appropriate  and  available  teaching  resources.  In  April  2008,  UCT  joined  the 
open  movement  by  signing  the  Cape  Town  Open  Education  Declaration  (www. 
capetowndeclaration.org/),  thereby  committing  itself  to  making  a selection  of  its 
teaching  and  learning  materials  available  as  OER. 

In  this  chapter,  we  review  the  first  year  of  UCT’s  OER  initiative,  detailing  how 
it  came  into  existence  through  the  financial  support  of  the  South  African  based 
Shuttleworth  Foundation  for  a university-wide  research  project,  which  helped 
identify  existing  materials  that  could  be  shared  as  OER.  We  then  recount  how  the 
Centre  for  Educational  Technology  (CET)  developed  an  institutional  directory 
using  a customised  version  of  the  open  source  software  Drupal,  after  conducting 
an  analysis  of  potentially  suitable  software.  We  describe  the  metadata  standard 
selection  process  and  endeavour  to  position  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory 
within  the  OER  landscape.  We  explain  the  current  policy  environment  at  UCT 
that  influences  the  sharing  of  OER  and  how  the  OER  team  from  CET  went  about 
soliciting  content  from  academics  to  populate  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory; 
and  elaborate  on  how  the  project  developed  with  sustainability  principles  in  mind 
and  how  it  has  been  sustained  beyond  the  original  Shuttleworth  Foundation 
grant.  Finally,  we  highlight  the  signs  of  change  in  the  UCT  landscape  and 
explain  how  UCT  is  extending  its  open  footprint  through  a more  encompassing 
Open  UCT  initiative,  which  includes  open  research  (e.g.,  journal  articles  and 
e-books)  and  “grey”  materials  (e.g.,  research  project  reports,  briefing  papers  for 
government,  conference  presentations,  posters). 

The  Emergence  of  OER  at  UCT 

In  2007,  the  Shuttleworth  Foundation  funded  an  18-month-long  research  project, 
called  Opening  Scholarship,  to  explore  the  opportunities  that  digital  media 
and  open  dissemination  models  could  offer  for  enhanced  communication  and 
more  effective  knowledge  sharing  at  UCT.  A part  of  this  project  was  a review 
of  the  current  status  of  OER  in  South  Africa  and  at  UCT,  as  well  as  of  policy, 
organisational,  technological,  legal  and  financial  issues  that  would  need  to  be 
addressed  to  maximise  the  fragmented  approach  to  sharing  teaching  and  learning 
resources  by  individual  academics  at  UCT  (Hodgkinson-Williams  2009). 

Subsequent  to  this  research  project,  the  Shuttleworth  Foundation  funded  a year- 
long project  in  2009  to  implement  OER  at  UCT.  The  project  undertook  to: 

• develop  a central  UCT-branded  searchable  directory  of  OER  created  by  UCT 
staff  and  senior  students; 

• provide  process  and  infrastructure  support  to  UCT  staff  to  facilitate  the 
sharing  of  open  and  potentially  open  teaching  resources  as  OER,  published 
under  appropriate  licences  (such  as  Creative  Commons);  and 

• promote  the  visibility  of  UCT-published  OER  on  appropriate  search  engines, 
on  OER  aggregators  and  amongst  appropriate  target  communities. 

For  the  equivalent  of  about  USD  100,000,  the  OER  UCT  Project  (hosted  in  the 
Centre  for  Educational  Technology)  agreed  to,  and  delivered  on,  producing: 

• an  audit  of  existing  OER  at  UCT 

• a central  UCT-branded  directory  of  OER 


34 


• a set  of  online  support  resources  for  UCT  staff  on  publishing  OER 

• five  exemplar  OER  publications 

• the  transfer  of  skills  from  OER  specialists  contracted  during  the  project 
period  to  institutional  support  staff 

• a launch  event  for  the  UCT  OER  directory  with  follow-up  workshops  and 
seminars 

• a documented  case  study  of  an  institutional  OER  process. 

Also  in  2009,  the  Faculty  of  Health  Sciences  at  UCT  was  one  of  eight  institutions 
involved  in  the  formation  of  the  African  Health  OER  Network  (www.oerafrica.org/ 
healthoer/Home/tabid/1858/Default.aspx).  It  was  co -facilitated  by  OER  Africa  (an 
initiative  of  the  South  African  Institute  for  Distance  Education)  and  the  University 
of  Michigan,  and  funded  by  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation.  The 
Network  provided  support  and  funding  for  the  conversion  of  materials  to  OER 
in  the  Health  Faculty  at  UCT  and  contributed  some  of  the  initial  materials  to  the 
UCT  OpenContent  directory. 

Many  invaluable  lessons  were  learned  along  the  way.  These  are  highlighted  in  this 
chapter  for  those  considering  launching  an  OER  initiative  at  their  institution  or 
who  are  grappling  with  how  to  institutionalise  OER  initiatives  embryonically. 

The  OER  Project  Experience  at  UCT 

Bringing  Resources  from  “Below  the  Radar”  and  Into  View  at  UCT 

The  OER  team  consisted  of:  a Project  Director  from  CET  who  spent  about  20  per 
cent  of  her  time  on  the  project;  a part-time  Project  Manager  paid  by  the  OER 
project;  a Technical  Director  from  CET  who  spent  about  10  per  cent  of  his  time  on 
the  project;  and  two  part-time  graduate  assistants  also  paid  by  the  OER  project. 

The  initial  task  for  the  team  was  to  locate  potential  OER  from  existing  materials 
and  then  to  encourage  the  creation  of  OER.  The  former  process  was  quite 
challenging,  as  many  of  the  resources  that  were  already  being  shared  in  some  way 
were  often  difficult  to  find  because  they  were  buried  deep  within  departmental 
websites,  within  the  institutional  learning  management  systems  or  on  public 
social  media  sites.  However,  this  process  revealed  many  resources  already  being 
shared  on  the  Internet  by  academics  at  UCT.  The  problem  of  lack  of  visibility  was 
due  to  the  absence  of  metadata  — a necessary  component  that  attaches  descriptive 
information  to  a resource.  It  could  be  said  that  these  resources  were  being  “shared 
below  the  radar,”  as  it  was  the  intent  of  the  creators  that  they  be  shared,  but  the 
lack  of  metadata  meant  materials  were  not  easily  discoverable.  In  addition  to  the 
lack  of  metadata,  the  presence  of  copyrighted  images  embedded  in  some  materials 
limited  their  re-use.  Many  academics  were  under  the  impression  that  referencing 
of  graphics  such  as  photographs,  illustrations  and  cartoons  in  their  materials 
meant  they  could  be  used  and  distributed  for  teaching  and  learning  purposes. 
Furthermore,  most  of  the  materials  did  not  stipulate  any  usage  conditions,  making 
it  unclear  as  to  what  the  author  was  prepared  to  share  and  under  what  conditions. 

What  was  needed  was  awareness-raising  to  shed  light  on  options  that  would 
enable  the  inclusion  of  legally  shareable  images,  the  required  metadata  that  would 


35 


make  them  more  discoverable,  and  the  Creative  Commons  licence  that  explained 
the  conditions  under  which  these  materials  could  be  shared. 

Developing  the  OER  Directory:  UCT  OpenContent 

Having  explored  the  range  of  resources  already  being  shared  at  UCT,  the  OER 
team  was  aware  of  the  wide  variety  of  resources  and  associated  formats  that  would 
need  to  be  accommodated  in  the  planned  directory.  Many  of  the  educational 
resources  ranged  from  individual  images,  audio  podcasts,  videos  and  PowerPoint 
presentations  to  sets  of  interconnected  Web  pages.  In  order  to  provide  the  layer  of 
discovery  for  these  materials,  the  OER  team  explored  a number  of  strategies  that 
could  provide  the  functionality  of  an  OER  directory. 

Deciding  on  a Directory 

Starting  with  the  key  issues  of  discoverability,  the  team  gradually  built  up  a 
list  of  specifications  including  a series  of  “use-cases”  — scenarios  of  potential 
contributors  and  potential  users.  The  key  decision  emerging  out  of  this  process 
was  to  create  a directory  that  allowed  academics  the  functionality  to  add  materials 
to  the  directory  independently.  Unlike  institutions  such  as  MIT,  where  they  had  a 
group  of  educational  technologists  and  instructional  designers  to  help  academics 
rework  material  and  upload  it  to  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  UCT  did  not  have  that 
infrastructure  or  capacity  in  place. 

Hosting  Resources 

The  OER  team  decided  that  the  type  of  resource  should  dictate  the  most  suitable 
hosting  space.  For  instance,  images  could  be  best  hosted  on  websites  in  the  cloud 
such  as  Flickr  to  take  advantage  of  tagging,  linking  and  geo-tagging  facilities. 

It  was  decided  from  the  outset  that  the  planned  directory  should  operate  as  a 
portal  for  accessing  content  rather  than  hosting  content,  as  initial  investigations 
showed  that  most  teaching  materials  at  UCT  were  already  online.  Many  were 
being  hosted  in  the  local  open  source  Sakai  learning  management  systems,  “Vula” 
(which  means  “open”  in  a number  of  South  African  languages),  on  departmental 
websites,  or  on  public  social  media  sites.  All  of  these  could  be  easily  linked  to  the 
directory. 

Choosing  a Platform 

A scan  of  the  OER  projects  located  at  other  institutions  in  mid-2009  indicated  the 
use  of  the  popular  EduCommons  platform,  a customisation  of  the  Plone  content 
management  system.  The  OER  team  tested  Plone  (Version  3.3)  quite  thoroughly 
and  found  it  slightly  rigid  for  the  needs  of  the  OER  project.  Many  of  the  advanced 
content  protection  tools  were  unnecessary  for  the  planned  UCT  OER  directory, 
as  the  OER  team  intended  the  directory  to  be  open  and  accessible  to  encourage 
willing  academics  to  upload  and  later  revise  their  materials  themselves. 

The  popular  blogging  platform  WordPress  (Version  2.9)  was  also  tested  for  use  as 
an  OER  directory.  WordPress  is  recognised  as  a powerful  blogging  platform  that 
may  also  be  used  to  set  up  a quick  standard  website.  However,  the  team  found 
WordPress  unsuitable  for  the  OER  project  despite  its  extensive  functionalities. 


36 


While  WordPress  is  a powerful  system  for  creating  websites  and  blogs,  our 
analysis  showed  it  was  less  dynamic  when  dealing  with  custom  content  types  and 
associated  metadata. 

Finally,  the  OER  team  tested  Drupal  (Version  6.15),  a popular  content 
management  system  which  the  team  found  to  be  highly  adaptable  and 
customisable  through  the  various  modules  that  could  be  added  on  to  the  core 
package.  Modules  are  customisable  packages  which  alter  and  extend  Drupal’s 
core  capabilities,  adding  new  features  or  customising  Drupal's  behaviour  and 
appearance.  The  OER  team  was  also  able  to  obtain  excellent  support  from  the 
Drupal  user  community,  and  in  many  instances  was  able  to  pose  questions 
directly  to  the  programmers  who  had  written  the  source  code  for  the  modules. 

The  immediacy  and  specificity  of  the  support  proved  to  be  essential  as  the  OER 
team  customised  the  Drupal  software  to  create  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory 
(Figure  3.1).  Apart  from  employing  a Drupal  consulting  company  to  undertake  the 
specialist  programming  of  key  features  of  the  UCT  OpenContent  design,  all  the 
functional  customisation  was  undertaken  by  the  technical  team  in  CET. 


Figure  3.1:  UCT  OpenContent  directory  (www.opencontent.uct.ac.za). 

Contribute  Feedback  & Help  .A  Login 


UJ  UCT  OpenContent 


Sharing  online  resources  for  leaching  and  learning  • Deelbare  onderrig  en  leerbronne  • Ukwabelana  ngezixhobo  zokufundisa  nokufunda 


| Dlsabilty  end  Social 
Charge  A South 
African  agenda 
Brisn  Watermeyer, 
lesle  Swartz,  Theresa 
Lorenzo,  Marguerite 
Schneider,  Mart. 
Priestley  (eds) 


.=-  Cultural  Cltizensh© 
s~  and  Work)  Religions  fi 
■ — Religion  Education 

Professor  David 
Chldester 

Itodd  Clear  speaks  on 
Community  Justice 
Professor  SxM  Clear 


1 1* 

Faculties 

braries  physics 
\ Office  2007  GI  PC  A 

c lecture  how  to 

Commerce 

’olltlcs  climate  change 

Engineer  ng  and  the  Built 
Environment 

more  tags 

Health  Sciences 

Humanities 

Law 

Science 

Examination  of  the 
Nervous  System 
(V«J»  tutorial) 

Prof  Roland  Eastman 


All  recent  posts  □ 


The  Land  Question  in 
South  Africa: The... 
Lunglsfle  Ntsebeza,  Ruth 
Hdl  (eds) 


The  Protocols  of  the 
Elders  of  Zion 
Professor  Mltcn  Shaln 


Choosing  Metadata  Standards 

In  order  to  make  the  materials  on  UCT  OpenContent  globally  discoverable,  it  was 
essential  to  choose  an  internationally  acceptable  metadata  standard  used  in  the 
OER  landscape.  In  mid-2009,  OER  Commons  was  a widely  used  international  OER 
portal  and  the  team  decided  to  adopt  that  metadata  framework  to  ensure  that 
OER  Commons  could  easily  harvest  data  from  the  UCT  OpenContent  site.  The 
OER  Commons  metadata  framework  was  based  on  the  Dublin  Core  standard  and 
included  a few  additional  fields  particular  to  OER. 

The  OER  team  added  a field  called  “teaching  and  learning  context”  to  the  OER 
Commons  framework  to  enable  contributors  to  specify  how  the  resource  may  be 
used  in  an  educational  context.  A further  field  to  credit  a funder,  if  applicable, 
was  also  added  to  the  metadata  (Table  3.1).  The  metadata  attached  to  resources 
added  on  the  UCT  OpenContent  site  are  therefore  more  comprehensive  and  more 


37 


specific  to  OER  than  the  metadata  added  to  individual  items  hosted  elsewhere 
(e.g.,  Flickr).  So,  in  addition  to  providing  basic  metadata  about  the  digital  media, 
the  OpenContent  metadata  schema  aims  to  contextualise  how  the  resource  may 
be  useful  in  teaching  and  learning. 


Table  3.1 : Metadata  terms  selected  for  the  OER  Commons  metadata  framework 


Field 

Required 

Description 

Title 

Yes 

Give  your  resource  a descriptive  title. 

Authors 

Yes 

Enter  the  author(s)/creator(s)  of  the  resource. 

URL 

Yes 

Provide  the  Web  address  where  your  resource  is  stored  (e.g.,  Vula,  departmental 
server).  Note:  This  page  does  not  allow  you  to  upload  your  resource.  The  URL  you 
provide  gives  the  direct  link  to  where  the  resource  is  located. 

Abstract 

Yes 

Describe  the  content  of  the  resource  in  as  much  detail  as  possible. 

Teaching  and 
Learning  Context 

No 

Describe  the  recommended  learning  context  or  prerequisites  for  the  appropriate  use 
of  the  teaching  and  learning  tool.  This  can  be  as  simple  as  sharing  a story  of  how 
the  material  has  been  used  in  your  own  teaching. 

Funded  by 

No 

In  the  case  of  a resource  being  an  outcome  of  a funded  project,  please  specify  the 
funding  institution. 

OER  Image 

No 

You  are  encouraged  to  attach  an  image  which  represents  the  resource.  This  may  be 
an  image  from  within  the  material,  a screenshot  of  the  cover,  or  a relevant  graphic 
which  represents  the  contents.  If  you  do  not  provide  an  image,  a suitable  one  will  be 
selected  for  you  on  moderation. 

Creative 

Commons 

Licence 

Yes 

Submitting  a resource  to  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory  implies  the  desire  to  share 
your  educational  resource  with  the  world.  OER  UCT  recommends  the  Creative 
Commons  licence  because  it  protects  the  attribution  rights  of  the  creator  while 
allowing  others  to  make  free  use  of  the  material. 

Faculty 

Yes 

Select  the  faculty  in  which  the  material  was  created  or  the  faculty  the  material  most 
cohesively  represents. 

Department 

Yes 

Select  the  department  in  which  the  material  was  created  or  the  department  the 
material  most  cohesively  represents. 

Media  Types 

Yes 

Select  the  item  which  best  describes  the  document  type  of  your  resource. 

Material  Type 

Yes 

Select  the  item  which  best  describes  the  material  type  of  your  resource. 

Language 

Yes 

Select  the  language  in  your  resource  is  written. 

Level 

Yes 

Select  the  recommended  student  level  for  which  your  resource  is  intended. 

Tags 

Yes 

Please  add  tags  which  describe  your  resource  in  more  detail.  For  instance,  if  you 
selected  the  Faculty  of  Science  and  the  Department  of  Physics,  you  might  want  to 
tag  this  resource  with  something  like  “Newton's  Laws”  if  the  material  is  specifically 
about  that  topic. 

Another  specification  that  emerged  from  this  process  was  to  include  Google 
Analytics  within  the  planned  directory  so  that  the  OER  team  could  track  users, 
what  they  were  searching  for  and  which  resources  were  accessed  most  frequently. 

Figure  3.2  illustrates  the  type  of  directory  (sometimes  also  called  a “referatory”) 
that  the  UCT  OER  team  created  in  relation  to  those  created  by  other  institutional 
or  global  OER  entities  curating  OER  content  and  metadata. 


38 


Figure  3.2:  The  OER  curating  landscape  in  the  UCT  project. 


Curation  of 
metadata 


Institutional  referatory 

• Links  to  content  from  academics  from 
a specific  institution 

• Content  hosted  anywhere  online 
(Departmental  websites,  LMS,  Cloud 
services) 


Global  referatory 

• Aggregates  content  listings  from  global 
referatories  and  repositories 

• Links  and  provides  traffic  to  global 
referatories  and  repositories 

• Content  hosted  anywhere  online 

O E 0 

COMMONS 


Institutional  remixing  platforms 

• Allows  remixing  and  editing  of  content  on  site 

• Content  typically  created  locally  but  enables 
global  edits  and  unique  version  creation 


Institutional 

Global 

TUFTSOPENCOURSEWARE 


Institutional  repository 

• Allows  upload  and  hosts  resources  from 
local  content  providers 

• Traditionally  'closed'  but  opening  gradually 
MITOPENCOURSEWARE 

MASSACHUSETTS  INSTITUTt  OF  TECHNOLOGY 


T 

Curation  of 
content 


WMERLOT 

Multimedia  Educational  Resource 
for  Learning  and  Online  Teaching 

Global  repository 

• Allows  upload  and  hosts  resources 
from  global  content  providers 


Working  Without  a Formal  Policy 

Although  the  OER  team  had,  in  principle,  the  support  of  UCT’s  senior 
management  to  undertake  the  project,  there  was  no  formal  policy,  mandate  or  set 
of  procedures  in  place  obliging  academics  to  share  their  teaching  and  learning 
materials  outside  their  classroom.  There  is  no  regulation  forbidding  academics  to 
publish  a selection  of  their  materials  as  OER  at  UCT.  Fortunately,  the  OER  team 
found  many  cases  where  academics  were  already  sharing  materials.  The  team 
referred  to  these  academics  as  “institutional  champions  of  openness.” 

For  example,  academics  in  the  Physics  Department  had  been  publicly  sharing 
their  teaching  materials  and  laboratory  practicals  via  their  departmental  website 
for  years  before  the  term  “Open  Educational  Resources”  was  coined  by  UNESCO 
in  2002  (UNESCO  2002)  or  the  alternative  intellectual  property  licensing  system, 
Creative  Commons,  was  developed.  Likewise  academics  in  the  faculties  of  Health 
Science  had  been  sharing  complete  modules  in  Occupational  Health  on  a fairly 
limited  basis,  but  wanted  to  extend  the  reach  of  these  materials.  An  academic  in 
Microbiology  had  already  been  sharing  materials  on  Molecular  Virology  on  the 
Internet,  while  another  academic  from  Information  Systems  had  been  producing 
online  textbooks  to  offer  his  students  more  locally  relevant  and  less  costly 
textbooks. 

For  these  academics,  “open”  was  their  default  strategy  for  most  of  their  scholarly 
activities.  However,  for  the  OER  team,  the  concept  of  “open”  includes  the 
specification  of  a Creative  Commons  licence  chosen  by  the  academic  to  suit  the 
type  of  materials  being  shared.  For  example,  many  of  the  Physics  materials  are 
now  being  reworked  and  include  a Share-Alike  licence,  while  some  of  the  materials 
from  Health  Science  are  more  restrictive  and  include  a No-Derivatives  licence. 


39 


Working  without  a set  institutional  Creative  Commons  policy  allows  creators 
to  select  the  licence  they  feel  comfortable  with.  The  OER  team  recommends  the 
Creative  Commons  Attribution  Share-Alike  licence  (CC  BY-SA),  as  it  allows  for 
attribution  but  also  ensures  the  continued  openness  of  the  resource  due  to  the 
share-alike  provision.  This  provision  requires  users  of  a resource  to  apply  the 
same  licence  provisions  to  their  newly  created  resource.  In  advising  academics 
on  which  licence  to  choose,  the  team  would  ask  about  the  purpose  of  sharing 
their  resource,  whether  the  users  envisaged  at  any  point  making  money  from  the 
publication  of  the  resource,  and  how  they  felt  about  others  changing  any  aspect 
of  their  materials.  Furthermore,  the  team  would  assess  the  resources  used  within 
the  academics’  materials  to  ensure  licence  compatibility,  which  would  affect  the 
choice  of  licence. 

Soliciting  Content  from  Academics  and  Populating  the  Directory 

While  the  directory  was  being  developed,  the  first  challenge  of  the  OER  team  was 
to  encourage  academics  to  create  materials  that  were  planned  to  be  open  from 
the  inception.  Although  it  is  taking  some  time  for  these  “Born  Open”  materials 
to  be  developed,  the  OER  team  has  been  able  to  encourage  development  through 
awarding  small  development  grants  from  both  the  Shuttleworth  Foundation  and 
through  the  African  Health  OER  Network.  With  relatively  small  grants  of  about 
USD  1,000,  academics  adapted  existing  materials  or  created  new  materials  as 
OER.  The  process  of  adapting  existing  materials  was  usually  undertaken  by  senior 
students  within  the  same  department  as  the  lecturers  or  by  graduate  assistants 
employed  by  CET  or  the  Faculty  of  Health  Science.  Some  graphic-intensive 
materials  required  the  services  of  the  CET  graphic  artist  or  a CET  intern  to  create 
illustrations  to  replace  copyrighted  images,  particularly  cartoons,  which  had  been 
used  without  permission  in  some  materials.  In  many  cases,  problematic  images 
or  diagrams  within  resources  were  replaced  with  images  licensed  under  Creative 
Commons,  sourced  via  sites  such  as  Flickr. 

The  next  challenges  were:  getting  the  academics  to  ensure  that  they  either  held 
the  copyright  of  the  materials  or  were  given  permission  to  use  and  distribute  the 
materials;  identifying  a Creative  Commons  licence  that  matched  the  conditions 
under  which  they  wanted  to  share  their  materials;  and  adding  the  relevant 
metadata,  along  with  the  materials,  on  UCT  OpenContent  in  order  to  make  their 
materials  easily  discoverable. 

The  UCT  OpenContent  directory  was  launched  on  12  February  2010  with  21 
learning  resources  — 16  more  than  originally  agreed  on.  Eighteen  months  later, 
the  success  of  the  project  is  manifest  in  the  growth  of  UCT  OpenContent  to  148 
learning  resources  consisting  of  over  1,000  individually  accessible  resources. 
Learning  resources  consist  of  comprehensive  units,  teaching  modules,  e-books 
and  sets  of  lectures  where  a number  of  materials  are  combined  to  meet  an 
educational  outcome.  The  individual  resources  are  the  total  number  of  separate 
individual  materials  or  chunks  of  content  (e.g.,  graphics)  that  can  be  re-used  in 
different  contexts. 

Sustaining  the  OER  Initiative 

The  challenge  for  UCT  OpenContent  and  other  institutions  actively  supporting 
OER  is  that  “OER  initiatives  are  in  danger  of  running  aground”  as  they  suffer  from 


40 


“incompatibilities  with  existing  institutional  cultures  and  priorities”  (Friesen 
2009,  p.  1).  Like  other  institutions,  research  outputs  are  often  deemed  more 
“valuable”  than  teaching  materials  at  UCT  and  the  sharing  of  teaching  materials 
not  part  of  the  institutional  culture.  As  the  UCT  OpenContent  project  only  had 
one  year  of  donor  funding  and  no  direct  institutional  funding,  thoughts  about 
sustaining  the  project  were  considered  from  the  inception  of  the  project. 

Although  the  OER  project  formed  part  of  permanent  CET  staff  portfolios, 
the  majority  of  the  costs  of  the  project  were  covered  by  the  grant  from  the 
Shuttleworth  Foundation  that  supported  the  UCT  OER  project,  and  from  the 
William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  that  supported  the  African  Health  OER 
Network.  When  UCT  decided  to  embark  on  an  OER  initiative  in  2009,  these 
plans  were  informed:  by  the  sustainability  strategies  mentioned  in  the  literature 
(Downes  2007;  Wiley  2007);  through  reflection  on  the  recommendations  from 
the  OpeningScholarship  project  undertaken  at  UCT  in  2007/2008;  through 
personal  communication  with  members  of  other  OER  initiatives  (such  as  the 
University  of  Michigan’s  Open. Michigan  project);  and  through  an  in-house 
workshop  at  UCT  to  deliberate  the  future  strategy  for  the  sustainability  of  OER  at 
UCT  (Hodgkinson-Williams  and  Donnelly  2010,  p.  2). 

Through  iterations  of  deliberation,  the  OER  team  settled  on  the  following  key 
principles  for  ensuring  the  sustainability  of  the  UCT  OpenContent  initiative: 

• The  OER  initiative  would  be  resource-based  and  not  course-based  (i.e., 
based  on  individual  learning  resources  such  as  e-books,  manuals,  lectures 
captured  on  podcasts  or  webcasts,  lecture  notes  or  presentations),  so  that 
materials  from  the  current  collection  held  by  academics  could  be  made 
available  after  undergoing  a moderation  process  where  potential  third- 
party  copyright  issues  are  investigated.  This  moderation  process  might 
range  from  the  quite  simple  to  quite  complex,  depending  on  the  nature  of 
the  materials. 

• A “moderation”  process  by  the  OER  team  would  only  include  checking  for 
copyright  compliance  and  not  include  an  institutional  quality  assurance 
process,  so  the  responsibility  of  the  accuracy  of  the  resource  was  taken  by 
the  academic  author,  following  the  “pride-of-authorship”  model. 

• UCT  OpenContent  would  generally  not  host  resources,  but  rather  act  as 
a directory,  referring  to  where  the  resources  are  already  hosted  (on  the 
institutional  learning  management  system,  on  departmental  websites,  on 
the  Cloud,  etc.)  in  order  to  reduce  duplication  and  to  maximise  the  use  of 
existing  infrastructure. 

• The  software  selection  would  favour  open  source  software  to  reduce  costs, 
and  would  need  to  be  integrated  with  the  UCT  login  system.  A single  sign- 
on  service  would  be  provided  so  that  there  was  no  additional  username  and 
login  required  for  academics  to  contribute  their  resources. 

• The  software  would  need  to  allow  individual  academics  to  upload  and 
maintain  their  resources  directly  so  that  the  process  of  making  materials 
available  would  not  need  intermediary  technical  personnel. 

• The  management  of  the  OER  initiative  would  be  built  into  the  portfolio  of  the 
Curriculum  Development  Officer  in  CET,  as  this  person  already  deals  with 
supporting  the  development  of  digital  resources  for  teaching  and  learning. 


41 


• The  maintenance  of  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory  would  be  included  in 
the  portfolio  of  the  CET’s  Learning  Technologies  team. 

• The  OER  initiative  would  be  seen  as  part  of  a more  ambitious  OpenUCT 
project  that  included  making  research  and  community  engagement 
resources  available  to  the  general  public,  and  would  need  to  work 
collaboratively  with  these  “open”  initiatives  and  any  other  OER  initiative 
such  as  the  Health  OER  project  in  the  Faculty  of  Health  Sciences 
(Hodgkinson-Williams  and  Donnelly  2010,  pp.  3-4). 

To  date,  UCT  OpenContent  has  been  sustained  through  the  operationalising  of 
these  principles  and  through  optimising  synergies  with  other  departments  and 
other  institutions.  Emerging  activities  have  enabled  the  OER  team  to  extend  their 
“open  footprint,”  especially  in  terms  of  advocacy  for  OER.  Examples  included: 

• convening  a cross-institutional  short  course  on  using  ICTs  [information  and 
communication  technologies]  in  Education  for  a group  of  academics  from 
all  four  of  the  higher  education  institutions  in  the  Western  Cape  (University 
of  Cape  Town,  University  of  the  Western  Cape,  University  of  Stellenbosch 
and  Cape  Peninsula  University  of  Technology)  as  part  of  the  Cape  Higher 
Education  Consortium  (CHEC);  and 

• combining  forces  with  another  department  in  the  university  to  co-host 
a Teaching  and  Learning  Conference,  during  which  OER  issues  were 
discussed  and  OER  materials  distributed  to  about  170  UCT  academics. 


Signs  of  a Change  in  the  UCT  Landscape 

In  addition  to  the  presence  of  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory,  there  have  been 
simultaneous  positive  changes  in  the  UCT  landscape  that  bode  well  for  the 
continued  development  of  openness. 

The  first  is  the  recently  revised  university  intellectual  property  policy  which 
supports  open  licensing  such  as  Creative  Commons,  and  has  adopted  open  source 
as  the  default  for  teaching  and  research  related  to  software  development.  Also, 
the  premise  of  access  to  knowledge  that  underpins  the  OER  activities  is  echoed  in 
another  new  institution-wide  project,  the  Knowledge  Co-op  (www.knowledgeco- 
op.uct.ac.za/).  This  gives  external  constituencies  access  to  the  knowledge,  skills, 
resources  and  professional  expertise  within  the  university  around  problems  they 
experience.  It  also  provides  a framework  for  research  and  student  training  and 
learning  that  is  grounded  in  an  engagement  with  society. 

At  the  same  time  discussions  have  been  taking  place  about  managing 
participation,  contributing  local  knowledge  into  global  conversations,  broadening 
notions  of  impact,  increasing  visibility  and  harnessing  the  Internet  to  further 
enable  UCT’s  scholarship  for  innovation  and  for  development.  In  an  unusual 
approach,  UCT  is  planning  to  expand  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory  beyond 
the  resources  of  teaching  and  learning  to  include  all  scholarly  resources.  The 
OpenUCT  initiative  will  optimise  the  benefits  of  making  a selection  of  UCT’s 
scholarly  resources  in  the  widest  sense  — teaching,  learning  and  research  — more 
readily  available  to  the  broader  university  community  as  well  as  to  the  public. 

The  greatest  long-term  sustainability  vision  is  a culture  change  at  UCT,  as  at 
other  universities,  where  “open”  becomes  the  default  for  teaching  and  learning 


42 


materials,  for  research  outputs  in  all  forms,  and  possibly  also  for  research  data. 
Pressure  for  this  change  will  come  from  the  call  for  publicly  funded  higher 
education  to  benefit  the  public  at  large  — a point  especially  germane  in  a society 
as  divided  as  South  Africa.  Also  relevant  is  the  broader  social  shift  to  life  lived 
increasingly  online,  with  the  mechanism  of  access  to  the  Internet  often  being 
mobile  based. 

It  is  our  contention  that  OER  alone  will  not  change  the  entrenched  culture  of 
limiting  access  to  scholarly  materials,  even  while  it  is  an  important  wedge  in 
the  door.  We  believe  that  the  value  of  sharing  teaching  and  learning  resources 
will  need  to  be  monitored  and  proved.  Some  of  this  will  happen  through  the 
pedagogical  value  provided  to  students  within  the  specific  courses  for  whom 
the  materials  were  originally  created.  In  a context  where  throughput  rates  are  a 
matter  of  serious  concern,  access  to  appropriate  resources  is  critical.  Some  of  the 
value  will  result  from  the  access  to  resources  beyond  the  course  to  the  broader 
institutional  community,  with  application  both  for  generic  competencies  as 
well  as  contributions  to  cross-disciplinary  understandings.  Some  of  the  value 
will  be  through  cost  savings:  the  availability  materials  that  might  otherwise 
have  been  too  expensive  to  print  and  distribute  by  the  usual  channels  finding  a 
ready  platform.  And  some  value  may  accrue  from  recruitment  of  students  and 
cross-institutional  collaborative  course  development,  but  the  UCT  OpenContent 
initiative  is  still  too  new  to  have  sufficient  evidence  of  these  potential  OER 
benefits,  so  ongoing  institutional  research  is  essential. 

The  danger  is  that  without  some  evidence  of  the  benefit  of  making  a selection  of 
teaching  and  research  materials  available  publicly,  the  OER  initiative  will  be  short- 
lived, as  philanthropic  as  it  may  be. 


Open  Questions  and  Directions  for  Further  Research 

Through  our  experience  of  establishing  UCT  OpenContent,  a number  of 
unanswered  questions  still  remain.  Key  among  these: 

• Why  do  academics  choose  to  share  a selection  of  their  teaching  and 
learning  materials  as  OER  when  there  is  no  institutional  requirement  or 
incentive  to  do  so? 

• Is  their  choice  to  share  materials  on  UCT  OpenContent  or  any  other 
platform  linked  to  their  “digital  identity”? 

• What  are  the  key  constraints  that  inhibit  academics  from  sharing 
a selection  of  their  teaching  and  learning  materials  as  OER  on  UCT 
OpenContent  or  any  other  platform? 

• How  exactly  are  students,  self-learners,  other  academics  and  members  of  the 
public  using  the  resources  on  UCT  OpenContent? 

• Who  are  the  unexpected  readers  and  what  are  the  unanticipated  uses  of 
UCT  OpenContent  resources? 

• Which  resources  would  students,  self-learners,  other  academics  and 
members  of  the  public  like  to  have  available  on  UCT  OpenContent? 

• How  does  an  institutional  “directory”  compare  with  a repository  model? 


43 


• How  can  educational  analytics  help  to  map  the  OER  terrain  more  accurately 
and  immediately  and  identify  direct  or  indirect  return  on  investment? 

• How  does  the  existence  of  OER  change  the  ecology  of  learning  resources 
access,  availability  and  adequacy? 

• How  does  OER  challenge,  extend  or  improve  the  status  quo  of 
dissemination  of  scholarly  materials  at  universities? 

• How  can  OER  be  made  more  “discoverable”  and  most  appropriately 
targeted? 

• How  can  the  creation  and  use  of  OERs  improve  teaching,  learning  and 
pedagogy? 

Conclusion 

Although  a number  of  universities  around  the  world,  including  UCT,  have  joined 
the  open  movement  and  made  a selection  of  their  materials  available  as  OER, 
this  process  remains  “counter-culture”  and  disruptive.  The  UCT  OER  initiative, 
like  other  such  initiatives  around  the  world,  was  launched  with  funding  from 
donor  agencies  and  has  subsequently  had  to  find  ways  of  institutionalising  the 
management  of  OER. 

Some  of  the  key  strategies  included:  using  the  customisable  open  source  software, 
Drupal,  to  create  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory;  soliciting  content  from  willing 
academics;  capitalising  on  the  fact  that  academics  could  host  their  resources 
on  a range  of  institutional  and  public  sites;  encouraging  academics  to  add 
resources  to  the  directory  themselves;  absorbing  the  UCT  OpenContent  directory 
management  into  an  existing  portfolio;  and  extending  the  open  footprint 
through  the  more  encompassing  OpenUCT  initiative  that  includes  open  scholarly 
resources. 


Acknowledgements 

The  authors  would  like  to  thank  the  Shuttleworth  Foundation  and  the  William 
and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  for  funding  the  research  and  implementation 
projects  discussed  in  this  chapter. 


References 

Abelson,  H.  and  Long,  P.  (2008).  “MIT's  Strategy  for  Educational  Technology 
Innovation,  1999-2003.”  Proceedings  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and 
Electronics  Engineers  (IEEE)  96(6):  1-42.  Available  from:  http://dx.doi. 
org/10.1109/JPROC.  2008.921609 

Baraniuk,  R.G.  (2008).  “Challenge  and  Opportunities  for  the  Open  Education 
Movement:  A Connexions  Case  Study.”  In  Opening  Up  Education:  The 
Collective  Advancement  of  Education  Through  Open  Technology,  Open  Content 
and  Open  Knowledge.  Iiyoshi,  T.  and  Kumar,  M.S.V.  (eds.).  MIT  Press: 
Cambridge,  MA,  pp.  230-246. 


44 


Downes,  S.  (2007).  “Models  for  Sustainable  Open  Educational  Resources.” 
Interdisciplinary  Journal  of  Knowledge  and  Learning  Objects  3:  29-44. 
Retrieved  from:  www.downes.ca/cgibin/page. cgi?post=33401 

Friesen,  N.  (2009).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  New  Possibilities  for  Change  and 
Sustainability.”  The  International  Review  of  Research  in  Open  and  Distance 
Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  from:  www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/article/ 
view/664/1388 

Hodgkinson-Williams,  C.A.  (2009).  Sketching  the  Terrain:  Open  Educational 
Resources  for  Teaching  and  Learning  at  the  University  of  Cape  Town. 
Institutional  report  2.  Retrieved  from:  www.cet.uct.ac.za/files/file/OS%20 
Institutional%20report2%20_%20%20Final%20typeset.pdf 

Hodgkinson-Williams,  C.A.  and  Donnelly,  S.  (2010).  “Sustaining  OER  at  the 

University  of  Cape  Town:  Free,  but  Not  Cheap.”  OpenEd  2010  Conference, 
Barcelona,  2-4  November  2010.  Retrieved  from:  http://openaccess.uoc. 
edu/webapps/o2/bitstream/10609/4843/6/Hodgkinson.pdf 

Prabhala,  A.  (2005).  “Economic  Analysis  of  Income  and  Expenditure  Patterns 

in  South  Africa:  Implications  for  the  Affordability  of  Essential  Learning 
Materials.”  A2LMSA  working  paper,  Johnnesburg.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
aca2k.org 

UNESCO  (2002).  “UNESCO  Promotes  New  Initiative  for  Free  Educational 

Resources  on  the  Internet.”  Retrieved  from:  www.unesco.org/education/ 
news_en/080702_free_edu_ress.shtml 

Wiley,  D.  (2007).  “On  the  Sustainability  of  Open  Educational  Resource 

Initiatives  in  Higher  Education.”  Paper  commissioned  by  the  OECD’s 
Centre  for  Educational  Research  and  Innovation  (CERI)  for  the  project 
on  Open  Educational  Resources.  Retrieved  from:  www.oecd.org/ 
dataoecd/33/9/38645447.pdf 


45 


CHAPTER 


Open  Educational  Resources 
University:  An  Assessment  and 
Credit  for  Students  Initiative 


Rory  McCreal, 

Athabasca  University 

Wayne  Mackintosh, 

OER  Foundation 

lim  Taylor, 

University  of  Southern  Queensland 


Introduction 

The  OER  university  (OERu)  is  a consortium  of  20  post-secondary  institutions 
and  organisations  (as  of  September  2012)  collaborating  in  the  development  of 
OER  pathways  for  learning.  A list  is  provided  at  the  end  of  this  chapter.  These 
pathways  lead  to  formal  post-secondary  assessments  and  credits  for  learners  who 
study  informally  online  and  who  desire  formal  recognition  of  their  efforts  from 
recognised  public  institutions.  The  OERu  members  are  committed  to  identifying 
these  pathways  using  OER. 

The  concept  of  open  education  encapsulates  a simple  but  powerful  idea:  that 
the  world's  knowledge  is  a public  good  and  that  the  open  Web  provides  an 
extraordinary  opportunity  for  everyone  to  share,  use  and  re-use  knowledge. 
This  represents  a significant  opportunity  for  universities  to  return  to  the  core 
values  of  the  academy  — namely,  to  share  knowledge  for  the  benefit  of  society. 

Educators  have  a natural  propensity  to  collaborate  (Chow  2010).  The  nature 
of  the  academy  requires  sharing  knowledge  and  building  upon  the  ideas  of 
others.  An  experienced  researcher  knows  that  a thorough  literature  review  of 
existing  knowledge  is  the  starting  point  in  resolving  a research  question.  In 
research,  universities  have  no  issue  with  sharing  and  building  on  the  ideas  of 
others,  yet  in  teaching  there  is  a perception  that  we  must  lock  our  teaching 
materials  behind  restrictive  copyright  regimes  that  minimise  sharing  at 
the  expense  of  learning.  OER  provide  a unique  opportunity  to  expand  and 
integrate  research  traditions  associated  with  the  notion  of  building  on  the 
ideas  of  others  into  our  teaching  practice.  In  this  way,  universities  can  leverage 
the  potential  of  the  Internet  and  open  education  for  research-led  teaching  and 
learning. 


47 


Universities  are  one  of  a handful  of  organisations  that  survived  the  Industrial 
Revolution.  It  is  plausible  that  history  will  repeat  itself  in  the  digital  age.  The 
traditions  of  rational  and  reflective  practice  of  the  academy  will  contribute  to 
building  sustainable  futures  for  the  university  and  the  institution’s  rightful 
place  in  society  as  we  move  forward  in  the  OER  world.  Brown  and  Duguid 
(1995)  have  alluded  to  the  risks  that,  in  a digital  age,  blind  adoption  of 
technology-mediated  degrees  without  due  understanding  of  the  institutional 
character  and  culture  of  the  university  could  impact  on  the  value  society 
attributes  to  post-secondary  credentials.  Digital  learning  and  OER,  for 
instance,  could  lead  to  a new  form  of  elitism  where  the  perception  associated 
with  online  degrees  using  OER  would  not  command  the  same  respect  as 
campus-based  alternatives.  In  this  regard,  the  awarding  of  credentials  by  the 
university  is  an  important  determinant  for  credibility  and  quality  because  this 
function  depends  on  the  value  that  a community  of  scholars  actively  engaged 
in  research  can  provide. 

Universities  can  be  actively  engaged  in  designing  appropriate  futures  for  credible 
assessment  in  the  OER  world.  Processes  appropriate  for  the  assessment  of  digital 
learning  using  OER  hosted  on  the  Web  need  to  be  properly  researched  and 
implemented  with  the  academic  rigour  required.  Tapscott  and  Williams  (2010) 
suggest  that  universities  may  be  losing  their  grip  on  higher  learning  because 
changing  models  of  pedagogy  and  knowledge  production  may  necessitate 
changes  in  how  we  credentialise.  The  OERu  project  provides  a contribution 
to  building  what  Brown  and  Adler  (2008)  have  called  an  “open  participatory 
learning  ecosystem”  — an  ecosystem  in  which  formal  education  institutions 
have  an  important  role  to  play  by  augmenting  opportunities  for  open  learning, 
assessment  and  credentialisation. 

Individuals  are  free  to  learn  from  OER  and  other  digital  learning  materials  hosted 
on  the  Internet.  The  problem  is  that  learners  who  access  these  digital  learning 
materials  on  the  Web  and  acquire  knowledge  and  skills  either  formally  or 
informally,  alone  or  in  groups,  cannot  readily  have  their  learning  assessed  nor  can 
they  subsequently  receive  appropriate  academic  recognition  for  their  efforts. 


Proposed  Solution 

The  knowledge,  research  and  experience  of  the  large-scale  open  distance  learning 
institutions  in  providing  assessment  services  at  a distance,  combined  with 
refinements  to  existing  protocols  for  Prior  Learning  Assessment  and  Recognition 
(PLAR),  could  open  pathways  for  student  assessment  and  credit  services  where 
traditional  delivery  models  are  unable  to  respond  to  the  growing  need  for  post- 
secondary education  worldwide. 

The  OERu  has  been  established  to  provide  affordable  access  to  post-secondary 
education  for  the  estimated  increase  of  more  than  100  million  learners  in  the 
world  who  will  be  qualified  for  a seat  in  tertiary  education  over  the  next  15  years 
who,  because  of  funding  issues  or  lack  of  tertiary  education  provision,  will  not 
be  able  to  gain  credible  qualifications  (Daniel  1996).  The  core  mission  of  the 
university  is  to  contribute  to  society  as  a community  of  scholars  through  the 
pursuit  of  education,  learning  and  research.  The  OERu  can  support  such  a mass 
community,  as  shown  in  Figure  4.1. 


48 


Figure  4.1 : Concept  for  an  OER  for  assessment  and  credit  initiative  (adapted  from 
Taylor  2007). 


Students 

awarded 

credible  degree  or 
credential 


Participating 
institutions  grant 
credit  for 


Open  assessment 
from  participating 
institutions 


Open  student 
support  via 

"Academic  Volunteers 
International" 


Learners 
access  courses 
based  solely 
on  OER 


With  OER,  it  is  possible  to  learn  globally  but  accredit  locally.  While  it  is 
possible  for  individual  universities  to  provide  academic  credit  through  PLAR 
methodologies,  the  Internet  provides  unprecedented  opportunities  for 
universities  to  collaborate  on  the  development  of  a sustainable  and  scalable 
OER  ecosystem  whereby  students  can  achieve  credible  qualifications  using 
open  access  materials  from  around  the  world.  In  addition,  the  complexities  of 
credit  transfer  and  course  articulation  across  geographical  boundaries  call  for  a 
collaborative  networked  solution  for  addressing  transnational  online  learning  and 
credentialisation. 

The  OERu  has  been  modelled  on  the  university  equivalent  of  industry's  co- 
opetition  model.  That’s  when  companies  work  together  for  selected  parts  of 
their  business  where  they  do  not  believe  they  have  competitive  advantage,  and 
consequently  agree  to  collaborate  in  areas  where  they  can  share  common  costs. 
Consider,  for  example,  the  collaboration  between  Toyota,  Peugeot  and  Citroen 
who  share  design,  component  parts  and  a jointly  owned  manufacturing  plant 
to  produce  competing  “city  cars.”  Similarly,  universities  can  collaborate  on 
components  of  the  OER  ecosystem  to  achieve  cost  advantage,  while  retaining 
autonomy  over  core  credential  services. 

More  than  a decade  ago,  Gibbons  (1998)  highlighted  the  imperative  for 
universities  to  form  alliances  and  partnerships  in  response  to  the  interplay  among 
the  massification  of  higher  education,  fundamental  shifts  in  the  modalities  of 
knowledge  production  and  technology  interchange. 

The  imperative  for  collaboration  and  alliances  has  now  increased  as  a result  of  the 
changing  dynamics  associated  with  the  ownership  of  ideas  through  open  content 
licensing  in  a digital  age.  It  will  become  increasingly  difficult  for  universities  to 
forge  and  sustain  competitive  advantage  in  the  higher  education  system  through 
closed  teaching  resources,  as  emerging  partnerships  are  formed  in  the  OER  arena 
and  foster  collaboration. 


49 


The  appearance  of  edX,  a partnership  of  three  of  the  world's  leading  universities 
(MIT,  Harvard  and  the  University  of  California,  Berkeley),  is  an  example  of  the 
need  for  collaboration  and  alliances  in  the  OER  arena.  Likewise,  the  private 
sector  Coursera  initiative,  partnering  with  “elite”  universities  in  the  USA, 
Canada,  Europe  and  Asia,  is  another  example  of  these  types  of  open  emerging 
partnerships.  Non-university  initiatives  like  Udacity  are  also  offering  courses 
with  certificates  that  are  beginning  to  be  accepted  by  some  employers.  There  are 
also  start-ups  in  Latin  America  and  the  UK,  called  WeduboX  and  FutureLearn, 
respectively. 


Context 

Open  access  technologies,  combined  with  contemporary  shifts  in  the  ownership 
of  ideas  in  a digital  age,  may  change  the  way  universities  view  their  place  in 
the  higher  education  market  by  refocusing  strategic  approaches  to  course 
development  and  collaboration.  Five  significant  trends  and  factors  point  to 
the  potential  for  disruptive  innovation  (Christensen  et  al.  2006)  in  online 
learning  provision  — that  is,  where  new  services  take  root  in  simple  applications 
at  the  bottom  of  a market  and  then  eventually  displace  established  market 
propositions: 

1 . Unsatisfied  global  demand  for  post-secondary  education 

2.  Growing  inventory  of  open  access  learning  materials  on  the  Internet 

3.  The  burgeoning  phenomenon  of  institutions  providing  access  to  free- 
tuition  learning 

4.  The  potential  for  shifts  in  the  organisational  cost  structures  for  the  design, 
development  and  provision  of  asynchronous  learning 

5.  The  potential  for  reconfiguring  existing  protocols  for  assessment  and 
accreditation  of  OER  learning 

Unsatisfied  Global  Demand  for  Post-Secondary  Education 

According  to  UNESCO  (2009),  there  were  almost  153  million  post-secondary 
students  worldwide  in  2007,  a 53  per  cent  increase  since  the  year  2000  and  a five- 
fold increase  in  less  than  40  years.  The  demand  for  higher  education  is  predicted 
to  expand  from  97  million  students  in  2000  to  over  262  million  students  by 
2025. 

Daniel  (1996)  reported  that  a major  new  university  would  need  to  be  created  each 
week  to  address  the  anticipated  demand.  Usher  (2007)  of  the  Educational  Policy 
Institute  predicted  that  the  number  of  students  in  post-secondary  education  will 
more  than  double  in  the  next  decade.  Daniel  et  al.  (2007)  report  that  “India  alone 
would  need  nearly  2400  additional  universities  in  the  next  25  years  — or  roughly 
two  new  universities  per  week.” 

This  level  of  demand  exceeds  the  capacity  of  the  existing  system  to  deliver,  and 
suggests  it  is  not  economically  viable  to  continue  to  build  new  universities.  The 
magnitude  of  unsatisfied  demand  for  post-secondary  provision  provides  a solid 
economic  imperative  for  an  OER  for  assessment  and  credit  for  students’  projects. 


50 


Growing  Inventory  of  Open  Access  Learning  Materials 

Thousands  of  course  modules  are  currently  available  online,  both  commercial 
and  free  from  respected  institutions.  There  are  also  millions  of  websites  that  can 
be  used  to  support  a wide  variety  of  learning  outcomes.  Consider  the  following 
open  access  examples: 

• The  OpenCourseWare  Consortium  has  indexed  more  than  4,000  high- 
quality  university-level  courses  (Heller  2010) 

• The  OpenLearn  website  hosted  by  the  Open  University  UK  provides  free 
access  to  over  8,000  hours  of  learning  materials 

• More  than  6,000  journals  are  listed  in  the  Directory  of  Open  Access  Journals 
(Directory  of  Open  Access  Journals  2011) 

• AU  Press,  hosted  by  Athabasca  University,  Canada’s  first  open  access 
scholarly  press,  hosts  more  than  180  scholarly  works,  including  several 
textbooks,  and  augments  access  to  scholarly  publications  (AU  Press  2013: 
www.aupress.ca). 

The  Burgeoning  Phenomenon  of  Free-Tuition  Courses 

Growth  in  the  Internet  and  social  media  are  contributing  to  an  increased  number 
of  tree-tuition  courses  being  offered  online. 

Presently,  more  than  4 billion  people  have  reasonable  access  to  the  Internet. 

More  than  1.3  billion  of  those  do  so  using  mobile  devices  like  cell  phones,  tablets, 
e-books  and  notebooks  (Chapman  2010;  International  Telecommunications 
Union  2010).  Corresponding  with  increased  access  to  the  Internet,  post-secondary 
institutions  need  to  consider  the  impact  of  social  media  technologies.  Social 
media  encompasses  a range  of  contemporary  Web-based  technologies  that 
facilitate  scalable  and  interactive  communication  around  the  creation  and 
exchange  of  user-generated  content.  Half  of  the  top  ten  most-visited  websites  of 
the  world  are  social  media  websites  (e.g.,  Facebook,  YouTube,  Blogger,  Wikipedia, 
Twitter)  and  it  is  estimated  that  social  media  accounts  for  22  per  cent  of  all  time 
spent  online  in  the  U.S.  (Nielson  Company  2010). 

Coursera,  edX  and  Udacity  are  mentioned  in  Chapter  1,  but  also  consider  the 
following  examples  of  courses  offered  at  no  cost  to  the  learner: 

• The  FlexiLearn  website  at  Indira  Gandhi  National  Open  University 
(IGNOU)  provides  free  and  open  access  to  a wide  number  of  degree  course 
materials  at  the  university,  and  the  government  is  sponsoring  tuition 
services  (IGNOU  2009). 

• The  OpenLearn  initiative  of  the  Open  University  UK  reported  that  over 
10,000  students  accessing  free  courses  have  converted  to  being  fully 
enrolled  students  (McAndrew  and  Lane  2010). 

• Otago  Polytechnic  in  New  Zealand  has  adopted  a default  Creative 
Commons  Attribution  intellectual  property  policy,  thus  facilitating 
the  potential  shift  to  free  access  to  all  courses  offered  by  the  institution 
(WikiEducator  2011). 

• The  connectivist-based  Massive  Open  Online  Courses  (MOOCs)  (see,  for 
example:  Fini  2009;  Parry  2010),  which  use  the  open  Web  and  social  media 


51 


to  offer  courses  to  large  cohorts  of  both  for-credit  and  free  non-credit 
students  in  the  same  course,  frequently  register  more  than  1,000  learners. 

• The  University  of  the  People,  a non-profit  institution  headquartered  in 
Pasadena,  California,  provides  universal  access  to  free-tuition  courses 
and  has  accepted  students  from  110  different  countries.  At  present,  the 
university  is  not  an  accredited  institution,  but  is  preparing  to  apply  for 
accreditation  in  the  U.S.  (University  of  the  People  2011). 

• The  Saylor  Foundation,  launched  by  Michael  Saylor,  an  American 
entrepreneur  with  a pledge  of  USD  100  million,  now  hosts  more  than  60 
free  university  courses  (Saylor  Foundation  2012). 

The  Potential  for  Shifts  in  the  Cost  Structures  for  the  Design, 
Development  and  Provision  of  Asynchronous  Learning 

There  are  two  fundamental  changes  in  the  potential  cost  structures  afforded  by 
digital  technologies  and  open  content  licensing: 

• The  marginal  cost  of  replicating  digital  knowledge  is  near  zero.  Therefore, 
with  open  content  licensing,  there  are  significant  opportunities  to  reduce 
the  costs  associated  with  reproducing  and  maintaining  online  courses. 

• Through  networked  collaboration,  the  design  and  development  costs  for 
producing  high-quality  OER  can  be  shared  among  multiple  institutions 
while  still  allowing  individual  institutions  the  freedom  to  brand  course 
materials  and  adapt  them  for  local  contexts. 

The  Potential  for  Reconfiguring  Existing  Protocols  for  Accreditation 
of  OER  Learning 

Providing  assessment  at  a distance  and  developing  mechanisms  for  assessing 
prior  learning  are  not  new.  Both  approaches  lend  themselves  to  being  refined 
and  adapted  for  use  in  OER  courses  designed  for  independent  study  by  the  OERu 
consortium. 

Research  and  experience  from  technology-mediated  learning  in  higher  education, 
most  notably  that  derived  from  the  provision  of  open  distance  learning,  will 
enable  institutions  to  design  appropriate  and  scalable  solutions  for  formative  and 
summative  assessment  at  a distance  for  OER  learners. 

While  the  disaggregation  of  teaching  services  from  credentialing  services  may  not 
be  common  practice  at  most  universities,  this  has  been  done  successfully  in  the 
past.  One  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  the  University  of  London  commenced  with 
its  external  degree  programme  “on  the  radical  principle  that  it  didn’t  care  how  you 
acquired  the  knowledge  provided  you  could  pass  the  exam”  (Daniel  2011a).  So,  for 
example,  the  University  of  London  proctored  its  first  international  examinations 
at  a distance  in  1865.  The  University  of  London’s  external  degree  programme  has 
produced  five  Nobel  laureates. 

Prior  Learning  Assessment  and  Recognition  (PLAR)  potentially  provides 
opportunities  for  the  transfer  of  approaches,  methodologies  and  policy  protocols 
(assessment  and  credentialising  policies,  etc.)  for  the  OERu  network.  PLAR  is 
a recognised  process  used  by  many  post-secondary  institutions  to  evaluate 


52 


learning  outside  the  classroom  for  non-traditional  learners  (those  who  study 
independently  usually  not  for  credit)  to  gain  academic  credit  (Zucker  et  al.  1998; 
CLFDB  1999;  Bowman  et  al.  2003). 

There  are,  however,  unresolved  challenges.  PLAR  methodologies  are  currently 
very  labour  intensive  and  unlikely  to  scale  well  for  large  numbers  of  learners. 
Approaches  and  models  for  national  assessment  and  accreditation  vary 
considerably  around  the  world  (COL  and  SAQA  2008,  p.  7). 

In  a digitally  connected  world,  the  harmonisation  of  qualification  articulation 
across  legal  boundaries  could  contribute  to  significant  savings  and  reductions 
in  duplication  of  effort.  Consequently,  there  is  growing  interest  in  the  area 
of  standardisation  and  articulation  of  qualification  frameworks  among 
international  agencies  (COL  and  SAQA  2008,  p.  7).  The  pioneering  work  led  by  the 
Commonwealth  of  Learning  to  develop  a Transnational  Qualifications  Framework 
for  the  Virtual  University  for  Small  States  of  the  Commonwealth  provides  useful 
insights  into  resolving  these  issues  (COL  and  SAQA  2008). 

The  OERu  has  the  following  core  components: 

• OER  collaboration  network  - covers  those  activities  where  cross- 
institutional  collaboration  is  more  effective  than  institution-based  service 
provision 

• Educational  institution  services  - refer  to  the  fee-for-service  initiatives 
that  will  be  provided  by  participating  post-secondary  institutions  on  a cost- 
recovery  basis 

• OER  support  infrastructure  - incorporates  the  cross-cutting  infrastructure 
needed  to  support  a scalable  network  for  OER,  including  ICT  and  a business 
model 

Each  component  can  be  subdivided  into  a number  of  initiatives  that  together 
constitute  a logic  model  for  the  planning  and  implementation  of  the  OERu 
concept.  The  OERu  logic  model  distinguishes  between  free  learning  and 
assessment  services  that  are  provided  on  a fee-for-  service  basis  (Figure  4.2) 

Learners  may  choose  to  enrol  at  formal  education  institutions  in  the  traditional 
way  or  to  learn  from  OER  freely  available  on  the  Internet  or  using  OER  courses 
assembled  by  the  OERu  partners.  The  OERu  project  aims  to  design  and  implement 
appropriate  solutions  by  establishing  a collaboration  network  whereby  assessment 
and  credentialing  services  can  be  provided  by  participating  institutions  on  a 
cost-recovery  basis  or  funded  through  scholarships  or  grants  from  their  respective 
ministries  of  education  or  other  sources. 

The  project  aims  to  facilitate  pathways  for  OER  learners  to  gain  credible 
credentials  from  participating  institutions  that  are  formally  accredited/officially 
recognised  in  their  national  jurisdictions.  Quality  assurance  and  institutional 
accreditation  is  the  foundation  on  which  this  parallel  learning  universe  is  based. 
The  OERu  must  ensure  equivalence  and  parity  of  esteem  for  qualifications  gained 
through  this  OER  network.  Resources  and  systems  used  to  support  the  OER  project 
will  be  available  for  re-use  and  repurposing  in  the  formal  sector,  thus  contributing 
to  improved  efficiencies  and  greater  return  on  investment  for  participating 
institutions. 


53 


Figure  4.2:  Logic  model  for  the  OERu,  providing  a systemic  perspective  of  main  initiatives 
for  building  a sustainable  OER  ecosystem. 


OER  UNIVERSITY  EDUCATIONAL 

Open  Collaboration  INSTITUTIONS 


o 


‘o' 


OER  SUPPORT  INFRASTUCTURE 

Open  Business 

Open  ICT 

Open  Student 

Models 

Infrastructure 

Adminstration 

Free  OER  Learning  c[;  Fee  forService 

QUALITY  ASSURANCE:  INSTITUTIONAL  ACCREDITATION 


Learners 


Open 

Assessment 

Services 

Open 

Credential  Credible 

Services  — ^ Qualifications 

Open 

Community 

Service 


The  outputs  of  the  OERu  initiative  will  also  add  value  to  existing  tertiary 
education  systems  worldwide,  because  OERu  courses  and  support  systems  can  be 
integrated  into  the  mainstream  model. 


Intended  Impact 

The  overall  aim  of  the  OERu  project  is  to: 

• develop  and  implement  a sustainable  and  scalable  ecosystem  that  can 
support  open  learning  opportunities  for  all  students  worldwide  using  OER; 
and 

• provide  pathways  for  OER  learners  to  obtain  credible  certification  and 
qualifications  from  accredited  institutions  within  national  education 
systems  inputs. 

A number  of  important  building  blocks  already  exist  for  input  into  the  OERu 
project: 

• OER  assets:  There  is  a rapidly  growing  inventory  of  existing  international 
educational  resources,  which  can  be  integrated  into  the  open  pedagogy 
model  envisaged  by  the  project.  These  include  open  access  content,  open 
access  journals,  open  textbooks,  and  open  applications. 

• Existing  expertise:  There  is  a wealth  of  transferable  experience  from 
distance  education  and  open  and  distance  learning  to  support  the  design 
and  development  of  the  project.  In  addition,  participants  in  the  free 
software  movement  have  gained  extensive  experience  in  open  models  and 
approaches  to  building  sustainable  open  systems.  As  an  OER  initiative, 


54 


the  project  would  be  committed  to  transparent  and  open  planning,  thus 
enabling  wide  participation  by  OER  thought-leaders  and  practitioners  from 
around  the  world. 

• Financial  resources:  Financial  resources  (including  contributions  in  time) 
from  participating  institutions  and  external  donor  funding  for  strategic 
elements  will  be  needed  to  address  gaps  in  available  OERs  and  the  design  of 
new  components  of  the  OER  for  student  assessment  and  credit  project. 

• Participating  institutions:  The  project  requires  a critical  mass  of 
participating  institutions  for  awarding  formal  academic  credit  for  OER 
university  courses.  The  network  has  achieved  this  milestone.  Thirteen 
accredited  institutions  from  Africa,  Asia,  Oceania  and  North  America 
convened  for  the  inaugural  meeting  of  OERu  founding  anchor  partners 
in  November  2011.  Membership  of  the  network  continues  to  grow  at  a 
steady  pace.  These  OERu  partners  have  agreed  to  award  credit  for  the  OERu 
courses.  As  an  open  project,  all  post-secondary  institutions  that  care  about 
sharing  knowledge  as  a core  value  of  education  will  be  free  to  contribute 
to  the  planning  of  the  project  and  subsequent  implementation  of  more 
sustainable  education  futures. 

• ICT  infrastructure:  Reliable  and  scalable  open  source  software  systems 
exist  for  implementing  the  OER  networked  collaboration. 


Initiatives 

To  facilitate  planning  and  co-ordination  across  national  boundaries,  the  project 
is  sub-divided  into  a number  of  initiatives,  including  Open  Curriculum,  Open 
Design  and  Development,  Open  Pedagogy,  Open  Student  Support,  Open 
Assessment  Services,  Open  Credential  Services,  Open  Community  Service,  Open 
Business  Models,  Open  ICT  Infrastructure,  and  Open  Student  Administration. 
Each  initiative  includes  a number  of  activities  (with  corresponding  inputs, 
outputs,  milestones,  key  performance  indicators  and  outcomes),  ultimately 
contributing  to  the  implementation  of  the  OERu  project. 

The  logic  model  aims  to  be  sufficiently  robust  to  accommodate  the  requirements 
for  credible  certification  within  the  formal  education  sector,  so  learners  and 
society  will  have  confidence  in  the  qualifications  but  also  be  flexible  enough  to 
leverage  the  potential  that  OER  offers  for  re-use  and  repurposing  for  local  learning 
contexts. 


From  Logic  Model  to  Plan  for  Action 

Sir  John  Daniel  (2011b)  confirms  that  the  “OER  university”  and  the  OER  for 
assessment  and  credit  for  students  concept  have  the  potential  to  reduce  the  cost 
of  higher  education  dramatically,  and  supports  the  “examination-only”  concept. 
He  has  commended  anchor  partners  for  engaging  in  the  movement  as  part  of  its 
community  service  mission.  The  OERu  has  reached  the  following  development 
milestones: 

• 20  anchor  partners  now  form  a critical  mass  and  foundation  for  the  future 
development  of  the  OERu;  and 


55 


• the  partners  are  on  five  continents  and  consist  of  14  universities,  four 
colleges  and  two  non-teaching  organisations. 

Anchor  partners  have  now  identified  the  Bachelor  of  General  studies  as  an 
achievable  goal  and  the  first  prototype  courses  in  this  degree  will  be  delivered  in 
the  near  future  along  with  viable  assessments  at  several  of  the  partner  universities 
and  colleges. 

OERu  partners  have  identified  champions  for  supporting  the  development  of  the 
various  activities.  This  planning  has  been  (and  will  continue  to  be)  conducted 
openly  and  transparently  so  that  multiple  organisations  can  participate,  thus 
avoiding  duplication  of  effort. 

The  OERu  partners  will  officially  launch  the  OERu  in  2013,  drawing  on  the 
experience  from  the  prototyping  phase. 

List  of  OERu  anchor  partners: 

Universities: 

• Athabasca  University  (Canada) 

• Dr  Babasaheb  Ambedkar  Open  University  (India) 

• Empire  State  College  - SUNY  (USA) 

• Excelsior  College  (USA) 

• Kwantlen  Polytechnic  University 

• Southern  New  Hampshire  University  (USA) 

• Thomas  Edison  State  College  (USA) 

• Thompson  Rivers  University  (Canada) 

• Universitat  Oberta  de  Catalunya 

• University  of  Glamorgan  (UK) 

• University  of  Canterbury  (New  Zealand) 

• University  of  South  Africa 

• University  of  the  South  Pacific 

• University  of  Southern  Queensland  (Australia) 

• University  of  Wollongong  (Australia) 

Community  colleges,  institutes  of  technology  and  polytechnics: 

• Nelson-Marlborough  Institute  of  Technology  (New  Zealand) 

• NorthTec  (NZ) 

• Open  Polytechnic  (NZ) 

• Otago  Polytechnic  (NZ) 

• Unitec  Institute  of  Technology  (NZ) 

• WinTec  (NZ) 

Organisations: 

• BCcampus  (Canada) 

• OER  Foundation  (International) 


56 


Note:  This  chapter  has  been  adapted  and  updated  from  the  report  “OERu:  Towards 
a Logic  Model  and  Plan  of  Action,”  available  at  http://wikieducator.Org/images/c/c2/ 
Report_OERU-Final-version.pdf 


References 

Bowman,  K.,  Clayton,  B.,  Bateman,  A.,  Knight,  B.,  Thomson,  P.,  Hargreaves, 

J.,  Blom,  K.  and  Enders,  M.  (2003).  Recognition  of  Prior  Learning  in  the 
Vocational  Education  and  Training  Sector.  Adelaide:  NCVER. 

Brown,  J.S.  and  Adler,  R.O.  (2008).  “Minds  on  Fire:  Open  Education,  the  Long  Tail, 
and  Learning  2.0.”  Educause Review  43(1):  16-32.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
educause.edu/ir/library/pdf/ERM0811.pdf 

Brown,  J.S.  and  Duguid,  P.  (1995).  “The  University  in  the  Digital  Age.”  Xerox  PARC 
Working  Paper.  Retrieved  from:  www.johnseelybrown.com/The%20 
University%20in%20the%20Digital%20Age.pdf 

Chapman,  G.  (2010).  “Tablet  Computers  Come  of  Age  in  2010  with  iPad  Mania.” 
Retrieved  from:  www.physorg.com/news/2010-12-tablet-age-ipad-mania. 
html 

Chow,  B.  (2010).  “Copyright  and  the  Development  and  Re-use  of  OER.  Does 
Copyright  Restrict  Access  to  Knowledge  in  Developing  Countries?” 

Taking  OER  Beyond  the  OER  Community.  UNESCO/COL  online  forum, 
15-19  November  2010.  Retrieved  from:  http://oerworkshop.weebly.com/ 
uploads/4/l/3/4/4134458/a_wfhf_perspective.pdf 

Christensen,  C.M.,  Baumann,  H.,  Ruggles,  R.  and  Sadtler,  T.M.  (2006).  “Disruptive 
Innovation  for  Social  Change.”  Harvard  Business  Review  December: 

94-101. 

CNN.com  (2000).  “Billionaire  Pledges  $100  Million  for  Free  Internet  University.” 
17  March  2000.  Retrieved  from:  http://archives.cnn.com/2000/TECH/ 
computing/03/16/internet. university 

Commonwealth  of  Learning  (COL)  and  South  African  Qualifications  Authority 
(SAQA)  (2008).  Transnational  Qualifications  Framework  for  the  Virtual 
University  for  Small  States  of  the  Commonwealth:  Concept  Document.  COL, 
Vancouver.  Retrieved  from:  www.col.org/tqf 

Daniel,  J.  (2011a).  Open  but  Tough.  OER  Foundation  consultative  meeting  for 

the  OER  university  concept.  23  February  2011,  Dunedin,  New  Zealand. 
Retrieved  from:  www.col.org/resources/speeches/201  lpresentation/ 
Pages/2011-02-23.aspx 

Daniel,  J.  (2011b).  “Will  Higher  Education  Split?”  Keynote  address:  4th  Annual 
Australian  Higher  Education  Congress:  Innovation  in  Boosting 
Participation:  Considering  the  Potential  of  IT,  8 March  2011,  Sydney, 
Australia. 

Daniel,  J.,  Kanwar,  A.  and  Uvalic  -Trumbic , S.  (2007).  “Mass  Tertiary  Education 
in  the  Developing  World:  Distant  Prospect  or  Distinct  Possibility?”  Retrieved 
from:  www.col.org/colweb/site/pid/4605 


57 


Daniel,  J.S.  (1996).  Mega-universities  and  Knowledge  Media:  Technology  Strategies  for 
Higher  Education.  Kogan  Page:  London. 

Directory  of  Open  Access  Journals  (2011).  Retrieved  from:  www.doaj.org/ 

Fini,  A.  (2009).  “The  Technological  Dimension  of  a Massive  Open  Online  Course: 
The  Case  of  the  CCK08  Course  Tools.”  The  International  Review  of  Research 
in  Open  and  Distance  Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  from:  www.irrodl.org/ 
index. php/irrodl/article/viewArticle/643/1402 

Gibbons,  M.  (1998).  “Higher  Education  Relevance  in  the  21st  Century.”  Paper 

presented  at  the  UNESCO  World  Conference  on  Higher  Education,  Paris, 
5-9  October  1998. 

Heller,  R.  (2010).  “Are  You  Accredited?”  Retrieved  from:  www.ocwconsortium.org/ 
community/blog/2010/09/07/are-you-accredited/ 

Indira  Gandhi  National  Open  University  (IGNOU)  (2009).  FlexiLearn.  Retrieved 
from:  www.ignouflexilearn.ac.in/flexilearn/ 

International  Telecommunications  Union  (2010).  Free  statistics.  Retrieved  from: 
www.itu.int/ITU-D/ict/statistics/ 

London  School  of  Business  and  Finance  (2010).  “The  London  School  of  Business 
and  Finance  Offers  Everyone  Free  MBA  Classes  Online.”  Press  release, 

27  October  2010.  Retrieved  from:  www.marketwire.com/press-release/ 

The-London-School-of-Business-and-Finance-Offers-Everyone-Free-MBA- 

Classes-Online-1342666.htm 

McAndrew,  P.  and  Lane,  A.  (2010).  “The  Impact  of  OpenLearn:  Making  the  Open 
University  More  ‘Open.’”  Association  for  Learning  and  Technology 
[online  newsletter],  Issue  18, 15  January  2010,  ISSN  1748-3603.  Retrieved 
from : http  ://newsletter.  alt . ac.uk/4ii7jyi4j  nx 

Nielson  Company.  2010.  Nielson  Wire.  “Social  networks/blogs  now  account  for 
one  in  every  four  and  a half  minutes  online.”  Retrieved  from:  http://blog. 
nielsen.com/nielsenwire/global/social-media-accounts-for-22-percent-of- 
time-online/ 

Open  University  [n.d.].  OpenLearn.  Retrieved  from:  www.open.ac.uk/openlearn/ 

Parry,  M.  (2010).  “Bigger  Classes  May  Be  Better  Classes:  Experimenters  Say 

Diversity  Means  Richness.”  The  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education.  Retrieved 
from:  http://chronicle.com/article/Open-Teaching-When-the-W/124170/ 

Tapscott,  D.  and  Williams,  A.D.  (2010).  “Innovating  the  21st-Century  University: 
It’s  Time!”  Educause Review  45(1):  16-29.  Retrieved  from:  www.educause. 
edu/ir/library/pdf/ERMlOlO.pdf 

Taylor,  J.C.  (2007).  “Open  Courseware  Futures:  Creating  a Parallel  Universe.” 
e-Journal  of  Instructional  Science  and  Technology  (e-JIST)  10(1).  Retrieved 
from:  www.ascilite.org.au/ajet/e-jist/docs/vollO_nol/papers/full_papers/ 
taylorj.htm 

Taylor,  J.C.  (2011a).  “Towards  an  OER  University:  Free  Learning  for  All  Students 
Worldwide.”  Joint  OER  Foundation/UNESCO  media  release,  8 February 
2011.  Retrieved  from:  http://wikieducator.org/Towards_an_OER_ 
university:_Free_learning_for_all_students_worldwide 


58 


Taylor,  J.C.  (2011b).  The  OER  University:  From  Logic  Model  to  Action  Plan.  Keynote 
address,  open  planning  meeting  for  the  OER  for  Assessment  and  Credit 
for  Students  Project,  Otago  Polytechnic,  23  February  2011,  Dunedin,  New 
Zealand. 

UNESCO  Bureau  of  Public  Information  (2009).  Reacting  to  New  Dynamics.  Paper 
presented  at  the  World  Conference  on  Higher  Education.  Retrieved  from: 
www.unesco.org/en/wche2009 

University  of  the  People  (2011).  University  Catalog.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
uopeople.org/files/Pdf/university_catalog.pdf 

Usher,  A.  (2007).  Educational  Policy  Institute.  Commentary  2007.  Retrieved  from: 
www.educationalpolicy.org/publications/pubpdf/Commentary_07.pdf 

WikiEducator  (2011).  “An  Intellectual  Property  Policy  for  Our  Times.”  Retrieved 
from:  http://wikieducator.0rg/Otago_Polytechnic:_An_IP_policy_for_ 
the_times 

Wikipedia  (2011).  “Flat  World  Knowledge.”  Retrieved  from:  http://en.wikipedia. 
org/wiki/Flat_World_Knowledge 

Zucker,  B.J.,  Johnson,  C.C.  and  Flint,  T.A.  (1998).  Prior  Learning  Assessment:  A 1996 
Survey  of  American  Institutional  Practices.  CAEL:  Chicago. 


59 


PART 


II 


OER  in  Practice 


Introduction 


OER  have  the  potential  to  open  up  access  to  educational  resources  and  quality 
education  while  reducing  cost  for  formal  and  informal  learning.  But  in  order 
for  this  potential  to  become  a reality,  several  practical  considerations  have  to  be 
addressed.  This  section  comprises  chapters  that  describe  how  some  of  these  issues 
have  been  tackled  in  practice. 

OER  are  generally  free  of  direct  cost  to  the  end  user  and,  in  most  cases,  are  openly 
accessible  online.  This  makes  them  attractive  for  expanding  formal  education  and 
supporting  informal  learning.  In  Chapter  5,  “Open  Education  Research:  From  the 
Practical  to  the  Theoretical,”  McAndrew  and  Farrow  describe  the  role  of  OER  in 
OpenLearn,  an  initiative  of  the  Open  University  UK.  In  OpenLearn,  an  integrated 
approach  to  OER  was  developed  and  delivered  as  a service  to  staff  and  students. 
Courses  with  a formal  base  from  mainstream  Open  University  released  through 
OpenLearn  are  currently  being  adopted  at  scale  as  the  basis  for  informal  learning. 
Users  can  take  advantage  of  the  ability  to  follow  their  own  path  by  picking  aspects 
from  within  structures  or  by  using  the  content  as  the  trigger  for  social  learning 
around  the  content  in  informal  learning  groups.  The  social  element  also  comes  to 
the  fore  in  the  case  of  OpenStudy,  which  focuses  on  solving  one  problem:  Where 
can  learners  talk  to  other  learners  about  topics  raised  by  OER?  OpenStudy  offers 
other  sites  the  opportunity  to  embed  or  link  in  to  a unified  place  for  discussion. 
For  learners,  it  gives  the  critical  mass  of  enough  other  people  talking  about  the 
subject  in  which  they  are  interested.  In  this  model,  attention  moves  from  the 
resources  themselves  to  the  structures  and  social  connections  around  the  content, 
with  the  questions  that  people  are  asked  to  solve  becoming  the  driver. 

The  term  “openness”  can  be  understood  in  a wide  variety  of  ways.  In  the  context 
of  open  software  and  content  in  particular,  openness  has  been  characterised 
as  being  able  to  “copy,”  “distribute”  and  “improve”  software,  and  to  be  able  to 
“exchange  the  changes  with  others.”  One  frequently  referenced  set  of  criteria 


63 


for  the  area  of  content  is  referred  to  as  the  “4Rs  Framework”:  re-use,  revise,  remix 
and  redistribute.  The  key  is  that  OER  are  made  available  under  licensing  that  is 
different  from  conventional  copyright  guidelines  and  regulations.  In  addition,  it 
should  not  be  encumbered  by  digital  rights  management  or  other  mechanisms 
for  enforcing  licensing  restrictions.  Friesen,  in  Chapter  6,  “Realising  the  Open 
in  Open  Educational  Resources:  Practical  Concerns  and  Solutions,”  provides 
an  overview  of  the  licensing  conditions  under  which  OER  are  typically  made 
available.  Unbeknown  to  many  users,  although  these  licences  are  considered 
“open,”  they  often  do  come  with  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  material.  Creative 
Commons  licences,  for  example,  often  restrict  how  an  institution  may  or  may 
not  be  permitted  to  combine  different  resources,  and  how  this  content  may  be 
subsequently  made  available.  The  chapter  by  Friesen  identifies  and  discusses  a 
number  of  practical  concerns  related  to  the  use,  distribution  and,  particularly, 
remixing  and  redistribution  of  materials  with  differing  OER  licences. 

In  Chapter  7,  “Approaches  to  the  Production  and  Use  of  OERs:  The  African  Virtual 
University  Experience,”  Diallo,  Wangeci  Thuo  (Kariuki)  and  Wright  focus  on 
the  development,  processes,  implementation,  challenges  and  lessons  learned 
during  the  African  Virtual  University  (AVU)  Multinational  Project.  This  project 
involved  the  collaborative  development  and  implementation  of  OER  with  12 
universities  from  ten  African  countries,  the  consortium  model  through  which 
OER  were  used  to  deliver  accredited  programmes,  and  the  potential  of  using  OER 
to  increase  access  to  education  in  Africa  through  the  delivery  of  accredited  and 
non-accredited  programmes.  This  chapter  contributes  to  an  understanding  of  how 
OER  can  be  developed  and  used  in  the  African  context  — an  understanding  that 
can  clearly  also  be  applied  in  other  similar  contexts. 

OER  have  gained  increased  attention  for  their  potential  to  support  open  access, 
sharing  and  re-use  of  digital  educational  resources  in  various  education  settings. 
For  example,  in  the  field  of  technology- enhanced  science  education,  where  the 
development  of  new  digital  science  education  resources  is  a costly  process,  the 
sharing  and  re-use  of  resources  is  very  attractive.  Thus,  over  the  past  several 
years,  a large  amount  of  digital  science  education  resources  has  become  available 
worldwide  through  Web-based  open  access  repositories.  These  resources  have 
the  potential  to  support  technology- enhanced  science  education  by  facilitating 
the  work  of  science  teachers  in  their  day-to-day  science  teaching.  It  has  also  been 
noted  that  science  teachers  could  benefit  from  participation  in  communities  of 
best  science  teaching  practices  by  sharing  not  only  OER,  but  also  their  educational 
practices.  As  a result,  there  is  an  increased  interest  for  the  development  of  Web- 
based  repositories  that  facilitate  open  access  to  both  educational  resources  and 
educational  practices.  The  chapter  “Sharing  of  Open  Science  Education  Resources 
and  Educational  Practices  in  Europe”  by  Sampson,  Zervas  and  Sotiriou  provides 
an  overview  of  three  European  initiatives  that  aim  to  support  and  facilitate  open 
access  to  both  educational  resources  and  educational  practices  in  the  field  of 
Science  Education  — namely,  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository,  the  COSMOS 
Repository  and  the  PATHWAY  Coordination  and  Support  Action. 


64 


CHAPTER 


Open  Education  Research: 

From  the  Practical  to  the  Theoretical 


Patrick  McAndrew  and  Robert  Farrow, 
Open  University  UK 


The  Distinctiveness  of  Open  Educational  Resources 

Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  remove  restrictions  for  learners  and  educators 
by  their  nature.  OER  are  free  of  direct  cost  to  the  end  user  and,  in  most  cases, 
are  openly  accessible  online.  The  recent  growth  in  interest  in  OER  has  several 
drivers,  ideological,  political  and  economic,  none  of  which  in  itself  explains  how 
learning  will  be  supported  or  help  us  to  develop  effective  models  and  learning 
design.  Looking  at  existing  approaches  that  are  taking  OER  from  resources  into 
practice  and  at  some  of  the  theories  for  learning  that  have  been  proposed  in  recent 
times,  we  can  see  that  OER  offer  attractive  affordances  for  the  expansion  of  formal 
education  and  for  the  support  of  informal  learning. 

The  potential  impact  of  OER  can  be  illustrated  by  an  example.  In  the  Bridge  to 
Success  project  (Lascu  2011),  OER  release  of  content  from  the  Open  University 
UK  is  being  re-used  within  U.S.  community  colleges.  Even  though  full  pilots 
have  yet  to  complete,  it  is  already  possible  to  determine  interesting  patterns  in 
the  enthusiastic  commitment  to  the  content  by  more  than  20  colleges.  The  OER 
nature  of  the  content  is  helping  bridge  a variety  of  gaps  in  the  formal  provision, 
such  as  the  pause  between  registration  and  start-up  inherent  in  cohort-based 
courses  and  the  need  to  break  the  cycle  of  failure  and  retake  in  assessment-focused 
courses.  This  shows  that  OER  can  support  the  adoption  of  less  formal  approaches 
into  formal  structures. 

There  is  also  evidence  of  the  reverse  in  action.  Courses  with  a formal  base  from 
mainstream  Open  University  courses  released  through  OpenLearn  are  being 
adopted  at  scale  as  the  basis  for  informal  learning.  Users  take  advantage  of 
the  ability  to  follow  their  own  path  by  picking  aspects  from  within  structures 
or  by  using  the  content  as  the  trigger  for  social  learning  around  the  content 
within  informal  learning  groups  that  sit  alongside  the  attraction  of  the 


65 


content  base  (Godwin  and  McAndrew  2008).  The  social  element  also  comes 
to  the  fore  in  the  case  of  OpenStudy  (2012),  which  focuses  on  solving  one 
problem:  Where  can  learners  talk  to  other  learners  about  topics  raised  by  OER? 
OpenStudy  offers  other  sites  the  opportunity  to  embed  or  link  in  to  a unified 
place  for  discussion,  and  for  learners  it  gives  the  critical  mass  of  enough  other 
people  talking  about  the  subject  in  which  you  are  interested.  In  this  model, 
attention  moves  from  the  resources  themselves  to  the  structures  and  social 
connections  around  the  content,  with  the  questions  that  people  are  asked  to 
solve  becoming  the  driver. 


The  Challenges  for  OER 

Progress  for  OER  is  visible  in  the  expansion  of  the  approach,  but  clearly  challenges 
remain.  Some  of  these  can  be  identified  in  the  work  of  OpenLearn  which,  in 
2006,  set  out  the  aspects  it  could  meet  in  terms  of  six  different  stages  (Lane  2009; 
McAndrew  et  al.  2009).  Reviewing  first  the  six  stages  identified  by  OpenLearn,  we 
will  see  how  the  maturity  identified  by  the  project  in  2006  (as  a result  of  building 
on  five  years  of  OER  experience)  has  continued  with  the  consequence  that  we  can 
start  to  feel  ready  to  fulfil  the  promise  of  OER. 


Six  Stages  of  OER  (OpenLearn  Model) 

When  establishing  OpenLearn,  a six-stage  description  of  possible  work  was 
developed: 

1.  Legal:  release  of  copyright  through  Creative  Commons 

2.  Practical:  provide  access  to  content 

3.  Technical:  develop  an  environment  for  open  access 

4.  Pedagogic:  understand  the  designs  that  work 

5.  Economic:  devise  a model  for  sustainable  operation 

6.  Transformative:  change  ways  of  working  and  learning 

In  the  first  two  of  these,  legal  and  practical,  OpenLearn  was  able  to  build  on 
considerable  existing  work.  In  the  legal  area,  adopting  the  Creative  Commons 
licence  gave  a shared  legal  framework  that  has  now  become  the  dominant 
method  for  signaling  the  intent  that  resources  are  open.  At  a practical  level,  the 
first  wave  of  open  projects  (e.g.,  Connexions  from  Rice  University,  Carnegie 
Mellon  University’s  Open  Learning  Initiative,  and  MIT’s  OpenCourseWare) 
had  established  the  identity  and  expectations  of  access  to  openly  licensed 
material. 

The  third  and  fourth  stages  — technical  and  pedagogic  — have  been  addressed 
to  a lesser  extent  in  earlier  initiatives  where  the  primary  aim  was  to  achieve 
the  open  release  of  material.  Lor  OpenLearn,  an  important  change  from 
embedded  content-specific  tools  to  an  overarching  environment  of  learning  and 
sense-making  tools  was  devised,  using  an  open  source  learning  environment 
(Moodle),  enhanced  by  custom  tools.  This  meant  that  OpenLearn  could  offer 
a chance  for  self-study  embedded  in  a supporting  site,  rather  than  transfer  of 
materials. 


66 


Pedagogically,  materials  in  OpenLearn  start  from  a basis  of  distance  learning. 

It  was  recognised,  however,  that  these  could  not  necessarily  be  made  available 
in  the  form  that  was  already  provided  to  registered  Open  University  students, 
but  rather  be  made  to  act  more  as  “Learning  Objects”  (Rehak  and  Mason  2003). 
The  structuring  of  material  for  OpenLearn  built  on  work  done  into  structured 
authoring  and  learning  design  (McAndrew  and  Weller  2005). 

The  fifth  stage  considers  models  for  sustainability  and  takes  a broad  approach 
to  the  economy  of  openness.  OpenLearn  was  an  experiment  and  so  did  not 
have  to  meet  any  particular  targets.  However,  it  also  intended  to  understand 
the  economics  of  operating  openly  by  being  attentive  to  the  opportunities 
that  could  arise.  These  included  attracting  further  funding  to  projects  that 
need  to  disseminate  and  share  their  materials,  attracting  new  learners,  and 
bringing  in  new  content  for  existing  courses.  OpenLearn's  continuance  was 
supported  across  a range  of  benefits  identified  during  its  experimental  period 
(McAndrew  et  al.  2009).  However,  it  also  has  a basis  in  a straightforward 
financial  position  that  the  additional  costs,  once  processes  can  be  embedded 
in  existing  practice,  can  be  justified  by  the  financial  return  through 
increased  economic  activity. 

The  final  stage  of  the  OpenLearn  model  (transformation)  was  not  felt  to  be 
something  that  could  be  required  of  a time-limited  intervention.  So,  in  that 
sense,  it  was  seen  as  beyond  the  scope  for  OpenLearn.  However,  we  find  a 
rationale  for  further  action  in  the  demonstrated  potential  of  OER  to  act  as  an 
agent  of  change. 

As  OpenLearn  progresses  to  be  an  integral  part  of  the  Open  University,  it  is  clear 
that  adopting  OER  has  had  a wide-ranging  influence,  changing  the  way  that  the 
university  collaborates  with  other  organisations  and  having  significant  impact 
on  mainstream  production  techniques  and  on  approaches  to  research.  As  a 
result  of  some  of  the  lessons  learned  from  OpenLearn,  the  Open  University  has 
developed  a broader  understanding  of  business  models  and  has  demonstrated  a 
willingness  to  experiment  with  alternative  ways  to  offer  mass  learning  beyond  its 
existing  student  base.  While  it  needs  to  be  considered  alongside  other  economic 
and  structural  factors,  openness  has  offered  a way  to  respond  constructively  in 
a period  of  change  and  so  has  a reasonable  claim  to  have  been  transformative:  a 
recent  internal  review  of  the  major  grants  received  by  the  university  identified 
that  in  all  but  one  of  those  grants  there  was  at  least  some  dependence  on  OER,  and 
that  the  ability  to  operate  as  a provider  of  open  and  free  resources  is  now  part  of 
the  university's  identity. 

This  six-stage  OpenLearn  model  is  ordered  to  imply  a growth  from  practical 
issues  to  greater  impact.  In  reality,  there  is  a mix  across  all  the  stages  of  different 
needs  and  ways  to  meet  them.  If  it  is  genuinely  the  case  that  OER  have  particular 
abilities  to  support  transformation  in  education,  then  we  need  to  understand  how 
to  enable  that  aspect.  At  the  macro  level,  this  is  about  finding  support  for  two  main 
contentions.  Firstly,  that  OER  contain  transformational  elements;  and,  secondly, 
that  these  elements  are  of  some  educational  merit.  We  propose  to  examine  the 
former  claim  in  light  of  the  practical  challenges  facing  the  OER  movement  and 
the  latter  by  assessing  the  extent  to  which  OER  can  be  understood  to  be  aligned  to 
particular  educational  philosophies. 


67 


Twelve  Key  Challenges  of  OER  (OLnet  Framework) 

The  Open  Learning  network  (OLnet)  was  established  in  2009  with  an  aim  to 
collate  evidence  and  encourage  research  into  the  development  and  practice 
around  OER.  Taking  a multi-strand  approach  a repeated  element  within  its 
work  has  been  to  iterate  through  reviews  of  the  priorities  emerging  from 
literature,  key  stakeholder  interviews,  analysis  of  online  sites  and  studies  of 
OER  project  reports.  Through  the  collective  intelligence  research  strand,  the 
data  gathered  has  been  entered  into  the  OER  Evidence  Llub  (OLnet  2012). 

The  Evidence  Llub  provides  an  open  online  environment  which  scaffolds 
and  structures  debates  around  key  questions  for  the  OER  movement.  By 
aggregating  and  mining  individual  contributions,  it  has  been  possible  to 
isolate  the  main  issues  that  the  OER  community  feels  are  important,  and  to 
identify  potential  solutions  that  might  help  overcome  any  legislative,  cultural 
or  practical  barriers  to  mainstream  OER. 

In  late  2011,  a message  was  distributed  (De  Liddo  2011)  asking  for  community 
feedback  on  ten  challenges  that  had  emerged  (including  data  from  the  OpenLearn 
project).  Following  consultation,  the  challenges  have  been  refined  (and  extended) 
to  become  12  “key”  challenges,  as  follows: 

1.  Who  and  how  to  create  new  appropriate  Assessment/Evaluation  models 
and  practices  for  OER? 

2.  What  Technologies  and  Infrastructure  are  needed/in  place  to  help  the 
OER  movement? 

3.  What  Institutional  Policies  are  needed/in  place  to  promote  OER? 

4.  What  evidence  is  there  of  Use  (and  Re-Use)  of  OER? 

5.  What  can  be  done  to  improve  OER  Sustainability? 

6.  What  are  the  issues  surrounding  Copyright  and  Licensing,  and  how  can 
they  be  overcome? 

7.  What  are  the  costs  and  benefits  of  using  OER  in  Teaching? 

8.  What  are  the  best  ways  to  Promote  and  Advocate  educational  methods 
which  use  OER? 

9.  How  do  we  ensure  OER  is  of  high  Quality? 

10.  How  do  we  create  the  right  culture  of  teaching  and  learning  to  improve  OER 
Adoption? 

1 1 . How  can  we  improve  the  value  and  impact  of  OER  Research? 

12.  How  can  we  improve  Access  to  OER? 

(Given  the  dynamic  nature  of  collective  intelligence,  these  challenges  may  extend 
further.  The  latest  version  can  be  found  through  olnet.org  and  ci.olnet.org.) 

The  challenges  facing  the  OER  movement  are  diverse,  but  also  fall  into  four 
categories  (Figure  5.1). 


68 


Figure  5.1:  Categorisation  of  key  challenges  facing  the  OER  movement. 


1.  Persistent  challenges 

2.  Underlying  challenges 

Copyright 

Cost/benefit 

Technology 

Impact 

Access 

Policy 

3.  Sticking  points 

4.  Emerging  challenges 

Quality 

Advocacy 

Sustainability 

Culture 

Re-use 

Open  assessment 

• The  first  category  contains  challenges  relating  to  copyright,  technology  and 
access.  These  are  the  most  persistent  questions,  but  also  those  where  we  can 
suggest  solutions. 

• The  second  category  contains  key  sticking  points,  namely  those  of  quality, 
sustainability  and  re-use.  These  can  be  considered  barriers  as  the  existing 
models  and  measures  do  not  easily  transfer  to  the  open  context.  The  open 
approach  is  interesting  precisely  because  of  the  challenge  to  those  models 
and  the  spur  to  rethinking  that  it  brings.  In  this  sense,  the  sticking  points  are 
distractions  and  will  only  ultimately  be  addressed  through  experience. 

• The  third  category  is  of  underlying  challenges  of  cost/benefit,  impact  and 
policy.  Here,  OER  offer  a new  dimension  and  the  role  of  individual  pieces 
of  evidence  is  critical.  Applying  research  to  these  challenges  has  particular 
potential  to  increase  understanding  and  take-up. 

• In  the  fourth  category  are  the  emerging  challenges  of  open  assessment, 
culture  and  advocacy  which  reflect  the  contemporary  issues  faced  by  the 
movement. 

The  OER  Evidence  Hub  is  a tool  that  was  designed  with  the  real  needs  of  the  OER 
community  in  mind.  While  there  are  a plethora  of  normative  arguments  in  favour 
of  OER,  evidence  about  OER  is  somewhat  harder  to  come  by.  Keeping  in  mind  the 
diverse  ways  in  which  OER  are  remixed,  redistributed  and  used,  evaluating  and 
modelling  the  use  of  OER  are  not  always  straightforward.  The  Evidence  Hub  is  a 
tool  which  enables  the  community  to  make  sense  of  fragmentary  evidence  and 
assess  the  validity  of  claims  and  questions  facing  the  movement  as  it  enters  a new 
phase  of  maturity. 


Is  the  “Resources”  Part  of  Open  Educational  Resources 
Solved? 

As  stated  above  in  reviewing  the  challenges,  some  of  the  main  issues  facing  the 
movement  may  be  considered  to  have  largely  been  solved  (at  least  in  principle). 
When  OER  first  became  an  object  of  attention  in  the  early  2000s,  they  also 
became  a focal  point  for  the  various  discourses  surrounding  open  education 
(distance  learning;  learning  objects;  open  source  software;  copyleft;  etc.). 

As  a practical  issue  relevant  to  a range  of  different  stakeholders,  copyright  offered 
a natural  point  from  which  advocates  of  open  education  could  explore,  discuss 


69 


and  argue  for  change.  The  successes  of  the  (often  diverse)  OER  movement  have 
depended  to  a certain  extent  on  a sense  of  purpose  and  frame  of  reference  that 
could  be  shared  across  international  and  institutional  borders. 

The  importance  of  Creative  Commons  (2012)  in  creating  a culture  of  confidence 
and  legal  awareness  shouldn’t  be  understated.  As  Atkins  et  al.  (2007,  p.  13)  note,  the 
range  of  licensing  arrangements  supported  by  Creative  Commons  is  an  important 
part  of  the  international  infrastructure  of  the  OER  movement  — a movement  that 
continues  to  grow  all  around  the  world.  This  growth  is  undoubtedly  supported  by 
the  relative  ease  with  which  educators,  producers  and  remixers  can  manipulate  and 
share  OER  through  Creative  Commons  licences.  One  consequence  of  the  success 
and  impact  of  the  work  of  Creative  Commons  is  that  practical  questions  about  open 
education  are  now  typically  framed  in  terms  of  OER.  Conversely,  OER  in  turn  are 
still  generally  defined  in  terms  of  copyright  and  licensing. 

There  have  been  some  attempts  to  widen  the  scope  and  definition  of  OER  beyond 
copyright  status.  For  example,  Wiley  (2011)  has  argued  that  OER  are  artifacts  that 
are  either  (1)  licensed  under  an  open  copyright  licence  or  (2)  otherwise  in  the  public 
domain.  It  is  worth  noting  two  things  that  appear  to  follow  from  his  proposal. 
Firstly,  it  means  that  OER  are  a subset  within  a wider  taxonomy  of  “things  that  can 
be  copyrighted.”  Copyright  is  designed  to  protect  individual  works  of  authorship 
that  have  received  some  sort  of  fixed  expression  (like  a book,  DVD  or  webpage). 
Thus,  copyright  covers  intellectual  and  literary  works,  but  ideas,  concepts,  methods, 
people,  places  and  events  can  never  be  copyrighted.  Secondly,  by  including  public 
domain,  Wiley  suggests  that,  irrespective  of  copyright  circumstances,  something 
being  in  the  public  domain  is  itself  enough  for  a resource  to  be  considered  “open.” 
Arguably,  this  would  entail  the  possibility  that  ideas,  concepts  and  other  forms  of 
work  that  are  not  considered  in  law  to  be  capable  of  reaching  a tangible  expression 
could  be  considered  OER  when  they  exhibit  adequate  senses  of  “publicity.” 
Licensing  remains  the  least  contentious  and  most  practical  way  of  identifying  OER, 
and  the  convention  (perhaps  derived  from  the  influence  of  funding  bodies)  is  that 
educational  resources  are  considered  open  when  they  are  produced  or  released 
through  the  appropriate  “open  licence”  (see  Chapter  6). 

In  practice,  most  educational  resources  exist  somewhere  on  a scale  of  ease  of  access 
and  amenability  of  re-use.  This  depends  on  many  factors,  including  the  format 
(not  necessarily  digital),  the  legal  context,  who  is  trying  to  access  it  and  the  nature 
of  the  intended  use.  The  “openness”  of  a particular  OER  is  also  contextual,  and  not 
necessarily  a feature  of  the  resource  itself.  The  open  education  movement  needs  a 
better  understanding  of  these  contexts  and  the  ways  that  practices  surrounding  the 
use  and  re-use  of  OER  are  having  an  impact  on  educational  institutions.  The  debate 
around  these  issues  is  often  framed  in  terms  of  “Open  Educational  Practices”  (OEP). 


Open  Educational  Practices 

The  boundaries  of  the  debate  around  open  education  are  increasingly  expanding 
in  order  to  encompass  the  institutional,  cultural  and  pedagogical  implications  of 
adopting  an  open  model  rather  than  retaining  focus  on  the  resources  themselves. 
For  each  of  the  12  “key  challenges,”  there  are  many  areas  where  OER  have  the 
potential  to  challenge  existing  institutional  structures  and  ways  of  working.  We 
will  discuss  just  three  aspects  here,  but  there  are  others  we  could  have  chosen, 


70 


such  as  curriculum  design,  sustainability,  research,  dissemination,  recognition 
and  attribution.  As  each  of  these  examples  indicates,  the  shift  to  the  open  model 
of  education  entails  changes  much  more  profound  than  simply  amending  the 
legal  status  of  a particular  educational  resource.  OER  can  throw  into  question  the 
validity  of  existing  institutional  systems. 

Thus,  as  the  OER  movement  enters  a new  phase  of  development,  the  values  and 
practices  associated  with  being  “open”  are  coming  to  the  fore.  In  a recent  poll 
organised  by  the  World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society  (WSIS)  Knowledge 
Community,  for  example,  75  per  cent  of  respondents  expressed  the  view  that 
“mainstreaming  the  use  of  Open  Educational  Practices  (OEP)  will  really  transform 
education”  (WSIS  2011).  (Interestingly,  there  was  a suggestion  that  those  who 
disagreed  may  have  done  so  on  the  basis  that  “OER  alone  would  not  be  enough  to 
transform  educational  practices”  [Johnstone  2011].) 


Assessment  and  Evaluation 

The  production  of  OER  content  may  be  less  pressing  than  the  question  of  how 
to  connect  the  wide  range  of  existing  content  through  to  learning  activities. 
Learning  is  a complex  process  with  the  “pain”  that  is  part  of  acquiring  new 
knowledge  balanced  by  the  “pleasure”  of  building  extra  understanding  once 
grounding  is  available.  There  are  motivations  that  come  from  individual  goals 
and  social  connections,  but  what  is  also  clear  is  that  the  addition  of  external 
assessment  can  be  the  catalyst  to  turn  intentions  into  motivations  and  structure 
them  into  effective  learning. 

Lack  of  a viable  assessment  model  is  a central  issue  for  a number  of  OER  providers 
who  operate  outside  (or  parallel  to)  traditional  educational  institutional  boundaries, 
including  Peer  2 Peer  University  (https://p2pu.org)  and  Khan  Academy  (www. 
khanacademy.org/).  The  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  (MIT)  recently 
announced  its  intention  to  expand  the  successful  OpenCourseWare  programme 
and  offer  certificates  to  students  who  complete  the  course.  The  new  MITx 
programme  will  not  involve  any  charge  as  such,  although  learners  who  wish  to 
have  their  progress  accredited  in  some  way  will  have  to  pay  a fee  (MIT  2011b). 
Furthermore,  MIT  will  not  itself  be  the  awarding  body  for  any  credits  earned 
through  the  OER  model.  The  disaggregation  that  is  a possibility  of  OER  offers  a 
potential  solution  illustrated  by  the  plans  of  the  OER  university  (OERu  2012)  to 
establish  a consortium  of  universities  that  will  accredit  learning  from  OER. 

Do  strategies  such  as  this  make  education  more  “open”?  On  the  one  hand,  well- 
designed  learning  materials  are  being  made  available  to  a wider  audience,  but 
one  could  also  argue  that  tiers  of  accessibility  are  being  re-introduced  despite  the 
open  nature  of  the  resources  themselves.  One  popular  option  for  accreditation  is 
provided  in  the  form  of  a digital  badge  system,  recently  praised  as  the  future  of 
learning  by  the  U.S.  Secretary  of  Education,  Arne  Duncan.  Badges,  he  suggested, 
hold  the  key  to  recognising  non-traditional  learning  and  skills  developed  in 
informal  settings,  empowering  students  and  marking  personal  development.  But 
even  the  most  optimistic  assessment  of  the  badge  system  must  acknowledge  that 
context  is  crucial:  the  badge  system  cannot  work  without  an  open  educational 
infrastructure  (Duncan  2011). 


71 


Technological  Infrastructure 

One  of  the  central  challenges  faced  by  the  OER  movement  is  the  development  of 
an  infrastructure  that  can  support  the  distribution  and  use  of  digital  resources 
through  workflow  and  course  management,  provide  tools  for  dealing  with 
copyright  and  re-use  of  materials,  and  aspire  to  ensure  pedagogical  quality. 

In  practice,  this  has  perhaps  proven  to  be  much  more  complex  than  first 
appreciated.  Reflecting  on  the  eduCommons  project,  Atkins  et  al.  (2007,  p.  12) 
noted: 

“The  philosophy  of  the  Center  for  Open  and  Sustainable  Learning 
team  is  that  all  resources  emitted  by  eduCommons  should  be 
covered  by  an  educational  Creative  Commons  license....  This 
philosophy  suggests  that  two  different  digital  course  resource 
systems  would  emerge  within  a university:  one  built  entirely  of 
Creative  Commons  material,  and  another  built  within  the  IP 
environment  of  the  institution’s  digital  library/repository  allowing 
access  to  copyright  material  only  to  authenticated  members  of 
community.” 

The  emergence  of  parallel  systems  for  formal,  institutional  learning  and 
informal  general  learning  reflects  the  tensions  that  govern  the  use  of  OER 
within  institutions.  While  OER  are  not  dependent  on  any  one  technology,  an 
ideal  solution  to  meet  their  various  requirements  has  also  been  lacking.  The 
ideal  platform  for  the  providers  of  OER  should:  offer  multiple  content;  input 
and  multiple  content  output  formats;  support  clear  licensing;  track  all  use  of  the 
content;  provide  easy  tools  for  customisation  and  sharing  back;  enable  very  easy 
resource  discovery;  and  reveal  the  options  for  how  the  resources  are  intended  to 
be  used  and  how  they  actually  are  used.  For  users,  one  of  the  key  requirements  for 
OER  is  its  invisibility  as  part  of  the  range  of  resources  they  would  use.  This  means 
that  OER  need  to  be  flexible  across  context,  linking  through  to  other  relevant 
content  and  assessment  as  required.  Under  this  view,  the  ideal  platform  is  not 
something  that  can  be  provided  just  for  OER:  resources  need  to  be  thought  of  as 
elements  that  are  continuous  with  the  rest  of  the  learning  environment. 

Weller  (2011)  has  pointed  out  the  interesting  distinction  between  “big  OER”  and 
“little  OER”  in  his  book  The  Digital  Scholar.  His  distinction  is  based  mainly  on 
the  origin  of  a particular  resource.  Big  OER  mean  funded  projects,  institutions 
and  collaborations  that,  in  turn,  tend  to  produce  big  products,  such  as  modules, 
learning  environments,  lectures,  textbooks,  courses  and  pilots.  On  the  other 
hand,  little  OER  relate  to  the  individual  and  the  community  with  learner- 
generated products  such  as  images,  presentations,  video  clips  and  notes.  The 
distinction  also  reflects  the  impact  that  OER  can  have  in  the  “big”  world  of 
universities,  education  systems,  funding  organisations  and  governments,  and  in 
the  “little”  world  of  tutoring,  homework  help,  informal  education  and  learning 
for  fun.  The  reason  that  OER  can  make  a difference  is  reflected  in  this  broad  range 
of  impact.  The  “openness”  of  OER  means  that  what  a university  releases  can  be 
picked  up  in  any  way  that  suits  the  user.  Indeed,  big  OER  can  appear  to  people 
who  come  across  it  as  the  ideal  solution  to  their  “little”  problem  because  a more 
complete  and  structured  solution  may  be  better  for  the  learner  than  isolated 
components  (i.e.,  little  OER). 


72 


Research  and  Scholarship 

A third  area  where  OER  challenge  existing  institutional  models  concerns  the 
production  and  consumption  of  research.  The  majority  of  scientific  papers  are  still 
published  by  traditional  journals  whose  business  models  prohibit  the  use  of  an 
open  system.  While  there  are  many  compelling  reasons  why  academic  and  research 
leaders  should  publish  on  an  open  basis  in  order  to  offer  the  widest  access  to  their 
work,  the  central  role  of  prestige  publication  remains  in  acquiring  academic  tenure 
and  recognition.  The  message  that  is  still  often  handed  down  from  senior  staff  to 
early  career  researchers  is  that  it’s  better  to  concentrate  on  traditional  publishing 
routes,  as  these  will  be  recognised  as  valid  while  publication  in  open  access  journals 
will  not.  The  result  is  a bias  towards  print  publication  (Cheverie  et  al.  2009)  and 
institutional  cultures  that  do  not  reward  openness. 

Beyond  the  general  idea  of  facilitating  access,  the  values  associated  with  open 
education  have  perhaps  yet  to  receive  full  expression,  although  a number  of 
researchers  have  written  about  the  practical  and  ethical  significance  of  OER. 
Angell  et  al.  (2011)  have  identified  the  emergence  of  large-scale  public  health  OER 
which  are  expanding  despite  the  fact  that  public  health  involves  the  transmission 
of  complex  and  rapidly  changing  information  across  different  disciplines  and 
is  an  area  where  high-quality  learning  is  of  paramount  importance.  Similarly, 
Heller  et  al.  (2007),  Ijsselmuiden  et  al.  (2007),  Geith  and  Vignare  (2008)  and  Lee 
et  al.  (2008)  have  sought  to  connect  the  OER  movement  with  discourses  about 
public  health  and  human  rights  in  developing  countries.  In  cases  like  these,  OER 
are  becoming  part  of  a wider  discourse  about  rights  and  social  justice,  which  goes 
beyond  simply  promoting  access  (and  may  be  seen  to  reconnect  with  the  original 
aspirations  of  the  open  education  movement). 

It  should  be  noted  that  being  open  is  not  the  same  thing  as  being  against  the 
commercial  use  of  intellectual  property  in  education.  As  Downes  (2011)  has 
observed,  releasing  materials  under  open  licences  can  even  provide  less  scrupulous 
commercial  publishers  with  free  content  if  they  choose  to  disregard  the  spirit  of 
sharing  by  making  small  changes  and  then  claiming  it  as  their  own  content. 

In  some  ways,  progress  made  in  the  OER  world  can  be  seen  to  have  resulted  from 
turning  a blind  eye  to  deeper  questions  about  the  impact  of  OER  on  institutional 
structures.  Nonetheless,  as  the  key  challenges  from  the  OER  Evidence  Hub  (OLnet 
2012)  illustrate,  the  move  towards  OER  provokes  critical  reflection  about  a whole 
range  of  changes  for  practices  surrounding  education.  As  the  discourse  about 
practical  licensing  of  intellectual  property  moves  on,  debates  now  often  focus  on 
the  practices  (OEP)  as  a complement  to  the  resources  (OER). 

OEP  is  defined  by  the  International  Council  for  Open  and  Distance  Education 
(ICDE2011)  as  follows: 

“Open  Educational  Practices  (OEP)  are  defined  as  practices  which 
support  the  production,  use  and  reuse  of  high  quality  open 
educational  resources  (OER)  through  institutional  policies,  which 
promote  innovative  pedagogical  models,  and  respect  and  empower 
learners  as  co-producers  on  their  lifelong  learning  path.  OEP  address 
the  whole  OER  governance  community:  policy  makers,  managers 
and  administrators  of  organizations,  educational  professionals  and 
learners.” 


73 


Similarly,  the  OPAL  Open  Educational  Quality  Initiative  — a partnership  between 
seven  organisations  led  from  University  of  Duisburg-Essen  and  including  ICDE, 
UNESCO  and  the  Open  University  UK  — has  suggested  eight  dimensions  to 
OEP,  based  on  a review  of  58  case  studies  in  open  education  (OPAL  2011a).  Much 
of  the  support  and  commentary  on  OEP  in  this  work  is  directed  at  educational 
institutions  (OPAL  2011b),  with  a particular  focus  on  aspects  such  as  adoption, 
institutional  sustainability  and  development  of  staff.  This  encourages  a view  that 
OEP  are  incremental  rather  than  radical  practices.  Indeed,  the  ways  that  open 
education  clearly  transcends  institutional  boundaries  and  embraces  informal 
learning  scenarios  is  reflected  in  the  emergence  of  non-institutional  providers 
such  as  OpenStudy,  Khan  Academy  and  P2PU.  Seen  in  this  light,  OER  can  be 
understood  as  radical  objects  that  open  up  space  for  critical  reflection  on  our  most 
deeply  held  assumptions  about  the  point  and  value  of  educational  systems. 


OER  as  the  Supporter  of  Educational  Theory 

The  OER  movement  emerged  from  the  recognition  that  the  Internet  has  great 
potential  to  change  the  way  we  live  and  learn,  provided  it  can  be  harnessed  for 
common  good.  It  is  questionable  that  OER  exists  as  an  independent  approach. 
Rather,  it  can  be  seen  as  reflective  of  the  evolving  thought  around  education 
provision.  Through  the  20th  century,  there  were  a series  of  rethinkings  of  the  way 
education  can  work  (e.g.,  Dewey  1916;  Ilich  1971;  Vygotsky  1978;  Piaget  1967).  In 
the  21st  century,  the  realisation  is  that  there  are  now  few  barriers  to  the  provision 
of  these  models.  The  free  access  to  educational  materials  and  tools  allows  us 
to  revisit  more  radical  ideas  as  to  how  learning  might  operate.  Ilich  (1971),  in 
DeSchooling  Society,  envisions  a learning  web  to  “enable  the  student  to  gain  access 
to  any  educational  resource  which  may  help  him  to  define  and  achieve  his  own 
goals ...  [from]  Reference  Services  to  Learning  Objects....”  While  this  may  well 
have  been  suggested  as  a thought  experiment  at  the  time  Ilich  wrote  his  book,  it 
can  now  be  mapped  on  to  achievable  technology. 

Equally,  there  have  been  arguments  about  the  control  structures  that  were 
intended  through  common  curricula  and  assessment  to  bring  everyone  to 
a common  standard  as  to  whether  those  structures  are  any  longer  viable  or 
desirable.  The  “learner  as  a compliant  consumer”  (Goodyear  and  Ellis  2007)  that 
is  needed  for  such  control  to  work  is  not  a reasonable  assumption.  We  need  to 
prepare  for  a more  distributed  and  less  restricted  expectation  of  learner  behaviour. 
To  learners  this  may  feel  like  abandonment  and  confusion  as  much  as  liberation 
and  choice.  The  multiple  paths  they  can  follow  mean  that  the  expectations  of 
the  originator  of  the  educational  material  and  the  users  can  no  longer  be  seen  as 
matched,  and  this  has  to  be  accepted  as  an  increasingly  common  experience  in 
the  process  of  learning. 

In  this,  the  approach  of  OER  resonates  with  the  thinking  of  recent  innovative 
educators.  Bruner,  for  example,  reached  a position  where  he  felt  that  progression 
of  education,  or  at  least  the  educational  system,  would  be  achieved  by  adopting 
the  view  that  education  was  a function  of  “culture-at-large”  (Bruner  1995,  p.  84) 
and  supported  by  interactions  around  attempts  to  co-construct  knowledge.  Thus, 
a world  where  learners  can  act  directly  and  interact  with  others  could  help  provide 
the  ideal  cross-over  from  the  restricted  models  of  teacher-based  education  to  the 
more  independent  and  holistic  approaches  envisioned.  Those  who  draw  on  the 


74 


Vygotskian  approach  have  identified  the  need  for  social  connections  as  a key  part 
of  his  once  radical  view  that  learning  “is  the  very  pathway  through  which  human 
mind  develops”  (Stetsenko  and  Arievitch  2010).  The  principle  of  Vykotsky’s  “Zone 
of  Proximal  Development”  is  that  by  working  alongside  those  of  similar  or  slightly 
advanced  skills,  individuals  are  able  to  improve  their  own  performance.  This  is 
scaled  up  in  the  open:  limitations  on  finding  peer  learners  are  now  unrestricted  by 
location  and  geography. 

Mayes  and  Fowler  (1999)  proposed  a three-level  view  of  “courseware”:  the 
primary  being  the  provision  of  resources  themselves;  the  secondary,  the  work 
of  learners  with  those  resources;  and  the  tertiary,  the  building  of  interactions 
around  the  work  of  the  learners.  The  pedagogical  mechanisms  they  describe  for 
this  overlooked  tertiary  level  are  dialogic  and  include  passive,  vicarious  learning, 
through  the  observation  of  others  as  they  work  through  challenges.  In  their 
original  work,  Mayes  and  Fowler  considered  the  way  in  which  the  activities  of 
students  might  be  made  available  to  following  cohorts  — in  the  open,  the  group 
who  can  see  such  materials  extends  and  blends. 

Vavoula  (2004)  makes  a useful  distinction  between  the  process  and  goals  of 
learning  to  provide  a typology  of  informal  learning  that  considers  the  role  and 
source  of  the  learning  process  and  goals.  As  shown  in  Figure  5.2,  she  identifies: 

• traditional  intentional  formal  learning  as  being  intentioned  by  a teacher  who 
defines  both  the  goals  and  the  process; 

• intentional  informal  learning,  where  the  learner  determines  the  goals  and 
process  rather  than  a teacher;  and 

• unintentional  informal  learning,  where  the  goals  and,  indeed,  the  process 
remain  imprecisely  defined. 

Figure  5.2:  Typology  of  informal  learning  (Vavoula  2004). 


Open  resources  are  an  enabler  for  all  of  these  forms  of  learning  because  they 
provide  resources  that  can  transfer  into  formal  contexts.  It  is  their  direct 
availability  to  learners  that  is  their  more  distinct  contribution.  In  the  examples 
of  OER  in  action,  we  can  see  both  intentioned  learning  taking  place  (explicit 
outcomes  specified,  recognised  and  obeyed  in  the  guided  paths  of  P2PU  and  the 
transferred  self-study  materials  from  OpenLearn  to  Bridge  to  Success);  and  less 
directed,  probably  unintentional,  learning  taking  place  from  the  large  numbers 
who  land  from  Internet  searches  on  individual  OER  pages  or  follow  the  distraction 
paths  that  lead  from  one  online  resource  to  another. 


75 


Conclusion 


This  chapter  highlights  the  potential  impact  of  OER  on  policy  and  on  practice 
in  education  and  points  out  that  while  there  are  weaknesses  in  the  evidence 
base,  there  is  a common  position  that  allows  progress.  The  way  forward,  then,  is 
through  finding  a way  to  accept  some  of  these  partial  pieces  of  evidence  while 
making  their  basis  clear  and  while  understanding  the  contexts  in  which  they  can 
apply.  Gathering  such  evidence  will  allow  the  OER  movement  to  progress  beyond 
practicalities  and  consider  whether  open  approaches  have  the  potential  to  support 
more  innovative  models  of  learning  that  have  been  proposed  alongside  the 
innovative  models  of  operation. 

The  need  to  make  connections  in  learning  has  influenced  educational  thinkers 
in  recent  times  to  go  beyond  individual  teaching  to  the  impact  of  culture  and 
collective  behaviour.  Openness  as  a principle  and  as  a practical  mechanism  is 
now  giving  us  the  ability  to  explore  many  of  those  ideas  and  offers  an  improved 
outlook  for  future  approaches  to  learning. 


References 

Angell,  C.,  Hartwell,  H.  and  Hemingway,  A.  (2011).  “The  Emergence  of  Public 
Health  Open  Educational  Resources.”  Health  Education  4:  256-265. 

Atkins,  D.E.,  Brown,  J.S.  and  Hammond,  A.L.  (2007).  A Review  of  the  Open 
Educational  Resources  (OER)  Movement:  Achievements,  Challenges, 
and  New  Opportunities.  Report  to  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett 
Foundation.  Retrieved  from:  www.hewlett.org/uploads/files/ 
ReviewoftheOERMovement.pdf 

Bruner,  J.S.  (1995).  The  Culture  of  Education.  Harvard  University  Press:  Cambridge, 
MA. 

Cheverie,  J.F.,  Boettcher,  J.  and  Buschman,  J.  (2009).  “Digital  Scholarship  in  the 

University  Tenure  and  Promotion  Process:  A Report  on  the  Sixth  Scholarly 
Communication  Symposium  at  Georgetown  University  Library.”  Journal 
of  Scholarly  Publishing  40(3):  219-230. 

Creative  Commons  (2012).  “About  the  Licenses.”  Retrieved  3 February  2012  from: 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/ 

De  Liddo,  A.  (2011).  “Survey:  What  Are  the  Key  Challenges  for  the  OER 

Movement?”  Retrieved  5 February  2012  from:  www.olnet.org/content/ 
survey-what-are-key-challenges-oer-movement 

Dewey,  J.  (1916).  Democracy  and  Education:  An  Introduction  to  the  Philosophy  of 
Education.  The  Free  Press:  New  York. 

Downes,  S.  (2011).  “Should  OER  Favour  Commercial  Use?”  Retrieved  2 February 
2012  from:  www.downes.ca/post/55283 

Duncan,  A.  (2011).  “Digital  Badges  for  Learning.”  Remarks  by  Secretary  Duncan 
at  4th  Annual  Launch  of  the  MacArthur  Foundation  Digital  Media  and 
Lifelong  Learning  Competition.  Retrieved  5 February  2012  from:  www. 
ed.gov/news/speeches/digital-badges-learning 


76 


Geith,  C.  and  Vignare,  K.  (2008).  “Access  to  Education  with  Online  Learning 
and  Open  Educational  Resources:  Can  They  Close  the  GAP?”  Journal 
of  Asynchronous  Learning  Networks  12  (1).  Retrieved  from:  www. 
distanceandaccesstoeducation.info/contents/JALN_vl2nl_Geith.pdf 

Godwin,  S.  and  McAndrew,  P.  (2008).  “Exploring  User  Types  and  What  Users 
Seek  in  an  Open  Content  Based  Educational  Resource.”  In  ED-MEDIA 
2008  World  Conference  on  Educational  Multimedia,  Hypermedia  and 
Telecommunications,  30  June-4  July  2008,  Vienna,  Austria.  Retrieved  6 
February  2012  from:  http://oro.open.ac.uk/27399/ 

Goodyear,  P.  and  Ellis,  R.  (2007).  “Students’  Interpretations  of  Learning  Tasks: 
Implications  for  Educational  Design.”  In  Proceedings  ascilite  Singapore 
2007.  Atkinson,  R.J.,  McBeath,  C.,  Soong,  S.K.A.  and  Cheers,  C.  (eds.). 
Singapore,  pp.  339-346. 

Heller,  R.,  Chongsuvivatwong,  V.,  Hailegeorgios,  S.,  Dada,  J.,  Torun,  P.,  Madhok,  R. 
and  Sanders,  J.  (2007).  “Capacity-Building  for  Public  Health.”  Bulletin  of 
the  World  Health  Organisation  85(12).  Retrieved  January  2010  from:  www. 
scielosp.org/scielo 

Johnstone,  S.  (2011).  Winners  announcement  (WSIS/OPAL/E-Oxford 
Debate  on  Mainstreaming  OER).  Retrieved  3 February  2012 
from:  www.wsis-community.org/pg/debates/group:14358/ 
viewstatement/400536/400542/418609 

International  Council  for  Open  and  Distance  Education  (ICDE)  (2011). 

“Definition  of  Open  Educational  Practices.”  Retrieved  17  October  2011 
from:  www.icde.org/en/resources/open_educational_quality_inititiative/ 
definition_of_open_educational_practices/ 

Ijsselmuiden,  C.,  Nchinda,  T.,  Duale,  S.,  Tumwesigye,  N.  and  Serwadda,  D. 

(2007).  “Mapping  Africa’s  Advanced  Public  Health  Education  Capacity: 
The  Afrihealth  Project.”  Bulletin  of  the  World  Health  Organisation  85(12): 
914-22.  Retrieved  January  2010  from:  www.scielosp.org/scielo 

Illich,  I.  (1971).  Deschooling  Society.  Harper  & Row:  New  York. 

Lane,  A.  (2009).  “The  Impact  of  Openness  on  Bridging  Educational  Digital 

Divides.”  International  Review  of  Research  in  Open  and  Distance  Learning 
(IRRODL).  10(5).  Retrieved  from:  www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/article/ 
viewArticle/637 

Lascu,  D.  (2011).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  The  Bridge  to  Success  Project.” 

Educause  Quarterly  34(4).  Retrieved  6 February  2012  from:  www.educause. 

edu/EDUCAUSE+Quarterly/EDUCAUSEQuarterlyMagazineVolum/ 

OpenEducationalResourcesTheBri/242799 

Lee,  M.,  Albright,  S.,  O’Leary,  L.,  Geronimo  Terkla,  D.  and  Wilson,  N.  (2008). 

“Expanding  the  Reach  of  Health  Sciences  Education  and  Empowering 
Others:  The  OpenCourseWare  Initiative  at  Tufts  University.”  Medical 
Teacher  30(2):  159-163. 

Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  (MIT)  (2011).  “MIT  Launches  Online 

Learning  Initiative.”  MIT  News.  Retrieved  5 February  2012  from:  http:// 
web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2011/mitx-faq-1219 


77 


Mayes,  J.T.  and  Fowler,  C .J.H.  (1999).  “Learning  Technology  and  Usability:  A 

Framework  for  Understanding  Courseware.”  Interacting  with  Computers  11: 
485-497. 

McAndrew,  P.,  Santos,  A.,  Lane,  A.,  Godwin,  S.,  Okada,  A.,  Wilson,  T.,  Connolly, 

T.,  Ferreira,  G.,  Buckingham  Shum,  S.,  Bretts,  J.  and  Webb,  R.  (2009). 
OpenLearn  Research  Report  2006-2008.  The  Open  University,  Milton 
Keynes,  UK.  Retrieved  from:  http://oro.open.ac.uk/17513/ 

McAndrew,  P.  and  Weller,  M.J.  (2005).  “Applying  Learning  Design  to  Supported 
Open  Learning.”  In  Learning  Design:  A Handbook.  Tattersall,  C.  and  Koper, 
R.  (eds.).  Springer-Verlag:  Heidelberg. 

OERU  (2012).  “OER  University.”  Retrieved  29  May  2012  from:  http://wikieducator. 
org/ OER_university/Home 

OLnet  (2012).  “OER  Evidence  Hub.”  Retrieved  5 February  2012  from:  http:// 
ci.olnet.org 

Online  Portal  for  Advanced  Learning  (OPAL)  (2011a).  “Beyond  OER  - Shifting 
Focus  to  Open  Educational  Practices.”  Retrieved  3 February  2012  from: 
http://duepubbco.uni-duisburg-essen.de/servlets/DerivateServlet/ 
Derivate-25907/OPALReport2011-Beyond-OER.pdf 

Online  Portal  for  Advanced  Learning  (OPAL)  (2011b).  “OEP  Guide:  Guidelines  for 
Open  Educational  Practices  in  Organizations.”  Retrieved  3 February  2012 
from:  www.oer-quality.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/OPAL-OEP- 
guidelines.pdf 

OpenStudy  (2012).  “OpenStudy:  Study  Together.”  Retrieved  29  May  2012  from: 
http://openstudy.com/ 

Piaget,  J.  (1967).  Logique  et  Connaissance  Scientifique.  Encyclopedic  de  la  Pleiade. 

Rehak,  D.R.  and  Mason,  R.  (2003).  “Keeping  the  Learning  in  Learning  Object.”  In 
Reusing  Online  Resources:  A Sustainable  Approach  to  e-Learning.  Littlejohn,  A. 
(ed.).  Kogan-Page:  London,  pp.  20-34. 

Stetsenko  A.  and  Arievitch,  I.  (2010).  “Teaching,  Learning,  and  Development:  A 

Post-Vygotskian  Perspective.”  In  Learning  for  Life  in  the  21st  Century.  Wells, 
G.  and  Claxton,  G.  (eds.).  Blackwell:  Oxford,  pp.  84-96. 

Vavoula,  G.  (2004).  KLeOS:  A Knowledge  and  Learning  Organisation  System  in  Support 
of  Learning.  University  of  Birmingham:  Birmingham,  UK. 

Weller,  M.  (2011).  The  Digital  Scholar.  Bloomsbury:  London. 

Wiley,  D.  (2011).  “On  OER  - Beyond  Definitions.”  Retrieved  from  17  October  2011 
from:  http://opencontent.org/blog/archives/1780 

World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society  (WSIS)  (2011).  WSIS/OPAL/E- Oxford 
debate  on  mainstreaming  OER.  Retrieved  from  3 February  2012  from: 
www.wsis-community.org/pg/debates/group:  14358/overview/400536 

Vygotsky,  L.S.  (1978).  Mind  in  Society.  Harvard  University  Press:  Cambridge,  MA. 


78 


CHAPTER 


Realising  the  Open  in  Open 
Educational  Resources:  Practical 
Concerns  and  Solutions 


Norm  Friesen, 

Thompson  Rivers  University 


Introduction:  The  History  of  Open  Licensing 

The  term  “Open  Educational  Resources”  was  first  adopted  at  the  2002  UNESCO 
“Forum  on  the  Impact  of  Open  Courseware  for  Higher  Education  in  Developing 
Countries,”  sponsored  by  The  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation.  The 
term  was  defined  as  “the  open  provision  of  educational  resources,  enabled 
by  information  and  communication  technologies,  for  consultation,  use  and 
adaptation  by  a community  of  users  for  non-commercial  purposes”  (UNESCO 
2002,  p.  24). 

This  definition  and  its  emphasis  on  open  availability  and  non-commercial  use 
remains  central  in  the  way  the  term  is  understood,  used  and  also  discussed  (and 
at  times  disputed)  in  the  current  context.  The  key  is  that  these  resources,  unlike 
previous  attempts  to  create  collections  of  reusable  resources  and  communities  of 
users  (e.g.,  Roschelle  and  Kaput  1996),  are  to  be  available  under  licensing  that  is 
different  from  conventional  copyright,  and  also  that  it  is  not  to  be  encumbered 
by  digital  rights  management  or  other  mechanisms  for  enforcing  licensing 
restrictions. 

The  term  “openness,”  however,  can  be  understood  in  a wide  variety  of  ways. 

In  the  context  of  open  software  and  content  in  particular,  openness  has  been 
characterised  and  defined  in  different  ways.  As  early  as  1986,  Richard  Stallman, 
founder  of  the  Free  Software  Foundation,  emphasised  the  importance  of  being 
able  to  have  the  ability  to  “copy,”  “distribute”  and  “improve”  software,  and  to 
be  able  to  “exchange  the  changes  with  others”  (Stallman  1986,  p.  8).  These  four 
abilities,  or  “freedoms”  (copying,  distribution,  changing  and  distribution  of 
changes),  have  become  a central  part  of  the  notion  of  openness  in  connection 
with  content  generally  and  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  in  particular. 

One  frequently  referenced  set  of  criteria  for  the  area  of  content  echoes  Stallman’s 


79 


criteria,  and  is  referred  to  as  the  “4Rs  Framework”  by  David  Wiley.  It  outlines  the 
“primary  permissions  or  usage  rights  open  content”  as  follows  (Wiley  2009,  2011; 
WikiEducator  2011a): 

1.  Re-use  - the  right  to  re-use  the  content  in  its  unaltered/verbatim  form  (e.g., 
make  a back-up  copy  of  the  content) 

2.  Revise  - the  right  to  adapt,  adjust,  modify  or  alter  the  content  itself  (e.g., 
translate  the  content  into  another  language) 

3.  Remix  - the  right  to  combine  the  original  or  revised  content  with  other 
content  to  create  something  new  (e.g.,  incorporate  the  content  into  a 
mashup) 

4.  Redistribute  - the  right  to  share  copies  of  the  original  content,  your  revisions 
or  your  remixes  with  others  (e.g.,  give  a copy  of  the  content  to  a friend) 

This  and  other  articulations  of  openness  and  freedom,  applying  to  both  technical 
and  creative  works,  have  been  given  legal  force  and  definition  through  a range  of 
licences  that  have  been  developed  since  the  1980s.  As  Stallman’s  four  freedoms 
indicate,  these  licences  first  emerged  as  informal  practices  of  copying,  changing 
and  distributing  short  programmes  in  print  (and  other  forms).  They  then 
proliferated  and  the  label  “copyleft”  emerged  — more  as  a general  philosophy 
or  approach  than  a specific  solution  — to  describe  the  approach  to  intellectual 
property  associated  with  them. 

As  the  name  suggests,  copyleft  goes  slightly  further  than  simply  recognising 
Stallman’s  four  freedoms.  Instead  of  simply  modifying  or  lifting  copyright 
restrictions  to  enable  revision  and  (re)distribution,  copyleft  seeks  to  emphatically 
invert  these  restrictions.  Instead  of  declaring  “all  rights  reserved,"  the  idea  was 
(and  is)  to  have  “all  rights  reversed:’’  to  require  that  the  software  be  openly  available, 
regardless  of  how  it  might  be  modified  or  put  to  use,  sometimes  referred  to  as 
enforcing  “symmetric  collaboration”  (WikiEducator  2011b). 

Attempts  to  formalise  these  practices  in  different  contexts  and  for  different 
software  projects  led  to  a range  of  permutations,  and  applications  eventually  led 
to  the  proliferation  of  a range  of  types  of  licences.  These  include,  for  example,  the 
Open  BSD  and  GNU  General  Public  License  (BSD  and  GNU  being  software  and 
operating  system  projects),  the  Apache  licence  (Apache  being  popular  Web  server 
software)  and  the  Sun  Public  License  (formulated  for  a computer  company  later 
to  become  a part  of  Oracle).  In  fact,  the  not-for-profit  “Open  Source  Initiative” 
lists  69  different  “open  source  licences”  that  meet  their  specific  criteria  of  “open 
source”  specifically  for  software.  They  include  licences  for  special  purposes  such 
as  for  fonts,  and  others  that  can  only  be  used  by  the  authors  of  the  original  licence 
(for  more  information,  see  www.opensource.org/licenses/category  and  www.gnu. 
org/licenses/license-list.html). 

These  different  licences  reflect  the  different  interests  of  their  originators,  ranging 
from  hobbyists  and  hackers  to  academics  and  entrepreneurs.  This  is  particularly 
captured  in  the  question  of  requiring  derivatives  to  be  shared  as  the  original.  The 
MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology)  and  Apache  licences  allow  software 
to  be  revised  and  then  redistributed  without  restriction,  while  the  GNU  General 
Public  License  (not  to  be  confused  with  the  lesser  GNU  Public  License)  does  not. 
The  latter  very  explicitly  forbids  the  redistribution  of  modified  software  under  any 


80 


terms  other  than  those  of  the  same  licence,  a requirement  that  is  subsequently 
carried  to  all  subsequent  derivative  works. 

The  issue  of  combined  revision  and  equitable  redistribution  (or  the  requirement 
of  “symmetric  collaboration")  needs  to  be  highlighted  because  it  has  become 
contentious  in  defining  the  notion  of  open  and  free,  as  they  relate  both  to 
software  and  to  other  intellectual  and  creative  works.  For  example,  this  type  of 
licensing  has  been  derisively  described  as  viral  or  even  as  “a  cancer  that  attaches 
itself  in  an  intellectual  property  sense  to  everything  it  touches”  (Steve  Ballmer, 
as  quoted  in  Newbart  2001).  Adding  a relatively  minor  copyleft  component  (e.g., 
a software  module  or  an  illustration)  to  a substantial  copyright-protected  work 
(e.g.,  an  operating  system  or  a course  module)  can  have  the  effect  of  changing 
the  more  substantial  work  from  being  “copyright”  to  “copyleft.”  Through  a small 
addition  or  remix,  an  entire  software  system  or  course  would  now  have  to  be  made 
available  without  restrictions  on  its  further  distribution  and  revision. 

A similar  diversity  of  licences  for  educational  and  other  works  has  also  become 
manifest  outside  the  world  of  software  and  operating  systems.  Development 
of  alternative  licences  for  material  other  than  software  began  at  the  turn  of  the 
millennium,  beginning  with  the  OCL  (Open  Content  License)  developed  by 
David  Wiley  in  1998  (Wiley  1998)  with  assistance  from  Richard  Stallman.  Many 
other  licences  followed  for  Web  content  and  initiatives  for  facilitating  access  to 
and  use  of  these  contents.  These  include  the  GNU  Free  Documentation  License 
(GNU  FDL,  initially  developed  for  documentation  in  the  GNU  project  in  2000); 
the  Open  Directory  Project  License  (2010);  the  Open  Publication  License  (2007); 
and  the  Creative  Commons  licences  (2002). 


Creative  Commons:  Four  Licensing  Options  and  Tools 

It  is  the  Creative  Commons  licences  that  are  the  most  widely  used  in  online 
collections  of  learning  resources:  95  of  107  collections  using  standard  licences 
used  one  or  more  (or  a customization  of)  Creative  Commons  licences,  according  a 
recent  Hewlett  Foundation  study  (William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  2008). 

The  Creative  Commons  licences  also  take  a notably  different  approach  from  many 
other  efforts.  Instead  of  attempting  to  completely  remove  or  reverse  copyright 
restrictions,  the  Creative  Commons  approach  is  to  keep  “some  rights  reserved” 
through  a voluntary  selection  of  licences  with  different  types  and  levels  of 
restriction.  As  Wang  (2004,  pp.  305-306)  explains: 

“Creative  Commons  [(CC)  has]  established  a flexible  copyright 
implementing  model,  the  ‘some  rights  reserved’  model ...  which 
values  innovation  and  protection  equally.  CC  licenses  change  the 
traditional  mandatory  rights  assertion  into  a voluntary,  optional 
rights  approach.” 

These  licences,  along  with  what  Creative  Commons  has  characterised  as  the 
CC0  and  the  “public  domain  mark,”  constitute  the  focus  of  the  remainder  of 
this  chapter.  These  licences  have  been  developed  by  a non-profit  organisation  of 
the  same  name,  founded  by  law  professor  Lawrence  Lessig,  with  the  ambitious 
mission  of  realising  “the  full  potential  of  the  Internet  — universal  access  to 
research  and  education,  [and]  full  participation  in  culture”  (Creative  Commons 
2011). 


81 


In  keeping  with  this  ambition,  the  six  Creative  Commons  licences  have  been 
made  as  easy  as  possible  to  understand,  choose  and  apply  to  a work.  As  the 
Creative  Commons  homepage  explains: 

“Licensing  a work  is  as  simple  as  selecting  which  of  the  six  licenses 
best  meets  your  goals,  and  then  marking  your  work  in  some  way  so 
that  others  know  that  you  have  chosen  to  release  the  work  under  the 
terms  of  that  license.” 

As  one  member  of  the  “open  culture”  movement  describes  it  (Moller  2007),  the 
announcement  of  these  licences  has  been  perceived  as  an  enormous  boon  for 
those  wishing  to  make  their  work  freely  available: 

“When  the  Creative  Commons  project  published  its  first  licenses  in 
December  2002,  it  finally  brought  a sense  of  unity  to  the  free  culture 
movement.  Instead  of  having  to  choose  from  many  scattered  licenses, 
creators  now  have  the  option  to  pick  the  right  license  for  their  work 
using  a simple  tool.” 

Others  have  been  similarly  complimentary:  “It’s  got  to  be  CC  [Creative  Commons] 
or  we’re  not  using  it.  Because  that  just  removes  all  the  complexities”  (strategist,  as 
quoted  in  “OERs:  The  Value  of  Reuse  in  Higher  Education”  (Tabs  Aspire  2011).  As 
this  chapter  will  show,  it  is  unfortunately  not  quite  that  simple. 

All  of  the  six  Creative  Commons  licences  require  that  the  creator  of  the  original 
work  or  content  be  attributed,  and  this  is  the  only  requirement  of  the  most  simple 
of  these  licences,  the  “attribution”  (or  CC  BY)  licence.  The  question  is  how  to 
adequately  attribute  a work  in  compliance  with  this  licence,  as  when  attributing  a 
piece  of  material  via  a name  or  a citation  is  a matter  of  convention  and  differs  from 
one  context  and  medium  to  another.  The  Creative  Commons  website  provides 
some  best  practices,  as  does  a document  available  from  the  Australian  Research 
Council  Centre  of  Excellence  for  Creative  Industries  and  Innovation  (ARCCECII 
2009),  but  these  are  recommendations  only. 

Combined  with  attribution  (BY),  other  restrictions  or  requirements  articulated  in 
Creative  Commons  licences  are  as  follows: 

• CC-BY-NC  [non- commercial]:  Requires  the  content  to  be  used  only  in  non- 
commercial contexts  and  for  non-commercial  purposes. 

• CC-BY-ND  [no  derivatives]:  Restricts  modification  of  the  content  or  the 
creation  of  derivative  works  from  it. 

• CC-BY-SA  [share  alike]:  Requires  subsequent  users  to  license  derivative 
works  under  the  same  terms  as  the  original. 

Further  logical  combinations  of  these  requirements  constitute  the  remainder 
of  the  six  Creative  Commons  licences,  which  combine  the  non  commercial 
and  share-alike  restrictions  (CC-BY-NC-SA),  and  the  no  derivatives  and  non- 
commercial restrictions  (CC-BY-NC-ND). 

In  addition  to  these  licences  and  the  tools  to  choose  between  and  assign  them, 
Creative  Commons  has  more  recently  provided  two  further  ways  of  making  works 
available:  The  CC0  (CC-zero)  licence,  which,  as  the  initiative  explains  (2011),  allows: 

“creators  and  owners  of  copyright-  or  database-protected  content 
to  waive  those  interests  in  their  works  and  thereby  place  them  as 


82 


completely  as  possible  in  the  public  domain,  so  that  others  may  freely 
build  upon,  enhance  and  reuse  the  works  for  any  purposes  without 
restriction  under  copyright  or  database  law.” 

The  CCO  provides  the  most  complete  and  broadly  applicable  way  of  dedicating 
one’s  own  work  to  the  public  domain  — a process  which,  as  the  Creative 
Commons  text  points  out,  “few  if  any  jurisdictions ...  [provide]  a process  for  doing 
...  easily  and  reliably.” 

The  second  option  represents  a variation  on  this:  It  is  a “mark”  for  declaring  works 
by  third  parties  as  being  in  the  public  domain.  “The  Public  Domain  Mark  operates 
as  a tag  or  a label,  allowing  institutions  like  [museums  and  libraries] ...  with  such 
knowledge  to  communicate  that  a work  is  no  longer  restricted  by  copyright  and 
can  be  freely  used  by  others”  (Creative  Commons  2011). 

The  public  domain  mark  is  used,  for  example,  by  Wikipedia  to  label  photographs  of 
original  visual  art  works,  where  the  original  is  in  the  public  domain.  It  would  also 
apply  to  digitised  texts  copyrighted  prior  to  1923,  which  are  thus  in  the  public  domain 
(with  a few  exceptions;  http://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/okbooks.html). 


Practical  Concerns 

Practical  Concern  1:  The  Non-Commercial  (NC)  Restriction 

Like  the  restriction  to  attribute  a work,  almost  all  of  the  other  restrictions  specified 
in  the  Creative  Commons  licences  here  raise  some  practical  concerns,  questions 
and,  sometimes,  criticisms. 

One  licensing  category  that  has  been  the  source  of  some  controversy  is  the  NC 
restriction,  which  forbids  the  use  or  redistribution  of  a resource  “in  any  manner 
that  is  primarily  intended  for  or  directed  toward  commercial  advantage  or  private 
monetary  compensation”  (Creative  Commons  2011).  A resource  bearing  such 
a licence  cannot  appear  on  a webpage  that  has  commercial  advertising  or  in  a 
journal  that  requires  subscription.  Moller  (2007)  has  pointed  out  that: 

“Many  bloggers  and  blog  communities  on  the  web  use  advertising  as  a 
way  to  recoup  costs  and  generate  income....  [Their]  publications  often 
use  Google  Ads  to  make  some  extra  money.  Other  sites  use  small- 
scale  subscription  models  to  unlock  additional  features  and  content 
or  disable  advertising....  Compilations  which  are  sold  are  another 
example  of  commercial  use.  For  example,  if  one  MP3  music  file  which 
is  licensed  for  non- commercial  use  only  is  included  among  thousands 
on  a DVD  collecting  free  music  and  sold  for  a small  personal  profit, 
that  is  a violation  of  the  license.” 

Moller  argues  that  the  NC  restriction  also  “effectively  supports]  the  existing, 
extremely  [restrictive] ...  international  copyright  terms,”  which  prevent  a work 
from  being  used  for  commercial  purposes  for  70  years  after  the  authors’  death. 

In  addition,  it  is  worth  noting  that  nearly  half  of  the  107  collections  listed  in  the 
2008  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  study  that  use  standard  Creative 
Commons  licences  require  this  non-commercial  restriction.  At  the  same  time, 
public  educational  organisations  are  frequently  classified  as  being  not  for  profit. 

As  such,  their  purposes  are  not  strictly  commercial  or  oriented  towards  “private 


83 


monetary  compensation.”  Thus,  even  when  those  organisations  charge  tuition 
and  fees  for  other  services,  the  use  of  OER  is  considered  to  be  non-commercial. 

Practical  Concern  2:  Compatibility  Between  Licences 

A second  issue  of  importance  for  distance  and  open  education  organisations 
and  others  wishing  to  use  or  create  Creative  Commons  licensed  content  is  the 
matter  of  the  compatibility  between  different  licences.  Content  licensed  under 
one  Creative  Commons  licence  cannot  necessarily  be  combined  or  remixed 
with  a resource  bearing  a different  Creative  Commons  licence.  For  example,  the 
non-commercial  restriction,  as  Moller  noted,  does  not  work  particularly  well 
with  licences  that  do  not  impose  the  same  restriction.  For  example,  material 
with  the  NC  restriction  could  not  be  incorporated  on  a page  that  contains  other 
open  material  along  with  a set  of  Google  AdWords.  Highlighting  specifically  the 
incompatibility  of  the  non-commercial  with  the  share-alike  restriction,  Moller 
(2007)  explains: 

“You  can  make  derivative  works,  but  they  have  to  be  licensed 
under  the  same  terms.  You  cannot  make  a derivative  work  through 
addition  of  -NC  content,  as  you  can  no  longer  apply  the  (more  liberal) 
‘share-alike'  license  to  the  entire  work.  This  is  true  even  for  Creative 
Commons’  own  licenses:  You  cannot  combine,  for  example,  BY-SA 
content  with  BY-NC-SA  content.” 

Since  revising  material,  remixing  it  and  then  redistributing  it  covers  three  of 
Wiley’s  four  criteria  for  “open”  content,  incompatibilities  of  these  kinds  are 
significant,  and  are  considered  in  some  detail  here.  (Note  that  problems  with 
licence  incapability,  such  as  between  the  BSD  and  the  GNU  licences,  existed  well 
before  the  introduction  of  the  tools  and  resources  of  Creative  Commons.)  As  a 
table  included  in  the  Creative  Commons  FAQ  indicates,  there  are  no  fewer  than  25 
incompatibilities  out  of  a possible  36  combinations  of  their  six  licences  (Creative 
Commons  2012).  (Indeed,  such  a licence  incapability,  between  the  BY  licence  of 
Creative  Commons  and  the  BY-NC-ND  licence  of  the  publisher  of  this  collection 
would  prevent  me  from  reproducing  this  same  table  here.) 

What  is  more  important,  though,  is  the  potential  limitation  on  revision  and  re- 
use presented  by  the  presence  of  licence  incompatibilities  between  collections  of 
resources.  As  indicated  earlier,  the  majority  of  OER  and  resource  collections  use 
licences  from  Creative  Commons.  However,  the  Creative  Commons  licences  that 
they  use  vary  considerably.  Resources  from  Connexions,  a popular  collection  of 
Rice  University,  have  a relatively  open  BY  licence,  and  can  be  recombined  with 
resources  from  any  of  the  other  collections.  However,  it  is  the  very  openness  of 
this  licence  that  sometimes  prevents  the  incorporation  of  resources  with  different 
licences.  In  other  words,  a relatively  small  Connexions  resource  could  not  be 
permissibly  combined  with  a larger  resource  with  a more  restrictive  licence;  and 
any  combination  of  a Connexions  resource  with  a differently  licensed  resource 
could  not  then  be  housed  in  a collection  using  more  restrictive  licensing  terms. 

Translating  the  licence  types  into  different,  well-known  OER  collections  shows 
that  fully  half  (15  of  30)  of  the  possible  combinations  of  resources  from  the 
different  collections  listed  in  Table  6.1  (and  from  collections  with  the  same 
licences)  are  not  permissible.  The  ones  that  readily  allow  for  combinations  and 


84 


remixing,  and  the  collection  and  redistribution  of  such  resources,  are  those 
that  impose  the  least  restriction.  In  addition,  it  is  important  to  note  that  the 
public  domain  and  CCO  options,  as  shown  in  Table  6.1,  allow  for  nearly  the  same 
flexibility  as  the  Creative  Commons  BY  licence. 

Table  6.1 : Compatibility  of  resources  for  remixing,  by  collection 

...  can  or  cannot  be  remixed  and  redistributed  with  one  from  ... 

An  OER  from  one  of  these 


collections  (or  with  one  of 
these  licences): 

Connexions 

BY 

EduTools 

BY-NC 

JISC 

BY-NC-ND 

MIT  Courseware 
BY-NC-SA 

WikiEducator 

BY-SA 

Public  Domain,  CCO 

S 

V 

S 

V 

S 

Connexions,  BY 

S 

V 

S 

V 

V 

EduTools,  BY-NC 

X 

V 

S 

V 

X 

JISC,  BY-NC 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

MIT  Courseware,  BY-NC 

X 

X 

X 

V 

X 

Commonwealth  of 
Learnino 

X 

X 

X 

X 

s 

It  is  not  surprising,  then,  that  the  recent  study  from  the  Hewlett  Foundation 
from  which  this  data  is  taken  concludes:  “The  terms  of  different  licenses 
are  often  incompatible  with  one  another  in  a way  that  prevents  combining 
materials  from  different  providers”  (William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation 
2008,  p.  13). 

Practical  Concern  3:  Share-Alike 

As  indicated  above,  one  Creative  Commons  restriction  (and  variations  of  it 
in  other  licences)  is  of  particular  concern  for  open  and  distance  educations 
organisations,  especially  those  with  a legacy  of  content.  This  is  the  “symmetrical 
collaboration”  or  “share-alike”  restriction.  It  allows  subsequent  users  to  “alter, 
transform,  or  build  upon  [the]  work,”  but  only  under  the  condition  that  “the 
resulting  work  ...  [may  be  distributed]  only  under  the  same,  similar  or  a compatible 
license.” 

This  is  clearly  one  of  the  most  popular  types  of  Creative  Commons  licences. 

It  is  used  by  Wikipedia  and  its  sister  projects  and  is  assigned  to  about  45 
million  photos  on  Flickr.  And  46  out  of  105  projects  listed  by  the  William  and 
Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  use  a licence  with  this  restriction.  This  share-alike 
restriction  means  that  the  inclusion  of  a relatively  minor  addition  to  a work 
that  bears  the  “SA”  requirement,  such  as  a photo  or  audio  clip  in  a course 
module,  would  need  to  be  “shared  alike.”  This  means  the  resource  has  to  be 
explicitly  described  as  being  free  not  only  of  legal  restrictions,  but  also  of 
unnecessary  technological  barriers  to  access  — for  example,  being  distributed 
in  a PDF  format  that  does  not  allow  for  editing  and  other  operations.  (So,  a 
restriction  might  state:  “You  may  not  Use  the  Work  with  any  technological 
measures  that  control  access  or  use  of  the  Work  in  a manner  inconsistent 
with  the  terms  of  this  License  Agreement.”)  This  presents  obvious  difficulties 
related  to  branding,  quality  assurance  and  the  overall  business  model  of  some 


85 


educational  institutions.  For  example,  work  under  this  licence  could  not  be 
used  by  an  organisation  that  requires  students  to  log  on  (say,  to  a learning 
management  system  like  Moodle)  to  access  course  materials,  unless  it  is  also 
shared  alike  in  both  legal  and  technical  terms.  It  would  present  problems  to  a 
similar  organisation  wishing  to  control  how  and  when  its  materials  work  under 
this  licence  and  branding  appear  and  are  circulated  in  public.  Additionally,  it 
presents  challenges  for  publishers  and  distributors  of  content  whose  business 
model  is  based  on  the  limited  availability  of  such  content. 

It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that  the  share-alike  restriction  has  also  been  the 
subject  of  much  debate,  as  indicated  by  blog  articles  (e.g.,  Blackall  2007)  and 
online  debates  (e.g.,  WikiEducator  2007). 

Still,  this  share-alike  provision  is  not  absolute  or  unconditional,  and  the  extended 
legal  documentation  that  constitutes  both  the  Canadian  and  U.S.  versions  of  this 
licence  identifies  an  important  set  of  exceptions  that  may  be  of  some  importance 
to  open  and  distance  education  organisations.  These  are  the  exceptions  provided 
by  the  definition  of  “collective  work”  in  the  licence.  Such  a collective  or  aggregate 
creation  is  defined  in  this  text  in  relation  to  a given  resource  (the  “work”)  licensed 
under  this  Creative  Commons  provision  (Attribution-Share Alike  2.5  Canada 
2009): 

“‘Collective  Work’  means  a work,  such  as  a dictionary,  yearbook, 
encyclopedia,  or  a newspaper,  review  magazine  or  singular 
periodical  and  any  work  written  in  distinct  parts  by  different 
authors,  or  in  which  works  or  parts  of  works  of  different  authors  are 
incorporated.  A work  that  constitutes  a Collective  Work  will  not  be 
considered  a Derivative  Work  (as  defined  below)  for  the  purposes  of 
this  license.” 

This  definition  presents  the  collective  work,  in  other  words,  as  a kind  of  aggregate 
work  that  is  exempt  from  the  “viral”  characteristic  of  copyleft.  A resource  with 
a Creative  Commons  Share-Alike  licence  can  be  “incorporated”  into  a collective 
work  (such  as  a review  magazine  or  singular  periodical)  without  the  resulting 
aggregation  being  seen  simply  as  a “derivative  work”  and  as  subject  as  a whole 
to  copyleft.  The  Creative  Commons  licence  FAQ  provides  other  examples  of 
collective  works,  including  anthologies  and  broadcasts. 

This  exception  is  made  in  the  case  of  works  that  can  be  seen  to  be  aggregations 
of  multiple  contributions,  with  each  contribution  (in  the  words  of  the  American 
licence)  “constituting  [a]  separate  and  independent”  work  in  itself. 

Given  the  wording  of  these  provisions  and  examples,  it  is  possible  to  draw 
conclusions  about  a number  of  types  of  resources  and  forms  of  resource 
integration  that  are  likely  to  fit  with  the  quality  concerns  and  business  model 
of  many  distance  and  open  learning  organisations.  A number  of  types  of 
combinations  of  copyleft  and  (conventional)  copyright  resources  — and  the  kind 
of  collective  work  that  they  would  constitute  together  — are  listed  in  Table  6.2. 

The  first  three  rows  provide  examples  of  copyleft  resources  that  could  be  used 
together  with  resources  bearing  other  licences  (including  unmodified  copyright 
restrictions)  to  constitute  a collective  work  that  would  be  for  the  exclusive  use 
of  a single  organisation.  The  second  two  rows  provide  examples  of  resources  for 
which  it  is  difficult  to  be  certain  about  the  status  of  other  resource  types  and  their 


86 


combinations  on  other  kinds  of  collective  works.  And  the  three  bottom  rows 
provide  examples  of  combinations  with  share-alike  resources  that  would  not  be 
permissible  under  any  circumstances. 

Table  6.2:  Combinations  of  educational  works  likely  to  constitute  a non-public  collective  work 


Copyleft  resource 

Copyright  resources 

Collective  work  incorporating  both 

Textbook  (e.g.,  from 
textbookrevolution.org) 

Online  course  resources  or  a 
“course  manual” 

“Course”  constituted  through 
the  provision  of  the  two 
resources. 

Combinations 

acceptable  for 
use  by  a single 
organisation 

Article  (e.g.,  from 
DOAJ) 

Other  articles/readings 

Readings  associated  with  course 

Video  or  audio  podcast8 

Other  multimedia  resources 

Bibliography  of  multimedia 
resources  for  course 

Podcast  on  iTunes 

Course  manual  instructing 

Integrated  course  resource 

Combinations 
in  which  the 

University  (accessed 
via  iTunes) 

students  to  access  iTunes 
podcasts 

requiring  the  use  of  other 
resources 

status  of  some 
resource  types 
is  uncertain 

Collection  of  resources 
(e.g.,  merlot.org) 

Integrated  course  resource 
online  referencing  specific 
resources  in  the  copyleft 
collection 

Integrated  course  resource 
requiring  the  use  of  other 
resources 

Interactive  resource 
(e.g.,  simulation  from 
merlot.org) 

Specific  exercises  for  the  use  of 
the  simulation 

Fully  integrated  course  manual 
or  other  kind  of  resource 

Combinations 

not 

permissable 
under  any 

Photograph  from 
Flickr  or  diagram  from 
Wikipedia 

Text  referencing  photo  or 
diagram  and  its  particular 
contents 

Fully  integrated  course  manual 
or  other  kind  of  resource 

circumstances 

Video  or  audio  podcast 
(e.g.,  clip  from  YouTube 
EDU) 

Webpage  from  course  materials 
that  directly  embeds  YouTube 
player  and  clip,  and  adds 
contextualising  text 

Password-protected  Web 
(HTML)  documents  constituting 
course  materials 

a The  effective  limitation  of  the  collective  work  to  "written  works”  in  the  Canadian  version  of  the  licence  casts  the 
viability  of  this  last  example  into  some  doubt  where  “Canadian"  resources  referencing  this  licence  are  concerned. 
Note  that  such  a limitation  (to  text  and  writing)  is  not  present  in  the  American  licence. 


It  is  important  to  note  that,  based  on  these  sets  of  resource  combinations,  types 
of  resources  and  forms  of  integration  are  of  paramount  importance.  As  long  as 
resources  licensed  under  the  share-alike  provision  are  unmodified  and  otherwise 
retain  their  integrity  as  individual  works,  they  can  be  brought  together  with  other 
materials  in  Collective  Works. 


Conclusion 

Although  the  implications  of  the  practical  considerations  discussed  here 
are  complex  and  manifold,  there  are  some  fairly  simple  conclusions  and 
recommendations  that  can  be  formulated  for  OER  collectors,  developers  and 
others  in  open  and  distance  education  institutions. 

First,  in  investing  in  OER,  whether  as  a creator,  collector  or  institution,  it  is 
important  to  recognise  that  licences  have  far  more  implications  than  what  might 
initially  appear  the  case.  The  NC  restriction  is  a good  example.  This  restriction  can 
prevent  ah  kinds  of  use  within  the  public  and  not-for-profit  sectors  or  contexts, 
as  well  as  in  the  for-profit  sector.  Many  of  these  uses  would  not  be  immediately 


87 


recognisable  to  creators  or  others  who  would  be  inclined  to  label  their  resource 
with  this  licence. 

Second,  concerning  the  complex  issue  of  compatibility  between  licences,  the 
situation  is  best  summed  up  in  “you  get  as  good  as  you  give”  or  “what  goes  around 
comes  around.”  Collections,  designs  and  individual  resources  with  more  open 
terms  of  use  will  be  more  flexible  in  terms  of  what  they  can  incorporate.  The 
more  restrictive  the  licence  chosen  in  connection  with  OER,  the  more  limited  the 
possibilities  for  the  resource  and  the  collection  bearing  that  licence. 

These  points  are  particularly  important  to  keep  in  mind  in  light  of  the  original 
intention  behind  OER.  In  their  final  declaration,  the  participants  in  the  UNESCO 
forum  expressed  their  “wish  to  develop  together  a universal  educational  resource 
available  for  the  whole  of  humanity  to  be  referred  to  henceforth  as  Open 
Educational  Resources”  (2002,  p.  6).  They  contextualised  this  ambitious  aspiration 
by  comparing  their  vision  to  UNESCO’s  existing  programme  for  the  identification 
and  preservation  of  “cultural  and  natural  heritage  around  the  world  considered  to 
be  of  outstanding  value  to  humanity”  (UNESCO  2009):  “Following  the  example 
of  the  World  Heritage  of  Humanity,  preserved  by  UNESCO,  [we]  hope  that  this 
open  resource  for  the  future  mobilises  the  whole  of  the  worldwide  community  of 
educators”  (UNESCO  2002,  p.  28).  Such  a resource  would  undoubtedly  have  this 
mobilising  potential,  but  for  this  value  to  be  realised,  the  worldwide  community 
of  educators  needs  to  be  willing  to  collaborate  on  terms  that  are  as  open  and 
flexible  as  possible. 


References 

ARCCECII  (2009).  “Attributing  Creative  Commons  Materials.”  The  Australian 
Research  Council  Centre  of  Excellence  for  Creative  Industries  and 
Innovation.  Retrieved  from:  http://creativecommons.org.au/content/ 
attributingccmaterials.pdf 

Aung-Thwin,  M.,  Baulu,  K.  and  Wong  G.Y.G.  (2008).  Rip!  A Remix  Manifest. 

[documentary  by  Brett  Gaylor  about  copyright  and  remix  culture]. 
National  Film  Board  of  Canada:  Ottawa. 

Blackall,  L.  (2007).  “The  Illogical  Rhetoric  of  Share  Alike.”  Retrieved  5 November 
2011  from:  http://learnonline.wordpress.eom/2007/05/04/the-illogical- 
rhetoric-of-share-alike/ 

Creative  Commons  (2010a).  “Creative  Commons  Legal  Code:  Attribution- 

NonCommercial  2.5  Canada.”  Retrieved  29  January  2010  from:  http:// 
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.5/ca/legalcode.en 

Creative  Commons  (2010b).  “Creative  Commons  Legal  Code:  Attribution- 
ShareAlike  2.5  Canada.”  Retrieved  29  January  2010  from:  http:// 
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/ca/legalcode.en 

Creative  Commons  (2011).  “Our  Public  Domain  Tools.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
creativecommons.org/publicdomain/ 

Creative  Commons  (2012).  Frequently  Asked  Questions.  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
wiki.creativecommons.org/Frequently_Asked_Questions 


88 


Greene,  T.C.  (2001).  “Ballmer:  ‘Linux  Is  a Cancer:  Contaminates  All  Other 

Software  with  Hippie  GPL  Rubbish.'”  The  Register.  Retrieved  29  January 

2010  from:  www.theregister.co.uk/2001/06/02/ballmer_linux_is_a_ 
cancer/ 

Johns,  A.  (2009).  Piracy:  The  Intellectual  Property  Wars  from  Gutenberg  to  Gates. 
University  of  Chicago  Press:  Chicago. 

Moller,  E.  (2007).  “The  Case  for  Free  Use:  Reasons  Not  to  Use  a Creative  Commons- 
NC  License.”  Retrieved  29  January  2010  from:  http://freedomdefined.org/ 
Licenses/NC 

Newbart,  D.  (1  June  2001).  “Microsoft  CEO  Takes  Launch  Break  with  the  Sun- 
Times.”  Chicago  Sun-Times.  [Internet  archive  link]. 

Roschelle,  J.  and  Kaput,  J.  (1996).  “Educational  Software  Architecture  and 
Systemic  Impact:  The  Promise  of  Component  Software.”  Journal  of 
Educational  Computing  Research  14(3):  217-228. 

Stallman,  R.M.  (1986).  “What  Is  the  Free  Software  Foundation?”  GNU’s  Bulletin  1(1):  8-9. 

Tabs  Aspire  (2011).  “OER:  The  Value  of  Reuse  in  Higher  Education.”  Retrieved 

from:  http://talisaspire.com/2011/09/19/oer-the-value-of-reuse-in-higher- 
education/ 

UNESCO  (2002).  “Forum  on  the  Impact  of  Open  Courseware  for  Higher  Education 
in  Developing  Countries.”  Final  report.  Retrieved  23  January  2009  from: 
http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0012/001285/128515e.pdf 

UNESCO  (2009).  “About  World  Heritage.”  Retrieved  23  January  2009  from:  http:// 
whc.unesco.org/en/about/ 

Wang,  C.  (2004).  “Creative  Commons  License:  An  Alternative  Solution 
to  Copyright  in  the  New  Media  Arena.”  Retrieved  5 November 

2011  from:  http://ses.library.usyd.edu.aU/bitstream/2123/2360/l/ 
CopyrightAsiaPacific_Chl4.pdf 

WikiEducator  (2007).  “CC  BY  SA”  [was:  “Make  Internet  TV  guide”;  discussion 

thread],  http://groups.google.com/group/wikieducator/browse_thread/ 
thread/bde99daf87bab61b?pli=l 

WikiEducator  (2011a).  “Defining  OER.”  Retrieved  5 November  2011  from:  http:// 
wikieducator.org/Educators_care/Defining_OER#cite_note-wiley-l 

WikiEducator  (2011b).  “Which  License  Should  I Choose?”  Retrieved  5 November 
2011  from:  http://wikieducator.org/OER_Handbook/educator_version_ 
one/License/Which_license_should_I_choose%3F 

Wikipedia  (2011).  “Copyleft.”  Retrieved  2 November  2011  from:  http:// 

en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Copyleft&oldid=455736624 

Wiley,  D.  (1998).  “Open  Content.”  OpenContent.org.  Retrieved  1 January  2010 

from:  http://web.archive.org/web/19990429221830/www.opencontent. 
org/home . shtmln 

Wiley,  D.  (2009).  “Defining  ‘Open.'”  Retrieved  5 November  2011  from:  http:// 
opencontent.org/blog/archives/1123 

Wiley,  D.  (2011).  “OER  101:  Theory  and  Practice.”  Retrieved  5 November  2011 
from : http  ://opencontent  .org/blog/page/ 1 7 


89 


William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation.  (2008).  “What  Status  for  ‘Open’?  An 

Examination  of  the  Licensing  Policies  of  Open  Educational  Organizations 
and  Projects.”  Retrieved  29  January  2010  from:  http://learn. 
creativecommons.org/what-status-for-open 


90 


CHAPTER 


Approaches  to  the  Production  and 
Use  of  OERs:  The  African  Virtual 
University  Experience 


Bakary  Diallo,  Catherine  Wangeci  Thuo  (Kariuki)  and  Clayton  R.  Wright, 
African  Virtual  University 


Introduction 

Information  and  communication  technologies  (ICTs)  are  at  the  forefront  of  the 
post-industrial  economy  (Diallo  2005).  As  we  enter  the  second  decade  of  the 
21st  century,  the  Internet,  the  World  Wide  Web,  computers,  mobile  devices  and 
their  applications  have  impacted  nearly  every  aspect  of  our  lives.  They  have 
redefined  our  perception  of  time  and  space  by  providing  the  possibility  to  see, 
interact,  share  information  and  speak  to  anyone  from  anywhere.  Social  media  has 
empowered  individuals  and  communities,  who  can  generate,  manage,  distribute, 
share,  publish  and  access  text,  sound  and  images. 

New  types  of  learners  and  learning  are  emerging  through  online  communities. 
The  academic  literature  reveals  that  all  aspects  of  education  have  been  affected  by 
ICTs  (Germain-Rutherford  and  Diallo  2006). 

In  this  context,  it  is  crucial  to  think  innovatively  and  to  act  strategically  and 
promptly  in  order  to  adapt  and  improve  the  role  of  universities  in  this  fast- 
changing environment  (Diallo  et  al.  2010).  One  of  the  core  activities  of  higher 
education  or  education  at  large,  teaching  and  learning,  is  being  recalibrated  to 
align  not  only  with  the  pedagogical  theories  and  principles  of  integrating  ICT,  but 
also  with  the  needs  and  interest  of  learners. 

The  design,  production  and  delivery  of  academic  content  has  largely  benefited 
from  possibilities  offered  by  digital  devices,  Web  2.0,  learning  management 
systems  and  social  media.  The  flexibility  to  access  academic  content, 
synchronously  and  asynchronously,  has  made  it  possible  to  reach  multiple 
learners  in  multiple  locations.  In  this  situation,  Open  Educational  Resources 
(OER)  are  opening  a new  horizon  for  formal  and  informal  learning.  OER  can 
facilitate  access  to  educational  resources  and  quality  education  while  reducing 
cost. 


91 


In  this  chapter,  we  consider  the  OER  in  a practical  way,  moving  beyond  their 
definition  and  policy  consideration.  Our  focus  is  primarily  on  the  approach  used 
by  the  African  Virtual  University  (AVU)  to  develop  and  use  OER  in  Africa.  We 
examine  the  use  of  OER  for  accredited  programmes  and  for  non-formal  learning, 
as  well  as  the  need  to  make  OER  relevant  to  the  local  context.  Thus,  this  material 
will  contribute  to  understanding  how  OER  can  be  developed  and  used  in  the 
African  context  and  may  lead  others  to  apply  principles  and  processes  learned  by 
the  AVU  in  their  situation. 


The  AVU  Approach  to  the  Production  and  Use  of  OERs 

The  AVU  is  a pan-African  intergovernmental  organisation  established  by  charter 
with  the  mandate  to  significantly  increase  access  to  quality  higher  education 
and  training  through  the  innovative  use  of  ICTs.  The  charter  has  been  signed  by 
several  African  nations.  The  AVU  has  its  headquarters  in  Nairobi,  Kenya,  and  a 
regional  office  in  Senegal.  It  has  host-country  agreements  and  diplomatic  status 
with  the  two  governments. 

The  AVU  Business  Plan  2009-2014  has  two  main  thrusts:  (a)  educational  and 
support  services  provided  on  a fee  basis;  and  (b)  not-for-profit  development 
services.  The  not-for-profit  development  services  focus  on  building  the  capacity 
of  AVU  partner  institutions  with  the  objective  of  increasing  access  to  quality 
education  through  the  following  activities: 

• updating  and  developing  content, 

• OER  development, 

• training  of  trainers, 

• distance  and  eLearning  infrastructure, 

• developing  professional  networks  through  communities  of  practice, 

• research  and  development,  and 

• quality  evaluation  and  benchmarking. 

Developing  and  Delivering  OER  Collaboratively 

Recognising  the  importance  of  increasing  access  to  tertiary  education  in  Sub- 
Saharan  Africa  and  the  role  of  ICT  as  a key  component  of  development,  the  AVU 
implemented  a project  that  demonstrated  the  possibilities  of  open  distance  and 
eLearning  strategies. 

With  primary  funding  from  the  African  Development  Bank  (AfDB)  and  partial 
funding  from  the  United  Nations  Development  Program  (UNDP)  Somalia,  the 
project,  called  the  AVU  Multinational  Project,  was  implemented  in  ten  countries. 
The  12  institutions  involved  in  this  initiative  include: 

• Jimma  University  in  Ethiopia 

• University  of  Nairobi  in  Kenya 

• Universite  d’Antananarivo  in  Madagascar 

• Universidade  Pedagogica  in  Mozambique 

• Universite  Cheikh  Anta  Diop  (UCAD)  in  Senegal 


92 


• Amoud  University,  University  of  Hargeisa  and  East  Africa  University  in 
Somalia 

• Open  University  of  Tanzania 

• Kyambogo  University  in  Uganda 

• University  of  Zambia 

• University  of  Zimbabwe 

While  the  selection  of  participating  countries  was  executed  by  the  African 
Development  Bank,  the  selection  of  a participating  institution  in  each  country 
was  undertaken  by  the  AVU  in  conjunction  with  the  ministries  of  education  in 
the  various  countries.  A competitive  process  was  meticulously  executed  to  ensure 
that  only  those  institutions  that  were  capable  of  implementing  the  project  were 
selected. 

A comprehensive  approach  was  introduced  to  address  the  untapped  potential 
among  academic  staff.  Also,  many  challenges  that  limit  the  effective  use  of  ICT 
in  education  in  the  Sub-Saharan  African  context  were  addressed.  These  include 
lack  of  or  restrictive  institutional  policies,  lack  of  infrastructure,  limited  access 
to  the  Internet  and  ICT  equipment,  lack  of  reliable  power,  limited  availability  of 
quality  eLearning  programmes,  lack  of  professional  development  opportunities 
for  faculty  and  poorly  motivated  faculty  members. 

In  order  to  develop  the  OER  in  a collaborative  manner  and  to  address  the 
challenges  associated  with  the  deployment  and  support  of  the  learning  materials, 
four  main  activities  were  conducted  as  outlined  below. 

• Establishment  of  ten  functional  eLearning  centres  to  serve  as  institutional 
and  country  hubs  for  the  development,  delivery  and  management  of 
eLearning  programmes  - The  centres  also  serve  as  physical  locations  for 
research  and  a revenue  generator  for  the  institutions. 

• Training  of  university  staff  members  in  course  material  development,  Web 
design,  instructional  technology,  and  the  delivery  and  management  of 
eLearning. 

• Development  and  delivery  of  ICT-integrated  teacher  education  programmes 
structured  as  four  Bachelors  of  Education  in  Mathematics,  Physics, 
Chemistry  and  Biology  - In  addition,  diploma  and  certificate  programmes 
were  also  developed. 

• Mainstreaming  of  gender  issues  in  tertiary  education  through  the 
development  of  a guiding  framework  and  gender-responsive  materials, 
and  the  awarding  of  scholarships  in  science-based  programmes  in  order  to 
promote  the  educational  development  of  women. 

The  results  of  the  actions  taken  above  include:  the  installation  of  ten  functional 
eLearning  centres;  the  training  of  459  faculty  members;  the  production  of  219 
textbooks  available  in  three  languages;  the  provision  of  537  scholarships  to 
females  and  other  disadvantaged  groups;  and,  as  of  January  2011,  enrolment  of 
4,000  students.  One  of  the  most  important  accomplishments  is  the  production 
of  the  219  textbooks  that  were  released  as  OER  and  that  are  available  through  an 
interactive  portal  called  OER@AVU. 


93 


The  Consortium  Program  Model 

The  objectives  for  developing  the  programmes  were  to  improve  the  quality  of 
teaching  and  learning  in  schools  through  the  use  of  ICTs;  to  increase  the  number 
of  mathematics,  science  and  ICT  basic  skills  teachers;  and  to  promote  regional 
integration  as  well  as  strengthen  relevant  partnerships  with  other  teacher 
education  initiatives  in  Africa.  The  key  components  of  the  Consortium  Program 
Model  are  related  to  policy  and  curriculum  conceptualisation,  curriculum  design, 
content  development,  content  production,  content  delivery,  quality  assurance  and 
accreditation,  and  management  of  the  consortium  and  OERs.  These  components 
are  described  below. 

Policy  and  Curriculum  Conceptualisation  Workshop 

To  ensure  that  the  programme  was  well  conceptualised  and  that  it  addressed 
the  needs  of  the  participating  countries,  the  AVU  convened  a Policy  and 
Curriculum  Conceptualisation  Workshop  that  drew  participation  from  the 
ministries  of  education,  the  Teachers  Service  Commission  (or  their  equivalent) 
and  representatives  from  the  selected  co-ordinating  institutions.  To  enrich 
the  workshop’s  outcomes,  teacher  education  and  open  distance  and  eLearning 
experts  from  all  over  the  world  were  invited  to  the  workshop.  The  outcomes  of 
this  workshop  included  the  development  of  policies  to  guide  the  programme  and 
to  conceptualise  the  curriculum  (AVU  2005).  The  collaborative  process  and  the 
engagement  of  experts  in  the  relevant  areas  ensured  that  the  outcomes  of  the 
workshop  presented  the  programme  with  guidelines  that  would  ensure  high- 
quality  outputs. 

Curriculum  Design  Process 

In  line  with  the  collaborative  approach  adopted  by  the  AVU,  subject  matter 
experts  from  the  participating  institutions  and  seasoned  ICT  educational  experts 
from  all  over  the  world  engaged  in  the  curriculum  design  process.  During  the 
curriculum  design  workshop,  the  items  below  were  accomplished. 

• Through  a curriculum  mapping  process,  the  Mathematics,  Chemistry, 
Physics,  Biology  and  Teaching  curricula  were  analysed  and  harmonised 
for  all  12  universities.  In  addition,  recommendations  for  developing  open 
distance  and  eLearning  modules  were  drafted. 

• Common  thematic  areas  in  the  curriculum  of  the  12  universities  from 
the  ten  countries  were  identified,  as  well  as  how  ICTs  would  be  used  in  the 
teaching  and  learning  of  Mathematics,  Chemistry,  Physics,  Biology  and 
Teacher  Education. 

• The  following  items  were  established  based  on  the  policy  and  curriculum 
conceptualisation  deliberations:  learning  objectives,  learning  outcomes, 
assessment  strategy,  learner  support  requirements  and  a quality  assurance 
framework. 

• Basic  ICT  competencies  needed  by  the  teachers  were  identified  and 
recommendations  for  an  appropriate  in-service  and  pre-service  teachers' 
curriculum  were  drafted. 


94 


Content  Development  Process 

The  content  development  process,  structured  in  three  phases,  led  to  the 
production  of  73  textbooks  which  were  translated  into  two  other  languages, 
making  it  a total  of  219  textbooks.  All  textbooks  were  developed  and  peer- 
reviewed  by  African  subject  matter  experts  from  the  12  participating  institutions. 
This  process  was  supervised  by  ICT  integration  educational  consultants  who  were 
competitively  engaged  from  both  the  African  continent  and  beyond.  The  subject 
matter  experts  or  authors  and  peer  reviewers  were  recruited  in  collaboration  with 
the  participating  institutions. 

Each  phase  of  the  development  process  started  with  a content  development 
workshop  during  which  the  subject  matter  experts  were  trained  in  the  skills  of 
identifying  and  presenting  eLearning  content.  Subject  matter  experts  were  required 
to  insert  subject  matter,  learning  activities,  assessment  activities  and  references  into 
an  adopted  template.  For  each  workshop,  a gender  expert  trained  the  subject  matter 
experts  on  developing  material  that  are  gender  responsive.  Once  the  textbooks  were 
drafted,  they  were  given  to  the  peer  reviewers  for  comment.  Then,  the  authors  were 
given  the  opportunity  to  revise  and  finalise  the  material.  Peer  reviewers  did  not 
review  a draft  written  by  a colleague  from  the  same  institution. 

Authors  and  peer  reviewers  were  contracted  and  paid  by  the  AVU  and  agreed  to 
waive  their  intellectual  propriety  rights  to  the  AVU.  All  content  strictly  adhered 
to  copyright  regulations  and  was  developed  as  open  education  resources,  with  the 
authors  signing  a Creative  Commons  Agreement  to  this  effect. 

All  73  modules  were  written  in  the  language  of  the  subject  matter  experts: 

English,  French  and  Portuguese.  Then  the  material  was  translated  into  the  two 
other  languages.  The  translated  versions  were  peer  reviewed  once  more. 

Content  Production 

All  final  textbooks  were  sent  to  the  Materials  Development  Coordinator  who  was 
responsible  for  the  production  of  the  textbooks.  This  individual  led  a team  of 
editors,  instructional  designers  and  graphic  designers. 

Ensuring  all  had  access  to  the  learning  materials  in  ten  participating  countries 
was  of  absolute  importance  to  the  AVU.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  the  developed 
learning  materials  were  produced  in  various  formats  and  made  available  through 
different  media  that  support  open  distance  and  eLearning.  The  materials  were 
uploaded  onto  Moodle,  an  open  source  learning  management  system  (LMS)  that 
supports  online  interactive  course  delivery.  The  main  LMS  was  located  at  the  AVU 
and  the  LMS  was  installed  on  mirror  servers  at  each  participating  institution. 
Thus,  the  materials  were  accessible  through  the  Intranet  of  these  institutions.  The 
materials  were  also  made  available  in  digital  video  discs  (DVDs)  and  in  printed 
booklets.  All  the  materials  were  posted  on  the  AVU  interactive  OER  portal  for 
access  beyond  the  12  participating  universities  and  ten  countries. 

The  delivery  options  outlined  above  were  implemented  to  ensure  that  the 
materials  were  accessible  to  all  learners  — those  with  continuous  access  to  the 
Internet  and  those  with  limited  or  no  access.  Participating  institutions  were 
encouraged  to  identify  strategies  for  efficient  and  effective  ways  of  ensuring 
student  access  to  learning  materials. 


95 


Quality  Assurance 

It  was  important  to  ensure  that  high  standards  were  maintained  in  the 
development,  implementation,  delivery  and  management  of  the  teacher 
education  programmes.  Quality  assurance  becomes  even  more  critical  because 
of  the  various  modes  of  delivery:  online,  blended  and  face-to-face.  It  was  also 
important  to  maintain  quality  in  order  to  ensure  the  credibility  of  the  programme 
in  all  ten  countries.  Thus,  internal  quality  assurance  was  built  into  the 
development  and  delivery  processes.  These  mechanisms  included: 

• the  meticulous  selection  of  participating  institutions; 

• the  curriculum  conceptualisation  and  policy  formulation  that  stipulated 
standards  to  be  employed; 

• selection  of  top  quality  experts  to  carry  out  curriculum  design  and 
development  as  well  as  production  of  the  materials; 

• the  training  of  trainers; 

• an  effective  student  support  system  and  effective  assessment  strategies  for 
multiple  delivery  modes; 

• the  development  of  institutional  readiness; 

• admission  strategies  that  defined  minimum  entry  points;  and 

• the  implementation  of  a pilot  to  test  the  materials,  programme  delivery,  and 
monitoring  and  evaluation  structure. 

A Teacher  Education  Advisory  Committee  was  established  to  act  as  the  governing 
body  for  the  teacher  education  programme  in  the  ten  participating  countries 
and  to  oversee  the  implementation  of  quality.  Its  membership  includes:  Pro 
Vice  Chancellors/Deputy  Vice  Chancellors/Deputy  Rectors  and  Deans  at  each 
participating  partner  institution,  and  the  programme  team  at  the  AVU.  The 
committee  reported  to  the  participating  university  and  AVU  top  management. 

The  committee  met  once  a year  to  carry  out  the  following  tasks: 

• co-ordinating  the  AVU  teacher  education  programme  at  the  partner 
institutions; 

• representating  interests  of  the  programme  within  the  governing  bodies  of 
partner  institutions  (e.g.,  Senate/Council); 

• drafting  legal  agreements  between  the  AVU  and  the  partner  institutions; 

• developing  a quality  assurance  mechanism; 

• developing  financial  models  for  the  programme,  including  those  that 
generate  revenue  and  will  sustain  the  programme; 

• managing  the  inter-institutional  development  and  implementation  of  the 
programme  in  ten  countries;  and 

• developing  and  implementing  a monitoring  and  reporting  system  for  the 
programme’s  activities  and  progress. 

A quality  assurance  framework  (AVU  2007)  was  developed  for  the  teacher 
education  programme  by  using  and  improving  the  existing  quality  standards 
from  seven  of  the  participating  institutions.  The  common  framework  was  adopted 
by  all  participating  institutions.  The  quality  assurance  framework  is  a descriptive 


96 


and  not  a prescriptive  document.  It  allows  institutions  to  adapt  or  adopt  it  to  suit 
the  realities  of  their  respective  countries.  The  document  outlines  the  following  six 
steps  through  which  the  framework  can  be  implemented: 

• establishment  of  a Quality  Assurance  Unit  at  the  AVU  for  the  teacher 
education  programmes,  to  co-ordinate  officials  responsible  for  quality 
assurance  in  each  participating  institution; 

• interpretation  of  the  quality  assurance  framework,  including  self- 
evaluation,  prioritisation  and  planning  by  individual  participating 
institutions; 

• conducting  of  a SWOT  (strengths,  weaknesses,  opportunities  and  threats) 
analysis; 

• review  of  the  SWOT  analysis  and  support  by  the  Quality  Assurance  Unit  at 
AVU; 

• continuous  monitoring;  and 

• sharing  of  best  practices  and  information  amongst  the  participating 
institutions. 

Another  important  quality  assurance  tool  was  the  legal  agreements  signed 
between  the  AVU  and  the  participating  universities.  Each  agreement  stipulates  the 
roles  and  responsibilities  of  each  party,  and  is  centred  on  a collaborative  approach 
in  order  to  achieve  their  respective  objectives.  It  established  the  legally  binding 
principles  that  regulated  the  development  and  delivery  of  each  teacher  education 
programme.  It  detailed  collaboration  in  the  two  following  areas: 

• the  development  of  a policy  and  curriculum  framework  that  would  guide 
the  design,  development,  delivery  and  accreditation  of  the  programme, 
together  with  a quality  assurance  framework  that  would  govern  all 
e-programme  in  the  participating  institutions;  and 

• the  design,  development  and  delivery  of  an  open  and  distance  eLearning 
teacher  education  programme  that  would  be  of  high  quality  and  benefit 
from  the  pool  of  expertise  available  from  other  participating  universities  in 
Africa  - To  achieve  this,  it  was  necessary  for  a partner  institution  to  acquire 
skills  that  will  build  and  enhance  its  capacity  to  design,  deliver  and  manage 
its  own  open,  distance  and  eLearning  programmes.  In  addition,  partner 
institutions  must  be  willing  to  establish  and  actively  participate  in  the 
teacher  education  consortium. 

The  12  participating  universities  and  the  AVU  decided  to  form  the  Teacher 
Education  Virtual  Consortium  which  will  ensure  sustainability  of  the  teacher 
education  programme  beyond  the  Multinational  Project.  The  goals  of  the 
consortium  are: 

• to  develop  and  promote  appropriate  open  and  distance  eLearning  (ODeL) 
programmes  for  teacher  education;  and 

• to  enhance  the  capacity  for  members  both  in  terms  of  quantity  and  quality, 
for  the  acquisition  of  necessary  expertise  in  open  and  distance  eLearning 
methodologies,  as  well  as  for  the  development  and  management  of  distance 
learning  programmes. 


97 


Accreditation 

All  12  participating  universities  have  adopted  the  programmes  through  their 
senates  and  are  accrediting  the  programmes  in  their  countries.  A learner  has  to 
enrol  in  one  of  the  universities  in  order  to  receive  credits. 

It  was  agreed  that  the  participating  institutions  should  commit  themselves  to 
exploring  and  determining  mechanisms  for  encouraging  and  implementing 
cross-institutional  recognition  of  credits  gained  by  graduates  of  the  teacher 
education  programmes.  These  mechanisms  must  take  into  account  national 
regulatory  requirements  of  each  country  so  that  each  partner  institution  can 
deliver,  accredit  and  award  certificates  for  the  various  programmes  derived  from 
the  teacher  education  programmes. 


Programme  Delivery 

As  part  of  the  delivery  process,  the  AVU  conducted  a pilot  delivery  (AVU  2010)  in 
four  of  the  participating  institutions.  The  pilot  indicated  that  the  ICT-integrated 
teacher  education  program  had  the  capacity  to  assist  learners  perform  better  in 
mathematics  and  sciences,  and  contribute  to  addressing  the  gender  divide  in 
performance  in  science.  Female  access  to  higher  education  was  enhanced  through 
eLearning,  as  this  circumvented  the  time  constraints  faced  by  females  with  other 
competing  personal  issues,  including  family  commitments.  The  approach  enabled 
them  to  learn  in  a flexible  manner  at  a time  that  is  convenient  to  them.  The  pilot 
also  demonstrated  the  innovative  use  of  ICTs  in  designing  and  developing  the 
programme,  as  well  as  the  benefits  that  the  learners  receive  from  the  flexible 
mode  of  delivery  and  increased  access.  Once  the  pilot  was  completed,  the  teacher 
education  program  was  launched  in  all  institutions  for  delivery  within  existing 
university  structures. 

Although  the  AVU  played  a central  role  in  the  development  of  the  learning 
materials  and  other  related  activities  (such  as  the  establishment  of  the  eLearning 
centres  and  hosting  of  the  content  on  its  eLearning  platform  and  OER  portal),  it  is 
the  participating  institutions  that  remain  responsible  for  delivering  and  awarding 
certifications  for  the  programme.  However,  the  AVU  entered  into  specific 
agreements  with  five  of  the  participating  universities  to  deliver  joint  certificate 
programmes  in  ICT  basic  skills  and  ICT  integration  in  math  and  sciences. 

Each  institution  used  the  developed  learning  materials  and  the  quality  assurance 
framework  agreed  on.  To  maximise  the  benefits  of  the  programmes,  the 
institutions  were  required  to  perform  the  following  tasks: 

• Sensitise  all  levels  of  the  institution  — councils,  senates,  faculty  boards,  staff 
and  student  community  — to  the  eLearning  programmes. 

• Select  modules  and  programmes  to  be  taken. 

• Examine  the  curricula  to  determine  “fitness”  for  purpose. 

• Provide  students  with  learning  materials  in  various  formats. 

• Select  students  to  enrol  in  the  various  programmes  derived  from  the  teacher 
education  modules. 

• Make  arrangements  for  effective  student  support,  including  pre-enrolment 
counselling,  access  to  library  resources  and  face-to-face  sessions.  If 


98 


necessary,  institutions  were  required  to  identify  study  centres  s and  select 
an  effective  LMS. 

• Articulate  an  effective  learner  assessment  strategy. 

• Engage  human  resources  from  the  relevant  university  departments  such  as 
the  registrar’s  office,  dean's  office,  and  departments  with  a central  dedicated 
team  comprising  a programme  co-ordinator,  course  leader,  subject  tutors/ 
lecturers,  eLearning  centres  manager  and  a national  co-ordinator  from  the 
Ministry  of  Education.  Therefore,  each  institution  ensured  that  all  relevant 
human  resources  were  available  and  motivated  to  deliver  services  efficiently 
and  effectively. 

• Monitor  and  evaluate  the  programme,  thereby  ensuring  clear 
communication  and  reporting  structures  with  all  the  aspects  of  the  delivery 
of  the  programme.  The  outcome  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities 
is  used  to  identify  and  address  challenges  and  to  provide  for  continuous 
improvement  of  the  programme. 

The  Role  of  OER  in  Designing,  Developing  and  Delivering  the 
Teacher  Education  Learning  Materials 

Since  2005,  the  AVU  has  had  an  OER  strategy.  The  strategy  was  configured  as  a 
conceptual  framework  and  architecture  — the  AVU  OER  Architecture  — through 
which  the  creation,  organisation,  dissemination  and  utilisation  of  OER  were 
expected  to  lead  to  the  development  of  a dynamic,  rational  and  comprehensive 
strategy  for  collaborative  partnerships  for  African  higher  education  and  training 
institutions. 

The  AVU  OER  strategy  recognised  the  importance  of  collaborative  partnerships 
in  advocating  and  raising  awareness  for  OER  in  the  African  higher  education 
sector.  By  involving  African  institutions  in  the  OER  evolutionary  process,  the 
AVU  envisaged  addressing  the  issues  pertaining  to  epistemological,  ideological, 
cultural  and  social  relevance  as  well  as  reducing  technological  challenges,  while 
enabling  the  institutions  to  participate  actively  so  that  they  drive  and  own  the 
process  in  terms  of  form,  content,  structure  and  orientation. 

Activities  related  to  OER  have  been  constantly  embedded  in  AVU  policies, 
objectives  and  activities.  The  AVU  participated  in  major  international  OER 
initiatives  such  as  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  OpenCourseWare 
(MIT-OCW)  and  the  World  Summit  of  Information  Society  in  2005.  The  AVU 
implemented  activities  on  behalf  of  the  Open  University  UK  initiative  called 
Teacher  Education  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  (TESSA).  As  well,  the  AVU  began 
implementing  an  OER  portal  project,  which  was  later  relocated  to  the  South 
African  Institute  for  Distance  Education  (SAIDE)  and  became  an  initiative  known 
as  OER  Africa  in  2008.  Throughout  all  of  these  activities,  the  AVU  has  developed 
solid  partnerships  with  OER  and  OCW  bodies  on  all  continents,  including  global 
players  such  as  MERLOT,  MIT,  the  OpenCourseWare  Consortium  and  UNESCO. 

Open  Educational  Practices  were  implemented  in  the  design,  development  and 
delivery  of  the  teacher  education  programme  developed  as  part  of  the  AVU 
Multinational  Project.  For  instance,  materials  developed  using  OER  and  the  219 
textbooks  produced  were  released  as  OER  under  the  Creative  Commons  licence. 


99 


The  effective  management,  review  and  sustainability  of  these  materials  required 
the  AVU  to  build  an  interactive  portal  that  would  support  its  strategy.  The  AVU 
started  developing  the  OER  repository  called  OER@AVU  in  2010.  The  main 
objective  of  this  repository  was  to  serve  as  a platform  for  the  219  textbooks,  as 
well  as  to  serve  as  a platform  for  educators  to  use,  modify  and  contribute  to  the 
AVU  collection,  thereby  making  their  educational  resources  available  to  others. 
The  educators  could  discuss  and  comment  on  the  OER  and  collaborate  in  the 
development  of  additional  OERs.  The  portal  was  also  expected  to  host  future  AVU 
collections  in  areas  such  as  business  studies,  computer  sciences,  and  agriculture 
and  environmental  studies. 

OER@AVU  was  launched  in  January  2011  and  publicised  using  various  media, 
including  traditional  media,  strategic  partners’  networks  and  social  media.  It 
exceeded  expectations,  attracting  visitors  from  187  countries  and  with  393,000 
textbooks  viewed  as  of  October  2011;  winning  an  Education-Portal.com  global 
award  as  Best  Emerging  OCW  initiative;  and  sharing  its  resources.  In  this  way,  the 
AVU  has  gained  global  recognition  of  its  Open  Educational  Practices  and  it  has 
increased  awareness  of  the  quality  resources  developed  in  Africa.  These  resources 
can  be  used  globally. 

The  developments  outlined  above  led  to  a review  of  the  AVU’s  OER  strategy.  The 
AVU  now  aims  to: 

• increase  access  to  quality  and  relevant  education  through  the  innovative 
use  of  ICTs; 

• develop  and  share  quality  OER  that  are  relevant  to  the  AVU  network; 

• create,  maintain  and  improve  an  African-based  OER  library; 

• facilitate  the  adoption  of  OER  practices  in  the  AVU  network;  and 

• build  effective  partnership  that  will  add  value  to  the  this  strategy. 

One  immediate  consequence  of  this  revised  strategy  is  the  use  of  OER  as  a means 
to  increase  access  to  education  in  Africa  through  the  delivery  of  accredited  and 
non-accredited  programmes.  The  target  of  the  Consortium  Program  Model  was  to 
enhance  existing  formal  accredited  programmes.  The  OER  were  instrumental  in 
developing  and  delivering  cross-border  educational  programmes  relevant  to  the 
local  context.  Unexpectedly,  the  AVU  discovered  that  its  OER  collection  was  being 
used  by  institutions  and  individuals  in  Africa  and  around  the  globe,  and  that 
world-leading  OER  repositories  were  adding  AVU  textbooks  to  their  collections. 
This  has  encouraged  the  AVU  to  consider  including  the  accreditation  of  self- 
learners in  the  Consortium  Program  Model. 

The  issue  of  accrediting  self-learning  through  OER  has  been  explored  through  the 
OER  university  concept  (Day  and  et  al.  2011).  In  the  case  of  the  AVU,  it  focused 
on  the  mandate  of  the  AVU  and  on  lessons  learned.  The  AVU  will  explore  having 
self-learners  sit  examinations  at  consortium  universities  that  have  granted  senate 
approval  for  their  programmes. 

It  is  anticipated  that  the  inclusion  of  the  accreditation  of  self-learners  will 
contribute  in  increasing  access  to  quality  education  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  where 
tertiary  education  enrolment  was  6 per  cent  in  2008  (UNESCO  2010).  In  addition, 
most  countries  in  this  region  are  unable  to  enrol  all  high  school  graduates  because 
of  barriers  such  as  limited  seat  capacity. 


100 


Challenges 

A few  challenges  were  experienced  with  the  development  and  delivery  of  the 
teacher  education  programme: 

• As  most  of  the  participating  institutions  did  not  have  an  ICT  policy  at  their 
institutions,  it  was  difficult  to  draft  suitable  ICT  and  curriculum  policies. 

• Several  challenges  were  encountered  during  the  curriculum  design  process. 
For  example,  there  was  a scarcity  of  ICT-integration  educational  experts 

in  Africa.  Although  it  was  generally  easy  to  agree  on  commonalities  in 
the  curricula  of  the  anglophone  universities,  differences  between  the 
anglophone  and  francophone  education  systems  resulted  in  a separate 
process  for  the  francophone  group  in  designing  their  curricula.  However, 
the  groups  later  merged  in  subsequent  processes. 

• Four  primary  challenges  were  encountered  with  the  content  development 
process.  First,  academics  who  were  to  undertake  the  writing  process  lacked 
ICT  skills.  Second,  there  was  a lack  of  ICT-integration  experts  within  Africa. 
Third,  the  translation  of  modules  required  expertise  both  in  the  subject 
matter  and  in  two  languages.  Firms  with  such  expertise  were  not  found  and 
it  was  challenging  to  source  academics  with  such  skills.  Fourth,  in  many 
cases,  the  authors  and  peer  reviewers  had  competing  responsibilities  in 
their  universities  that  would  not  allow  them  to  meet  most  deadlines.  Thus, 
considerable  delays  were  encountered  during  the  writing  process. 

• In  order  to  use  the  Moodle  LMS  effectively,  academics  who  were  accustomed 
to  face-to-face  delivery  methods  needed  extensive  training  in  eLearning. 

• Due  to  inflexible  internal  processes,  university  authorities  delayed  the 
approval  of  the  teacher  education  programmes. 

• Regulations  in  some  participating  countries  caused  delays  in  using 
equipment  at  eLearning  centres.  For  example,  delays  were  encountered 
during  the  granting  of  VSAT  licences  (for  satellite  Internet  services)  and  the 
passage  of  equipment  through  customs. 

• Employing  three  languages  during  the  development  and  delivery  of  OER 
was  challenging  and  costly.  However,  the  use  of  several  languages  meant 
that  a greater  number  of  people  could  use  the  material. 


Lessons  Learned  and  Recommendations 

This  final  section  provides  a summary  of  the  key  steps  in  the  formation  of  the 
Consortium  Program  Model  that  may  assist  others  who  want  to  set  up  or  review 
similar  initiatives.  However,  it  is  important  to  note  that  the  AVU  model  was 
implemented  in  a specific  context.  Therefore,  these  recommendations  may  need 
to  be  adapted  to  different  situations. 

The  key  steps  in  the  formation  of  the  Consortium  Program  Model  are  as  follows. 

• Harmonising  the  educational  policies  and  adoption  of  policy  guidelines 
to  inform  the  implementation  of  the  programme.  All  stakeholders  must  be 
involved  in  the  process. 


101 


• Forming  an  advisory  committee  to  oversee  the  implementation  of  the 
programme.  The  members  should  be  drawn  from  the  top  management  of 
the  universities  and  the  relevant  faculties. 

• Developing  a quality  assurance  framework. 

• Agreeing  on  an  accreditation  scheme. 

• Agreeing  to  assign  intellectual  property  rights  to  one  institution  or 
consortium  and  to  releasing  the  resources  under  a Creative  Commons 
copyright  licence. 

• Agreeing  on  a common  structure  for  the  curriculum  and  designing 

a curriculum  that  takes  into  account  the  needs  of  the  institution  and 
countries  involved. 

• Developing  the  content  in  a collaborative  manner. 

• Producing  material  in  several  file  formats  and  making  them  available  online 
and  in  compact  disc  (CD),  DVD  and  print  formats. 

• Securing  agreement  on  OER  practices  and  releasing  the  content  as  OERs. 

• Enabling  participating  universities  to  deliver  programmes  as  their  own 
programmes  or  jointly  with  the  AVU  and  other  partners. 

• Supporting  participating  universities  in  terms  of  ICT  and  eLearning 
infrastructure,  technical  advice,  and  capacity  enhancement  of  staff 
members. 

• Forming  a dedicated  Program  Coordination  Unit  which  is  responsible  for 
the  daily  implementation. 

The  Consortium  Program  Model  was  implemented  in  a specific  context  that 
overcame  political,  geographic,  cultural  and  linguistic  barriers.  As  the  model 
had  never  been  implemented  before  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa,  it  required  thorough 
planning,  monitoring  and  adjustments.  Below  are  some  of  the  lessons  learned 
during  the  development  and  implementation  of  the  model. 

• Managing  academics  from  different  countries  under  “one  roof”  can  be 
difficult,  thus  one  needs  to  be  well  prepared  to  engage  with  teams  from 
different  countries  (who  have  different  cultures  and  languages),  and 
consider  different  educational  policies  and  practices. 

• Collaboration  is  key  to  the  success  of  the  Consortium  Program  Model. 
Institutions  involved  in  such  development  projects  must  feel  that  they 
are  improving  their  own  programmes,  that  their  input  is  important,  that 
decisions  are  made  upon  agreed  principles,  and  that  the  outcome  will 
address  their  needs. 

• It  was  essential  to  harmonise  policies,  to  contextualise  the  curricula  and  to 
agree  on  a common  modular  structure  and  common  objectives  acceptable 
to  all  countries. 

• It  was  vital  to  keep  the  participants  motivated  and  committed. 

• Without  acceptable  quality  mechanisms,  the  process  would  not  have  been 
fully  implemented  or  the  expected  outputs  would  not  have  been  achieved. 

• Publishing  the  materials  as  OER  was  done  carefully,  progressively  and 
systematically.  The  focus  of  material  development  and  production  was 


102 


primarily  on  creating  high-quality  materials  relevant  to  the  context  of  each 
country,  and  to  have  participating  institutions  accredit  the  programme  as 
their  own  programmes. 

• The  purpose  of  using  OER  in  authoring  and  publishing  the  content  was  to 
improve  the  content  and  share  the  resources  with  other  African  countries 
and  universities. 

The  Consortium  Program  Model  is  scalable:  it  can  be  expanded  to  include 
additional  countries  and  universities,  as  well  as  other  subject  matter.  The  AVU  is 
preparing  a second  phase  of  the  Multinational  Project  that  will  strengthen  the 
gains  made  during  the  first  phase  of  the  project  and  expand  its  benefits  to  more 
countries.  The  objectives  of  the  second  phase  include  reviewing  and  improving 
the  AVU  OER  collection,  developing  and  delivering  a consortium  programme  in 
computer  science,  and  releasing  the  computer  science  content  as  OERs.  Thus,  the 
AVU  plans  to  develop  additional  high-quality  educational  resources  that  will  meet 
the  needs  of  educators  and  learners  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa,  but  also  those  in  the 
180-plus  countries  that  access  the  AVU  OER  repository. 


References 

African  Virtual  University  (2005).  Teacher  Education  Program:  Policy  Document. 
Unpublished  report. 

African  Virtual  University  (2007).  Teacher  Education  Program:  Quality  Assurance 
Framework.  Unpublished  report. 

African  Virtual  University  (2010).  Teacher  Education  Program:  Pilot  Study  Report. 
Unpublished  report. 

Day,  R.,  Ker,  P.  Mackintosh,  W.,  McGreal,  R.,  Stacey,  P.  and  Taylor,  J.  (eds.)  (2011). 
Open  Educational  Resource  University:  Towards  a Logic  Model  and  Plan  for 
Action.  Athabasca  University,  Open  Education  Resource  (OER)  Foundation 
and  University  of  Southern  Queensland. 

Diallo,  B.  (2005).  “Etude  du  processus  de  changement  pour  l’introduction  des  TIC 
dans  une  institution  d’enseignement  superieur:  Le  cas  de  l’Universite 
Cheikh  Anta  Diop  de  Dakar  au  Senegal.”  Doctoral  dissertation,  University 
of  Ottawa,  Canada.  AATNR10962.  ISBN:  9780494109625. 

Diallo,  B.,  Traore,  S.  and  Fernandes,  T.  (2010).  “AVU’s  Experience  in  Increasing 

Access  to  Quality  Higher  Education  Through  e-Learning  in  Sub-Saharan 
Africa.”  In  Multiple  Literacy  and  Science  Education:  ICTs  in  Formal  and 
Informal  Learning  Environments.  Rodriges,  S.  (ed.).  IGI  Global,  pp.  165-179. 

Germain-Rutherford,  A.  and  Diallo,  B.  (2006).  “Challenges  of  Training  Faculty  to 
Use  ICT  in  Universities:  A Training  Model  to  Integrate  ICT  In  Teaching 
and  Learning.”  In  La  Pratique  Enseignante  en  Mutation  a I'Universite.  Colet, 
N.G.  and  Romainville,  M.  (eds.).  De  Boeck  Universite:  Bruxelles,  pp.153- 
169. 

UNESCO  (2010).  “Trends  in  Tertiary  Education:  Sub-Saharan  Africa.”  UIS  Fact 
Sheet,  December  2010,  No.  10. 


103 


CHAPTER 


Sharing  of  Open  Science  Education 
Resources  and  Educational 
Practices  in  Europe 


Demetrios  G.  Sampson  and  Panagiotis  Zervas, 
University  of  Piraeus 

Sofoklis  Sotiriou, 

Ellinogermaniki  Agogi 


Introduction 

Science  Education  is  recognised  as  top  priority  for  European  policy  makers  (Rocard  et 
al.  2007).  During  the  last  few  years,  technological  advancements  (such  as  ubiquitous 
devices  and  wearable  computers)  and  innovative  applications  (such  as  data  analysis 
tools,  simulations,  augmented  reality  and  virtual  reality  interfaces)  have  allowed  the 
enhancement  and  enrichment  of  the  current  science  education  curricula  (Rocard 
et  al.  2007).  Furthermore,  a large  amount  of  digital  science  education  resources 
have  become  available  worldwide  through  science  museum  collections  and  digital 
repositories  such  as  Exploratorium  Museum  of  Science  (www.exploratorium.edu/), 
Science  Museum  of  Minnesota  (www.smm.org/)  and  NASA’s  Education  Materials 
Finder  (http://search.nasa.gov/search/edFilterSearch.  jsp?empty=true),  all  of  which 
aim  to  facilitate  sharing  and  re-use  of  digital  science  education  resources  among 
science  education  communities.  These  resources  have  the  potential  to  support 
technology-enhanced  science  education  by  enabling  science  teachers  to  improve 
their  day-to-day  science  teaching  (Rajashekar  et  al.  2007). 

On  the  other  hand,  it  has  been  recognised  that  science  teachers  could  improve  the 
quality  of  their  teaching  and  support  their  motivation  for  enriching  their  teaching 
practices  through  their  participation  in  communities  of  best  science  teaching 
practices,  which  facilitate  sharing  of  not  only  digital  educational  resources,  but  also 
educational  practices  that  represent  their  pedagogical  approach.  More  specifically, 
science  teachers  are  able  through  their  participation  in  communities  of  teaching 
practices  to:  (a)  search  and  download  best  science  teaching  practices  for  share 
and  re-use;  (b)  discuss  and  collaborate  about  best  science  teaching  practices;  and 
(c)  provide  their  feedback  about  the  actual  use  of  a science  teaching  practice  via 
ratings  and  comments  (Fu-ren  et  al.  2008).  As  a result,  there  is  an  increased  interest 
for  the  development  of  Web-based  repositories  that  facilitate  open  access  to  both 
educational  resources  and  educational  practices  (Paquette  et  al.  2008). 


105 


In  response  to  this  increased  interest  for  providing  open  access  to  both 
educational  resources  and  educational  practices  among  science  education 
teacher  communities,  a number  of  prominent  European  initiatives  have  been 
launched.  The  aim  of  this  chapter  is  to  discuss  issues  related  to  the  current  trends 
in  Web  infrastructures  that  can  support  open  access  to  educational  resources 
and  practices  (namely,  Learning  Objects  and  Learning  Designs  Repositories)  and 
then  to  present  three  case  studies  of  key  European  initiatives  in  this  field  (the 
OpenScienceResources  Repository,  the  COSMOS  Repository  and  the  PATHWAY 
Coordination  and  Support  Action). 


Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  Repositories 

OER  can  be  of  different  granularity  and  different  formats  (Lane  and  McAndrew 
2010).  According  to  Geser  (2007),  OER  should  have  three  core  features:  (a)  be 
available  for  open  and  free-of-charge  access  by  educational  institutions  and 
end  users  (such  as  teachers  and  students);  (b)  be  licensed  for  re-use,  free  from 
restrictions  to  modify,  combine  and  repurpose,  as  well  as  be  designed  for  easy 
re-use  in  open  content  standards  and  formats  (such  as  SCORM,  IEEE  LOM  and 
IMS  LD);  and  (c)  with  regard  to  software  tools,  have  a source  code  that  is  open  and 
licensed  for  re-use. 

Learning  Objects  (LOs)  are  a common  format  for  developing  and  sharing 
educational  content  and  they  have  been  defined  by  Wiley  (2002)  as:  “any  type 
of  digital  resource  that  can  be  reused  to  support  learning.”  More  specifically, 

LOs  include:  “video  and  audio  lectures  (podcasts),  references  and  readings, 
workbooks  and  textbooks,  multimedia  animations,  simulations,  experiments 
and  demonstrations,  as  well  as  teachers'  guides  and  lesson  plans”  (McGreal  2008). 
Thus,  one  can  claim  that  OER  are  a subset  of  LOs  that  are  openly  licensed  (Friesen 
2009;  Lane  and  McAndrew  2010). 

LOs  and  their  associated  metadata  are  typically  organised,  classified  and  stored  in 
Web-based  repositories,  which  are  referred  to  as  Learning  Object  Repositories  (LORs). 
McGreal  (2004)  has  defined  LORs  as  systems  that  “enable  users  to  locate,  evaluate 
and  manage  learning  objects  through  the  use  of  ‘metadata,’  namely,  descriptors 
or  tags  that  systematically  describe  many  aspects  of  a given  learning  object,  from 
its  technical  to  its  pedagogical  characteristics.”  Most  of  the  LORs  that  have  been 
developed  worldwide  adopt  the  IEEE  LOM  standard  (IEEE  LTSC  2005)  or  an 
application  profile  of  IEEE  LOM  (Smith  et  al.  2006)  for  describing  their  LOs,  aiming  to 
facilitate  search  and  retrieval  of  them  among  different  LORs  (McGreal  2008). 

Typical  examples  of  existing  LORs  are  summarised  in  Table  8.1.  These  LORs  have 
been  selected  by  considering  whether  they  are  specifically  targeting  science 
education  or  whether  they  include  a considerable  amount  of  science  education 
LOs.  For  the  purpose  of  our  work,  we  define  as  a science  education  LO  any  type 
of  digital  resource  that  can  be  re-used  to  support  science  education.  Note  that  all 
LORs  presented  in  Table  8.1: 

• adopt  the  IEEE  LOM  Standard  or  an  IEEE  LOM  Application  Profile  of  IEEE 
LOM  (Sampson  et  al.  [in  press])  for  describing  with  metadata  their  LOs;  and 

• include  LOs  that  may  target  either  teachers  or  students  and  this  can  be 
distinguished  during  searching  according  to  the  LOs  metadata  provided  by 
their  creators. 


106 


Table  8.1:  Typical  examples  of  existing  Learning  Object  Repositories  (LORs) 


CO 

3 o 

O — 1 _ 1 

sO 

0 

0 

<5 

0 

0 

0 3 

3 o CB 

CD 

r"; 

CD 

o 

o 

o 

o 

LTD 

LO 

o 

LTD 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

r}- 

lo 

o 

CD 

CD 

CM 

LTD 

o 

o 

CO  ^ 1— 

LD 

o 

o 

CO 

LO 

CO 

o 

o 

3 03 

E £ 

03  c/3 
O O 

3 —1 
.£  C 

CO 

M" 

co 

r^. 

03 

CO 

CM 

co 

12,491 

’■sf 

o 

O o 

C/3  -73 
H-  03 
O o 

03 

o" 

CM 

oo" 

CD 

o' 

CO 

OD 

■«Br 

CO 

O 

I''-" 

LO 

CD 

h-" 

CO 

co" 

s 

. 3 

O -a 
^ CD 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC- 

„ CC 

. CC 

o 

o 

o 

CC 

CC 

° 

S ° 

°°  o 

co  _j 

CD  1 

o 

_ o 

is 

O 

i 

03  g, 

S O) 

CM  _| 

S'  ° 

CO  I 

CD 

- Q3 

■^r  03 

£ E 
«*•"  -2 

cm"  -2 

LO  ^ 

1 

CO  — 1 

% =5 

O I 

S E 

O 

OO  CO 

03  J— 

CM 

CO  s— 

CM  jB 

co  2 

1 — CB 

_l 

CO  TO 
03 

00  E 

~ E 

CO  E 
CO 

E 

CO 

Z 

C/3 

CD 

03 

C/3 

3 

< 

03 

< 

■'O' 

CM 

Z 

Z 

LO 

Z 

co" 

-ZL 

CO 

z 

CM 

o 

cm" 

o 

T 

z 

C/3 

CO 

CO 

Q 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

O 

O 

O 

CD  — 1 

o 

O 

O 

o 

o 

E 

E 

E 

O 03 
o .3 

E 

E 

E 

E 

E 

E 

E 

E 

CD  -*—1 

E 

E 

E 

E 

E 

o 

o 

o 

.O  c 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

1 o 

C_D 

C_D 

o 

CD 

o 

03 

03 

03 

E S5 

03 

03 

03 

03 

03 

CD 

_> 

o =2 

.> 

_> 

.> 

_> 

> 

3 

"co 

"cO 

"cO 

to  E 

00 

"cB 

"cB 

"co 

to 

CD 

03 

03 

03 

= CD 

CD 

CD 

CD 

CD 

CD 

O 

O 

O 

O CL 
i_  03 

O 

O 

O 

o 

O 

CD 

cd 

CD 

CD  TO 

CD 

03 

CD 

<D 

CD 

to 

TO 

TO 

E 1/5 

TO 

TO 

TO 

TO 

TO 

3 

3 

3 

==  CO 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

— * CD 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

CD  ^ 
03  CC 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

CD 

03 

CD 

iC  03 

CD 

03 

03 

03 

03 

CL 

CL 

CL 

LL.  Q_ 

CL 

CL 

CL 

CL 

CL 

o 

O 

o 

O 

o 

O 

o 

O 

O 

CD 

"oT 

"oT 

S 

■qT 

03 

Q. 

CL 

Q. 

CL 

CB 

CB 

o 

o 

CB 

CB 

CB 

O 

O 

3 

C/D 

3 

c 

C 

03 

o 

3 

3 

=3 

o 

o 

o 

3 

3 

LU 

LU 

LU 

LU 

O 

"cB 

"cB 

"cO 

"co 

"co 

3 

"cB 

"CB 

o 

3 

3 

3 

"cB 

"CB 

3 

O 

03 

3 

O 

3 

O 

o 

03 

CD 

3 

O 

3 

O 

03 

3 

03 

03 

00 

_3 

_3 

_3 

O) 

’O) 

03 

03 

03 

Z 

CD 

03 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

CC 

>< 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

CB 

_3 

CB 

.3 

O 

O 

CB 

.3 

CB 

_3 

CB 

_C 

O 

o 

CB 

"cO 

to 

"cB 

to 

E 

o 

"o. 

s 

o 

3 

o 

3 

"o. 

s 

"o. 

O 

3 

o 

3 

"O 

"o 

o 

TO 

TO 

‘o 

o 

"o 

TO 

TO 

CO 

CO 

03 

03 

CO 

CO 

CO 

03 

03 

o 

TO 

TO 

03 

03 

TO 

TO 

TO 

03 

03 

03 

CO 

CO 

O 

CO 

CO 

o 

C3 

O 

CO 

CO 

O 

CO 

CO 

o 

CO 

CO 

O 

O 

O 

S' 

3 

3 

03 

3 

CD 

3 

CD 

3 

03 

CO 

‘o 

‘o 

‘o 

‘o 

O 

o 

CO 

C/D 

o 

o 

O 

CO 

CO 

o 

o 

03 

CO 

3 

o3  3 

CO 

3 

CO 

CO 

3 

03  E 

"cb 

o 

o 

o .2 

2 CB 

o ■=  -2 

o to 

o 

o 

i_  O 
03  33 
_3  CB 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o -2 
2 to 

o -=  .2 

o .E5  to 

03 

•f=  o 

f=  -3  o 

CD 

03  O 

CD 

03 

f=  o 

-E  -3  o 

"cS 

C3 

CO 

O -3 

CO  -o 

E -o 

CO 

= -g 

CO 

CO 

O -3 

co  -o 

E -o 

< 

CD 

CB  « 

< 

CD 

< 

< 

CD 

CB  « 

3 

■o 

LLi 

CO 

03 

z 

03 

3 

CO 

2 CO 

CC 

E 

LU 

CO 

1— 

3 

.1  s 

LU 

Z 

o 

CC 

o 

E 

o 

o 

3 

CC 

o 

o 

< 

CC 

LU 

CC 

_l 

CO 

o 

CO 

CC 

LU 

E 

o 

o 

"x 

03 

3 

3 

c § 

03  03 

@ 

CO 

< 

—I 

< 

o 

CC 

O 

CL  CC 

_l 

LU 

o 

o 

1— 

o 

< 

107 


a Data  retrieved  on  10  April  2012.  c http://lreforschools.eun.org/  e http://amser.org/  g www.oercommons.org/  i www.osrportal.eu/ 

b www.ariadne-eu.org/  d www.cosmosportal.eu/  f www.merlot.org/  h http://cnx.org  j www.learningwithatlas-portal.eu/ 


As  Table  8.1  shows,  a considerable  number  of  science  education  LOs  are  currently 
available  in  existing  LORs;  and  the  COSMOS  Repository  is  currently  the  largest 
existing  science  education  LO  repository  in  the  world.  Moreover,  most  of  these 
science  education  LOs  are  OER  since  they  are  openly  licensed  using  Creative 
Commons  (http://creativecommons.org/),  which  provide  simple,  standardised 
alternatives  to  the  “all  rights  reserved”  paradigm  of  traditional  copyright. 

This  provides  us  with  evidence  that  LOR  development  for  supporting  the 
sharing  and  re-use  of  openly  licensed  science  education  LOs  is  an  emerging 
trend.  Nevertheless,  in  reality  most  LORs  include  limited  explicit  information 
about  their  hosted  LOs’  learning  and  educational  context  of  use  — that  is,  the 
pedagogical  approach  adopted,  the  subject  domain,  the  intended  learning 
outcomes  and  the  environment  within  which  the  LOs  are  used  (Bailey  et  al.  2006; 
Conole  2007). 

It  has  been  identified  that  teachers  would  benefit  from:  (a)  having  access  to  best 
teaching  practices,  (b)  sharing  their  teaching  practices  with  other  teachers  and 
(c)  reflecting  on  others’  teaching  practices  (Griffiths  and  Blat  2005;  Conole  2008; 
Galley  et  al.  2010).  This  has  the  potential  to  provide  learning  and  educational 
contextual  knowledge  of  LOs  available  in  LORs.  For  this  purpose,  there  are 
efforts  for  designing  and  developing  Web-based  repositories  of  educational 
practices. 


Learning  Design  Repositories 

Learning  Design  (LD)  is  defined  by  Koper  and  Olivier  (2004)  as:  “the 
description  of  the  teaching-learning  process,  which  follows  a specific 
pedagogical  model  or  practice  that  takes  place  in  a unit  of  learning  (e.g.,  a 
course,  a learning  activity  or  any  other  designed  learning  event)  towards 
addressing  specific  learning  objectives,  for  a specific  target  group  in  a 
specific  context  or  subject  domain.”  As  this  definition  suggests,  LD  includes 
information  that  can  contribute  to  the  definition  of  learning  and  educational 
context  of  use  for  the  LOs. 

Similar  to  LOs,  LDs  can  be  organised,  classified  and  stored  in  Web-based 
repositories,  which  are  referred  to  as  Learning  Design  Repositories  (LDRs).  LDRs 
are  built  so  as  to  support  storage,  discovery,  retrieval,  use,  re-use  and  sharing  of 
LDs  and  LD  Templates  among  educational  communities  (Griffiths  et  al.  2005; 
Wilson  2005).  An  LD  Template  is  an  LD  without  specific  educational  content 
(Griffiths  et  al.  2005).  Figures  8.1  and  8.2  present  an  example  of  an  LD  and  a 
corresponding  LD  Template. 

One  way  of  providing  a standard  notation  language  for  the  description  of  LDs 
and  LD  Templates  is  the  IMS  Learning  Design  Specification  (IMS  Global  Learning 
Consortium  2003)  and  many  of  the  existing  LDRs  adopt  this  specification  for 
describing  their  LDs  and  LD  Templates.  Table  8.2  summarises  key  characteristics 
of  the  main  existing  LDRs. 


108 


Figure  8.1:  A Learning  Design  (LD)  example  from  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository. 


The  electromagnetic  spectrum 

Please  click  on  a phase  to  view  related  activities: 


Introduction  | Pre-visit  Visit  Post  visit 

Pre-visit 

■ Provoke  curiosity 

[>**fin«  quest  ions  fiom  current  kno»vledi;»' 

Propose  preliminary  explanations  or 
hypotheses 

Plan  s re  I ronduct  simple  investigation 


Pre-visit  > Question  Eliciting  Activities 


Provoke  curiosity 


What  do  space  observatories  have  in  common  with  the  movie  ' Hollow  man"  and  an  engineer? 

In  all  cases  there  is  use  of  certain  devices  which  visualize  images  our  eyes  can't  see: 

* Space  observatories  use  cameras  to  detect  radiation  from  outer  space  in  non-visual 
wavelengths. 

^The  teacher  should  inform  the  students  that  objects  in  all  these  impressive  images  from 
outer  space  wouldn't  be  visible  to  the  naked  eye  and  that  they  are  properly  modified  in 
order  for  us  to  be  able  to  see  these  objects. 

* The  actors  in  tha  movie  use  thermal  cameras  in  order  to  be  able  to  see  the  hollow  man  and  the 
invisible  animals. 

* Engineers  use  thermal  cameras  to  detect  heat  or  gas  loses  in  houses  and  other  installations. 


Supporting  Material 


Figure  8.2:  A Learning  Design  (LD)  Template  example  from  the  COSMOS  Repository. 


109 


Table  8.2:  Overview  of  the  main  existing  Learning  Design  Repositories  (LDRs' 


■s  1/5 
-3  ^ 


£ * 

Q -o 


s 


w 

O § 

a3  E 

c E 

13  o 
c 

CD 

Q. 

O 


1 to 
« § 
o "S 

o 

a> 


■°  E 


\ 


E « I 


i CD  C 

9-  ° 

! °.  O) 
! CD  C= 

1 £ E 


\ 


e «« : 


^ l— 

0 CD  c: 

»-  S-  ° 

ai  ° CD 

^ CD  C 

1 0-0 

CD  CD  CD 
CD  O q. 


D)  CO 
O JD 


5 3 

s s 

5 5 


£ 


CD  CO 

5 E 


110 


As  we  can  notice  from  Table  8.2,  four  out  of  seven  existing  LDRs  adopt  the  IMS 
LD  Specification  for  modelling  their  LDs  or  their  LD  Templates,  whereas  the  other 
three  use  their  own  internal  format.  This  means  that  interoperability  of  LDs/ 

LD  Templates  among  different  existing  LDRs  is  partly  facilitated.  Moreover,  we 
should  note  that  four  out  of  seven  existing  LDRs  include  LDs,  which  are  openly 
licensed  following  Creative  Commons.  This  is  an  important  indication  that  LDs 
are  aligned  with  the  OER  openness  feature.  Next,  we  discuss  in  more  detail  the 
OpenScienceResources  Repository  and  COSMOS  Repository  as  key  representatives 
of  the  current  state-of-the-art  in  Web  infrastructures  that  can  support  open  access 
to  educational  resources  and  practices. 


The  Case  of  OpenScienceResources  Repository 

The  OpenScienceResources  Repository  was  developed  in  the  framework  of  an  EU- 
funded  project,  referred  to  as  “OpenScienceResources:  Towards  the  Development 
of  a Shared  Digital  Repository  for  Formal  and  Informal  Science  Education” 
(www.openscienceresources.eu/).  It  provides  access  to  openly  licensed  (through 
Creative  Commons)  science  education  LOs  and  LDs,  which  can  be  used  by  science 
teachers  connecting  formal  science  education  in  schools  with  informal  science 
education  activities  taking  place  in  European  science  centres  and  museums.  The 
OpenScienceResources  Repository  has  2,312  registered  users  and  it  includes  3,031  LOs 
and  158  LDs  (data  retrieved  on  10  April  2012).  It  follows  the  institutional  sustainability 
model,  meaning  an  institution  (in  our  case  a partner  of  the  specific  EU-funded  project) 
undertakes  the  responsibility  to  sustain  the  OER  initiative  (Downes  2007). 

The  main  functions  of  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository  include: 

• Store  LOs:  The  users  of  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository  are  able  to  store 
in  the  repository  their  LOs  along  with  their  metadata  descriptions  following  an 
LOM  Science  Education  Application  Profile  (Sampson  et  al.  2011c). 

• Design  and  store  LDs:  The  users  of  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository 
are  able  to  design  a new  LD  according  to  a pre-defined  LD  Template,  which 
follows  an  inquiry-based,  pedagogical  model  (the  step-by-step  wizard  is 
shown  in  Figure  8.3).  In  the  final  step  of  this  wizard,  the  user  is  able  to  store 
his  or  her  LD  along  with  its  IEEE  LOM  compatible  metadata  (Figure  8.4).  The 
LDs  that  are  developed  and  stored  in  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository 
are  not  modelled  with  the  IMS  LD  Specification. 


Figure  8.3:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  wizard  for  designing  a new  Learning  Design  (LD). 


Contextualized  Resource  Based  Learning 

3 OpenScienceResources 


3_ 


The  five  steps  of  the 
wizard  for  desging  an 
LD 


Save  as  Draft 


Z3 


IT 


Guidance  lor  preparation 

a/v  3 V ?_*•—»  -SI  4* 


111 


Figure  8.4:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  Learning  Design  (LD)  storage  mechanism. 


Preview 


Preview  Ime9« 


Submit  the  LD  metadata 
file  conformant  with 
IEEE  LOM  Standard 


Save  m Oran 


• Search  for  LOs  and  LDs:  The  users  have  the  capability  of  searching, 
browsing  and  retrieving  LOs  and  LDs  by  using  terms  that  are  matched  with 
metadata  descriptions  of  LOs  and  LDs.  Figure  8.5  presents  the  process  of 
searching  LOs  in  the  repository. 

• Preview  LOs  and  LDs:  The  users  are  able  to  preview  LOs  and  LDs.  Figure  8.6 
presents  the  process  of  previewing  the  structure  and  the  details  of  a selected 
LD. 

Figure  8.5:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  searching  mechanism. 


OpenScienceResources 


Developing  Communities  of  Practice 

•9 


Presentation  of  the 
1 sea,< ihing,,sl" 15 

Search  for  Educational  Content 

Search  Criteria 


Search  LOs  or  LDs 
based  on  their 
metadata 
descriptions 

^IZJl'r^SS 


112 


Figure  8.6:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  Learning  Design  (LD)  preview  mechanism. 


OpenScienceResources 

Developing  Communities  of  Practice 

lrj 

J / | | Structure  of  the  LD 

Pi.thv.Ay  AiilhnniH)  1 (Mil  Viewer 

Pathway  Authoring  Tool  IS  OSR  Portal  J 

The  electromagnetic  spectrum  ' 


Details  of  the  LD 


• Rate/comment  on  LOs  and  LDs:  The  users  are  able  to  provide  their 
ratings  and  comments  for  an  LO  or  LD  stored  in  the  OpenScienceResources 
Repository.  These  ratings  and  comments  could  be  related  with  the 
impressions  of  the  users  who  have  used  a specific  LO  or  LD.  Figure  8.7 
presents  the  process  of  rating  and  commenting  a selected  LD. 

• View  and  download  LOs  and  LDs  metadata:  The  users  are  able  to  view  in 
detail  the  metadata  descriptions  of  LOs  and  LDs,  so  as  to  be  able  to  decide 
whether  or  not  to  use  a specific  LO  or  LD.  Moreover,  the  users  are  able  to 
download  the  LO  or  LD  metadata  in  XML  format  conforming  with  the  IEEE 
LOM  Standard.  Figure  8.8  presents  the  educational  metadata  of  a selected 
LD  and  the  functions  that  can  be  performed. 

Figure  8.7:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  ratings  and  comments  mechanism. 


113 


Figure  8.8:  View  the  educational  metadata  of  a selected  Learning  Learning  Object  (LO)  or 
Learning  Design  (LD). 


S sent  niuwon*  tf  optiQue  [wetet*] 

♦ 


• Add  social  tagging:  The  users  are  able  to  characterise  LOs  or  LDs  by  adding 
tags  to  them.  The  OpenScienceResources  Repository  also  provides  the 
capability  to  its  users  to  search  and  retrieve  LOs  or  LDs  based  on  the  tags 
added  by  other  users  (Sampson  et  al.  2011a).  Figure  8.9  presents  the  process 
of  adding  tags  to  a selected  LD  and  Figure  8.10  presents  the  tag  cloud  that  is 
constructed  based  on  users’  tags. 

Figure  8.9:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  social  tagging  mechanism. 


Figure  8.10:  OpenScienceResources  Repository  tag  cloud. 


114 


The  Case  of  COSMOS  Repository 

The  COSMOS  Repository  was  developed  in  the  framework  of  an  EU-funded 
project,  referred  to  as  “COSMOS:  An  Advanced  Scientific  Repository  for  Science 
Teaching  and  Learning”  (www.cosmos-project.eu/).  It  provides  access  to  openly 
licensed  (through  Creative  Commons)  science  education  LOs  and  LDs  for  science 
teachers  in  school  and  higher  education.  The  COSMOS  Repository  has  2,519 
registered  users  and  includes  230,128  LOs  and  450  LDs  (data  retrieved  on  10  April 
2012).  Similar  to  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository,  the  COSMOS  Repository 
also  follows  the  institutional  sustainability  model.  The  main  functions  of  the 
COSMOS  LD  Repository  can  be  summarised  as  follows: 

• Store  LOs,  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates:  The  users  of  the  COSMOS  LD 
Repository  are  able  to  store  in  the  repository  their  LOs,  LDs  and  LD  Templates 
along  with  their  metadata  descriptions  following  a LOM  Science  Education 
Application  Profile  (Sampson  and  Zervas  2008).  The  LDs  that  are  stored  in 
the  COSMOS  Repository  are  modelled  based  on  the  IMS  LD  Specification  and 
are  developed  by  using  a customised  version  of  the  ASK  Learning  Designer 
Toolkit  (Sampson  et  al.  2005),  which  incorporates  five  LD  Templates  that  are 
based  on  different  pedagogical  models  (Sampson  et  al.  2011b). 

• Search  for  LOs,  LDs  and  LD  Templates:  The  users  have  the  capability 
of  searching,  browsing  and  retrieving  LOs,  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates  by 
using  terms  that  are  matched  with  metadata  descriptions  of  LDs  and  LD 
Templates.  Figures  8.11  and  8.12  present  the  process  of  searching  LDs  in  the 
COSMOS  Repository. 


Figure  8.1 1 : COSMOS  Repository  searching  mechanism. 


Search  for  Learning  Activities 


COSMOS  Learning  Activities 

Tin  section  cilery  access  to  isamng  Activities  developed  to  facitate  nnovatm  i 
that  exploe  tha  naira  enhanced  opportune**  tor  ««i  and  were coon  offered  by  the  Oat 
technologes.  Tha  ratio  COSMOS  Learranp  Actuates  demonstrators)  were  developed 
teachers  «ho  are  involved  n the  protect.  loSoreng  tpeoDc  ia«Mg  evnrova,  The  let 

Activities  are  stored  m pdf  and  zip  format.  The  Acrobat  Header  (avMaMe and  the  R 

I earning  Activity  viewer  (avalaple  tn  the  tMt'B—ie— h can  be  uaed  to  access  the  pa 
of  the  structured  educational  resources  of  the  scenario. 


Search  the  Repository 
!•— ^>1 

Search  for  Learning  Activities 

— * -m 


rhe  W mecrurhonal  Medal 

B 


Top  Rated  Learning  Activities 


• Avoiawwot  rex  eatTm  roc  ItVr«K 


Search  LDs  based 
on  their  metadata 
descriptions 


SsmmaltMUUcrVXr  - iftexjaec-H  'The  leameig 


Most  Recent  Learning  Activities 


115 


Figure  8.12:  Learning  Designs  (LDs)  search  results  based  on  selected  searching  criteria. 


Search  for  Learning  Activities 


Number  of 
searching  results 


Andromeda  (M31 ) galaxy 


. (SengMi 
4-Fmh 


• Download  LOs,  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates:  The  users  are  able  to  download 
LOs,  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates  (in  IMS  LD  compatible  format),  as  well  as 
their  metadata  in  XML  format  conforming  with  the  IEEE  LOM  Standard. 
Figure  8.13  presents  the  process  of  downloading  a selected  LD  and  its  IEEE 
LOM  compatible  XML  metadata  file. 

• Rate/comment  on  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates:  The  users  are  able  to  provide 
their  ratings  and  comments  for  the  LOs,  the  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates 
stored  in  the  COSMOS  Repository.  These  ratings  and  comments  could  be 
related  to  the  impressions  of  the  users  who  have  used  a specific  LO,  LD  or  LD 
Template.  Figure  8.13  presents  the  process  of  providing  ratings  to  a selected 
LD. 

• View  LOs,  LDs  and/or  LD  Templates  metadata:  The  users  have  the 
capability  of  viewing  in  detail  the  metadata  descriptions  of  LOs,  LDs  and / 
or  LD  Templates,  so  as  to  be  able  to  decide  whether  or  not  to  use  a specific 
LO,  LD  or  LD  Template.  Figure  8.13  presents  the  educational  metadata  of  a 
selected  LD  and  the  functionalities  that  can  be  performed. 


Figure  8.1 3:  View  the  full  educational  metadata  record  of  a selected  Learning  Design  (LD). 


116 


The  Case  of  the  PATHWAY  Coordination  and  Support  Action 

The  PATHWAY  Project  (www.pathway-project.eu)  is  an  EU-funded  co-ordination 
and  support  action  focusing  on  the  effective  widespread  use  of  inquiry-  and 
problem-based  science  teaching  practices  in  primary  and  secondary  schools  in 
Europe  and  beyond.  In  this  way,  the  project  aims  to  facilitate  the  development  of 
communities  of  practitioners  of  inquiry  that  will  enable  science  teachers  to  learn 
from  each  other. 

Within  this  context,  sharing,  using  and  repurposing  openly  licensed  science 
education  LOs  and  best  teaching  practices  in  the  form  of  LDs  through  Web- 
based  repositories  are  key  features  for  the  success  of  the  project.  For  this  purpose, 
the  PATHWAY  Project  is  making  use  of  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository 
and  the  COSMOS  Repository  for  engaging  European  science  teachers  in  the 
process  of  sharing,  using  and  re-using  science  education  LOs  and  LDs  from 
these  repositories.  Figure  8.14  presents  the  overall  approach  of  the  PATHWAY 
Coordination  and  Support  Action. 


Figure  8.1 4:  The  Approach  of  the  PATHWAY  Coordination  and  Support  Action. 


Science 

Teachers 


PATHWAY  Communities  Support 
Environment 


As  Figure  8.14  shows,  science  teachers  across  Europe  are  becoming  members 
of  the  PATHWAY  Communities  Support  Environment  through  a number  of 
participatory  engagement  workshops  that  are  organised  in  the  framework  of  the 
PATHWAY  Project.  Afterwards,  science  teachers  as  members  of  the  PATHWAY 
community  are  able  to:  (a)  communicate  by  using  a variety  of  communication 
and  social  networking  tools  that  are  integrated  into  the  PATHWAY  Communities 
Support  Environment;  and  (b)  share  their  science  education  LOs  and  their 
teaching  practices  in  the  form  of  LDs  through  the  COSMOS  Repository,  which 
targets  formal  science  education,  and  the  OpenScienceResources  Repository, 
which  targets  informal  science  education. 


117 


Conclusion 


In  the  field  of  technology-enhanced  science  education,  the  process  of  providing 
open  access  to  science  education  resources  in  the  form  of  LOs  and  LDs  is 
becoming  an  emerging  trend.  For  this  purpose,  both  LOs  and  LDs  are  organised, 
classified  and  stored  in  Web-based  repositories  (namely,  LORs  and  LDRs)  enabling 
their  open  access  among  science  education  communities.  In  this  chapter,  we 
discussed  issues  related  with  the  current  trends  in  Web  infrastructures  that  can 
support  open  access  to  educational  resources  and  practices.  We  then  described 
two  Web-based  repositories  that  facilitate  open  access  to  both  science  education 
LOs  and  LDs,  and  co-ordination  and  support  action  that  develops  a community  of 
science  teachers  that  use  these  repositories. 

At  this  stage,  it  is  useful  to  summarise  data  collected  from  the  use  of  the 
aforementioned  initiatives: 

• An  online  community  of  more  than  3,000  science  teachers  from  20 
European  Countries  has  been  created  around  the  OpenScienceResources 
and  COSMOS  repositories. 

• The  members  of  this  community  have  made  more  than  200,000  visits  and 
downloaded  more  than  35,000  LOs  and  LDs  from  both  repositories. 

• More  than  90  per  cent  of  the  total  LOs  and  LDs  included  in  these 
repositories  have  received  comments,  ratings  and  tags  related  to  the  actual 
use  of  these  LOs  and  LDs  by  the  teachers  of  the  aforementioned  community. 

These  data  provided  us  indications  that  deployment  of  Web-based  repositories 
that  facilitate  open  access  to  both  LOs  and  LDs,  which  also  address  specific 
subject  domains  (in  our  case  Science  Education),  can  make  those  repositories 
more  attractive  for  use  by  teachers  compared  with  broader  LORs  and  LDRs,  where 
teachers  might  face  difficulties  in  the  process  of  finding  and  using  appropriate  LOs 
and  LDs  for  the  subject  domain  of  their  interest. 

Finally,  the  three  initiatives  presented  in  this  chapter  offer  the  infrastructure  that 
will  be  integrated  under  a new  European  initiative  referred  to  as  “Open  Discovery 
Space:  A Socially  Powered  and  Multilingual  Open  Learning  Infrastructure  to 
Boost  the  Adoption  of  eLearning  Resources.”  The  Open  Discovery  Space  (www. 
opendiscoveryspace.eu/)  aims  to  include  more  than  1.5  million  LOs  and  LDs  by 
aggregating  open  licensed  LOs  and  LDs  from  a federated  network  of  75  existing 
LORs  and  LDRs  in  Europe.  The  main  outcome  of  the  Open  Discovery  Space  project 
will  be  a community-oriented  social  platform  where  teachers,  students  and 
parents  from  all  around  Europe  will  be  able  to  search  and  retrieve  LOs  and  LDs  on 
their  topics  of  interest.  It  is  expected  that  at  the  end  of  the  Open  Discovery  Space 
project,  the  Open  Discovery  Space  portal  will  be  the  biggest  federated  network  of 
existing  LORs  and  LDRs  in  the  world. 


Acknowledgements 

The  work  presented  in  this  paper  has  been  supported  by:  (a)  the  COSMOS  Project 
that  has  been  funded  by  the  European  Commission’s  eContentPlus  programme 
(Contract  No:  ECP-  2008  - EDU-  428045);  (b)  the  OpenScienceResources  Project 
that  is  funded  by  the  European  Commission's  eContentPlus  programme  (Contract 
No:  ECP-  2008  - EDU-  428045);  (c)  the  PATHWAY  Project  that  is  funded  by  the 


118 


European  Commission’s  7th  Framework  Program,  “Supporting  and  coordinating 
actions  on  innovative  methods  in  science  education:  Teacher  training  on  inquiry 
based  teaching  methods  on  a large  scale  in  Europe”  (Contract  No:  266624);  and  (d) 
the  Open  Discovery  Space  that  is  funded  by  the  European  Commission's  CIP-ICT 
Policy  Support  Program  (Project  Number:  297229). 


References 

Bailey,  C.,  Zalfan,  M.T.,  Davis,  H.C.,  Fill,  K.  and  Conole,  G.  (2006).  “Panning  for 

Gold:  Designing  Pedagogically  Inspired  Learning  Nuggets.”  [special  issue] 
Journal  of  Educational  Technology  & Society  9(1):  113-122. 

Conole,  G.  (2007).  “Describing  Learning  Activities:  Tools  and  Resources  to  Guide 
Practice.”  In  Rethinking  Pedagogy  for  a Digital  Age.  Beetham,  H.  and  Sharpe, 
R.  (eds.).  RoutledgeFalmer:  Oxford,  pp.  81-91. 

Conole,  G.  (2008).  “Capturing  Practice:  The  Role  of  Mediating  Artefacts  in 

Learning  Design.”  In  Handbook  of  Research  on  Learning  Design  and  Learning 
Objects:  Issues,  Applications,  and  Technologies.  Lockyer,  L.,  Bennett,  S., 
Agostinho,  S.  and  Harper,  B.  (eds.).  IGI  Publishing:  Hershey,  PA,  pp. 
187-207. 

Downes,  S.  (2007).  “Models  for  Sustainable  Open  Educational  Resources.” 

Interdisciplinary  Journal  of  Knowledge  and  Learning  Objects,  3.  Retrieved  10 
April  2012  from:  www.ijklo.org/Volume3/IJKLOv3p029-044Downes.pdf 

Friesen,  N.  (2009).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  New  Possibilities  for  Change 
and  Sustainability.”  International  Review  of  Research  in  Open  and  Distance 
Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  10  April  2012  from:  www.irrodl.org/index.php/ 
irrodl/article/view/664/1388 

Fu-ren,  L.,  Sheng-cheng,  L.  and  Tzu-ping,  H.  (2008).  “Knowledge  Sharing  and 
Creation  in  a Teachers'  Professional  Virtual  Community.”  Computers  & 
Education  50(3):  742-756. 

Galley,  R.,  Conole,  G.,  Dalziel,  J.  and  Ghiglione,  F.  (2010).  Cloudworks  as  a 
“ Pedagogical  Wrapper”  for  LAMS  Sequences:  Supporting  the  Sharing  of 
Ideas  Across  Professional  Boundaries  and  Facilitating  Collaborative  Design, 
Evaluation  and  Critical  Reflection.  Proceedings  of  the  European  LAMS  and 
Learning  Design  Conference,  15-16  July,  Oxford,  UK. 

Geser,  G.  (ed.)  (2007).  “Open  Educational  Practices  and  Resources,  OLCOS 

Roadmap  2012.”  Salzburg  Research  Edumedia  Research  Group:  Salzburg, 
Austria.  Retrieved  10  April  2012  from:  www.olcos.org/cms/upload/docs/ 
olcos_roadmap.pdf 

Griffiths,  D.  and  Blat,  J.  (2005).  “The  Role  of  Teachers  in  Editing  and  Authoring 
Units  of  Learning  Using  IMS  Learning  Design.”  Educational  Cybernetics: 
Journal  Articles  2(4):  243-251. 

Griffiths,  D.,  Blat,  J.,  Garcia,  R.,  Voghten,  H.  and  Kwong,  K.L.  (2005).  “Learning 
Design  Tools.”  In  Learning  Design:  A Handbook  on  Modeling  and  Delivering 
Networked  Education  and  Training.  Koper,  R.  and  Tattersall,  C.  (eds.). 
Springer-Verlag:  Heidelberg,  pp.  109-136. 


119 


IEEE  (Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers)  Learning  Technology 

Standards  Committee  (LTSC)  (2005).  “Final  Standard  for  Learning  Object 
Metadata.”  Retrieved  10  April  2012  from:  http://ltsc.ieee.org/wgl2/frles/ 
IEEE_1484_12_03_d8_submitted.pdf 

IMS  Global  Learning  Consortium  (GLC)  (2003).  “IMS  Learning  Design 

Specification  Version  1.0.”  Retrieved  10  April  10  from:  www.imsglobal. 
org/learningdesign/ 

Koper,  R.  and  Olivier,  B.  (2004).  “Representing  the  Learning  Design  of  Units  of 
Learning.”  Educational  Technology  & Society  7(3):  97-111. 

Lane,  A.  and  McAndrew,  P.  (2010).  “Are  Open  Educational  Resources  Systematic 
or  Systemic  Change  Agents  for  Teaching  Practice?”  British  Journal  of 
Educational  Technology  41(6):  952-962. 

McGreal,  R.  (2004).  Online  Education  Using  Learning  Objects.  Palmer  Press: 
Washington,  D.C. 

McGreal,  R.  (2008).  “A  Typology  of  Learning  Object  Repositories.”  In  International 
Handbook  on  Information  Technologies  for  Education  and  Training.  (2nd  ed.). 
Adelsberger,  H.,  Kinshuk,  Pawlovski,  J.M.  and  Sampson,  D.  (eds.).  Springer- 
Verlag:  Heidelberg,  pp.  5-18. 

Paquette,  G.,  Marino,  O.,  Lundgren-Cayrol,  K.  and  Leonard,  M.  (2008). 

“Principled  Construction  and  Reuse  of  Learning  Designs.”  In  Handbook  of 
Research  on  Learning  Design  and  Learning  Objects:  Issues , Applications,  and 
Technologies.  Lockyer,  L.,  Bennett,  S.,  Agostinho,  S.  and  Harper,  B.  (eds.). 
IGI  Publishing:  Hershey,  PA,  pp.  869-890. 

Rajashekar,  T.B.,  Walters,  S.,  Singhal,  M.,  Tanner,  S.  and  Deegan,  M.  (2007).  Digital 
Libraries  in  Education,  Science  and  Culture:  Analytical  Survey.  UNESCO 
Institute  for  Information  Technologies  in  Education,  Russian  Federation. 

Rocard,  M.,  Csermely,  P.,  Jorde,  D.,  Lenzen,  D.,  Walberg-Henriksson,  H.  and 
Hemmo,  V.  (2007).  Science  Education  Now:  A Renewed  Pedagogy  for  the 
Future  of  Europe.  European  Commission. 

Sampson,  D.,  Karampiperis,  P.  and  Zervas,  P.  (2005).  “ASK-LDT:  A Web-Based 
Learning  Scenarios  Authoring  Environment  Based  on  IMS  Learning 
Design.”  International  Journal  on  Advanced  Technology  for  Learning  (ATL) 
2(4):  207-215. 

Sampson,  D.  and  Zervas,  P.  (2008).  “Enhancing  Educational  Metadata 

with  Science  Education  Information.”  Proceedings  of  the  8th  IEEE 
International  Conference  on  Advanced  Learning  Technologies  (ICALT), 
1-5  July  2008,  Santander,  Cantabria,  Spain. 

Sampson,  D.,  Zervas,  P.  and  Kalamatianos,  A.  (2011a).  “ASK-LOST  2.0:  A 

Web-based  Tool  for  Social  Tagging  Digital  Educational  Resources  in 
Learning  Environments.”  In  Social  Media  Tools  and  Platforms  in  Learning 
Environments:  Present  and  Future.  White,  B.,  King,  I.  andTsang,  P.  (eds.). 
Springer-Verlag:  Heidelberg,  pp.  387-435. 

Sampson,  D.,  Zervas,  P.  and  Sotiriou,  S.  (2011b).  “COSMOS:  A Web-Based 

Repository  of  Learning  Designs  for  Science  Education.”  [special  issue] 
Advanced  Science  Letters  4(11/12):  3366-3374. 


120 


Sampson,  D.,  Zervas,  P.  and  Sotiriou,  S.  (2011c).  “Science  Education 

Resources  Supported  with  Educational  Metadata:  The  Case  of  the 
OpenScienceResources  Web  Repository.”  [special  issue]  Advanced  Science 
Letters  4(11/12):  3353-3361. 

Sampson,  D.,  Zervas,  P.  and  Chloros,  G.  [in  press].  “Supporting  the  Process  of 

Developing  and  Managing  LOM  Application  Profiles:  The  ASK-LOM-AP 
Tool.”  IEEE  Transactions  on  Learning  Technologies  (TLT). 

Smith,  N.,  Van  Coillie,  M.  and  Duval,  E.  (2006).  “Guidelines  and  Support  for 
Building  Application  Profiles  in  e-Learning.”  In  CEN/ISSS  WS/LT 
Learning  Technologies  Workshop  CWA.  Smith,  N.,  Van  Coillie,  M.  and 
Duval,  E.  (eds.).  Brussels,  Publisher:  CEN  Workshop  Agreements:  Brussels, 

pp.  1-26. 

Wiley,  D.A.  (ed.)  (2002).  The  Instructional  Use  of  Learning  Objects.  Association  for 
Educational  Communications  and  Technology:  Bloomington,  IN. 

Wilson,  S.  (2005).  “Architectures  to  Support  Authoring  and  Content  Management 
with  Learning  Design.”  In  Learning  Design:  A Handbook  on  Modeling  and 
Delivering  Networked  Education  and  Training.  Koper,  R.  and  Tattersall,  C. 
(eds.).  Springer-Verlag:  Heidelberg,  pp.  41-62. 


121 


PART 


Diffusing  OER 


Introduction 


The  diffusion  of  learning  content  is  essential  for  the  development  of  a healthy, 
sustainable  and  cost-effective  learning  environment.  Diffusion  results  in  the 
mixing,  mashing,  re-using  and/or  repurposing  of  available  educational  content. 
Because  of  restrictions,  both  technological  and  legal,  the  diffusion  of  proprietary 
content  becomes  problematic  and  a serious  impediment  to  the  sharing  of 
knowledge  not  only  across  institutions  and  international  borders,  but  also 
internally  within  organisations.  So,  it  can  be  argued  that  unrestricted  OER  are 
essential  for  the  development  of  sustainable  educational  content  ecosystems: 
only  unrestricted  OER  can  be  diffused,  supporting  mixing,  mashing,  re-use  and 
repurposing. 

The  first  stage  of  attaining  such  a sustainable  system  — creating  and  deploying  a 
critical  mass  of  open  content  online  — has  already  been  reached.  There  are  now 
millions  of  OER  at  all  levels  of  education  and  training  that  can  be  accessed  and 
used.  Another  necessary  pre-condition  for  the  diffusion  of  OER  is  one  that  OER 
proponents  are  now  building:  an  international  community  for  active,  engaged 
users  of  OER:  users  who  not  only  create  content  for  others  to  use,  but  who  also 
adapt  available  content  and  assemble  courses  using  OER. 

In  Chapter  9,  “Open  Educational  Resources:  Access  to  Knowledge  - A Personal 
Reflection,”  D’Antoni,  a leader  in  the  OER  community,  writes  a personal  memoir. 
She  provides  us  with  background  on  the  beginnings  of  the  OER  movement  in 
supporting  the  development  of  the  OER  community,  from  the  first  meeting 
sponsored  by  UNESCO,  which  considers  access  to  education  to  be  a fundamental 
human  right.  It  was  at  that  first  UNESCO  meeting  on  open  content  that  the 
participants  coined  the  term  “Open  Educational  Resources.”  D’Antoni  describes 
the  creation  of  the  first  international  online  community  of  OER-interested 
people  and  the  role  played  by  philanthropic  funders.  She  emphasises  the  need 
for  inclusiveness  in  these  activities  as  a way  of  ensuring  that  OER  have  value  for 


125 


the  various  user  communities.  She  identifies  awareness,  training  and  promotion 
as  major  issues  for  the  successful  diffusion  of  OER  internationally.  D’Antoni  is 
currently  leading  an  exploration  of  the  feasibility  of  a collaborative  mapping  of 
OER  initiatives  worldwide.  She  concludes  her  chapter  by  describing  some  of  the 
more  significant  initiatives. 

Does  it  matter  whether  Internet  content  is  open  licensed  or  not?  Based  on  his 
experience  with  the  Open  University  UK’s  OpenLearn  initiative,  Lane  notes  in 
Chapter  10,  “How  OER  Support  Lifelong  Learning,”  that  learners  in  formal  and 
informal  learning  contexts  do  not  care  about  the  licence  as  long  as  the  content  is 
available  and  accessible  online.  He  points  to  the  growth  of  both  interest- driven 
and  career-driven  learners  and  the  difference  in  how  they  approach  the  use  of 
Internet  resources.  For  the  most  part,  especially  in  formal  learning  situations, 
these  resources  are  used  to  supplement  the  course  rather  than  as  integral 
components.  Lane  sees  the  diffusion  of  quality  materials  as  being  guaranteed  by 
the  reputation  of  the  institution  that  offers  them.  However,  the  need  for  direction 
and  structuring  with  pedagogic  elements  is  stressed,  with  emphasis  on  size  and 
complexity  issues  and  the  differing  needs  of  teachers  and  learners. 

In  Chapter  11,  “An  Open  ‘Materials’  Repository  and  Global  Search  System: 
Preparing  for  Diverse  Learners  and  a Variety  of  Learning  Processes,”  Yamada 
looks  at  the  technical  issues  around  OER  content  diffusion.  He  stresses  the  need 
for  developing,  adapting  and  using  formal  technical  specifications  to  support 
the  diffusion  of  content  over  networks.  He  describes  the  international  GLOBE 
consortium  as  a common  platform,  and  discusses  strategies  for  collecting  digital 
content.  He  outlines  the  history  of  learning  object  development  in  Japan, 
describing  the  Open  University  of  Japan’s  closed  repository.  Stressing  the  need 
for  modularity  in  course  design,  Yamada  then  looks  at  the  problems  of  diffusion 
using  intelligent  search  engines.  He  supports  the  use  of  international,  standards- 
based  metadata  for  this  purpose,  proposing  a metadata  repository.  In  agreement 
with  international  partners  in  the  GLOBE  consortium,  his  system  supports 
the  harvesting  of  this  metadata  from  a federation  of  metadata  repositories  now 
in  existence  in  several  countries.  Examples  include  MERLOT  in  the  U.S.  and 
ARIADNE  in  Europe.  The  quality  is  assured  by  restricting  submissions  to  educators 
and  by  allowing  different  evaluations  of  the  same  OER  to  be  accepted. 

Wikiwijs,  the  Dutch  all-inclusive  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary  OER  initiative 
is  the  final  chapter  in  the  Diffusing  OER  theme.  In  Chapter  12,  “Wikiwijs:  Using 
OER  as  a Driver  for  Maturation,”  Schuwer  echoes  D’Antoni’s  (Chapter  9)  emphasis 
on  community,  claiming  that  the  “ownership”  of  the  movement  by  the  teachers 
is  the  critical  factor  in  its  success.  In  supporting  openness,  the  Wikiwijs  project,  as 
a stimulus  for  change,  will  have  a major  impact  on  education  in  the  country.  The 
open  design  of  “learning  trajectories,”  the  author  contends,  will  change  the  core 
of  education.  The  author  even  suggests  that  OER  are  a “necessary  pre-condition” 
for  professional  education.  The  emphasis  on  metadata  application  profiles  being 
“tedious  but  necessary”  supports  Yamada’s  (Chapter  11)  concerns  about  the 
importance  of  metadata  repositories  and  harvesting  to  overcome  problems  of 
granularity  and  scalability. 


126 


CHAPTER 


Open  Educational  Resources: 
Access  to  Knowledge  - A Personal 
Reflection 


Susan  D 'Antoni, 
Athabasca  University 


“At  the  heart  of  the  movement  towards  Open  Educational  Resources 
is  the  simple  and  powerful  idea  that  the  world's  knowledge  is  a public 
good  and  that  technology  in  general  and  the  Worldwide  Web  in 
particular  provide  an  opportunity  for  everyone  to  share,  use,  and 
reuse  it.”  (Smith  and  Casserly  2006,  p.  2) 

Having  followed  and  been  engaged  in  the  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER) 
movement  since  2002  when  the  term  was  coined,  I feel  it's  timely  to  look  back 
over  the  decade  and  reflect.  At  the  United  Nations  Education,  Science  and  Culture 
Organization  (UNESCO)  until  2009, 1 saw  Open  Educational  Resources  in  the 
context  of  their  potential  to  contribute  to  the  building  of  knowledge  societies  and 
focused  on  raising  awareness  through  an  international  community  of  interest.  Now 
associated  with  the  UNESCO/COL  Chair  in  OER  created  at  Athabasca  University  in 
Canada,  I have  shifted  my  focus  to  promoting  an  international  network  through 
the  UNESCO  Chairs  in  OER  and  their  respective  networks  of  partners. 

But  this  chapter  is  largely  a personal  reflection,  drawing  a red  thread  through 
my  experience  and  bringing  together  thoughts  from  several  of  my  speeches  and 
writing.  Behind  the  specific  activities  associated  with  one’s  work  lie  the  layers 
of  interest  and  thinking  that  accumulate  over  a lifetime.  We  bring  these  to  each 
new  endeavour,  which,  in  turn,  builds  upon  and  enriches  them  further.  These 
reflections  of  mine  lead  towards  opening  access  to  education  and  knowledge 
and,  specifically,  Open  Educational  Resources.  The  thread  links  professional 
experience  and  favourite  personal  interests:  the  library  (my  first  job)  and 
information  dissemination  (projects  at  the  Canadian  Association  for  Adult 
Education,  the  Ontario  Institute  for  Studies  in  Education),  distance  education  and 
the  potential  of  new  technologies  (Ryerson  University  in  Toronto),  educational 
planning  (Association  of  Universities  and  Colleges  of  Canada,  the  International 
Institute  for  Educational  Planning)  and,  always,  learning  and  access  to  knowledge. 


127 


Introduction 


“Indistinct,  majestic,  ever-present,  the  tacit  architecture  of  that 
infinite  Library  [of  Alexandria]  continues  to  haunt  our  dreams  of 
universal  order.  Nothing  like  it  has  ever  been  achieved,  though 
other  libraries  (the  Web  included)  have  tried  to  copy  its  astonishing 
ambition.”  (Manguel  2006,  p.  24) 

As  a very  small  child,  I was  enchanted  by  books  and  loved  being  read  to.  The  fat 
books  I was  given  had  few  drawings  and  held  their  messages  to  themselves  while  1 
was  too  young  to  read.  Those  books  were  opened  to  me  by  my  father  as  he  read  us 
both  to  sleep  in  my  bedroom  under  the  eaves  at  the  top  of  my  grandparents'  house 
in  Toronto.  My  father  — the  reader  — was  the  first  key  to  opening  those  books, 
their  stories  and  their  knowledge. 

As  an  older  child,  and  by  then  a reader  myself,  I was  allowed  to  cross  the  park  in 
front  of  the  house  to  wander  freely  through  the  children’s  library  that  was  housed 
in  a lovely  old  grey  stone  building.  Here,  I began  to  sense  there  was  an  order  that 
allowed  one  to  find  what  one  wanted  by  something  other  than  size  or  colour,  but 
it  was  not  obvious  yet. 

Later,  at  school,  the  Dewey  Decimal  System  and  the  card  catalogue  provided  the 
key  to  unlock  the  library  and  its  treasures.  After  I completed  my  university  degree, 
that  love  of  books  and  the  knowledge  they  shared  made  me  consider  becoming 
a librarian,  and  I went  to  work  as  a librarian  candidate  in  the  public  library  of 
the  small  provincial  city  in  which  I had  passed  my  university  years  in  beautiful 
grey  stone  buildings.  The  library,  too,  I might  note,  was  housed  in  a grey  stone 
building.  Assigned  fortuitously  to  the  children’s  section,  I found  once  again  many 
of  the  books  I had  been  read  so  many  years  ago.  1 did  not  become  a librarian,  but 
read  to  my  own  child  each  night  until  she  herself  became  a reader  and,  in  fact, 
created  her  personal  library  by  ordering  and  cataloguing  her  own  books. 

Libraries  have  remained  favourite  places  for  me,  as  have  bookstores.  And  so, 
when  dawdling  in  a bookstore  in  the  Toronto  airport  I happened  upon  a book 
entitled  The  Library  at  Night,  I picked  it  up  immediately  to  take  home  to  Paris  to 
my  apartment  in  yet  another  beautiful  grey  stone  building.  Its  author,  Alberto 
Manguel,  an  Argentinean  who  lived  in  Toronto  for  some  time,  had  subsequently 
moved  to  France  where  he  created  his  own  library  in  what  I,  myself,  envision 
as  a very  old  grey  stone  building.  Musing  about  the  origins  of  the  library  in  the 
opening  chapter  of  the  book,  “The  Library  as  Myth,”  he  invites  the  reader  to 
consider  two  buildings  that  he  states  stand  for  everything  we  are:  the  Tower  of 
Babel  and  the  Library  of  Alexandria: 

“The  first,  erected  to  reach  the  unreachable  heavens,  rose  from  our 
desire  to  conquer  space,  a desire  punished  by  the  plurality  of  tongues 
that  even  today  lays  daily  obstacles  against  our  attempts  at  making 
ourselves  known  to  one  another.  The  second,  built  to  assemble,  from 
all  over  the  world,  what  those  tongues  had  tried  to  record,  sprang 
from  our  hope  to  vanquish  time,  and  ended  in  the  legendary  fire  that 
consumed  even  the  present.”  (Manguel  2006,  pp.  18-19) 

It  is  the  second  concept,  that  of  the  universal  library,  that  resonates  with  the 
objective  of  increasing  access  to  knowledge  inherent  in  the  vision  of  the  Open 
Educational  Resources  movement. 


128 


Education,  Learning  and  Knowledge  Societies 

“Everyone  has  the  right  to  education.  Education  shall  be  free,  at  least 
in  the  elementary  and  fundamental  stages.  Elementary  education 
shall  be  compulsory.  Technical  and  professional  education  shall 
be  made  generally  available  and  higher  education  shall  be  equally 
accessible  to  all  on  the  basis  of  merit.”  (United  Nations,  1948, 

Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  Article  2) 

One  fundamental  human  right  is  education,  and  this  right  is  enshrined  in 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly 
of  the  United  Nations  in  1948.  Universal  education  remains  a goal,  but  it  also 
remains  a challenge  to  the  international  community.  Education  for  All  (EFA)  is 
an  international  initiative  launched  in  Jomtien,  Thailand,  in  1990  to  bring  the 
benefits  of  education  to  “every  citizen  in  every  society.”  A broad  coalition  of 
national  governments,  civil  society  groups,  and  development  agencies  such  as 
UNESCO  and  the  World  Bank  committed  to  achieving  six  specific  education  goals 
(World  Bank  [n.d.]): 

“•  Expand  and  improve  comprehensive  early  childhood  care  and 
education,  especially  for  the  most  vulnerable  and  disadvantaged 
children. 

• Ensure  that  by  2015  all  children,  particularly  girls,  those  in 
difficult  circumstances,  and  those  belonging  to  ethnic  minorities, 
have  access  to  complete,  free,  and  compulsory  primary  education 
of  good  quality. 

• Ensure  that  the  learning  needs  of  all  young  people  and  adults  are 
met  through  equitable  access  to  appropriate  learning  and  life- 
skills  programmes. 

• Achieve  a 50%  improvement  in  adult  literacy  by  2015,  especially 
for  women,  and  equitable  access  to  basic  and  continuing 
education  for  all  adults. 

• Eliminate  gender  disparities  in  primary  and  secondary  education 
by  2005,  and  achieve  gender  equality  in  education  by  2015, 
with  a focus  on  ensuring  girls'  full  and  equal  access  to  and 
achievement  in  basic  education  of  good  quality. 

• Improve  all  aspects  of  the  quality  of  education  and  ensure  the 
excellence  of  all  so  that  recognized  and  measurable  learning 
outcomes  are  achieved  by  all,  especially  in  literacy,  numeracy  and 
essential  life  skills.” 

Ten  years  later,  the  international  community  once  again  affirmed  its  commitment 
to  EFA  in  Dakar,  Senegal,  aiming  to  meet  the  learning  needs  of  all  children,  youth 
and  adults  by  2015.  But  the  goal  of  Education  for  All  remains  elusive.  According 
to  UNESCO  (2011a,  p.  5),  “The  world  is  not  on  track  to  achieve  the  Education  for 
All  targets  set  for  2015.”  The  number  of  children  out  of  school  is  falling  too  slowly, 
about  17  per  cent  of  adults  lack  basic  literacy  skills,  the  quality  of  education  is  low 
in  many  countries  and  1.9  million  more  teachers  are  needed. 

And  increasing  participation  in  primary  education  results  is  increasing  demand 
for  secondary  education: 


129 


• “Secondary  education  is  becoming  a growing  concern  and  major  challenge 
for  education  policy  makers  and  researchers  worldwide  as  it  plays  an 
increasingly  important  role  in  creating  healthy  and  cohesive  societies  and 
spurs  economic  growth.  It  represents  a critical  stage  of  the  system  that  not 
only  links  initial  education  to  higher  education,  but  also  connects  the 
school  system  to  the  labour  market.”  (UNESCO  2011b,  p.  7) 

• Education  systems  reflect  the  societies  they  serve.  Each  is  unique  and, 
therefore,  diverse.  The  UNESCO  World  Report  of  2005  put  forward  the 
concept  of  “knowledge  societies,”  noting  that  the  plural  form  points  to  the 
need  to  recognise  and  accept  that  diversity. 

• “The  aims  associated  with  the  desire  to  build  knowledge  societies  are 
ambitious.  Providing  basic  education  for  all,  promoting  lifelong  education 
for  all,  encouraging  the  spread  of  research  and  development  efforts  in  all 
countries  of  the  world  ...  - all  these  efforts  towards  the  participation  of  all  in 
knowledge-sharing  and  the  establishment,  even  in  the  most  disadvantaged 
countries,  of  a true  knowledge  potential,  represent  a considerable 
undertaking.  Are  such  ambitions  within  reach?”  (UNESCO  2005,  p.  186) 

If  this  was  a challenging  question  in  2005,  it  is  all  the  more  so  now  with  the 
ongoing  effects  of  the  recent  financial  crisis.  Just  at  the  moment,  when  more  and 
more  is  expected  of  education  systems,  the  means  of  reaching  the  goals  of  the 
Education  for  All  initiative  may  be  severely  compromised. 

In  its  education  strategy  for  the  next  decade,  Learning  for  All:  Investing  in  People’s 
Knowledge  and  Skills  to  Promote  Development,  the  World  Bank  has  shifted  the  focus 
from  education  to  learning  (2011,  p.  1): 

“The  overarching  goal  is  not  just  schooling,  but  learning.  Getting 
millions  more  children  into  school  has  been  a great  achievement. 

The  World  Bank  Group  is  committed  to  building  on  this  progress 
and  stepping  up  its  support  to  help  all  countries  achieve  Education 
for  All  (EFA)  and  the  education  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The  driver  of  development  will,  however,  ultimately  be  what 
individuals  learn,  both  in  and  out  of  school,  from  preschool  through 
the  labour  market.” 


Opening  Education  - Enabling  Learning 

Open  and  Distance  Learning 

“I  was  persuaded  that  the  standard  of  teaching  in  conventional 
universities  was  pretty  deplorable.  It  suddenly  struck  me  that  if  you 
could  use  the  media  and  devise  course  materials  that  would  work  for 
students  all  by  themselves,  then  inevitably  you  were  bound  to  affect 
— for  good  — the  standard  of  teaching  in  conventional  universities.” 
(Perry  1988) 

Open  and  distance  learning  has  played  a significant  role  in  the  trend  to  opening 
education  to  more  learners,  freeing  them  from  the  constraints  of  time  and 
place  and  the  need  to  assemble  in  grey  stone  buildings  or  their  like.  The  Open 
University  UK  was  founded  as  an  institution  that  would  be  open  — open  to 


130 


people,  places,  methods  and  ideas.  It  represented  an  innovative  means  to  increase 
access  to  higher  education.  Sir  Walter  Perry,  the  first  Vice  Chancellor,  made  the 
prescient  comment  above  when  stating  why  he  was  initially  interested  in  the  new 
university. 

Brenda  Gourley,  the  past  Vice  Chancellor,  articulated  three  imperatives  for 
finding  innovative  ways  to  expand  access  to  quality  educational  opportunities 
(Gourley  2004,  p.  4): 

• a demographic  imperative  - meeting  the  increasing  need  for  lifelong 
learning  cannot  be  met  by  traditional  approaches; 

• a financial  imperative  - the  cost  of  building  infrastructure  is  simply  not 
feasible;  and 

• an  educational  imperative  - to  develop  a model  for  this  century. 

Not  only  do  open  universities  and  other  distance  education  institutions  serve 
to  increase  access,  but  their  methods,  expertise  and  experience  have  much  to 
contribute  to  the  planning  and  provision  of  education  for  all  in  the  21st  century. 

Technology 

Various  technologies  have  served  and  continue  to  serve  both  conventional  and 
distance  learning  institutions,  as  well  as  their  students,  to  make  education  more 
flexible,  more  accessible  and  more  open.  But  perhaps  no  technological  innovation 
has  had  the  potential  impact  of  the  Internet  and  the  Web.  I have  often  made 
reference  to  John  Seely  Brown,  who,  when  writing  about  learning  in  a digital  age, 
suggested  electricity  as  an  apt  analogy  for  the  impact  of  the  Internet  and  the  Web 
(Brown  2000,  pp.  1-2): 

“In  1831  Michael  Faraday  built  a small  generator  that  produced 
electricity,  but  a generation  passed  before  an  industrial  version  was 
built,  and  then  another  25  years  before  all  the  necessary  accoutrements 
for  electrification  came  into  place  — power  companies,  neighborhood 
wiring,  appliances  (like  light  bulbs)  that  required  electricity,  and  so  on. 

But  when  that  infrastructure  finally  took  hold,  everything  changed  — 
homes,  work  places,  transportation,  entertainment,  architecture,  what 
we  ate,  even  when  we  went  to  bed.  Worldwide,  electricity  became  a 
transformative  medium  for  social  practices. 

“In  quite  the  same  way  the  World  Wide  Web  will  be  a transformative 
medium,  as  important  as  electricity.” 

Working  in  distance  education  in  the  '70s  and  early  '80s,  I felt  that  the  focus  was 
on  each  new  technology  and  not  on  the  applications  and  the  appropriateness  of 
the  technology  to  them.  Now  there  is  a growing  body  of  open  content  needing 
a means  of  being  distributed  and  used.  Furthermore,  there  appears  to  be  a 
convergence  of  the  increasing  connectivity  worldwide  through  the  Internet 
and  the  growing  pervasiveness  of  low-cost  devices  such  as  mobile  phones  and 
laptop  computers,  coupled  with  the  increasing  availability  of  openly  licensed 
educational  content.  The  Internet  and  the  Web  have  facilitated  access  to  a wealth 
of  material  in  a way  that  may  transform  education  and  learning.  When  material 
is  free  of  copyright,  it  may  be  readily  used  by  educators  and  learners  — adopted  or 
adapted  — potentially  spurring  creativity  and  innovation. 


131 


Sir  John  Daniel  (2009)  has  described  an  “iron  triangle”  of  access,  cost  and  quality, 
which  has  hindered  the  expansion  of  education  in  a classroom  setting  throughout 
history.  As  access  or  quality  is  improved,  costs  rise  as  well.  But,  he  contends, 
technology  can  transform  that  iron  triangle  into  a flexible  one  through  the 
principles  identified  by  Adam  Smith:  division  of  labour,  specialisation,  economies 
of  scale  and  the  use  of  machines  and  communication  media.  This  describes  the 
organisation  and  achievement  of  open  and  distance  education. 


Open  Educational  Resources 

“Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  are  high  quality,  openly  licensed, 
online  educational  materials  that  offer  an  extraordinary  opportunity 
for  people  everywhere  to  share,  use  and  reuse  knowledge.”  (William 
and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  [n.d.],  p.  1) 


A Vision 

For  many  years,  the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  has  acted  as  champion 
of  the  OER  movement,  nurturing  and  promoting  it.  The  vision  for  this  important 
role  was  articulated  in  the  2002  strategic  plan  that  included  a new  component, 
“Using  Information  Technology  to  Increase  Access  to  High-Quality  Educational 
Content.”  The  rationale  for  this  component  resonates  with  the  vision  of  the  open 
university  movement  to  increase  access  to  learning,  and  with  the  comment  of  Sir 
Walter  Perry  cited  earlier  about  the  potential  to  raise  the  standards  of  teaching 
(William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  2002,  p.  6): 

“The  focus  of  this  component  is  on  creating  exemplars  of  academic 
content  that  are  free  and  accessible  to  all  on  the  web....  [T]hese 
exemplars  ...  will  help  raise  the  level  of  quality  of  academic  content 
by  setting  a standard  of  practice....  One  criterion  [is  that] ...  it  must 
set  quality  benchmarks  and  potentially  establish  new  models  for 
organising  and  delivering  content.” 

It  was  not  just  course  materials  that  were  to  be  made  available,  but  also  modules, 
learning  objects,  library  materials  and  journal-related  data.  Together  these 
materials  were  described  as  “a  new  public  library.” 

In  2002, 1 attended  a meeting  at  UNESCO  of  a group  of  academics,  largely  from 
developing  countries,  who  had  been  convened  with  support  from  the  William 
and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  to  consider  a new  initiative  of  the  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology  (MIT).  OpenCourseWare  (OCW)  aimed  at  making 
all  MIT  course  materials  available  on  the  Web.  The  academics  listened  to 
the  presentations  and  found  both  the  concept  and  the  specific  initiative  to 
have  great  potential  for  education.  They  coined  the  term,  “Open  Educational 
Resources”,  with  the  initial  definition  cited  above,  and  expressed  “their  wish 
to  develop  together  a universal  educational  resource  available  for  the  whole  of 
humanity”  (UNESCO  2002,  p.  1). 

A Landscape  of  Initiatives 

After  more  than  a decade  of  development,  a global  landscape  of  institutional  OER 
initiatives  with  varying  objectives  and  approaches  is  emerging  — a testimony 


132 


to  the  innovation  spurred  by  the  concept,  along  with  the  growing  access  to 
technology  and  tools  and  with  the  increasing  comfort  with  both. 

After  considering  a range  of  options  for  digital  learning,  MIT  launched  its 
OpenCourseWare  (OCW)  initiative  with  the  publication  of  50  courses  in  2002. 

By  2010,  2,000  courses  had  been  published.  MIT’s  goal  for  the  next  decade  is  to 
multiply  its  reach  by  ten  and  reach  a billion  minds.  “We  aspire  by  2021  to  make 
open  educational  resources  like  MIT  OpenCourseWare  the  tools  to  bridge  the 
global  gap  between  human  potential  and  opportunity,  so  that  motivated  people 
everywhere  can  improve  their  lives  and  change  the  world”(OCW  [n.d.],  p.  1). 

This  model  for  a traditional  university  to  disseminate  knowledge  and  share 
scholarship  inspired  other  institutions  to  adopt  the  approach  and  several  hundred 
higher  education  institutions  have  come  together  in  the  OpenCourseWare 
Consortium  (OCWC).  OCWC  is  committed  to  advancing  OpenCourseWare  by 
acting  “as  a resource  for  starting  and  sustaining  OCW  projects,  as  a coordinating 
body  for  the  movement  on  a global  scale,  and  as  a forum  for  exchange  of  ideas  and 
future  planning”  (OCW  Consortium  [n.d.]).  Building  on  OCW,  in  late  2011,  MIT 
announced  MITx,  an  online  learning  initiative  with  the  objective  of  improving 
education  at  MIT  and  internationally.  It  will  make  online  MIT  courses  available 
to  learners  around  the  world  and  will  offer  them  the  possibility  of  a certificate  of 
completion.  The  open  source  platform  will  be  offered  to  educational  institutions 
everywhere  with  the  “hope  that  teachers  and  students  the  world  over  will  together 
create  learning  opportunities  that  break  barriers  to  education  everywhere”  (MIT 

2011,  p.  1). 

The  Connexions  project  at  Rice  University  was  started  to  address  some  of  the 
problems  associated  with  publishing  educational  materials.  The  goal  was  to  make 
high-quality,  open  source  educational  content  widely  available  (Henry  2004). 
Connexions  functions  as  “an  open  source  platform  and  open  access  repository 
for  open  education  resources,  enabling  the  creation,  sharing,  modification,  and 
vetting  of  open  educational  material  accessible  to  anyone,  anywhere,  anytime  via 
the  World  Wide  Web”  (http://cnxconsortium.org/).  The  Connexions  Consortium 
links  a number  of  institutions  that  have  come  together  to  advance  both  open 
source  educational  technology  and  open  educational  content. 

Carnegie  Mellon  University  launched  the  Open  Learning  Initiative  (OLI)  to 
develop  “exemplars  of  high  quality,  online  courses  that  support  individual 
learners  in  achieving  the  same  goals  as  students  enrolled  in  similar  courses  at 
Carnegie  Mellon”  (Thille  2009).  Using  a concept  similar  to  that  of  the  course  team 
that  was  originated  by  the  Open  University  UK,  OLI  courses  benefit  from  the  close 
collaboration  of  cognitive  scientists,  experts  in  human-computer  interaction  and 
experienced  faculty  members.  Significantly,  courses  have  assessment  embedded 
into  the  instructional  activity,  and  the  technology  that  delivers  the  instruction 
also  collects  data  to  give  feedback  to  students,  instructors,  course  designers 
and  learning  science  researchers.  The  courses  have  been  made  available  to 
independent  learners  at  no  cost  and  at  low  cost  to  students  using  the  materials  in 
accredited  courses. 

OpenLearn  was  established  by  the  Open  University  with  the  vision  of  providing 
free  online  education,  open  to  anyone,  anywhere  in  the  world.  A website  was 
launched  in  2006,  and  in  the  first  two  years,  8,000  study  hours  of  learning 


133 


material  were  added  (Open  University  2009a,  p.  1).  In  2010  OpenLearn  was 
merged  with  open2.net  that  supports  BBC  broadcasts,  and  now  material  is 
available  on  YouTube  and  iTunesU  as  well.  The  OpenLearn  website  currently  offers 
differing  levels  of  engagement  to  potential  users.  They  are  invited  to:  Explore 
topics  or  subjects  that  interest  them;  Try  course  materials  in  LearningSpace  (more 
than  500  units  from  12  subject  areas)  that  are  freely  and  openly  available;  or 
Study  as  an  enrolled  student  for  accreditation.  In  keeping  with  its  tradition  of 
conducting  and  disseminating  research  on  open  learning,  the  Open  University 
is  a partner  with  Carnegie  Mellon  University  in  the  OLnet  project,  “an 
international  hub  that  aims  to  gather  evidence  and  methods  about  how  we  can 
research  and  understand  ways  to  learn  in  a more  open  world,  particularly  linked 
to  OER”  (www.olnet.org/). 

The  African  Virtual  University  was  launched  as  a project  of  the  World  Bank  in 
1997.  In  2003,  it  became  a pan-African  intergovernmental  organization  with 
the  aim  of  increasing  access  to  quality  higher  education  through  the  innovative 
use  of  information  and  communication  technologies  (ICTs).  The  African  Virtual 
University  has  created  a network  of  distance  and  eLearning  institutions  in 
over  30  anglophone,  francophone  and  lusophone  countries  in  Sub-Saharan 
Africa.  Its  Open  Educational  Resources  portal,  OER@AVU,  has  the  objectives  of 
facilitating  increased  participation  in  the  creation,  organisation,  dissemination 
and  utilisation  of  OERs;  addressing  issues  pertaining  to  relevance  of  OERs  to  the 
African  context;  reducing  technological  challenges;  and  enabling  institutions  to 
participate  actively,  by  driving  and  owning  the  process  in  terms  of  form,  content, 
structure  and  orientation  (http://oer.avu.org/).  This  repository  was  created  in 
early  2010  to  act  as  a platform  for  the  73  modules  that  had  been  developed  as  OER 
with  the  involvement  of  12  universities.  This  significant  initiative  is  a model  for 
multilingual  regional  collaboration  and  networking. 

Recognising  the  importance  of  offering  academic  credit  to  those  learning  with 
open  resources,  an  international  group  of  institutions  has  begun  to  collaborate 
in  the  OER  university,  OERu,  initiative.  The  objective  is  to  provide  free  learning 
opportunities  with  OER  and  pathways  to  qualifications  from  recognised 
education  institutions.  The  initiative  is  couched  in  the  community  service  and 
outreach  mission  of  the  university  to  provide  a “parallel  learning  universe” 
(WikiEducator  2011,  p.  1),  an  alternative  path  for  learners  to  the  traditional 
system.  An  inaugural  meeting  was  held  in  early  2011  with  ten  founding  partners. 
That  number  had  grown  to  20  partners  as  of  August  2012,  together  who  are  now 
developing  prototype  courses. 

Operating  as  a grassroots  open  education  project,  Peer  2 Peer  University  (P2PU) 
“organizes  learning  outside  of  institutional  walls  and  gives  learners  recognition 
for  their  achievements”  (http://p2pu.org).  It  was  founded  in  2009  by  five  people 
who  saw  the  need  for  a peer  component  in  open  education  and  is  committed  to 
openness,  community  and  peer  learning:  “Open  sharing  and  collaboration  enable 
participation,  innovation,  and  accountability.”  The  P2PU  community  is  open 
to  any  participants  and  their  content  can  be  accessed  and  used  by  anyone.  The 
P2PU  model,  processes  and  technology  are  also  open  and  accountable.  Although 
some  seed  money  has  been  made  available  by  the  Hewlett  and  Shuttleworth 
Foundations,  P2PU  is  community-centred  and  run  largely  by  volunteers  who 
organise  the  courses.  Together  the  Internet  and  open  educational  materials  make 


134 


high-quality,  low-cost  education  opportunities  possible.  P2PU  aims  to  create  a 
model  for  lifelong  learning  alongside  traditional  formal  higher  education,  similar 
in  intent  to  the  “parallel  learning  universe”  of  OERu. 


Impact 

The  initiatives  outlined  above  indicate  the  diversity  of  OER  initiatives.  Just  as  Sir 
Walter  Perry  felt  that  open  and  distance  learning  could  have  a positive  impact  on 
conventional  institutions,  these  OER  initiatives  have  a broad  potential  impact 
that  will  contribute  to  making  knowledge  more  accessible  and  benefit  both 
educators  and  learners.  The  Carnegie  Mellon  initiative  stated  explicitly  its  aim  to 
create  “exemplars”  of  high  quality.  But  what  is  striking  in  even  a limited  overview 
of  mainly  institutional  OER  initiatives  is  their  creativity  and  innovation  in 
expanding  access  to  new  learning  opportunities  — and,  in  doing  so,  addressing 
some  of  the  pressing  efforts  of  nations  to  meet  the  lifelong  learning  needs  of  their 
populations  through  both  formal  and  non-formal  means.  And  although  the 
OER  movement  began  at  the  higher  education  level,  there  are  now  OER-related 
initiatives  at  other  levels,  including  international  work  at  the  OECD  (Organisation 
for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development)  and  UNESCO  (with  the  2012  Paris 
OER  Declaration),  plus  national  and  state  government  policies  related  to  OER. 


Promoting  OER,  Community  Building  and  Networking 

Although  intended  to  promote  a sharing  of  the  world's  knowledge,  much  of 
the  OER  development  at  the  beginning  of  the  movement  was  in  the  North, 
particularly  in  the  United  States.  For  this  reason,  creating  a space  for  interested 
individuals  from  developing  and  developed  countries  to  come  together  to  “talk” 
around  a virtual  table  was  an  important  step  to  raise  awareness  of  this  new 
initiative  and  some  of  the  related  issues  and  concerns. 

From  2005  to  2009, 1 had  the  extremely  rewarding  experience  of  convening 
and  supporting  an  international  online  community  on  OER.  Launched  at  the 
International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning  (IIEP)  of  UNESCO  with  support  from 
the  William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation,  the  community  assembled  almost  500 
people  initially  and  grew  steadily  over  the  succeeding  years.  Community  members 
represented  a wide  range  of  organisations,  but  over  half  came  from  universities  and 
distance  teaching  institutions.  About  40  per  cent  held  senior  management  positions. 
Teachers  represented  about  20  per  cent,  and  researchers  and  project  officers  each 
represented  more  than  10  per  cent  (D'Antoni  and  Savage  2009,  p.  162). 

This  large  international  community  remained  very  active  for  almost  four 
years.  The  organisation  of  the  interaction,  and  the  software  support  chosen  to 
support  the  community,  took  into  consideration  especially  those  with  difficult 
or  expensive  connectivity.  A series  of  short  structured  seminar-like  discussions 
on  specific  topics  kept  the  community  discussion  moving  forward,  but  allowed 
a period  of  quiet  after  each  session.  Documentation  was  shared  systematically: 
succinct  background  documents  informed  interaction  facilitated  by  expert 
discussants,  and  summary  reports  captured  the  main  points  as  a record  for  others 
(all  accessible  on  the  International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning  [IIEP] 
website:  http://oerwiki.iiep-unesco.org/). 


135 


The  community  assembled  many  OER  leaders  as  well  as  those  who  wanted  to 
learn  about  OER,  and  interaction  was  often  intense.  The  strong  engagement  of 
the  community  made  it  an  ideal  group  to  reflect  on  what  should  be  the  priorities 
for  advancing  the  OER  movement.  Those  priorities  identified  were  (D’Antoni  and 
Savage  2009,  p.  163): 

To  advance  the  OER  movement 

• Awareness  raising 

• Communities  and  networking 

To  enable  creation  and  use 

• Developing  capacity 

• Quality  assurance 

To  remove  barriers 

• Sustainability 

• Copyright  and  licensing 

Until  the  end  of  the  activity  in  late  2009,  the  interaction  in  the  community  was 
unflagging,  and  was  recognised  by  an  award  — the  2008  Leadership  Award  of  the 
MERLOT  African  Network. 

It  is  clear  that  a movement  that  aims  at  worldwide  impact,  such  as  the  OER 
movement,  can  be  strengthened  through  such  international  awareness  raising, 
dialogue,  networking  and  collaboration.  UNESCO  now  supports  information 
exchange  on  OER  through  one  of  its  WSIS  Knowledge  Communities  (WISIS 
fn.d.]).  And  two  UNESCO  Chairs  were  awarded  in  2010:  a UNESCO/COL  Chair  in 
OER  to  Athabasca  University  in  Canada  and  a UNESCO  Chair  in  OER  to  the  Open 
Universiteit  of  the  Netherlands.  UNESCO  Chairs  act  as  think-tank  facilitators  and 
bridge  builders,  and  function  with  a network  of  partners.  To  build  on  the  early 
work  of  the  IIEP  OER  Community  and  contribute  to  building  an  international 
OER  Network,  the  current  plan  of  action  for  the  two  Chairs  focuses  on  four  main 
lines  of  action:  a global  OER  graduate  school;  an  OER  Knowledge  Cloud  and 
publication;  an  exploration  of  the  feasibility  of  a collaborative  mapping  of  OER 
initiatives  worldwide;  and  the  geographic  extension  of  the  network  of  Chairs  to 
achieve  a global  balance. 


Sharing  Knowledge 

“To  remain  human  and  liveable,  knowledge  societies  will  have  to  be 

societies  of  shared  knowledge.”  (UNESCO  2005,  p.  5) 

The  knowledge  sharing  that  is  the  goal  of  the  Open  Educational  Resources 
movement  needs  to  be  global  if  the  vision  stated  at  the  beginning  of  the  chapter 
is  to  be  realised  — that  the  world’s  knowledge  is  a public  good  to  be  shared.  At 
the  inception  of  the  movement,  much  of  the  development  was  in  English  and  in 
the  Northern  Hemisphere,  but  cultural  hegemony  has  no  part  in  that  vision.  The 
concept  of  the  library  may  still  serve  to  make  the  vision  clear.  According  to  one's 
needs  and  interests,  one  selects  or  ignores  what  is  on  the  shelves,  be  they  physical 
or  virtual  as  in  the  case  of  the  Web  and  OER.  What  is  most  important  is  that  the 
world’s  knowledge  be  represented  on  those  shelves:  that  all  nations,  cultures  and 


136 


linguistic  groups  contribute.  And  with  such  global  engagement,  the  Web  offers 
the  possibility  once  again  of  the  dream  of  a universal  library. 

Knowledge  societies  must  strive  to  be  inclusive  if  they  are  to  further  the  well- 
being of  all  their  citizens.  The  Constitution  of  UNESCO  proposes  full  and  equal 
opportunities  for  education  for  all,  the  unrestricted  pursuit  of  objective  truth 
and  the  free  exchange  of  ideas  and  knowledge.  This  is  what  we  must  all  strive 
for.  The  frustration  and  fury  of  the  excluded  — like  the  woman  denied  access 
to  a university  library  — is  palpable  in  the  words  below,  and  speaks  for  all  those 
who  seek  access  to  knowledge  and  seek  to  learn,  whether  in  formal  or  informal 
situations. 

“Venerable  and  calm,  with  all  its  treasures  safe  locked  within  its 
breast,  it  [the  library]  sleeps  complacently  and  will,  so  far  as  I am 
concerned,  so  sleep  for  ever.  Never  will  I wake  those  echoes,  never 
will  I ask  for  that  hospitality  again,  I vowed  as  I descended  the  steps  in 
anger.”  (Woolf  1993,  p.  7) 

The  challenges  of  making  education  available  to  all  and  building  knowledge 
societies  links  back  to  the  reflection  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter  on  the 
concept  of  the  universal  library. 

But  as  Manguel  (2006)  reminds  us,  the  Library  of  Alexandria  was  set  up  to  do  more 
than  merely  immortalise.  It  was  to  record  everything  that  had  been  and  could  be 
recorded,  and  these  records  were  to  be  digested  into  further  records,  an  endless 
trail  of  readings  and  glosses  that  would  in  turn  engender  new  glosses  and  new 
readings. 

This  surely  describes  Open  Educational  Resources  — resources  that  are  to  be 
shared,  built  upon,  reshaped,  repurposed  — and  then  returned  to  the  commons  to 
be  available  for  the  same  exercise  to  take  place  over  again. 


Conclusion 

The  red  thread  of  my  experience  has  lead  through  increasingly  interesting 
endeavours  and  career  opportunities  in  a diverse  range  of  institutions,  with 
many  wonderful  individuals.  What  1 retain  from  this  is  a sense  of  optimism  and 
continuing  renewal  as  we  seek  to  improve  — and  that  knowledge  is  at  the  base 
of  this  improvement.  Of  the  issues  on  which  I have  worked,  Open  Educational 
Resources  proved  to  be  the  most  stimulating  and  engaging.  Perhaps  this  is  so 
because  so  many  threads  of  personal  and  professional  experience  came  together, 
but  more  because  of  the  inherent  pleasure  one  has  when  working  on  something 
that  aims  to  contribute  to  the  common  good. 

David  Johnston,  Governor  General  of  Canada  (and  Chair  of  the  Board  of  Directors 
of  the  Association  of  Universities  and  Colleges  of  Canada  at  the  time  I came 
to  work  there),  has  written  about  “the  diplomacy  of  knowledge,”  defining  the 
concept  as  our  ability  and  willingness  to  work  together  and  share  our  learning 
across  disciplines  and  borders.  “Aristotle  once  said,  All  men  by  nature  design 
to  know.’  Today  we  can  perhaps  recast  this  statement  for  the  21st  century, 
envisioning  a world  in  which  all  nations  are  eager  to  know  and  share  their 
learning”  (Johnston  2012,  p.  A15). 

Open  Educational  Resources  will  contribute  to  this  vision. 


137 


References 

Brown,  J.S.  (2000).  “Growing  Up  Digital.”  Change  38(2):  11-20. 

Daniel,  J.  (2009).  “Internationalization,  Regionalization  and  Globalization: 
Breaking  Out  of  the  Iron  Triangle.”  Speech  to  the  UNESCO  World 
Conference  on  Higher  Education,  UNESCO,  Paris,  6 July  2009. 
(PowerPoint  Slides).  Retrieved  from:  www.col.org/resources/ 
speeches/2009presentation/Pages/2009-07-06.aspx 

D’Antoni,  S.  (2005).  “Personal  Communication  from  Participant  of  the  UNESCO 
International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning.”  Discussion  forum: 
Open  Educational  Resources:  Open  Content  for  Higher  Education,  24 
October  to  2 December  2005. 

D'Antoni,  S.  and  Savage,  C.  (eds.).  2009.  Open  Educational  Resources:  Conversation  in 
Cyberspace.  UNESCO:  Paris. 

Gourley,  B.  (2004).  “Moving  Open  and  Distance  Learning  to  Centre  Stage.”  The 
Geoffrey  Hubbard  Memorial  Lecture  2004.  National  Extension  College: 
Cambridge. 

Henry,  G.  (2004).  “Connexions:  An  Alternative  Approach  to  Publishing.”  [lecture 
notes]  In  Computer  Science  (3232).  Research  and  Advanced  Technology  for 
Digital  Libraries,  pp.  421-431.  Retrieved  from:  www.springerlink.com/ 
content/cxhfcqe4awy2k6jh/ 

International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning  (IIEP)  (2006).  The  Virtual 

University:  Open  Educational  Resources.  Retrieved  from:  www.unesco.org/ 
iiep/virtualuniversity/forumshome.php?queryforums_id=3 

Johnston,  D.  (2012,  February  12).  “The  Diplomacy  of  Knowledge.”  The  Globe  and 
Mail,  p.  A15. 

Manguel,  A.  (2006).  The  Library  at  Night.  Knopf  Canada:  Toronto. 

Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  (MIT)  (2011).  “MIT  Launches  Online 

Learning  Initiative.”  Retrieved  from:  http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2011/ 
mitx-education-initiative-1219.html 

OpenCourseWare  [n.d.].  What's  New  on  OCW.  Retrieved  from:  http://ocw.mit.edu/ 
about/next-decade/ 

OpenCourseWare  Consortium  [n.d.].  About  Us.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
ocwconsortium.org/en/aboutus/abouttheocwc 

Open  University  (2009a).  “About  OpenLearn.”  Retrieved  from:  www.open.edu/ 
openlearn/about-openlearn/about-openlearn-old 

Open  University  (2009b).  “About  the  OU:  History  of  the  OU.”  Retrieved  11  August 
2009  from:  www.open.ac.uk/about/ou/p3.shtml 

Perry,  W.L.  (1988).  Open  University.  Open  University  Press:  Milton  Keynes. 

Smith,  M.S.  and  Casserly,  C.M.  (2006).  “The  Promise  of  Open  Educational 
Resources.”  Change  38(5):  8-17. 


138 


Thille,  C.  (2009).  “Building  Open  Learning  as  a Community-Based  Research 

Activity.”  In  Opening  Up  Education:  The  Collective  Advancement  of  Education 
Through  Open  Technology,  Open  Content,  and  Open  Knowledge.  Iyoshi,  T.  and 
Kumar,  M.S.V.  (eds.).  MIT  Press:  Cambridge,  pp.  165-179. 

William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation.  (2002).  Strategic  Plan:  Education  Program, 
November  2002.  Retrieved  from:  http://opencourse.org/Collaboratories/ 
occollab/files/strategicdirections 

William  and  Flora  Hewlett  Foundation  [n.d.].  Open  Education  Resources.  Retrieved 
from:  www.hewlett.org/programs/education-program/open-educational- 
resources/ 

World  Bank.  (2011).  Learning  for  All:  Investing  in  People's  Knowledge  and  Skills  to 
Promote  Development.  World  Bank:  Washington. 

World  Bank  [n.d.].  Education  for  All  (EFA).  Retrieved  from:  www.worldbank.org/ 
education/efa 

UNESCO  (2000).  “UNESCO  Promotes  New  Initiative  for  Free  Educational 

Resources  on  the  Internet.”  Education  News,  July  8.  Retrieved  from:  www. 
unesco.org/education/news_en/080702_free_edu_ress.shtml 

UNESCO  (2002).  “Forum  on  the  Impact  of  Open  Courseware  for  Higher  Education 
in  Developing  Countries.”  Final  report.  Retrieved  from:  www.wcet.info/ 
resources/publications/unescofinalreport.pdf 

UNESCO  (2005).  Towards  Knowledge  Societies.  UNESCO  World  Report.  Paris 

UNESCO  (2011a).  Global  Education  Digest  2011:  Comparing  Education  Statistics 
Across  the  World.  Paris. 

UNESCO  (2011b).  Focus  on  Secondary  Education.  UNESCO  Institute  for  Statistics: 
Montreal. 

United  Nations  (1948).  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Retrieved  from: 
www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.  shtml#atop 

World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society  (WSIS)  [n.d.].  “Knowledge 
Communities.”  Retrieved  from:  www.wsis-community.org/pg/ 
groups/14358/open-educational-resources-oer/ 

WikiEducator  (2011).  “Logic  Model  OER  University.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
wikieducator.org/OER_university/Logic_model 

Woolf,  V.  (1993).  A Room  of  One’s  Own/Three  Guineas.  First  published  1929, 1938. 
Penguin  Books:  Harmondsworth. 


139 


CHAPTER 


How  OER  Support  Lifelong 
Learning 


Andy  Lane, 

Open  University  UK 


Introduction 

The  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  movement  is  a little  over  ten  years  old  if 
we  take  the  launch  of  Connexions  (http://cnx.org)  from  Rice  University  in  1999 
and  the  launch  of  MIT  (Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology)  OpenCourseWare 
(MIT-OCW)  (http://ocw.mit.edu)  in  2001  as  the  earliest  seminal  moments  in  its 
history. 

Today  the  OER  movement  is  still  dominated  by  higher  education  institutions 
(HEIs)  publishing  their  own  resources,  as  witnessed  by  membership  of  the 
OpenCourseWare  Consortium  (www.ocwconsortium.org)  and  the  development 
of  the  OER  university  (http://wikieducator.org/OER_university/Home). 

Much  of  the  discussion  and  debate  about  the  potential  value  of  OER  has  centred 
on  the  benefits  of  OER  to  those  HEIs,  to  higher  education  teachers  and  to  higher 
education  students  (McAndrew  et  al.  2009;  Lane  2011;  Masterton  and  Wild  2011). 
Such  dominance  has  been  reinforced  by  the  more  recent  emergence  of  proprietary 
channels  for  the  publishing  of  openly  accessible,  if  not  always  openly  licensed, 
online  content  from  HEIs,  namely  iTunesU  and  YouTubeEDU. 

There  is  little  doubt  that  the  publication  of  open  educational  content  as  OER  by 
HEIs  is  generally  seen  as  one  way  of  providing  a glimpse  of  the  education  to  be  had 
at  that  institution.  (I  use  the  term  “content”  to  distinguish  what  I mean  by  OER 
in  this  chapter  as  the  term  also  includes  software  tools.)  Such  content  provides 
a showcase  for  teachers  and  students  alike,  and  enables  both  to  variously  use 
such  resources  to  supplement  their  teaching  and  their  studies  respectively  (Lane 
2010;  [in  press]).  For  instance,  MIT-OCW  has  found  through  surveys  (MIT-OCW 
2006)  and  unsolicited  feedback  that  there  are  large  numbers  of  HEI  teachers  from 
around  the  world  who  use  their  OER,  and  even  larger  numbers  of  HEI  students 
and  self-learners  using  them  as  well  (http://ocw.mit. edu/about/ocw-stories/#self- 


141 


learners).  On  top  of  this,  many  recent  alumni  from  HEIs  are  also  using  such  OER 
as  refreshers  or  top-ups  for  their  previous  studies. 

The  interest  by  alumni  immediately  indicates  that  higher  education  OER  are  not 
just  useful  for  studying  by  people  while  registered  at  an  EIEI  for  an  undergraduate  or 
postgraduate  qualification,  but  also  for  study  by  people  throughout  their  working 
lives.  However,  while  prospective,  registered  and  past  higher  education  students  will 
inevitably  be  interested  in  higher  education  OER,  the  very  openness  of  OER  means 
that  they  can  be  used  by  more  than  just  this  already  highly  educated  group  in 
society:  they  can  also  be  used  for  more  interest-driven  informal  learning  or  career- 
driven  non-formal  learning  at  a time  and  place  when  it  is  needed  or  wanted. 

The  value  of  OER  to  lifelong  learning  is  possibly  less  clear  than  it  might  be 
assumed  to  be  for  formal  higher  education  study,  but  there  is  growing  evidence 
of  what  it  might  be.  A significant  issue  is  that  it  is  not  easy  to  know  who  exactly 
is  looking  at  something  online  and  for  what  reason  and  what  they  might  do  with 
that  information  offline,  which  probably  explains  the  dearth  of  papers  and  studies 
in  learners’  use  of  online  — let  alone  openly  licensed  — educational  resources,  as 
noted  by  Bacsich  et  al.  (2011). 


Lifelong  Learning 

There  is  no  commonly  agreed  definition  of  lifelong  learning  (see,  for  example, 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lifelong_learning).  However,  the  main  sentiment  is 
that  it  represents  the  learning  that  occurs  continuously  throughout  life  whether 
that  be  in  mainly  cohort-based,  formally  accredited  education  at  primary, 
secondary  and  tertiary  levels;  through  group-based,  non-formal,  non-accredited 
training,  development  and  mentoring  within  the  workplace  or  adult  education 
classes;  or  through  the  informal  learning  that  people  do  by  themselves. 

This  certainly  includes  HEIs  as  noted  in,  for  example,  the  European  Universities' 
Charter  on  Lifelong  Learning  (EUA  2008)  which  asks  universities  to  commit 
to,  amongst  other  things,  embedding  concepts  of  widening  access  and  lifelong 
learning  in  their  institutional  strategies,  providing  education  and  learning  to  a 
diversified  student  population  and  adapting  study  programmes  to  ensure  that 
they  are  designed  to  widen  participation  and  attract  returning  adult  learners. 

The  Charter  also  asks  governments  to  commit  to  recognising  the  university 
contribution  to  lifelong  learning  as  a major  benefit  to  both  individuals  and  society 
and  promoting  social  equity  and  an  inclusive  learning  society. 

However,  because  lifelong  learning  is  an  all-encompassing  term  and  can  involve 
more  than  just  HEIs,  it  is  better  to  focus  not  on  the  definitions  per  se  but  on  the 
perspectives  of  those  learners. 


The  Lifelong  Needs  of  Learners 

Learning  is  not  an  amorphous  undifferentiated  activity.  Learning  can  be  for  many 
purposes  and  with  different  intensities.  One  way  to  look  at  learning  is  to  note  that 
it  can  be  about: 

• Learning  to  know  - to  be  able  to  recall  information  and  knowledge  about 
something  and  to  understand  how  it  is  organised  and  connected  — in  other 
words,  largely  a cognitive  dimension. 

142 


• Learning  to  do  - to  develop  and  master  a practical  skill  or  talent  through 
regular  and  repeated  practice.  This  favours  a kinesthetic  dimension  to 
learning. 

• Learning  to  be  - to  be  able  to  deploy  a defined  set  of  cognitive  and 
kinesthetic  practices  and,  particularly,  to  perform  in  a given  work  role  or 
as  a professional.  (Of  course  this  can  also  refer  to  learning  to  “be  yourself” 
in  general,  not  just  a particular  role  you  may  play  in  society,  but  here  I am 
focusing  on  the  latter.)  This  is  a behavioural  outcome. 

Any  individual  person  only  spends  a minority  of  his  or  her  life  in  formal 
education,  so  it  is  inevitable  that  more  learning  can  potentially  take  place  in  non- 
formal  and  informal  ways  throughout  the  rest  of  their  lives.  The  consequence 
of  that  is  that  individuals  have,  in  principle,  more  time  to  organise  their  own 
learning  rather  than  have  it  organised  for  them.  The  obverse  is  that  so  much 
choice  of  resources  can  make  it  difficult  for  learners  to  understand  what  may 
be  useful  and  how  to  get  the  most  from  them.  In  this  case,  OER  can  add  to  the 
already  rich  and  diverse  landscape  of  self-organised  possibilities,  as  well  as  offer 
opportunities  for  the  organisers  of  non-formal  learning  activities. 


What  Can  OER  Offer  Lifelong  Learners? 

One  way  to  answer  this  question  is  to  examine  what  the  provision  of  closed 
educational  resources  offers  lifelong  learners  first,  before  looking  at  what  different 
types  of  openness  in  educational  resources  offer  lifelong  learners.  For  higher 
education  resources,  only  those  written  by  academics  and  published  by  academic 
publishers  are  widely  available  to  lifelong  learners.  There  are  public  engagement 
events  such  as  public  lectures,  which  those  living  near  an  HEI  can  access,  but 
often  the  exposure  to  the  resources  is  ephemeral  and  only  possible  at  the  event 
itself.  So,  often  closed  educational  resources  have  come  at  a price  (“buy  the 
textbook”)  unless  a free-to-borrow  copy  is  available  from  a library  or  friend. 

Also,  while  some  of  these  closed  resources  are  written  as  a textbook  for  higher 
education  students  to  use,  it  does  not  mean  that  the  resource  has  been  designed 
and  structured  to  be  a self-learning  resource  with  pedagogic  elements  (such  as 
in-text  questions  and  activities;  large  numbers  of  illustrations;  use  of  boxes  to 
explain  difficult  concepts)  or  with  guidance  on  how  it  is  to  be  studied  by  a novice 
independent  learner.  (In  an  HEI  the  teachers  provide  direction  and  scaffolding  on 
how  such  textbooks  are  to  be  studied.)  Furthermore,  these  analogue  resources  are 
often  substantive  in  size  (textbooks  of  hundreds  of  pages)  and  not  easy  to  access  in 
smaller  chunks  (individual  chapters). 

As  broadcasting  technologies  have  become  widespread,  educational  programmes 
have  been  produced  for  radio  and  television,  often  involving  teaching  staff 
from  HEIs  as  advisers  or  presenters.  Initially  these  were  ephemeral  broadcast 
to  air  events,  like  public  lectures,  but  for  much  greater  audiences  than  those 
public  lectures.  Gradually  there  has  been  greater  sophistication  in  the  formats 
of  those  programmes  and  in  the  ability  for  people  to  record  and  use  such 
programmes  many  times  over  if  they  so  wished.  Such  technologies  also  became 
part  of  the  educational  offering  from  distance  teaching  universities  such  as 
the  Open  University  UK  (Lane  and  Law  2011).  While  the  granularity  of  these 
programmes  is  much  smaller  than  that  of  published  textbooks,  the  programmes 


143 


can  be  very  popular,  with  users  numbered  in  millions.  However,  the  density  of 
information  and  capacity  for  moving  beyond  learning  to  know  is  still  limited 
by  this  broadcast  medium.  So,  they  are  mostly  used  as  a supplement  to  other 
educational  resources  within  formal  courses  rather  than  being  the  main  mode  of 
instruction. 

The  emergence  and  widespread  adoption  in  recent  years  of  information 
and  communication  technologies  (ICTs)  — devices  such  as  computers  and 
infrastructure  such  as  the  Internet  — has  meant  that  more  academic  research 
papers  and  other  educational  resources  have  become  more  available,  accessible, 
affordable  and  acceptable  to  lifelong  learners  (Lane  [in  press]).  Open  access 
publications  in  open  access  journals;  online  digital  collections  from  museums, 
libraries  and  archives;  the  informational  or  educational  products  of  many 
organisations  and  other  projects;  social  media  sites  and  personal  blogs  — all  of 
these  have  greatly  increased  the  number  of  websites  that  contain  potentially 
relevant  material  for  learning.  Most  of  these  resources  are  openly  accessible, 
but  are  still  fully  copyrighted  (and  can  therefore  not  legitimately  be  copied  or 
downloaded),  while  more  and  more  are  also  openly  licensed  (which  variously  can 
allow  for  repurposing  as  well  as  copying  and  downloading). 

The  question  then  becomes:  does  it  matter  to  a lifelong  learner  if  an  educational 
resource  is  openly  licensed  rather  than  just  openly  accessible?  In  practical  terms, 
there  is  often  little  difference.  To  study  a resource,  a learner  may  want  to  be  able 
to  both  access  it  online  and  download  it  for  later  use.  Some  may  want  to  share 
it  with  others  or  copy  it,  but  very  few  will  want  to  modify  it  in  some  way.  In 
principle,  fully  copyrighted  material  can  only  be  accessed  online  and  should  not 
be  downloaded,  copied  or  shared  unless  there  are  statements  on  the  host  website 
saying  that  is  permissible.  In  practice,  whether  fully  accessible  or  requiring 
onsite  registration  first,  any  online  resource  can  be  and  will  be  downloaded  or 
copied  for  that  person's  use  if  that  is  what  he  or  she  prefers  to  do.  Copyright 
holders  do  not  tend  to  go  after  individual  transgressors  of  copyright,  but  they  do 
sue  sites  or  individuals  who  indulge  in  the  mass  downloading  or  sharing  of  such 
content  with  many  other  users.  Custom  and  practice  for  most  people  on  the 
Internet  is  to  copy  or  download.  While  sometimes  illegal,  it  is  an  understandable 
response  and  I liken  it  to  a bookshop  putting  its  books  outside  on  the  street 
unattended  and  the  owner  then  complaining  about  passers-by  standing  around 
and  reading  them. 

Before  looking  more  specifically  at  examples  of  how  OER  are  being  used  for 
lifelong  learning,  let  us  return  to  the  issue  of  size  and  complexity  of  OER  and 
what  HEIs  should  be  providing  in  terms  of  lifelong  learning.  Weller  (2010)  has 
coined  the  terms  “big  OER”  and  “little  OER.”  While  this  is  more  concerned  with 
how  the  size  and  complexity  of  an  OER  influences  its  re-use  by  other  teachers, 
that  size  and  complexity  will  also  influence  how  learners  use  it.  Many  learners 
prefer  or  require  a structured  learning  experience  put  together  by  a teacher  of 
some  kind.  A single  image,  which  is  of  value  to  the  teacher,  may  not  be  to  the 
learner  until  it  is  mixed  in  with  other  material.  So,  self-organised  study  will 
benefit  greatly  if  the  OER  has  a pedagogic  structure  built  in  to  help  guide  the 
learning.  In  more  organised  non-formal  settings,  study  will  benefit  from  the 
guidance  of  the  teacher  or  trainer  and  from  the  interactions  of  other  learners 
in  the  group.  However,  for  HEIs,  most  pedagogical  models  rely  on  providing  a 


144 


collection  of  resources,  which  the  teacher  has  selected  and  which  the  teacher 
then  provides  some  guidance  on  use. 

When  this  model  is  translated  into  OER,  as  in  the  OpenCourseWare  model 
pioneered  by  MIT,  then  it  has  been  found  to  be  suitable  for  confident  learners 
already  used  to  higher  education  study,  but  less  so  for  other  people  with  lower 
levels  of  educational  attainment.  This  is  in  contrast  to  the  self-study  materials 
from  the  Open  University,  which  are  designed  for  independent  use  but  cost  much 
more  to  develop.  MIT  has  begun  producing  open  courses  in  a more  open  and 
distance  learning  form,  but  the  costs  are  high  and  the  courses  may  not  fully  reflect 
the  educational  resources  that  actual  students  use. 

Interestingly,  the  biggest  growth  area  in  quantity  and  use  of  OER  has  been  in 
video  lectures  or  podcasting  by  academics,  mimicking  the  traditional  mode  of 
teaching  in  HEIs.  However,  these  OER  suffer  from  the  same  issue  noted  above  of 
not  being  a medium  for  delivering  the  most  effective  learning  experiences  on 
their  own  (Lane  and  Law  2011).  Paradoxically,  the  conclusion  seems  to  be  that  the 
relevance  of  OER  for  lifelong  learning  depends  on  the  aim  of  the  developer:  the 
more  structured  the  material,  the  more  useful  for  the  lifelong  learner,  but  the  less 
useful  for  re-use  by  teachers  or  other  developers. 

OER  for  Personal  Interest  Learning 

The  most  obvious  use  of  OER  by  lifelong  learners  is  for  their  own  personal 
interest,  which  may  or  may  not  lead  on  to  more  formal  study  of  some  kind.  The 
Open  University  has  had  numerous  responses  and  feedback  to  its  own  OER  site 
OpenLearn  (www.open.ac.uk/openlearn),  including  the  following. 

“I've  been  in  the  I.T./Electronics  industry  for  nearly  20  years,  but 
although  I have  certain  formal  qualifications,  I've  never  had  time  to 
do  my  degree....  [UJsing  OpenLearn  takes  me  one  step  closer  to  that 
goal  by  allowing  me  to  “dip  my  toe  in  the  water”  where  studying  is 
concerned.” 

“I  have  now  retired  and  I am  thinking  about  enrolling  on  a course. 

I obtained  my  post-graduate  degrees  30  years  ago  and  I find  the 
OpenLearn  courses  useful  for  two  reasons.  The  first  is  to  see  if  I can 
regain  the  skills  and  discipline  needed  for  formal  study.  The  second  is 
that  it  is  helping  to  identify  the  areas  of  study  I wish  to  pursue.” 

“I  have  used  OpenLearn  to  aid  me  in  both  my  work  and  for  my 
studies,  each  time  finding  the  units  very  useful.” 

In  fact  the  way  many  people  like  to  mix  informal  and  formal  studies  in  a 
complex  profile  of  activities  was  one  of  the  significant  findings  reported  by 
McAndrew  et  al.  (2009)  about  OpenLearn.  Thus,  prospective  students  “try 
before  they  buy,”  looking  at  study  units  on  OpenLearn  before  signing  up  for  the 
parent  Open  University  module  or  for  a module  at  another  HEI.  Actual  students 
(not  just  from  the  Open  University)  often  dip  into  study  units  that  enrich  their 
formal  studies  or  for  modules  they  would  like  to  have  studied  but  cannot  fit 
into  their  degree  pathway.  Many  others  are  happy  just  working  through  what 
interests  them  on  OpenLearn  with  no  intention  of  signing  up  for  a formal 
course  or  programme. 


145 


OER  for  Personal  or  Professional  Development 

Another  significant  change  is  the  greater  recognition  of  non-formal  and 
informal  learning  achieved  through  OER  that  can  replace  or  supplement  the 
formal  learning  offered  by  existing  HEIs.  This  is  where  individuals  may  operate 
a personalised  portfolio  approach  to  their  post-secondary  education,  picking  up 
formal  bits  of  education  from  different  providers  and  mixing  it  with  non-formal 
learning  experiences  and  expecting  recognition  of  their  achievements  to  come 
from  trustworthy  professional  organisations  (e.g.,  universities,  professional 
associations  and/or  peer  review  by  a trustworthy  community  of  people  working/ 
active  in  the  same  field  as  they  are).  In  other  words,  open  education  opens  up 
not  only  who  produces  the  “content”  and  the  “context”  in  which  the  content  is 
learned,  but  also  who  validates  that  learning  so  that  it  has  currency  in  the  labour 
and/or  interest  markets.  This  is  beginning  to  be  seen  in  recent  developments  in 
free  courses  (through,  for  instance,  the  Peer  2 Peer  University  [http://p2pu.org/ 
en/])  and  through  novel  recognition  schemes  such  as  Mozilla  open  badges  (http:// 
openbadges.org/). 

McAndrew  et  al.  (2009)  also  reported  on  how  a proportion  of  OpenLearn 
users  were  interested  in  ways  to  gain  credit  for  their  informal  learning,  and 
on  how  groups  could  use  it  for  professional  development  as  noted  in  Case  1 
below. 

Case  1:  Aidan  Hobson,  New  Zealand  Cricket  Players  Association 

“100  players  each  year  participate  in  a leadership  program 
focusing  on  skills  that  are  linked  to  high  performance  sport  such 
as  communication,  self-management/reflection,  motivation  and 
teamwork.  One  of  the  major  challenges  in  designing  the  program  is 
finding  learning  materials  that  are  not  too  high  brow  but  have  a good 
level  of  QA,  relevancy,  structure,  and  fit  our  budget.  Of  the  hundreds 
of  websites  I’ve  looked  at,  OpenLearn  was  the  only  one  that  provided 
a good  range  of  topics  that  would  allow  players  to  take  up  study  in 
areas  of  personal  interest  or  skills  development.  While  there  is  a 
lot  of  free  information  on  the  web,  it  is  lightweight.  We  also  have  a 
business  mentoring  program  for  players  to  learn  about  different  career 
pathways  and  the  workplace  generally,  supporting  them  for  careers 
after  sport.  Given  the  diversity  of  players’  interests  and  learning  styles 
and  the  fact  most  players  are  away  from  home  seven  months  of  the 
year  on  tour  or  in  the  UK  playing  in  the  off-season,  we  have  explored 
other,  more  informal  ways  for  them  to  build  their  knowledge.  So 
OpenLearn  fits  a number  of  needs  of  informal,  self-directed  learning. 

It  is  structured  and  quality  assured  but  very  flexible.  Because  of  their 
time  commitments,  the  players  cannot  attend  classes  or  keep  up  to 
date  with  the  assessment  requirements  of  formal  online  learning 
programs.  Many  of  the  players  don’t  have  any  positive  academic 
learning  experiences,  so  it  is  great  for  them  to  access  knowledge 
without  someone  looking  at  their  grades,  without  the  pressure  of 
them  doing  assignments.” 


146 


OER  for  Enriching  More  Formal  Adult  Learning 

It  is  not  only  professional  groups  that  may  organise  their  own  learning.  Most 
learning  opportunities  for  later  life  learners  are  local,  face-to-face  and  geared 
to  interests  rather  than  employment  needs.  It  is  believed  that  OER  can  provide 
more  permanent  learning  events  and  enable  distributed  learning  communities 
to  happen,  but  it  is  also  thought  that  access  to  ICTs,  the  accessibility  of  the  OER 
and  unfamiliarity  with  such  technologies  are  major  barriers  for  later-life  learners, 
among  others  (Lane  2008).  Case  2 below  describes  how  one  such  group  can 
benefit  from  OER  available  on  OpenLearn. 

Case  2:  The  University  of  the  Third  Age,  United  Kingdom 

“The  University  of  the  Third  Age  (U3A)  is  a worldwide  movement 
encouraging  older  people  in  the  third  age  of  life  (i.e.,  those  no  longer 
in  full-time  gainful  employment)  to  take  up  or  continue  educational 
interests  in  friendly  and  informal  local  settings.  The  collaboration 
started  as  a result  of  joint  interest  in  exploiting  OpenLearn  for  U3A 
members  and  as  a result  of  signing  a memorandum  of  understanding 
with  the  Open  University.  The  main  goal  of  the  collaboration  has 
been  to  assist  U3A  to  adopt  OpenLearn  units  and  social  computing 
tools  such  as  Learning  Clubs  for  the  benefit  of  all  their  members  but 
especially  those  already  taking  online  courses.  The  challenge  is  that 
they  are  a voluntary  group  and  it  takes  time  for  the  senior  members 
to  identify  and  progress  their  involvement  with  OpenLearn.  It  can 
take  a long  time  to  develop  an  active  relationship  with  collaborators, 
especially  where  new  technology  is  involved.” 

furthermore,  the  capabilities  of  Web  2.0  technologies  mean  that  this  lifelong 
learning  can  also  be  truly  international  or  global  in  scope  and  not  just  locally 
organised,  with  the  content  and  services  coming  from  different  countries  as 
well  as  the  peer  group  an  individual  may  be  studying  with.  This  has  been  seen 
recently  with  the  development  of  the  idea  and  practice  of  open  courses.  In  some 
cases,  an  open  course  is  developed  in  the  open  by  some  teachers  but  with  the 
input  of  students.  In  this  way,  students  can  learn  by  co-creating  the  course  and 
the  educational  resources  are  open  for  all  to  see.  In  other  cases,  a course  may 
include  OER  as  the  educational  resources,  but  the  course  is  delivered  in  the  open 
with  a mix  of  formal,  registered  students  studying  for  credit  and  informal  course- 
followers  studying  for  interest.  These  Massive  Open  Online  Courses  (MOOCS), 
such  as  the  course  on  Connectivism  and  Connective  Knowledge  from  Athabasca 
University  (fini  2009),  blur  yet  further  the  assumed  roles  of  teachers  and  students 
and  the  context  in  which  studying  takes  place,  opening  up  HEIs  in  new  ways. 
Openness  does  not  just  exist  in  formally  accredited  HEIs,  though,  and  there  are 
some  emerging  community-based  operations  on  the  Web  such  as  the  Peer  2 Peer 
University  (Thierstein  et  al.  2009).  However,  there  are  still  many  issues  around 
whether  many  people  may  be  excluded  from  any  such  opportunities  (Lane  2008). 

OER  for  Workforce  Training 

So,  if  communities  can  organise  their  own  learning,  what  kind  of  community 
is  needed  in  order  to  build,  leverage  and  take  advantage  of  OER  and  for  what 
purposes? 


147 


I have  already  touched  on  this  earlier,  but  communities  basically  need  to  be 
self-organising  and  -sustaining  without  continued  third-party  involvement 
a la  Wikipedia,  eBay  and  Flickr.  That  does  not  mean  there  is  not  some  type  of 
organising  body,  but  it  is  one  that  manages  the  environment  in  which  the  many 
communities  can  collaborate.  Communities  for  open  education  could  be  of 
individuals,  institutions  and  voluntary  groups.  A successful  community  will  most 
likely  be  a community  of  interest  around  a topic,  discipline  or  issue,  but  some 
may  be  construed  as  communities  of  practice  where  it  involves  professional  or 
semi-professional  practitioners,  such  as  that  shown  in  Case  3.  Some  professional 
or  semi-professional  input  is  often  needed  to  get  open  education  started,  but  it 
should  be  the  communities  of  interest  that  dominate  in  the  long  term.  However, 
in  all  cases  a large  enough  community  of  users  is  needed. 

Case  3:  Meriel  Lee,  Assistant  Director,  Open  University  in  the  South  West  of 
England 

“The  South  West  Higher  Level  Skills  Pathfinder  Project  has  funded  a 
project  focusing  on  development  of  a learning  organization  within 
Plymouth  City  Council’s  Children’s  Services.  The  project  aims  to 
form  a model  for  adoption  by  other  Councils.  To  date,  OpenLearn 
has  been  used  to  generate  interest  in  higher  education  and  foster 
development  of  e-learning  skills.  Four  OpenLearn  workshops  have 
now  taken  place  and  been  evaluated.  It  has  become  apparent  that  for 
some  employees,  use  of  IT  presents  a real  challenge,  as  does  regular 
access  to  a computer  for  learning.  However,  the  workshops  have  raised 
confidence  and  motivation  for  e-learning  and  some  employees  are 
now  accessing  OpenLearn  units  for  self-development.  Some  staff 
indicated  that  they  have  no  current  interest  in  engaging  with  more 
formalised  courses,  but  find  OpenLearn  very  useful  for  learning. 

Foster  carers,  who  work  from  home,  find  the  units  useful  because  they 
can  study  from  home  at  a time  that  suits  them.  Relevant  OpenLearn 
units  have  been  identified  as  the  first  step  of  qualifications  escalators 
(currently  for  Children’s  Services,  Youth  Services  and  Management, 
with  potential  for  Foster  Care  and  other  social  care  workers).  Nine 
students  have  progressed  from  the  OpenLearn  workshops  to 
registration  on  four  of  the  OU’s  Openings  Program  courses,  with  a 
further  cohort  being  identified  for  the  June  Openings  start.” 


How  Will  Lifelong  Learners  Know  About  the  Quality  and 
Reliability  of  the  OER  They  Use? 

I have  already  noted  the  difficulties  of  self-organising  informal  or  non- 
formal  study  and  how  key  organisers  are  often  needed.  The  same  is  true  for 
the  selection  of  appropriate  resources  to  learn  from.  Currently,  the  quality 
of  any  particular  OER  is  most  often  defined  by  the  provider,  and  institutions 
like  MIT  and  the  Open  University  are  the  guarantors  through  their  normal 
quality  assurance  processes.  In  other  cases,  it  is  for  users  to  judge  the  academic 
or  educational  quality  for  themselves  and  whether  it  fits  their  need.  While 
this  may  be  difficult  for  a lay  individual  to  do,  the  judgements  of  specialist 
people  (as  in  Case  4 below)  or  the  views  of  large  numbers  of  people  using  rating 


148 


schemes  like  that  on  the  Amazon  website  for  books  could  provide  such  a service 
for  target  groups. 

Case  4:  Tony  Coughlan,  Resources  for  Charity  Trustees 

“I  began  this  Open  University  led  project  by  working  on  resources 
for  charity  trustees,  a priority  of  the  sector  skills  body  Skills-Third 
Sector  (www.skills-thirdsector.org.uk).  Ten  OpenLearn  study  units 
were  adapted  leaders  and  managers  of  small  charities,  voluntary 
and  community  organizations,  mapped  against  Elements  of  the 
National  Occupational  Standards  (NOS)  and  released  through  a small 
dedicated  area  on  OpenLearn’s  LabSpace  at  http://labspace.open. 
ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=449912&direct=l.  As  OpenLearn's 
LabSpace  is  not  really  designed  for  non-academics,  a small  dedicated 
CharityWise  website  was  also  created  to  act  as  a landing  page  for 
trustees,  and  the  adapted  study  units  can  also  be  accessed  from 
there:  www.open.ac.uk/blogs/CharityWise.  The  CharityWise  website 
includes  video  case  studies  about  trustees  of  three  small  and  medium 
sized  voluntary  organizations  in  the  South  West  of  England  who 
each  describe  the  approaches  they  are  taking  to  improving  their 
organization’s  effectiveness. 

“The  ten  adapted  OpenLearn  study  units  are  those  thought  to  be 
most  likely  to  be  of  interest  to  the  target  audience,  but  they  cannot 
hope  to  address  the  wide  training  needs  of  trustees,  so  the  project 
team  have  assessed  all  of  the  600+  study  units  in  OpenLearn  for  their 
relevance  to  the  voluntary  sector.  We  then  tagged  63  study  units  that 
might  be  useful  to  trustees  with  a Trustee_Development  tag  (http:// 
openlearn.open.ac.uk/tag/index.php?id=16439)  and  tagged  130 
study  units  that  might  be  of  more  general  use  to  the  voluntary  sector 
with  a CharityWise  tag  (http://openlearn.open.ac.uk/tag/index. 
php?id=16432).  In  both  cases,  the  intention  is  to  aid  discovery  by 
making  relevant  study  units  easier  to  find,  and  our  two  terms  now 
appear  quite  prominently  in  the  OpenLearn  tag  cloud.” 

Many  people  involved  in  the  OER  movement  are  looking  at  the  different  ways 
in  which  quality  could  be  determined  for  users,  especially  resources  developed 
by  individuals  or  groups  of  people  who  are  not  part  of  an  institutional  initiative. 
Two  examples  of  this  are  the  non-institution-based  MERLOT  and  Connexions 
collections  of  OER.  In  the  former  case,  they  are  using  a traditional  peer  review 
mechanism  often  before  publication  of  the  resource  (http://taste.merlot.org/ 
peerreviewprocess.html),  supplemented  by  user  comments  and  ratings  post- 
publication (although  actual  reviews  can  be  few  and  far  between).  In  the  latter 
case,  they  have  set  up  different  “lenses”  for  the  resources  to  be  judged  after 
publication  on  the  site  (http://cnx.org/news/LensesIntroduced).  They  have 
endorsement  lenses  for  material  reviewed  by  an  authoritative  body,  affiliation 
lenses  where  someone  from  an  institution  has  created  content  but  not  necessarily 
had  it  reviewed;  and  members  list  lenses  where  registered  users  can  give  their 
views.  In  addition,  developments  such  as  the  OER  university  (OERu)  mean  that 
OER  that  is  useful  for  preparing  you  for  accreditation  comes  yet  again  with  the 
authority  of  the  HEI  that  developed  them,  while  open  badges  may  start  a whole 
system  of  user  rating  and  review  that  bypasses  HEIs. 


149 


Another  aspect  of  quality  is  cultural  or  contextual  relevance.  This  issue  of 
resources  being  localised  or  contextualised  to  the  needs  of  the  user  is  a common 
discussion  point  because  societies  and  cultures  do  differ  in  what  is  expected.  I 
have  already  noted  that  learners,  unlike  teachers,  are  not  going  to  want  to  put  the 
effort  into  contextualising  a resource  for  just  themselves.  Learners  who  directly 
study  an  OER  may  have  to  accept  that  it  has  been  developed  for  a different  setting 
to  the  one  they  are  in,  and  get  what  they  can  from  it  as  supplementary  study  for 
their  formal  studies  or  as  a non-formal  learning  opportunity,  as  I discussed  earlier. 


Conclusions 

There  is  little  doubt  that  many  people  around  the  world  are  accessing  or 
downloading  online  educational  resources.  The  Open  University  alone  has  had  over 
50  million  downloads  from  its  iTunesU  website  in  just  over  three  years  and  over  20 
million  unique  visitors  to  OpenLearn  over  five  years.  These  online  resources  are 
not  always  openly  licensed,  but  for  learners  that  often  will  make  little  difference  to 
whether  they  can  use  them  for  learning.  Paradoxically,  this  very  openness  makes  it 
very  difficult  to  track  informal  use  of  OER. 

Most  HEIs  do  not  readily  have  mechanisms  to  gather  informative  data  on  the 
impacts  of  OER  on  higher  education  study,  either  on  informal  learners  or  registered 
students.  Web  analytics  can  show  many  visitors  to  an  OER  but  not  indicate  whether 
they  learned  from  it  in  any  meaningful  way.  (For  instance,  while  the  OpenLearn 
website  has  had  over  20  million  unique  visitors  over  five  years,  only  a little  over 
200,000  have  registered  on  the  site  and  can  be  seen  as  being  potentially  active 
learners.  Many  of  the  others  might  be  as  well,  but  we  don’t  know  who  they  are 
because  they  can  simply  access  the  OER  through  a Web  browser.) 

We  can  track  referrals  from  an  OER  to  a student’s  registering,  but  not  whether  that 
registration  would  have  happened  anyway.  Experience  with  OpenLearn  is  that  up 
to  1,000  people  per  month  go  direct  from  it  to  register  on  a formal  taught  module, 
but  the  broad  characteristics  of  those  people  are  no  different  from  those  coming 
from  other  recorded  marketing  or  informational  channels,  with  two-thirds  being 
existing  students  anyway. 

Measuring  such  impacts  of  OER  is  very  challenging  and  the  subject  of  much 
debate  and  activity  because  engagement  by  learners  with  them  is  so  open  and 
difficult  to  track,  and  most  evidence  is  anecdotal  or  from  small  qualitative  studies 
(Masterton  and  Wild  2011). 

Whether  lifelong  learners  are  self-organised  or  within  community  or  professional 
groups,  it  seems  that  good  quality  educational  resources  from  HEIs  are  offering 
those  learners  new  learning  opportunities,  and  that  many  more  innovative  ways 
of  using  these  resources  are  emerging,  driven  by  the  needs  and  ideas  of  those 
lifelong  learners.  Supporting  lifelong  learning  is  often  a stated  goal  and  ambition 
of  many  local,  regional  and  national  governments,  although  often  there  are 
relatively  small  amounts  of  public  monies  directed  at  informal  adult  education 
unless  it  provides  direct  vocational  benefits.  As  most  OER  do  not  cost  the  lifelong 
learner  anything  beyond  Internet  access  costs,  these  resources  may  help  make  that 
limited  public  funding  go  further  and  contribute  to  the  underlying  philosophy 
of  open  education  unlocking  knowledge  for  all  and  empowering  more  people  to 
access  educational  opportunities  that  were  not  previously  available  or  accessible. 


150 


References 


Bacsich,  P.,  Phillips,  B.  and  Bristow,  S.  (2011).  “Learner  Use  of  Online  Educational 
Resources  for  Learning.”  Final  report.  Retrieved  from:  www.jisc.ac.uk/ 
media/documents/programs/elearning/oer/LUOERLfinalreport.docx 

EUA  (2008).  European  Universities'  Charter  on  Lifelong  Learning.  Retrieved  from: 
www.eua.be 

Fini,  A.  (2009).  “The  Technological  Dimension  of  a Massive  Open  Online  Course: 
The  Case  of  the  CCK08  Course  Tools.”  International  Review  of  Research  in 
Open  and  Distance  Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  from:  www.irrodl.org/index. 
php/irrodl/article/view/643/1402 

Lane,  A.  (2008).  “Am  I Good  Enough?  The  Mediated  Use  of  Open  Educational 
Resources  to  Empower  Learners  in  Excluded  Communities.”  In 
Proceedings  of  5th  Pan  Commonwealth  Forum  on  Open  and  Distance 
Learning,  13-17  July  2008,  London.  Available  from:  www.wikieducator. 
org/PCF5/Governance_and_social_justice 

Lane,  A.  (2010).  “Global  Trends  in  the  Development  and  Use  of  Open  Educational 
Resources  to  Reform  Educational  Practices.”  Commissioned  policy 
briefing  for  UNESCO  Institute  for  Information  Technologies  in  Education, 

2010.  Retrieved  from:  http://iite.unesco.org/policy_briefs/ 

Lane,  A.  (2011).  “Developing  Innovative  Systems  for  Supportive  Open  Teaching 
in  Higher  Education.”  Journal  for  the  Systemic  Innovation  of  Education  1(1): 
32-46.  Retrieved  from:  www.essie-society.org 

Lane,  A.  [in  press].  “Design  and  Development  of  OER:  A Student  Perspective.” 

Chapter  8 in  Perspectives  on  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  as  a Catalyst 
for  Educational  Change:  Case  Studies  and  Reflections  of  Practice.  Glennie, 

J.,  Harley,  K.  and  Van  Wyk,  T.  (eds.).  Commonwealth  of  Learning: 
Vancouver,  Canada. 

Lane,  A.  [in  press].  “A  Review  of  the  Role  of  National  Policy  and  Institutional 
Mission  in  European  Distance  Teaching  Universities  with  Respect  to 
Widening  Participation  in  Higher  Education  Study  Through  OER.” 
Distance  Education. 

Lane,  A.  and  Law,  A.  (2011).  “Sharing  and  Reusing  Rich  Media:  Lessons  from  the 

Open  University.”  Paper  presented  at  OCWC  Global  Conference,  4-6  May 

2011,  Boston,  MA.  Available  at:  http://oro.open.ac.uk/29199/ 

Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  - OpenCourseWare  (MIT-OCW)  (2006). 

“2005  Program  Evaluation  Findings  Report.”  Retrieved  from:  http://ocw. 
mit.edu/ans7870/global/05_Prog_Eval_Report_Final.pdf 

Masterton,  L.  and  Wild,  J.  (2011).  “OER  Impact  Study:  Research  Report,  JISC  Open 
Educational  Resources  Programme:  Phase  2.”  Retrieved  from:  www.tall. 
ox.ac.uk/research/past/OERImpact.php 

McAndrew,  P.,  Santos,  A.,  Lane,  A.,  Godwin.  P.,  Okada,  A.,  Wilson,  T.,  Connolly, 

T.,  Ferreira,  G.,  Buckingham-Shum,  S.,  Bretts,  J.  and  Webb,  R.  (2009). 
“OpenLearn  Research  Report  (2006-2008).”  The  Open  University,  ISBN 
0780749229252.  Retrieved  from:  http://oro.open.ac.uk/17513/ 


151 


Thierstein,  J.,  Schmidt,  P.  and  Haklev,  S.  (2009.)  “P2P  University:  Beginning  the 
Journey.”  Paper  presented  at  OpenEd  2009  Conference,  12-14  August 
2009,  Vancouver,  Canada.  Retrieved  from:  http://openedconference.org/ 
archives/414 

Weller,  M.  (2010).  “Big  and  Little  OER.”  In  OpenED2010:  Seventh  Annual  Open 
Education  Conference,  2-4  November  2010,  Barcelona,  Spain.  Retrieved 
from:  http://oro.open.ac.uk/24702/ 


152 


CHAPTER 


An  Open  “Materials”  Repository 
and  Global  Search  System: 
Preparing  for  Diverse  Learners  and 
a Variety  of  Learning  Processes 


Tsuneo  Yamada, 

Open  University  of  japan 


Introduction 

The  Present 

The  learning  environments  of  lifelong  learners  are  drastically  changing  due  to 
the  implementation  of  information  and  communication  technologies  (ICT). 
With  the  progress  of  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER;  cf.  OECD  2007;  D’Antoni 
2007)  combined  with  the  power  of  e-publishing  through  e-books  and  e-journals, 
learners  have  gained  access  to  a vast  store  of  information  and  learning  content, 
available  at  numerous  repositories  in  the  world.  Nonetheless,  the  quality  of  the 
content  stored  can  be  questioned. 

Successful  lifelong  learners  are  often  independent,  autonomous  and  self- 
directed.  In  addition,  many  live  in  distant  and  isolated  areas.  They  have  to  visit 
many  websites  and  compare  information  among  pages  before  accessing  what 
they  believe  to  be  optimal  content.  In  order  for  their  independent  efforts  to  be 
successful,  they  can  benefit  from  the  guidance  and  recommendations  of  both 
educators  and  librarians,  as  well  as  other  learners. 

The  Future 

It  would  be  unrealistic  to  expect  most  individual  learners  to  assess  correctly  the 
quality  and  relevancy  of  any  learning  content  for  themselves.  By  analysing  a 
learner’s  profile  (including,  e-portfolio)  and  the  context,  computer  programmes 
can  aid  in  finding  the  most  appropriate  modules  from  content  repositories 
available  worldwide.  Actual  courseware  can  be  organised  in  a modular  fashion, 
sometimes  by  learners  themselves,  and  stored  in  an  e-portfolio  as  an  artifact.  In 
this  process,  course  providers  can  control  the  pedagogical  designs  and  rules  and 
which  materials  are  to  be  used,  but  not  the  courseware  itself.  Any  teacher  can 


153 


find  the  most  appropriate  materials,  which  she  or  he  uses  in  the  classroom  after 
consulting  with  the  knowledge  base  with  respect  to  the  pedagogy,  quality  and  use 
rights,  as  well  as  colleagues'  practices  and  recommendations.  In  both  cases,  users 
can  concentrate  more  on  learning  and  teaching,  even  in  a variety  of  contexts. 

Such  a system  could  take  into  account  a broad  spectrum  of  personal 
characteristics  such  as  age,  interests,  achievement  levels,  the  learner’s  objectives 
and  goals,  the  learning  environments,  learning  styles  and  strategies.  This  system, 
which  supports  learners  or  teachers  with  the  selection  of  the  most  appropriate 
content,  should  have  some  functions  for  personalisation  and  optimisation  in 
order  to  support  an  optimal  learning  process  for  each  lifelong  learner. 

The  repositories  will  begin  the  sharing  and  distribution  even  in  material  and 
module  levels.  The  rapid  propagation  of  e-publishing  and  social  media  shows  the 
possibilities  of  fusion  of  open  and  proprietary  learning  objects.  In  this  context,  a 
more  holistic  distribution  infrastructure  and  marketplace  will  be  necessary. 


Background 

OUJ  and  OER  Community 

The  Open  University  of  Japan  (OUJ)  is  a national  core  institution  both  for  lifelong 
learning  and  for  open  education.  As  a distance  education  institution,  OUJ  has 
multiple  delivery  channels  for  course  materials.  It  has  housed  a television  and 
radio  station  since  1978  that  broadcasts  video  and  audio  course  materials  free  of 
charge.  In  addition  to  these  traditional  delivery  channels,  OUJ  distributes  content 
via  the  Internet. 

The  content  is  digitised  and  stored  in  a repository  and  consists  of  about  42  per 
cent  of  the  TV  courses  and  all  of  the  radio  courses  (71  of  169  TV  courses  and  157 
of  157  radio  courses  as  of  October  2011),  which  is  available  only  to  students  as 
“closed”  content,  as  streaming  video  or  audio.  Nevertheless,  OUJ  launched  “OUJ 
OpenCourseWare  (OUJ-OCW)”  in  2010  and  opened  some  of  this  digital  content 
via  the  Internet  in  order  to  contribute  through  OER  movements  to  the  lifelong 
learning  society  (21  courses  available  as  OUJ-OCW  as  of  July  2012). 

Another  contribution  of  OUJ  to  the  OER  community  is  that  it  has  made  available 
a cross-institutional  search  system.  In  Japan,  the  National  Institute  of  Multimedia 
Education  (NIME,  the  forerunner  of  the  Center  of  ICT  and  Distance  Education 
[CODE]  at  OUJ)  started  an  educational  information  portal  service  with  content  and 
metadata  repository  functions  primarily  for  higher  education  in  2003  (Yamada 
et  al.  2003;  Yamada  et  al.  2004).  In  March  2005,  NIME  launched  a new  gateway 
service  on  Japanese  educational  content,  called  “NIME-glad  (Gateway  to  Learning 
for  Ability  Development;  cf.  Yoshii  et  al.  2008).  In  the  same  framework,  NIME 
also  started  “JOCW  Search”  in  October  2006  for  the  Japan  OpenCourseWare 
Consortium  (JOCW).  NIME  collects  OCW  content  in  collaboration  with 
JOCW  member  organisations  and  adds  metadata  to  this  content,  which  is  then 
accumulated  in  a metadata  repository  called  a “referatory.”  Thus,  the  cross- 
institutional  search  system  on  JOCW  content  was  realised.  After  the  merger  of 
NIME  into  OUJ,  these  services  were  taken  over  by  CODE  at  OUJ.  As  of  August  2010, 
1,744  JOCW  materials  from  14  universities  were  registered  in  the  referatory. 


154 


As  numerous  OER  have  been  accumulated  in  repositories  worldwide,  some 
common  platforms  and  strategies  for  collecting  information  and  content  are 
indispensable  in  order  to  find  and  retrieve  quality  content  efficiently  from 
scattered  and  distributed  sources. 

GLOBE:  A Federation  of  Metadata  Repositories 

To  facilitate  the  international  sharing  and  exchange  of  high-quality  learning 
content,  the  core  organisation  in  each  country  and  region,  which  managed  the 
functions  for  federated  repositories  and  meta-referatory,  established  the  “Global 
Learning  Objects  Brokered  Exchange  (GLOBE)”  consortium  in  September  2004. 
The  original  members  were: 

• ARIADNE  (EU) 

• education.au  limited  (Australia) 

• eduSource  Canada  (Canada;  McGreal  et  al.  2004) 

• MERLOT  (North  America) 

• National  Institute  of  Multimedia  Education  (NIME,  Japan) 

Currently,  the  number  of  GLOBE  members  is  14: 


February  2006 

• eduSource  Canada  was  replaced  with  L0RNET 

April  2009 

• NIME  was  merged  into  the  Open  University  of  Japan  as  Center  of  ICT  and 
Distance  Education  (0UJ-C0DE) 

March  2010 

• education.au  limited  was  merged  into  Education  Services  Australia 

2007 

Joined  GLOBE: 

• Korea  Educational  Research  and  Information  Services  (KERIS,  Korea) 

• European  Schoolnet  (EU) 

• Center  for  Open  Sustainable  Learning 

• Utah  State  University  (C0SL,  USA) 

• Latin-American  Community  of  Learning  Objects  (LACL0,  Latin  America) 

2008 

Joined  GLOBE: 

• Institute  for  Information  Industry  (III,  Taiwan) 

• Institute  for  the  Study  of  Knowledge  Management  in  Education  (ISKME,  USA) 

2009 

Joined  GLOBE: 

• Thailand  Cyber  University  Project  under  the  Higher  Education  Commission 
(TCU,  Thailand) 

2010 

Joined  GLOBE: 

• Inter-University  Center  for  eLearning  (MEITAL,  Israel) 

• Eummena  Organization  and  Al-Quds  University  (Arabic  countries) 

• OER  Africa  (African  countries) 

See  Appendix  11.1  for  a full  list  of  GLOBE  members  as  of  November  2011. 

One  of  GLOBE's  objectives  is  to  assure  the  quality  of  the  cross-institutional 
searches  by  sharing  the  metadata,  which  GLOBE  members  have  collected  (Yamada 
and  Morimoto  2010).  Several  GLOBE  members  are  also  members  of  OCWC  or 
have  deep  commitments  to  other  OER  movements. 


155 


Our  Challenge:  Development  of  a Repository  for  Open 
Reusable  Materials 

In  order  to  develop  a new  OER  development  and  delivery  model,  OUJ  produced 
a series  of  quality  video  materials  which  can  be  used  in  the  development  of  both 
TV  broadcasting  programmes  and  online  courseware.  These  materials  were 
accumulated  in  a learning  object-oriented  content  repository  with  metadata  and 
shared  through  a global  metadata-sharing  organisation. 


The  Content:  Open  Materials 

OUJ  developed  a set  of  learning  components  on  International  Volunteer  Studies, 
in  collaboration  with  the  International  Society  of  Volunteer  Studies  in  Japan 
(ISVS).  In  order  to  increase  their  reusability,  most  of  the  components  are  simple 
videos  or  photos,  which  can  be  used  in  modules  of  online  courseware,  as  well  as 
for  classroom  teaching. 

This  academic  area  focuses  on  the  theoretical  and  practical  research  of  volunteer 
activities  in  international  frameworks.  The  society  supported  the  concept  of  OER, 
and  so  most  of  the  content  is  open  under  a Creative  Commons  licence. 

Currently,  about  1,350  movie  clips  have  been  developed  with  a typical  duration 
of  one  to  three  minutes.  Each  clip  is  available  in  two  MPEG-4  formats  (720  x 
480  and  600  x 440)  and  two  WMV  formats  (600  x 440  and  300  x 220).  One  of 
the  MPEG-4  formats  has  sufficient  quality  for  broadcasting.  At  the  opening,  the 
author  information,  title  and  copyright  are  shown  in  Japanese  and/or  English  (see 
Figure  11.1).  In  addition  to  the  name  of  the  copyright  holder,  the  conditions  for 
use  are  shown  with  the  icons  of  the  relevant  Creative  Commons  licence  and  more 
detailed  information  if  necessary. 

Volunteers  from  the  society  also  provided  materials,  which  had  previously  been 
collected  in  their  own  fields  and  used  in  their  classrooms.  As  the  academic  topic  was  still 
developing  rapidly  and  the  scholars  had  not  established  a standardised  curriculum,  the 
volunteers  also  contributed  to  creating  a taxonomy  and  classifying  the  keywords. 


Figure  11.1:  The  opening  of  a small  video  clip  produced  by  Open  University  of  Japan. 


Metadata 


Each  object  in  the  OUJ  repository  is  provided  with  metadata.  While  most  of  the 
metadata  elements  are  based  on  IEEE  LOM  (IEEE  1484.12.1  - 2002  Standard  for 
Learning  Object  Metadata),  there  are  some  exceptions.  If  the  metadata  element 
“Copyright”  is  used,  for  example  (No.  19  in  Appendix  11.2),  the  Creative 
Commons  licence  is  described  in  the  object  vocabularies  and  the  copyright 


156 


conditions  are  systematically  shown  in  the  search  results.  In  addition,  the 
metadata  includes  some  elements  for  content  management  such  as  “Permission 
for  Harvesting”  and  “Permission  for  Federated  Searching.” 


The  Metadata  Database 

OUJ  manages  a common  metadata  database  (OUJ-CODE  metadata  database, 
OMD)  with  a relational  database  management  system.  By  using  different  subsets 
of  the  metadata  collections,  we  provide  several  search  interfaces.  One  of  them  is 
JOCW  Search.  For  the  “International  Volunteer  Studies”  materials,  however,  we 
prepared  a new  search  interface,  called  “IV  Search”  (see  Figure  11.2). 


Figure  1 1 .2:  Concept  of  the  OUJ-CODE  search  system  and  “IV  Search.” 
OUJ-CODE  metadata  database  (OMD) 


Collections 


0 0 0 0 

rw  K J J rzr  n 

LOS \ 

0 


JOCW  ^ v ^ GLOBE 

n GLOSS  An  Academic 

<>  ^ Society 

Link  from  JOCW  /> 

Homepage  "‘GLOSS 


"JOCW  search"' 


“IV  Search” 


GLOBE  Harvester 
Federated  Search 


Interface 


Federation  of  Metadata  Repositories  on  the  GLOBE:  GLOBE  (Global 
Learning  Object  Brokered  Exchange) 

The  OUJ  metadata  repository  exchanges  a part  of  the  metadata  with  international 
partners  through  federated  search  and/or  harvesting.  For  example,  as  a member  of 
GLOBE,  OUJ  has  provided  the  metadata  to  the  GLOBE  harvester  in  the  harvesting 
system  and  returns  query  results  in  the  federated  search  network.  GLOBE  has 
adopted  the  IEEE-LOM  version  1.0  (IEEE  2002)  for  its  metadata  standard,  the 
Simple  Query  Interface  (SQI)  (Simon  et  al.  2005)  for  the  query  language,  and  the 
Open  Archive  Initiative  Protocol  for  Metadata  Harvesting  (OAI-PMH)  (Logoze  et 
al.  2002)  for  harvesting. 

Using  these  standards,  GLOBE  has  realised  a global  search  and  delivery  network. 
The  current  numbers  of  harvested  metadata  are  shown  in  Table  11.1.  GLOBE  users 
can  find  and  retrieve  high-quality  learning  content  from  the  repositories,  as  well 
as  provide  their  own  content  to  potential  users  worldwide. 


157 


Table  1 1 .1 : The  total  number  of  metadata  collected  by  the  GLOBE  harvester,  Open 
Archives  Initiative  Protocol  for  Metadata  Harvesting  (OAI-PMH),  as  of  February  2012 

Note:  Other  GLOBE  members  join  using  federated  search  technologies. 


Source 

Number 

ARIADNE  (EU) 

513,703 

European  Schoolnet  (EU) 

185,940 

LACLO  (Latin  America) 

40,957 

MERLOT  (USA) 

32,735 

OER  commons*  (world) 

30,903 

KERIS  (Korea) 

7,439 

LORNET  (Canada) 

2,295 

OUJ-CODE**  (Japan) 

1,761 

OER  Africa  (Africa) 

1,703 

TOTAL: 

817,436 

* OER  Commons  is  a project  of  the  Institute  for  the  Study  of 
Knowledge  Management  in  Education  (ISKME). 

**  The  number  for  OUJ-CODE  does  not  include  materials  from 
International  Volunteer  Studies. 

Prospects 

Business  and  Management  Issues 

At  OUJ,  the  course  materials  are  delivered  mainly  as  a combination  of  printed 
textbooks  and  digital  satellite/terrestrial  broadcasting  materials  (TV  or  radio).  The 
Internet  is  still  a supplementary  medium  because  many  OUJ  students  have  not 
prepared  their  own  learning  environments  and  lack  the  skills  for  online  learning. 
As  our  students  have  different  comfort  zones  in  the  learning  environments,  we 
consider  OUJ  should  still  keep  multiple  media  content  delivery. 

Under  the  supervision  of  the  lecturers,  OUJ  course  materials  are  developed  in  each 
medium,  while  the  processes,  including  copyright  clearance,  are  independent. 

In  order  to  reduce  the  cost  while  assuring  the  quality,  restructuring  of  the 
development  process  in  a more  integrated  fashion  is  needed.  One  of  the  major 
costs  is  for  the  copyright  clearance  of  materials  for  broadcasting  and  Internet 
use.  As  OUJ  has  its  own  production  department,  it  has  started  to  digitise  its  own 
materials  and  to  store  them  in  a pilot  component  repository  (that  is,  a “materials” 
repository)  so  that  they  can  be  shared  and  re-used  in  different  contexts.  However, 
the  accumulation  of  materials  progresses  slowly  due  to  limited  financial  and 
human  resources.  A “critical  mass”  of  high-quality  components  can  be  achieved 
more  quickly  by  sharing  with  other  organisations  and  the  OER  community. 

This  sharing  will  afford  more  comfortable  circumstances  for  content  assembly, 
adaptation  and  development. 


158 


Quality  Assurance  of  Metadata  and  Content 

The  quality  of  learning  content  and  its  metadata  is  a critical  factor  for  sharing  and 
distribution.  Information  on  the  quality  of  the  content  will  be  one  of  the  basic 
and  pressing  value-added  services  of  global  search  providers.  One  of  the  major 
differences  between  GLOBE  search  and  other  commercial  search  systems  is  that  in 
GLOBE  member  organisations,  only  educators  can  register  the  metadata  for  their 
educational  content.  So,  GLOBE  search  is  considered  to  meet  minimum  standards 
for  quality  of  educational  content. 

In  addition,  some  GLOBE  member  organisations  have  their  own  quality  assurance 
frameworks  and  standards.  For  example,  MERLOT  performs  a peer  review  and 
recommendation  system  for  higher  education  learning  content.  TELUQ  (Tele- 
universite  du  Quebec)  launched  “the  Quality  for  Reuse”  project  in  collaboration 
with  several  Canadian  universities  and  GLOBE.  In  this  project,  volunteers  from 
ISVS  classified  the  registered  content  based  on  their  expertise.  Results  revealed 
new  quality  assurance  processes  through  the  collaborations  within  the  academy. 

The  descriptions  on  shared  metadata  among  GLOBE  members  are  not  absolute. 
They  contain  each  member’s  guidelines  and  the  results  of  their  evaluations, 
which  could  be  different.  In  addition,  in  many  cross-institutional  search  services, 
both  selection  of  query  results  and  display  order  depend  on  the  local  rules  of 
the  different  members.  In  order  to  cope  with  the  diversity  of  the  users  and  their 
environments,  it  is  important  to  have  multiple  viewpoints  to  ensure  a reliable 
evaluation  of  the  content.  Allowing  for  differences  ensures  that  the  information 
on  content  quality  provided  by  the  different  metadata  is  useful. 


Technical  Issues 

When  sharing  the  many  different  OER,  it  should  be  more  efficient  to  have  some 
technical  standards.  As  discussed  above,  repositories  and  their  federations  use 
various  international  standards.  Examples  include  Dublin  Core  and  IEEE-LOM  for 
metadata,  SQI  for  query  language,  and  OAI-PMH  for  harvesting. 

OUJ  uses  SCORM  (Sharable  Content  Object  Reference  Model)  for  eLearning 
management  and  content  development.  SCORM  supports  the  packaging  of 
content  using  a collection  of  standards  and  specifications.  Organisations  and 
consortia  with  sufficient  resources  can  implement  SCORM  in  their  development. 
However,  individuals  may  have  serious  difficulties  in  doing  the  same.  They  need 
some  tools  for  support  in  generating  SCORM  content  or  adequate  guidance 
by  experts.  Metadata  tagging  is  also  considered  to  be  a major  roadblock  even 
for  organisations.  Some  automatic  or  semi-automatic  tagging  mechanisms  are 
indispensable. 


Conclusion 

When  OUJ  launched  a cross-institutional  search  service  on  learning  content  in 
2004,  the  primary  concern  was  how  to  attain  a “critical  mass”  of  course  materials. 
The  initial  search  system  focused  mainly  on  the  location  of  the  searchable 
content.  With  the  exponential  increase  in  the  number  of  digital  learning 
resources  and  content  repositories,  distinctive  value-added  search  functions 


159 


are  becoming  indispensable.  There  is  a need  to  provide  additional  information 
and  search  services  on  rights  management,  quality  assurance  and  education/ 
pedagogical  supports  or  recommendations,  as  well  as  customisations  such  as 
localisation  and  personalisation. 

When  we  consider  how  to  describe  and  share  various  pieces  of  information  on 
new  value-added  services,  standardised  metadata  is  still  one  of  the  best  solutions. 
In  order  to  launch  actual  services  among  related  organisations  promptly,  a 
framework  for  shaping  agreements  on  the  specifications  of  metadata  elements  and 
controlled  vocabularies  is  indispensable. 

With  the  progress  of  the  digital  exchange  of  educational  content,  new  types 
of  players  who  are  specialised  in  specific  functions  can  participate.  In  Japan, 
the  Accreditation  Council  for  Practical  Abilities  (ACPA)  has  started  evaluation 
activities.  ACPA  is  a non-profit  organisation  established  in  2003  with  the  support 
of  the  government,  corporations  and  higher  education  institutions.  In  order  to 
assure  the  quality  of  practical  learning  resources  and  to  promote  the  exchange 
between  universities  and  corporations  specifically,  ACPA  defines  the  practical 
abilities  of  several  professional  fields,  develops  the  standard  skill  matrix  in  each 
field,  and  performs  certification  and  accreditation  of  courses,  course  providers, 
educational  institutions,  lecturers  and  trainees  based  on  their  original  or 
standardised  criteria.  The  standard  skill  matrices  are  open  to  the  public  (ICT 
domain:  www.acpa.jp/en/acpa/standard_skill_matrix_bmd.pdf). 

By  re-using  their  evaluation  results,  we  can  add  quality  information  in  our 
metadata  system.  (For  example,  the  category  field  of  “Quality”  element  in  our 
metadata  system  shows  the  name  of  the  evaluating  organisation  and  its  standards; 
and  the  value  field  shows  the  result  of  the  evaluation.)  By  sharing  the  metadata 
framework  with  new  players  in  the  digital  exchanges,  we  can  provide  the  right 
content  to  each  learner  more  precisely  and  efficiently. 

Sharing  at  the  courseware  level  and  at  the  component  or  module  level  is 
important  to  efficiently  and  effectively  support  localisation  or  personalisation  of 
the  content.  In  the  re-use  and  remix,  materials  are  often  used  in  ways  the  original 
author  never  intended.  Especially  across  borders,  deployments  in  different 
cultural  contexts  can  be  pluralistic  and  unpredictable  to  the  original  creators. 

The  propagation  of  component-oriented  OER  may  depend  on  the  tolerance  of  the 
original  authors  regarding  the  uncontrollability  of  their  products.  In  the  chain 
of  educational  content  production,  the  providers  have  the  roles  of  both  authors 
and  users  simultaneously.  One  of  the  ways  to  support  the  further  propagation  of 
OER,  therefore,  is  to  respect  the  creator’s  rights,  while  supporting  the  opening  of 
knowledge  for  the  benefit  of  all  humanity. 


Acknowledgements 

This  study  was  partially  supported  by  Grant-in- Aid  for  Scientific  Research  (A)  to 
the  author  (Grant  No.  23240110).  This  study  is  based  on  collaborative  research 
and/or  operations  with  GLOBE  partner  organisations  and  the  International 
Society  of  Volunteer  Studies  in  Japan. 


160 


References 


D’Antoni,  S.  (2007).  “Sharing  Content:  Access  to  Knowledge.”  International 

Institute  for  Educational  Planning  Newsletter  25(2).  Retrieved  from:  www. 
unesco.org/iiep/eng/newsletter/2007/apre07.pdf 

Gunther,  J.,  Kahn,  J.  and  Hanley,  G.  (2010).  “Choice,  Affordability,  and 

Accessibility:  The  Digital  Marketplace  Delivers  OER  and  More.”  Paper 
presented  at  the  3rd  annual  Sloan  Consortium  Symposium  “Emerging 
Technologies  for  Online  Learning,”  August  2010,  San  Jose,  CA. 

IEEE  (Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers)  (2002).  “Draft  Standard  for 
Learning  Object  Metadata.”  (IEEE  1484.12.1-2002). 

Logoze,  C.,  Van  de  Sompel,  H.,  Nelson,  M.  and  Warner,  S.  (2002).  “The  Open 
Archives  Initiative  Protocol  for  Metadata  Harvesting.”  Retrieved  from: 
www.openarchives.org/OAI/openarchivesprotocol.html 

McGreal,  R.,  Anderson,  T.,  Babin,  G.,  Downes,  S.,  Friesen,  N.,  Harrigan,  K.,  Hatala, 
M.,  MacLeod,  D.,  Mattson,  M.,  Paquette,  G.,  Richards,  R.,  Roberts,  T.  and 
Schafer,  S.  (2004).  “EduSource:  Canada’s  Learning  Object  Repository 
Network.”  The  International  Journal  of  Instructional  Technology  and  Distance 
Learning.  Retrieved  from:  www.itdl.org/Journal/Mar_04/article01.htm 

OECD  (Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development)  (2007).  Giving 
Knowledge  for  Tree:  The  Emergence  of  Open  Educational  Resources.  OECD. 

Simon,  B.,  Massart,  D.,  Van  Assche,  F.,  Ternier,  S.  and  Duval,  E.  (2005).  “A  Simple 
Query  Interface  Specification  for  Learning  Repositories.”  CEN  Workshop 
Agreement  (CWA  15454). 

Yamada,  T.,  Miwa,  M.,  Aoki,  S.,  Kato,  H.,  Kawafuchi,  A.,  Kodama,  H.,  Kondo,  T., 

Ohta,  Y.,  Shibasaki,  J.,  Yaginuma,  Y.  and  Inaba,  R.  (2004).  “Sharing  and  Re- 
use of  Digital  Learning  Materials  in  Japanese  Higher  Education:  A NIME 
New  Project.”  In  Proceedings  of  the  World  Conference  on  Educational 
Multimedia,  Hypermedia  and  Telecommunications  (Ed-Media  2004), 

June  2004,  Lugano,  Switzerland,  pp.  2323-2330. 

Yamada,  T.,  and  Morimoto,  Y.  (2010).  “Utilization  of  Metadata  for  Quality 

Assurance  in  the  International  Sharing  and  Reuse  of  Open  Educational 
Resources.”  AAOU Journal  5(1):  24-31. 

Yamada,  T.  Yaginuma,  Y.  and  Inaba,  R.  (2003).  “A  Challenge  for  Sharing  Digital 

Learning  Materials  of  Teacher  Education.”  In  Proceedings  of  2003  KAEIB 
International  Symposium  and  Conference  on  Educational  Media  in 
Schools,  4-5  September  2003,  Seoul,  Korea. 

Yoshii,  A.,  Yamada,  T.  and  Shimizu,  Y.  (2008).  “Development  of  Federated  Search 
System  for  Sharing  Learning  Objects  between  NIME-glad  and  Overseas 
Gateways  .’’Educational  Technology  Research  31(1-2):  125-132. 


161 


Appendix  11.1:  GLOBE  member  organisations,  as  of 
November  2011 


Name  of  organisation/URL 

Country 

Date  of 
participation 

Notes 

Al-Quds  University 
www.alquds.edu/ 

Palestine 

2010/02 

ARIADNE  (Alliance  of  Remote  Instructional  Authoring  and 
Distribution  Networks  for  Europe) 
www.ariadne-eu.org/ 

EU 

2004/09 

A founder 

COSL  (The  Center  for  Open  Sustainable  Learning,  Utah 

State  University) 

http://cosl.usu.edu/ 

USA 

2007/09 

education.au  limited  - EdNa  Online 

Australia 

2004/09 

A founder;  closed  in 
August  2009 

Education  Services  Australia 

Australia 

2009/09 

Successor  of 
education.au  limited 

eduSource  Canada 

Canada 

2004/09 

A founder;  closed  in 
January  2006 

EUN  (European  Schoolnet) 
www.europeanschoolnet.org/ 

EU 

2007/09 

III  (Institute  for  Information  Industry) 
www.iii.org.tw/english/ 

Taiwan 

2008/04 

ISKME  (Institute  for  the  Study  of  Knowledge  Management 

in  Education) 

www.iskme.org/ 

USA 

2008/09 

KERIS  (Korea  Educational  Research  and  Information 
Services) 

http://english.keris.or.kr/ 

Korea 

2007/02 

LACLO  (Latin-American  Community  of  Learning  Objects) 
www.laclo.espol.edu.ec/ 

Latin 

American 

countries 

2007/09 

LORNET 

www.lornet.org/ 

Canada 

2006/02 

Successor  of 
eduSource  Canada 

MERLOT  (Multimedia  Educational  Resource  for  Learning 

and  Online  Teaching) 

www.merlot.org/ 

North  America 

2004/09 

A founder 

METAL-Inter-University  Center  for  e-Learning  (IUCEL) 
http://meital.iucc.ac.il/meital/English/English.htm 

Israel 

2010/02 

NIME  (National  Institute  of  Multimedia  Education) 

Japan 

2004/09 

A founder;  closed  in 
March  2009 

OER  Africa 
www.oerafrica.org/ 

African 

countries 

2010/09 

OUJ-CODE  (Center  of  ICT  and  Distance  Education,  the 

Open  University  of  Japan) 

www.code.ouj.ac.jp/ 

Japan 

2009/04 

Successor  of  NIME 

TCU  (Thailand  Cyber  University  Project) 
www.thaicyberu.go.th/ 

Thailand 

2009/03 

162 


Appendix  11.2:  Metadata  elements  used  in  OUJ-CODE 
common  metadata  database 


No. 

Name 

Corresponding  element  to  IEEE  1484.12.1-2002 

1. 

ID  of  the  metadata 

3.1  Meta-Metadata  - Identifier 

2. 

ID  of  the  L0a 

1.1  General  - Identifier 

3. 

Title 

1.2  General  - Title 

4. 

Language(s)  used  within  the  LO 

1.3  General  - Language 

5. 

Description 

1.4  General  - Description 

6. 

Keyword(s) 

1.5  General  - Keyword 

7. 

Aggregation  level 

1.8  General  - Aggregation  Level 

8. 

Contributor  to  the  LO 

2.3  Life  Cycle  - Contribute 

9. 

Language  of  the  metadata 

3.4  Meta-Metadata  - Language 

10. 

MIME  media  types  of  the  LO 

4.1  Technical  - Format 

11. 

URL 

4.3  Technical  - Location 

12. 

Technical  requirements  to  use  the  LO 

4.4  Technical  - Requirement 

13. 

Educational  stages6 

5.6  Educational  - Context 

14. 

Intended  learning  time 

5.9  Educational  - Typical  Learning  Time 

15. 

Intended  user  of  the  LO 

5.10  Educational  - Description 

16. 

Paid-for  or  free 

6.1  Rights  - Cost 

17. 

Restriction  of  usage 

6.3  Rights  - Description 

18. 

Classification0 

9.  Classification 

19. 

Copyright0 

- 

20. 

Quality0 

- 

21. 

Permission  to  Harvesting 

(for  GLOBE  Harvesting) 

22. 

Permission  to  Federated  Search 

(for  GLOBE  Federated  search) 

a ID  of  the  LO  is  generated  automatically  as  Catalog  is  “URL";  Entry  is  the  actual  URL. 
b Educational  stages  have  a unique  value  space  matched  to  the  Japanese  educational  system, 
o Classification  shows  the  taxonomy  system  and  its  value(s). 
d Copyright  shows  the  rights  management  system  and  its  value(s). 
e Quality  shows  the  quality  assurance  system  and  its  value(s). 


163 


CHAPTER 


Wikiwijs:  Using  OER  as  Driver  for 
Maturation 


Robert  Schuwer, 

Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands 


Wikiwijs,  a Nation-wide  Initiative  on  OER 

Wikiwijs  was  designed  as  an  environment  in  which  all  teachers  of  the 
Netherlands,  ranging  from  primary  education  to  higher  education,  can  (co-) 
develop,  share,  rework  and  use  digital  learning  materials,  published  under 
an  open  licence.  On  December  14,  2009,  the  Minister  of  Education  of  the 
Netherlands,  Ronald  Plasterk,  launched  the  first  version  of  Wikiwijs. 

Digital  learning  materials  are  more  than  digital  textbooks.  The  site  and 
community  are  designed  to  support  a variety  of  educational  materials  including 
tests,  labs,  simulations  and  practice  materials. 

One  main  principle  of  Wikiwijs  is  using  the  “wisdom  of  the  crowds”  (Wikipedia 
2012).  Therefore,  Wikiwijs  should  become  “for,  from  and  by  teachers.”  As  soon  as 
possible,  they  must  feel  ownership  of  Wikiwijs,  its  content  and  functionality.  This 
feeling  of  ownership  is  considered  the  most  critical  success  factor  for  Wikiwijs. 

Although  Wikiwijs  is  seen  to  be  for,  from  and  by  teachers,  other  potential  target 
groups  for  contributing  to  Wikiwijs  are  not  excluded.  Potentially  interested  groups 
could  be,  among  others,  former  teachers,  students,  parents,  teacher  trainers  and 
scientists. 

A second  main  principle  of  Wikiwijs  is  that  the  learning  materials  should  be 
openly  accessible.  “Open”  in  this  context  refers  to  the  four  rights  a user  of  the 
learning  materials  has:  re-use  as-is;  redistribute;  rework;  and  remix  with  other 
open  learning  materials  (Wiley  2007).  This  was  in  line  with  the  advice  of  the 
Educational  Council  of  the  Netherlands  (the  counselling  body  of  the  Dutch 
Government)  in  2008.  They  published  the  result  of  research  they  had  conducted 
on  the  use  of  digital  learning  materials  in  the  Netherlands.  Their  conclusions 
focused  on  the  use  of  open  learning  materials  because,  in  their  opinion,  this  has 
the  most  impact  on  innovation  in  education  using  digital  learning  materials. 


165 


This  conclusion  was  motivated  by  the  freedom  to  rework  and/or  remix  openly 
licensed  content  and  applications  for  use  in  a wide  variety  of  contexts.  These 
characteristics  give  teachers  the  possibility  to  arrange  and  create  their  own  lesson 
content,  thereby  directly  affecting  the  core  of  education. 

Some  policy  goals  to  which  Wikiwijs  has  to  contribute  pertain  to  the  quality 
and  accessibility  of  education.  Wikiwijs  is  expected  to  efficiently  support  and 
help  create  more  flexible  learning  paths  and  support  the  professional  upgrading 
of  teachers.  The  availability  of  open  learning  materials  will  be  a necessary  pre- 
condition to  reach  this. 

More  information  about  Wikiwijs  can  be  found  in  Schuwer  and  Mulder  (2009). 


Infrastructure  as  a Prerequisite  for  Wikiwijs 

Before  the  launch  of  Wikiwijs,  several  components  of  a national  infrastructure 
already  existed.  The  components  that  Wikiwijs  made  use  of  were: 

• a national  standard  for  labelling  learning  materials  with  metadata;  and 

• a harvester  of  metadata  for  learning  materials  gathered  into  several 
collections  that  can  be  accessed  through  the  Internet. 

A third  component  at  the  start  of  Wikiwijs,  was  the  use  of  learning  trajectories  for 
structuring  learning  materials.  Each  of  the  components  is  described  below. 

Two  Dutch  organisations  play  an  important  role  in  the  remainder  of  this  paper. 

For  primary,  secondary  and  vocational  education,  Kennisnet  is  a public  knowledge 
centre  providing  independent  advice  and  services  to  support  and  inspire  educational 
institutions  in  the  effective  use  of  information  and  communications  technology 
(ICT)  in  continued  improvement  in  the  quality  of  learning  (http://about.kennisnet. 
nl).  For  higher  education,  SURF  is  the  collaborative  organisation  for  higher  education 
institutions  and  research  institutes  in  the  Netherlands  (www.surf.nl/en/oversurf/ 
Pages/Introductie.aspx),  aimed  at  breakthrough  innovations  in  ICT. 


Standard  for  Metadata 

In  2003,  a metadata  application  profile  (ForeFOM)  for  learning  materials  in 
Higher  Education  was  formulated  (http://wiki.surffoundation.nl/display/ 
standards/FORElom).  This  was  followed  by  another  application  profile  for 
primary,  secondary  and  vocational  education  in  2006,  called  the  Content 
ZoekProfiel  (Content  Search  Profile;  http://standaarden.wiki.kennisnet.nl/ 
Content-zoekprofiel).  Both  were  application  profiles  based  on  the  IEEE  LOM 
(Learning  Object  Metadata)  standard  (http://ltsc.ieee.org/wgl2/).  A body, 
Edustandaard,  was  created  to  manage  the  profiles  and  co-ordinate  further 
developments.  The  metadata  profiles  consisted  of  conventions  on: 

• mandatory,  recommended  or  voluntary  fields; 

• lists  of  values  (vocabularies)  to  choose  from  for  several  fields;  and 

• the  type  of  data  to  fill  in  and  constraints  on  it  (e.g.,  maximum  number  of 
characters)  when  no  vocabulary  is  attached  to  a field. 

The  vocabularies  for  the  ContentZoekProfiel  (CZP)  are  in  machine-readable  format, 
accessible  from  a central  database  (www.edustandaard.nl/vocabulaires/vb). 


166 


Harvester  for  Metadata 


Having  a metadata  standard  and  profile  makes  it  possible  to  encourage  owners  of 
collections  with  digital  learning  materials  to  describe  their  materials  according 
to  common  standards.  When  the  descriptions  of  all  collections  are  accumulated, 
this  will  result  in  an  extensive  list  of  descriptions,  which  can  be  used  to  search 
for  learning  materials.  This  accumulation  is  done  by  a harvester.  Already  in  1997, 
MERLOT  (http://taste.merlot.org/howmerlotstarted.html)  started  developing 
and  implementing  a harvester  to  unlock  several  collections  with  learning  objects. 
Another  Canadian  initiative,  LORNet  (www.lornet.ca/),  started  in  2003,  consisted 
of  many  research  activities  around  digital  learning  materials.  Among  them  was 
the  development  of  a harvester  to  collect  metadata  from  collections  from  the 
partner  institutions. 

These  existing  harvesters  were  not  suited  for  use  in  the  Netherlands  because 
they  were  not  targeted  at  content  for  primary  and  secondary  education  or  at 
learning  materials  in  the  Dutch  language,  and  they  did  not  adhere  to  the  CZP  or 
LORENet  metadata  profile.  Therefore,  both  Kennisnet  and  SURF  decided  to  start 
development  of  a dedicated  harvester  for  the  Dutch  educational  field. 

Kennisnet  started  their  service  Edurep  as  a proof  of  concept  in  2007.  Edurep  is 
a harvester  for  metadata  from  learning  materials,  residing  in  collections  and 
described  in  accordance  with  the  CZP  profile.  About  15  organisations  with  a 
collection  of  learning  materials  received  grants  to  add  metadata  to  their  learning 
materials  and  to  provide  a technical  interface  based  on  the  open  OAI-PMH 
protocol  (Open  Archives  Initiative  Protocol  for  Metadata  Harvesting).  This 
interface  makes  it  possible  for  Edurep  to  harvest  the  metadata  periodically  and 
add  it  to  a central  metadata  repository.  During  the  same  period,  SURF  started 
to  implement  LORENet.  LORENet  was  also  a proof  of  concept  for  a harvester, 
aimed  at  cataloguing  learning  materials  in  higher  education,  to  which  metadata 
compliant  with  the  LoreLOM  profile  was  added.  About  15  collections  were 
connected  to  LORENet,  also  using  an  OAI-PMH  target. 


Learning  Trajectories 

The  Netherlands  government  has  formulated  learning  goals  to  be  reached  for 
primary  and  secondary  education.  Secondary  education  in  the  Netherlands  has 
three  levels,  with  each  level  divided  into  two  sub-levels  (the  first  two  or  three 
years  and  the  second  two  or  three  years).  At  the  end  of  the  second  sub-level,  each 
student  has  the  option  to  take  a national  exam  in  order  to  graduate.  For  secondary 
education,  the  learning  goals  are  formulated  for  each  subject,  level  and  sub-level. 

The  learning  goals  are  formulated  on  a high  level.  This  level  is  too  high  to  be 
workable  for  a teacher  or  a group  of  teachers  who  want  to  develop  learning 
materials  aimed  at  covering  the  whole  or  part  of  the  learning  goals.  It  is  at  this 
point  that  commercial  publishers  bring  in  a lot  of  experience  in  developing 
curriculum  plans  (applying  the  high  level  learning  goals  of  the  government)  and 
realising  this  in  a teaching  method.  Teachers  who  are  using  these  methods  can  be 
certain  that  their  students  have  covered  all  subjects  of  the  curriculum  sufficiently. 
Therefore,  commercial  textbooks  are  the  guide  for  the  majority  of  teachers  in  the 
Netherlands. 


167 


The  disadvantage  is  that  these  methods  are  in  most  cases  not  tailored  to  specific 
target  groups  (e.g.,  children  with  dyslexia)  and  specific  situations  (e.g.,  a school 
with  a high  percentage  of  allochthon  children).  Furthermore,  actual  events 
are  not  covered,  because  most  of  the  teaching  methods  are  fixed  in  non-digital 
textbooks  that  need  to  last  for  several  years.  These  disadvantages  are  only  partly 
solved  by  the  publishers  with  their  offering  of  access  to  digital  learning  materials, 
in  addition  to  the  printed  textbooks. 

A possible  answer  to  these  problems  is  to  structure  a set  of  learning  materials 
according  to  “learning  trajectories.”  According  to  Strijker  (2010),  “A  learning 
trajectory  is  a rationalized  composition  of  learning  objectives  and  subjects, 
leading  to  a specific  learning  goal.” 

Around  2005,  several  experiments  were  initiated  to  develop  (open)  learning 
trajectories.  The  goals  of  these  experiments  were  to  get  more  insight  into 
how  learning  trajectories  might  be  visualised,  to  experience  problems  and  to 
develop  solutions  to  these  problems.  A specific  goal  was  to  get  more  insight  into 
continuous  learning  trajectories  for  more  easily  making  the  transition  between 
the  sectors  (e.g.,  primary  to  secondary  education).  In  most  of  the  experiments, 

SLO  (the  institute  for  curriculum  development  in  the  Netherlands)  was  involved 
(www.slo.nl/organisatie/international/).  The  Ministry  of  Education,  being  the 
principal  lead  in  the  development  of  Wikiwijs,  ordered  that  working  with  learning 
trajectories  should  be  one  of  the  functions  available  in  Wikiwijs. 


Acceleration  of  Infrastructure  Development 

Development  of  Wikiwijs  started  in  August  2009.  It  was  decided  to  use  the 
aforementioned  components  of  the  infrastructure.  Technically,  it  was  not  the  aim 
to  create  one  large  Wikiwijs  repository,  but  to  provide  an  interface  in  which  users 
could  search  for  learning  materials  residing  elsewhere  (i.e.,  a portal  function).  This 
first  version  of  Wikiwijs  was  not  aimed  at  providing  services  for  higher  education. 

Because  of  the  time  constraints,  it  was  not  possible  to  realise  this.  The 
consequences  of  the  development  of  Wikiwijs  on  the  maturation  of  each  of  the 
components  of  the  infrastructure  are  described  in  the  next  section. 

Consequences  of  the  Metadata  Standard 

Together,  the  announcement  of  Wikiwijs  at  the  end  of  2008  to  create  a platform  for 
all  educational  sectors,  the  decision  to  use  the  harvesters  that  were  already  available, 
and  the  promise  of  continuous  learning  trajectories  seemed  to  offer  an  easy  transition 
among  the  different  sectors.  This  led  to  the  insight  that  a single  metadata  standard  for 
all  educational  sectors  was  necessary  to  make  this  realisable  within  Wikiwijs.  Kennisnet 
and  SURF  therefore  started  a project  to  come  to  one  overall  standard  for  metadata 
profiling,  to  replace  the  current  profiles,  CZP  and  LORELom. 

Version  1 of  this  new  profile,  NL-LOM,  was  published  in  June  2010,  followed  by 
a slightly  altered  version  (1.01)  in  July  2011.  This  profile  was  implemented  in  the 
harvesters  and  Wikiwijs,  and  became  available  in  October  2011.  The  NL-LOM 
is  set  up  in  such  a way  that  metadata  previously  described  in  collections  and 
implemented  using  one  of  the  previous  profiles  do  not  need  to  be  changed  in 
order  to  comply  with  the  new  standard. 


168 


Consequences  for  Harvesting 

Already  during  the  test  phase  for  the  first  version  of  Wikiwijs,  it  became  clear 
that  the  harvester  Edurep  could  not  handle  the  expected  growth  in  demand. 

The  technical  architecture  was  not  scalable,  mainly  because  the  initiative  was 
set  up  only  as  a proof  of  concept.  Furthermore,  after  the  launch  of  Wikiwijs,  the 
quality  of  the  metadata  harvested  turned  out  to  be  insufficient.  This  resulted  in 
many  complaints  by  the  users  of  Wikiwijs.  Two  types  of  actions  were  undertaken. 
First,  Edurep  was  redesigned  and  rebuilt  to  be  able  to  handle  large  amounts  of 
concurrent  access.  Also,  collection  organisers  were  encouraged  and  supported 
to  improve  their  metadata.  The  latter  activity  was  a joint  effort  of  Edurep  and 
Wikiwijs  and  it  is  still  running. 

For  teachers,  the  overarching  complaint  was  that  adding  metadata  to  learning 
materials  was  a tedious  job,  impeding  them  in  their  desire  to  share  their  learning 
materials.  In  response,  the  team  started  to  redevelop  Edurep.  The  automatic 
insertion  of  metadata  and  the  combination  of  different  sources  of  metadata  were 
two  of  the  functions  being  developed.  By  early  2012,  this  functionality  became 
available  for  users  of  Wikiwijs.  This  now  makes  it  possible  to  add  additional 
metadata  to  learning  materials.  This  is  useful,  for  example,  to  describe  experiences 
of  the  use  of  content  and  applications  in  specific  contexts. 

And  lastly,  both  harvesters  Edurep  and  LORENet  are  being  combined  into 
one  virtual  harvester.  This  makes  it  possible  to  search  for  content  across  the 
boundaries  of  different  sectors,  including  higher  education.  Also,  a smaller 
harvester  targeted  on  “green  education”  is  integrated  into  Edurep.  Currently 
Edurep  is  one  of  the  largest  European  harvesters  in  terms  of  the  number  of 
learning  objects  it  can  access  (>750,000). 


Consequences  for  Learning  Trajectories 

The  Dutch  Ministry  of  Education  demanded  that  Wikiwijs  provide  an  opinion  on 
what  structuring  learning  materials  using  learning  trajectories  actually  meant, 
and  how  it  could  be  implemented.  In  the  same  period,  because  of  the  launch  of 
Wikiwijs,  the  ministry  became  aware  that  learning  trajectories  could  offer  many 
advantages  to  teachers  looking  for  more  than  just  materials  for  a single  lesson. 

As  a result,  several  initiatives  were  started,  both  by  Wikiwijs  and  by  other 
organisations  such  as  SLO  and  Kennisnet.  These  initiatives  led  to  adaptations  on 
the  CZP  metadata  profile  (transferred  to  the  current  NL-LOM  standard)  and  the 
development  of  standard  vocabularies  to  describe  the  learning  materials  available 
in  a learning  trajectory.  Currently,  the  metadata  for  learning  trajectories  are  seen 
to  be  essential  to  bridge  the  gap  between  open  and  closed  learning  materials. 
According  to  Blockhuis  et  al.  (2011),  85  per  cent  of  teachers  in  primary  and 
secondary  education  use  commercial  products  as  the  main  source  of  content  for 
their  teaching.  Most  of  them  look  for  alternative  learning  materials  to  replace 
small  parts  of  these  products  (e.g.,  a paragraph).  By  labelling  these  commercial 
products  and  open  learning  materials  with  the  same  metadata  for  learning 
trajectories,  appropriate  learning  materials  for  a given  part  of  the  content  can  be 
found  (covering  the  same  learning  goals  and  treating  the  same  subjects).  In  the 
fall  of  2011,  experiments  with  this  application  of  learning  trajectory  metadata 
were  initiated. 


169 


Conclusion 


When  the  idea  of  Wikiwijs  was  launched,  it  was  not  immediately  clear  the 
influences  it  could  have  on  components  of  an  infrastructure  already  available. 
Wikiwijs  accelerated  the  development  of  the  infrastructure,  both  direct  (in  the 
case  of  the  learning  trajectories)  and  indirect.  Because  of  Wikiwijs,  the  use  of  and 
interest  in  (open)  learning  materials  increased  and  led  to  greater  demand  on  the 
infrastructure.  In  other  words:  the  elements  discussed  reached  a mature  level, 
influenced  by  the  demands  Wikiwijs  had  put  on  them. 

Of  course,  this  is  only  a means  to  reach  an  important  target  for  Wikiwijs:  realising 
growth  in  using,  developing  and  sharing  open  learning  materials.  Several  research 
efforts  are  underway  that  should  provide  more  insight  into  the  influence  of 
Wikiwijs  on  the  motivation  of  teachers  to  use  digital  learning  materials  (Van 
Acker  et  al.  2011;  Vermeulen  et  al.  2012). 

It  is  too  early  to  have  hard  evidence  on  the  direct  influence  of  Wikiwijs.  Indirect 
evidence  that  Wikiwijs  has  a growing  influence  on  the  creation  and  use  of  digital 
learning  materials  is  provided  by  several  quantitative  measures.  Table  12.1 
summarises  for  2010,  2011  and  2012  (estimated)  the  development  in  number  of 
uploads  to  the  Wikiwijs  repository,  the  number  of  downloads  from  Wikiwijs,  the 
number  of  visits,  and  the  number  of  remixes  assembled  with  the  remix  tool  of 
Wikiwijs.  The  numbers  for  2012  are  an  estimate,  based  on  the  results  until  June. 

All  figures  are  per  year. 

Table  12.1:  Development  in  use  of  Wikiwijs,  2010  to  2012 


No.  uploads 

No.  downloads 

No.  visits 

No.  remixes 

2010 

488 

140,000 

222,209 

75 

2011 

806 

345,000 

345,241 

425 

2012  (est.) 

1,800 

500,000 

365,000 

750 

Currently,  40  open  learning  trajectories  are  being  made  available  through 
Wikiwijs.  From  532  external  websites  (mostly  virtual  learning  environments 
[VLEs]),  more  than  28,000  links  to  learning  materials  can  be  found  available  in 
Wikiwijs. 

From  this  experience  in  the  last  two  years,  the  following  lessons  can  be  learned: 

• Having  an  infrastructure  as  described  accelerates  development  of  a national 
platform  like  Wikiwijs.  (In  fact,  one  can  even  question  the  feasibility  of  such 
a platform  without  there  being  such  an  infrastructure.) 

• Parallel  improvements  in  the  infrastructure  are  required  if  delays  in 
development  of  a platform  like  Wikiwijs  are  to  be  avoided. 

• In  other  projects  working  at  improving  their  infrastructure,  Wikiwijs  is 
an  important  stakeholder  but  not  a participant.  The  infrastructure  can 
also  be  used  for  other  activities,  and  the  organisations  responsible  for  the 
components  of  the  infrastructure  have  to  balance  the  demands  of  Wikiwijs 
with  those  of  the  other  stakeholders.  In  cases  of  delay,  Wikiwijs  is  not  able  to 
influence  this. 


170 


References 


Blockhuis,  C.,  Corbalan,  G.,  Ten  Voorde,  M.  and  De  Vries,  H.  (2011). 
Leermiddelenmonitor  10/11.  SLO:  Enschede. 

Schuwer,  R.  and  Mulder,  F.  (2009).  “OpenER,  a Dutch  Initiative  in  Open 

Educational  Resources.”  Open  Learning:  The  Journal  of  Open  and  Distance 
Learning  24(1):  67-76. 

Strijker,  A.  (2010).  “Leerlijnen  en  vocabulaires  in  de  praktijk  (Learning  Trajectories 
and  Vocabularies  in  Practice).”  SLO:  Enschede.  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
redactie.kennisnet.nl/attachments/2214570/Leerlijnen-en-vocabulaires- 
in-de-praktijk.pdf 

Van  Acker,  F.,  van  Buuren,  H.,  Kreijns,  K.  and  Vermeulen,  M.  (2011).  “Why 
Teachers  Use  Digital  Learning  Materials:  The  Role  of  Self-Efficacy, 
Subjective  Norm  and  Attitude.”  Education  and  Information  Technologies. 
Online  First.  DOI:  10.1007/sl0639-011-9181-9. 

Vermeulen,  M.,  Van  Acker,  F.,  Kreijns,  K.  and  van  Buuren,  H.  (2012).  “Leraren 
en  hun  intentie  tot  het  gebruik  van  digitale  leermaterialen  in  hun 
onderwijspraktijk.”  [in  Dutch]  Pedagogische  studied  89(3):  159-173. 

Wikipedia  (2012).  “The  Wisdom  of  Crowds.”  Retrieved  from:  http://en.wikipedia. 
org/wiki/The_Wisdom_of_Crowds 

Wiley,  D.  (2007).  “Open  Education  License  Draft.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 
opencontent  .org/blog/archives/3  5 5 


171 


PART 

IV 


Producing,  Sharing  and 
Using  OER 


Introduction 


Sharing  OER  can  be  a valuable  way  to  disseminate  knowledge,  diversify  teaching 
activities  and  gain  new  insights  into  other  teaching  methods  for  a particular 
subject.  Although  these  knowledge-sharing  activities  may  not  contribute  to  any 
strategic  advantages,  they  can  prevent  teachers  from  reinventing  the  wheel  and 
also  reduce  course  preparation  time.  Sharing  OER  should,  thus,  be  considered 
as  knowledge-sharing  behaviour  and  an  effective  approach  to  helping  teachers 
develop  professionally  and  supporting  their  content  knowledge  and  pedagogical 
skills. 

In  Chapter  13,  “Why  Teachers  Share  Educational  Resources:  A Social  Exchange 
Perspective,”  Van  Acker,  van  Buuren,  Kreijns  and  Vermeulen  identify  the  key 
determinants  of  teachers’  sharing  behaviour  using  social  exchange  theory.  This 
paradigm  posits  three  key  factors  that  determine  people’s  willingness  to  engage  in 
a specific  behaviour:  the  costs  that  are  associated  with  the  behaviour;  the  rewards 
that  can  be  obtained  by  performing  the  behaviour;  and  the  trust  people  have  in 
obtaining  this  reward.  As  a financial  incentive  is  usually  absent  in  the  specific 
context  of  OER,  the  study  discussed  in  this  chapter  considers  altruism,  reputation 
and  reciprocity  as  possible  rewards.  The  results  of  the  study  show  that  knowledge 
self-efficacy,  altruism  and  trust  are  the  most  important  predictors  of  teachers' 
intentions  to  share  educational  resources.  The  study  also  indicates  that  reputation 
and  reciprocity  may  have  an  adverse  impact  on  sharing  intention. 

The  use  of  OER  among  institutions  in  developing  countries  is  often  seen  as  a 
phenomenon  that  will  enable  countries  to  harness  the  potential  of  educational 
resources  to  promote  access  to  education  and  improve  the  quality  of  education 
delivery  systems.  However  educational  systems  in  developing  countries  do 
not  seem  to  be  adopting  and  re-using  OER  on  the  scale  required  to  address  the 
dilemmas  posed  by  the  increase  in  the  demand  for  education.  In  Chapter  14, 

“Can  Open  Educational  Resources  Thrive  in  Closed  Educational  Systems:  Some 


175 


Reflections  on  OER  in  Developing  Countries,”  Umar,  Kodhandaraman  and 
Kanwar  argue  that  the  low  level  of  OER  use  in  many  developing  countries  can 
be  partly  attributed  to  the  tendency  to  regard  them  as  forms  of  technology  that 
are  neutral  and  value-free.  The  authors  contend  that  although  infrastructure 
and  technology  are  important  vis-a-vis  the  capacity  to  develop  and  use  OER, 
there  is  also  a need  to  explore  the  link  between  OER  adoption  and  institutional 
structures,  norms  and  values.  Thus,  one  needs  to  consider  the  socio-political 
and  institutional  contexts  (for  example,  the  flexibility  and  freedom  teachers  and 
students  have  to  adopt  and  use  OER),  and  the  extent  to  which  educational  systems 
and  institutions  are  “open”  or  “closed”  vis-a-vis  OER  adoption  and  utilisation. 

Continuing  the  theme  of  communities  of  learners  using  and  re-using  OER  in  their 
learning,  Downes,  in  Chapter  15,  “The  Role  of  Open  Educational  Resources  in 
Personal  Learning,”  considers  OER  from  two  perspectives:  the  person  who  owns 
or  produces  the  resource,  and  the  person  who  requires  access  to  the  resource.  In 
an  effort  to  address  the  barriers  to  open  education,  a new  form  of  online  learning, 
the  Massive  Open  Online  Course  (MOOC),  was  developed  by  Downes  and  his 
colleagues.  The  MOOC  is  designed  according  to  the  principles  of  self-organising 
networks  of  entities.  A series  of  MOOC-based  courses  have  been  offered  since 
2008.  An  observation  of  these  courses  shows  widespread  production  and  use  of 
OER  within  these  courses.  Downes  suggests  that  by  understanding  the  use  of  OER 
as  “words”  in  a language  used  by  participants  in  a MOOC  to  communicate  with 
each  other  we  can  explain  the  role  of  OER  in  personal  learning. 

Encouraging  collaboration  in  creating  and  sharing  intellectual  capital  in 
higher  education  can  assist  in  improving  quality  and  achieving  long-term  cost- 
effectiveness  in  educational  practice.  While  collaboration  does  not  overcome 
all  the  issues  in  the  complex  OER  agenda,  it  does  offer  educators  a way  to  avoid 
reinventing  the  wheel  and  thus  save  their  time  and  resources.  The  co-creation 
process  can  also  facilitate  professional  development,  knowledge  sharing  and 
the  integration  of  different  social  and  cultural  contexts  into  the  educational 
materials.  In  Chapter  16,  “Towards  a Sustainable  Inter-Institutional  Collaborative 
Framework  for  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER),”  Ng’ambi  and  Luo  examine 
the  development  of  the  African  Health  OER  Network  and  explore  how  sustainable 
inter-institutional  collaboration  can  facilitate  OER  production  and  sharing.  The 
Network  is  a collaborative  project  between  one  university  in  the  United  States,  two 
universities  in  Ghana,  two  universities  in  South  Africa,  and  an  education-based 
non-government  organisation  based  in  South  Africa.  A primary  focus  of  this 
project  is  to  scale  up  teaching  and  learning  capacity  in  institutions  by  creating 
new  learning  materials  and  converting  existing  materials  into  OER. 


176 


CHAPTER 


Why  Teachers  Share  Educational 
Resources:  A Social  Exchange 
Perspective 


Frederik  Van  Acker,  Hans  van  Buuren,  Karel  Kreijns  and 
Marjan  Vermeulen, 

Open  Universiteit  in  the  Netherlands 


Introduction 

In  2009,  the  Dutch  government  launched  the  Wikiwijs  project  to  increase  the  use, 
development  and  sharing  of  digital  learning  materials.  Wikiwijs  mainly  offers 
Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  through  a freely  accessible  website.  Although 
not  all  resources  are  freely  available,  most  of  Wikiwijs's  learning  materials  are 
published  under  an  open  licence.  Even  though  part  of  the  educational  resources 
is  provided  by  the  project  itself,  Wikiwijs  relies  largely  on  voluntary  contributions 
by  individual  teachers  who  develop  digital  learning  materials.  As  most  of  the 
educational  resources  Wikiwijs  offers  come  at  no  cost,  teachers  need  to  be  willing 
to  share  their  own  resources  without  any  financial  compensation. 

In  this  chapter,  we  address  the  issue  of  teachers'  sharing  behaviour  with  respect 
to  OER.  Using  social  exchange  theory  as  a basis  and  empirical  research  on 
knowledge-sharing  behaviour  from  within  this  framework,  we  explore  possible 
determinants  of  OER-sharing  behaviour.  Our  conjectures  regarding  these 
determinants  are  then  tested  empirically  through  a large-scale  survey  study. 

In  organisational  research,  knowledge  sharing  has  been  found  to  be  a critical 
success  factor  for  most  profit  organisations  (e.g.,  Grant  1996;  Davenport  and  Prusak 
1998).  Research  shows,  however,  that  it  is  hard  to  motivate  people  to  use  knowledge- 
sharing systems  that  are  based  on  information  and  communications  technology 
(ICT)  (Cabrera  and  Cabrera  2002).  Moreover,  knowledge-sharing  behaviour 
amongst  teachers  has  received  limited  attention  by  scholars  or  organisational 
experts.  One  reason  for  this  is  that  knowledge  sharing  may  seem  less  important 
in  a non-profit  setting.  Knowledge  may  often  be  considered  of  limited  strategic 
value  to  teachers  or  school  management  as  most  of  the  subject-related  knowledge 
that  teachers  possess  is  passed  on  through  textbooks  or  formal  teacher  training. 
However,  OER  can  be  considered  as  a new  kind  of  knowledge,  which  can  be 
used  to  diversify  teaching  activities  or  to  gain  new  insights  into  other  teaching 


177 


methods  for  a particular  subject.  As  such,  sharing  OER  may  be  a valuable  way  to 
disseminate  knowledge  or  insights.  Although  these  knowledge-sharing  activities 
may  not  contribute  to  any  strategic  advantages,  they  might  prevent  teachers  from 
reinventing  the  wheel.  By  recycling  other  teachers'  ideas,  teaching  activities  may 
improve  and  course  preparation  time  could  possibly  be  reduced.  Sharing  OER 
should,  thus,  be  considered  as  knowledge-sharing  behaviour  and  an  effective 
method  to  help  teachers  with  professional  development  and  to  support  them  in 
improving  their  content  knowledge  and  pedagogical  skills. 


Sharing  OER  as  a Social  Exchange  Process 

An  important  question  asked  by  Cabrera  and  Cabrera  (2005)  is  why  one  should 
share  knowledge,  such  as  OER,  when  it  is  possible  to  “take  a free  ride”  on  the 
OER  other  teachers  have  supplied,  especially  if  sharing  may  at  first  sight  seem  to 
remain  unrewarded. 

According  to  social  exchange  theory  (Homans  1958),  teachers  may  have  motives 
to  share  learning  materials  other  than  financial  rewards.  One  possible  reward 
for  sharing  OER  could  be  the  prestige  a teacher  acquires  or  the  recognition  (i.e., 
the  reputation)  one  gets  for  the  shared  work.  In  the  study  described  below,  social 
exchange  theory  is  used  as  a framework  to  explain  why  teachers  would  want  to 
share  digital  learning  materials.  According  to  this  theory,  it  is  initially  expected 
that  teachers  will  weigh  the  costs  and  benefits  of  sharing,  which  will  in  turn 
determine  whether  or  not  they  will  share. 

Another  construct  in  social  exchange  theory  is  the  concept  of  trust.  Trust  is 
related  to  the  extent  to  which  one  believes  the  rewards  can  actually  be  acquired. 
According  to  Wang  and  Noe  (2010),  social  exchange  theory  has  been  the  most 
commonly  applied  framework  for  studying  knowledge-sharing  behaviour.  As  we 
have  argued  that  sharing  OER  can  be  considered  a form  of  knowledge  sharing,  we 
believe  social  exchange  theory  can  be  successful  in  explaining  teachers'  OER- 
sharing  behaviour  as  well. 

We  will  discuss  the  three  central  concepts  of  social  exchange  theory:  cost,  reward 
and  trust,  and  present  previous  empirical  studies  in  support  of  our  conjectures 
regarding  OER-sharing  behaviour.  We  will  conclude  with  several  hypotheses 
based  on  social  exchange  theory. 

Costs  Involved  in  Sharing  OER 

One  can  assume  that  there  are  different  costs  associated  with  sharing  OER.  A first 
factor  we  identified  is  anxiety  associated  with  sharing.  In  other  contexts  than 
education,  this  anxiety  has  been  associated  with  an  individual's  expectations  to  lose 
a competitive  advantage  (Renzl  2008).  In  the  context  of  OER,  loss  of  a competitive 
advantage  is  rarely  considered  by  teachers  because  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  sharing 
OER  would  lead  to  a reduction  of  one's  value  for  the  organisation.  Yet,  anxiety  with 
respect  to  sharing  OER  may  be  related  to  the  fear  a teacher  experiences  when  his 
or  her  work  is  evaluated  by  others.  Indeed,  in  a study  by  Bakker  et  al.  (2006),  it  was 
found  that  employees  were  less  inclined  to  share  knowledge  with  colleagues  who 
were  perceived  as  very  capable.  That  study  may  suggest  that  employees  are  afraid 
to  share  knowledge  if  they  fear  that  others,  who  they  believe  are  more  capable  than 
they  are,  may  criticise  them  or  depreciate  their  work. 


178 


We  believe  that  teachers  need  to  feel  sufficiently  self-confident  in  order  to  have 
the  intention  to  share  OER.  When  teachers  consider  themselves  to  be  sufficiently 
skilled  in  developing  OER  and  believe  that  their  contributions  will  provide  an 
added  value,  they  will  be  more  inclined  to  share.  This  “knowledge  self-efficacy” 

(or  confidence  in  their  knowledge)  is  considered  a cost  for  two  reasons: 

• A lack  of  knowledge  self-efficacy  may  lead  to  anxiety. 

• A lack  of  pedagogical  and  ICT-related  skills  would  require  an  investment 
on  the  part  of  the  teacher.  In  order  to  be  able  to  effectively  develop  OER,  a 
teacher  would  probably  need  to  invest  time  and  effort  in  training  activities 
with  respect  to  his  or  her  pedagogic  and  ICT  skills,  which  can  be  seen  as  a 
considerable  cost. 

To  summarise,  we  consider  knowledge  self-efficacy  as  a possible  determinant 
of  sharing  intention  in  our  study,  as  previous  research  on  knowledge-sharing 
behaviour  has  confirmed  the  importance  of  this  factor  (e.g.,  Cabrera  et  al.  2006; 
Lee  et  al.  2006). 

A second  cost  is  the  time  invested  in  the  development  of  OER.  Hew  and  Hara  (2007) 
found  in  a qualitative  study  that  one  of  the  most  frequently  cited  costs,  inhibiting 
knowledge  sharing  in  online  communities,  is  employee  concern  about  the  time 
commitment.  We  expect  that  if  teachers  perceive  they  have  invested  a lot  of  time 
in  developing  OER,  they  will  be  less  inclined  to  actually  share  their  OER,  especially 
when  the  benefits  of  sharing  are  considered  to  be  low.  Another  study  also  found  that 
the  more  time  one  expects  to  need  for  sharing  knowledge  through  online  repositories, 
the  less  likely  it  becomes  that  employees  will  actually  share  (Kankanhalli  et  al.  2007). 
Based  on  these  findings,  we  believe  that  when  teachers  perceive  the  sharing  activity  to 
be  an  additional  cost  on  top  of  the  development  cost  itself,  this  reduces  the  likelihood 
of  sharing  OER.  We  call  this  latter  cost  the  “technological  cost,”  which  refers  to 
the  effort  one  must  make  to  use  ICT  tools  to  share  OER  (which  may  be  as  simple  as 
copying  files  to  a CD-ROM  or  a memory  stick  in  the  case  of  sharing  with  a direct 
colleague,  or  logging  into  a Wiki  for  Web-based  OER  sharing). 

Rewards  Involved  in  Sharing  OER 

Although  there  is  no  financial  compensation  involved  in  sharing  OER,  a number 
of  possible  benefits  can  be  identified  which  may  motivate  teachers  to  share.  We 
will  consider  the  benefits  of  reputation,  altruism  and  reciprocity.  Reputation 
refers  to  the  recognition  teachers  could  possibly  receive  from  sharing  their  OER. 
When  other  teachers  perceive  a teacher's  OER  as  valuable,  this  specific  teacher 
may  be  regarded  as  more  capable  than  others.  Wang  and  Noe  (2010)  mention 
that  “impression  management”  may  be  an  important  reason  why  employees 
choose  to  share  knowledge.  Moreover,  several  scholars  (Tiwana  and  Bush  2001; 
Hemetsberger  2002)  believe  that  participants  in  online  communities  may  become 
motivated  to  share  knowledge  through  the  use  of  “reputation  points”  in  online 
communities.  Similarly,  by  sharing  OER,  we  believe  teachers  may  have  a way  to 
show  their  competencies  to  other  colleagues,  thus  improving  their  reputation. 

An  improved  reputation  is  thus  hypothesised  to  be  a possible  reward  of  OER- 
sharing  behaviour. 

Altruism  implies  that  teachers  see  OER  sharing  in  itself  as  pleasant.  Teachers  who 
share  OER  for  altruistic  reasons  generally  have  a good  feeling  about  the  behaviour 


179 


itself.  Altruism  may  be  considered  to  be  an  intrinsically  motivating  factor,  as 
teachers  who  share  because  of  altruistic  motives  generally  feel  no  need  for  any 
external  rewards  to  perform  a behaviour.  This  is  in  stark  contrast  with  reputation, 
which  motivates  people  for  reasons  external  to  the  behaviour  itself. 

We  believe  altruism  may  be  an  important  predictor  of  teachers’  sharing 
intentions,  probably  more  than  reputation,  given  that  previous  studies  have 
shown  that  teachers  are  motivated  primarily  by  intrinsic  factors  (De  Cooman  et 
al.  2007).  Moreover,  some  researchers  believe  that  extrinsic  incentives  may  hinder 
the  free  flow  of  knowledge  in  organisations  (Wasko  and  Faraj  2000)  and  therefore 
the  relative  importance  of  extrinsic  and  intrinsic  motivators  should  be  studied. 
Finally,  in  an  exploratory  study  by  Lee  et  al.  (2006),  the  enjoyment  of  helping 
others  was  found  to  be  one  of  the  most  cited  reasons  for  knowledge  sharing  in 
online  discussion  boards,  providing  empirical  evidence  for  our  assumption  that 
altruism  plays  a key  role  in  OER-sharing  behaviour. 

Reciprocity  implies  that  teachers  share  OER  because  they  believe  others  will  do 
so  as  well.  In  a sense  they  trust  that,  by  sharing  their  OER,  they  set  an  example 
for  other  teachers.  The  effect  of  reciprocity  may  also  be  perceived  in  another 
sense:  that  teachers  who  perceive  that  their  colleagues  share  OER  feel  obliged  to 
do  so  as  well  (this  is  known  as  the  “descriptive  norm”).  We  therefore  believe  that 
reciprocity  is  positively  related  to  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER.  Reciprocity 
can  also  be  considered  as  a cost:  teachers  may  feel  they  are  being  exploited  when 
they  share  their  own  OER  without  receiving  anything  in  return.  In  this  study, 
however,  we  consider  reciprocity  to  be  a possible  positive  determinant  of  sharing 
behaviour.  The  possibility  of  exploitation  will  be  taken  into  account  by  looking  at 
the  impact  of  trust  on  sharing,  which  we  discuss  in  the  next  section. 

Trust  and  Sharing  OER 

Social  exchange  theory  predicts  that,  ultimately,  trust  plays  a role  in  the  decision 
to  perform  a certain  behaviour.  Several  authors  (Mayer  et  al.  1995;  Jones  and 
George  1998;  Dirks  and  Ferrin  2001;  Chiu  et  al.  2006)  state  that  trust  is  an 
important  factor  in  cooperation  and  knowledge  sharing.  Mayer  et  al.  (1995)  define 
trust  as  the  “willingness  of  a party  to  be  vulnerable.”  This  can  be  interpreted  in 
several  ways:  Renzl  (2008)  considers  the  possible  loss  of  an  individual’s  unique 
competencies  as  a result  of  knowledge  sharing  to  be  an  important  factor  which 
hinders  knowledge  sharing.  We  believe  that  by  sharing  OER,  an  individual 
teacher  may  not  risk  losing  his  or  her  uniqueness,  but  we  think  trust  may  affect 
OER-sharing  behaviour  in  other  ways.  In  line  with  Mayer  et  al.’s  view  of  trust  as 
a vulnerability  issue,  we  believe  trust  may  play  a key  role  in  people’s  willingness 
to  share  OER.  The  importance  of  trust  has  thus  far  received  little  attention  in  the 
knowledge-sharing  literature  (Wang  and  Noe  2010). 

In  this  study,  we  consider  trust  in  relation  with  reciprocity  and  with  reputation. 

As  both  reputation  and  reciprocity  can  be  considered  as  extrinsic  factors,  the 
satisfaction  of  these  motivators  depends  on  a third  party,  in  this  case  other  teachers 
or  even  the  school  management.  We  thus  believe  that  the  impact  reputation 
and  reciprocity  have  on  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER  will  strongly  depend 
on  the  trust  teachers  have  that  their  colleagues  will  somehow  contribute  to  the 
satisfaction  of  these  extrinsic  factors  (i.e.,  enhance  their  reputation  and  exchange 
OER).  If  teachers  believe  that  sharing  OER  will  not  be  noticed  by  other  teachers, 


180 


they  will  probably  be  less  likely  to  share  OER  because  this  will  not  strengthen  their 
reputation.  Similarly,  if  teachers  share  because  of  reciprocal  reasons,  they  will  be 
less  inclined  to  do  so  if  they  expect  that  other  teachers  will  not  share  their  OER 
as  well.  This  corresponds  with  the  work  of  Empson  (2001),  who  found  that  fear 
of  exploitation  is  an  important  determinant  of  knowledge  sharing:  not  getting 
something  in  return  will  result  in  a lower  intention  to  share  knowledge. 


The  Current  Study 

In  the  current  study,  we  try  to  identify  determinants  of  a teacher’s  intention  to 
share  OER,  in  order  to  find  out  how  OER-sharing  behaviour  can  be  stimulated. 

In  general,  it  is  expected  that  teachers  are  more  likely  to  share  OER  when  the 
perceived  benefits  outweigh  the  costs.  Trust  will  strengthen  the  relationship 
between  rewards  and  intention  to  share.  This  results  in  the  following  hypotheses: 

Hypothesis  1:  Self-efficacy,  technological  cost  and  development  cost 
will  be  negatively  related  with  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER. 

Hypothesis  2:  Altruism,  reputation  and  reciprocity  will  be  positively 
related  with  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER. 

Hypothesis  3:  The  relationships  of  reputation  and  reciprocity  will 
be  moderated  by  trust.  As  trust  increases,  these  relationships  will 
become  stronger. 

Method 

Sample  and  Procedure 

Teachers  from  primary,  secondary  and  higher  education  were  contacted  through 
an  online  panel  to  participate  in  our  study  (N  = 1,568).  The  distribution  of  our 
sample  with  respect  to  education  type,  age  and  gender  is  shown  in  Table  13.1. 
Based  on  information  from  2009  (CBS  2009),  we  found  the  deviations  from  the 
Dutch  teacher  population  distribution  to  be  relatively  small. 


Table  13.1:  Distribution  of  the  study  sample  with  respect  to  teacher  age  and  gender, 
by  education  type 


Education  type 

Number  in  sample 

% Women 

Median  age  in  years 
(standard  deviation) 

Primary 

629 

82.0 

42.38  (12.73) 

Secondary 

819 

55.2 

44.77  (12.40) 

Higher 

120 

49.2 

41.73  (13.00) 

Measures 

The  dependent  variable  (i.e.,  teachers'  intentions  to  share  OER)  was  measured 
using  one  item  that  could  be  rated  on  a seven-point  response  scale  ranging  from 
fully  agree  to  fully  disagree.  The  item  was:  “When  I develop  digital  learning 
materials  or  when  I adapt  existing  materials,  I would  freely  share  them  with 
others.”  The  other  items,  which  measure  different  aspects  of  costs,  rewards  and 
trust  related  to  sharing  OER,  are  shown  in  Table  13.2. 


181 


For  technological  cost,  altruism,  reputation  and  reciprocity  scale  scores  were 
calculated  by  averaging  the  scores  on  the  constituting  items.  The  internal 
consistency  (Cronbach’s  alpha)  for  these  scales  is  reported  in  Table  13.3  and  was 
considered  satisfactory. 

Table  1 3.2:  Overview  of  the  independent  variables  used  in  this  study 

Note:  The  dimensions  under  study  are  marked  in  bold.  Items  tapping  into  these 
dimensions  are  numbered  1 to  13. 


Item  no. 

Dimension/Item 

SELF-EFFICACY 

1 

The  OER  1 develop  would  have  an  added  value  for  other  teachers 

2 

1 have  the  necessary  ICT  skills  to  develop  OER 

TECHNOLOGICAL  COST 

3 

Sharing  OER  on  the  Internet  (e.g.,  on  a website  or  through  Wikiwijs)  would  require  little  effort 

4 

Sharing  OER  with  my  colleagues  at  school  would  require  little  effort 

DEVELOPMENT  COST 

5 

It  will  take  a lot  of  time  to  develop  and  share  OER 

ALTRUISM 

6 

1 like  to  share  OER  with  others 

7 

Sharing  OER  with  others  would  make  me  feel  good  about  myself 

REPUTATION 

8 

Other  teachers  will  show  me  more  respect  when  1 share  OER 

9 

My  reputation  will  improve  when  1 share  OER  with  other  teachers 

RECIPROCITY 

10 

Other  teachers  share  OER  and  therefore  1 feel  1 should  do  the  same 

11 

Other  teachers’  OER  is  very  helpful  for  my  teaching  activities  and  therefore  1 should  share  my  own 
materials  as  well 

TRUST 

12 

1 expect  that  most  other  teachers  would  share  their  OER 

13 

1 expect  that  other  teachers  would  show  their  appreciation  when  1 share  my  OER  with  them 

Analysis 

The  variables  in  this  study  were  standardised  for  analysis.  School  type  was 
recoded  into  two  dummy  variables.  Subsequently,  a hierarchical  regression 
analysis  was  performed  with:  in  a first  step,  the  control  variables  (gender,  age  and 
school  type);  in  the  second  step,  the  independent  variables;  and  in  the  third  step, 
the  interactions  (trust  x reputation  and  trust  x reciprocity). 

Participants  whose  predicted  value,  based  on  the  final  model,  was  more  than  three 
standard  deviations  away  from  the  observed  value,  were  considered  as  outliers.  In 
total,  the  responses  of  144  participants  were  excluded  in  this  way. 

The  analysis  was  then  repeated  without  these  participants  and  reported  in  the 
results  section.  Descriptive  statistics  of  the  sample  on  the  variables  under  study  are 
reported  in  Table  13.3. 


182 


183 


Results 


The  results  of  the  hierarchical  regression  are  given  in  Table  13.4.  The  final  model 
explained  54.7  per  cent  of  the  variance  in  intention  to  share  (F( 15, 1408)  = 115.64, 
p < .001).  The  control  variables  (gender,  school  type  and  age)  together  explain 
1.3  per  cent  of  the  variance  in  intention  to  share.  In  particular,  there  is  a negative 
correlation  between  age  and  the  intention  to  share  OER  with  other  teachers  ((5  = 
-.09,  p < .001).  As  for  school  type,  there  was  a small  significant  difference  between 
primary  and  secondary  education  ((3  = .05,  p = .02),  indicating  that  teachers  in 
secondary  education  seem  more  willing  to  share  OER  than  teachers  in  primary 
education.  Differences  between  men  and  women  with  regard  to  the  intention  to 
share  digital  learning  materials  were  non-significant. 

Of  the  independent  variables  in  the  model,  three  variables  were  non-significant. 
Development  cost,  reciprocity,  and  whether  teachers  have  the  necessary 
knowledge  and  skills  to  develop  digital  learning  materials  did  not  seem  to  impact 
on  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER. 

Of  the  remaining  variables,  the  expectations  that  one's  developed  material  would 
be  useful  for  other  teachers  and  altruism  were  the  most  important  predictors  of 
sharing  intention,  as  indicated  by  the  relatively  high  standardised  regression 
coefficients. 

Table  13.4:  Hierarchical  regression  in  three  steps,  with  intention  to  share  OER  as  the 
dependent  variable3 


Predictor 

A R2 

P 

t/fchange 

P 

Step  1 

.013 

5.76 

<.001 

gender 

.02 

.70 

.49 

age 

-.09 

-4.54 

<.001 

secondary* 

.05 

2.33 

.02 

higher* 

-.01 

-.58 

.56 

Step  2 

.535 

187.04 

<.001 

self-efficacy  1 

.42 

18.98 

<.001 

self-efficacy  2 

-.02 

-.93 

.35 

technological  cost 

.11 

4.56 

<.001 

development  cost 

.01 

.66 

.51 

altruism 

.32 

12.24 

<.001 

reputation 

-.06 

-2.27 

.02 

reciprocity 

-.01 

-.59 

.56 

trust  1 

.14 

5.65 

<.001 

trust  2 

-.07 

-3.06 

<.001 

Step  3 

.000 

.78 

.46 

trust  1 x reciprocity 

.02 

1.09 

.27 

trust  1 x reputation 

-.02 

-1.04 

.30 

a Education  type  was  analysed  with  two  dummy  variables  marked  by  a *.  The  reference 
category  was  primary  education.  Both  secondary  and  higher  education  are  thus  contrasted 
with  primary  education. 


184 


Technological  costs  exhibited  the  expected  relationship  with  intention  as  well:  as 
teachers  expect  sharing  OER  will  require  little  effort,  they  will  be  more  inclined  to 
share. 

Contrary  to  our  hypothesis,  reputation  had  a negative  relationship  with  intention, 
indicating  that  as  teachers  expect  they  will  get  more  respect  when  they  share, 
their  intention  to  do  so  will  actually  decrease. 

Both  trust  with  respect  to  reputation  and  trust  with  respect  to  reciprocity  affected 
teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER.  Teachers  who  believe  their  colleagues  will  share 
as  well  (trust  in  reciprocity)  have  a higher  intention  to  share.  On  the  other  hand, 
teachers  who  believe  their  colleagues  will  show  them  more  respect  when  they 
share  OER  seem  less  inclined  to  actually  share. 

In  the  third  step  of  the  regression,  two  interaction  terms  were  added.  Adding  these 
terms  did  not  significantly  increase  the  explained  variance  in  intention  to  share. 
None  of  the  tested  interactions  was  significant. 


Discussion 

The  impacts  of  our  conjectured  determinants  of  intention  to  share  OER  are 
discussed  below.  As  we  expected  that  costs,  rewards  and  trust  would  be  important 
predictors  of  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER,  the  discussion  is  organised 
according  to  these  dimensions. 

Costs 

Only  two  of  the  four  expected  costs  were  significant  predictors  of  teachers' 
intentions  to  share.  When  teachers  believe  their  OER  could  have  an  added  value 
for  other  teachers  as  well,  they  will  be  more  inclined  to  share  OER.  We  believe 
this  perceived  added  value  depends  on  the  confidence  teachers  have  in  their 
pedagogical  and  ICT  skills.  Therefore,  knowledge  self-efficacy  was  considered  as 
a cost,  as  a lack  of  self-efficacy  would  require  a substantial  investment  on  the  part 
of  the  teacher.  This  first  aspect  of  knowledge  self-efficacy  was  the  most  important 
predictor  of  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER.  The  more  teachers  expect  their  OER 
could  be  useful  for  their  colleagues  as  well,  the  more  they  will  be  inclined  to  share. 

Technological  costs  have  an  impact  on  the  intention  to  share  as  well.  Although 
the  impact  of  technological  cost  was  limited,  it  seems  that  if  teachers  expect 
that  sharing  OER  would  take  little  effort,  they  will  be  more  likely  to  share.  Our 
hypothesis  regarding  the  impact  of  costs  on  the  intention  to  share  is,  however, 
only  partially  confirmed.  The  development  costs  seemed  to  have  no  impact 
on  teachers’  intentions  to  share.  Although  this  cost  may  seem  similar  to  the 
technological  cost,  it  is  different  in  two  important  ways. 

• The  development  cost  is  an  investment  teachers  have  to  make  regardless  of 
their  intention  to  share.  In  order  to  be  effective  teachers,  they  will  probably 
have  to  develop  some  teaching  materials  themselves,  which  could  be  made 
available  as  OER. 


The  technological  cost  may  require  other  skills  than  those  necessary 
to  develop  OER.  Therefore  it  is  not  surprising  that  only  the 
technological  cost  is  considered  when  teachers  decide  to  share  their 


185 


OER.  Moreover,  as  we  have  argued  in  the  introduction,  teachers 
get  no  competitive  (or  financial)  advantage  by  keeping  educational 
resources  for  themselves.  As  the  investment  in  the  development  of  the 
educational  resources  has  already  been  made,  teachers  may  as  well 
share  their  OER  with  other  teachers,  as  long  as  this  can  be  done  with  a 
limited  additional  effort. 

The  second  dimension  of  knowledge  self-efficacy  we  have  considered,  having  the 
necessary  skills  to  develop  OER,  did  not  have  an  impact  on  teachers’  intentions  to 
share.  Although  this  factor  may  not  influence  the  intention  to  share,  possessing 
the  required  skills  to  develop  OER  is  obviously  a necessary  condition  in  order 
for  a teacher  to  be  able  to  share.  The  descriptive  statistics  in  Table  13.3  show  that 
teachers  have  average  scores  on  the  self-efficacy  variable,  indicating  that  teachers’ 
perceived  efficacy  with  regard  to  the  development  of  OER  is  only  average. 

Rewards 

As  expected,  altruism  is  positively  correlated  with  the  intention  of  sharing  OER. 
Teachers  who  like  the  activity  of  sharing  OER  as  such  are  more  inclined  to  actually 
share.  Therefore,  sharing  does  not  have  to  be  motivated  by  financial  incentives 
or  external  pressure.  Sharing  in  itself,  with  the  positive  emotions  teachers 
experience  when  sharing,  seems  to  be  a sufficient  motivation  for  them  to  show 
this  behaviour.  More  importantly,  altruism  was  found  to  be  the  second  most 
important  predictor  of  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER. 

As  a second  possible  reward  for  sharing  OER,  we  considered  the  positive  impact 
that  sharing  OER  could  have  on  a teacher’s  reputation.  If  the  shared  OER  are 
valued  by  other  colleagues,  this  could  possibly  be  beneficial  for  the  respect  a 
teacher  receives.  The  results  indicate  that  there  is  a significant  relationship 
between  the  expected  impact  of  sharing  OER  on  reputation  and  intention  to 
share.  This  impact  is,  however,  in  the  opposite  direction  of  what  was  expected. 

As  teachers  indicate  that  they  would  get  more  respect  when  they  share  OER, 
their  likelihood  to  actually  share  seems  to  decrease.  As  the  correlation  between 
reputation  and  intention  is  positive  (in  contrast  with  the  regression  coefficient), 
a suppression  effect  seems  responsible  for  this  result.  Although  the  impact  of 
reputation  was  relatively  limited,  the  unexpected  direction  of  its  relationship 
could  not  be  attributed  to  chance. 

The  relationship  between  reputation  and  intention  to  share  is  hard  to  explain 
from  our  current  results  and  might  possibly  be  due  to  a third  factor  that  was  not 
measured  in  this  study.  Deci  and  Ryan  (1985)  believe  that  extrinsic  rewards  (e.g., 
monetary  incentives  or  a reputation  increase)  can  have  a negative  impact  on 
intrinsic  motivation.  The  limited  effect  of  reputation  on  intention  could  thus  be 
due  to  a lower  intrinsic  motivation  to  share  OER  of  teachers  who  share  for  reasons 
related  to  their  reputation.  This  particular  effect  was  found  in  a study  comparing 
different  types  of  feedback  (e.g.,  a thank-you  message  versus  a relative  ranking  of 
contributors)  in  an  online  knowledge-sharing  system  (Cheshire  and  Antin  2008). 
The  study  showed  that  intrinsically  motivated  contributors  were  not  affected  by 
the  feedback  mechanisms  (i.e.,  their  number  of  contributions  did  not  depend  on 
the  type  of  feedback)  as  compared  to  extrinsically  motivated  contributors  who 
were  affected  by  the  feedback  type. 


186 


Finally,  the  impact  of  reciprocity  on  the  intention  to  share  was  investigated.  The 
analysis  showed  that  the  relationship  between  reciprocity  and  intention  was  not 
significant.  Controlling  for  other  variables  in  the  model,  the  intention  to  share 
does  not  seem  to  depend  on  the  fact  that  other  teachers  share  as  well.  The  fact  that 
other  teachers’  OER  could  be  an  added  value  for  one's  own  teaching  practice  does 
not  seem  to  be  an  incentive  for  teachers  to  share  OER.  Both  this  finding  and  the 
results  regarding  the  impact  of  reputation  are  in  line  with  research  on  teachers’ 
motivation  (De  Cooman  et  al.  2007),  which  found  that  teachers  are  mainly  driven 
by  intrinsic  factors  rather  than  extrinsic  rewards.  Moreover,  other  studies  on 
knowledge-sharing  behaviour  have  failed  to  show  an  effect  of  reciprocity  as  well 
(e.g.,  Lin  et  al.  2009). 

Trust 

Trust  was  introduced  in  this  study  as  a moderator  of  the  relationship  between 
rewards  and  intention.  Both  aspects  of  trust  measured  were  also  found  to  have 
a main  effect  on  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER.  The  confidence  that  other 
teachers  would  share  their  educational  resources  as  well  has  a positive  correlation 
with  the  intention  to  share.  This  may  at  first  seem  inconsistent  with  the  results 
concerning  reciprocity,  which  showed  that  the  intention  of  teachers  to  share  does 
not  depend  on  the  sharing  behaviour  of  other  teachers.  Reciprocity,  however, 
must  be  considered  as  a reason  why  teachers  may  or  may  not  share  OER.  Trust 
with  respect  to  reciprocity,  on  the  other  hand,  indicates  to  what  extent  the 
necessary  conditions  are  met  for  reciprocity  to  play  a role  in  teachers’  intentions 
to  share.  In  the  knowledge-sharing  literature,  trust  often  refers  to  an  aspect  of  the 
organisational  climate.  Our  measure  of  trust  could  possibly  in  part  measure  this 
general  organisational  trust  factor  as  well,  hereby  inflating  the  impact  of  trust 
with  respect  to  reciprocity. 

The  second  aspect  of  trust  that  was  measured  is  the  expectations  teachers  have 
that  other  teacher  will  actually  show  their  appreciation  for  the  shared  OER.  This 
was  considered  as  trust  regarding  the  reputation.  Contrary  to  our  hypothesis,  this 
variable  showed  a negative  association  with  the  intention  to  share.  The  intention 
to  share  decreased  as  teachers’  trust  in  receiving  appreciation  for  their  OER 
increased.  Correlations  between  this  aspect  of  trust  and  reputation  were  fairly 
high,  indicating  that  participants  interpreted  these  items  similarly,  even  though 
the  trust  item  stressed  the  aspect  of  actually  receiving  respect  or  recognition. 

The  Moderating  Role  of  Trust  in  the  Relationship  Between  Rewards 
and  Sharing 

Our  data  do  not  support  the  importance  of  trust  in  the  relationship  between 
rewards  and  intention  to  share.  Almost  no  additional  variance  was  explained 
when  the  interactions  were  added  to  the  model.  As  reciprocity  played  no 
significant  role  in  explaining  teachers’  intentions,  it  is  of  little  surprise  that  the 
impact  of  reciprocity  does  not  depend  on  trust.  The  fact  that  we  failed  to  show 
a significant  moderating  effect  of  trust  with  respect  to  reputation  could  be  due 
to  the  limited  impact  of  reputation  as  such  or,  as  already  mentioned,  to  the 
operationalisation  of  this  aspect  of  trust  which  was  similar  to  the  reputation 
items. 


187 


Implications  for  Practice  and  Conclusions 

Knowledge  of  the  key  determinants  of  sharing  OER  by  teachers  is  crucial  for 
initiatives  such  as  Wikiwijs.  Knowing  why  teachers  voluntarily  share  OER  can 
help  with  creating  Web-based  environments  and  strategic  policies  that  foster 
sharing  behaviour.  Websites  such  as  www.Wikiwijs.nl  could  use  status  points  to 
enhance  reputation,  or  users  could  be  encouraged  to  evaluate  learning  materials, 
thereby  showing  recognition  for  the  shared  materials. 

However,  although  such  tools  may  seem  favourable  from  an  intuitive  point  of 
view,  the  results  of  this  study  show  that  such  a strategy  may  not  be  very  effective 
in  promoting  the  sharing  behaviour  of  most  teachers.  An  improved  reputation 
even  seems  to  have  an  adverse  effect  on  teachers’  intentions  to  share  OER. 

The  most  important  predictor  in  the  model  proved  to  be  knowledge  self-efficacy. 
When  teachers  believe  that  their  OER  has  an  added  value  for  others,  they  will  be 
more  inclined  to  share.  In  this  sense,  we  believe  that  online  tools  that  show  the 
appreciation  for  a certain  resource  may  contribute  to  the  visibility  of  the  resource’s 
use.  Next  to  the  download  statistics  indicating  how  often  a document  or  image 
has  been  downloaded,  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  evaluation  of  the  material 
itself.  If  teachers  notice  that  their  shared  OER  are  also  used  and  appreciated,  they 
will  likely  be  more  inclined  to  share  their  learning  materials  in  the  future.  This 
may  seem  in  contradiction  with  the  finding  that  reputation  has  a negative  effect 
on  sharing  behaviour.  However,  in  this  case  the  OER  itself  is  evaluated  and  not  the 
developer.  The  appreciation  should  therefore  instead  be  shown  for  the  OER  itself 
rather  than  in  the  form  of  status  points  for  the  teacher  who  developed  them. 


Implications  for  Practice 

It  seems  that  altruistic  motives  play  a key  role  in  teachers'  intentions  to  share 
OER.  This  implies  that  teachers  enjoy  the  behaviour  as  such,  without  the  need 
for  any  extrinsic  incentives.  It  must  also  be  noted  that  some  scholars  believe 
that  providing  extrinsic  motivators  to  intrinsically  motivated  people  can  have  a 
detrimental  effect  on  motivation.  Our  results  therefore  suggest  that  motivating 
teachers  to  share  OER  should  focus  on  intrinsic  aspects  of  the  behaviour.  An 
interesting  finding,  though,  is  that  trust  in  other  teachers’  sharing  behaviour 
seems  to  impact  intention  as  well.  Although  the  impact  of  that  was  more 
limited,  it  was  the  third  most  important  predictor.  Moreover,  as  our  descriptive 
statistics  suggest,  while  most  teachers  have  a strong  intention  to  share  OER,  they 
nonetheless  seem  to  have  less  confidence  in  their  colleagues  with  respect  to 
sharing  OER. 

We  believe  this  discrepancy  should  be  made  apparent  in  order  to  motivate 
teachers  to  share  their  OER.  We  believe  that  the  more  teachers  perceive  that  other 
teachers  share  as  well,  the  more  they  will  be  inclined  to  share  themselves.  In 
other  words,  sharing  OER  will  thus  be  increasingly  considered  as  the  norm.  OER 
initiatives  should  therefore  try  showing  that  there  is  a great  willingness  to  share. 
Websites  could  use  tools  to  indicate  how  much  new  material  is  added  by  fellow 
teachers  in  a given  period. 

Although  the  costs  involved  in  sharing  OER  seemed  to  play  only  a limited  role, 
our  results  suggest  that  the  more  teachers  perceive  sharing  OER  to  be  effortless,  the 


188 


more  they  will  be  inclined  to  share.  Online  repositories  for  OER,  such  as  Wikiwijs, 
may  help  contribute  to  the  ease  of  spreading  OER,  but  should  also  be  developed  in 
such  a way  that  uploading  new  materials  is  relatively  effortless. 

Finally,  sufficient  ICT  and  pedagogical  knowledge  and  skills  are  necessary 
conditions  to  enable  teachers  to  develop  OER.  Although  these  skills  did  not  seem 
to  correlate  with  teachers  intentions  to  share  OER,  they  are  still  a key  determinant 
in  the  development  of  digital  educational  resources.  In  addition,  previous  research 
regarding  the  use  of  digital  learning  materials  showed  that  self-efficacy  is  an 
important  determinant  of  the  use  of  digital  learning  materials  in  teaching  practice 
(Kreijns  et  al.  2011;  Van  Acker  et  al.  2011).  Teachers’  knowledge  and  skills  with 
respect  to  developing  and  using  OER  should  thus  receive  the  necessary  attention 
as  well. 

In  conclusion,  it  seems  that  teachers’  intention  to  share  OER  is  determined  mainly 
by  intrinsic  factors  such  as  altruism.  Extrinsic  reward  systems  may  therefore  yield 
limited  results  with  respect  to  increasing  teachers’  willingness  to  share  OER,  or 
may  even  have  an  adverse  impact. 

Limitations  and  Future  Research 

The  aim  of  our  study  was  to  find  possible  moderating  effects  of  trust  on  the 
relationship  between  several  potential  determinants  of  teachers’  intention  to 
share  OER.  Although  a quantitative  approach  seems  best  suited  to  test  this  kind 
of  hypotheses,  we  believe  the  exploratory  character  of  this  study  could  also  have 
benefited  from  a more  qualitative  approach.  Therefore,  we  suggest  conducting 
further  studies  based  on  social  exchange  theory,  to  explore  other  determinants 
of  OER-sharing  intentions.  Moreover,  such  a qualitative  approach  could  also  help 
to  explain  some  of  the  unexpected  findings  from  our  study,  such  as  the  negative 
relationship  between  reputation  and  intention  to  share. 

Finally,  although  our  results  show  that  trust  is  involved  in  the  decision  to  share 
OER,  future  research  could  focus  on  other  aspects  of  trust  that  could  possibly 
impact  on  sharing  behaviour.  We  believe  that  one  issue  that  deserves  more 
attention  is  the  vulnerability  aspect,  with  respect  to  knowledge  and  skills,  to 
which  teachers  are  exposed  when  they  share  educational  resources. 


References 

Bakker,  M.,  Leenders,  R.T.  A.J.,  Gabbay,  S.M.,  Kratzer,  J.  and  Van  Engelen,  J.M.L. 
(2006).  “Is  Trust  Really  Social  Capital?  Knowledge  Sharing  in  Product 
Development  Projects.”  The  Learning  Organization  13(6):  594-605. 

Cabrera,  A.  and  Cabrera,  E.F.  (2002).  “Knowledge-Sharing  Dilemmas.” 
Organization  Studies  23(5):  687-710. 

Cabrera,  A.,  Collins,  W.C.  and  Salgado,  J.F.  (2006).  “Determinants  of  Individual 
Engagement  in  Knowledge  Sharing  ."International  Journal  of  Human 
Resources  Management  17(2):  245-264. 

Cabrera,  E.F.  and  Cabrera,  A.  (2005).  “Fostering  Knowledge  Sharing  Through 
People  Management  Practices.”  International  Journal  of  Human  Resource 
Management  16:  720-735. 


189 


CBS  (2009).  Statline.  Retrieved  from  the  Centraal  Bureau  voor  de  Statistiek 

website  at:  http://statline.cbs.nl/StatWeb/publication/?VW=T&DM=S 
LNL&PA=71814ned&Dl=a&D2=803-826&D3=l,3,5-6&HD=110523- 
1422&HDR=G2,T&STB=G1 

Cheshire,  C.  and  Antin,  J.  (2008).  “The  Social  Psychological  Effects  of  Feedback 
on  the  Production  of  Internet  Information  Pools.”  Journal  of  Computer- 
Mediated  Communication  13:  705-727. 

Chiu,  C-M.,  Hsu,  M-H.  and  Wang,  E.T.G.  (2006).  “Understanding  Knowledge 
Sharing  in  Virtuel  Communities:  An  Integration  of  Social  Capital  and 
Socialcognitive  Theories.”  Decision  Support  Systems  42:  1872-1888. 

Davenport,  T.H.  and  Prusak,  L.  (1998).  Working  Knowledge:  How  Organizations 
Manage  What  They  Know.  Harvard  Business  School  Press:  Boston. 

Deci,  E.L.  and  Ryan,  R.M.  (1985).  Intrinsic  Motivation  and  Self-Determination  in 
Human  Behavior.  Plenum  Press:  New  York. 

De  Cooman,  R.,  De  Gieter,  S.,  Pepermans,  R.,  Du  Bois,  C.,  Caers,  R.  and  Jegers,  M. 
(2007).  “Graduate  Teacher  Motivation  for  Choosing  a Job  in  Education.” 
International  Journal  for  Educational  and  Vocational  Guidance  7(2):  123-136. 

Dirks,  K.  and  Perrin,  D.  (2001).  “The  Role  of  Trust  in  Organizational  Settings.” 
Organization  Science  12:  450-467. 

Empson,  L.  (2001).  “Introduction:  Knowledge  Management  in  Professional  Service 
Firms.”  Human  Relations  54(7):  811-817. 

Foss,  N.J.  and  Pedersen,  T.  (2002).  “Transferring  Knowledge  in  MNCs:  The  Role  of 
Sources  of  Subsidiary  Knowledge  and  Organizational  Context.”  Journal  of 
International  Management  8(1):  49-67. 

Grant,  R.M.  (1996).  “Toward  a Knowledge-Based  Theory  of  the  Firm.”  Strategic 
Management  Journal  17:  109-122. 

Hemetsberger,  A.  (2002).  “Fostering  Cooperation  on  the  Internet:  Social  Exchange 
Processes  in  Innovative  Virtual  Consumer  Communities.”  Abstract 
published  in  Advances  in  Consumer  Research  29: 354-356. 

Hew,  K.F.  and  Hara,  N.  (2007).  “Knowledge  Sharing  in  Online  Environments:  A 
Qualitative  Case  Study.”  Journal  of  the  American  Society  for  Information 
Science  and  Technology  58(14):  2310-2324. 

Homans,  G.C.  (1958).  “Social  Behavior  as  Exchange.”  American  Journal  of  Sociology 
63(6):  597-606. 

Jones,  G.R.  and  George,  J.M.  (1998).  “The  Experience  and  Evolution  of  Trust: 

Implications  for  Cooperation  and  Teamwork.”  Academy  of  Management 
Review  23(3):  531-546. 

Kankanhalli,  A.,  Tan,  B.C.Y.  and  Wei,  K.-K.  (2005).  “Contributing  Knowledge 

to  Electronic  Knowledge  Repositories:  An  Empirical  Investigation.”  MIS 
Quarterly  29(1):  113-143. 

Kreijns,  K.,  van  Buuren,  H.,  Van  Acker,  F.  and  Vermeulen,  M.  (2011).  “Why  Are 
Teachers  Reluctant  to  Integrate  ICT  in  Their  Pedagogical  Practices?  The 
Use  of  Digital  Learning  Materials  in  Education.”  Annual  Meeting  of  the 
American  Educational  Research  Association,  8-12  April  2011,  New  Orleans. 


190 


Lee,  M.K.O.,  Cheung,  C.M.K.,  Lim,  K.H.  and  Sia,  C.L.  (2006).  “Understanding 
Customer  Knowledge  Sharing  in  Web-Based  Discussion  Boards.  An 
Exploratory  Study Internet  Research  16(3):  289-303. 

Lin,  M-J.  J.,  Hung,  S-W.  and  Chen,  C-J.  (2009).  “Fostering  the  Determinants  of 
Knowledge  Sharing  in  Professional  Virtual  Communities.”  Computers  in 
Human  Behavior  25:  292-939. 

Mayer,  R.C.,  Davis,  J.H.  and  Schoorman,  F.D.  (1995).  “An  Integrative  Model  of 
Organizational  Trust.”  Academy  of  Management  Review  20(3):  709-734. 

Renzl,  B.  (2008).  “Trust  in  Management  and  Knowledge  Sharing:  The  Mediating 
Effects  of  Fear  and  Knowledge  Documentation.”  Omega  36(2):  206-220. 

Tiwana,  A.  and  Bush,  A.  (2001).  “A  Social  Exchange  Architecture  for  Distributed 
Web  Communities.”  Journal  of  Knowledge  Management  5(3):  242-248. 

Van  Acker,  F.,  van  Buuren,  H.,  Kreijns,  K.  and  Vermeulen,  M.  (2011).  “Why 
Teachers  Use  Digital  Learning  Materials:  The  Role  of  Self-Efficacy, 
Subjective  Norm  and  Attitude.”  Education  and  Information  Technologies. 
Online  First.  DOI:  10.1007/sl0639-011-9181-9. 

Wang,  S.  and  Noe,  R.  (2010).  “Knowledge  Sharing:  A Review  and  Directions  for 
Future  Research.”  Human  Resource  Management  Review  20: 115-131. 

Wasko,  M.  and  Faraj,  S.  (2000).  “‘It  Is  What  One  Does’:  Why  People  Participate  and 
Help  Others  in  Electronic  Communities  of  Practice.”  Journal  of  Strategic 
Information  Systems  9: 155-173. 

Wu,  W.-L.,  Hsu,  B.-F.  and  Yeh,  R.-S.  (2007).  “Fostering  the  Determinants  of 

Knowledge  Transfer:  A Team-Level  Analysis.”  Journal  of  Information  Science 
33(3):  326-339. 


191 


CHAPTER 


Can  Open  Educational  Resources 
Thrive  in  Closed  Educational 
Systems?  Some  Reflections  on 
OER  in  Developing  Countries 


Abdurrahman  Umar,  Balasubramanian  Kodhandaraman 
and  Asha  Kanwar, 

Commonwealth  of  Learning 


Introduction 

The  importance  of  the  OER  movement  in  democratising  education,  together 
with  the  growing  awareness  and  re-use  of  OER  among  institutions  in  developing 
countries  is  often  seen  as  a phenomenon  that  will  enable  countries  to  harness 
the  potential  of  OER  to  promote  access  to  education  and  improve  the  quality  of 
their  education  delivery  systems  (UNESCO  2002;  UNESCO-IIEP  2005).  Elowever, 
despite  the  apparent  advantages  of  OER  as  articulated  by  many  scholars  and 
international  agencies  such  as  UNESCO  and  the  Commonwealth  of  Learning 
(COL),  educational  systems  in  developing  countries  do  not  seem  to  be  adopting 
and  re-using  OER  on  a mass  scale  to  address  the  problems  posed  by  the  geometric 
increase  in  the  social  demand  for  education  — particularly  higher  education  — to 
enhance  the  quality  of  their  educational  programmes. 

Added  to  this  is  the  potential  for  widening  the  existing  “digital  divide,”  with 
institutions  and  agencies  in  the  developed  world  seeming  to  lead  OER  production 
while  their  counterparts  in  the  developing  world  seem  to  be  mere  consumers 
of  OER.  Huge  disparities  already  exist  between  the  developed  and  developing 
countries  in  the  availability  of,  and  access  to,  information  and  communication 
technologies  (ICTs).  For  example,  there  are  80  Internet  users  per  100  in  North 
America  while  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  the  number  drops  to  a mere  10  per  100  (ITU 
2009). 

The  low  level  of  OER  re-use  has  become  a significant  part  of  scholarly  discussion. 

A number  of  scholars  have  sought  to  identify  the  factors  that  hinder  OER  adoption 
and  re-use  in  the  developing  world  (UNESCO-IIEP  2005;  Larson  and  Murray 
2008;  Hatakka  2009).  Although  these  scholars,  and  forums  such  as  the  UNESCO 
-IIEP’s  discussion  Forum  on  OER  for  Higher  Education,  have  provided  very  useful 
insights  into  the  range  of  factors  that  hinder  or  promote  OER  adoption  and  re-use 


193 


in  developing  countries,  there  has  been  a tendency  to  overlook  the  socio-cultural 
contexts  in  which  institutions  operate  and  the  centralised,  closed  organisational 
structures  and  systems  that  characterise  them. 

This  chapter’s  main  concern  is  to  emphasise  the  importance  of  analysing  the 
aforementioned  organisational  structures  and  systems,  including  the  dominant 
pedagogical  values  and  traditions  of  educational  institutions  in  the  developing 
world,  in  the  ongoing  attempt  to  identify  and  address  the  major  impediments  to 
OER  development,  adoption  and  re-use.  It  is  argued  that  although  infrastructure 
and  technology  are  important  vis-a-vis  the  capacity  to  develop  and/or  use  OER, 
there  is  the  need  to  explore  the  organic  link  between  OER  adoption/re-use  and  the 
organisational/institutional  structures  of  educational  systems  in  the  developing 
world  and  their  dominant  pedagogical  norms  and  values. 

The  chapter  has  four  main  sections: 

• The  first  section  briefly  discusses  the  concept  of  OER  and  the  impediments 
to  their  use  in  the  developing  world  as  articulated  in  the  literature. 

• The  second  section  is  largely  conceptual  and  discusses  key  concepts  such 
as  power-distance,  centralisation  versus  decentralisation,  and  the  related 
concepts  of  open  and  closed  educational  systems  and  how  they  promote 
or  impede  the  re-use  of  OER  in  a sustainable  manner.  It  stresses  the 
significance  of  socio-cultural  contexts  and  institutional  factors  (pedagogical 
values  and  traditions,  policies  and  power  relations  within  institutions)  in 
promoting  or  hindering  OER  adoption  and  re-use  in  developing  countries. 

• The  third  section  is  a brief  discussion  on  promoting  OER  through  the 
development  and  implementation  of  robust  OER  policies  by  institutions 
and  the  need  for  a paradigm  shift  in  pedagogical  values  and  practices  (i.e., 
from  the  “banking”  concept  of  education  to  more  open  systems  of  learning 
and  teaching). 

• The  concluding  section  identifies  the  main  areas  that  need  to  be  addressed 
if  the  use  of  OER  is  to  be  effectively  institutionalised. 


The  Concept  of  OER 

The  concept  of  OER  has  been  defined  in  different  ways  by  different  scholars, 
organisations  and  institutions  (UNESCO  2002;  OPAL  2011).  In  a recent  publication, 
OER  is  defined  as  an  educational  resource  that  incorporates  a licence  facilitating 
“re-use,  and  potentially  adaptation,  without  first  requesting  permission  from 
the  copyright  holder”  (COL  2011,  p.  5).  In  an  earlier  paper  (Kanwar  et  al.  2010), 
we  contended  that  much  of  OER  discourse  is  premised  on  the  pre-eminence  of 
technology  in  OER  development,  production,  and  re-use  “and  there  is  rarely  any 
discussion  on  issues  such  as  stakeholder  engagement  and  the  politics  of  power.” 

Drawing  on  Castells'  (2009)  notion  of  network-making  power  and  the  concept  of 
“domestication”  as  proposed  by  Silverstone  et  al.  (1992),  we  defined  the  use  of  OER  as: 

“an  empowerment  process,  driven  by  technology  in  which  various 
types  of  stakeholders  are  able  to  interact,  collaborate,  create  and  use 
materials  and  processes,  that  are  freely  available,  for  enhancing  access, 
reducing  costs  and  improving  the  quality  of  education  at  all  levels.” 


194 


Power  is  central  to  this  definition.  In  our  view,  the  “open”  in  OER  draws  attention 
to  not  only  the  technological  dimension  but  also  the  governance  dimension  as 
well  — that  is,  the  institutionalisation  process  which  enables  all  stakeholders  to 
collaborate  on  equal  terms.  Hence,  our  conceptualisation  of  the  use  of  OER  as  an 
empowerment  process  facilitated  by  technology.  This  point  is  important  in  the 
context  of  the  current  predicament  of  most  users  of  OER  in  Africa,  South  Asia  and 
Latin  America  who  are  unwittingly  transformed  into  mere  consumers  of  OER 
produced  by  institutions  in  the  developed  world. 


OER  in  Developing  Countries:  Impediments 

Although  awareness  of  the  open  content  movement  is  growing  in  developing 
countries  and  a number  of  institutions  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America  are 
producing,  adopting  and  re-using  OER,  most  OER  originate  from  developed 
countries  such  as  the  United  States  (e.g.,  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology 
[MIT's]  OpenCourseWare,  Rice  University’s  Connexions,  Carnegie  Mellon’s 
Open  Learning  Initiative  and  the  Open  University  UK’s  OpenLearn).  The  digital 
divide,  which  characterises  the  development  and  use  of  ICTs,  is  also  evident  in 
the  production  and  use  of  OER  (Johnstone  2005;  Wiley  2007;  Hatakka  2009).  For 
example,  Africa  accounts  for  only  1 per  cent  of  content  produced  globally;  this 
figure  drops  to  0.4  per  cent  if  South  Africa  is  excluded. 

Wiley  (2007)  estimated  that  there  were  over  2,500  open  access  courses  that 
educational  institutions  in  developing  and  developed  countries  could  use,  and 
MIT’s  OpenCourseWare  had  no  less  than  1,800  courses.  Given  that  one  of  the 
key  problems  facing  educational  institutions  in  developing  countries  is  how 
to  democratise  access  to  education  in  the  context  of  the  dearth  of  good  quality 
resources  and  inadequate  facilities,  these  countries  ought  to  be  intensive  users  of 
OER.  Some  of  the  potential  advantages  of  OER  include: 

1.  Since  course  development  is  so  resource  intensive,  OER  help  developing 
countries  save  course-authoring  time  and  money. 

2.  OER  foster  the  exchange  of  global  knowledge. 

3.  OER  help  forge  south-north  and  south-south  linkages. 

4.  Online  collaborative  OER  development  supports  capacity  building  in  the 
developing  world,  thereby  bridging  the  digital  divide. 

5.  Collaborative  OER  development  encourages  the  preservation  and 
dissemination  of  indigenous  knowledge. 

6.  The  availability  of  high-quality  OER  can  raise  the  quality  of  education  at  all 
levels  (Kanwar  et  al.  2010). 

Given  these  potential  advantages,  why  have  institutions  in  developing  countries 
failed  to  harness  the  potential  of  open  content?  If  OER  are  to  be  used  to  promote 
access  and  improve  the  quality  of  education,  it  is  essential  to  understand  the 
contexts  in  which  educational  institutions  in  developing  countries  operate, 
particularly  the  character  of  the  educational  systems,  their  culture  and  traditions. 
The  low  level  of  OER  adoption  and  utilisation  by  developing  countries  is  part  of 
the  important  discourse  of  the  OER  movement  (Unwin  2005;  Joyce  2007;  Larson 
and  Murray  2008).  Based  on  a review  of  the  literature  on  OER,  Hatakka  (2009) 


195 


identified  and  empirically  investigated  the  most  often  cited  impediments  to  the 
re-use  of  OER  as  follows: 

• Language:  the  language  used  to  develop  the  content  or  the  style  of  the 
language 

• Relevance:  the  extent  to  which  OER  is  appropriate  to  the  cultural  milieu  of 
developing  countries 

• Access:  availability  of  open  content  and  the  ability  to  find  suitable  resources 

• Technical  resources:  adequate  infrastructure  including  hardware  and 
software 

• Quality:  the  quality  of  the  information  and  knowledge  contained  in  the 
OER  and  how  trustworthy  its  source  is 

• Intellectual  property:  copyright  issues 

The  subjects  of  Hatakka’s  study  were  teachers  from  Dhaka,  Bangladesh,  content 
developers  at  the  university  of  Colombo,  and  users  of  UNESCO’s  Open  Training 
Platform  (OTP).  Apart  from  the  above  commonly  identified  factors  that  impede 
OER  re-use,  his  investigation  revealed  four  additional  factors:  OER  awareness, 
computer  literacy,  teaching  capacity,  and  teaching  practice  and  traditions 
(Hatakka  2009,  pp.  6-7).  Although  these  factors  are  important,  we  wish  to 
emphasise  the  importance  of  the  organisational  structure  of  educational  systems 
and  the  pedagogical  values  and  traditions  underpinning  their  operations.  In  the 
later  sections  of  the  chapter,  we  discuss  educational  systems  and  institutions  and 
the  paradigmatic  stature  that  the  “banking”  concept  of  education  has  attained 
in  most  developing  countries  (Freirel970),  of  which  Hatakka’s  (2009)  “teaching 
practices  and  traditions”  are  a part. 

There  are  many  emergent  examples  of  OER  use  in  different  parts  of  Africa,  Asia  and 
Latin  America,  which  have  an  immense  potential  for  scaling  up  and  replication, 
but  these  are  still  isolated  instances  that  have  yet  to  become  a mass  movement. 

The  most  notable  of  these  is  the  Teacher  Education  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  (TESSA) 
project.  TESSA  is  a consortium  of  18  institutions  in  nine  countries  in  Africa,  the  Open 
University  UK,  the  BBC  World  Trust  and  the  Commonwealth  of  Learning.  TESSA  has 
developed  and  disseminated  high-quality  OER  in  online  and  print  formats  made  up 
of  75  study  units  and  covering  five  areas  of  the  primary  curriculum:  Science,  Literacy, 
Mathematics,  Social  Studies  and  the  Arts,  and  Life  Skills.  These  have  been  translated 
into  four  languages  and  adapted  and  localised  to  suit  the  unique  cultural  and 
linguistic  contexts  of  the  countries  and  institutions  using  them.  Data  from  partner 
institutions  in  the  nine  countries  indicate  that  TESSA  OER  have  been  integrated  and 
used  in  19  teacher  education  programmes,  with  a combined  enrolment  of  303,300 
teachers  (Wolfenden  et  al.  2010).  Similarly,  the  Indian  Institutes  of  Technology 
(IITs),  in  partnership  with  the  government  of  India,  have  made  all  their  engineering 
and  technology  courses  available  as  OER.  These  open  resources  are  currently  being 
used  by  students  and  faculty  in  over  500  institutions  to  enhance  the  quality  of  their 
learning  and  teaching  respectively  (Kanwar  2011). 

Even  though  the  open  resources  developed  and  disseminated  by  the  TESSA 
consortium  in  Africa  and  the  IITs  in  India  represent  specific  instances  of 
successful  OER  development  and  utilisation,  OER  adoption  and  utilisation  by  the 
developing  world  continue  to  be  slow,  as  demonstrated  by  Hatakka  (2009). 


196 


Analytical  Concept:  OER  and  the  Education  System 

OER  cannot  be  perceived  in  isolation  but  have  to  be  studied  in  the  context  of  the 
education  systems  in  which  they  operate.  Democracy,  governance,  the  status  of 
teachers  and  culture  are  important  determinants  in  the  uptake  of  OER. 

Democracy  and  Governance  in  Education 

The  Marxist  perspectives  of  Althusser,  Freire  and  conflict  theorists  perceive 
education  as  a tool  for  subjection  to  the  ruling  ideology  (Althusser  1971,  pp.  132- 
133).  As  Althusser  says: 

"...  reproduction  of  labour  power  requires  not  only  a reproduction  of 
its  skills,  but  also,  at  the  same  time,  a reproduction  of  its  submission 
to  the  rules  of  the  established  order,  i.e.  a reproduction  of  submission 
to  the  ruling  ideology  for  the  workers,  and  a reproduction  of  the 
ability  to  manipulate  the  ruling  ideology  correctly  for  the  agents 
of  exploitation  and  repression,  so  that  they  too  will  provide  for  the 
domination  of  the  ruling  class.” 

In  contrast,  functionalists  view  education  as  an  institution  contributing  to 
an  ordered  society.  Excessive  bureaucracy,  control,  an  authoritarian  approach 
are  dysfunctions  in  the  system  that  can  be  addressed  through  appropriate 
interventions. 

Democracy  and  academic  freedom  in  education  face  constant  challenges.  The 
role  of  government  in  the  governance  of  education,  particularly  the  centralisation 
of  authority,  is  debated  and  questioned.  While  there  are  certain  advantages  in 
centralisation,  decentralisation  has  to  be  perceived  from  the  broader  ideological 
perspectives  of  democracy,  governance  and  human  rights.  According  to  UNESCO 
(2007,  p.  8): 

“Across  the  world,  decentralization  of  fiscal,  political,  and 
administrative  responsibilities  to  lower  levels  of  government,  local 
institutions,  and  the  private  sector  is  being  attempted  as  a panacea 
to  solve  broader  political,  social  or  economic  problems.  In  parallel, 
governments  are  proposing  educational  decentralization,  as  part 
of  the  sector-wide  reforms.  Implicit  in  these  approaches  is  the 
assumption  that  increased  participation  in  local  schools  would  lead 
to  democratic  governance,  increase  accountability,  and  empower 
communities....  In  the  education  sector  this  belief  has  led  to  such 
policies  as  transferring  decision-making  authority  from  central 
to  local  governments,  increasing  autonomy  for  schools,  enabling 
communities  to  participate  more  effectively  in  school  management 
and  resource  mobilization,  and  offering  incentives  for  private 
providers.  Underlying  all  this  work  is  the  assumption  that  when  the 
provision  or  financing  of  education  is  less  centralized,  benefits  will 
follow:  education  will  become  better,  more  efficient,  more  responsive 
to  local  demands,  and  more  citizens  will  participate.” 

How  far  have  these  strategies  been  adopted  to  realise  an  education  system 
reflecting  freedom,  transparency  and  accountability?  Nordmann  et  al.  (2009) 
developed  a Freedoms  of  Education  Composite  Index  for  Non-Governmental 


197 


Schools  (NGSs)  all  over  the  world.  It  is  a composite  statistical  tool  that  ranks 
countries  from  0 to  100  by  levels  of  freedom.  A score  of  0 represents  complete 
lack  of  freedom,  whereas  a score  of  100  reflects  full  freedom.  The  index  has  been 
developed  based  on  six  criteria: 

1.  Freedom  to  found  and  administer  NGSs 

2.  State’s  obligation  to  finance  NGSs 

3.  Financing  granted  to  NGSs 

4.  Parents'  freedom  of  choice 

5.  Home  schooling 

6.  Autonomy,  including  pedagogical  autonomy 

The  index  revealed  certain  interesting  trends  (Table  14.1). 


Table  14.1:  Freedom  of  Education  Composite  Index  of  Non-Governmental  Schools  (NGSs) 


Levels  of  freedom 

Number  of  countries 

1 

Countries  with  high  level  of  freedom  (score  ranging  from  67  to  100) 

23 

2 

Countries  with  moderate  level  of  freedom  (score  ranging  from  34  to  66) 

33 

3 

Countries  with  low  level  of  freedom  (score  ranging  from  0 to  33) 

44 

Total  number  of  countries 

100 

Source:  Calculated  from  Nordmann  et  al.  (2009) 

If  non-governmental  schools  represent  a decentralisation  process,  the  above  study 
shows  the  predominance  of  centralisation  in  many  countries.  Thus,  freedom 
and  autonomy  are  still  major  challenges  in  the  education  system,  particularly  in 
school  education. 

Higher  education  also  faces  similar  challenges.  A study  by  the  OECD 
(Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development)  mostly  in  developed 
countries  shows  that  only  eight  out  of  14  countries  enjoy  full  autonomy  in  setting 
academic  structure  and  course  content.  Countries  such  as  Japan,  Korea,  Turkey, 
Finland,  Denmark  and  the  Netherlands  have  only  partial  autonomy.  The  report 
argues  (OECD  2003,  p.  75): 

“...  higher  education  is  moving  towards  a new  system  of  governance, 
where  the  power  of  markets  and  the  power  of  the  State  combine 
in  new  ways.  Government  is  generally  withdrawing  from  direct 
management  of  institutions,  yet  at  the  same  time  introducing  new 
forms  of  control  and  influence,  based  largely  on  holding  institutions 
accountable  for  performance  via  powerful  enforcement  mechanisms, 
including  funding  and  quality  recognition.  Institutions  that  can  no 
longer  take  their  continued  existence  for  granted  are  having  to  work 
hard  both  to  meet  the  criteria  embedded  in  funding  and  regulatory 
regimes  and  at  the  same  time  to  strengthen  their  position  in  the 
marketplace.” 

The  report  also  offers  the  following  suggestion: 

“Government  retains  a strong  interest  in,  and  a complex  range  of 
objectives  for,  higher  education.  It  will  need  to  regulate  the  sector,  to 
adopt  policies  that  promote  national  objectives,  to  provide  incentives 


198 


to  stimulate  appropriate  improvements  by  providers,  to  mobilise 
from  taxpayers  the  resources  needed  to  meet  public  goals  for  higher 
education,  and  to  ensure  equality  of  opportunity  and  equity  in 
access.  Yet  in  doing  all  this,  government  will  need  to  take  care  not 
to  replace  one  potentially  counter-productive  form  of  control  over 
higher  education  with  another.  The  art  of  policy  making  will  in 
future  involve  ensuring  that  public  goals  are  met  in  higher  education 
through  influence  rather  than  direction.” 

A UK  study  concluded  that  autocratic  management  has  led  to  a decline  in  higher 
education  courses  in  terms  of  student  dropout  and  withdrawal  because  of  the 
changes  imposed  by  management  without  proper  staff  and  student  involvement. 
Courses  with  high  student  achievement  and  retention  are  often  the  result 
of  participatory  and  consultative  decision-  making  processes  (Martinez  and 
Maynard  2002). 

Status  of  Teachers  in  the  Education  System 

Teachers  are  important  stakeholders  in  the  education  system.  However  a study 
in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  and  South  Asia  showed  that  “very  sizeable  proportions 
of  primary  school  teachers,  particularly  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa,  have  low 
levels  of  job  satisfaction  and  are  poorly  motivated.  Many  tens  of  millions  of 
children  are  therefore  not  being  taught  properly  and  are  not  receiving  even  a 
minimally  acceptable  education”  (Bennell  and  Akyeampong  2007,  p.  viii).  Poor 
accountability,  weak  policy  environment,  conflicts,  limited  pay  and  career 
progression,  and  heavy  workload  are  some  of  the  reasons  cited  for  the  lack  of 
motivation.  Substantial  numbers  of  teachers  in  some  African  countries  also  suffer 
from  poverty,  poor  working  conditions  and  heavy  workload  (Table  14.2). 


Table  14.2:  Agreement  rates  to  general  statement  of  teachers  regarding  poverty  and 
working  conditions 


Country 

Percentage  of  teachers  who  agreed 
with  the  statement  that  teachers  in 
this  school  come  to  work  hungry 

Percentage  of  teachers  who  agreed 
with  the  statement  that  the  working 
conditions  in  the  schools  are  poor 

Rural  % 

Urban  % 

Rural  % 

Urban  % 

Ghana 

36 

0 

77 

18 

Lesotho 

59 

44 

39 

25 

Sierra  Leone 

100 

100 

75 

45 

Tanzania 

20 

33 

43 

40 

Zambia 

57 

58 

65 

25 

India 

12 

33 

20 

44 

Source:  Bennell  and  Akyeampong  (2007) 


Culture  and  Education 

Education  traditions  are  influenced  by  culture  that  shapes  the  norms,  values  and 
expectations  within  the  teacher-student  relationship.  Ho  et  al.  (2004)  point  out 
that  some  cultures  foster  a collectivist  focus  that  strengthens  interdependent 
relations  and  social  responsibility.  In  contrast  Western  civilisation  is  oriented 
towards  the  individualistic  mode  (Table  14.3). 


199 


Table  14.3:  Salient  features  of  collectivist  and  individualist  cultures 


Collectivism 

Individualism 

Fosters  interdependence  and  group  success 

Fosters  independence  and  individual  achievement 

Promotes  adherence  to  norms,  respect  for  authority/ 
elders,  group  consensus 

Promotes  self-expression,  individual  thinking  and 
personal  choice 

Associated  with  stable,  hierarchical  roles 

Associated  with  egalitarian  relationships  and  flexibility 
in  roles 

Associated  with  shared  property  and  group  ownership 

Associated  with  private  property  and  individual 
ownership 

Source:  Ho  etal.  (2004,  p.  5) 

The  collectivist  culture  has  a strong  teacher-centric  approach.  The  Confucian 
culture  of  Southeast  Asia  and  China  and  the  Guru-Shishya  approach  of  the  Indian 
sub-continent  are  characterised  by  a strong  reverence  for  teachers.  On  the  other 
hand,  Western  cultures  emphasise  the  dialogic  approach  that  is  student-centric. 
Such  differences  have  an  impact  on  the  teaching  and  learning  environment  (Table 
14.4). 


Table  14.4:  Aspects  of  teaching  and  learning  in  collectivist  and  individualist  cultures 


In  collectivist  cultures: 

In  Individualist  cultures: 

Education 

1 . Education  is  a way  of  gaining  prestige  in 

1. 

Education  is  a way  of  improving  one's 

one’s  social  environment  and  of  joining  a 

economic  worth  and  self-respect 

higher  status  group. 

based  on  ability  and  competence. 

Learning  Attitudes 

1 . Students  expect  to  learn  “how  to  do.” 

1. 

Students  expect  to  learn  “how  to 
learn.” 

2.  There  is  a positive  association  in  society 
with  whatever  is  rooted  in  tradition. 

2. 

There  is  a positive  association  in 
society  with  whatever  is  “new.” 

Social  Interactions 

1 . Individual  students  will  only  speak  up  in 

1. 

Individual  students  will  only  speak 

class  when  called  upon  personally  by  the 

up  in  class  in  response  to  a general 

teacher. 

invitation  by  the  teacher. 

2.  Individual  students  will  only  speak  up  in 

2. 

Individual  students  will  speak  up  in  a 

small  groups. 

large  group. 

Harmony  and  Conflict 

1.  Formal  harmony  in  learning  situations 

1. 

Confrontation  in  learning  situations 

should  be  maintained  at  all  times. 

can  be  salutary;  conflicts  can  be 

2.  Neither  the  teacher  nor  any  student  should 

brought  into  the  open. 

ever  be  made  to  lose  face. 

2. 

Face-consciousness  is  weak. 

Source:  Ho  et  al.  (2004,  p.  6)  adapted  from  Hofstede  (1986)  and  Chang  and  Chin  (1999) 

It  should  be  noted  that  culture  not  only  influences  education  but  is  influenced  by 
education.  Education  is  also  constantly  challenged  by  technology,  demographic 
factors  and  socio-economic  conditions. 


Promoting  OER  Use  at  the  Institutional  Level 

The  OER  movement  is  a people’s  movement,  founded  on  principles  that  challenge 
the  organisational  values  and  pedagogical  practices  of  most  educational 
institutions  in  the  developing  world  that  still  represent  closed  educational 
systems.  The  principles  of  openness,  sharing  and  collaboration  that  characterise 
the  OER  movement  are  different,  if  not  opposed,  to  the  traditional  “banking” 
concept  of  education  in  which  ownership,  individualism  and  competition 


200 


predominate.  Thus,  if  the  goal  of  promoting  greater  production  and  use  of  OER  is 
to  be  actualised,  it  will  be  necessary  to  critically  examine  the  ways  in  which  the 
centralised,  closed  educational  systems  and  institutions,  with  their  accompanying 
traditional  pedagogical  practices,  may  be  made  to  be  more  OER-friendly.  What 
can  be  done? 

The  first  step  that  needs  to  be  taken  in  this  transformation  is  the  development 
and  implementation  of  institutional  policy  frameworks  that  support  and  promote 
the  production  and  re-use  of  OER.  A key  obstacle  to  the  development  and  re-use 
of  OER  is  the  absence  of  a policy  framework  that  recognises  the  importance  of 
OER  in  promoting  access  and  enhancing  quality,  and  that  knows  how  OER  can 
further  institutional  goals  and  promote  the  professional  growth  of  faculty.  For 
example,  existing  policies  and  practices  pertaining  to  staff  promotion  do  not 
attach  much  importance  to  the  contributions  of  faculty  to  OER  creation,  adoption 
and  re-use.  Thus,  academic  staff  are  not  willing  to  devote  a significant  proportion 
of  their  time  to  OER  (UNESCO-IIEP  2005).  At  present,  it  is  individuals  who  are 
championing  the  use  of  OER. 

Institutional  policies  on  OER  should,  among  other  things: 

• recognise  the  immense  potential  of  the  systematic  and  planned  use  of 
OER  in  transforming  teaching  and  learning,  and  support  the  promotion  of 
access  and  quality  in  a cost-effective  manner; 

• specify  institutional  strategies  for  developing  and  integrating  OER  in 
teaching  and  learning,  as  well  as  the  investment  that  needs  to  be  made  in 
ICT  infrastructure  for  easy  access  by  staff  and  students; 

• provide  adequate  incentives  and  guidelines  to  faculty  to  develop  and  use 
OER  and  support  collaborative  activities  among  faculty  to  do  this  (for 
example,  OER  activities  should  be  given  a rating  comparable  to  research  and 
publishing  and  be  counted  towards  promotion);  and 

• develop  staff  and  students’  capacity  on  how  to  access,  evaluate  and  use  OER; 
and  put  in  place  Quality  Assurance  frameworks  that  will  ensure  high  levels 
of  quality  in  the  integration  of  OER  in  teaching  and  learning. 


Conclusion 

Much  has  been  written  and  studied  about  the  impact  that  OER  has  made  on  the 
education  systems  in  the  developing  countries.  Sadly,  the  general  conclusions 
are  that  OER,  as  a movement,  has  not  made  any  dramatic  transformation  of  the 
educational  provision  in  most  resource-poor  nations  in  the  developing  world.  In 
this  chapter,  we  have  identified  the  major  reasons  for  the  poor  performance  of  this 
initiative  — an  initiative  that  can  offer  so  much,  but  has  delivered  very  little  thus 
far. 

The  main  findings  of  these  studies  summarise  the  challenges: 

a)  Inability  of  the  legacy  systems  to  absorb  changes  - The  education  system  in 
most  developing  nations  is  part  of  their  inheritance  from  a colonial  past. 
These  systems  are  conditioned  by  the  18th-century  European  models  of 
liberal  traditions  that  placed  a high  premium  on  notions  of  autonomy, 
freedom  of  speech,  academic  freedom,  internal  democracy  and  non- 


201 


interference  by  the  governments  that  provided  them  the  funding  for  their 
survival.  These  traditions  and  value  systems  shaped  the  higher  education 
systems  across  the  world  until  the  mid-20th  century,  when  questions  began 
to  be  asked  about  the  massive  expansion  of  higher  education  systems  — 
including  the  meaning  and  purpose  of  higher  education  itself.  As  the  cost 
of  education  went  up  and  government  funding  began  to  dwindle,  questions 
were  also  raised  about  the  accountability  of  the  system.  In  the  last  five 
decades,  the  education  system  has  gone  through  a churning  process,  and  we 
are  witness  to  the  emergence  of  several  new  developments  such  as  Open  and 
Distance  Learning  (ODL),  OER,  eLearning  and  mobile  learning. 

In  its  current  form,  ODL  is  over  four  decades  old.  But  how  universal  has  it 
become?  While  some  of  the  developing  countries  have  made  substantial 
progress,  a vast  majority  of  the  less  developed  nations  in  Asia,  Africa  and 
Latin  America  still  lag  far  behind.  The  reasons  are  not  far  to  seek.  Primarily, 
these  cultures  lack  the  will  to  break  the  shackles  of  the  legacy  systems  that 
have  conditioned  their  approach  to  educational  development;  and  many  of 
them  simply  do  not  have  the  physical  and  intellectual  resources  to  venture 
into  areas  of  educational  reforms  and  transformation. 

b)  Inability  to  prepare  high-quality  learning  materials  - As  the  ODL  system  began 
to  take  root,  the  poor  quality  of  learning  materials  was  perceived  to  be  a 
major  reason  for  ODL's  slow  progress  in  many  countries.  Capacity-building 
efforts  through  donor  support  did  not  make  any  significant  impact.  If 
anything,  these  efforts  only  deepened  the  dependency  co-efficient.  The 
OER  movement  initiated  at  the  beginning  of  the  new  century  was  thought 
to  be  the  panacea  for  all  the  ills  that  afflicted  the  growth  of  the  ODL  system. 
But  did  it  work?  The  available  evidence  does  not  suggest  even  marginal 
success.  As  we  have  noted  in  this  chapter,  the  constraints  were  too  many: 
some  technological,  some  socio-political,  some  cultural.  And,  in  many 
cases,  there  was  a simple  unwillingness  to  seize  the  opportunity  to  integrate 
OER  into  the  domestic  educational  provisions. 

c)  Poverty  and  poor  quality  of  working  conditions  of  teachers  - These  factors  are 
often  held  as  inhibiting  innovation  and  motivation.  While  this  could 
be  accepted  as  a valid  reason  in  part,  the  greater  problem  in  our  view  is  a 
general  unwillingness  among  academics  to  experiment,  take  risks  and  show 
any  significant  entrepreneurship.  Environmental  constraints  like  state 
control  of  education,  cultural  incompatibility  and  absence  of  accountability 
within  the  system  do  certainly  impact  negatively  on  experimentation  and 
innovation,  but  it  should  be  noted  that  many  among  the  developing  nations 
have  broken  away  from  the  traditions  of  the  past  and  made  their  education 
systems  more  dynamic  and  vibrant.  The  ready  availability  of  high-quality 
educational  resources  should  play  a catalytic  role  in  such  environments. 

d)  Dependency  syndrome  - Economic  constraints  can  by  no  means  be  ignored. 
Donor  support  has  done  a world  of  good  for  the  developing  nations 

to  build  capacity  within  their  education  systems.  As  often  happens, 
however,  donor  support  ends  at  some  point,  and  whatever  little  has  been 
achieved  is  never  built  on  and,  in  many  cases,  is  simply  abandoned.  This 
dependency  syndrome  can  be  seen  in  many  different  forms:  inflexible 
academic  structures  and  pedagogical  practices;  inefficient  governance  and 


202 


administrative  processes;  socio-political  and  cultural  constraints;  and  the 
plain  avarice  of  providers  from  the  rich  nations  out  to  commercially  exploit 
the  poor  ones. 

If  OER  has  not  made  an  impact,  it  is  very  easy  to  attribute  this  failure  to  the 
digital  divide,  technology  deficit  or  neo-imperialism.  The  developing  countries 
have  to  accept  the  reality  that  OER  is  a precious  resource  that  they  can  access 
and  use  through  various  adoption,  adaptation  and  translation  approaches. 
However,  because  the  education  system  in  the  developing  countries  is 
accustomed  to  generous  funding  from  a variety  of  sources  and  platforms,  there 
is  likely  an  expectation  of  funding  support  for  OER  use  as  well,  to  strengthen 
infrastructure,  build  capacity  and  help  adoption  and  adaptation. 

Many  lessons  might  be  learned  from  the  ODL  experience  in  India  with  the  Indira 
Gandhi  National  Open  University  (IGNOU),  initiated  almost  a decade  before 
the  OER  movement  was  launched.  Soon  after  the  IGNOU  was  established,  the 
Distance  Education  Council  (DEC)  was  set  up  with  the  mandate  to  promote  the 
ODL  system  in  the  country.  The  conceptual  design  of  the  DEC  was:  the  creation 
of  a central  agency  as  a networking  hub  for  all  distance  education  institutions; 
promotion  of  a partnership  among  them;  and  most  importantly,  the  sharing  of 
programmes  and  courses  as  academic  resources  of  the  system.  A protocol  was 
developed,  setting  out  the  terms  and  conditions  for  drawing  on  a common  pool 
of  accrediting  programmes  and  courses  created  and  offered  by  various  distance 
education  institutions  in  the  country.  The  model  worked  for  some  time.  Then, 
however,  problems  began  to  crop  up,  firstly  because  the  common  pool  consisted 
only  of  IGNOU  programmes,  creating  doubts  about  the  credibility  of  the 
programmes  of  other  institutions.  Using  other  university’s  learning  materials,  it 
was  argued,  was  unacceptable  in  the  context  of  university  autonomy. 

If  detailed  studies  of  the  experience  of  this  initiative  were  conducted,  the  findings 
might  help  guide  how  OER  is  rolled  out.  There  is  much  to  learn  from  how  “open 
education”  has  evolved,  from  correspondence  education  to  the  emergence  of  open 
universities  and  now  to  the  OER  movement  — the  third  generation  of  opening  up 
education. 

In  summary,  we  point  out  that  the  general  trend  in  the  developing  world  is  to  use 
OER  as  a means  of: 

• meeting  a tremendous  demand  for  qualifications  at  all  levels,  secondary  as 
well  as  post-secondary;  OER  are  not  simply  seen  as  a value-add  to  existing 
educational  provision,  but  as  a route  to  earning  credentials;  and 

• reaching  the  unreached  constituencies  in  remote  and  distant  locations 
through  the  use  of  appropriate  technologies  rather  than  computers  alone. 

In  many  developing  countries,  such  as  India,  China  and  Vietnam,  it  is  primarily 
the  state  rather  than  philanthropic  organisations  that  has  come  forward  to 
support  OER  initiatives,  as  is  the  case  in  the  West. 

The  OER  movement  offers  a means  of  overcoming  these  challenges  and  can  help 
transform  the  educational  system  by: 

• Involving  all  stakeholders  in  the  participation,  collaboration,  creation  and 
sharing  of  academic  resources. 


203 


• Encouraging  consumers  to  become  the  producers  of  knowledge  - 
Traditionally,  knowledge  has  flowed  from  industrialised  to  developing 
countries,  from  English  speakers  to  those  who  speak  indigenous  languages 
and  from  teachers  to  students.  The  OER  movement,  by  providing  the 
opportunity  to  re-use  adopt  and  adapt  materials,  can  help  reverse  this  trend. 

• Enabling  us  to  harness  the  wealth  of  tacit  knowledge  across  the  globe  to 
address  the  great  development  challenges  of  our  time. 


References 

Albright,  P.  (2005).  “Final  Report  of  the  Internet  Discussion  Forum  of  the 

International  Institute  for  Educational  Planning.”  International  Institute 
for  Educational  Planning  (IIEP).  Available  at:  www.hewlett.org/Programs/ 
Education/OER/Publications/UNESCO+IIEP+Final.htm 

Althusser,  L.  (1971).  “Ideology  and  Ideological  State  Apparatuses.”  In  Lenin  and 
Philosophy  and  Other  Essays  (Translated  from  French  by  Ben  Brewster). 
Monthly  Review  Press:  London. 

Bennell,  P.  and  Akyeampong,  K.  ( 2007).  “Teacher  Motivation  in  Sub-Saharan 

Africa  and  South  Asia.”  DFID:  Essex.  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www. 

dfid.gov.uk/R4D/PDF/Outputs/policystrategy/researchingtheissuesno71. 

pdf 

Castells,  M.  (2009).  Communication  Power.  Oxford  University  Press:  Oxford. 

Chang,  V.  and  Chin,  K.L.  (1999).  “Cultural  Issues  in  Teaching  and  Learning.” 
Journal  of  the  Australian  and  New  Zealand  Student  Services  Association  14: 
3-16. 

Commonwealth  of  Learning  (COL)  (2011).  “Basic  Guide  to  Open  Educational 
Resources  (OER).”  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.col.org/ 
PublicationDocuments/Basic-Guide-To-OER.pdf 

Freire,  P.  (1970).  Pedagogy  of  the  Oppressed.  Penguin:  London. 

Hatakka,  M.  (2009).  “Build  It  and  They  Will  Come?  Inhibiting  Factors  for  the 
Reuse  of  Open  Content  in  Developing  Countries.”  Electronic  Journal  of 
Information  Systems  in  Developing  Countries  (EJISDC)  37(5):  1-16.  Retrieved 
29  March  2012  from:  www.ejisdc.org/ojs2/index.php/ejisdc/article/ 
viewFile/545/279 

Ho,  E.,  Holmes,  P.  and  Cooper,  J.  (2004).  Review  and  Evaluation  of  International 
Literature  on  Managing  Cultural  Diversity  in  the  Classroom.  University  of 
Waikato,  Hamilton.  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.minedu.govt. 
nz/~/media/MinEdu/Files/EducationSectors/InternationalEducation/ 
ProvidersOflntEd/InternationalismClassRoomStrategies.pdf 

Hofstede,  G.  (1986).  “Cultural  Differences  in  Teaching  and  Learning.”  International 
Journal  of  Intercultural  Relations  10:  301-320. 

International  Telecommunication  Union  (ITU)  (2009).  “ITU  ICT  EYE.”  Retrieved 
29  March  2012  from:  www.itu.int/ITU-D/ICTEYE/Default.aspx 

Johnstone,  S.M.  (2005).  “Open  Education  Resources  Serve  the  World.”  Educause 
Quarterly  28(3):  15-18. 


204 


Joyce,  A.  (2007).  “OECD  Study  of  OER:  Forum  Report.”  UNESCO-IIEP.  Retrieved 
29  March  2012  from:  http://oerwiki.iiep.unesco.0rg/images/e/ea/Oer_ 
forum_report.pdf 

Kanwar,  A.  (2011).  “Democratising  Education  Through  OER:  The  Commonwealth 
Experience.”  In  the  3rd  International  Conference  on  e-Learning: 
Optimizing  and  Empowering  Online  Education,  Bandung, 

Indonesia.  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.col.org/resources/ 
speeches/201  lpresentation/Pages/2011-ll-23.aspx 

Kanwar,  A.,  Balasubramanian,  K.  and  Umar,  A.  (2010).  “Towards  Sustainable  Open 
Education  Resources:  A Perspective  from  the  Global  South.”  The  American 
Journal  of  Distance  Education  24(2):  65-80. 

Larson,  R.C.  and  Murray,  E.  (2008).  “Open  Educational  Resources  for  Blended 
Learning  in  High  Schools:  Overcoming  Impediments  in  Developing 
Countries.”  Journal  for  Asynchronous  Learning  Networks  12:  85-103. 

Martinez,  P.  and  Maynard,  J.  (2002).  “Improving  Colleges:  Why  Courses  Improve 
or  Decline  Over  Time.”  Learning  and  Skill  Development  Agency:  London. 
Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  http://dera.ioe.ac.Uk/10296/l/Improving_ 
colleges.pdf 

Nordmann,  J-D.,  Ponci,  J-D.  and  Fernandez,  A.  (2009).  “Report  2007/2008:  On 
Freedom  of  Education  in  the  World.”  Vol.  I.  OIDEL.  Retrieved  29  March 
2012  from:  www.oidel.org/doc/Rapport_08_09_libertes/english.pdf 

Open  Education  Quality  Initiative  (OPAL)  (2011).  “Beyond  OER:  Shifting 

Focus  to  Open  Educational  Practices.”  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from: 

http://duepublico.uni-duisburg-essen.de/servlets/DerivateServlet/ 

Derivate-25907/OPALReport2011-Beyond-OER.pdf 

OECD  (Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development)  (2003). 
“Education  Policy  Analysis:  Changing  Patterns  of  Governance  in 
Higher  Education.”  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.oecd.org/ 
dataoecd/0/20/3 5 74 7684. pdf 

Silverstone,  R.,  Hirsch,  E.  and  Morley,  D.  (1992).  “Information  and 

Communication  Technologies  and  the  Moral  Economy  of  the 
Household.”  In  Consuming  Technologies:  Media  and  Information  in  Domestic 
Spaces.  Silverstone,  R.  and  Hirsch,  E.  (eds.).  Routledge:  London. 

UNESCO  (2002).  “UNESCO  Promotes  New  Initiative  for  Free  Educational 

Resources  on  the  Internet.”  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.unesco. 
org/education/news_en/080702_free_edu_ress.shtml 

UNESCO-IIEP  (2005).  “Open  Educational  Resources:  Open  Content  for  Higher 
Education.”  Final  forum  report.  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www. 
unesco.org/iiep/virtualuniversity/media/forum/oer_forum_final_report. 
pdf 

Unwin,  T.  (2005).  "Towards  a Framework  for  the  Use  of  ICT  in  Teacher  Training  in 
Africa.”  Open  Learning  20:  113-130. 


205 


Wiley,  D.  (2007).  “On  the  Sustainability  of  Open  Educational  Resource  Initiatives 
in  Higher  Education.”  Paper  commissioned  by  the  OECD’s  Centre  for 
Educational  Research  and  Innovation  (CERI)  for  the  Project  on  Open 
Educational  Resources.  Retrieved  29  March  2012  from:  www.oecd.org/ 
dataoecd/33/9/38645447.pdf 

Wolfenden,  F.,  Umar,  A.,  Aguti,  J.  and  Abdel  Gafar,  A.  (2010).  “Using  OERs  to 
Improve  Teacher  Quality:  Emerging  Findings  from  TESSA.”  In  6th  Pan 
Commonwealth  Forum  on  Open  Learning,  24-28  November  2010,  Kochi, 
India. 


206 


CHAPTER 


The  Role  of  Open  Educational 
Resources  in  Personal  Learning 


Stephen  Downes, 

National  Research  Council  of  Canada 


Introduction 

In  this  chapter,  two  perspectives  of  Open  Educational  Resources  are  considered: 
one  from  the  perspective  of  a person  who  owns  or  produces  the  resource; 
and  the  other  from  the  perspective  of  the  person  who  requires  access  to  the 
resource.  The  former  model,  it  is  argued,  does  not  take  into  account  the  various 
dimensions  of  openness,  and  is  vulnerable  to  various  ways  of  closing  access  to 
resources. 

In  an  effort  to  address  the  barriers  to  open  education,  a new  form  of  online 
learning,  the  Massive  Open  Online  Course  (MOOC),  was  developed  by  me  and 
my  colleagues.  The  original  MOOC  is  designed  according  to  the  principles  of 
self-organising  networks  of  entities.  (I  was  the  originator  of  the  MOOC,  delivering 
the  first  one  with  that  name  with  George  Siemens  in  2008.  It  was  a connectivist 
MOOC,  a form  now  being  distinguised  with  the  term  cMOOC  as  opposed 
to  xMOOCs  that  deliver  courses  using  video  lectures  and  more  traditional 
approaches.) 

A series  of  these  MOOC-based  courses  has  been  offered  since  2008.  An 
observation  of  these  courses  shows  widespread  production  and  use  of  Open 
Educational  Resources  (OER)  within  these  courses. 

It  is  suggested  that  by  understanding  the  use  of  OER  as  “words”  in  a language  used 
by  participants  in  a MOOC  to  communicate  with  each  other,  we  can  explain  the 
role  of  OER  in  personal  learning.  A course  offered  as  a MOOC  instantiates  the 
properties  of  a self-organising  network  and,  as  a result,  is  resistant  to  the  forces 
that  limit  the  effectiveness  of  traditional  OER. 


207 


The  Idea  of  Openness 

The  central  argument  of  this  paper  can  be  summarised  as  follows:  learning  and 
cognition  take  place  in  a network,  and  networks  need  to  be  open  in  order  to 
function;  therefore,  learning  and  cognition  need  to  be  open. 

To  the  former  point  we  address  the  major  tenets  of  the  pedagogical  theory  known 
as  connectivism  (Siemens  2004).  According  to  Siemens: 

“Connectivism  is  the  integration  of  principles  explored  by  chaos, 
network,  and  complexity  and  self-organization  theories....  The 
starting  point  of  connectivism  is  the  individual.  Personal  knowledge  is 
comprised  of  a network,  which  feeds  into  organizations  and  institutions, 
which  in  turn  feed  back  into  the  network,  and  then  continue  to  provide 
learning  to  individual.  This  cycle  of  knowledge  development  (personal 
to  network  to  organization)  allows  learners  to  remain  current  in  their 
field  through  the  connections  they  have  formed.” 

As  Siemens  writes,  “A  network  can  simply  be  defined  as  connections  between 
entities.  Computer  networks,  power  grids,  and  social  networks  all  function 
on  the  simple  principle  that  people,  groups,  systems,  nodes,  entities  can  be 
connected  to  create  an  integrated  whole.”  Connectivism,  as  it  is  typically 
presented,  encompasses  the  description  of  learning  as  it  occurs  in  two  major 
types  of  network.  First,  it  describes  the  conditions  conducive  to  learning  in 
a synaptic  network,  as  is  characteristic  of  the  human  brain  (LeDoux  2002). 

Second,  it  describes  the  conditions  conducive  to  learning  in  a social  network,  as  is 
characteristic  of  a learning  community  (Watts  2003). 

To  the  latter  point  we  address  the  need  of  entities  in  the  network  to  be  able  to 
communicate  in  order  for  the  network  to  function.  A network  is  not  simply  a 
system  in  which  the  entities  are  joined  or  related  in  some  way.  For  a connection  to 
exist,  it  must  be  possible  for  a change  of  state  in  one  entity  to  result  in,  or  have  as  a 
consequence,  a change  of  state  in  another  entity.  In  a simple  case  — for  example,  a 
Hopfield  net  — one  entity  in  the  network  may  exhibit  an  excitatory  or  inhibitory 
effect  on  the  other  (Hopfield  and  Tank  1986). 

Openness,  then,  is  in  the  first  instance  the  capacity  of  one  entity  in  a network  to 
change  or  influence  the  state  of  another  entity  in  the  network.  However,  in  the 
fields  of  content  management  and  online  learning,  the  concepts  of  “open”  and 
“Open  Educational  Resources”  have  had  a much  wider  connotation. 

Much  of  what  is  written  with  respect  to  open  content  and  open  systems  is  derived 
from  Richard  M.  Stallman’s  original  definition  of  what  he  called  “free  software”  as 
four  elements  (Stallman  1994): 

• Freedom  to  run  the  software 

• Freedom  to  study  the  software 

• Freedom  to  distribute  the  software 

• Freedom  to  modify  the  software 

This  is  a definition  that  has  carried  over  into  the  OER  movement.  David  Wiley’s 
original  open  content  licence,  for  example,  as  based  on  “the  premise  that  non- 
software content  — specifically  educational  content  — should  be  developed  and 
shared  in  a spirit  similar  to  that  of  free  and  open  software”  (Wiley  2003). 


208 


Definitions  based  on  Stallman's  four  freedoms,  however,  may  be  open  to 
challenge.  When  people  talk  about  open  source  software,  they  talk  about 
openness  and  freedom  from  the  perspective  of  the  person  who  already  has  the 
software,  who  already  has  it  in  his  or  her  hands  and  wants  to  do  things  with  it, 
like  read  it,  share  it  or  modify  it.  And  anything  that  restricts  what  that  person 
does  with  it  is  considered  an  infringement  on  the  freedom.  It  gives  the  user  the 
flexibility  to  do  what  he  or  she  needs  in  order  to  get  work  done  (Debian  1997). 

The  difference  between  these  two  models  comes  to  a head  with  respect  to 
commercial  use.  According  to  some,  a licence  that  prohibits  the  sale  of  software 
is  a limitation  on  its  freedom.  Debian  (2007),  for  example,  argues,  “There  is  no 
restriction  on  distributing,  or  even  selling,  the  software.  This  last  point,  which 
allows  the  software  to  be  sold  for  money,  seems  to  go  against  the  whole  idea 
of  free  software.  It  is  actually  one  of  its  strengths.  Since  the  licence  allows  free 
redistribution,  once  one  person  gets  a copy  they  can  distribute  it  themselves.  They 
can  even  try  to  sell  it.” 

But  what  of  people  who  do  not  have  the  software,  and  need  the  software?  The 
“four  freedoms”  of  Stallman  (1994)  begin  to  change  because,  from  the  perspective 
of  someone  who  does  not  have  the  software,  freedom  would  be  open  access  to  the 
software  with  no  restrictions.  Anything  that  infringes  on  that  open  access  is  a 
restriction  on  that  person’s  freedom. 

In  my  contribution  to  an  OER  debate  hosted  by  UNESCO,  1 described  an 
alternative  approach  to  open  licensing  (Downes  2011a).  I described  my  own 
content  licence,  which  was  in  turn  derived  from  the  licensing  practices  of  George 
Reese,  the  creator  of  the  Nightmare  MUD  Library.  The  licensing  arrangements  for 
MUDlibs  were  created,  not  with  coders  and  programmers  in  mind,  but  with  MUD 
players.  As  Reese  (1998)  writes: 

“Since  all  drivers  except  DGD  were  derived  from  LPMud  3.0,  they  all 
require  a copyright  at  least  as  strict  as  that  one,  which  basically  states 
that  you  can  use  the  server  as  you  like,  so  long  as  you  do  not  make  a 
profit  off  of  its  use.  Most  current  servers  have  much  more  strict  and 
explicit  copyrights.  On  top  of  that,  many  of  the  mudlibs  which  exist 
also  have  similar  copyrights.  To  require  money  of  your  players  is 
therefore  a violation  of  international  copyright  laws.  DGD  requires 
licensing  through  a third  party  company.” 

As  I noted  in  the  UNESCO  debate,  Lars  Pensjo,  who  wrote  the  original  LPMud  in 
1989  (Bartle  2003,  p.  11),  wanted  to  ensure  free  access  to  MUDs  for  the  players.  As 
the  original  MudOS  licence  stated,  “Permission  is  granted  to  extend  and  modify 
the  source  code  provided  subject  to  the  restriction  that  the  source  code  may  not  be 
used  in  any  way  whatsoever  for  monetary  gain”  (mwiley  1999).  As  the  discussion 
makes  clear,  this  is  not  a prohibition  against  the  recovery  of  reasonable  expenses. 

It  is  intended  mostly  as  a prohibition  against  one  person  using  another  person’s 
work  for  profit. 

The  importance  of  this  has  become  clearer  20  years  later  when  we  look  at  what 
has  become  of  the  online  multi-player  role-playing  environment.  The  licence 
conditions  weren’t  respected.  As  Richard  Tew  (Donky)  writes,  “That’s  the  thing 
with  releasing  mudlibs:  people  make  a few  trivial  changes  and  then  decide  that  it 
has  changed  so  much  that  it  is  effectively  something  completely  new”  (Tew  2010). 


209 


After  appropriating  the  idea  and  (often)  the  source  code,  the  commercial  sector 
came  to  dominate  the  world  of  multi-player  role-playing  games.  Today,  if  you 
want  to  play,  you  pay. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  establish  that  one  or  the  other  of  these  interpretations  is 
“correct”  in  order  to  establish  that  there  are  different  meanings  of  the  term  “open” 
depending  on  one’s  perspective.  So  the  question  is:  What  is  the  correct  perspective 
from  which  to  be  looking  at  the  issue  in  the  context  of  learning  — online  learning 
in  particular? 


The  Challenge:  Making  Things  Unfree 

As  noted  above,  it  may  be  argued  that  the  non-commercial  condition  attached 
to  an  open  licence  means  that  the  content  is  not  really  free.  But  from  another 
perspective,  it  can  be  argued  that  if  someone  is  charging  money  for  access,  then 
the  content  is  not  free:  not  free  in  the  sense  that  it  does  not  have  to  be  paid  for,  and 
not  free  in  the  sense  of  being  able  to  use  it  as  one  wishes. 

A common  response  from  the  defenders  of  commercial  use  has  been  that  the 
content  is  always  available  for  free  somewhere.  For  example,  D’Arcy  Norman 
can  be  found  arguing  that  commercial  use  “does  nothing  to  push  content  into 
commercial  exclusivity,  and  I would  argue  gives  a relief  valve  against  it  — the 
original  content  is  always  available  for  use,  re-use,  etc. ...  without  having  to  give  a 
penny  to  the  opportunistic  monetizer(s)”  (Norman  2010).  So,  it  does  not  matter 
if,  say,  Penguin  sells  a copy  of  Beowulf  because  Beowulf  is  in  the  public  domain  and 
readers  can  always  get  it  for  free  somewhere  else. 

Against  this  response  it  may  be  observed  that  when  there  is  commercial  use 
of  free  resources,  there  is  significant  motivation  to  prohibit  or  prevent  the  free 
use  of  these  resources.  So  even  if  theoretically  it  is  the  case  that  there  could 
be  free  copies  of  Beowulf,  the  commercial  publishers  of  Beowulf  may  devise 
mechanisms  to  prevent  or  discourage  access  to  the  free  version.  As  a result, 
an  entire  infrastructure  has  been  created,  drawing  on  community  support  to 
foster  the  creation  of  open  content,  and  then  leveraging  market  mechanisms  to 
commercialise  this  content. 

For  example,  in  my  own  study  of  models  of  sustainable  OER,  I found  that  most 
of  the  projects  that  produce  OER  are  publishing  projects  (Downes  2007).  The 
resources  are  coming  out  of  either  commercial  publishing  houses,  universities  that 
traditionally  feed  materials  into  commercial  publishing  houses,  or  foundations. 
The  different  models  for  the  sustainability  of  OER  were  all  based  around  that 
paradigm.  For  instance: 

• The  endowment  model  - This  model  is  used  by  the  Stanford  Encyclopedia 
of  Philosophy.  A sum  of  money  is  invested  and  draws  interest,  and  the 
earnings  from  interest  are  used  to  publish  the  resource  (Loy  2009). 

• The  membership  model  - Fees  for  membership  in  a consortium  are  charged, 
and  members  participate  in  the  creation  of  the  resource. 

• The  donation  model  - Both  Wikipedia  and  National  Public  Radio  in  the 
United  States  use  the  donation  model.  It  is  based  on  the  idea  that  some 
organisation  will  do  some  publishing. 


210 


But  even  if  you  have  these  free  resources  hanging  around,  commercial  publishers 
still  manage  to  get  you  to  pay  for  them.  There's  a variety  of  ways  they  do  this 
(though  when  people  pay  for  memberships,  they  usually  expect  privileges,  and 
that  typically  means  some  sort  of  privileged  access): 

• Lock-in  - If  a user  is  locked  into  a certain  technology  (say,  iTunes  or  the 
Kindle),  then  the  material  that  would  normally  be  available  for  free  is, 
within  that  environment,  only  available  at  a price. 

• High  bar  - Stringent  but  unnecessary  conditions  make  free  distribution 
unaffordable.  For  example,  a service  might  require  that  learning  object 
metadata,  which  has  about  87  fields,  must  be  filled  in  for  it  to  be  registered. 
The  commercial  publisher  can  afford  to  hire  someone  to  sit  there  and  fill 
metadata  fields,  but  free  content  providers  don’t  have  that  kind  of  resource. 

• Flooding  - Another  way  of  making  users  access  the  commercial  content 
rather  than  the  free  content  is  “flooding.”  This  can  be  observed  by  doing  a 
search  at  Google  for  information  on  popular  topics  of  learning  — language 
learning,  for  example.  The  listings  are  flooded  with  search-engine- 
optimised  commercial  resources  to  the  point  that  any  free  resources  have 
been  pushed  far  down  the  list. 

• Conversion  - Providers  give  users  a free  resource,  convert  it  to  a commercial 
resource,  and  then  get  users  to  pay  for  it  because  they  have  become 
dependent  on  the  free  resource  and  can’t  bear  to  be  without  it. 

There  can  be  disagreement  with  the  details  of  this  characterisation,  but  it  becomes 
evident  from  the  proliferation  of  such  practices  that  there  is  an  entire  economy 
around  creating  content  that  is  free,  commercial,  widely  published,  available 
by  subscription  — a whole  infrastructure  surrounding  the  idea  of  putatively 
open  educational  content.  It  is  open  educational  content  only  to  a degree,  with 
restrictions,  if  circumstances  permit,  using  certain  technologies. 

And  that  is  the  story  of  OER.  Understanding  the  numerous  other  dimensions  of 
openness  also  helps  us  understand  additional  ways  the  resources  can  be  unfree. 


Dimensions  of  Openness 

In  our  work  in  connectivist  courses,  George  Siemens  and  I have  depicted  the 
progression  of  openness  in  three  major  stages: 

1.  Openness  in  educational  resources 

2.  Open  courses 

3.  Openness  in  assessment  — an  as  yet  unrealised  openness  (Downes  2011b) 

This  is  similar  to  the  five-stage  logic  model  proposed  by  James  C.  Taylor  (Taylor 
2007)  and  later  adopted  by  the  Open  Educational  Resources  University  (OERu) 
(Dayet  al.  2011): 

• Learners  access  courses  based  on  OER 

• Open  academic  support  by  “Academic  Volunteers  International” 

• Open  assessment  by  participating  institutions 

• Participating  members  grant  credit  for  courses 

• Students  awarded  credible  degree  or  credential 


211 


In  these  two  models,  we  see  three  distinct  forms  of  openness:  of  access  to  learning 
resources,  of  instruction,  and  of  assessment  and  credentialing.  Sir  John  Daniel,  the 
former  president  of  the  UK’s  Open  University,  describing  “dimensions”  of  openness, 
refers  to  the  openness  as  related  to  openness  of  access  or  admission  to  a university 
programme,  open  resources,  and  then  openness  in  being  able  to  determine  one's 
own  educational  progression,  one’s  own  course  of  studies  (Daniel  2011b). 

Additional  literature  brings  to  bear  discussion  of  additional  forms  of  openness. 

In  order  to  understand  the  importance  of  openness  to  networks  in  education,  we 
may  identify  these  systematically. 

• Open  curriculum  - The  list  of  topics  to  be  studied,  or  competencies  to  be 
acquired,  or  methodology  by  which  learning  is  to  be  achieved,  may  be 
a more  or  less  open  resource.  Arguably,  MIT’s  OpenCourseWare  was  as 
much  an  advance  in  open  curriculum  as  it  was  open  courseware,  as  it  now 
became  evident  to  all  just  what  MIT  students  studied  in  order  to  obtain  MIT 
degrees.  The  South  African  Curriculum  Wiki,  no  longer  extant,  was  an  early 
example  of  this  (Richardson  2005). 

• Open  admission  - Open  admission,  as  documented  above,  is  a process 
whereby  a person  is  not  required  to  offer  evidence  of  previous  academic 
standing  in  order  to  qualify  for  access  to  a learning  opportunity. 

• Open  standards  - In  education,  there's  a variety  of  standards  intended  to 
facilitate  how  we  describe,  how  we  discover,  and  how  we  re-use  educational 
resources.  The  central  of  these  is  called  learning  object  metadata,  or  LOM, 
created  originally  by  the  Aviation  Industry  Computer-Based  Training 
Committee  (AICC),  then  passed  on  by  Instructional  Management  Systems 
(or  IMS),  then  standardised  under  IEEE,  and  then  really  standardised  under 
the  ISO  standards  organisations. 

But  there  are  other  standards  as  well:  Learning  Design,  Common 
Cartridge,  and  Learning  Tools  Interoperability.  The  United  States 
military,  under  the  auspices  of  Advanced  Distributed  Learning  (ADL) 
came  out  with  the  Sharable  Courseware  Object  Reference  Model 
(SCORM),  which  is  the  standard  in  commercial  online  learning. 

In  some  cases  these  standards  are  typically  called  “open,”  while  in 
others  they  are  more  proprietary.  For  example,  IMS  supports  itself 
with  a membership  system.  Members  that  pay  fees  have  access  to 
the  standards  ahead  of  their  formal  release.  By  contrast,  IEEE  posted 
the  Learning  Object  Metadata  standard  openly  while  it  was  still 
being  discussed  and  decided  upon,  but  charges  a fee  for  the  finished 
product. 

• Open  source  software  - Open  source  software  has  had  a significant  impact 
on  online  learning.  Widely  known  is  Moodle,  a PHP-based  open  source 
learning  management  system  created  originally  by  Martin  Dougiamas 
with  the  support  of  thousands  of  volunteer  programmers.  Moodle  is  small, 
portable  and  useful  for  colleges  and  schools.  By  contrast,  the  open  source 
Sakai  was  built  by  a consortium  of  universities  as  part  of  MIT's  Open 
Knowledge  Initiative  and  is  a large  suite  of  enterprise  software. 


212 


Other  open  source  education  projects  include:  Elgg,  which  is  an  open 
source  social  network  software  for  learning;  Atutor;  LAMS  (Learning 
Activity  Management  System);  and  School  Tools.  And  more  types  of 
software  are  available  at  Schoolforge  or  Eduforge. 

Open  source  software  is  released  under  one  or  another  type  of  open 
source  licence.  To  overgeneralise,  one  sort  of  open  source  licence, 
such  as  the  Berkeley  Software  Distribution,  allows  open  source 
software  to  be  integrated  into  commercial  uses  while  the  other,  such 
as  the  GNU  General  Public  License,  does  not.  In  practice,  open  source 
software  licensing  is  a thicket  of  options  and  permutations. 

• Open  Educational  Resources  - More  specific  to  most  of  the  papers  in  this 
volume  are  the  open  educational  resource  projects  themselves.  Here  we 
list  just  a few  of  them.  One  of  the  earlier  ones,  and  certainly  the  most 
famous,  most  heavily  promoted,  is  MIT’s  OpenCourseWare  project  (OCW). 
Something  that’s  also  received  a lot  of  attention  recently  (because  it  was 
featured  on  the  TED  videos)  is  the  Khan  Academy,  which  is  a whole  series 
of  YouTube  videos  on  mathematics,  physics  and  similar  science  and 
technology  subjects.  MERLOT  is  a project  that  was  created  by  a consortium 
of  North  American  educational  institutions. 

These  are  just  a few  of  dozens  of  projects  that  have  been  set  up 
specifically  to  create  educational  materials  for  distribution  for  free  (or 
some  version  of  free)  to  people  around  the  world. 

The  licensing  of  these  resources,  in  order  to  make  them  available  for 
use  and  re-use,  was  based  on  the  GNU  Free  Documentation  License 
(GFDL),  which  covered  documentation  associated  with  open  source 
software.  The  GFDL  did  not  allow  for  some  types  of  restrictions,  most 
notably,  the  “non-commercial”  restriction. 

More  recently  we’ve  had  Creative  Commons.  Creative  Commons  is 
now  arguably  the  dominant  mechanism  for  licensing  OER  and,  indeed, 
for  licensing  open  content  of  any  sort.  Devised  by  lawyer  Lawrence 
Lessig,  Creative  Commons  provides  the  licensor  — the  person  who 
owns  the  material  — with  a series  of  choices  allowing  the  author 
“some  rights  reserved.”  These  include  the  non-commercial  clause,  an 
attribution  requirement,  share-alike,  and  a no-derivatives  clause. 

One  of  the  most  popular  forms  of  Creative  Commons  licence  is  the 
one  that  I use,  “Creative  Commons  by  Non-Commercial  Share-Alike,” 
which  means  that  I want  to  be  attributed,  I do  not  want  the  content 
to  be  used  commercially,  and  I want  it  to  be  shared  under  the  same 
licence  that  it  was  obtained  under.  For  more  information  on  licences, 
see  Chapter  6. 

• Open  teaching  or  tutoring  - Open  teaching  is  the  provision  of  live  access  to 
teaching  activities  or  resources.  As  access  to  a TED  video,  for  example,  might 
be  access  to  the  resource,  being  able  to  watch  a TED  talk  live  — whether 

in  person  or  online  — is  access  to  open  teaching  (though,  of  course,  TED 
learning  opportunities  are  manifestly  not  open).  Open  tutoring  extends  this 
idea  to  include  openness  of  interactivity  with  the  instructor  or  tutor. 


213 


MOOC  Design  Principles 

It  is  evident  from  the  discussion  thus  far  that  although  much  of  the  attention 
focused  around  open  learning  has  been  on  the  publication  of  OER,  there  are 
different  perspectives  and  a range  of  types  of  openness  to  consider. 

The  original  concept  of  the  MOOC  (Massive  Open  Online  Course)  was  designed 
with  these  wider  considerations  in  mind.  It  therefore  focused  not  on  the  narrow 
question  of  licensing  and  distributing  course  materials,  but  on  the  wider  question 
of  promoting  and  preserving  openness  across  all  dimensions. 

In  order  to  best  accomplish  this,  the  MOOC  is  designed  as  a network  rather  than 
as  a linear  progression  of  subject  materials  or  curriculum.  In  this  way,  all  aspects 
of  the  course  are  distributed  across  all  participants  rather  than  centralised  into  a 
single  location. 

A network  is  composed  of  a set  of  entities  (also  sometimes  called  “nodes”  or 
“vertices”).  Entities  form  connections  (also  called  “edges”)  with  each  other.  The 
Internet,  for  example,  is  a network,  and  network  course  design  parallels  that  of 
the  Internet  (Spinelli  and  Figueiredo  2010).  The  vertice  and  edge  terminology  is 
from  graph  theory,  from  which  the  course  design  is  also  derived  (Diestel  2010,  p. 
2).  Networks  of  connected  entities  can  arguably  perform  cognitive  functions  and, 
correspondingly,  “connectionist”  computer  systems  are  intended  to  emulate  the 
functioning  of  a “neural  network”  such  as  the  human  brain  (Stufflebeam  2011). 

These  principles  have  been  described  in  previous  work  (Downes  2005)  and  may  be 
summarised  as  follows: 

• decentralisation  - connections  are  organised  into  the  form  of  a mesh,  rather 
than  the  hub  and  spokes  more  characteristic  of  a hierarchy 

• distribution  - the  representation  of  concepts  or  ideas  is  not  contained  within 
a single  node,  but  is  distributed  across  a number  of  nodes 

• disintermediation  - direct  communication  from  node  to  node  is  possible  and 
encouraged 

• disaggregation  - nodes  should  be  defined  as  the  smallest  reasonable 
component,  rather  than  being  bundled  or  packaged 

• dis-integration  - nodes  in  a network  are  not  “components”  of  one  another, 
and  are  not  depicted  as  being  organised  as  components  of  a “system” 

• democratisation  - nodes  are  autonomous,  and  a diversity  of  node  type  and 
state  is  expected  and  encouraged,  membership  and  communications  in  the 
network  are  open,  and  meaning  is  generated  interactively 

• dynamism  - the  network  is  a fluid,  changing  entity  with  demonstrated 
plasticity,  the  ability  to  create  new  nodes  and  connections 

• desegregation  - though  the  network  may  exhibit  clustering,  there  is 
nonetheless  a continuity  across  the  network,  as  opposed  to  a strictly 
modular  design 

Employing  these  principles,  an  organisation  was  developed  that  created  several 
types  of  entities:  persons  (i.e.,  people  registered  for  the  course);  authors  (i.e.,  creators 
of  learning  resources);  posts  (entities  created  by  course  authors);  links  (entities 
created  by  persons  and  authors);  files  (audio,  video  or  slide  multimedia);  and  events. 


214 


The  course  proceeds  by  means  of  seeding  the  network  gradually  through  time 
with  posts,  encouraging  people  to  connect  with  these  resources  and  with  each 
other  through  the  creation  of  posts  and  links,  connecting  participants  in  real 
time  via  hosted  events,  such  as  online  lectures  by  guest  speakers,  and  creating  and 
capturing  multimedia  files. 

That  the  MOOC,  as  described,  constitutes  a network  becomes  evident  through 
analysis  of  the  structure  of  the  MOOC.  Illustrated  in  Figure  15.1,  for  example,  is 
the  structure  of  the  initial  seeding  provided  by  course  facilitators. 

Figure  15.1:  Network  structure  of  a MOOC:  X28’s  New  Blog,  6 September  2008 
(Melcher  2008). 


The  deployment  of  a MOOC  as  a learning  environment  has  been  documented  in 
numerous  places  elsewhere  (Kop  et  al.  2011).  What  is  important  in  this  enquiry  is 
the  role  being  played  by  OER  in  the  course  structure  to  produce  the  dimensions  of 
openness  described  above. 

Evidence  of  OER  Production  and  Use 

There  is  significant  evidence  that  one  of  the  primary  activities  of  participation  in  a 
MOOC  is  the  use,  re-use,  and  production  of  OER,  so  much  so  that  the  pedagogy  of 
the  MOOC  is  also  referred  to  as  the  “pedagogy  of  abundance”  (Kop  et  al.  2011). 

As  demonstrated  in  Kop  and  Fournier’s  2010  analysis  of  a recent  MOOC,  “Personal 
Learning  Environments,  Knowledge  and  Networks  (PLENK),”  participants 
submitted  numerous  blog  posts  and  their  discussions  around  these  posts  took  the 
form  of  a network,  as  shown  in  Figures  15.2  and  15.3. 


215 


Figure  15.2:  PLENK  participation  rates. 


PLENK  Analytics 

>00 


— trail  cm y.  H*-Uluiriruu>xt«iYl:4f  -^^-ElLfYilfixodowrtiojefcil 

Bklg|>0Sl5  — Tv»ilter  pO£4S  -♦-KVKHlltr«JiXM$S40i*S 


Figure  15.3:  Connections  between  participants  in  a discussion  (Kop  and  Fournier  2010). 


In  the  more  recent  #Changell  MOOC  (http://change.mooc.ca),  we  see  even 
greater  levels  of  creating  and  communicative  activity.  Figure  15.4  shows  the 
cumulative  number  of  feeds,  the  number  of  blog  posts,  and  the  number  of  Twitter 
posts  made  by  course  participants,  as  well  as  the  level  of  participation  by  sign-ups 
and  newsletter  subscriptions. 


216 


Figure  15.4:#Change11  participation  rates. 


4000 


■ persons 

■ subscription 

■ feeds 

■ blog  posts 

■ twitter 


Note  that  day-by-day  counting  of  blog  and  Twitter  posts  started  in  early  December 
and  by  then  had  already  numbered  in  the  thousands,  including  1,422  blog 
posts.  As  the  course  progressed  through  to  January,  the  numbers  of  each  steadily 
increased,  showing  a continued  engagement  and  production  of  course  artifacts. 

Preliminary  analysis  of  the  #Changell  suggests  that,  as  in  the  case  of  previous 
MOOCs,  a substantial  number  of  external  learning  resources  are  being  referenced 
and  linked.  Half  way  through  the  #Changell  course,  for  example,  the  participants 
in  the  286  feeds  had  linked  to  5,150  media  artifacts,  as  shown  in  the  course 
environment  printout  shown  in  Figure  15.5. 

Figure  15.5:#Change11  media  artifacts. 

List  medias 


Find: 


Sort: 


title 


pT]  List  Again 


Listing  0 to  100  of  5150  medias 


[Edit]  rDeletel  (image)  no- 300x2 18  ( hits) 

[Edit]  rDeletel  (image)  GS+in+SL  ipg  ( hits) 

[Edit]  rDeletel  (image)  Click  to  play  ( hits) 

[Edit]  rDeletel  (image)  Books+n-i-ComDuter-i-Guillermo+Esteves.iDa  ( hits) 
[Edit]  [Deletel  (image)  multiplaver+qame.ipg  ( hits) 

[Edit]  rDeletel  (image)  ISTE.ipq  ( hits) 


Participants  are  reading  each  other’s  blog  posts,  both  directly  and  through  the 
email  newsletter  distribution.  Through  the  newsletter,  we  can  count  the  number 
of  times  readers  followed  through  to  the  blog  post  itself,  and  as  of  the  half-way 
point,  we  note  more  than  30  posts  having  more  than  100  click-throughs  each  (see 
http://change.mooc.ca/popular.htm). 

There  are  two  salient  features  of  this  activity. 

• First,  none  of  it  is  assigned  reading  nor  does  any  of  it  appear  in  the  course 
syllabus.  Contents  in  the  MOOC  software  are,  as  noted  above,  separated 


217 


between  what  administrators  provide  to  seed  the  course  and  what 
participants  contribute  themselves. 

• Second,  all  of  it  is  hosted  and  obtained  from  sources  external  to  the  MOOC 
environment,  which  — because  it  is  openly  accessible  — makes  it  all  OER. 

Adding  up  these  numbers  (noting  that  they  do  not  include  comments  on  blog 
posts  or  material  referenced  in  those  comments,  or  materials  read  or  referenced 
in  venues  outside  the  course  environment),  and  not  including  Twitter  posts,  gives 
us  6,472  OER  implicated  in  the  course  thus  far.  Granted,  a significant  number 
of  these  (and  especially  of  the  media  resources)  will  be  trivial.  The  picture  is 
nonetheless  one  of  significant  dynamic  creation  and  exchange  of  OER. 

The  PLENK  course  and  #Changell  course  are  not  anomalies.  Other  MOOC 
courses  also  result  in  the  creation  and  exchange  of  artifacts  in  this  way.  It  will  be 
the  subject  of  further  research  to  identify  factors  impacting  the  nature  and  rate  of 
artifact  creation  and  exchange.  But  it  is  clear  it  can  be  significant. 

Jim  Groom’s  “Distributed  Storytelling  106”  course  uses  the  tag  #dsl06,  and  a 
Google  search  on  #dsl06  (as  of  this  writing)  yields  more  than  200,000  results.  The 
“assignments”  page,  where  students’  work  is  aggregated  from  external  sites  where 
it  has  been  posted,  contains  almost  7,000  items  (699  pages  of  ten  items  each  as  of 
this  writing;  http://dsl06.us/page/699/). 

It  is  clear  from  these  examples  that  when  a course  is  designed  according  to 
network  principles,  and  hence  as  a MOOC,  the  role  of  OER  changes  dramatically. 
Far  from  being  published  materials  created  by  academics  and  authors  and  merely 
consumed  by  course  participants,  they  begin  to  become  the  way  in  which  these 
course  participants  communicate  with  each  other  and,  as  a consequence,  their  use 
and  exchange  numbers  are  not  in  the  single  digits  but  rather  in  the  hundreds  or 
thousands. 


The  (Open)  Language  of  Learning 

And  this  very  point,  this  very  distinction,  is  the  distinction  between  what  we 
might  say  are  old  and  new  depictions  of  OER,  or  educational  resources  generally. 

The  picture  presented  above  of  OER  as  things  that  are  published,  things  that 
are  presented  by  publishers  in  a very  formal  manner,  probably  charged-for  and 
commercial  — is  the  old  static  coherent  linear  picture  of  the  world.  It’s  not 
the  model  that  we  want  to  use  for  OER  because  it’s  not  applicable  in  a network 
learning  environment. 

That  brings  us  back  to  what  we  want  to  think  about  in  OER.  OER  are  a network 
of  words  that  we  use  in  whatever  vocabulary  we  are  using  to  conduct  whatever 
activity  it  is  that  we’re  doing  or  that  we’re  undertaking.  They  are  the  signals  that 
we  send  to  each  other  in  our  network. 

If  that  is  so,  then  what  openness  means  in  the  context  of  OER  is  whatever  is  meant 
by  openness  in  a network,  where  we  think  of  openness  in  a network  as  the  sending 
of  these  signals  back  and  forth  and  so  the  sending  of  these  resources  back  and  forth. 

We  need  to  think  about  OER  not  as  content  but  as  language.  We  need  to  stop 
treating  OER  or  online  resources  generally  as  though  they  were  content  like  books, 
magazines,  articles,  etc.,  because  the  people  who  actually  use  them  — the  students 


218 


and  very  often  the  creators  — have  moved  far  beyond  that.  Each  one  of  these 
things  is  a word,  if  you  will,  in  this  very  large  post-linguistic  vocabulary.  They  are 
now  language.  They  are  not  composed  of  language,  they  are  language. 

And  that’s  why  they  need  to  be  open. 

Suppose  that  everyday  words  that  people  wanted  to  use  (like  “cat”)  were  owned 
by,  say,  Coca-Cola.  True,  we  have  allowed  a certain  limited  ownership  of  words  in 
our  society,  but  by  and  large  we  can't  own  words.  We  can’t  own  the  use  of  words 
to  create  expression.  Now  imagine  if  we  had  to  pay  royalties  to  use  certain  letters. 
So  you  could  only  use  the  letter  “o”  if  you  paid  money  to  Ford.  You  could  only  use 
the  letter  “i”  if  you  paid  money  to  Apple.  The  effectiveness  of  language  would  be 
significantly  impaired. 

The  thesis  here  is  that  the  effectiveness  of  language  would  be  impaired  in  exactly 
the  same  way  the  effectiveness  of  communication  would  be  impaired,  in  exactly 
the  same  way  the  effectiveness  of  a network  is  impaired  if  you  break  down  or  block 
the  links  between  entities. 

The  use  of  open  resources  in  a MOOC  is  clearly  that  of  a language,  where  the  resources 
are  the  “words”  sent  back  and  forth  between  participants  in  a dense  network  of 
communication.  It  becomes  clear  that  measures  that  would  impair  the  flow  of  these 
“words”  would  damage  this  communication  and  render  the  MOOC  itself  mute. 

We  can  indeed  map  the  openness  of  a MOOC  — which  is  open  by  design  — to  the 
various  dimensions  of  openness  mapped  above. 

In  a MOOC,  the  curriculum  is  the  construction  of  the  MOOC  itself:  the  lists  of 
links  to  individual  feeds,  posts,  links  and  other  resources  shared  in  the  course. 
Opening  these  lists  makes  the  structure  of  the  MOOC  transparent,  and  also  allows 
people  to  participate  in  the  MOOC  without  ever  actually  registering  in  it  (this  is  a 
dimension  of  MOOC  participation  that  has  yet  to  be  explored)  and  creates  what 
amounts  to  open  admission. 

The  MOOC  is  built  using  open  standards  to  facilitate  communication  and 
content  sharing.  Because  there  is  a great  diversity  of  platforms  and  languages  in  a 
MOOC,  common  aggregation  formats  are  used.  The  deployment  of  open  source 
software  (gRSShopper  for  PLENK  and  #Changell;  WordPress  for  DS106)  allows 
new  standards  or  extensions  to  be  implemented  as  needed.  Participants  can  create 
their  own  MOOC  applications  or  interfaces  as  well. 

The  most  obvious  dimension  of  openness  in  a MOOC  is  the  sharing  of  OER,  but  it 
is  important  to  recognise  that  the  facilitators,  by  participating  in  this  network  of 
interactions,  open  their  instruction  as  well.  They  do  this  by  interacting  bilaterally 
or  with  a group  of  participants  in  the  MOOC,  and  by  creating  recordings  or 
broadcasts  of  these  interactions  to  share  with  other  participants. 

Finally,  by  virtue  of  its  structure  and  its  sharing  of  resources  in  a network 
environment,  a MOOC  is  resistant  to  the  sort  of  enclosure  that  afflicts  traditional 
OER  publishing. 

Because  there  is  no  single  environment,  and  because  the  MOOC  consists 
essentially  of  a network  of  connections  between  autonomous  entities,  there  is  no 
mechanism  for  creating  lock-in.  Any  technology  employed  by  a person  engaged  in 
a MOOC  could  be  easily  exchanged  for  another  technology  supporting  the  same 
standards:  any  content  provided  by  a participant  could  be  exchanged  for  another. 


219 


The  network  structure  of  a MOOC  also  resists  the  privileging  of  certain  content 
with  high-bar  qualifications  needed  to  enter  the  network.  Any  participant  in  the 
network  may  contribute  content  and,  as  communications  may  be  direct  from 
person  to  person,  there  is  no  intermediating  structure  to  impose  a high  bar. 

Similarly,  the  flooding  of  search  results  and  other  centralised  points  of  access 
is  no  longer  an  effective  strategy  for  commercial  media.  Communications  are 
exchanges  of  content  between  the  participants,  and  not  passive  accessing  of  media 
from  a centralised  repository  or  store.  Hence,  there  is  no  list  to  be  flooded  and  no 
mechanism  with  which  to  impose  undesired  content  into  the  perspective  or  point 
of  view  of  the  participant. 

Finally,  the  means  for  conversion  are  minimal.  A MOOC  isn’t  a single  entity  on 
which  one  can  become  dependent;  it  isn’t  located  in  a single  place;  and  doesn’t 
require  a key  piece  of  technology.  Consequently,  there  is  no  way  to  force  a person 
to  pay  for  access  to  a MOOC  or  any  component  of  a MOOC. 

Understanding  OER  as  though  they  were  words  in  a language  used  to  facilitate 
communications  between  participants  in  a network  should  revise  our 
understanding  of  what  it  means  to  be  open,  and  what  it  means  to  support 
OER.  It  is  clear,  from  this  perspective  at  least,  that  openness  is  not  a question  of 
production,  but  rather  a question  of  access. 


References 

Bartle,  R.  (2003).  Designing  Virtual  Worlds.  New  Riders. 

Daniel,  J.  (2011).  “Revolutions  in  Higher  Education:  How  Many  Dimensions  of 
Openness?”  Retrieved  from:  www.col.org/resources/speeches/ 
2011presentation/Pages/2011-03-23.aspx 

Day,  R.,  Ker,  P.  Mackintosh,  W.,  McGreal,  R.,  Stacey,  P.  and  Taylor,  J.  (eds.)  (2011). 
Open  Educational  Resource  University:  Towards  a Logic  Model  and  Plan  for 
Action.  Athabasca  University,  Open  Education  Resource  (OER)  Foundation 
and  University  of  Southern  Queensland. 

Debian  (1997).  “What  Does  Free  Mean?  Or  What  Do  You  Mean  by  Free  Software?” 
Retrieved  from:  www.debian.org/intro/free 

Diestel,  R.  (2010).  Graph  Theory.  (4th  ed.).  Springer- Verlag:  Heidelberg. 

Downes,  S.  (2005).  “Learning  Networks:  Theory  and  Practice.”  International 
Conference  on  Methods  and  Technologies  for  Learning.  Palermo,  Italy. 

Downes,  S.  (2007).  “Models  for  Sustainable  Open  Educational  Resources.” 

Interdisciplinary  Journal  of  Knowledge  and  Learning  Objects,  pp.  29-44. 

Downes,  S.  (2011a).  “Notes  on  Open  Government,  Open  Data  and  Open 

Pedagogies.”  Retrieved  from:  http://halfanhour.blogspot.com/2011/05/ 
notes-on-open-government-open-data-and.html 

Downes,  S.  (2011b).  “The  OER  Debate,  in  Full.”  Retrieved  from:  http://halfanhour. 
blogspot.com/2011/05/oer-debate-in-full.html 

Hopfield,  J.J.  and  Tank,  D.W.  (1986).  “Computing  with  Neural  Circuits:  A Model.” 
Science  233(4764):  625-633. 


220 


Kop,  R.  and  Fournier,  H.  (2010).  “New  Dimensions  to  Self-directed  Learning  in  an 
Open  Networked  Learning  Environment.”  International  Journal  of  Self- 
Directed  Learning  7(2):  1-21. 

Kop,  R.,  Fournier,  H.  and  Mak,  S.F.  (2011).  “A  Pedagogy  of  Abundance  or  a 

Pedagogy  to  Support  Human  Beings?  Participant  Support  on  Massive 
Open  Online  Courses.”  International  Review  of  Research  in  Open  and 
Distance  Learning  12(7). 

LeDoux,J.  (2002).  Synaptic  Self:  How  Our  Brains  Become  Who  We  Are.  Viking  Adult. 

Loy,  M.  (2009).  “Stanford  Encyclopedia  of  Philosophy:  Building  an  Endowment 
with  Community  Support.”  Retrieved  14  November  2011  from  JISC 
- Ithaka  Case  Studies  in  Sustainability:  http://sca.jiscinvolve.org/wp/ 
fiIes/2009/07/sca_bm  s_casestudy_sep.pdf 

Melcher,  M.  (2008).  “[CCK08]  First  Impressions.”  Retrieved  from:  http:// 

x28newblog.blog.uni-heidelberg.de/2008/09/06/cck08-first-impressions/ 

mwiley.  (1999).  “Threshold  RPG  = Copyright  Infringment?”  Retrieved  from:  rec. 
games,  mud.  Ip. 

Norman,  D.  (2010).  “Comment  on  ‘No,  Stephen...'.”  Retrieved  17  November  2011 
from:  http://opencontent.org/blog/archives/1730 

Reese,  G.  (1998).  “LPMud  FAQ.”  Retrieved  from:  http://LPMuds.net 

Richardson,  W.  (2005).  “South  African  National  Curriculum  Wiki.”  Retrieved  9 
January  2011  from:  http://weblogg-ed.com/2005/south-african-national- 
curriculum-wiki/ 

Siemens,  G.  (2004).  “Connectivism:  A Learning  Theory  for  the  Digital  Age.” 
Retrieved  from:  www.elearnspace.org/Articles/connectivism.htm 

Spinelli,  L.  and  Figueiredo,  D.R.  (2010).  “Characterization  and  Identification 
of  Roles  in  TCP  Connection  Networks.”  In  IFIP  Performance  2010: 

28th  International  Symposium  on  Computer  Performance,  Modeling, 
Measurements  and  Evaluation.  Namur,  Belgium. 

Stallman,  R.M.  (1994).  “What  Is  Free  Software?”  Retrieved  from:  www.gnu.org/ 
philosophy/free-sw.html 

Stufflebeam,  R.  (2011).  “Connectionism:  An  Introduction.”  Retrieved  from:  www. 
mind.ilstu.edu/curriculum/modOverview.php?modGUI=76 

Taylor,  J.C.  (2007).  “Open  Courseware  Futures:  Creating  a Parallel  Universe.” 
e-Journal  of  Instructional  Science  and  Technology  (e-JIST)  10(1). 

Tew,  R.  (2010).  “Sorrows  mudlib  vl.84.”  Retrieved  from:  http://lpmuds.net/forum/ 
index.php?topic=l  102 .0 

Watts,  D.J.  (2003).  Six  Degrees:  The  Science  of  a Connected  Age.  W.W.  Norton  & 
Company:  New  York. 

Wiley,  D.  (2003).  “A  Modest  History  of  OpenCourseWare.”  Retrieved  from: 

autounfocus:  www.reusability.org/blogs/david/archives/000044.html 


221 


CHAPTER 


dn 


Towards  a Sustainable 
Inter-Institutional  Collaborative 
Framework  for  Open  Educational 
Resources  (OER) 


Dick  Ng'ambi, 

University  of  Cape  Town 

Airong  Luo, 

University  of  Michigan 


Introduction 

The  objective  of  the  African  Health  OER  Network  project  is  to  advance  health 
education  in  Africa  by  creating  and  promoting  free,  openly  licensed  teaching 
materials  created  by  African  academics  to  share  knowledge,  address  curriculum 
gaps,  and  support  health  education  communities.  The  Network  is  a collaborative 
project  between  a university  in  the  U.S.,  two  universities  in  Ghana,  two 
universities  in  South  Africa,  and  an  educational  non-government  organisation 
(pseudo-named  Edu-NGO)  based  in  South  Africa. 

A primary  focus  of  the  project  is  to  scale  up  teaching  and  learning  capacity  in 
institutions  by  creating  new  learning  materials  and  converting  existing  materials 
into  Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  (Luo  et  al.  2010a).  However,  achieving 
this  outcome  is  not  as  straightforward  as  it  sounds.  Harley  (2011,  p.  224)  reports 
that  “creating  OER  has  increased  the  workload  of  pressurized  staff  at  some  African 
institutions”  even  though  one  of  the  main  goals  of  OER  is  to  reduce  the  “extra 
workload.”  In  the  current  academic  world,  as  Bossu  and  Tynan  (2011,  p.  261) 
rightly  observe,  “academics  today  are  more  overwhelmed  and  overworked  than 
ever  before,”  and  it  will  impose  a big  challenge  on  OER  adoption  if  OER  is  seen  as 
creating  another  task. 

Another  challenge  of  OER  is  that  they  are  not  universally  relevant.  As  Ngugi 
(2011,  p.  284)  cautions,  “it  is  naive  to  assume  that  all  OER  created  outside  Africa 
[are]  equally  relevant  in  Africa.”  While  this  does  not  mean  all  OER  are  irrelevant 
outside  the  context  of  their  creation,  it  stands  to  reason  that  if  the  amount  of  effort 
required  for  repurposing  were  high,  the  attraction  to  use  OER  would  be  reduced 
and  the  inclination  to  develop  one’s  own  resources  increases. 

In  2008,  the  University  of  Ghana  and  the  Kwame  Nkrumah  University  of  Science 
and  Technology  began  to  develop  health  sciences  resources  from  scratch  because 


223 


the  resources  created  outside  Africa  were  not  suitable  for  teaching  and  learning 
in  the  Ghanaian  context  (Omollo  et  al.  2012).  Reporting  on  the  status  of  OER  in 
Africa’s  higher  education  institutions,  Ngugi  (2011)  observes  that  encouraging 
collaboration  in  creating  and  sharing  intellectual  capital  in  higher  education 
is  one  way  of  improving  quality  and  achieving  long-term  cost-effectiveness  in 
educational  practice.  The  exchange  of  educational  materials  and  co-creation  of 
OER  enable  educators  to  be  kept  from  reinventing  the  wheels  and  thus  save  their 
time  and  resources.  The  co-creation  process  also  allows  educators  to  integrate 
different  social  and  cultural  contexts  into  their  educational  materials. 

Despite  the  potential  benefits  of  a collaborative  approach  to  OER  production, 
sharing  and  distribution,  little  research  has  been  directed  to  it.  Furthermore, 
collaboration  is  not  a panacea  to  the  complex  OER  agenda,  which  is  not  limited 
to  intellectual  property  rights,  cost  implications  and  academic  concerns  often 
evidenced  through  resistance  to  giving  away  educational  resources  for  free 
(Bossu  and  Tynan  2011;  Harley  2011).  In  this  chapter,  through  examining  the 
development  of  the  Health  OER  Network,  we  focus  on  exploring  how  sustainable 
inter-institutional  collaboration  can  facilitate  OER  production  and  sharing. 


Conceptualisation 

There  is  an  increasing  popularity  of  OER  in  higher  education  institutions 
worldwide  due  to  resource  constraints,  faculty  workload  and  acquisition  of 
learning  materials.  Bonk  (2009)  observes  that  with  1,890  classes  online,  MIT 
(Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology)  has  almost  its  entire  curriculum 
available  for  free  to  learners  around  the  world.  Although  MIT  expects  students 
and  instructors  to  be  the  primary  users  of  its  OpenCourseWare  (OCW),  50  per 
cent  of  users  of  OCW  are  corporate  self-learners  (Bonk  2009,  p.  164).  In  health 
and  medical  care,  an  increasing  number  of  people  are  making  important  health 
decisions  based  on  information  found  on  the  Internet  (Masters  et  al.  2010). 
These  users,  also  called  e-Patients,  are  educating  themselves  using  online 
resources  much  the  same  way  they  use  “self-help”  or  “over-the-counter”  self- 
medication.  This  has  added  increased  pressure  to  ensure  the  high  quality  of 
learning  resources,  especially  those  that  are  freely  distributed.  However,  the 
challenge  is  that  OER  producers  are  informed  by  their  socio-cultural  contexts 
and  goals  that  could  be  different  from  those  of  the  users.  For  example,  medical 
educators  and  doctors  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  might  be  well  placed  to  write  OER 
on  malaria  given  that  the  vast  majority  of  malaria  cases  and  malaria-related 
deaths  occur  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  (http://tinyurl.com/3zsu4g7).  Luo  et  al. 
(2010b)  analyse  social  and  technical  needs  for  inter-institutional  collaboration 
for  OER  production,  and  report  on  the  barriers  to  inter-institutional 
collaboration  for  OER  production.  This  chapter  extends  Luo  et  al.’s  proposal 
for  a collaborative  framework  for  OER  production,  with  an  emphasis  on  the 
sustainability  of  an  OER  social  practice. 

One  of  the  challenges  of  sustainability  of  OER  production  and  use  is  that  each 
learning  material  is  like  a unique  puzzle  piece,  each  created  by  different  authors. 
Educators  and  learners  must  then  identify  an  appropriate  puzzle  piece  that  could 
meaningfully  fit  a specific  “teaching  and  learning”  goal.  The  effective  use  of  OER 
is  therefore  an  outcome  of  finding  the  best  fit  of  resources  that  matches  pedagogy 
in  a particular  setting.  It  therefore  follows  that  OER  could  be  viewed  as  a pile 


224 


of  puzzle  pieces,  with  varying  degrees  of  quality,  and  users  (both  experts  and 
novices)  “scratch"  to  find  matching  pieces  (see  Figure  16.1). 

Figure  16.1:  Open  Educational  Resources  are  like  puzzle  pieces  that  educators  and 
students  assemble  to  address  a specific  learning  goal. 


Source:  “Chicken  and  Chick”  on  pile  of  puzzle  pieces,  by  Stacey  Stent,  University  of  Cape 
Town,  is  licensed  under  a Creative  Commons  Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs  3.0 
Unported  License 

One  obstacle  for  educators  and  learners  is  that  creators  of  OER  are  not  obligated  to 
wrap  the  pieces  into  a usable  “picture.”  It  can  therefore  be  time  consuming  to  find 
useful  resources  that  can  be  used  with  less  need  for  repurposing  or  remixing.  Our 
argument  is  that  although  OER  repositories  could  be  made  of  “complete  puzzles,” 
most  users  want  only  to  use  pieces  to  complete  their  own  puzzles.  The  repurposing 
of  OER  suggests  flexibility  of  the  puzzle  pieces  to  allow  a user  to  reshape,  resize  and 
recolour  to  fit  a new  puzzle,  and  the  obligation  to  share  the  modified  pieces  and 
the  newly  constructed  puzzle. 

Our  thesis  is  that  a strategy  that  fosters  collaboration  in  the  production  of  OER  is 
likely  to  create  resources  that  are  useable  at  least  by  member  institutions  in  the 
collaborative  community.  It  therefore  stands  to  reason  that  an  inter-institutional 
collaboration  would  enable  the  creation  of  more  collaborative  “complete  puzzles” 
and  individual  pieces  that  would  find  use  in  different  contexts.  In  their  study  of 
teachers'  re-use,  quality  and  trust  of  OER,  Clements  and  Pawlowski  (2012)  observe 
that  curriculum  compatibility  is  a major  barrier.  We  infer  from  this  observation 
that  it  does  not  make  sense  to  increase  the  production  of  OER  when  these 
resources  are  not  used.  Clements  and  Pawlowski  add  that  teachers  were  left  to 
judge  for  themselves  the  quality  of  resources  they  wished  to  use  or  share. 

While  educators  might  be  in  a position  to  judge  the  quality  of  the  resource,  most 
students  and  e-Patients  might  not  be  in  a position  to  make  the  quality  judgement. 
The  quality  of  resources  must  be  ensured  before  a resource  is  published.  While  there 
is  no  excuse  for  publishing  poor  quality  resources,  Bossu  and  Tynan  (2011)  attribute 
the  suspicion  about  the  quality  of  OER  to  the  free  and  open  characteristics  of  the 
OER  agenda.  We  see  this  “suspicion”  as  a barrier  to  wider  uptake  and  adoption  of 
OER.  Thus,  the  objective  of  our  work  has  been  to  explore  ways  of  improving  user 
confidence  in  the  OER,  widening  the  scope  of  relevant  resources,  minimising  the 
time  and  effort  to  find  resources,  and  sustaining  the  OER  practice. 


225 


Inter-Institutional  Collaborative  Framework 


Ngugi  (2011,  p.  283)  describes  the  interplay  between  use  of  OER  by  educators/ 
students  and  changing  teaching/learning  practice  this  way: 

“As  educators  create  and  adapt  OER,  they  have  the  opportunity  to 
re-examine  the  ways  in  which  they  teach  and  rethink  the  ways  in 
which  their  students  learn  — and  need  to  learn;  and  as  students  gain 
access  to  OER,  whatever  their  format  — paper  or  electronic  — they 
are  empowered  to  study  on  their  own,  seek  out  alternative  ways  of 
learning,  and  play  a role  in  how  and  what  they  learn.” 

The  framework  envisaged  (see  Figure  16.2)  has  teaching  and  learning  goals  (T&L) 
as  a possible  start  point.  These  T&L  are  informed  by  the  curriculum  or  content 
experts,  pedagogical  intentions  and  appropriate  designs,  all  of  which  trigger  the 
need  for  awareness  of  what  is  possible.  The  “awareness  process”  would  be  achieved 
either  through  searching  OER  directories  or  seeing  what  others  have  done 
through  “show  and  tell.”  This  process  results  in  an  individual  or  a collaborative 
activity  of  searching  repositories.  Ideally,  the  show  and  tell  would  lead  to 
identifying  people  with  shared  interests/goals  with  whom  the  collaborative 
process  can  become  possible.  These  activities  lead  to  finally  successfully  finding 
the  “puzzle  piece”  that  fits  the  T&L. 

The  left-hand  side  of  Figure  16.2  focuses  on  high-level  activities  that  happen  at 
the  departmental  or  institutional  level.  The  collaborative  needs  could  include 
the  socio-cultural  context  in  which  the  institution  is  located,  the  technological 
constraints,  issues  of  intellectual  property  (IP),  and  an  audit  of  existing  learning 
materials  that  could  potentially  be  converted  as  OER.  The  collaborative  needs 
result  into  some  guidelines  for  designing  and  sharing  OER,  including  possible 
incentives.  As  we  expand  on  in  the  next  section,  the  left-hand  side  of  the 
framework  depicts  ways  of  achieving  OER  as  a social  practice,  and  the  right-hand 
side  shows  how  to  support  OER  social  behaviour. 


Figure  16.2:  Inter- institutional  collaborative  framework  for  OER  sustainability,  which  can 
be  used  to  collaborate  with  any  number  of  institutions  or  used  just  at  a single  institution. 


226 


Our  framework  leverages  “an  incremental  process  in  which  the  academics 
develop  resources  for  their  own  students  before  releasing  the  resource  as  OER” 
(Harley  2011,  p.  222)  and  shows  how  OER  experiences  can  be  shared  with  other 
institutions.  We  therefore  argue  that  the  model  has  potential  for  achieving 
unprecedented  growth  in  both  contributions  and  the  use  of  OER. 

Building  OER  Social  Practices  from  Social  Behaviours 

In  order  for  OER  production  and  adaptation  to  be  sustainable  long  term,  the 
culture  of  creating  and  using  OER  should  become  a teaching  and  learning  practice 
norm  within  a university.  One  of  the  challenges  of  institutionalising  OER  is 
transforming  OER  from  mere  individual  social  behaviour  to  OER  as  a social 
practice.  Esfeld  (2003)  contends  that  social  practices  are  regulated  by  normative 
attitudes,  while  for  a social  behaviour  there  is  less  need  for  co-ordination  of  one’s 
behaviour  with  that  of  others  because  there  are  no  sanctions.  Sanctions  (i.e., 
reinforcements  or  discouragements)  are  necessary  for  transition  to  happen  from 
social  behaviour  to  social  practices.  Currently,  OER  is  mostly  used  as  a social 
behaviour  and  is  yet  to  become  an  institutionalised  social  practice.  There  are 
fragments  of  OER  social  behaviours  (usually  from  OER  enthusiasts  or  champions) 
at  most  institutions. 

The  challenge  is  that  if  these  enthusiasts  leave  the  organisations,  unless  the 
OER  emerges  as  a social  practice,  there  is  a danger  that  OER  might  experience  a 
slow  and  gradual  death.  One  of  the  aims  of  the  inter-institutional  collaborative 
framework  is  to  leverage  OER  social  behaviours  to  build  an  OER  social  practice. 
The  concept  of  “social  practice”  views  actions  in  terms  of  a dual  perspective:  on 
the  one  hand,  actions  are  concrete,  individual  and  context  bound;  on  the  other 
hand,  they  are  institutionalised  and  socially  anchored  and,  because  of  this,  tend 
towards  patterns  of  regularity  (Jorgensen  and  Phillips  2002).  Although  OER  are 
products  of  concrete  actions  by  individuals  who  are  driven  by  a need  to  freely 
share  educational  resources,  until  these  behaviours  become  practices  and  begin 
to  assume  patterns  of  regularity,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  OER  agenda  could  be 
sustainable. 

The  other  challenge  is  that  social  behaviours  of  OER  contributors  are  sandwiched 
between  non-existent  institutional  policies  and  their  semi-conscious  assumptions 
or  unspoken  motivations  (Thompson  2004).  In  this  chapter,  we  report  on  these 
unspoken  motivations  of  OER  enthusiasts  and  potential  contributors  (chosen  on 
the  basis  of  their  OER  social  behaviours)  from  different  organisation  roles  and 
portfolios  (including  management,  subject  experts,  technical  support  staff  and 
researchers).  The  participants  were  interviewed  with  the  aim  of  soliciting  insights 
that  would  help  improve  understanding  of  ways  of  transitioning  from  OER  social 
behaviours  to  OER  social  practice.  As  already  alluded  to,  an  environment  is  said 
to  have  an  OER  social  practice  when  it  has  a “social  cognition”  of  OER.  Van  Dijk 
(1996)  defines  social  cognition  as  beliefs,  social  representation  or  socially  shared 
knowledge  that  includes  attitudes,  values,  norms  and  ideologies.  An  example  of 
social  cognition  is  how  academic  staff  understand  the  importance  of  research 
and  need  to  publish  in  “good”  journals.  The  sanctions,  in  terms  of  rewards  or 
incentives  for  doing  this,  make  most  academicians  see  research  as  part  of  their 
jobs.  It  is  this  state  that  OER  would  have  to  reach  through  social  cognition. 


227 


Methodology 

The  African  Health  OER  Network  was  a collaborative  project  between  a university 
in  the  U.S.,  two  universities  in  Ghana,  two  universities  in  South  Africa,  and  an 
educational  NGO  (pseudo-  named  Edu-NGO)  based  in  Kenya.  Semi-structured 
interviews  were  the  study’s  primary  data  collection  method.  Selection  of 
participants  for  interviews  began  with  convenience  sampling  and  was  followed 
by  snowball  sampling  methods.  The  purpose  of  the  snowball  sampling  was  to 
identify  possible  participants  who  were  actively  involved  in  OER.  The  Principal 
Investigator  or  a project  manager  was  first  recruited  who  then  referred  the 
researchers  to  active  participants  of  the  Health  OER  Network  project.  OER 
materials  were  not  yet  in  use  when  we  conducted  the  study,  so  we  interviewed 
mainly  individuals  who  contributed  to  OER  content  production. 

The  interview  protocol  included  open-ended  questions,  which  were  built  upon 
literature  review  and  research  questions.  The  interviews  aimed  to  collect  data 
on  the  need  for  inter-institutional  collaboration  in  OER,  as  well  as  social  and 
technical  challenges  in  creating  and  sharing  OER  materials.  We  interviewed  52 
participants  from  October  to  December  2009.  Generally,  the  interviews  lasted 
from  40  minutes  to  an  hour.  Most  interviews  were  conducted  in  the  interviewees' 
offices.  When  this  was  not  possible,  we  conducted  interviews  by  telephone  or 
Skype.  All  of  the  interviews  were  audio-recorded  with  the  consent  of  participants. 

Analysis 

Table  16.1  summarises  thematic  analysis  used  to  identify  key  themes  from  the  52 
interview  transcripts. 


Table  16.1:  Institutional  interviewees 


Institution 

Subject 

Management  experts 

Technical 

support  Researchers 

Total 

% age 

Two  universities  in  Ghana 

6 

7 

8 

0 

21 

40 

Two  universities  in  South  Africa 

4 

10 

4 

3 

21 

40 

University  in  USA 

1 

5 

0 

0 

6 

12 

Edu-NGO 

3 

0 

1 

0 

4 

8 

Total 

14 

22 

13 

3 

52 

100 

% age 

27 

42 

25 

6 

100 

The  participants  were  distributed  as  follows:  40  per  cent  in  the  two  universities 
in  Ghana;  40  per  cent  in  the  two  universities  in  South  Africa;  12  per  cent  in  the 
university  in  the  U.S.;  and  8 per  cent  in  the  educational  NGO  in  Kenya.  Twenty- 
seven  per  cent  of  the  participants  were  management,  42  per  cent  were  subject 
experts,  25  per  cent  were  technical  support  staff,  and  6 per  cent  were  researchers. 
Based  on  this  distribution,  it  can  be  summarised  that  the  majority  of  interviewees 
were  subject  experts  from  the  universities  based  in  Africa.  Most  contributors  to 
OER  are  subject  experts  and  the  need  for  OER  is  amplified  in  resource-constrained 
environments. 

Having  established  the  source  of  the  bulk  of  the  data  (i.e.,  subject  experts),  the 
data  was  then  aggregated  and  therefore  not  reported  in  terms  of  their  roles.  The 
need  for  a framework  was  partly  inspired  by  this  call  from  one  of  the  participants: 


228 


“[P]eople  really  want  to  know  good  examples  from  other 
institutions....  [T]hey  want  to  know  how  people  achieve  that...  know 
what  people  are  doing  in  their  own  institution...  to  know  what's 
happening  at  other  institutions  and  learn  from  others’  experiences.” 

Our  thesis  is  that  a sustainable  framework  for  OER  is  one  that  is  responsive  to  the 
OER  needs  as  expressed  by  a community  of  potential  contributors  and  users  of 
OER.  In  the  next  sections,  we  present  the  thematic  analysis  of  the  interviews. 

OER  Teaching  and  Learning  Challenges 

A point  of  departure  in  finding  and/or  repurposing  OER  is  a teaching  and  learning 
need.  It  is  this  T&L  need  that  also  becomes  a basis  for  collaboration.  The  comment 
below  captures  this  need: 

“[H]is  frustration  was  that  students  are  not  getting  to  see  surgical 
procedures  ...  because  there  are  too  many  of  them.  And  they  come 
into  the  operating  theatre  and  they’re  standing,  you  know,  10  feet 
away  from  the  table  and  ...  not  gowned....  [Y]ou  get  like  10  or  12  in  the 
room  so  the  room  is  very  crowded  ...  [and  you]  can’t  hear  anything. 

Even  if  he  tries  to  explain  something,  he’s  talking  through  a mask  and 
it's  hard  to  even  hear  what’s  going  on....  So  his  idea  was  ...  to  make 
surgical  videos...? 

The  challenge  of  teaching  surgical  procedures  in  a crowed  operating  theatre  was 
the  motivation  for  exploring  the  creation  and  use  of  surgical  videos  to  enhance 
student  learning.  In  another  case,  it  was  the  need  to  teach  embryology  in 
3-dimensions,  as  indicated  below: 

“[W]hen  I started  teaching,  the  biggest  difficulty  for  the  students 
was  to  understand  things  in  the  3 -dimensional  form  because  I teach 
embryology  and  cell  biology....  [T]he  mandate  I was  given  was  to  take 
it  down  to  a molecular  level  so  you  can  find  embryology  anyway. 

There’s  loads  of  websites  where  you  can  find  embryology  but  you  pay 
for  them.  And  the  other  thing  is  ...  we  were  taking  cell  biology  down 
to  a molecular  level,  different  molecules  on  a cell,  that  I couldn’t 
find....” 

It  can  be  inferred  from  the  above  statements  that  teaching  goals  and  the  absence 
of  resources  to  support  teaching  strategies  were  the  motivation  to  explore  OER 
possibilities.  To  the  extent  that  resources  were  available  on  websites  but  access 
to  them  required  subscription  is  a good  case  for  using  OER.  Through  the  inter- 
institutional  collaboration,  the  academics  will  be  able  to  share  with  other 
academics  the  pedagogy  of  surgical  videos  and  the  3-dimensional  embryology, 
and  increase  re-use. 

OER  Champions 

One  of  the  strategies  for  building  an  institutional  environment  that  is  congruent 
with  the  principles  of  the  “OER  movement  of  mutual  exchange  and  collaborative 
development  of  educational  resources”  (Bossu  and  Tynan  2011)  is  to  create  a 
community  of  OER  champions: 


229 


“[We  are]  working  with  what  we  call  champions  of  OER  in  the 
institution  and  on  the  other  hand,  we  are  working  with  people  where 
there  seems  to  be  a sense  of  interest  and  we  are  trying  to  engage 
that  sense  and  build  — and  play  a role  in  building  up  — a network 
amongst  people  who  are  interested.  We  don’t  have  the  capacity  to  do 
things  for  people,  but  we  want  to  enable  people  to  do  it  themselves 
and  serve  as  a kind  of  a network  in  the  institution  so  that  people 
know  who  else  is  doing  it.... 

The  OER  champions  are  usually  academics  or  senior  management  who  are 
passionate  about  the  OER  phenomenon  of  sharing  educational  resources  and 
are  willing  to  acquire  skills  that  empower  them  to  accomplish  these  goals.  It  is 
these  groupings  of  institutional  champions  that  form  the  back-bone  of  an  inter- 
institutional  collaborative  initiative.  Inter-institutional  collaboration  has  the 
potential  to  enable  the  champions  from  individual  institutions  to  be  connected 
with  each  other. 

One  of  the  increasing  challenges  of  an  OER  agenda,  say  Bossu  and  Tynan,  is 
keeping  the  momentum  going: 

“[So]  for  OER  sometimes  it’s  not  people’s  focus.  So  it’s  really  hard  for 
them  to  keep  the  momentum  and  they  were  asking  questions  like  ... 
how  can  we  keep  the  momentum?  Who  is  monitoring  the  process  and 
who  could  play  the  role  to  push  each  institution  to  move  forward?  ... 

[T]hey  were  asking  questions  like  that....” 

It  can  be  inferred  from  the  above  statement  that  OER  initiatives  require  impetus, 
advocacy  and  drive.  It  would  be  naive  to  expect  that  self-motivation  alone  (i.e., 
social  behaviour)  is  sufficient  to  sustain  the  practice  (i.e.,  sharing  educational 
resources  freely).  The  African  Health  OER  Network  sponsored  workshops  and 
identified  task  groups  for  keeping  the  momentum  going.  These  workshops  and 
task  groups  ensure  there  are  champions  from  different  institutions  to  share 
their  experiences  among  themselves  and  with  a larger  group  of  educators.  OER 
momentum  is  therefore  sustained  at  institutions: 

“[As]  she  champions  OER  and  that  develops  in  the  faculty ...  it’s 
definitely  having  a spill-off  to  the  blended  learning,  you  know, 
because  she  is  talking  about  it  and  she  is  having  workshops....” 

The  OER  champion  could  also  be  someone  with  power,  someone  who  can  be 
instrumental  in  mobilising  resources,  as  suggested  below: 

“[We]  were  totally  underrepresented.  And  if  OER  is  going  to  happen 
further  in  our  department  — then  I mean,  yes,  we  have  lots  of  needs.  If 
people  know  about  it,  surely  there  is  money  available  to  address  those 
needs.  But  you  can’t  do  it  without  the  permission  of  the  dean.  And  if 
the  dean  is  not  involved,  how  are  you  going  to  do  it?” 

The  use  of  an  inter-institutional  collaboration  would  also  make  possible  the 
writing  of  joint  funding  proposals  to  address  some  of  the  mutual  T&L  challenges. 
Collaborative  funding  proposals  assume  that  there  is  a shared  need,  and  this 
could  serve  as  a motivation  for  collaboration: 

“So  in  every  respect  our  needs  are  different  and  if  we  are  going  to 
address  educational  needs,  then  this  is  an  opportunity  for  Africa  to 


230 


actually  grab  onto  OER.  We  find  everywhere  that  we  struggle  — and 
we  struggle  in  every  aspect  of  teaching.  We  don’t  have  funds  for  this, 
we  don't  have  funds  for  that,  we  don’t  have  funds  for  digital  imaging, 
we  don't  have  a teaching  set  in  pathology.  Nothing.  Because  there  is 
no  funds,  nobody  does  it....” 

It  is  such  contexts  of  daring  to  desire  to  improve  T&L  that  OER  renders  itself 
potentially  useful.  Under  these  constrains,  the  champions  need  to  be  supported 
to  ensure  that  they  stay  focused  on  pedagogy  and  the  complexity  of  using  OER. 
The  inter-institutional  collaboration  would  create  an  environment  for  mutual 
exchange,  and  enhance  collaborative  development  of  resources. 

OER  Sharing  Culture 

The  sharing  of  educational  resources  is  a culture  and  it  needs  to  be  nurtured. 
Developing  a sharing  attitude  is  therefore  useful.  The  sharing  culture  is  an 
invaluable  experience  to  build  on  when  adopting  OER.  The  culture  of  sharing  is 
not  new,  but  it’s  how  to  harness  this  existing  culture  that  remains  a challenge: 

“[P]eople  are  sharing  informally  quite  a lot,  but  they  don’t  necessarily 
share  in  a way  that  anybody  else  would  know  and  so  there’s  quite  a 
lot  of  sharing  happening  between  individual  lecturers.  But  it’s  very 
difficult  to  actually  find  out  what  that  is.” 

In  addition  to  culture,  some  institutions  already  have  learning  resources  that 
could  be  digitised  and  shared  as  OER: 

“Like  when  N comes  or  when  K comes  and  if  my  staff  could  go  and 
look  at  what  UM  is  doing  or  what  GH  is  doing....  [We  ask  ourselves:] 

What  do  we  have  that  we  can  archive?  You  know,  what  do  we  have 
in  our  archives  that  we  can  digitalize?  ...  Digitalizing  all  of  these 
fantastic  resources  we  already  have....” 

This  underscores  the  need  to  start  by  documenting  the  source  of  existing 
resources  that  can  potentially  be  converted  into  OER.  This  documentation  could 
be  a useful  resource  in  its  own  right,  and  through  inter-institutional  collaboration, 
the  digitalised  materials  and  technologies  and  the  skills  needed  for  digitalisation 
could  be  shared  among  collaborating  institutions  on  a need-to-use  basis. 

Another  aspect  of  harnessing  an  OER  culture  of  sharing  is  understanding  the 
type  of  academics  most  likely  to  freely  share  educational  resources.  The  quote 
below  shows  that  academics  close  to  retirement  are  more  likely  to  give  away  their 
teaching  resources  as  OER: 

“[TJhere  is  something  particular  about  catching  academics  as  they 
near  retirement,  as  amongst  those  academics,  there  is  a sense  of 
preserving  legacy.  And  to  be  frank,  it's  also  a sense  of  frustration  with 
how  their  teaching  and  learning  materials  and  their  teaching  and 
learning  activity  has  always  come  second  to  the  research  endeavor. 

So  when  we  have  shown  an  interest  — ‘we’d  love  to  see  that  as  an 
OER’  — it’s  been  met  with  a spark  on  their  side  of  an  appreciation  that 
somebody  else  sees  the  value  in  something  else  that  they  have  put  so 
much  energy  and  resources  into  over  years  and  years,  but  which  the 
institution  hasn’t  necessarily  recognized....” 


231 


This  is  fundamentally  important,  as  it  provides  a way  of  understanding  where 
the  key  resources  within  institutions  could  he.  By  contrast,  young  and  upcoming 
academics  seemed  not  to  be  OER  advocates: 

“[PJerhaps  younger  academics  aren’t  necessarily  attuned  to  this,  and 
then  also  I think  that  young  academics ...  are  so  busy  figuring  out  this 
enormous  structure,  learning  the  ropes,  preparing  teaching  materials, 
getting  their  head  around  things....” 

To  the  extent  that  OER  include  three  types  of  resources  — learning  content, 
tools  and  implementation  of  resources  (Bossu  and  Tynan  2011)  — most  young 
academics  find  the  use  of  tools  and  incorporation  of  digital  media  in  their 
teaching  a key  attraction.  We  infer  from  this  argument  that  young  academics  will 
increasingly  use  and  repurpose  OER  in  their  teaching. 

OER  Skills 

it  is  not  always  possible  to  have  all  the  skills  required  to  create  OER  at  one 
institution,  as  expressed  in  the  statement  below: 

“[W]ith  the  OER  project  I have  got,  we  are  busy  making  videos  on 
how  to  do  some  clinical  procedures.  And  so  [we  contacted]  the  digital 
media  studio  on  main  campus....  1 thought,  ‘Well,  they  know  — they 
know  how  to  make  everything,’  you  know?  And  then  they  said  to  me, 

‘Well,  [we]  have  never  had  experience  in  making  dental  videos.'” 

The  specialised  unit  at  the  institution  still  lacked  experience  in  making  dental 
videos.  These  skills  could  be  rare  and  have  potential  to  stall  an  OER  project  if  no 
work-around  plans  are  put  in  place.  The  inter-institutional  collaboration  allows 
such  specialist  skills  to  be  shared  while  creating  resources  that  could  be  used  at 
more  than  one  institution. 

Another  area  that  could  be  time  consuming  if  less  than  adequate  skills  are 
available  is  in  converting  existing  materials  into  OER.  Most  of  the  teaching 
resources  are  prepared  for  use  in  a particular  module  to  achieve  a specified 
teaching  outcome.  In  teaching  these  classes,  educators  either  design  new  teaching 
materials  or  re-use  existing  materials.  Usually  the  re-use  is  limited  to  resources 
created  for  a previous  cohort  of  students  or  different  yet  related  courses.  These 
resources  make  good  candidates  for  OER.  However,  further  work  is  required  on 
both  of  them  in  terms  of  ensuring  copyright  compliance  and  wrapping  pedagogy 
around  them.  The  statement  below  illustrates  one  of  these  aspects: 

“[A]  lot  of  the  materials  that  people  have  ...  weren’t  originally 
intended  as  OER,  they  were  intended  as  a demonstration  in  a 
classroom  or  they  were  intended  as  an  adjunct  to  what  the  lecturer 
was  saying  in  the  first  instance.  To  make  them  OER,  they  would 
actually  need  a little  bit  more  of  a wrap-around  ...  some  kind  of 
explanation  of  their  context....  [Otherwise  it  might  seem  a little 
‘disembedded’  from  its  context.” 

“A  little  bit  more”  in  the  above  statement  points  to  the  need  for  skills  that  could  be 
leveraged  through  the  inter-institutional  collaboration. 

“OER  is  very  granular  ...  1 think  about  OER  as  quite  small  actually. 

I think  more  in  terms  of  open  content  and  sort  of  not  taking 


232 


somebody's  whole  course  and  using  it  but  taking  pieces  here  and 
taking  pieces  there.  And  so  I don’t  think  there's  a great  connection 
with  the  other  person  who  created  that  piece....  [I]t’s  your 
personalizing  your  own  OER  based  on  OER...;  you’re  the  filter  and  — 
and  it  reflects  your  teaching....” 

It  can  be  inferred  from  the  above  statement  that  OER  are  like  puzzle  pieces  (or 
granules)  or  completed  puzzle  pictures  that  users  may  choose  to  use  as  a whole  or 
repurpose  through  integration  of  the  pieces  or  granules  wrapped  in  pedagogy.  It  is 
this  wrapping  that  takes  into  account  the  context,  the  socio-cultural  environment 
of  users,  technological  constraints,  and  teaching  and  learning  outcomes.  A useful 
example  of  the  impact  of  technological  constraints  on  use  of  OER  is  narrated  here: 

“I  was  part  of  an  International  Association  of  Digital  Publication 
Project  where  e-books  were  made  available  to  students.  So  our 
rector  then  brought  the  students  in  the  pilot  program  laptops  and, 
you  know,  then  — it  was  fine.  But  in  downloading  the  e-books,  the 
bandwidth  was  a huge  problem.” 

In  the  above  statement,  the  problem  was  low  bandwidth  available  to  students  to 
access  some  resources.  This  suggests  that  there  is  need  to  explore  locally  viable 
alternatives.  Inter-institutional  collaboration  would  provide  a way  of  learning 
from,  and  with,  other  institutions  in  finding  feasible  solutions. 

OER  Awareness 

The  creation  of  awareness  of  the  value  of  OER  and  demonstrating  some  of  the 
possibilities  to  peers  is  a useful  start  point: 

“We’ve  actually  got  to  speak  to  people  and  ask  them  and  — and  for 
most  of  the  time,  they  don't  know  what  OER  means.  They  don’t  know 
what  the  concept  means.  So  we  have  used  other  terms  like  ‘open 
teaching,’  ‘open  content’  to  try  and  attract  people  to  come  to  some  of 
the  seminars  to  hear  us....” 

One  of  the  barriers  to  adopting  and  using  OER  is  general  ignorance  among 
academics  about  what  it  is  all  about  and  the  lack  of  understanding  of  copyright 
issues.  Some  academics  are  surprisingly  IP  naive  and  less  informed  about  the 
affordances  of  the  Creative  Commons  licences.  The  use  of  descriptive  terms  to 
advertise  OER  seminars  was  to  ensure  that  people  attend  to  learn  more  about  it. 
Even  when  people  know  about  OER,  they  may  not  be  aware  of  OER  supporting 
structures  at  their  institutions: 

“So  then  we  know  somebody  [is]  looking  for  OER.  But  that  person 
doesn't  even  know  necessarily  that  we  exist.” 

This  problem  is  compounded  by  the  lack  of  institutional  policies  and  other 
campus-wide  OER  initiatives.  As  one  person  said,  “There  is  no  one  central 
repository  for  OER....  There  is  no  policy  on  OER.”  In  the  absence  of  these,  the 
responsibility  for  creating  awareness  lies  in  the  hands  of  academics  and  staff: 

“But  in  ...  our  faculty,  we  need  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  OER. 

No  one  has  come  here  to  do  it.  And  it’s  just  RZ  and  I that  are  basically 
doing  anything  and  so  we  really,  really  need  to  put  it  out  there  to  the 
rest  of  the  people.  Because  ...  most  of  them  feel  there’s  nothing  in  it 
for  them  and  so  they  don’t  do  it.  You  know?” 


233 


One  of  the  benefits  of  inter-institutional  collaborations  is  an  increase  in  OER 
awareness  through  widening  access  to  what  academics  from  other  institutions  are 
doing  with  OER.  This  is  key  in  maintaining  momentum  at  local  institutions. 

OER  Evaluation 

While  it  is  relatively  easy  to  measure  the  impact  of  open  access  publications  using 
the  number  of  citations,  the  educational  value  of  OER  is  difficult  to  measure.  The 
extract  below  from  management  puts  it  succinctly: 

“OER  is  a fantastic  vehicle  for  institutions  ...  that’s  really  what  we 
are  trying  to  make  as  policymakers  at  this  university....  [I]t’s  difficult 
because  it  hasn’t  been  measured  ...  there  isn’t  a precedent.  In  open 
access  publishing  there  is  evidence  of  how  making  data  available 
— particularly  in  the  health  fields  [like]  AIDS  research,  that  kind  of 
thing  — is  unlocking  research  and  data  for  the  benefit  people.” 

Many  academics  have  various  motivations  for  contributing  to  and  using  OER. 

At  the  institutional  level,  the  rationale  for  OER  is  captured  in  the  following 
statement: 

“[Our]  motivation  seems  to  be  about  making  sure  we  have  a public 
space  for  [the  university]  material  so  anybody  can  access  it  because 
that's  probably  a very  similar  motivation  to  the  University  M....  We 
have  considered  the  benefits  of  having  the  material  stored  in  a place 
where  new  academics  could  use  it....  [We]  find  new  academics  come  to 
[the  university]  and  they  have  to  start  building  up  all  of  their  material 
from  scratch....” 

It  can  be  inferred  from  the  above  statement  that  the  goals  for  OER  could  be  both 
inward  and  outward  focused.  Academics  may  create  and  distribute  OER  targeted  at 
their  own  students,  or  may  repurpose  OER  for  use  in  their  teaching.  Students  may 
use  OER  as  supplementary  resources  to  their  study  materials.  And  institutions  may 
create  a repository  of  educational  resources  to  support  new  or  young  academics. 
Each  of  these  goals  would  have  different  methods  of  evaluating  their  effectiveness. 
Some  of  the  key  OER  evaluation  questions  are  suggested  in  the  statement  below: 

“i)  How  are  we  going  to  get  through  the  workload. . .,  ii)  How  are  we  going 
to  make  sure  we  do  good  work,  and  iii)  How  are  we  going  to  ensure  that 
the  work  we’re  doing  is  having  some  kind  of  positive  impact.” 

These  questions  suggest  that  the  production  and  use  of  OER  impact  existing 
social  practices  and  need  to  be  viewed  more  broadly  than  simply  as  freely 
available  resources.  This  broader  view  of  OER  may  result  in  policy  formulation. 

The  OER  institutional  policies  would  be  a useful  resource  for  other  collaborating 
institutions. 

OER  Funding 

Most  OER  initiatives  at  institutions  of  higher  learning  receive  funding  from 
external  agencies.  While  this  is  commendable,  examples  abound  where  centres 
established  through  external  funds  cease  to  exist  when  funding  runs  out,  as  this 
statement  suggest: 


234 


“[The]  Center  for  Open  and  Supported  Learning  was  set  up  as  this 
dedicated  OER  entity, ...  was  funded  with  external  donor  funding  and 
then  as  soon  as  that  funding  ran  out,  the  center  was  closed  down. 

That’s  a good  example  of  how  OER  won’t  be  sustained....” 

Our  argument  is  that  dedicated  OER  units/entities  are  useful  and  should  play 
a leading  role  in  creating  inter-institutional  collaborative  initiatives  that  will 
guarantee  existence  beyond  an  individual  unit. 

Discussion  and  Conclusion 

The  above  analysis  shows  that  OER  as  a social  practice  did  not  yet  exit  at  the 
institutions  represented.  However,  the  social  behaviour  of  OER  was  evident 
mostly  from  the  sharing  of  resources  and  less  on  the  use  of  OER.  This  observation 
could  be  attributed  to  the  timing  of  the  interviews,  as  anecdotal  evidence  shows 
that  general  use  of  OER  is  steadily  increasing.  The  analysis  has  brought  to  the 
surface  some  of  the  challenges  for  ensuring  a transition  from  the  social  behaviour 
to  a social  practice.  The  themes  are  indicative  of  social  representation  or  socially 
shared  knowledge  in  particular  attitudes,  values,  norms  and  ideologies  of  the 
people  interviewed.  Rather  than  have  each  individual  institution  deal  with  these 
factors,  an  inter-institutional  collaboration  would  make  it  a priority  to  resolve 
these  factors. 

Figure  16.3  depicts  an  overview  of  the  sustainable  collaborative  framework  for 
OER,  in  which  some  factors  are  bigger  than  others  depending  on  the  conditions  of 
social  practice. 

Figure  16.3:  Overview  of  the  sustainable  collaborative  framework. 


OER 


awarene 


Ev 


Culture  of 
sharing 


Teaching 

and 


learning 

challenge 


235 


These  factors  do  not  exist  in  a vacuum,  but  are  part  of  a social  context  in  which 
OER  behaviour  happens.  This  framework,  shown  in  Figure  16.4,  gives  insight 
to  the  production  and  repurposing  of  OER,  and  hints  at  key  research  questions 
relating  to  OER.  One  can  take  any  factor  (a  bubble)  and  “dip”  it  into  the  cylinder 
to  choose  any  condition  or  issue  of  interest  requiring  exploration.  For  example, 
teaching  and  learning  challenges  can  be  examined  in  terms  of  content  experts  or 
pedagogical  designs,  socio-cultural  issues  or  technological  constraints.  For  each  of 
these,  one  can  ask  questions  on  how  to  enable,  enhance,  improve,  optimise  and  so 
on.  An  evaluation  factor  could  be  associated  with,  for  instance,  content,  pedagogy, 
show  and  tell  (workshops)  or  conversion  of  materials. 


Figure  16.4:  A sustainable  inter-institutional  collaborative  framework  for  OER. 


Funding 


Content 

experts 


Pedagogical 

design 


Evaluation 


OER 


awareness 


Skills  to  create 
or  repurpose 
OER 


Sociocultural 

context 

Technological 

constraints 

Clear  IP  issues 


OER 

champions 


Teaching 

and 

learning 

challenge 


Culture  of 
sharing 


Convert  existing 
materials 


Towards  an  OER  social  practice 


As  already  alluded  to  in  the  analysis,  most  authors  of  resources  are  educators 
targeting  their  own  students  and  there  seems  be  a greater  propensity  to 
developing  locally  relevant  materials  than  to  repurposing  existing  resources.  The 
assertion  that  staff  closer  to  retirement  are  likely  be  more  open  to  sharing  their 
teaching  materials  requires  further  investigation.  The  general  target  audience  of 
materials  (puzzle  pieces)  is  usually  local  and  it  would  be  time-consuming  to  create 
pieces  for  different  “pictures”  that  the  international  audience  would  find  directly 
relevant.  However,  for  OER  to  be  sustained,  there  is  need  to  create  granules  of  OER 
that  are  flexible  and  easy  to  remix  and  repurpose. 

Another  challenge  is  that  of  reward.  Most  institutional  reward  systems  are 
beginning  to  recognise  the  effort  for  creating  OER.  The  University  of  Ghana  and 
the  Kwame  Nkrumah  University  of  Science  and  Technology  have  developed 
institutional  OER  policies,  provide  guidelines  for  creating/re-using  OER,  and 
equate  creation  of  an  OER  to  a research  publication,  thereby  making  it  count 


236 


towards  tenure  and  promotion  consideration  (Ngugi  2011;  Omollo  2012).  These 
policies  are  important  for  transitioning  OER  from  being  a mere  behaviour  to  a 
social  practice. 

Although  most  users  of  OER  could  be  educators  wanting  to  improve  their  teaching 
portfolio,  the  use  of  OER  still  requires  integration  into  the  curriculum.  The 
teaching  value  of  OER  is  therefore  not  automatically  evident.  It  could  be  observed 
that  the  older  generation  of  educators,  often  closer  to  the  end  of  careers,  could 
be  more  likely  to  share  resources  than  the  new  generation,  but  the  use  of  such 
resources  with  less  customisation  would  only  be  possible  if  there  was  a match 
between  the  context/audience  and  curricula.  This  suggests  that  encouraging 
experienced  educators  who  would  have  created  several  resources  during  their 
career  to  distribute  them  as  OER,  but  these  resources  need  to  be  wrapped  in 
pedagogy.  There  is,  however,  no  guarantee  that  use  of  OER  produced  in  one 
context  would  be  used  elsewhere  without  repurposing.  The  inter-institutional 
collaboration  would  therefore  enable  young  and  inexperienced  educators  to 
contribute  modifications/remixes  to  OER.  However,  formulation  of  communities 
that  are  institutionally  based  and  use  and  contribute  changes  to  OER  would  create 
a sustainable  environment  of  OER. 

Our  metaphor  of  puzzle  pieces  suggests  that  freely  available  lecture  videos,  images 
and  slides  may  be  potentially  useful,  but  must  be  distributed  with  flexible  licences 
to  allow  easy  pedagogical  integration  and  repurposing.  Otherwise  they  risk  being 
“locked”  for  use  in  their  initial  or  very  similar  contexts.  We  are  mindful  of  the 
fact  that  the  decision  to  share  or  to  use  resources  is  driven  my  several  imperatives. 
These  needs  influence  decisions  about  the  type  of  resources  needed  and,  hence, 
which  resources  will  be  used.  We  infer  from  this  that  the  focus  ought  to  be  in 
gathering  resources  that  are  developed  for  “localised”  audiences  aligned  to 
different  curricula. 

The  creation  of  an  inter-institutional  collaborative  environment  for  OER  requires 
difficult  questions  to  be  asked.  For  example: 

• How  would  contributors  to  OER  find  the  time  to  devote  to  an  endeavour 
that  an  institution  neither  rewards  nor  recognises?  In  what  ways  does  OER 
contribute  to  “student  through-put”  at  an  institution? 

• Are  educators  who  are  approaching  retirement  more  likely  to  contribute  to 
OER  than  are  those  still  building  their  careers? 

• How  can  institutions  leverage  the  richness  of  resources  developed  by  their 
staff  for  social  responsiveness? 

• In  what  ways  would  an  institution  develop  the  capacity  to  use,  remix, 
improve  and  redistribute  OER? 

• How  would  an  institution  ensure  that  knowledge  about  Creative  Commons 
becomes  common  knowledge  among  its  staff? 

• What  incentives  would  motivate  educators  to  contribute  teaching  resources 
as  OER? 

• How  would  “openness”  become  an  institutional  norm? 

• In  what  ways  would  an  “open  culture”  influence  teaching  and  research  at 
an  institution?  How  can  we  build  an  “open  culture”? 


237 


• What  would  be  the  measure  of  success  at  an  institution  that  adopts  OER? 
How  would  success  be  defined  at  a pedagogical  level  and  at  a student 
learning  level? 

We  conclude  that  the  sustainability  of  the  OER  initiative  requires  a transition 
from  OER  being  a social  behaviour  to  OER  becoming  institutionalised  as  a 
social  practice.  We  believe  that  the  sustainable  inter-institutional  collaborative 
framework  for  OER  we  presented  in  this  chapter  has  potential  to  help  achieve  this 
goal. 


References 

Bonk,  J.C.  (2009).  The  World  Is  Open:  How  Web  Technology  Is  Revolutionizing 
Education.  Jossy-Bass:  San  Francisco. 

Bossu,  C.  and  Tynan,  B.  (2011).  “OER:  New  Media  in  the  Learning  Landscape.”  On 
the  Horizon  19(4):  259-267. 

Clements,  I.K.  and  Pawlowski,  M.J.  (2012).  “User-Oriented  Quality  for  OER: 

Understanding  Teachers’  Views  on  Re-Use,  Quality,  and  Trust.”  Journal  of 
Computer  Assisted  Learning  28:  4-14. 

Esfeld,  M.  (2003).  “What  Are  Social  Practices?”  Indaga.  Revista  Internacional  de 
Ciencias  Sociales  y Humanas  1: 19-43. 

Harley,  K.  (2011).  “Insights  from  the  Health  OER  Inter-Institutional  Project.” 
Distance  Education  32(2):  213-227. 

Jorgensen,  M.  and  Phillips,  L.  (2002).  Discourse  Analysis  as  Theory  and  Method. 
SAGE  Publications:  London. 

Luo,  A.,  Eons,  G.,  Ng’ambi,  D.,  Doyle,  G.  and  Cleveland,  A.  (2010a).  International 
Partnership  in  Developing  and  Deploying  Health  Open  Educational  Resources. 
Retrieved  22  January  2011  from:  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/ 
doi/10. 1002/meet.  2009. 1450460148/abstract 

Luo,  A.,  Ng’ambi,  D.  and  Hanss,  T.  (2010b).  “Towards  Building  a Productive, 
Scalable  and  Sustainable  Collaboration  Model  for  Open  Educational 
Resources.”  In  Proceedings  of  the  ACM  2010  International 
Conference  on  Supporting  Group  Work,  Association  for  Computing 
Machinery.  Retrieved  22  January  2011  from:  http://dx.doi. 
org/10.1145/1880071. 1880117 

Masters,  K.,  Ng'ambi,  D.  and  Todd,  G.  (2010).  “T  Found  It  on  the  Internet’  - 

Preparing  for  the  e-Patient  in  Oman.”  Sultan  Qaboos  University  Medical 
Journal  10(2):  169-179. 

Ngugi,  N.C.  (2011).  “OER  in  Africa’s  Higher  Education  Institutions.”  Distance 
Education.  August,  32(2):  277-287. 

Omollo,  L.K.,  Rahman,  A.  and  Yebuah,  A.C.  (2012).  “Producing  OER  from  Scratch: 
The  Case  of  Health  Sciences  at  the  University  of  Ghana  and  Kwame 
Nkrumah  University  of  Science  and  Technology.”  In  Perspectives  on  Open 
and  Distance  Learning:  Open  Educational  Resources  and  Change  in  Higher 
Education:  Reflections  from  Practice.  Glennie,  J.,  Harley,  K.,  Butcher,  N.  and 
van  Wyk,  T.  (eds.).  Commonweath  of  Learning,  pp.  57-73. 


238 


Phillips,  L.  and  Jorgensen,  W.M.  (2002).  Discourse  Analysis  as  Theory  and  Method. 
Sage  Publications:  London. 

Thompson,  M.  (2004).  “Discourse,  Development  and  Digital  Divide:  ICTs  and  the 
World  Bank.”  Review  of  African  Political  Economy  31(99):  103-123. 

Van  Dijk,  A.T.  (1996).  “Discourse,  Power  and  Access.”  In  Texts  and  Practices: 
Readings  in  Critical  Discourse  Analysis.  Caldas-Coulthard,  R.C.  and 
Coulthard,  M.  (eds.).  Routledge:  London,  pp.  85-104. 

Wiley,  D.  and  Hilton,  J.  (2009).  “Openness,  Dynamic  Specialization,  and  the 

Disaggregated  Future  of  Higher  Education.”  The  International  Review  of 
Research  in  Open  and  Distance  Learning  10(5).  Retrieved  18  January  2011 
from:  www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/article/viewArticle/768/1414 


239 


PERSPECTIVES  ON  OPEN  AND  DISTANCE  LEARNING 


OPEN  EDUCATIONAL  RESOURCES:  INNOVATION,  RESEARCH 
AND  PRACTICE 


“Everyone  has  the  right  to  education.” 

UNESCO  Paris  Declaration  on  OER,  2012 

“Educators  worldwide  are  developing  a vast  pool  of  educational  resources  on  the 
Internet,  open  and  free  for  all  to  use.  These  educators  are  creating  a world  where 
each  and  every  person  on  earth  can  access  and  contribute  to  the  sum  of  all  human 
knowledge.  They  are  also  planting  the  seeds  of  a new  pedagogy  where  educators 
and  learners  create,  shape  and  evolve  knowledge  together,  deepening  their  skills 
and  understanding  as  they  go.” 

Cape  Town  Declaration,  2007 

Open  Educational  Resources  (OER)  — that  is,  teaching,  learning  and  research  materials 
that  their  owners  make  free  to  others  to  use,  revise  and  share  — offer  a powerful  means 
of  expanding  the  reach  and  effectiveness  of  worldwide  education.  Those  resources  can  be 
full  courses,  course  materials,  modules,  textbooks,  streaming  videos,  software,  and  other 
materials  and  techniques  used  to  promote  and  support  universal  access  to  knowledge. 

This  book,  initiated  by  the  UNESCO/COL  Chair  in  OER,  is  one  in  a series  of  publications  by 
the  Commonwealth  of  Learning  (COL)  examining  OER.  It  describes  the  movement  in  detail, 
providing  readers  with  insight  into  OER’s  significant  benefits,  its  theory  and  practice,  and  its 
achievements  and  challenges.  The  16  chapters,  written  by  some  of  the  leading  international 
experts  on  the  subject,  are  organised  into  four  parts  by  theme: 

1 . OER  in  Academia  - describes  how  OER  are  widening  the  international  community  of 
scholars,  following  MIT’s  lead  in  sharing  its  resources  and  looking  to  the  model  set  by 
the  OpenCourseWare  Consortium 

2.  OER  in  Practice  - presents  case  studies  and  descriptions  of  OER  initiatives  underway 
on  three  continents 

3.  Diffusion  of  OER  - discusses  various  approaches  to  releasing  and  “opening”  content, 
from  building  communities  of  users  that  support  lifelong  learning  to  harnessing  new 
mobile  technologies  that  enhance  OER  access  on  the  Internet 

4.  Producing,  Sharing  and  Using  OER  - examines  the  pedagogical,  organisational, 
personal  and  technical  issues  that  producing  organisations  and  institutions  need  to 
address  in  designing,  sharing  and  using  OER 

Instructional  designers,  curriculum  developers,  educational  technologists,  teachers, 
researchers,  students,  others  involved  in  creating,  studying  or  using  OER:  all  will  find  this 
timely  resource  informative  and  inspiring. 


PRINTED  IN  CANADA 

Printed  according  to  environmentally  progressive  print  practices,  using  chlorine-free, 
recycled  fibres.  Electricity  used  in  manufacturing  the  paper  stock  has  been  offset  by 
Green-e  renewable  energy  certificates. 


sO 

FSC 


www.fsc.org 


MIX 

Paper  from 
responsible  sources 

FSC®  C0 14956 


