NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER. 


AMENDMENT,  RATIFICATION,  REINSTATEMENT,  AND 
MEMORANDUM  OF  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


THIS  AMENDMENT,  RATIFICATION,  REINSTATEMENT,  AND  MEMORANDUM  OF  OIL, 
GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  (this  "Amendment")  is  executed  as  of  the  date  set  forth  below  by  the  undersigned 
lessor(s)  ("Lessor1',  whether  one  or  more)  for  the  benefit  of  GLENCREST  RESOURCES,  LLC,  a  Texas  limited 
liability  company  (hereafter  called  "Lessee"),  whose  address  is  2016  Evans  Avenue,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76104  who 
agrees  to  be  bound  hereby  by  its  acceptance  of  this  instrument  and  the  payment  of  the  below-described 
consideration,  and  to  amend  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  by  and  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  (as  amended 
hereby  and  from  time  to  time,  the  "Lease"),  and  to  provide  a  recordable  Memorandum  of  the  Lease,  and  to  ratify 
and,  if  necessary,  reinstate  the  Lease,  All  capitalized  terms  used  herein  not  otherwise  defined  shall  have  the 
meaning  set  forth  in  the  Lease. 

For  Ten  Dollars  ($10.00)  and  other  good  and  valuable  consideration  in  hand  paid,  the  receipt  and 
sufficiency  of  which  are  acknowledged  by  Lessor,  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  as  follows. 

1.  Primary  Term.  The  Primary  Term  of  the  Lease  is  hereby  extended  to  a  period  of  five  (5)  years 
from  the  date  of  this  Amendment  set  forth  below. 

2.  Ratification  and  Reinstatement.  The  Lease,  as  amended,  is  hereby  ratified  in  all  respects  and,  to 
the  extent  the  Lease  may  have  lapsed,  terminated  or  otherwise  no  longer  be  in  full  force  and  effect  for  any  reason 
whatsoever,  the  Lease  is  hereby  reinstated  for  all  purposes  on  the  terms  hereof.  Lessor  hereby  disclaims,  releases, 
and  holds  Lessee  harmless  from  any  and  all  claims,  damages,  penalties,  judgments,  liabilities,  losses  or  expenses 
that  Lessor  has  or  may  have  with  respect  to  the  existence  or  validity  of  the  Lease  or  Lessee's  rights  thereunder 
arising  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Amendment.  Lessor  hereby  represents  and  warrants  unto  Lessee  that,  other  than  the 
Lease  and  this  Amendment,  Lessor  has  not  granted,  executed  or  entered  into  any  other  lease,  top  lease,  or  other 
instrument  or  agreement  of  any  kind  whatsoever  concerning  or  affecting  the  mineral  estate  underlying  the  Land,  and 
acknowledges  that  Lessee  is  relying  on  this  representation  in  electing  to  accept  this  Amendment. 

3.  Grant.  The  undersigned,  being  all  of  the  lessors  under  the  Lease,  for  the  considerations  herein- 
above recited,  do  hereby  GRANT,  LEASE,  LET  and  DEMISE  unto  Lessee  the  Land  described  in  the  Lease  and 
further  described  as: 

Sow  Koe  Ar^4i^  Lj^t  B         jc  I 

\Th\\x  iW.  I  V  Ml*;  Vit«j>  ,37^  hrJ  ?Mp*nhj  Vtr  mds>,  -Tarr^i  Qcurdy.  Jy 

(the  "Land"),  for  the  purposes  set  out  in  the  Lease,  all  in  accordance  with  the  terms  and  provisions  of  the  Lease  as 
the  same  is  amended  hereby  and  from  time  to  time.  The  Land  has  been  heretofore  given,  granted,  leased,  let  and 
demised  to  Lessee  for  the  purposes  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for,  and  producing 
and  storing  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  store,  transport  and  own  said  materials, 
resources  and  products,  and  to  inject  gas,  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  the  subsurface  strata  underlying  the 
Land. 

4.  Operations.  For  the  purposes  of  the  Lease,  the  term  "operations"  as  utilized  in  the  Lease  means 
activities  related  to  any  well  or  wells  situated  on  tracts  pooled  or  unitized  with  the  Land,  and  shall  include,  but  not 
be  limited  to,  access  and  site  preparation,  drilling,  re-drilling,  setting  casing,  perforating,  artificially  stimulating, 
deepening,  plugging  back,  testing,  re-testing,  completing,  re-completing,  re-entering,  working-over,  re-working, 
equipping,  re-equipping,  operating,  repairing  the  well  or  its  production  equipment,  replacing  production  equipment, 
and  any  like  or  similar  operations  performed  by  Lessee,  or  caused  to  be  performed  by  Lessee,  its  successors  and 
assigns,  in  search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  and  the  production  of  oil, 
gas>  or  other  minerals,  whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

5.  Subsurface  Easement,  Lessor  hereby  grants  exclusively  unto  Lessee  and  its  successors  and 
assigns  such  rights-of-way,  easements,  and  servitudes  in  and  through  the  subsurface  of  the  Land,  at  depths  of  not 
less  than  two  hundred  feet  (200')  beneath  the  surface,  as  Lessee  or  its  successors  and  assigns  may  from  time  to  time 
desire  for  drilling  well  boreholes  from  surface  locations  not  located  on  the  Land  and  for  casing  and  otherwise 
completing,  maintaining,  operating  and  producing  such  wells  and  using  the  same  for  producing  from  a  well  or  wells 
located  on  another  tract  or  tracts,  whether  ot  not  unitized  with  the  Land,  such  rights-of-way,  easements,  and 
servitudes  to  continue  for  the  duration  of  the  Lease  and  thereafter  as  hereinafter  provided.  If  Lessee  shall  assign  to 
any  third  party  or  parties  rights  granted  to  Lessee  under  this  paragraph,  the  rights  of  Lessee  shall  not  thereby  be 
diminished,  but  in  such  event  both  Lessee  and  its  assignee  shall  have,  hold,  and  enjoy  said  rights  each  independently 
of  the  other.  The  rights  of  Lessee  and  of  each  assignee  of  Lessee  under  this  paragraph  shall  continue  after  the 


Amendment,  Ratification,  Reinstatement,  and  Memorandum  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  Page  1 

8 10004v.  1 


expiration,  surrender,  forfeiture,  or  other  termination  of  the  Lease  for  a  period  of  twenty  (20)  years  from  the  date  of 
the  Lease  and  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  hydrocarbon  substances  are  produced  by  means  of  any  such  well 
and  so  long  thereafter  as  drilling,  re-drilling,  remedial  or  secondary  recovery  operations  are  being  conducted  with 
respect  to  any  such  well,  whichever  period  is  the  longer.  During  the  term  of  the  Lease,  Lessor  shall  not  grant  any 
rights  of  way,  easements  or  servitudes  in  and  to  the  Land  with  respect  to  the  drilling  for  or  the  production  of  oil,  gas 
and  other  hydrocarbon  substances  to  any  other  person,  firm  or  corporation  without  the  prior  written  consent  of 
Lessee. 


6.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  the  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall 
be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction, 
including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  regulation  of  the  price  or  transportation  of  oil,  gas 
and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that,  in  the  event  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  to  seek  a 
variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  from  any  laws,  rules,  regulations,  or  orders  (which  for  purposes  of  this  paragraph 
shall  include  any  ordinance)  or  other  such  authority  exercised  by  (i)  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  (or  any  other 
municipality  with  jurisdiction  over  the  Land  or  the  Lease),  including  but  not  limited  to  the  well  setback  distance  for 
gas  drilling  and  production,  or  (ii)  any  other  governmental  or  quasi-governmental  entity  or  authority  having 
jurisdiction  affecting  the  Lease  or  the  parties  hereto,  then  Lessor  shall  engage  in  such  reasonable  acts  and  execute 
and  deliver  such  instruments  and  documents  Lessee  deems  necessary  or  convenient  in  seeking  such  relief.  In  the 
event  Lessee  is  required  by  such  authority  to  acquire  Lessor's  consent  as  a  prerequisite  to  obtain  such  variance, 
waiver  or  other  relief,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee,  and  agrees  that  Lessee's  leasehold  estate  acquired  hereunder 
includes,  the  right  to  utilize  this  Lease  as  Lessor's  consent  and  ratification  of  any  subsequent  variance,  waiver  or 
other  relief  Lessee  seeks,  without  the  necessity  of  Lessee  obtaining  any  additional  or  subsequent  consent(s)  from 
Lessor.  Lessor  furthermore  agrees  not  to  execute  documents  or  instruments  or  engage  in  acts  that  would  or  may 
diminish  or  adversely  affect  the  relief  Lessee  is  seeking.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  ot  other  operations 
are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits, 
equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory 
market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause 
not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  the  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and,  at 
Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable 
for  breach  of  any  provisions  or  implied  covenants  of  the  Lease  when  drilling,  completion,  production  or  other 
operations  are  so  prevented  or  delayed. 

Option.  Lessor,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend 
the  Primary  Term  of  the  Lease  for  an  additional  five  (5)  years  from  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  which  may  be 
exercised  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor,  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  an  amount  equal  to  the  bonus 
consideration  given  for  the  Lease.  If  such  option  is  exercised,  the  Lease  shall  continue  for  the  additional  period  on 
the  same  terms  and  conditions  then  applicable  to  the  Lease. 

8.  Successors  and  Assigns.  The  terms,  provisions,  rights,  benefits  and  obligations  of  the  Lease  shall 
be  binding  upon  and  inure  to  the  benefit  of  the  heirs,  successors  and  assigns  of  all  parties  to  this  Lease. 

9.  Memorandum.  This  Amendment  may  be  recorded  by  Lessee  as  a  memorandum  of  the  Lease  in 
the  official  property  records  of  the  county  or  counties  in  which  the  Land  is  situated. 

10.  Multiple  Counterparts.  This  instrument  may  be  executed  in  multiple  counterparts,  each  of 
which  shall  be  deemed  an  original  of  but  one  and  the  same  instrument.  This  instrument  shall  be  deemed  effective  as 
to  all  who  execute  the  same,  regardless  of  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  parties  owning  an  interest  in  and  to  the  oil, 
gas  and  other  minerals  in  and  under  or  that  may  be  produced  from  any  part  of  the  Land  covered  by  the  Lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  has  been  executed  as  of  the  following  date,  to  be  effective  as 
of  the  date  of  the  Lease. 

Date:  <T~  3  H  *  * 


LESSOR: 

Signedi^j_/lLA--^p^  

Name:       "folpflflfl    Tl  f\ QC_  Q 


Signed:  4^A4fy^ 
Name:     T^OUTi  f^(tU\(\ 


ADDRESS: 


Amendment,  Ratification,  Reinstatement,  and  Memorandum  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 
810004v.l 


Page  2 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


r\  ,   Bafora      me,  the 


undersigned  authority, 


ittionty,  .  on  this  day  personally  appeared 
j^>fY£(d  CL^i  known  to  me  to  be  the  person(s)  whose 


name(s)  is/are  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she/they  executed  the  same 
for  the  purposes  and  consideration  therein  expressed. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  thi 


BONiTA  C.  BARKSDALE 

•  .  .^ry  Public 
^te  of  Texas 
Con-  Expires  11-27-08 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires:       ^  \j*2^J^  f)  f\ 


After  recording,  return  to: 

David  Drumm,  Esq. 

Carrington,  Coleman,  Sloman  &  Blumenthal,  LLP 
901  Main  Street,  Suite  5500 
Dallas,  TX  75202 


Amendment,  Ratification,  Reinstatement,  and  Memorandum  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 

81 0004v.  1 


Page  3 


CARRINGTON  COLEMAN  ET  AL 
901  MAIN  ST  #  5500 
DAVED  DRUMM,  ESQ 


Submitter:  GLENCREST  RESOURCES  INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  ForRegistnftion:       07/16/2008  08:32  AM 
Instrument  #:  D208275900 


IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIIIIIUIIIl 


D208275900 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


DALLAS 


TX  75202 


$24.00 


Printed  by:  CA 


