Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Jul  17  11:29  AM 

Fee:  $  24.00 

Project:  Fannin  Farms  <^%*^t*^_s  Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 

Lease  id:  16232 

NOTICE  OF  CONFroENTIALIWzRf0H3^e^rYOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE 
OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE 
IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR 
YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


D208278482 

3  Pages 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


THIS  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  made  this  pj?  day  of  f~&rj  ,  2008,  between  Jerry's  General  Automotive.  Inc.  as 

Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  $404  S.  Cooper  St  Arlington.  TX  76001,  and  Cheaha  Land  Services,  LLC.  whose  address  is 
P.O.  Box  122869,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76121,  called  Lessee,  does  witness  that: 

All  primed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by 
Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

LOT  1 1-A.  MATTHEW  MAISE  ADDITION,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF  ARLINGTON,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS, 
ACCORDING  TO  THE  PLAT  RECORDED  IN  VOLUME  388-208.  PAGE  47.  PLAT  RECORDS,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS 

LOT  1 1-B-2.  MATTHEW  MAISE  ADDITION,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF  ARLINGTON,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS, 
ACCORDING  TO  THE  PLAT  RECORDED  IN  CABINET  B.  SLIDE  1 82.  PLAT  RECORDS,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS 


in  ihe  county  of  Tarrant  .  State  of  Texas,  containing  1.34971  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 
reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non-hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations)-  The  term  'gas*  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus. 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the 
purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  Is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  3  yOdfS  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is 
otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid 

hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  ihe  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  weHhead  market  price 
then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  In  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for 
production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized 
by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in 
delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the 
prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  fiekt 
in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder,  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being 
sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then 
covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and 
thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided 
that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  property  pay  shut- 
in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving 
payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to 
Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall 
constitute  proper  payment  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  tor  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder.  Lessor 
shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole*)  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or 
if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraphe 
or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  In  the  event  this  tease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee 
commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  orwithin  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  Ifattheendoftheprimaryterm.or 
at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  Is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated 
to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  anyone  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90 
consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such 
additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the 
leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises 
from  uncompensateddrainagebyanyweilorwells  located  onother  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  nocovenant  to  drill  exptoratoryweisoranyaddlttonalwete 
except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  teased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any 
or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary 
or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  Interests. 
The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%.  and  for  a  gas 
well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well 
or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so. 
For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if 
no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1 00,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  of  1 00,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or 
equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  'horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or 
equivalent  testing  equipment  and  the  term  'horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir 
exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the 
effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were 
production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total 
unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit 
production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well 
spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such 
governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To 
the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are 
payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination,  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross- 
conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  if  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  In  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on 
any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full 
mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  Ihe  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone, 


and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in 
Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee 
until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the 
satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order,  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person 
entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-In  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  In  the  depository  designated  above.  If 
at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the 
depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  Interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of 
all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shal 
not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this 
lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease 
then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest 
so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be 
proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that,  in  the  event  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  to  seek  a  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  from  any  laws,  rules,  regulations,  or 
orders  {which  for  purposes  of  this  paragraph  shall  include  any  ordinance)  or  other  such  authority  exercised  by  (i)  the  City  of  Arlington,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 
well  setback  distance  for  gas  drilling  and  production,  or  (II.)  by  any  other  governmental  entity  or  authority  having  jurisdiction,  then  Lessor  shall  engage  in  reasonable 
acts  and  execute  and  deliver  such  instruments  and  documents  Lessee  deems  necessary  or  convenient  in  seeking  such  relief.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  required  by 
such  authority  to  acquire  Lessor's  consent  as  a  prerequisite  to  obtain  such  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief,  Lessor  grants  to  Lessee  and  agrees  that  Lessee's 
leasehold  estate  acquired  hereunder  includes  the  right  to  utilize  this  lease  as  Lessor's  consent  and  ratification  of  any  subsequent  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief 
Lessee  seeks,  without  the  necessity  of  Lessee  obtaining  any  additional  or  subsequent  consent's  from  Lessor.  Lessor  furthermore  agrees  not  to  execute  documents 
or  instruments  or  engage  in  acts  that  would  diminish  or  adversely  affect  the  relief  Lessee  Is  seeking. 

1 1 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor 
disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall 
be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so 
prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to 
purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease 
becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  In  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of 
the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and 
preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in 
the  offer. 

1 3.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fulty  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  Is 
litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  Lessee  shall  not  conduct  any  surface  operations  upon  any  part  of  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises.  Lessee  shall  however  have  a  sub-surface  easement 
to  horizontally  drill  under  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  conduct  seismic 
operations,  but  only  by  virtue  of  the  vibroseis-method.  Lessee  shall  employ  such  measures  as  will  reduce  the  impact  upon,  improvements,  vegetation  and  game  habitat  on 
the  lease  premises.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all  damages  related  to  seismic  operations.  Other  than  seismic  operations,  by  execution  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  does  not  otherwise 
obtain  the  right  to  conduct  exploration,  excavation  or  drilling  operations  from  or  upon  the  surface  of  any  portion  of  the  lease  premises. 

1 5.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any 
taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the 
party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and.  In  addition  to  Its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In 
the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without 
interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  In  any  number  of  counterparts,  no  one  of  which  needs  to  be  executed  by  all  Parties,  or  this  Lease  may  be  ratified  by  separate 
written  instrument  specifically  referring  hereto,  and  it  shall  be  binding  upon  all  Parties  who  executed  a  counterpart  or  ratification  instrument  with  the  same  force  and  effect 
with  each  separate  counterpart  or  ratification  instrument  deemed  to  be  one  and  same  original  Lease. 

17.  SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  ATTACHED  TO  HERETO  FOR  REVISIONS  OF  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR:  Je 


Name: 

(Individ 

Title: 


OF  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


LESSOR: 


Hies  for  ihe  above  described  Land) 


Name:  

(Individually  and  in  all  Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land) 

Title:   


STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF    i4>/K/3  /  , 

Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  "SPCrelei  t)  fhdx&i  and  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name 
is  subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  for  the  purpose  and  consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the 
capacity  therein  stated.  ^ 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  Ihtsp?      day  of  fcjtf&usy  , /^^^S^^^* 

l^jBBk       DEBORAH  J.STARTZ       I  ^^^Stitftof^ 

iTw'f!     MY  COMMISSION  EXPIRES  (r^.    ,        /-rr  / 

December  29, 2008  Jj^n^kJ^>  CQ< 

1  tt'-t  —mi   1  NotaiVs  printed  name 


My  commission  expires: 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  


Notary's  printed  iTame 


Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  ,  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is 

subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  and  for  the  purpose  and  consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the 
capacity  therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this , 


.  day  of. 


.2008. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


My  commission  expires: 


Notary's  printed  name 


Exhibit  A  to 

Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  Dated  January  ,  2008 

Between 

Jerry's  General  Automotive  Inc.  as  Lessor  and 
Cheaha  Land  Services  L.L.C.  as  Lessee 

If  any  of  the  following  provisions  are  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  contained  in  the  body  of  the  lease,  the 
provisions  of  this  Exhibit  A  will  control. 

Pooling.  Pooled  units  for  gas  and  associated  hydrocarbons  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  in  size  unless  the 
Texas  Railroad  Commission  or  other  governmental  entity  requires  a  larger  unit  size  in  order  for  Lessee  to 
obtain  the  maximum  production  allowable  for  the  unit 

Leased  Interests.  The  Lease  shall  only  cover  oil,  gas,  and  associated  hydrocarbons  produced  in  connection 
with  such  oil  and/or  gas  production.. 

Royalty  Payments. 

.  Upon  request,  Lessee  shall  make  available  for  Lessor's  review  a  copy  of  any  contract 
entered  into  for  the  sale  of  oil,  gas,  and  associated  hydrocarbons.  If  the  contract  is  with  an  affiliate  of  Lessee, 
Lessee  will  make  available  on  request  a  copy  of  any  agreements  entered  into  between  the  affiliated  entity  and 
any  other  person  for  such  sales  from  the  leased  premises.  Lessor  agrees  not  to  disclose  the  terms  of  such 
contract  to  any  party  other  than  its  counsel  and  consultants  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessee. 

Shut-in  Royalty.  Shut-in  royalty  will  be  paid  at  the  rate  of  $20  per  net  mineral  acre  per  year.  The  Lease  will 
not  be  maintained  in  force  solely  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  well  royalties  for  more  than  two  (2)  consecutive 
years.. 

No  Warranty  as  to  Title.  The  lease  is  granted  without  warranty,  express  or  implied,  in  law  or  in  equity; 
provided,  that,  Lessee  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  upon  said  leased 
premises,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  if  Lessee  does  so,  it  will  be  subrogated  to  any  such  lien  with  right  to 
enforce  same  and  apply  rentals  and  royalties  accruing  hereunder  towards  satisfying  the  same. 

Release  of  Acreage.  Subject  to  the  continuation  provisions  of  the  lease,  the  lease  will  terminate  at  the  end  of 
the  primary  term  as  to:  (a)  all  parts  of  the  leased  premises  not  within  the  pooled  unit  that  may  be 
designated  under  the  pooling  provisions  of  the  lease,  and  (b)  all  formations  that  are  100  feet  or  more  below 
the  then  lowest  producing  formation.  Such  parts  as  to  which  the  lease  terminates  under  the  foregoing  will 
revert  to  and  revest  in  Lessor  without  entry  or  other  action  by  Lessor  or  Lessee. 

Indemnification  and  Hold  Harmless.  Lessee  shall  defend,  indemnify,  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  any  and 
all  fines,  damages,  penalties,  interest,  attorney  fees,  expenses,  and  other  costs  or  claims  of  any  nature  or 
type  that  arise  out  of,  result  from,  or  that  are  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  operations  pursuant  to  the 
lease.  If  Lessee  transfers  part  or  all  of  this  lease,  it  shall  continue  to  obligated  under  the  foregoing  for  all 
periods  before  the  effective  date  of  the  transfer,  and  its  successor  shall  be  obligated  under  the  foregoing  for 
all  periods  after  the  effective  date  of  the  transfer.  The  obligations  in  this  paragraph  shall  survive  the 
termination  of  the  lease. 

Jurisdiction;  Venue.  Jurisdiction  and  venue  of  any  action  relating  to  the  lease  or  the  leased  premises  will  lie 
in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

LESSORy  LESSEE: 
Jerry's  Gpheral  Autor^olrvelnc.  Cheaha  Land  Services  L.L.C. 

By:  


Name: 
Title:  " 


6404  South  Cooper  Street  P.  O.  Box  122869 

Arlington,  Texas  76001  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76121 


