DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Department  of 

RESEARCH  PROGRAMS 

at  Walter  Reed  National  Military  Medical  Center 


VOLUME  2,  ISSUE  2 Excellence  In  Military  Medical  Research  march  201 5 


2015  Research  and  Innovation  Month 

■ 3^^  Annual  Aware  for  All 

■ 7th  Annual  National  Capital  Region  Research  Competitions 

■ 2015  Spring  Research  Summit 

- Save  the  Dates 

Research  plays  a significant  educational  role  in  the  National  Capital 
Region  Medical  Facilities.  To  celebrate  and  recognize  researchers  for 
their  hard  work,  the  Department  of  Research  Programs  will  be  hosting 
the  2015  Research  and  Innovation  Month  in  May.  Numerous  events 
will  take  place  featuring  research  projects  from  the  National  Capital 
Region. 

Please  check  your  calendars  for  the  following  events  and  dates: 

3*^**  Annual  Aware  for  All 


Table  of  Contents 

2015  Research  and  Innovation  Month 

- Save  the  Dates 

3"^^  Annual  Aware  for  All 

- Call  for  Participants 

Biomedical  Research  Laboratory 

Business  Office 

IRB  Operations  Office 

Research  Protocol  Development 

Research  Compliance  Office 

Monthly  Meeting 

New  Employees/Hail  and  Farewell 

Monthly  Research  Roundtable 

Behind  the  Scenes 

January  2015  WRNMMC  Publications. 
Appendix  1 - The  ZENITH  Trial 


06  May  2015  - Showcasing  of  research  projects  from  the  National  Capital  Region 


...1 

..2 

..3 

..4 

..5 

..6 

...6 

..7 

.7 

..8 

..9 

10 

12 


7th  Annual  National  Capital  Region  Research  Competitions 

Poster  Display  Week  - 11-15  May  2015 

Featuring  research  and  case  reports  from  the  2015  Research  Competitions  participants 


Poster  Competitions  - 13  May  2015 

Oral  presentations  from  Case  Report  and  Evidence  Based  Practice-Quality  Improvement  Research  Competition  Finalists 

Research  Symposium  I and  II  - 18-19  May  2015 

Featuring  formal  oral  presentations  from  Bailey  K.  Ashford  and  Robert  A.  Phillips  Research  Competition  Finalists 

2015  Spring  Research  Summit 

27  May  2015  - Featuring  researchers  from  different  departments  of  the  Walter  Reed  National  Military  Medical  Center 


Further  details  will  be  announced. 

Please  check  the  WRNMMC  Intranet  homepage  and  your  emails  for  updates. 

We  look  forward  to  everyone’s  participation! 

Ryan  Kim,  LT,  MC,  USN 
Department  of  Research  Programs 
2015  Research  Competitions  Coordinator 


1 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


3rd  Annual  Aware  for  All  - Call  for  Participants 


The  3'^‘^  Annual  Aware  for  All  will  be  hosted  in  the  America  Building  again  this  year  on  6 May  2015.  At  this  annual 
event,  DRP  recognizes  and  celebrates  research  study  volunteers  - without  whom  we  would  not  be  able  to  conduct 
research.  Your  participation  makes  the  advancement  of  military  medicine  possible.  In  addition,  Aware  for  All 
honors  WRNMMC  researchers  and  key  research  personnel.  Centers  of  Excellence,  research  centers,  and  the 
foundations  that  support  them. 


At  this  educational  event,  members  of  the  WRNMMC  research  community  present 
their  research,  hand  out  brochures,  flyers,  and  takeaways;  some  even  show  video 
presentations  and  demos. 

Presenters  wishing  to  host  a booth  should  RSVP  by  contacting  LT  Ryan  Kim,  2015 
Research  Competitions  Coordinator,  at  rvan.m.kim2.mil@mail.mil  or  (301)  295-8338 
no  later  than  27  March  2015. 


2 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Biomedical  Research  Laboratory  (BRL) 


Updated  BRL  Staff  Picture 

The  Biomedical  Research  Lab  would  like  to  share  its  current  face:  all  of  our  staff  as  of 
February  2015. 

Everyone’s  names  and  positions  are  listed  below  and  the  picture  follows  from  left  to  right. 
We  are  here  to  provide  research  services  for  the  WRNMMC  staff. 


CDR  Janine  R.  Danko,  MD,  MPH  FACP 
Chief,  Biomedical  Research  Lab 


PFC  Brandon  Thompson 
Laboratory  Technician 


Brian  Reinhardt,  MS,  MLS  (ASCP) 
Medical  Technologist 


Sumana  Dey,  PhD 
Research  Scientist 


Robert  Taylor,  PhD 
Research  Scientist 


Franz  A.  Frye,  Ph.D. 

Captain,  U.S.  Army,  Medical  Service  Corps 
Biochemist 

Deputy  Director,  Biomedical  Research  Laboratory 

Brandi  Benford,  MS 
Chemist 

Yaling  Zhou,  PhD 
Supervisor/Scientific  Director 

Cristina  Caplinger,  MS 
Research  Scientist 


Elena  Morris 
Medical  Technologist 

CDR  Janine  Danko,  MD,  MPH, 
FACP 

Chief  of  the  Biomedical 
Research  Laboratory 

SGT  Robert  A.  Martinez 
Noncommissioned  Officer  In 
Charge 


3 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Business  Office 


I am  excited  to  join  the  WRNMMC  family  and  am  looking  forward  to  working  with  you 
all.  The  Business  Office  within  the  Department  of  Research  Programs  is  a newly 
established  group.  We  are  here  to  help  researchers  apply  for  grants  and  establish 
collaborations  with  other  institutions  and  entities. 


We  are  working  to  establish  a streamlined  process  to  help  you.  In  this  month’s  newsletter  1 
will  discuss  how  to  initiate  an  agreement  through  the  WRNMMC  Business  Office. 


Jasleen  Shant,  PhD 
Chief,  Business  Office 

Background  of  Technology  Transfer:  Since  1980,  Congress  has  made  it  increasingly  easier  for  scientists  in 
federal  laboratories  to  cooperate  with  their  colleagues  in  non-federal  institutions,  such  as  private  industry, 
universities,  and  state  and  local  governments  by  utilizing  a Cooperative  Research  and  Development  Agreement 
(CRADA).  A CRADA  is  collaborative  agreement  between  one  or  more  federal  laboratories  and  one  or  more  non- 
federal  parties  under  which  the  laboratories  provide  personnel,  facilities,  equipment,  or  other  resources  to  conduct 
specific  research  or  development  efforts  that  are  consistent  with  the  laboratory’s  mission. 

How  to  initiate  an  agreement  request? 

The  scientist  finds  a prospective  partner  and  works  out  a draft  statement  of  work  (SOW).  Scientists  then  request  a 
CRADA  or  Material  Transfer  Agreement  (MTA)  from  the  DRP  Business  Office  via  an  Agreement  Request  Form. 
This  form  gives  us  all  the  information  we  might  need  to  establish  an  agreement.  You  can  attach  the  SOW  to  this 
form.  If  you  have  questions,  please  come  talk  to  us/provide  us  with  the  information  on  the  collaboration/material 
transfer/data  sharing  early  on.  Please  fill  out  the  Agreement  Request  Form  and  send  it  to  me  at 
iasleen.shant.civ@mail.mil. 

Agreement  Request  Form  - Where  to  find  it? 

The  Agreement  Request  Form  is  available  on  the  IRBNet  or  the  DRP  Intranet  site.  You  can  get  the  Agreement 
Request  Form  directly  from  us,  too. 

What  is  the  Agreement  Process? 

Once  the  Business  Office  has  the  information  that  is  needed  about  the  collaboration,  the  information  is  reviewed 
by  the  Agreements  Review  Committee  (ARC),  which  meets  on  a weekly  basis.  Agreements  are  negotiated  and 
receive  legal  review.  The  final  negotiated  agreement  is  then  executed  by  both  parties.  Please  keep  in  mind  that 
signature  on  WRNMMC ’s  agreements  can  take  some  time,  but  the  Business  Office  will  do  everything  it  can  to 
move  the  agreement  along  to  be  signed  as  quickly  as  possible. 


4 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


IRB  Operations  Office 


This  month’s  contribution  for  IRB  Operations  Office  is  from 

Wendy  Gilbert,  IRB  Manager. 


Informed  Consent 


Debarati  Dasgupta 

Acting  Director,  IRB  Operations  Office 


Informed  consent  reflects  the  basic  principle  of  respect  for  persons  in  a research  study  and  is 
an  ongoing  educational  process  that  provides  potential  subjects  with  explanations  to  help 
them  make  informed  decisions  about  whether  to  participate  in  a study.  Participation  includes 
the  essential  criteria  of  informed  consent  which  includes  the  subject’s  knowledge  and 
comprehension  of  the  research  requirements;  the  understanding  that  consent  is  freely  given; 
and  that  he/she  has  the  right  to  withdraw  from  the  study  at  any  time.  It  is  critical  that  these 
essential  criteria  are  clearly  communicated  to  the  person  who  is  considering  participating. 


The  informed  consent  must  be  free  of  coercion  or  fraud.  The  person  giving  consent  to 
participate  in  a research  study  must  have  sufficient  mental  capacity  and  be  provided 
necessary  information  in  order  to  give  valid  and  voluntary  consent. 


Wendy  Gilbert,  IRB  Manager 


During  the  informed  consent  process  (before  the  consent  of  the  subject  is  obtained),  the  potential  subject  (and  his/her 
support  system)  is  informed  of  the  purpose  of  the  research;  the  possible  risks  and  benefits  from  participating  in  the 
research;  procedures  to  be  followed;  identification  of  procedures  that  are  experimental;  the  length  of  time  he/she  will  be 
involved  in  the  research;  alternatives  to  research  participation;  provisions  for  privacy  of  the  subject’s  identity  and 
maintenance  of  confidentiality  of  the  subject’s  data  when  participating  in  the  research;  research-related  injury 
information  for  research  that  is  greater  than  minimal  risk  (e.g.,  the  availability  of  compensation  and  medical  treatments 
if  an  injury  occurs;  contact  information  for  additional  information  about  the  research,  the  research  subject’s  rights,  and 
research-related  injury);  reiteration  of  the  voluntary  nature  of  study  participation;  and  the  right  to  stop  study 
participation  without  penalty  or  loss  of  benefits  to  which  the  subject  is  entitled. 


The  following  are  additional  elements  that  could  be  included  in  a consent  document,  as  appropriate:  unforeseeable 
risks;  termination  of  study  participation  by  the  investigator(s);  additional  costs  that  may  be  associated  with  study 
participation;  instructions  if  a subject  decides  to  stop  study  participation;  information  on  significant  new  findings; 
approximate  number  of  subjects  proposed  to  participate  in  the  study. 


This  library  contains  the  “Consent  Form  and  HIPAA  Authorization’’  template,  as  well  as 
other  research-related  templates,  forms,  instructions,  guidebooks,  handbooks  (Chapter  5 of 
the  WRNMMC  IRB  Handbook  provides  details  on  the  consent  form  and  the  informed 
consent  process),  and  general  information. 


At  WRNMMC,  before  drafting  a research  consent  form,  please  log  onto  IRBNet 

(http://fhpr.dhhq.health.mil/dmrn.aspx)  - you  must  have  a CAC.  Go  to  “Forms  and  Templates”  then  select  the  library 
“WRNMMC  Department  of  Research  Programs  (DRP)  - Documents  for  Researchers.” 


5 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Research  Protocol  Development 


This  month’s  input  is  provided  by  Gwen  Wright,  MS,  RN,  Protocol  Development  Specialist. 

Preventable  Administrative  Delay 

One  of  the  most  common  preventable  administrative  delays  that  halt  IRB  advancement  is  the  linking  of 
investigator’s  credentials,  i.e.,  CV  and  the  appropriate  CITI  training  documents.  The  linking  of 
documents  is  required  on  a package-by-package  basis  for  continuous  quality  control.  The  Department  of 
Defense  National  Capital  Region  Medical  Directorate  (NCR-MD)  - DoD  NCR-MD  and/or  OUSD  P&R 
CITI  training  certificates  are  acceptable  affiliations  for  project  submission. 


CDR  Ruben  D.  Acosta,  MC,  USN 
Chief,  Research  Protocol  Development 
Deputy  Chief,  DRP 

To  link  Documents: 

■ Use  the  “link/unlink  training  records”  button  in  the  “Designer”  view  of  menu  selection  via  IRBNet. 

How  to  update  Training  & Credentials  materials: 

■ Log  into  IRBNet  and  click  the  “User  Profile”  link  in  the  top  right  comer  of  the  screen. 

■ Locate  the  Training  & Credentials  section  at  the  bottom  of  the  User  Profile  page,  click  “Add  New  Record”  button. 

■ Select  the  appropriate  training  and  credential  Document  Type,  enter  the  Effective  Date  of  the  document  (e.g.,  date  of  training 
certificate,  CV  effective  date)  and  any  other  applicable  information,  and  then  select  the  file  from  your  computer  by  clicking  the 
browser  button. 

o CITI  must  be  within  three  years  and  CVs  must  be  within  two  years. 

■ Once  the  correct  file  is  selected,  click  “Attach.” 

■ From  the  User  Profile  page,  click  the  “Submit”  link  (to  the  right  of  the  new  document  listing  you  have  just  created). 

■ Select  the  WRNMMC  Department  of  Research  Programs  and  click  the  Submit  button. 

Resource:  IRBNet  Directions  for  Researcher ’s  @ WRNMMC 

Research  Compliance  Office 


This  month’s  contribution  was  provided  by  Robert  Roogow,  Auditor. 

Hot  Topic  of  the  Month 

Are  you  following  your  protocol  in  regard  to  reducing  the  risk  of  a 
breach  of  confidentiality? 


Debarati  Dasgupta,  MS,  CHRC,  CIP 
Research  Compliance  Officer 


You  must  have  adequate  safeguards  to  protect  the  privacy  of  subjects  and  to  maintain  the  confidentiality  of 
data,  when  appropriate.  The  IRB  will  consider  the  nature  of  your  study,  the  probability  a breach  will 
occur,  and  the  degree  of  the  harm  that  may  result  from  an  unauthorized  disclosure  of  collected 
information.  You  must  keep  in  mind  this  privacy/confidentiality  requirement  is  in  addition  to  similar 
requirements  of  the  HIPAA  Privacy  Rule.  There  may  be  occasions  when  the  HIPAA 
privacy/confidentiality  requirements  do  not  apply  but  the  research  rules  do  apply. 


Consider  coding  records,  statistical  techniques,  and  physical  or  computerized  methods  for  maintaining 
the  security  of  stored  data.  Proper  security  measures  include  locked  file  cabinets  in  locked  offices, 
password  protected  electronic  files,  and  encryption. 


6 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


The  Protocol  Template  available  in  IRBNet  has  valuable  standard  language;  however,  you  must  make  sure  the  template  language 
matches  your  protocol  and  your  current  procedures.  If  the  template  does  not  match  your  current  procedures,  you  must  change  the 
template  language  to  match  what  you  are  going  to  do. 

Be  specific  in  the  protocol  about  what  documents  (e.g.,  Case  Report  Forms,  Data  Capture  Forms,  Source  Documents,  copies  of  medical 
records,  etc.)  are  going  to  be  collected  for  research  purposes  and  which  of  these  documents  will  contain  identifiable  information. 

You  can  always  discuss  your  options  with  the  DRP  staff. 


Monthly  Meeting 

Highlights 

■ Employee  of  the  Month  announced 

■ Mary  Kelleher’s  departure  to  NIH  announced 

■ New  DRP  employee  Lorna  Moore  introduced 

■ SSG  Hodges  discussed  leave  policies  for  Federal  Civilian  Employees;  of  note  was  “Communicating  intended  leave  with  your 
supervisor” 

■ LCDR  Acosta  discussed  CITI  affiliation  change  from  NCR-MD  to  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  (Personnel  and  Readiness) 

■ New  EIRB  system  is  on  the  way 

■ LT  Ryan  Kim  was  awarded  a Commendation  by  BG  Clark 


New  Employees/Hail  and  Farewell 


Courtney  Pitts  (courtnev.n.pitts.civ@mail.mil;  301-400-3884)  joins  us  as  an 
Institutional  Review  Board  (IRB)  Manager.  Ms.  Pitts  was  earned  her  Bachelor  of 
Science  in  Psychology  at  the  University  of  Maryland  University  College  and  is  seeking 
her  Master  of  Science  in  Healthcare  Administration.  Prior  to  joining  us,  Ms.  Pitts  served 
as  the  IRB  Coordinator  for  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  Medical  Center  in 
Washington,  D.C.  She  has  worked  closely  with  WRNMMC  as  a Regulatory  Affairs 
Specialist  in  the  Regulatory  Affairs  & Compliance  Department  at  the  Henry  M.  Jackson 
Foundation  in  Rockville,  MD. 

Ms.  Pitts  was  born  and  raised  in  Maryland  and  maintains  that  there  is  no  place  like  home. 
She  is  enthusiastic  about  her  new  position  and  is  looking  forward  to  contributing  a 
wealth  of  knowledge  to  advance  research  support. 


Marcus  Morgan  passes  the  baton. . . 

Well,  the  time  has  come  to  say  goodbye  to  everyone  who  has  made  me  smile  here  over 
the  last  two  years.  As  has  been  said  before,  it  has  been  a pleasure  to  work  here  in  the 
Department  of  Research  Programs,  but  more  than  that,  it  has  been  a privilege  to  have  met 
and  been  a part  of  this  phenomenal  team.  You  have  all,  individually,  and  as  a whole, 
been  an  inspiration  to  me.  I have  learned  something  from  each  and  every  one  of  you,  and 
I will  take  with  me  the  fondest  of  memories  of  my  time  within  DRP.  I have  prospered 
both  personally  as  well  as  professionally  thanks  to  my  experience  here.  Before  I change 
my  mind  and  decide  to  stay,  I want  to  wish  everyone  the  best  of  luck 
in  the  future  and  hope  all  of  you  continue  to  prosper. 

Patricia  Titi,  Administrative  Support  Specialist,  will  be 
taking  over  my  position.  She  joins  us  from  the  Naval  Air 
Terminal  in  Norfolk,  Virginia.  She  holds  a master’s  in 
Urban  Affairs  with  a concentration  in  Gerontology  and  a 
BA  in  Sociology.  Ms.  Titi  worked  at  the  former  Walter  Reed 
Army  Medical  Center  in  the  Department  of  Surgery.  She  enjoys 
helping  people  and  is  excited  to  join  DRP.  - Marcus  Morgan 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Lisa  Thompson,  MHA,  MBA,  joins  us  as  the  Supervisory  Medical  Education 
Specialist  who  will  be  coordinating  academic  research  education  within  DRP.  Ms. 
Thompson  is  a native  New  Yorker  who  earned  her  BS  in  Psychology  from 
Fordham  University  and  her  MS  in  Health  Care  Administration  and  MBA  from  the 
University  of  Maryland. 

Ms.  Thompson  brings  over  26  years  healthcare  administration  experience,  which 
includes  managing  Graduate  Medical  Education  programs  and  managing  research 
protocol  reviews.  Ms.  Thompson  looks  forward  to  utilizing  her  expertise  to  market 
DRP  services. 


Monthly  Research  Roundtable 


Dr.  Shant  discussed  new  forms  that  will 
be  implemented  for  use  to  develop 
collaborative  agreements.  She  also 
presented  the  new  form  (i.e..  Agreement 
Request  Form)  for  Pis  to  use  for  any 
proposed  collaborations  from  here  on. 


COL  Weina  raised  three  points  of  particular  note: 

1.  Facilitate  Research 

2.  Communicate 

3.  Fully  Burden  Research 

- DRP  is  here  as  a facilitator  of  research,  not 
an  obstacle  to  be  overcome.  Let  us  help. 

- Please  communicate  with  us  and  tell  us  how 
we  can  communicate  better  with  you! 

- The  distinction  between  research  and  patient 
care  funding  sources  must  be  understood  and 
respected.  WRNMMC  must  be  appropriately 
reimbursed  for  research  activities  per 
regulation. 


8 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Moving  forward,  DRP  will  be  inviting  participants  to  offer  requests  for  topics  to  be  included  and  members  from  each  of  DRP’s 
sections  will  be  providing  representatives  to  discuss  hot  topics  related  to  their  sections. 

We  invite  you  to  join  us  for  our  next  Roundtable  on  Tuesday,  March  24, 2015, 1200-1300,  in  the  America  Building  (Bldg. 
19),  Room  2301,  Desert  Conference  Room. 

Ms.  Lisa  Thompson,  Supervisory  Medical  Education  Specialist,  will  be  hosting  the  Research  Roundtable.  Please  RSVP  any 
presentation  or  topic  of  discussion  you  would  like  to  speak  about  during  this  meeting  so  that  it  will  be  placed  on  the  agenda. 

Speakers  will  receive  an  agenda  listing  their  topics  of  discussion  prior  to  the  meeting.  An  agenda  will  be  provided  to  all 
attendees  during  the  Roundtable.  Please  email  Mr.  Gregory  Greer  at  gregorv.g.greer.ctr@mail.mil  with  a or 
lisa.p.thompson5.civ@mail.mil  with  any  topics  you  would  like  discussed. 

Please  note  the  reserved  dates  for  Room  2301  through  September  2015: 

Tuesday,  April  21,  1200-1300 
Tuesday,  May  19,  1200-1300 
Tuesday,  June  23,  1200-1300 
Tuesday,  July  21,  1200-1300 
Tuesday,  August  18,  1200-1300 
Tuesday,  September  22,  1200-1300 


Behind  the  Scenes  - Keeping  the  Baii  Roiiing 


What  role  do  you  play  in  human  subjects’  research? 

In  human  subjects’  research  I ensure  all  the  doctors  have  what  they  need  for  training: 
access  to  the  lab;  proper  space;  all  the  equipment  they  need.  My  relationship  to 
research  is  solely  in  the  Biomedical  Research  Laboratory.  I’m  the  NCOIC  of  the  BRL. 
I’m  often  the  safety  coordinator  in  the  lab  and  the  go-to  person  for  training. 


What  can  researchers  do  to  make  your  role  more  effective  and  efficient? 

Please  give  me  a call  so  I can  provide  you  with  access  to  the  lab.  Please  email  me  or 
and  call  letting  me  know  what  do  you  need  to  get  in  the  lab. 


SGT  Robert  A.  Martinez 
Noncommissioned  Officer  In  Charge 
Biomedical  Research  Laboratory 


What  tips  would  you  offer  researchers  to  get  their  protocols  approved  faster  or  to  improve  their  research? 


To  get  your  research  on  the  ball  and  rolling,  the  most  important  thing  is  the  date.  If  you 
could  say,  “We  start  our  protocols  on  this  date,”  I can  make  sure  you  have  the  lab  training 
you  need  before  the  protocol  starts  so  when  it  does  start  you  can  get  in  the  lab  and  start 
working  immediately. 

My  work  serves  as  a precursor  to  any  lab  work  related  to  the  protocols.  Lab  training  is 
mandatory  before  anyone  who  enters  the  lab  can  start  any  work:  HAZMAT  training 
(disposing  of  hazardous  materials  properly);  safety  training  (what  to  do  and  not  to  do  in 
the  lab,  what  type  of  footwear  you  have  to  wear,  lab  coats,  not  leaving  the  lab,  etc.). 


9 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


January  2015  WRNMMC  Publications 

(Provided  by  the  Darnall  Medical  Library) 

WRNMMC  authors  are  in  bold. 

1 . Baik  G,  Brietzke  S.  How  much  does  the  type  of  tympanostomy  tube  matter?  A utility-based  Markov  decision  analysis.  Otolaryngol 
Head  Neck  Surg.  201 5 Jan  20.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

2.  Bittencourt  MS,  Hulten  EA,  Ghoshhajra  B,  et  al.  Incremental  prognostic  value  of  kidney  function  decline  over  coronary  artery  disease 
for  cardiovascular  event  prediction  after  coronary  computed  tomography.  Kidney  Int.  2015  Jan  28.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

3.  Bograd  BA,  Radowsky  JS,  Vicente  DA,  Lee  EH,  Davis  TA,  Elster  EA.  An  evolving  uncontrolled  hemorrhage  model  using 
cynomolgus  macaques.  Shock.  2015  Jan  6.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

4.  Burke  HB,  Sessums  LL,  Hoang  A,  et  al.  Electronic  health  records  improve  clinical  note  quality.  J Am  Med  Inform  Assoc. 

201 5;22(1):1 99-205. 

(WRNMMC  Authors:  Baxi  NS,  Capaldi  VF  2nd,  Chen  JM,  Cooper  BA,  Kane  S,  Mallory  RM,  Makary  ZR) 

5.  Carlozzi  NE,  Kratz  AL,  Sander  AM,  et  al.  Health-related  quality  of  life  in  caregivers  of  individuals  with  traumatic  brain  injury: 
development  of  a conceptual  model.  Arch  Phys  Med  Rehabll.  2015;96(1):105-13. 

(WRNMMC  Authors:  Brickell  TA,  Lange  RT 

6.  Casey  K,  Sabino  J,  Jessie  E,  Martin  BD,  Valerio  I.  Flap  coverage  outcomes  following  vascular  injury  and  repair:  chronicling  a decade 
of  severe  war-related  extremity  trauma.  Plast  Reconstr  Surg.  201 5;1 35(1  ):301  -8. 

7.  Collins  JD,  Markham  A,  Service  K,  Reini  S,  Wolf  E,  Sessoms  P.  A systematic  literature  review  of  the  use  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Computer  Assisted  Rehabilitation  Environment  for  research  and  rehabilitation  as  it  relates  to  the  wounded  warrior.  Work. 
2015;50(1):121-9. 

8.  Ebrahim  B,  Sindhura  K,  Okoroh  J,  Sethi  R,  Hulten  E,  Suemoto  C,  Bittencourt  MS.  Meta-analysis  of  ultrafiltration  versus  diuretics 
treatment  option  for 

overload  volume  reduction  in  patients  with  acute  decompensated  heart  failure.  [Article  in  English,  Portuguese]  Arq  Bras  Cardiol.  2015 
Jan  27.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

9.  Erbele  ID,  Bernstein  JG,  Schuchman  Gl,  Brungart  DS,  Rivera  A.  An  initial  experience  of  cochlear  implantation  for  patients  with 
single-sided  deafness  after  prior  osseointegrated  hearing  device.  Otol  Neurotol.  2015;36(1):e24-9. 

10.  Ewers  EC,  Dennison  DH,  Stagllano  DR.  A unique  case  of  adolescent  neuroborreliosis  presenting  with  multiple  cranial  neuritis  and 
cochlear  inflammation  on  magnetic  resonance  imaging.  Pedlatr  Neurol.  201 5;52(1):1 07-9. 

1 1 . Ferguson  MA.  Commentary  on  "protective  effect  of  pulmonary  hypertension  against  right-sided  tamponade  in  pericardial  effusion". 
South  Med  J.  2015;1080):49-50. 

12.  Gan  RW,  Trouw  LA,  Shi  J,  et  al.  Anti-carbamylated  protein  antibodies  are  present  prior  to  rheumatoid  arthritis  and  are  associated  with 
its  future  diagnosis.  J Rheumatol.  2015  Jan  15.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

(WRNMMC  Authors:  Edison  JD,  Gilliland  WR) 

13.  Ganesan  A,  Mesner  O,  Agan  B.  Reply  to  Yang  et  al.  Clin  Infect  DIs.  2015  Jan  26.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

14.  Gill  AA,  Zahm  SH,  Shriver  CD,  Stojadinovic  A,  McGlynn  KA,  Zhu  K.  Colon  cancer  lymph  node  evaluation  among  military  health 
system  beneficiaries:  an  analysis  by  race/ethnicity.  Ann  Surg  Oncol.  201 5;22(1):1 95-202. 

15.  Grammer  GG,  Wllllams-Joseph  S,  Cesar  A,  Adkinson  DK,  Spevak  C.  Significant  reduction  in  phantom  limb  pain  after  low-frequency 
repetitive  transcranial  magnetic  stimulation  to  the  primary  sensory  cortex.  Mil  Med.  2015;180(1):e126-e128. 

16.  Hauser  PJ,  VanGordon  SB,  Seavey  J,  et  al.  Abnormalities  in  expression  of  structural,  barrier,  and  differentiation  related  proteins  and 
chondroitin  sulfate  in  the  urothelium  of  cats  with  feline  interstitial  cystitis  mimic  those  seen  in  human  interstitial  cystitis.  J Urol.  2015  Jan 
27.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

17.  Hendershot  BD,  Wolf  EJ.  Mediolateral  joint  powers  at  the  low  back  among  persons  with  unilateral  transfemoral  amputation.  Arch  Phys 
Med  Rehabll.  201 5;96(1):1 54-7. 

18.  Hooten  WM,  Cohen  SP,  Rathmell  JP.  Introduction  to  the  symposium  on  pain  medicine.  Mayo  Clin  Proc.  2015;90(1):4-5. 

19.  lida  J,  Dorchak  J,  Clancy  R,  et  al.  Role  for  chondroitin  sulfate  glycosaminoglycan  in  NEDD9-mediated  breast  cancer  cell  growth.  Exp 
Cell  Res.  201 5;330(2):358-70. 

(WRNMMC  Author:  Shriver  CD) 

20.  Kang  DG,  Holekamp  TF,  Wagner  SC,  Lehman  RA  Jr.  Intrasite  vancomycin  powder  for  the  prevention  of  surgical  site  infection  in  spine 
surgery:  a systematic  literature  review.  Spine  J.  2015  Jan  27.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

21 . Kang  DG,  Lehman  RA  Jr,  Wagner  SC,  Bevevino  AJ,  Tracey  RW,  Gaume  RE,  Dmitriev  AE.  Effects  of  rod  reduction  on  pedicle 
screw  fixation  strength  in  the  setting  of  Ponte  osteotomies.  Spine  J.  201 5;1 5(1  ):1 46-52. 

22.  KImes  K,  Love  T,  Bingham  J,  Marquart  J.  Repair  of  an  unwanted  navel  piercing.  Dermatol  Surg.  201 5;41  (1  ):1 80-1 . 

23.  Krause  M,  Byom  L,  Meulenbroek  P,  Richards  S,  O'Brien  K.  Supporting  the  literacy  skills  of  adolescents  with  traumatic  brain  injury. 
Semin  Speech  Lang.  2015;36(1):60-73. 

24.  Lamb  SV,  Massengill  J,  Sheridan  MJ,  Stern  LE,  von  Pechmann  W.  Safety  of  combined  abdominal  sacral  colpopexy  and  sigmoid 
resection  with  suture  rectopexy:  a retrospective  cohort  study.  Female  Pelvic  Med  Reconstr  Surg.  201 5 Jan-Feb;21  (1  ):1 8-24. 

25.  Lee  RU,  Parrish  SC,  Saeed  O,  Fiedler  JP.  Combat  internist:  the  internal  medicine  experience  in  a combat  hospital  in  Afghanistan.  Mil 
Med.  2015;180(1):12-16. 

26.  Lehman  RA  Jr,  Kang  DG,  Lenke  LG,  Stallbaumer  JJ,  Sides  BA.  Pulmonary  function  following  adult  spinal  deformity  surgery:  minimum 
two-year  follow-up.  J Bone  Joint  Surg  Am.  2015;97(1):32-9. 

27.  Lin  JC,  Ettinger  RA,  Schuman  JT,  et  al.  Six  amino  acid  residues  in  a 1200  A2  interface  mediate  binding  of  Factor  VIII  to  an  lgG4? 
inhibitory  antibody.  PLoS  One.  201 5;1 0(1  ):e01 1 6577. 

(Walter  Reed  Author:  WamIq-AdhamI  M) 


10 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


28.  Lucas  DJ,  Sabino  J,  Shriver  CD,  Pawlik  TM,  Singh  DP,  Vertrees  AE.  Doing  more:  trends  in  breast  cancer  surgery,  2005  to  201 1 . 
Am  Surg.  2015;81  (1):74-80. 

29.  Mattingly  EO.  Dysfluency  in  a service  member  with  comorbid  diagnoses:  a case  study.  Mil  Med.  201 5;1 80(1  ):e1 57-e1 59. 

30.  McCluskey  TC,  Stany  MP,  Hamilton  CA.  Pyocolpos  presenting  as  a large  pelvic  mass  after  total  colpocleisis.  Am  J Obstet  Gynecol. 
2015;212(1):113.e1-2. 

31 . Moore  AC,  Clausen  SS,  Johnson  LA.  Tuberculosis  contact  investigation  in  a military  health  care  setting:  case  report  and  evidence 
review.  Mil  Med.  201 5;1 80(1  ):38-44. 

32.  Mula  KN,  Cassler  NM,  Lackey  JN.  Granulomatous  rosacea  manifesting  after  herpes  simplex  2 infection:  A case  of  Wolfs  isotopic 
response.  J Am  Acad  Dermatol.  2015  Jan;72(1):e36-7. 

33.  Okulicz  JF,  Le  TD,  Agan  BK,  et  al.  Influence  of  the  timing  of  antiretroviral  therapy  on  the  potential  for  normalization  of  immune  status  in 
human  immunodeficiency  virus  1-infected  individuals.  JAMA  Intern  Med.  2015;175(1):88-99. 

(WRNMMC  Author:  Ganesan  A) 

34.  Patel  JA,  Kaufman  AS,  Howard  RS,  Rodriguez  CJ,  Jessie  EM.  Risk  factors  for  urinary  retention  after  laparoscopic  inguinal  hernia 
repairs.  Surg  Endosc.  2015  Jan  1 . [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

35.  Phippen  NT,  Leath  CA  3rd,  Havrilesky  LJ,  Barnett  JC.  Bevacizumab  in  recurrent,  persistent,  or  advanced  stage  carcinoma  of  the 
cervix:  Is  it  cost-effective?  Gynecol  Oncol.  201 5;1 36(1  ):43-7. 

36.  Rymarczuk  GN,  Dirks  MS,  Whittaker  DR,  Neal  CJ.  Symptomatic  lumbar  osteochondroma  treated  via  a multidisciplinary  military 
surgical  team:  case  report  and  review  of  the  literature.  Mil  Med.  2015;180(1):e129-e133. 

37.  Schulman-Marcus  J,  Hartaigh  BO,  Giambrone  AE,  et  al.  Effects  of  cardiac  medications  for  patients  with  obstructive  coronary  artery 
disease  by  coronary  computed  tomographic  angiography:  Results  from  the  multicenter  CONFIRM  registry.  Atherosclerosis. 
2015;238(1):1 19-25. 

(WRNMMC  Author:  Vllllnes  TC) 

38.  Stacy  V.  Posttraumatic  stress  disorder  in  the  combat  veteran.  Prof  Case  Manag.  2015;20(1):52-7. 

39.  Stagllano  DR,  Nylund  CM,  Eide  MB,  Eberly  MD.  Children  with  Down  syndrome  are  high-risk  for  severe  respiratory  syncytial  virus 
disease.  J Pediatr.  2015  Jan  13. 

40.  Sullivan  KW,  Solomon  NP,  Pramuka  M,  Quinn  JE,  Teixeira  KA,  French  LM.  Computer-based  cognitive  rehabilitation  research  in  a 
military  treatment  facility:  Recruitment,  compliance,  and  lessons  learned.  Work.  2015;50(1):131-42. 

41 . Teng  P,  Bateman  NW,  Darcy  KM,  Hamilton  CA,  Maxwell  GL,  Bakkenist  CJ,  Conrads  TP.  Pharmacologic  inhibition  of  ATR  and  ATM 
offers  clinically  important  distinctions  to  enhancing  platinum  or  radiation  response  in  ovarian,  endometrial,  and  cervical  cancer  cells. 
Gynecol  Oncol.  2015  Jan  2.  [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

42.  Thomas  A,  Rajan  A,  Berman  A,  et  al.  Sunitinib  in  patients  with  chemotherapy-refractory  thymoma  and  thymic  carcinoma:  an  open-label 
phase  2 trial.  Lancet  Oncol.  2015.  pii:  81470-2045(14)71 181-7. 

(WRNMMC  Authors:  Brzezniak  C,  Carter  CA) 

43.  Torres  DM,  Flarrison  SA.  Nonalcoholic  fatty  liver  disease:  Fibrosis  portends  a worse  prognosis.  Hepatology.  2015  Jan  6.  [Epub  ahead 
of  print] 

44.  Valerio  1,  Green  JM  3rd,  Sacks  JM,  Thomas  S,  Sabino  J,  Acarturk  TO.  Vascularized  osseous  flaps  and  assessing  their  bipartate 
perfusion  pattern  via  intraoperative  fluorescence  angiography.  J Reconstr  Microsurg.  2015;31(1):45-53. 

45.  VIgersky  RA.  The  benefits,  limitations,  and  cost-effectiveness  of  advanced  technologies  in  the  management  of  patients  with  diabetes 
mellitus.  J Diabetes  Sci  Technol.  2015  Jan  2.  pii:  1932296814565661 . [Epub  ahead  of  print] 

46.  Wang  J,  Zuo  Y,  Man  YG,  et  al.  Pathway  and  network  approaches  for  identification  of  cancer  signature  markers  from  omics  data.  J 
Cancer.  2015  1 ;6(1):54-65. 

(WRNMMC  Author:  Stojadinovic  A) 

47.  Weintrob  AC,  Welsbrod  AB,  Dunne  JR,  et  al.  Combat  trauma-associated  invasive  fungal  wound  infections:  epidemiology  and  clinical 
classification.  Epidemiol  Infect.  2015;143(1):214-24. 

(Additional  WRNMMC  Authors:  Rodriguez  CJ,  Malone  D,  Warkentlen  TE,  Wells  J) 

48.  Wen  T,  Dellon  ES,  Moawad  FJ,  Furuta  GT,  Aceves  SS,  Rothenberg  ME.  Transcriptome  analysis  of  proton  pump  inhibitor-responsive 
esophageal  eosinophilia  reveals  proton  pump  inhibitor-reversible  allergic  inflammation.  J Allergy  Clin  Immunol.  2015;135(1):187- 
197.e4. 

49.  White  JM,  Golarz  SR,  White  PW,  Craig  RM,  Whittaker  DR.  Intraoperative  duplex  ultrasound  criteria  for  performing  interposition 
bypass  in  the  treatment  of  popliteal  artery  entrapment  syndrome.  Ann  Vase  Surg.  2015;29(1):124.e7-124.e12. 

50.  White  SF,  Costanzo  ME,  Blair  JR,  Roy  MJ.  PTSD  symptom  severity  is  associated  with  increased  recruitment  of  top-down  attentional 
control  in  a trauma-exposed  sample.  Neuroimage  Clin.  2014;7:19-27. 

51 . Wippold  FJ  2nd,  Brown  DC,  Broderick  DF,  et  al.  ACR  appropriateness  criteria  dementia  and  movement  disorders.  J Am  Coll  Radiol. 
2015;12(1):19-28. 

(WRNMMC  Author:  Jurgens  JS) 

52.  Yun  FIC,  Weintrob  AC,  Conger  NG,  et  al.  Healthcare-associated  pneumonia  among  U.S.  combat  casualties,  2009  to  2010.  Mil  Med. 
2015;180(1):104-110. 


Feedback  on  the  Newsletter 


Please  send  feedback  on  the  newsletter  to: 


dha.bethesda.ncr-medical.list.wrnin-drp-newsletter-feedback@mail.mil 


11 


DEPARTMENT  OF  RESEARCH  PROGRAMS  NEWSLETTER 


Appendix  1 - randomized  Evaiuation  of  a Novel  prevention  program  on  vascular  function  and 

aTHerosclerosis 


JWWJTTO IMPROVFYOOR  HEART 
CONSIDER  JOINING  THE  ZENITH  TRIAL! 


Tlie  ZENITH  Trial: 

randomized  Evaluation  of  a Novel  ureventlon  j)rogi*ani  on  vascidai*  fimction  and 

aTHeroselerosis 

PRINC1P.ALIN\TSTIGAT0R: 

ETC  Todd  Villines,  MC,  USA,  Integrated  Cardiology  Service,  \VRNMMC  Bethesda 
In  conjunction  Tdth  the  Integrative  Cardiac  Health  Project  (ICHP) 

Studies  have  shorm  that  healthy  Iifest}de  behaviors  (heart  healthy  diet,  exercise,  stress  management  and 
improved  sleep  habits  ) are  associated  vdth  a low  er  risk  of  developing  heart  disease  if  you  have  high  blood 
pressure,  are  overweight  or  smoke. 

The  purpose  of  this  study  is  to  see  how  well  the  practice  of  heart  healthy  behaviors  as  prescribed  by  the  ICHP 
Cardiovascular  Health  Program  can  improve  risks  for  heart  disease. 

ELIGIBILin: 

* Be  18-50  years  old 

* Be  willing  to  participate  m a lifestyle  program 

* Must  have  had  a cholesterol  check  during  the  past  year 

* Be  otherwise  in  good  health 

TIME  COMMITMENT;  Up  to  10  visits  (1-4  hours  per  visit)  over  one  year  at  WRNMMC  Bethesda 

For  more  information,  please  contact:  Elaine  Walizer  MSN,  RN  301-400-mi  /elaine.m.walizer.ctr@health.mil 

jody  Bindeman  RN,  301-295-U78  /)ody.e.bindeman.dv@health.mil 


12 


