NOTfi.CE  OJK  C O IN FIP E N TlA h O ' Y  RIGHTS:  J  J?  YOU  ARK  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OK  AJLJL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

I'uhIiiihjik  if"  ('WW)  —  J'nkl  Up 
Willi  (i'UI  Acrna  I'milili].'  1'ruvi.nijM 
STANDARD  I.PAgi;  v.!i 


1  HIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  Is  Hindu  this  /  /  flay  of  ji-  f  V  .  Z0D°.  [>V  anct  between 


whose  sddresss  ig  V  ^  J  V  Ji's//..      /■//.■<;  A  t„A.       /y  i  c  /U  £  /  i ,    Zt-X  -7"~f"      7A  ///'  as  Lessor, 

and,  DALE  PROPERTY  S1ZRVICES,  L.L.C.,  Z 1  UP  Bubs  Avgmuo,  5uiLe  1U7D  DallUB  Texas  7GZP1.  as  Lessee-  All  prlulwl  portions  or  Ihis  lease"  were  prepared  by  the  parly 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  bill  nil  oilier  provisions  (Including  [he  wimple  [ion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jolnlly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

I.  In  consideration  of  n  cash  bnnus  In  hand  paid  and  lire  covenants  herein  contained,  Lor.snr  hereby  graiils,  leases  and  lels  exclusively  lo  Lessee  Ihe  following 
described  land,  liBrHlnaUnr  called  leased  premises 

,  /' ,/  >  __  ACRES  OF  LAND,  MORE  OR  LL-SS,  HIDING  LOT(S)  jj   ,  BLOCK  X 


OUT  OF  THE  ft&ilic      £i  f*,te-i   ADDITION,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF 

pF/r  n  LA  -  ■-->    ,  I  Aim  ANT  COUNTY,TEXAS,  ACCORDING  TO  THAT  CERTAIN  FLAT  RECORDED 

IN  VOLUME     ^S'jfy^/A  PAGE  2  J  OF  THE  PLAT  RECORDS  OF  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS. 

in  lbs  County  of_l  cllTQHt  Slate  or  TEXAS,  containing  _  gross  acre;;,  more  or  less  (including  any  Interests  Ihereln  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 

reversion,  prescription  or  olherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  Tor,  developing,  producing  nnd  marketing  oil  and  gatr,  along,  willi  all  hydrocarbcm  and  non  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  Iheiewilh  (Including  geophyslcal/selsmlu  operalirms).  The  lerm  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dlo«ide  and  oilier 
commercial  guae-g,  ao  well  as  hydrocarbon  gnson  [n  addilion  lo  Ihe  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  slrips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereapei  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  ooiiflgUuus  or  adjacent  in  the  nbnve  described  leaned  nientiseR,  and,  In  consideration  ol  Ihe?  aforementioned  cash  bonus, 
Lessor  agrees  lo  execute  at  Lessee's  requesl  any  additional  or  supplemental  luslrumoiils  lor  n  mora  complete  ui'  accurate  description  ol  Ihe  land  so  covered.  For  Ihe  purpose 
orrieleimlnirig  fhtg  amonnl  or  any  shul-in  royalties  hereunder,  Ihe  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  Khali  be  deemed  curroci,  whether  actually  more  or  loss 

2.  This  lease,  which  Is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  loice  for  a  piliuaiy  lerm  of 

1a  (  t>        )yeais  riurn  Ihe  date  hereof,  and  Tor 

as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  ur  olhur  substances  cuveiail  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  guanines  Ironi  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  Iheiewllh  or  Ihis  lease  is 
otherwise  maintained  in  ellect  pnrsuanl  In  the  provisions  heieof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  oilier  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  In  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  oilier  liquid  hydrocarbons 


separated  al  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  Ihe  royally  ahall  be  n  /  h  -  t~  ■'  <sQ  (       '>       %)  of  such  production,  lo  be  dellveied  al  Lessee's  oplion  lo 

Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  lo  Lessor's  credit  al  Ihn  oil  purchaser's  transportation  laclllties,  provided  thaf Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  lo  purchase  such  production  al 
the  wellhead  maikol  price  then  prevailing  in  the  samo  Hold  (or  if  Ihmn  is  no  such  price  Ihen  prevailing  in  Ihe  sams  Held,  then  in  the  nearest  field  In  which  there  Is  such  a 
pievailiny  price)  [or  produclion  of  similar  grade  nnd  gravity;  (b)  fur  gas  [including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  oilier  substances  covered  hereby,  lire  royally  shall  he 
fkst ,;>sAi-7  ■  fi         __  \    2-J—    %)  or  the  proceeds  raali/ed  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  Ihereuf,  loss  a  proportionate  part  ol  arl  valnrem  taxes  and 

produclion,  severance,  ur  ulher  excise  (axes  and  the  costs  incuned  Ijy  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  oilier  subslanco&,  provided  thai 
Lesaoo  shall  have  Ihe  continuing  rlglit  [o  purchase  such  piuduuliun  fi(  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  pi  ice  paid  tor  pimlucllon  ol  similar  gual'Iy  In  Ihe  same  field  (or  il  Ihers  Is 
no  such  price  Ihsii  pievylling  iu'llie  same  field,  llieu  In  Ihe  nearest  HekJ  In  which  there  In  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchaeo  coulracts  erilered  Into  oit 
[ho  same  or  nearest  preceding  dale  as  Hie  dtite  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  U  al  Ihe  end  or  the  primary  term  or  any  time  Iherealler  one  or 
more  wells  on  [lie  leased  premises  or  lands  pnoled  IhsrHwIIh  are  capable  of  cither  producing  oil  or  yas  or  other  nubslances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells 
are  wailing  on  hydraulic  dacluie  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  produclion  tliem  horn  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  oi  wells  si  rail  nevertheless 
be  deemed  lo  be.  producing  in  paying  quantities  iur  I  ho  purpose  ol  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  peiiod  of  ul)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  produclion 
there  Irom  is  not  being  sold  by  I  essee,  Ihen  Lessee  shall  pay  shut  in  royalty  uf  one  dollar  por  acre  Ihen  covered  by  Ihis  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  lo  Lessor  or  lo 
LB55or's  credit  In  Ihe  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  lire  end  of  said  UU  day  period  and  thereafter  on  ur  before  each  anniversary  or  lire  and  of  said  UO-rtay  period 
while  Ihe  well  or  wells  are  shut  in  or  produclion  there  from  ir,  nol  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  thai  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  mainlalued  by  operalions,  or  ir  produclion 
is  being  sold  by  Lessee  fruui  anulher  well  oi  wells  on  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  [herewith,  nn  shul-in  royally  shall  be  duo  until  Ihe  end  of  Ihe  90-day  period  noxl 
following  cessation  of  such  uperatluna  or  produclion.  Lessee's  failure  lo  properly  pay  shul-in  royally  shall  render  Le^ee  liable  for  Ihe  amount  due,  but  shall  not  uperale  lo 
leiuilnale  this  lease. 

'L  All  shut-in  royally  payments  under  [his  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  lo  Lessor  ur  lo  Lessor's  credit  In  at  lg55ur's  address  qboyjj_  or  lis  successors,  which  shall 
be  Lessor's  deprjBjfoiy  ayenl  for  receiving  payments  regardless  uf  changes  In  Ihe  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  lenders  may  be  made  In  currency,  or  by  check  er  by 
draft  and  such  payments  or  lenders  lo  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  Ihe  Ijy  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  lo  lite  depository  or  to  Ihe  Lessor  al  Ihe  last 
address  known  lo  Lessee  shall  r.ouslllule  proper  peynieul.  If  lire  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  fur  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  lo  accept 
payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  al  1  essee's  request,  deliver  lo  Lessee  a  proper  recoidable  instrument  naming  anolher  inslilulloir  as  depository  agenl  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Excepl  as  provided  lor  In  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  Incapable  or  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole')  on  ihe  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  nil  produclion  {whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  nnd  Ijouiidarles 
pursuant  lo  Ihe  provisions  of  Paragraph  0  or  II le  aclion  of  any  governmental  authority,  Ihen  in  Ihe  even!  Ihis  lease  is  not  olherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  In  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  lor  reworking  an  existing  well  or  fur  drilling  an  nddilional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  produclion 
on  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  Iherawilh  within  00  days  after  completion  of  operalions  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  produclion.  fal 
the  and  of  Hie  primary  lerm,  or  al  any  lime  thereafter,  [his  lease  is  not  olherwise  being  maintained  In  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  leasonably  calculated  lo  oblaln  or  restore  pruduclion  lliernfroni,  tills  lease  shall  remain  in  force  no  long  as  any  one  or  more  ol  such  operations  are  prosecutor!  wrlh 
nu  cessation  of  rooie  than  uO  consecutive  days,  and  ir  any  such  operations  resiiU  in  Ihe  production  of  oil  ur  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  lung  thereafter  as 
there  is  produclion  in  paying  quantities  from  [lie  leased  premises  ur  lands  pooled  therewith.  Alter  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  In  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  Ihe  leased  promises  or  lauds  pooled  Ihorewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  wuuld  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances 
lo  (a)  develop  ihe  leased  premises  as  to  roimntiurrs  Ihen  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quanlilies  on  Ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  ur  (b)  lo  protect  lire 
leased  premises  fium  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  ulliei  landn  no!  pooled  (lierewrlh.  Tliwe  slrs/l  }jb  no  bovwwijI  to  dn)f  expht alary  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein.  .  ,. 

0.  Lessee  shall  have  Ilia  rigbl  but  nol  Ilia  obiigaliou  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  Hie  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  willi  any  oilier  lands  or  mleiesls,  as  to  any  or  an 
depths  or  rones,  and  as  lo  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  Ihis  lease,  ellhei  beluie  or  niler  the  commencement  of  produclion.  whenever-  Lessee  deems  I  necessary  or 
proper  lo  do  so  in  order  lo  prudently  devebo  ur  operate  lire  teased  premises,  whether  or  nul  similar  pooling  authority  exists  wrlh  reaped  lo  such  other  lands  oi  Interests,  i  no 
unit  loirned  by  Brjuh  pooling  tor  an  uil  well  which  is  nol  a  huikontal  cnrnplelion  shall  not  exceed  00  acres  plus  a  maximum  acieage  tolerance  or  IDA,  and  tor  a  gas  wen  or  a 
hoiuontal  completion  shall  nul  exceed  Oil)  aces  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  lhat  a  largei  unit  may  be  formed  or  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  cenlorm  lo  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  ptesciibed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  eulhorlly  having  jiinsdlc lion  o  do  so.  For  too p  rpo  ,e 
of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and '"gas  well"  shall  have  Ihe  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  Ihe  appmpiiale  governmental  aulhodly.  or,  no  ^'J'J'"" 's -° 
prescribed,  "oil  *B||-  means  a  well  wilh  an  Initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1H1I.UO0  cubic  lent  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  inllla  gas-oil  ratio  nf  100.000  cub  e 
feel  or  more  par  barrel,  Irased  on  y.A-Uou,  produdtan  lesi  conOM  umlzr  norms)  producing  condlllons  using  standard  lease  separator  acrl,  les  or  eq  vale  g 
equipment;  and  ihe  tarn,  "horb.onl.l  completion"  manes  an  oil  well  in  which  Ihe  horizontal  componeril  of  the  gloss  compleiron  mlaryal  m  ™IHI,es  or  ^lenl  les  ng 
eqrripuienl;  and  the  torn,  nurkuntel  coreplellon"  ...ea.-s  an  oil  well  in  which  ihe  horizontal  component  ol  the  gross  nomple  lun  In lerva  in  ^  ™d*  I  a  vm  ™i 

clpunent  llieieol.   In  exercising  ils  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  lite  or  record  a  wrillen  declaration  desenbrng  Ihe  unit  and  'h«  ^Zuor 

Produclion,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  Ihe  teased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  ,f  w  e  prodi  hIkk  d  i i  g  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  teased  premises,  except  that  the  produclion  on  which  Lessor's  loyally  is  calculated  shall  be  thai  l™norlrr,n  on I  e  total  un  ^   1  , 

nel  acreage  covered  by  Ihis  tease  and  Included  ir,  the  unit  bears  lo  Ihe  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  o  the  extent  BUC\P'"S^ 

Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  mu,e  Instances  shall  not  cxha.mt  Lessee',  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  too  recurrrng  r  ghl  hut  no  the  ol  ga 'UoJ J°  «VI8°  an^ 

unit  formed  hen  under  by  expansion  or  conirocllon  or  both,  either  belom  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  older  to  conform  lo  he  we 1  flP^  ^  ^ 

prescribed  or  perilled  by  the  qovernmenlal  authority  having  jurisdiction,  o,  lo  conform  lo  any  productive  acreage  r  elemilne  on  rrrad    by  sucl  rjovam rn^l  n 

LkJnrj  such  a  revision,  lLbb shall  Ufe  Dr  record  a  wrillen  declarallon  describing  Ihe  revised  unit  and  slating  the  elfecllve  dale  of  re  v  is  i  o  n .  To  11 1  e  ox\  en '  ^  ^  ||af  j  J  (j  ere  a  1 1  er 

leased  premise.  ,s  Included  in  or  excluded  Irom  Ihe  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  produclion  on  whirl,  royalties  are  paya ! 

be  adjusled  accordingly.  In  Ihe  absence  of  production  in  paying  quanlilies  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  [hereof,  '•^^"f  ,he  111,11  by  M^ 

a  wrillen  dadaiailoi.  describing  lire  unit  and  slating  Ihe  date  nf  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  nol  constitute  a  crosR-couveyance  of  interests. 


7.  If  Lessor  nwnn  less  lhan  the  Full  mineral  estate  In  all  or  any  part  of  the  leaser]  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royallies  payable  hereunder  tor  any  well  on  any  part 
or  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  lull  mineral  estate  in 
such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

(1.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  or  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  lo  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  anil  assigns.  No  change  In  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  nr  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  nr  duly  authenticated  copies  oF  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  or  division  order.  In  the  event  or  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  Lo  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  lender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  or  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  lime  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  ft>  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-m  royalties  to  such  persons  or  lo  (rreir  credit  In  (ho  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  lo  the  interest  which  each  owns,  ir  Lessee  transfers  its  Interest  hereunder  in  wliule  or  In  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  atTecl  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred,  if  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  In  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  lh(3  lease,  the  obligation  lo 
pay  or  lender  shut-In  royalties  hereunder  shall  bo  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  any  lime  and  from  lime  lo  time,  deliver  lo  Lessor  or  lile  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  Interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  there  under,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  io  the  interest  so  released. 
If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  In  less  than  all  or  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  nr  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  heieundei. 

1 0.  in  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  yas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  or  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  ror  such  purposes,  Including  hut  not  limited  lo  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines, 
tanks,  waler  wells,  disposal  wells,  injeclion  wells,  pits,  electilc  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  lo  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  flee  or  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  waler  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  pnncls.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  (he  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  Ibe  ancillary  riglils  yranlerJ 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  In  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  lerminatlon  or  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereatler  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  In 
writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  reel  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lasses  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  For  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  lo  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  malarias,  including  well  casing,  From  the  teased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  he  subject  lo  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  Including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  oilier  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  leworklng, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  oiders,  or  by  Inability  to  obtain  necessary  permils,  equipment,  seivlces,  material, 
water,  eleclricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  Hood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  Insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  lo  lake  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  Ibis  lease  shall  nol  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  al  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  ter  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenanls  of  this  lease  whan  drilling,  praduclion  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  [he  primary  term  oF  Ihis  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  ofTer  which  Lessor  Is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from 
Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  or  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon 
expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  sard  offer  immediately,  including  In  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  (he  offeror,  the  pi  ice  offered 
and  all  oilier  pertinent  [errris  and  conditions  of  the  otter.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  tirteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  lo 
purchase  the  lease  or  part  Iherenf  or  interest  lherein,  covered  by  the  offer  al  the  price  and  according  Id  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  lo  any  breach  or  defaull  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
written  nolice  fully  describing  the  broach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  lo  remedy  the  breach  or  defaull,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  Ihe  matter  Is  litigated  and 
Iheie  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  Ihis  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  In  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable 
time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  Ihe  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  lo  do  so. 

14.  For  tho  same,  considers  lion  red  led  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  Its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  trnm  nil  or  gas  walls  the  surlace  locations  of  which  are 
situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  nut  intended  lu  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or 
olher  benelit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  Ihe  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

113.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  lo  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  lo  the  rights  of  the  party  to 
whom  payment  is  marie,  and,  in  addilion  lo  its  other  rights,  may  leirnburse  Itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  lo  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  Is  made  awarrj  0f  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  tille,  Lessen  may  suspend  Ihe  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished"  satisfactory  evidence  (hat  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  nol  have  any  rights  lo  use  the  surface  ot  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  olher 
operations. 

1 7.  This  tease  may  he  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and 
may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms 
are  Final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  tease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market 
conditions-  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  oFthis  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  Hie  highest  price  or 
dirFerent  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  tease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms 
which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  lo  be  effective  as  of  Ihe  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  nol  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor, 

LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 


By: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF_VlXhO 


COUNTY  OF  ix^miiai  ■  + 


This  instrurnenl  was  ackngwledged  before  me  on  the        /  / 


j  2003, 


day  of 


^otafyPublic,  Stale  oHv-Aff'v 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  RXfi 


COUNTY  OF  ituy-liuy 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
I'V:  _____  .  


day  of 


Z0D0 


Noteiy  Public,  State  of  \.Jr; 
Nolary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  rammisBinn  expires: 


DALE  RESOURCES 

3000  ALTA  MESA  BLVD  STE  300 

FT  WORTH  TX  76133 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$20.00 


iiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

D208283119 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


