Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Jul  29  04:56  PM  a  « 

P    «,nnn  D208295340 

Fee:  $  40.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  7  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


CHEAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP. 
ATTN:  RECORDING  TEAM 
P.O.  Box  18496 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 

Submitter:  Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 


DOCUMENT  E-RECORDED 
IN  THE  COUNTY  RECORDS 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 


WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICAL  RECORD 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPLIFILE 


Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  Is  made  this  T~\     day  of  L  2008,  by  and  between  Tavlor.  Glenn  E.  Jr.  and 

'        spouse.  TMteWwfS..  collectively  referred  to  as  Lessor,  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION.  L.L.C..  an  Oklahoma  Limited  Liability 
S      Company.  P.O.  Box  18496.  Oklahoma  Cltv.  Oklahoma  73154  ■  as  Lessee.  All  pwrfed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and 
Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  In  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets 
exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

SEE  ATTACHED  EXHIBIT  "A"  FOR  LEGAL  DESCRIPTION  AND  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 


in  the  county  of  TARRANT,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.2849  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  Interests  therein  which  Lessor 
may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  tor,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and 
gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic 
operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In 
addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter 
owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned 
cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate 
description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross 
acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  three  (3)  years  from  the  date 
hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased 
premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  In  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a) 
For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  27.25%  of  such  production,  to  be 
delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that 
Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there 
is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar 
grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (Including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  27.25%  of  the 
proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise 
taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that 
Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar 
quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  mere  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which 
Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder,  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but 
such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to 
be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this 
lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day 
period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production 
therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold 
by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the 
90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production,  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee 
liabje  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

(7\  4.  -All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in 
I    Ifflflj  or  ite  successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of 

changes  it [the ^ownerehip  of  sa/d  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or 
tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  In  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the 
last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or 
for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable 
instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments 

5.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including 
a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this 
lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an 
existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the 
end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in 
drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force 
so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such 
operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities 
hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator 
would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by 
any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith. 


6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any 
other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the 
commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased 
premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for 
an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1  o%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for 
an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the 
meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well 
with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  1 00,000  cubic 
feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator 
facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  'horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the 
gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the 
horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling 
rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production, 
drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were 
production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall 
be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross 
acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not 
exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed 
hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing 
or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage 
determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing 
the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from 
the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted 
accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee  may  terminate  the 
unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a 
cross-conveyance  of  interests. 


7-  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties 
payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that 
Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

6.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by 
area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees, 
executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or 
enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  €0  days  after  Lessee  has  been 
furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the 
death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or 
decedents  estate  In  the  depository  designated  above.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area 
covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in 
proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or 
undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an 
undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately 
reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress 
along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but 
not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells, 
disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to 
discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or 
other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or 
marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  to  the  entire  teased  premises 
described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease,  When  requested  by  Lessor  in 
writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  330  feet  from  any 
house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for 
damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial 
timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well 
casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations 
and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil. 
gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such 
laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or 
easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability 
to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause 
not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the 
period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied 
covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against 
the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made, 
and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  Itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In 
the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-In 
royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


|  -LESSOR 

|  BY: 


NAME: 
TITLE 


SSOR  I  -LESSOR 

Will  Bv  fihm,  ?,pnjM>f)l- 

ie:  jyiwrn  VTavjlr     name  c-,!^  f.vlywar. 


title:  Owner 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  0£ 


.        -    -  -  -_-  the  undersigned  notary  public,  on  this  day 

~jV{^  i&ift  f?>  17Ni£?£-  who  is  known  to  me  to  be  the 


Before  me 
personally  appeared 

person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that 
he/she  executed  that  instrument  for  the  purposes  and  consideration  therein  expressed,  and  in 
that  capacity  therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this 


My  Commission  Expires: 
Commission  Number: 


2008. 


'Public,  State  of  Texas 


KAREN  C.  BATTS 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
..-;.^.'>/      My  Commission  Expires 
'  January  IS,  2012 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY 


Before  met, 
personally  appeared 


e  undersigned  notary  public,  on  this  day 
who  is  known  to  me  to  be  the 


person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that 
he/she  executed  that  instrument  for  the  purposes  and  consideration  therein  expressed,  and  in 
that  capacity  therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this 


,  2008. 


Public,  State  of  Texas 


My  Commission  Expires:. 
Commission  Number: 


|1V* 


KAREN  C.  BATTS 

Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
January  IS,  2012 


EXHIBIT  "A' 


Attached  hereto   and   made  a  part  of  that  certain  oil,   gas  and   mineral   lease  as 

|  dated  *7   ^@t$ £  ,  by  and  between  JTaylor,  Glenn  E.  Jr.  and  spouse, 

Tyleisha  S.,  collectively  referred  to  as  Lessor,  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION,  L.L.C, 

as  Lessee. 

ADDENDUM  (ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS): 

IThe  provisions  of  this  Addendum  are  in  addition  to  the  provisions  contained  in  the  lease 
and  are  intended  to  be  covenants  running  with  the  lease  and  the  land  covered  thereby,  and  shall  be 
binding  upon  and  inure  to  the  benefit  of  the  successors  and  assigns  of  the  parties.  This 
Addendum  is  incorporated  into  the  lease  to  which  it  is  attached  and  is  a  part  of  such  lease  for  all 
purposes.  In  the  event  of  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Addendum  and  the  provisions  of 
the  lease  to  which  this  Addendum  is  attached,  the  terms  of  this  Addendum  shall  control  and  be 
controlling. 

1.  Oil  and  Gas  Only.  This  lease  shall  be  limited  to  oil,  gas  and  other  associated 
hydrocarbons  and  sulphur  produced  through  the  well  bore  with  oil  and  gas.  All  references  in  this 
lease  to  "other  minerals"  are  hereby  deleted. 

2.  Shut-in  Royalties.  If,  during  the  primary  term  or  thereafter,  there  is  located  on 
the  leased  premises  (or  land  pooled  therewith  according  to  the  pooling  authority  contained  in  this 
lease)  a  well  completed  and  capable  of  producing  gas  in  commercial  quantities,  but  the 
production  thereof  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended  for  lack  of  a  market,  available  pipeline,  or 
because  of  government  restrictions  or,  if  it  is  economically  inadvisable  for  both  the  Lessor  and 
Lessee  to  sell  gas  for  a  time  as  evidenced  by  a  written  agreement  signed  by  both  parties,  then,  and 
in  any  such  event,  Lessee  may  pay  as  royalty  a  sum  of  money  equal  to  $50.00  per  acre  for  the 
referenced  acreage.  The  first  payment  will  be  due  not  later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date 
the  well  is  shut  in,  and  subsequent  payments  will  be  due  annually  thereafter  (if  this  lease  is  not 
being  otherwise  maintained  in  force)  on  the  anniversary  date  of  the  period  for  which  the  prior 
payment  was  made.  Upon  proper  and  timely  payment  of  royalty  under  this  paragraph,  it  will  be 
considered  that  gas  is  being  produced.  Shut-in  royalty  may  be  paid  direct  to  Lessor  at  the 
addresses  set  out  in  this  lease.  In  no  event  may  this  lease  be  perpetuated  as  to  any  of  the  lease 
premises  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  a  period  exceeding  three  (3)  years  in  the 
aggregate. 

3.  No  Surface  Use.  The  surface  of  the  leased  premises  shall  not  be  used  by  Lessee 
for  any  reason,  even  though  Lessee  may  claim  rights  of  use  through  other  parties.  Lessee 
expressly  releases  and  waives  all  rights  of  ingress  and  egress  and  all  other  rights  of  every  kind 
and  character  whatsoever  to  enter  upon  or  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  any  part 
thereof,  including,  without  limitation,  the  right  to  enter  upon  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises 
for  purposes  of  exploring  for,  developing,  drilling,  producing,  transporting,  mining,  treating, 
storing  or  any  other  purpose  incident  to  the  development  of  production  of  the  oil,  gas  and  other 
minerals,  in,  on,  and  under  the  leased  premises.  This  release  and  waiver  is  a  material 
consideration  to  Lessor's  agreements  hereunder,  and,  but  for  such  release  and  waiver,  Lessor 
would  not  lease  the  leased  premises  to  Lessee.  Lessee  may  develop  the  minerals  underlying  the 
leased  premises  by  pooling  or  unitizing  the  leased  premises  with  other  lands  adjacent  to  the 
leased  premises  and  conducting  drilling  and  other  surface  operations  from  drillsite  locations 
located  off  the  leased  premises  or  by  drilling  subsurface  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells 
underlying  the  leased  premises  from  drillsite  locations  located  off  the  leased  premises. 

4.  Noise.  If  Lessee  obtains  a  drill  site  location  within  400  feet  of  the  leased 
premises,  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be 
kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and 
technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use 
elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being 
conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered 
equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by 
installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment 

5.  Vertical  Pueh.  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  this  lease  shall 
terminate  as  to  all  lands  1 00  feet  below  the  deepest  producing  formation. 

6.  Pooling.  Once  Lessee  has  formed  a  unit  under  the  provisions  of  Section  6  of  the 
lease,  said  unit  shall  not  be  reformed  or  amended  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor. 


7.  Royalty  Payments.  Initial  royalty  payments  shall  be  due  within  one  hundred 
twenty  (120)  days  after  the  end  of  the  month  in  which  first  sales  were  made.  All  subsequent 
royalty  payments  shall  be  due  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of  the  month  in  which  the 
production  occurred.  Should  Lessee  fail  to  pay  such  royalty  within  such  time,  then  Lessee  shall 
pay  to  Lessor  interest  on  said  accrued  royalties  at  the  maximum  rate  permitted  by  law,  from  the 
due  date  until  the  date  of  payment.  The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  paragraph  shall  be  in  addition 
to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to  payment  of  royalty  under  V.T.C.A.  Natural 
Resources  Code  §§  91.401  through  91.405. 

The  receipt  by  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of 
proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator, 
acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  will  at  all 
times  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency, 
bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a  purchaser  of  production  from  the  leased  premises  or 
pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  will  remain  liable  for 
payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest  if 
not  timely  paid.  Lessor  retains  the  right  to  terminate  the  Lease  for  failure  to  pay  royalties,  after  a 
period  of  written  notice  and  opportunity  to  cure  which  shall  not  exceed  sixty  (60)  days. 

8.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  This  Lease  is  given  and  granted  without  warranty  of  title, 
express  or  implied,  in  law  or  in  equity.  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee,  at  Lessee's  option,  may 
purchase  or  discharge,  in  whole  or  in  part,  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  Hen  upon  the  leased 
premises  and  thereupon  be  subrogated  to  the  right  of  the  holder  thereof,  and  may  apply  royalties 
accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same  or  reimbursing  Lessee.  It  is  also  agreed  that  if  Lessor 
owns  an  interest  in  the  oil  and  gas  under  the  leased  premises  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate 
therein,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  shall  be  reduced  proportionately. 

9.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS 
LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST 
ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF 
ANY  NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY  FEES, 
EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  THE 
LAND  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY 
VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN 
THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS, 
EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING 
UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS. 
LESSEE'S  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  SURVIVE  THE  TERMINATION  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

10.  Compliance  with  Laws.  Lessee  covenants  that  it  will  strictly  comply  with  all 
applicable  laws,  regulations  and  ordinances  in  conducting  all  operations  under  this  lease. 

1 1 .  Force  Majeure.  The  events  of  force  majeure  (described  in  the  printed  lease), 
shall  exclude  any  occurrence  or  cause  reasonably  within  the  control  of  Lessee.  Moreover,  Lessee 
shall  take  all  reasonable  actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  of  force  majeure  as  soon  as 
reasonably  possible.  The  lease  shall  not  be  held  in  force  and  effect  by  its  force  majeure  provision 
for  a  period  of  greater  than  two  (2)  years  in  the  aggregate. 

12.  No  Waiver,  No  waiver  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  lease  shall  be  deemed  or 
constitute  a  waiver  of  any  other  provision  of  this  lease.  Likewise,  the  failure  of  Lessor  to  enforce 
any  provision  of  this  lease  shall  not  be  deemed  nor  shall  constitute  a  waiver  of  the  right  of  Lessor 
to  enforce  such  provision. 

13.  Attorneys'  Fees,  If  Lessor  or  Lessee  files  a  legal  action  to  enforce  any  express  or 
implied  obligation  of  this  lease  and  receives  a  final  unappealable  judgment  from  a  court  of 
competent  jurisdiction,  then  the  prevailing  party  shall  be  reimbursed  for  all  costs  of  such  legal 
proceedings,  including  reasonable  attorneys'  fees  and  costs. 

14.  No  Deductions/Affiliate  Sales.  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that, 
notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the 
Lessor  under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing, 
gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and 
marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  produced  hereunder;  provided  however,  any  such  costs 
incurred  on  an  unaffiliated  interstate  or  intrastate  gas  pipeline  which  result  in  enhancing  the 
value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from 
Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such 
enhancements.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than,  the  price 
received  by  Lessee.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  are  to  be 
fully  enforceable  and  effective  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as  "surplusage"  under  the  principles 
set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank,  939  S.W.2d  1 18  (Tex.  1997). 


15.      Division  Orders.  Should  Lessor  agree  to  execute  a  Division  Order,  it  is  agreed 
that  no  Division  Order  (or  any  Transfer  Order)  shall  increase  or  diminish  the  agreements  and 


provisions  contained  herein.  In  sum,  if  any  such  Division  Order  or  Transfer  Order  contains 
wording  contrary  to  the  provisions  herein  and  Lessor  executes  same  without  amending  such 
language,  the  agreements  and  provisions  herein  shall  supercede  those  of  the  Division  Order  or 
Transfer  Order. 

16.  Insurance.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and 
maintain  insurance  covering  all  of  its  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  including  any  work 
performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors,  subcontractors  and  others.  The  policies  shall  include 
coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability  for  bodily  injury  and  property  damage  with  a  limit 
of  $  3,000,000,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the 
environment  resulting  from  a  blowout,  including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean  up  and  surface 
remediation,  with  a  limit  of  $  3,000,000.  In  addition,  Lessee  shall  maintain  an  Umbrella  Liability 
policy  in  the  amount  of  $  25,000,000.  Lessee  may  self  insure  for  up  to  $  5,000,000  with  respect  to 
the  insurance  coverage  required  of  Lessee,  provided  that  the  tangible  net  worth  of  Lessee  is,  at  all 
times  while  self-insurance  is  in  effect,  in  excess  of  $  1,000,000,000. 

17.  Option  to  Extend.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  if, 
at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  the  Lease,  the  Lease  is  not  being  maintained  in  effect  in 
any  manner  provided  for  herein,  including  but  not  limited  to  operations  upon  or  production  from 
the  Leased  Premises  or  on  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  shall  have  the  exclusive  right  and  option 
to  renew  and  extend  the  Lease  as  to  the  lands  then  covered  thereby  or  any  portion  chosen  by 
Lessee  for  an  additional  two  (2)  years,  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  as  stated 
herein,  by  payment  or  tender  to  Lessor  $18,250.00  per  net  mineral  acre  on  or  before  30  days 
before  expiration  of  the  then  applicable  primary  term.  Such  sum  shall  be  reduced  under  the 
applicable  Lease  provisions,  including  but  not  limited  to  proportionate  reduction  based  on 
ownership  of  Lessor. 


LAND  DESCRIPTION: 

0,2849  acres,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  L  Flores  Survey,  Abstract  No.  507,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  conveyed  by  Deed  dated  3/26/2003,  as  recorded  in  Volume  16608.  Page  67  of 
the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  also  known  as  Lot  8,  Block  10,  of  Garden 
Springs,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth.  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the 
Plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A.  Slide  6524,  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


2017.11000/283184 

Record  &  Return  to: 
Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 
P.O.  Box 

Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 


