OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  \Of^\  ^ W - ^c 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR 
RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  is  entered  into  this  4th  day  of  June  2008,  by  and  between  IRON  T  ENTERPRISES, 
LLC  ("Lessor"),  whose  address  is  3617  4th  Avenue  Unit  5,  San  Diego,  California  92103,  and  HOLLIS  R.  SULLIVAN, 
INC.  ("Lessee"),  whose  address  is  P.O.  Box  9289,  Wichita  Falls,  Texas  76308. 

1.  FOR  VALUABLE  CONSIDERATION,  the  receipt  and  sufficiency  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged, 
and  subject  to  the  terms  and  provisions  contained  herein,  Lessor  does  hereby  LEASE  exclusively  unto  Lessee  the 
land  described  below  herein  referred  to  as  the  "Leased  Premises"  for  the  purposes  of  exploring  and  drilling  for, 
producing,  storing,  treating,  transporting  and  marketing  oil  and  gas  and  all  substances  produced  therewith,  conferring 
all  rights  and  easements  reasonably  necessary  or  useful  for  Lessee's  operations  hereunder.  The  Leased  Premises  is 
described  as  follows: 

Being  all  of  Lot  16  Block  4,  Lonesome  Dove  Estates,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  according  to  plat  thereof  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  4570,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and 
being  further  described  in  that  certain  Quit  Claim  Deed,  dated  June  7,  2007,  from  Iron  T  Enterprises,  LP,  to 
Iron  T  Enterprises,  LLC,  said  deed  recorded  as  Document  No.  D2080S6016  Official  Public  Records,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas. 

2.  This  is  a  Paid  Up  Lease.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in 
force  for  a  term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  the  date  shown  above,  hereafter  called  the  "Primary  Term"  and  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  operations  are  conducted  thereon  as  herein  provided. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  to  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipeline  to  which 
Lessee  may  connect  its  wells  or  in  the  absence  of  pipeline  connection,  into  Lessee's  storage  facilities  the  equal  to 
twenty  two  percent  (22%)  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  the  Leased  Premises,  Lessor's  interest  to 
bear  the  same  percent  of  the  costs  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable;  (b)  to  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas 
produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  (1)  when  sold  by  Lessee,  twenty  two  percent  (22%)  of  the  amount  realized  by 
Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  in  the 
manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  well  of  the  same  percent  of  such  gas  and 
casinghead  gas.  The  royalties  provided  in  this  Lease  shall  be  determined  and  delivered  to  Lessor  free  of  any  monetary 
out  of  pocket  costs  of  development,  production,  compression,  processing,  treating,  gathering,  transportation,  delivery, 
marketing,  or  other  post-production  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  beyond  the  wellhead  to  the  point  of  delivery  to  the  gas 
gatherer,  transporter  or  purchaser,  whichever  occurs  first,  excepting  however  taxes  of  any  character  applicable  to 
Lessor's  share  of  production  that  are  paid  by  Lessee.  This  paragraph  is  not  surplusage,  but  shall  govern  over  all  other 
royalty  provisions  of  this  Lease. 

4.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  Lease  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  will  cover  only  oil,  gas  and 
associated  hydrocarbons  and  shall  not  cover  any  other  substances  or  minerals. 

5.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with 
any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons, 
so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres,  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however, 
units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to  any  one  or  more 
horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  320  surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the 
following:  (1)  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the 
subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having 
jurisdiction,  if  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the  time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are 
permitted  or  allowed  under  any  governmental  ruie  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location,  or 
for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled  any  such  unit  may  be  established 
or  enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to 
each  desired  unit  by  executing  an  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this 
lease  is  recorded.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease 
is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  production  has  been  established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said 
land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective 
for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit, 
which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be 
considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease. 
There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit 
if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the 
unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each 
such  separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the 
production  so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty 
and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which 
allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the 
reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph 
or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The 
formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or 
transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable 
under  this  lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land 


not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  lessee  to  release,  except  that  lessee  may  not  so  release 
as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released 
as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder 
by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  no 
operations  are  being  conducted  thereon  for  unitized  minerals.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph,  a  unit  once 
established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now 
or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is 
intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  lessee  shall 
nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph,  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as 
herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing, 
now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

6.  If  at  any  time  there  is  a  well  on  the  Leased  Premises  capable  of  producing  gas,  but  the  well  has 
stopped  being  produced  for  a  lack  of  a  market  or  other  good  cause  and  this  Lease  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by 
some  other  provision  hereof,  then  it  shall  nevertheless  continue  in  force  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date 
such  well  is  shut-in  or  the  date  this  Lease  ceases  to  be  continued  in  force  by  some  other  provision  hereof,  whichever  is 
the  later  date,  and  prior  to  the  expiration  of  such  ninety  (90)  day  period  and  annually  thereafter,  Lessee  may  pay  or 
tender  to  Lessor  an  advance  royalty  called  "Shut-In  Gas  Royalty"  in  an  amount  equal  to  $5.00  per  acre  for  the  acreage 
then  held  under  this  Lease  by  such  well  and  so  long  as  such  payments  or  tenders  are  so  made  this  Lease  shall 
continue  in  force  and  effect  and  it  shall  be  considered  that  gas  is  being  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  within  the 
meaning  of  Paragraph  2  of  this  Lease. 

7.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  oil  or  gas  is  not  being  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or  shall  have  completed 
a  well,  either  as  a  producer  or  a  dry  hole,  within  120  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall  remain 
in  force  so  long  as  operations  are  continued  in  good  faith  and  with  reasonable  diligence  and  not  more  than  one- 
hundred  eighty  (180)  days  shall  elapse  between  the  completion  or  abandonment  of  a  well  and  the  commencement  of 
operations  to  drill  a  subsequent  well  and,  if  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long  thereafter  as 
oil  and  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises. 

8.  If  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  production  thereof 
should  cease  for  any  reason  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  within 
one-hundred  twenty  (120)  days  from  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  to  commence  reworking  or  additional  drilling 
operations  in  an  effort  to  resume  production,  in  which  event  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  such  operations 
are  conducted  in  good  faith  and  with  reasonable  diligence  with  no  cessation  of  operations  of  more  than  120 
consecutive  days  and  if  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is 
produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

9.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof 
shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns;  however,  no  change  in  the  ownership  of 
the  land,  rentals  or  royalty  or  the  division  thereof  however  accomplished  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or 
diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee.  No  change  in  the  ownership  or  the  division  of  the  land  or  royalties  shall  be  binding  upon 
the  Lessee  for  any  purpose  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  the  instrument  or  instruments 
or  recorded  copies  thereof  resulting  in  such  change. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons 
whomsoever.  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  for  Lessor  either  before  or 
after  maturity  any  mortgage,  taxes  or  other  liens  or  interests  and  other  charges  against  the  Leased  Premises  not 
subordinated  to  this  Lease  and  to  be  subordinated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  the  amounts  so  paid 
from  royalties  or  other  amounts  due  or  which  may  become  due  to  Lessor  under  this  Lease.  If  Lessor  owns  less  interest 
in  the  mineral  estate  in  the  Leased  Premises  then  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate,  or  no  interest  therein, 
then  the  lease  bonus,  royalties  and  other  payments  herein  provided  shall  be  paid  to  Lessor  only  in  the  proportion  which 
Lessor's  interest,  if  any,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate,  In  the  event  it  is  determined  that  the 
bonus  amount  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  is  other  than  the  amount  due  Lessor  then,  Lessor  agrees  to  refund  anything  in 
excess  of  the  true  amount  due  to  Lessor. 

11.  All  Lessee's  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises  will  be  subject  to  and  will  be  conducted  in  compliance 
with  all  federal,  state,  county,  city  and  other  laws,  rules,  ordinances,  regulations  and  requirements.  Lessee  will  assume 
all  costs  of  insuring  that  its  operations  comply  with  all  applicable  laws.  This  Lease  shall  not  be  terminated  in  whole  or 
in  part,  nor  Lessee  held  liable  for  damages  for  failure  to  comply  with  the  terms  herein  set  forth,  if  compliance  is 
prevented  by  or  such  failure  is  a  result  of  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  applicable  federal,  state,  county  or  other 
governmental  authority  or  deed  restriction  and  if  not  otherwise  being  maintained  herein,  the  Primary  Term  hereof  shall 
be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days  following  the  removal  of  such 
delaying  cause  and  this  Lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  and/or  production  as  provided  herein  as  if 
such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Whether  or  not  this  Lease  is  executed  by  all  parties  named  herein  as  Lessor,  this  Lease  shall  be 
binding  upon  and  inure  to  the  benefit  of  all  parties  who  execute  it  (whether  or  not  named  herein)  and  all  parties  from 
whom  each  Lessor  has  authority  to  execute  this  Lease.  This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed 
by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or 
surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  leased  premises. 

13.  Lessee  indemnifies  and  holds  Lessor  harmless  from  and  against  any  claims,  costs  and  liabilities  such 
Lessor  may  suffer  whether  for  injury  or  death  to  any  person,  injury  or  damage  to  any  property,  failure  to  adhere  to  or 
comply  with  any  applicable  laws,  rules  or  regulations  or  demand  for  monetary  damages  (collectively  the  "Claims")  to 
the  extent  that  such  Claims  relate  to  or  arises  from  Lessee's  operations  under  this  Lease  or  Lessee's  breach  of  its 
obligations  under  this  Lease. 


14.  No  waiver  by  a  party  hereto  of  any  breach  of  a  term,  condition  or  covenant  of  this  Lease  will  be 
deemed  to  be  a  waiver  of  any  other  breach  of  the  same  or  any  other  term,  condition  or  covenant  contained  herein. 

15.  In  the  event  any  provision  of  this  Lease  is  for  any  reason  held  to  be  invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable  in 
any  respect,  such  invalidity  shall  not  affect  any  other  provision  thereof  and  this  Lease  shall  be  construed  as  if  such 
invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable  provision  had  never  been  contained  herein.  . 

16.  In  the  event  of  any  legal  action  or  proceeding  between  the  parties  seeking  to  enforce  the  terms  of  this 
Lease,  the  prevailing  party  in  such  action  shall  be  entitled  to  recover,  in  addition  to  all  remedies  available  to  it  at  law,  all 
of  its  costs  and  expenses  in  connection  therewith,  including  attorney's  fees  and  costs. 

17.  This  Lease  contains  the  entire  agreement  of  the  parties  regarding  the  subject  matter  hereof  and 
supercedes  any  and  all  prior  agreements,  arrangements  or  understandings  between  the  parties  regarding  such  subject 
matter.  This  Lease  cannot  be  changed  orally  and  may  be  amended  only  by  an  instrument  in  writing  executed  by  the 
parties. 

18.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  executed  and  acknowledged  counterparts  or  ratifications 
hereof  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  to  be  acceptable  and  all  of  which  together  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same 
document. 

19.  Any  notice  required  or  permitted  to  be  given  hereunder  must  be  in  writing  and  must  be  sent  to  the 
parties  via  personal  delivery  or  certified  mail  only  at  their  addresses  set  forth  in  this  Lease  or  at  another  address  upon 
prior  written  notice  of  the  same. 

20.  NO  SURFACE  OPERATIONS.  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  leased  premises,  erect,  set  up  or 
place  any  structure  or  building  on  the  leased  premises,  or  conduct  any  operations  upon  the  surface  of  the  leased 
premises  without  the  written  consent  of  Lessor.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as 
provided  herein,  and/or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands  in  such 
manner  that  the  path  of  the  wellbore  is  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  and  the  bottom-hole  or  terminus  is  on 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

21.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Hollis  R.  Sullivan, 
Inc.,  any  other  third  party  and  its  agent,  TimeSlice  Technology,  Inc.,  permission,  to  conduct  seismic  operations  or 
utilize  existing  data  collected  for  exclusive  use  or  for  an  undershoot  by  other  third  parties  to  image  the  sub-surface  of 
the  leased  premises,  including  the  right  to  lay  source  and  receiver  lines  on  the  leased  premises. 

22.  Lessor  and  Lessee  hereby  agree  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  option,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  extend 
the  primary  term  of  the  Lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  by  paying  to  Lessor  the  sum  of  $200.00  for  all  of 
Lessor's  mineral  interest  in  the  tract  of  land  covered  by  this  Lease,  such  payment  to  be  post  marked  by  U.S.  Mail  on  or 
before  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  to  Lessor's  last  known  mailing  address.  Any  sale  or  conveyance 
of  the  minerals  covered  by  this  lease  shall  be  made  expressly  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  herein. 

LESSOR: 

%  a  -  rJ- 

EFY  O.  TAli) 
TITLE:  MANAGER 

COMPANY:  IRON  T  ENTERPRISES,  LLC 


STATE  OF  CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY  OF  CjA 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  Q\  day  of  _ 
by  Efy  O.  Tal. 

T 


,  2008, 


Notary  Public  - 


California 


After  recording  return  to: 


Hollis  R.  Sullivan,  Inc. 

P.O.  Box  9289 

Wichita  Falls,  Texas  76308 


CALIFORNIA  ALL-PURPOSE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


State  of  California 
County  of 
On  W^-  {{i 


-pi. 


Dale 

personally  appeared 


} 


before  me, 


_  A  Here  Insfert  Name  and  Title  if  the  Officer  f 

a  iff  T 


Name(s)  ol  Signer(s) 


jft<MiK*Ascinri 

,    COMM.  #1730781  z 
I  Notary  Public  -  California  g 
San  Diego  County  - 
Comm.  Expires  Mar.  ^201  1  { 


Place  Notary  Seal  Above 


who  proved  to  me  on  the  basis  of  satisfactory  evidence  to 
be  the  person(af  whose  name(s)  is/afe- subscribed  to  the 
within  instrument  and  acknowledged  to  me  that 
he/she/they  executed  the  same  in  bts/her/tbetr  authorized 
capacityjse),  and  that  byJ*s/her/tbeir  signature^  on  the 
instrument  the  person(sr),  or  the  entity  upon  behalf  of 
which  the  person(s)  acted,  executed  the  instrument. 

I  certify  under  PENALTY  OF  PERJURY  under  the  laws 
of  the  State  of  California  that  the  foregoing  paragraph  is 
true  and  correct. 

WITNESS  my  hand  and  official  seal. 


Signature 


OPTIONAL 


Signature  of  Notary  Public 


Though  the  information  below  is  not  required  by  law,  it  may  prove  valuable  to  persons  relying  on  the  document 
and  could  prevent  fraudulent  removal  and  reattachment  of  this  form  to  another  document. 

Description  of  Attached  Document 

Title  or  Type  of  Document:  

Document  Date:  fefa/p^  


Number  of  Pages: 


Signer(s)  Other  Than  Named  Above: 


Capacity(ies)  Claimed  by  Signer(s) 


r/7  o.r J 


Sigper's  Name: 
[*T  Individual 

□  Corporate  Officer  — Title(s):  _ 

□  Partner  — □  Limited  □  General 

□  Attorney  in  Fact 

□  Trustee 

□  Guardian  or  Conservator 

_]  Other:  

Signer  Is  Representing^^ 


RIGHTTHUMBPRINT 
OF  SIGNER 


Top  oi  thumb  here 
i  - 


Signer's  Name:  

□  Individual 

□  Corporate  Officer  —  Title(s):  

□  Partner  —  □  Limited  C  General 

□  Attorney  in  Fact 

□  Trustee 

□  Guardian  or  Conservator 

□  Other:  

Signer  Is  Representing:  . 


RIGHTTHUMBPRINT 
OF  SIGNER 


Top  of  thumb  here 


©2007  National  Notary  Association*  9350  De  Soto  Ave,  PO  Box  2402  *Cnatsworth  CA  91313-2402'  www.NationalNotary.org  Item  #5907  Reorder:  Call  Toll-Free  1-800-876-6827 


HOLLIS  R  SULLIVAN  INC 
P  O  BOX  8289 


WICHITA  FALLS  TX  76308 

Submitter:  HOLLIS  R  SULLIVAN  INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$28.00 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CA 


