4. 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

iffi^dav  of   *3^M  ,  2008.  by  and  between  Leila  Peerwani,  ft  pg/SOA 

rt  Worth,  Texas  76120,Sis  Lessor,  and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES.  I.L.C.,  a"Texas  limited 


THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this 

whose  address  is  7913  Blenheim  Place,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76120,Sis  Lessor,  and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES.  I.L.C.,  a"Texas  limited  liability  company,  whose 
address  is  2100  Ross  Avenue.  Suite  1870.  LB-9.  Dallas.  Texas  75201,  as  Lessee  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove 
named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee 
the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

0.342  ACRES  OF  LAND,  MORE  OR  LESS,  BEING  ALL  OF  LOT  28,  BLOCK  S,  OUT  OF  THE  BENTLEY  VILLAGE  ADDITION,  SECTION  TWO,  AN 
ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF  FORT  WORTH,  TEXAS,  WITH  METES  AND  BOUNDS  BEING  MORE  PARTICULARLY  DESCRIBED  IN  THE  PLAT 
THEREOF  RECORDED  IN  VOLUME  388-1 10,  PAGE  51,  OF  THE  PLAT  RECORDS  OF  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS; 

in  the  County  of  larrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.342  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire 
by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon 
and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes 
helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also 
covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described 
leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental 
instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as 
long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled 
therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other 
liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor 
at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest 
field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and 
production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other 
substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production 
of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing 
price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its 
purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  cn  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture 
stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed 
to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment 
to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before 
each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if 
this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production. 
Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its 
successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or 
tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a 
stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository 
should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request, 
deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry 
hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause, 
including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease 
is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for 
drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after 
completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as 
long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or 
wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests, 
as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production, 
whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling 
authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not 
exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum 
acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or 
density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the 
terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1 00,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease 
separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the 
gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which 
includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except 
that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease 
and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in 


J. 

one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or 
density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by 
such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the 
effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the 
proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit 
and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for 
any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased 
premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth 
or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors 
and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no 
change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the 
documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in 
Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such 
shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the 
transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all 
or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the 
transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising 
with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or 
unitized  herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such 
operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of 
wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power 
stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such 
operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In 
exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to 
the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When 
requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet 
from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for 
damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and 
growing  crops  thereon,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased 
premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances 
covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by 
inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate 
because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not 
be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering 
to  purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein, 
with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in 
the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen 
days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the 
offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor 
has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period. 
In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or 
canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails 
to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual 
subsurface  well  bore  easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas 
wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive 
any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and 
discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall 
be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n 
royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee  may  suspend 
the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has 
been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for 
drilling  or  other  operations. 

17.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of 
TWO  (2)  YEARS  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration, 
terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 

18.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 
DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are 
market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor 
understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor 
recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or 
assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market 
conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may 
negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 


See  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto  and  by  reference  made  a  part  hereof. 


2 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory 
and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  (WHETI 


signature 

 I 

Printed  Name 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


STATE  OF  TEXA 
COUNTY  OF 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
by    LnU  3  ftcf*ft»;  


25  ^foSLk 


.day  of 
.(Lessor's  printert'name). 


LINDA  ANDERSON 
NOTARY  PUBLIC 

STATE  OP  TEXAS 

My  Comm.  Exp.  08-05-2010 


,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF  

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  ,  2008, 

by   (Lessor's  printed  name). 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
  of 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


.  day  of . 


2008,  by_ 


,  as 


on  behalf  of  said 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the  

Book  ,  Page  ,  of  the . 

By  


Clerk  (or  Deputy) 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


.  day  of . 


20 


■  at. 


records  of  this  office. 


o'clock 


_M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


3 


Exhibit  "A" 


I  Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated    'X*d*i         .  2008,  by  and  between 

t-CI  I CL  \J  *    tcjcybl  Cu+*  as  Lessor,  and  Dale  Property  Services,  L.L.C.,  A  Texas  limited  liability  company,  as  Lessee; 


WITNESSETH: 


1 9.  In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  terms  of  this  Exhibit  "A"  and  the  terms  of  the  printed  form  to  which  it  is  attached  (the 
"Form"),  the  terms  of  this  Exhibit  "A"  shall  control. 

20.  Minerals  Covered,  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  Lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas" 
means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore. 

2 1 .  Production  Cost.  Lessee  aggress  that  all  royalties  accruing  under  this  Lease  (including  those  paid  in  kind)  shall  be  without 
deduction,  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing, 
processing,  transporting  and  otherwise  making  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  hereunder  ready  for  use.  Lessee  agrees  to  compute  and 
pay  royalties  on  the  gross  value  received.  However,  any  such  costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  of  the  marketable  oil, 
gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  as  long  as  they  are  based  on 
Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such  enhancements.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than,  the  price  received 
by  Lessee  from  an  unaffiliated  third  party  purchaser.  Lessee  will  distribute  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well 
not  later  than  120  days  after  completion  of  the  well,  in  the  case  of  oil,  or  after  the  pipeline  connection,  in  the  case  of  a  gas  well. 
Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  to  Lessor  royalty  on  production  by  the  last  day  of  the  second  month  after  the  month  of  production. 

22.  Depth  Severance  Clause.  Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  Form  to  the  contrary,  following  the  expiration  of  the  primary 
term,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  depths  1 00  feet  below  the  base  of  the  Barnett  Shale  Formation. 

23.  Shut-in  Royalty.  While  there  is  a  well  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  capable  of  producing  gas  in  paying 
quantities  but  the  production  thereof  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended  for  lack  of  a  market,  available  pipeline,  or  because  of 
government  restrictions  or,  if  it  is  economically  inadvisable  for  both  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  to  sell  gas  for  a  time  as  evidenced  by  a 
written  agreement  signed  by  both  parties,  then,  and  in  any  such  event,  Lessee  may  pay  as  shut-in  royalty  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days 
after  the  date  on  which  (1)  production  from  any  such  well  is  shut-in,  shut-down  or  suspended;  or  (2)  this  Lease  is  no  longer  maintained 
by  compliance  with  one  of  the  other  preservation  provisions  hereof,  whichever  is  the  later  date,  and  thereafter  at  annual  intervals  the 
sum  of  Ten  Dollars  ($10.00)  per  net  mineral  acre  per  proration  unit  per  well.  If  such  payment  is  made  in  accordance  with  the  terms 
hereof,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  but  shall  continue  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  from  the  date  of  making  such  shut-in 
payment  (subject  to  the  exceptions  set  out  hereafter)  and  it  will  be  considered  that  gas  is  being  produced  from  the  leased  premises  in 
paying  quantities  within  the  meaning  of  each  pertinent  provision  of  this  Lease.  Provided,  however,  in  no  event  shall  shut-in  well 
payments  maintain  this  Lease  in  force  for  a  cumulative  period  of  three  (3)  years  past  the  primary  term  of  this  lease. 

24.  Indemnity.  Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify  and  hold  harmless  Lessor,  and  Lessor's  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns 
against  all  expenses,  claims,  demands,  liabilities,  and  causes  of  action  of  any  nature  for  injury  to  or  death  of  persons  and  loss  or 
damage  to  property,  including,  without  limitation,  reasonable  attorney  fees,  expert  fees,  and  court  costs,  caused  by  Lessee's  operations 
on  the  land  or  Lessee's  marketing  of  production  from  the  land  or  any  violation  of  any  environmental  requirements  by  Lessee.  As  used 
in  this  paragraph,  the  term  "Lessee"  includes  Lessee,  its  agents,  employees,  servants,  contractors,  and  any  other  person  acting  under  its 
direction  and  control,  and  its  independent  contractors. 

25.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  leased 
premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein,  except  title  granted  by,  through  and  under  Lessor.  All  other  warranties  that  might  arise 
by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded. 
By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient 
investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures  other  than  failure  of  title  by, 
through  or  under  Lessor.,, 

26.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of, 
cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited  to  drilling,  roads,  drilling  pads, 
pipelines,  production  equipment,  flowlines,  and  geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the  leased  premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet 
(600')  of  any  home  within  Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates.  This  also  includes  the  premises  of  the  Al-Hedayah  Islamic 
Center.  NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  WITHIN  THIS  LEASE  TO  THE  CONTRARY,  LESSEE  IS  PROHIBITED  AND 
SHALL  NOT  ESTABLISH  A  DRILL  PAD  SITE  ON  LAND  BORDERING  JOHN  T  WHITE  ROAD  AND  RANDOL  MILL  ROAD 
WHERE  IT  IS  WITHIN  SIX  HUNDRED  FEET  (600')  OF  BENTLEY  VILLAGE  AND/OR  WATERCHASE  ESTATES. 
NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  WITHIN  THIS  LEASE  TO  THE  CONTRARY,  LESSEE  IS  PROHIBITED  AND  SHALL 
NOT  ESTABLISH  A  COMPRESSOR  STATION  ON  LAND  BORDERING  JOHN  T  WHITE  ROAD  AND  RANDOL  MILL  ROAD 
WHERE  IT  IS  WITHIN  ONE  THOUSAND  FEET  (1000')  OF  BENTLEY  VILLAGE  AND/OR  WATERCHASE  ESTATES.  ANY 
SUCH  ACTION  BY  LESSEE  TO  UTILIZE  ANY  SUCH  JOHN  T  WHITE  ROAD  OR  RANDOL  MILL  ROAD  DRILL  SITE 
LOCATION  SHALL  IMMEDIATELY  SERVE  TO  VOID  THIS  LEASE  IN  ITS  ENTIRETY  WITH  NO  REFUND  OF  ANY 
BONUS  MONIES  BY  LESSOR  TO  LESSEE,  AND  LESSEE  UPON  LESSOR'S  REQUEST  MUST  EXECUTE  AND  RECORD  A 
RELEASE  OF  LEASE  WITHIN  THIRTY  (30)  DAYS  OF  ANY  SUCH  WRITTEN  REQUEST  BY  LESSOR  .  Lessee  shall  only 
develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location 
on  other  lands.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the  bore  of  a  well  drilled  for  oil  and  gas  purposes  may  cross  or  be  bottomed  under  the 
leased  premises  if  such  bore  is  at  least  1 000  feet  below  the  surface. 

27.  Dust.  Vibration.  Odors.  Lights,  and  Landscaping 

Lessee's  operations  on  any  drill  site  or  other  facility  utilized  for  the  development  of  the  Pooled  Unit  (Leased  Premises)  shall  be 
conducted  in  a  manner  as  to  comply  with  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance,  as  amended,  regarding  dust,  vibration,  or  noxious 
odors  on  the  Leased  Premises.  Lessee  shall  comply  with  all  requirements  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance,  as  amended, 
as  it  relates  to  any  lighting  on  any  drill  site  or  other  facility  utilized  for  the  development  of  the  Pooled  Unit.  All  drill  sites  or  other 
facilities  utilized  for  the  development  of  the  pooled  unit  will  comply  with  all  landscape  requirements  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth 
Drilling  Ordinance,  and  shall  include  a  forty  percent  (40%)  landscape  canopy,  if  requested  by  surface  owner. 


4 


28.  Noise.  No  drilling  or  other  operations  shall  produce  a  sound  level  (1)  greater  than  5dB  above  the  ambient  noise  level  when 
measured  at  any  location  within  Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates  (Including  the  premises  of  Al-Hedayah  Islamic  Center) 
between  the  hours  of  7:00  a.m.  to  7:00  p.m,  or  (2)  greater  than  3dB  above  the  ambient  noise  level  when  measured  at  any  location 
within  Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates  (Including  the  premises  of  Al-Hedayah  Islamic  Center)  between  the  hours  of  7:00  p.m. 
to  7:00  a.m.;  provided,  however,  that  and  adjustment  to  the  noise  standard  set  fort  below  in  ( 1)  and  (2)  may  be  permitted  in  accordance 
with  the  tolerance  table  from  City  of  Fort  Worth  Ordinance  set  forth  below.  Sound  level  measurements  shall  be  made  with  a  sound 
level  meter  conforming,  as  a  minimum,  to  the  requirements  of  the  American.  National  Standards  Institute.  Sound  level  measurements 
shall  be  taken  at  a  distance  of  between  4  and  6  feet  above  ground  level.  In  the  event  that  Lessor  obtains  a  sound  measurement 
exceeding  that  allowed  by  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  in  conformity  with  the  terms  of  this  Lease.  Lessee  shall 
have  48  hours,  exclusive  of  holiday  and  weekends,  from  the  receipt  of  such  notice  to  cure  or  cease  any  condition  or  operation  which 
results  in  a  sound  level  measurement  not  in  conformity  with  this  Lease.  Any  sound  level  measurement  taken  at  any  location  within 
Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates  (Including  the  premises  of  Al-Hedayah  Islamic  Center)  shall  be  deemed  to  affect  equally  all 
Lessors  within  Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates  (Including  the  premises  of  Al-Hedayah  Islamic  Center),  and  any  violation  of 
the  provisions  relating  to  sound  levels  contained  herein  shall  not  be  waived,  modified,  or  terminated  without  the  written  consent  and 
agreement  of  all  Lessors  within  Bentley  Village  and  Waterchase  Estates  (Including  the  Al-Hedayah  Islamic  Center). 

Adjustments  to  the  noise  standards  as  set  forth  above  in  Item  36,  Subsection  (B)  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance  may  be 
permitted  in  accordance  with  the  following: 


Permitted  Increase 
(dBA) 


Duration  of  Increase 


(minutes)* 


5.. 
10 
15 
20 


less  than  1 


15 
..5 
..1 


*Cumulative  minutes  during  any  one  hour 


5 


DALE  RESOURCES 

3000  ALTA  MESA  BLVD  STE  300 


FT  WORTH 


TX  76133 


Submitter;  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  RegistrAion:       07/31/2008  08:31  AM 
Instrument*:  D208297378 


nun  mi  mt!  mil  iiHi  mil  inn  inn  inn  mil  mi  mi 


D208297378 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


$32.00 


Printed  by:  MV 


