NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON, 
YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION 
FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC 
RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE 
NUMBER. 


PAID-UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  13th  day  of  July, 
2008,  between  Paul  Allan  Nus,  whose  mailing  address  is  1808  Granada  Rd.,  Fort 
Worth,  TX  76116,  as  Lessor,  and  Four  Sevens  Energy  Company,  L.L.C.,  whose  address 
is  201  Main  Street,  Suite  1455,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  as  Lessee. 

1 .  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants 
herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the 
following  described  land: 

the  real  property  described  on  Exhibit  "A" 
attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof 

(hereinafter  called  "leased  premises")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  (including  any  interests 
therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for 
the  purposes  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For 
purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  and  their  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all 
condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well 
bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as 
hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other 
like  minerals.  The  leased  premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements, 
highways  and  alleyways,  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute,  at  Lessee's  request, 
any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or 
accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount 
of  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  on  Exhibit  A  shall  be 
deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term,  This  Lease  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other 
provisions  contained  herein,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  primary  term  of  thirty-six  (36) 
months  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances 
covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  land 
pooled  therewith  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  hereof. 

Lessor,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to 
extend  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  for  one  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  from  the 
end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  to  Lessor,  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  a  bonus 
consideration  of  Twenty  thousand  dollars  ($20,000)  per  net  mineral  acre  as  calculated  to 
the  center  of  adjoining  streets,  alleys,  and  easements,  and  with  the  extension  to  otherwise 
be  on  the  other  terms  and  conditions  as  agreed  for  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder 
shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%) 
of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall 


have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then 
prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field, 
then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of 
similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized 
by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate  part  of 
ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee 
shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead 
market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such 
price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or 
nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder. 

It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  to 
the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by 
state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating, 
treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas 
and  other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form; 
however,  any  such  costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas 
or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of 
production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such  enhancements. 
However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than,  the 
price  received  by  Lessee. 

Accounting  and  payment  to  Lessor  of  royalties  from  the  production  of  oil  and 
gas  herein  provided  shall  commence  no  later  than  One  Hundred  Twenty  (120)  days 
after  the  date  of  first  production  as  pursuant  to  Section  91.402;  Subchapter  J, 
"Payment  for  Proceeds  of  Sale"  of  Texas  Natural  Resource  Code,  Oil  and  Gas. 
First  production  for  a  gas  well  shall  be  defined  as  the  date  of  sale  of  gas  and  for  an 
oil  well  the  date  oil  is  first  produced,  other  than  for  testing  purposes.  Thereafter 
unless  otherwise  specifically  provided  herein,  all  accountings  and  payments  of  royalties 
shall  be  made  on  or  before  the  last  day  of  the  second  calendar  month  following  the 
calendar  month  in  which  the  production  occurred.  Unless  otherwise  herein  expressly 
provided,  any  royalties  or  other  payments  provided  for  in  this  Lease  which  are 
suspended  or  not  paid  to  Lessor  within  the  time  period  specified  therefore  shall  accrue 
interest  at  the  rate  of  eighteen  percent  (18%)  per  annum  (but  in  no  event  at  a  rate 
greater  than  the  highest  rate  allowed  by  law),  from  the  due  date  until  paid.  Acceptance 
by  Lessor,  its  successors,  agents  or  assigns  of  royalties  which  are  past  due  shall  not 
act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  or  recover  any  and  all  interest  due 
thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof,  unless  the  written  acceptance  or  acknowledgment 
by  Lessor  to  Lessee  expressly  so  provides.  Any  tender  or  payment  to  Lessor  of  a  sum 
less  than  the  total  amount  due  to  Lessor  hereunder  which  is  made  or  intended  to  be 
made  as  an  offer  of  settlement  or  accord  by  or  on  behalf  of  Lessee,  its  agents,  successors  or 
assigns,  must  be  accompanied  by  a  notice  clearly  stating  such  intent  in  bold  print. 

4.  Shut-in  Royalty  Payments.  While  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  Lease  or  on  acreage 
pooled  therewith  capable  of  producing  gas  in  paying  quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being  sold,  Lessee 
shall  pay  or  tender  in  advance  an  annual  shut-in  royalty  of  $70.00  dollars  per  net  mineral  acre. 
Payment  with  respect  to  a  well  will  be  due  within  90  days  after  the  well  is  shut-in.  While  shut-in 
royalty  payments  are  timely  and  properly  paid,  this  Lease  will  be  held  as  a  producing  lease. 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after 
the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force 
by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  eighteen  (18)  consecutive  months  or  for  lesser 
periods  which  aggregate  three  (3)  years.  The  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay  shut-in  royalty  is  a 
condition  and  not  a  covenant.  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty  under  this  paragraph  may  be 
made  by  the  check  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto  on  or  before  the 
due  date.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor 
or  to  Lessor's  credit    at  lessor's  address  above    or  its  successors,  which  shall  be 


Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership 
of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft 
and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in 
a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known 
to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be 
succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment 
hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable 
instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Continuous  Operations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases 
from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is 
not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee 
commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or 
for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90 
days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any 
time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or 
restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more 
of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days, 
and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill 
under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by 
any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant 
to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  of  the  leased 
premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or 
zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  Lease,  either  before  or  after  the 
commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in 
order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling 
authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the 
entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be  included  in  any  unit  created 
pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an 
oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum 
acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed 
640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be 
formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well 
spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil 
well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the 
appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means 
a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based 
on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard 
lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal 
completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross 
completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal 
completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion 


interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling 
rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling,  which 
may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations 
anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated 
as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except 
that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the 
total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit 
bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not 
exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but 
not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or 
both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well 
spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such 
governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written 
declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the 
extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by 
virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable 
hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate 
the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of 
termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  Partial  Interests.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well 
or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the 
proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full 
mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8-  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned, 
devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and 
the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs, 
devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of 
Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of 
the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form 
of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or 
decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons 
are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties 
to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in 
proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in 
whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect 
to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with 
respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any 
interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net 
acreage  interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provision, 
Lessee  shall  assign  100%  of  its  interest  in  this  lease  as  of  the  Effective  Date  to 
Chesapeake  Exploration,  LLC,  an  Oklahoma  Limited  Liability  Company 
("Chesapeake"),  and  Chesapeake  will  be  bound  by  all  of  the  terms,  conditions  and 
obligations  of  this  Lease;  such  assignment  shall  take  place  within  one  (1)  year  of  the 
Effective  Date  of  this  Lease,  or  this  Lease  shall  automatically  terminate  in  its  entirety  and 
be  of  no  further  force  or  effect. 


Page 


4 


9.  Release  and  Vertical  Pugh  Clause.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time, 
deliver  to  Lessor  in  recordable  form  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a 
full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any 
depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided 
interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  hereby,  Lessee's  obligations  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in 
royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest 
retained  hereunder.  In  any  event,  upon  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its  successor 
ors  assigns  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  as  to  such  portion  or  portions  of 
this  Lease  which  have  been  terminated  under  the  terms  of  this  Lease.  Upon  expiration  of 
the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the 
primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last, 
this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  100  feet  (100')  below  the 
stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation  on  the  leased 
premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith. 

10.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease, 
Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by 
directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands. 
Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  to  not  use  residential  or  neighborhood  streets  or 
thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  or  any  lands  pooled  therewith  or 
otherwise.  Lessee  will  make  reasonable  efforts  to  screen  any  drill  sites  being  used  to 
develop  the  leased  premises  or  any  property  pooled  therewith  from  public  view  during 
drilling  operations  and  after  drilling  operations  have  been  completed. 

11.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling, 
completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into 
consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry, 
the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's 
drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban 
residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations, 
including  but  not  limited  to  compression  equipment,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to 
muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

12.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title 
to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein. 
All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to 
Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance 
of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate 
and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased 
premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

13.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this 
Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules, 
regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  including 
environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and 
production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the 
extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this 
Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production,  or  other  operations 
are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or 
easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion, 
insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market 
for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or 
by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate 
because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention 


or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any 
express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations 
are  so  prevented,  delay  or  interrupted. 

14.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the 
surface  estate,  along  with  their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors, 
subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors  and  assigns 
(collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of  action  of 
every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of 
damages  is  sought,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused 
by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to 
or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the 
drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  lessee's  breach  of 
any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act 
or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate, 
indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims, 
liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death), 
costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any 
theory  including  tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  including  reasonable  attorney  fees 
and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to  environmental  hazards  on  or  under 
the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's 
failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way 
related  to  Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of 
the  leased  premises;  and  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach 
of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its 
directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests, 
invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an 
interest  herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify  defend  and  hold  harmless  the 
Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided  above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of 
Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above. 

15.  Venue.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  be  in  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  where  all  obligations  are  performable. 

16.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be 
construed,  interpreted  and  enforced  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas 
without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions  herein  be 
determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall 
not  affect  the  enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall 
attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so  determined  to  be  invalid  to 
effectuate  the  purpose  and  to  confirm  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves 
determine  the  construction  of  this  Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more 
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of  which  shall  constitute 
one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the 
masculine,  feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context 
requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of  this  Lease. 

17.  Access  to  Information.  Lessee  shall  keep  complete  and  accurate  records  of  all  its 
operations  relating  to  or  affecting  the  leased  premises,  and  the  results  thereof,  including, 
but  not  limited  to:  all  land  surveys,  title  opinions  and  title  curative  material;  all  drilling, 
records;  all  production  records  showing  the  total  gross  production,  the  quantities  saved, 
sold  and  used,  the  disposition  thereof,  and  the  sales  prices  or  values  thereof;  all 
production  sales  contracts;  and  such  other  records  and  data  as  may  be  proper  for  the 
settlement  of  accounts  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  or  to  determine  the  respective  rights 
and  obligations  of  said  parties  hereunder.  During  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  for 
as  long  as  oil  and  gas  is  produced  therefrom,  and  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  thereafter, 


Page   ,  6 


Lessee  shall  make  all  of  such  records  and  data  available,  upon  written  request  and  limited 
to  an  annual  basis,  to  Lessor  for  examination  in  Lessee's  office  during  normal  business 
hours.  All  information  provided  by  Lessee  or  obtained  by  Lessor  according  to  this 
paragraph  that  Lessee  identifies  or  designates  as  proprietary  and  confidential  shall  be 
deemed  proprietary  and  confidential  and  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  for  as 
long  as  oil  and  gas  is  produced  therefrom,  and  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  thereafter,  all 
such  information  shall  remain  strictly  confidential  and  Lessor  shall  not  disclose  such 
information  to  any  third  party  (other  than  financial  advisers,  accountants  and  counsel  of 
Lessor)  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessee;  provided,  however,  the  foregoing 
obligations  of  Lessor  shall  not  apply  to  such  portions  of  such  information  which  (i)  are 
currently  possessed  by  or  available  to  Lessor,  (ii)  are  or  become  generally  available  to  the 
public  other  than  as  a  result  of  a  disclosure  by  Lessor,  (iii)  come  into  the  possession  of 
Lessor  from  a  source  which  is  not  prohibited  from  disclosing  such  information  to  Lessor 
by  a  legal,  contractual  or  fiduciary  obligation  to  Lessee,  or  any  other  person,  or  (iv)  is 
required  to  be  disclosed  in  order  to  enforce  the  terms  of  this  lease  or  Lessee's  obligations 
hereunder. 


DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas 
lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and 
may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good 
faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final 
and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  Lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor 
recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions. 
Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the 
negotiation  of  this  Lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms 
depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  Lease  will  seek  to  alter 
the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or 
may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date 
first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or 
not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


Signature 


Printed  Name 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  1^  day  of  J  u 
2008,  by  k£-hI     AlW     /J  ,  asLessor(s). 


RYAN  R  JOHNSON 
H^fci^'l   Notary  Public,  State  of  Texa? 
£\  My  Commission  Expires 

^S?,^  April  04,  2012 


(seal) 


A— 

Notary 


Printed  Name 


My  Commission  Expires 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of 

2008,  by  ,  as  Lessor(s). 


Notary 


Printed  Name 


(seal) 


My  Commission  Expires 


Exhibit  "A" 

Description  of  Property 

Attached  to  and  made  part  of  that  certain  Paid  Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated  the  13' 
day  of  Jnly,  2008,  between  Paul  Allan  Nus,  as  Lessor(s),  and  Four  Sevens  Energy 
Co.,  L.L.C.,  as  Lessee. 

.380  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  P.  Pate  Survey,  A- 1202,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  further  described  as  follows: 


Lot  13,  Block  34,  Ridgmar,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  According  to  the  plat  recorded  in  Volume  388-19,  Page  32,  Deed 

Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Also  commonly  known  as  1808  Granada  Rd.,  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  761 16. 


Puce 


9 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 
301  COMMERCE  ST,  STE  600 


FT  WORTH 


TX  76102 


Submitter:  CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration       08/04/2008 10:57  AM 
Instrument  A  D208302203 


illllllllillllllll  111 I'll 


D208302203 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


10PGS 


$48.00 


Printed  by:  DS 


