Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

ifSf!^92^.^  ^_  .  Official  Public  Records  2008  Aug  06  12:53  PM  ________  ,  _ 

f^Sc^Meedo^brok  y  D208307043 

Fee:  $  20.00 

NOTICE  OF  CONRDENTV4^^—  ^^_J  >ERSON        f^j^F^  SJR^  ^ 

OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATIgN^BIF^^HXJ3  FILED  IN  ™E  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER.  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

H'SY?n2EEMErrr  ma?e  Wsi^- da*V  ■  20-£_  between  Brian  Avers,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  5561  Macarthur  Dr..  Fort  Worth  TX  7611? 

and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is;  810  Houston  5\'  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee.  Ul""»wi".  IA 

WITNESSETH 

1  Lessor,  in  consideration  often  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and  agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained 
does  hereby  grant  lease  and  tet  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  for  the  purposes  and  with  the  exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil  gas' 
sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to  those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  tor  surface  or 
subsurface  disposal  of  sail  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures  on  said  land  necessary  or 
useful  in  Lessee  s  operations  in  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and  transporting  minerals  produced  from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto  The  land 
covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land."  is  located  in  the  County  of  Tarrant.  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

tu»-2I  it^^A?.^15  R0SEDALE  PARK  ADDITION,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  OF  FORT  WORTH,  TARRANT  COUNTY.  TEXAS.  ACCORDING  TO  THE  PLAT 
THEREOF  RECORDED  IN  VOLUME  388-B,  PAGE  258,  PLAT  RECORDS,  TARRANT  COUNTY.  TEXAS.  ^wr_iwu  .u    nc  rwi 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above  described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by 
Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b)  as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition  Lessor  agrees  to  execute 
any  supptemertal  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder 
^tartf  shall  be  deerned  to  certain  J6J8J  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  true  acreage  thereof ' 

Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shal  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of  5  years  from  the  date  hereof  herehafter  called  "primary 
term,  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  rinety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  As  royalty.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  def  ver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal  25%  part  of  all  oil  produced  and 
saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  optw  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  averao^ 

the  pipe  ine  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest  in  either  case,  to  bear  25%  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced 
from  said  land  {1 )  when  scM  by  Lessee,  25%  of  the  amourt  realized  by  Lessee,  ccc^uted  at  the  mou^ 

other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  wed,  of  25%  of  such  gas  and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  al  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land 
one-tenth  either  in  khd  or  value  at  the  wel  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1.00)  per  long  ton.  tf,  at  the  expiration  of  the 
primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  tjmes  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas 
and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  tend  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-In,  and  thereafter 
this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  ufalze,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being 
produced  from  said  weHs,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  dligence.  Lessee  shall  not  be  obigated  to  install  or  furnish  facJibes  other  than  wel  facilities  and  ortfnary  lease  faciMtes  of  flow  ines, 
separator,  and  tease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If.  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expkation  of  the  primary  term, 
all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  Lessee 
shal  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or 
before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph. 
Each  such  payment  or  tender  shaB  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  tease  if  the  wells  were 
producing,  and  may  be  deposited  In  such  bank  as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty. 
If  al  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are.  or  claim  to  be.  emitted  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may.  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein 
provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as 
Lessee  may  elect  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided 
for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in 
part,  liabtry  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases, 
as  to  any  or  al  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres,  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one 
or  more  horizons,  or  enisling  unrts  maybe  er^arged  as  to  any  cfie  of  more  Ixrizc  so  as  to  contain  not  more  trtan  640  surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the 
(olowing:  (1  )gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas.  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  Squids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas  wells 
by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the  time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under  any 
governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  driing  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  driled,  drillng.  or  already  driled.  any  such  unit  may  be 
established  or  enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  unit  by  executing  an  instrument 
identifying  such  unit  and  filing  ft  for  record  in  trie  pur*  office  in  which  this  tease  is  recorded.  Such  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the  date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if 
said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit  shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record,  Each  of  said  options  may  be 
exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  Is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the 
portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  tease  even  though  there  may  be 
mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for 
al  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each 
separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or 
unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  covered  by  this  tease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and 
the  production  so  aBocated  shall  be  considered  for  al  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire 
production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  tfis  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any 
term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of 
dlcfgas.Ttefarrattonofanyurrthe  under  this  lease  (including,  without 
limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  tease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  tease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  bythis 
tease.  Neither  shal  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  tends  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon 
for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  uniL  Al  any  time  while  this  tease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for 
record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect  if  at  that  time  there  Is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from  such  unit  Any  unit  formed  may  be 
amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the  original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the 
public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto 
shall  remain  in  force,  tf  this  tease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  Interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied 
or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent 
alocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or 
amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  tease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or 
horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  tease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  driflsite  location  or  access  road,  drillng,  testing,  completing, 
reworking,  recompteting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil.  gas.  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a 
mine,  production  of  ol,  gas.  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shal  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wels,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  al  operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the 
right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  drawand  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now 
on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the  covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations 
of  this  tease  shal  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns,  and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  drvision  in  the  ownership  of  said  tend,  royalties,  or 
other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected,  shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  location  and  drillng  of  wells  and  the 
measurement  of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no  change  or  division  In  the  ownership 
of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shal  be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  tease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after 
there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by 
either  originals  or  duly  certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court  records  and  proceedings, 
transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of  such  change  or  drvision.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by 
reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender  such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for 
above. 


l^r^f^!!*^  L_!!See1h3S  001  ^P6^  311  K»  obligations  hereunder,  bolh  express  and  implied. .  ,r  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in 
^tmspeds  Lessee  has  breached^  contract  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  said  notice  v^thin  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meetaZ  anypartof  »WbfSK 

SLS^^S  ^L^^^Jl^T  3"  *  °blt9atore  hereUrK*ef- Hthis  tease*  <*™^  for  any  cause,  it  shail  nevertheL  miS^SSSSSX 
^^^^^Zl^^lT  °fT°nSl^fB  "  ***  a,maWe     ^  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  lessXforrylSSj 

^Sf1        T.  l        as  praclicabte the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  wel,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any  part  of 

not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  fadifes  necessary  or  convenient  for  current  operations.  ««-w«8«5oreia.neaanasnai 

«*h  J,°^fl!f?y  Wan!^-nd  10  defend  fi,le  to  said  land  a9ainst  106  ^  a"  P*<sons  whomsoever.  Lessors  rights  and  interests  hereunder  shal  be  charged  primarily 
v^hany  "jortgages  taxes  or  other  Hens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  shal  have  the  r^ht  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  sarokSrZ 

S££5S£^  ^1 SiS?  ^  '  ^^IT  *•  *  sUphur' w  other  mirwrals  *  a"  or  any  part  of  sak)  land  than  .he  entire  andundrvided  KnpteSte 
K^S^   rt^^  2™°.'rt!resl         »»n     royalties  and  other  moneys  accning  fromanyr^astowKchthistease  covers  Jess  than  such  fuJNerest 

K^^S  Less?"  5ha"  66  ^  0Lrt  ^  ^ P"^64  This  tease  shal  be  fcndng  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  wrthout  regard  to  whether  rt  is  ex£ul5  by  S 

i        ±  l^^^^,^'  *  <*     PrirnarV  ,erm  te™*'  it  is  not  being  continued  in  fort*  by  reason  of  the  shuinn  well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and 

ev«»^  ^>?l^l<?in?^!j^a^n^  i\luSa{^  5  reason  of  (1 )  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation,  (whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  othercause  whether 
smtar  or  desmlar,  (except  financial}  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shal  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  ^o^^^^mZ 
more  days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred 

1 2.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  welKs)  and/or  wellborefs)  on  said 

land,  other  lhan  existing  water  wells,  and  for  a«  purposes  of  tris  lease  the  reentry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  weU  and/or  weflbore  shall  be  deemed  the  same  as  the  driing  of  a  new  well. 

1 3.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 

WhlT*!!!  to.l*!.*T' 3  We"  ^iCh  haS  be*n  dril,ed  and  LeSSee  i0tends  10  frac  sha"  66  deemed  a  we"  s****31*  of  Producing  in  paying  quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in 
shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this 
lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  locations)  for  drilling 
reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity  it  is  agreed 
that  any  such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease  provided  thai  such 
operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes 
of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions 
contained  in  this  lease,  except  as  expressly  slated. 

15.  Lessee  shall  not  conduct  any  surface  operations  upon  any  part  of  the  surface  of  the  lease  premises.  Lessee  shall  however  have  a  sub-surface  easement  to 
horizontally  dnll  under  Ihe  surface  of  the  lease  premises.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  conduct  seismic  operations 
but  only  by  virtue  of  the  vibroseis-method.  Lessee  shall  employ  such  measures  as  will  reduce  the  impact  upon,  improvements,  vegetation  and  game  habitat  on  the  lease 
premises.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all  damages  related  to  seismic  operations.  Other  lhan  seismic  operations,  by  execution  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  does  not  otherwise  obtain  the  right 
to  conduct  exploration,  excavation  or  drilling  operations  from  or  upon  the  surface  of  any  portion  of  the  lease  premises. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


LESSOR:  Brian  Avers 


Name: 


(Individually  and  in  all  Capacities  foi 

Tme:  Lessor 


LESSOR: 


Name; 


ibcd  Land) 


(Individually  and  in  all  Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land) 
Title: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF^^rtMftJr  .  * 

Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  and  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is 

subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  for  the  purpose  and  consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the  capacity 
therein  stated. 


Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this 


23, 


My  commission  expires: 


MICHElt  PECK  lINDSEY 

p^^f  |  Notary  PuWic,  Stale  of  Texas 
%?'f^\%£      Mv  Commission  Expires 
Dtcembei  M,  201 1 


HW|   ,29o8  ~ 

-   -    -Rotary  fublfc,  State  of  Texas 

Jolary's  printed  name  J 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF  

Before  me,  the  undersigned  authority,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  ,  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is 

subscribed  to  the  forgoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  and  for  the  purpose  and  consideration  therein  expressed  and  in  the  capacity 
therein  stated. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this  day  of  ,  200  . 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


My  commission  expires: 


Notary's  printed  name 


