HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


PAID-UP 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  NO.  (109122) 
GENERAL  LAND  OFFICE 
AUSTIN,  TEXAS 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  and  entered  into  by  and  between  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  of  the  State  of 
Texas,  whose  address  is  Stephen  F.  Austin  Building,  1700  North  Congress,  Austin,  Texas,  78701,  hereinafter  called 
"Lessor",  hereunto  authorized  by  the  School  Land  Board,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Chapters  32  and  52  of  the  Natural 
Resources  Code  (hereinafter  called  N.R.C.),  and  amendments  thereto,  and  all  applicable  rules  promulgated  by  the  School 
Land  Board  and  DDJET  Limited  LLP  ,  whose  address  is  1203  Lake  Street,  Suite  220,  Ft.  Worth,  TX  76102  hereinafter 
called  "Lessee". 

1.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  Nine  Thousand  Six  Hundred  00/100  ($9,600.00)  receipt  of  which  is 
hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and  agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease, 
and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  for  the  purposes  and  with  the  exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling, 
mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  and  all  other  hydrocarbons,  produced  from  the  land  covered 
hereby.  The  land  covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land"  is  located  in  the  County  of  Tarrant  State  of  Texas,  and  is 
described  as  follows: 

1.2  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  known  as,  situated  in  said  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  more  particularly 
described  in  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof  together  with  a  plat,  attached  hereto  as 
Exhibit  "B",  depicting  said  right-of-way  and  surrounding  area  for  purposes  of  illustration  only. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land  shall  be  deemed  to  contain 
1.2  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  true 
acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  PRIMARY  TERM:  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
two  years,  from  July  1  st,  2008  hereinafter  called  "primary  term",  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter 
defined,  are  conducted  upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  ROYALTIES:  As  royalty  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees: 

(a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  well,  the  equal  1/4  part 
of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the 
average  posted  market  price  of  such  1/4  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks, 
Lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  none  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil; 

(b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casing  head  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  lessee  1/4  of  the 
amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the 
manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  1/4  of  such  gas  and  casing  head 
gas. 


i 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


(c)  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or 
on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells 
are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for 
so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred 

(d)  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals 
capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or 
furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not 
be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee. 

(e)  If  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of 
ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of 
said  ninety  day  period,  lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  of  lessee,  as  royalty,  the  sum  of  $  5,000.00.  Lessee  shall 
make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if 
upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each 
such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties 
which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  lessee's  right  to  release  as 
provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder 
shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

(f)  All  royalties  not  taken  in  kind  shall  be  paid  to  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  at  Austin,  Texas,  in 
the  following  manner: 

Royalty  on  oil  is  due  and  must  be  received  in  the  General  Land  Office  on  or  before  the  5th  day  of  the  second  month 
succeeding  the  month  of  production,  and  royalty  on  gas  is  due  and  must  be  received  in  the  General  Land  Office  on  or  before 
the  1 5th  day  of  the  second  month  succeeding  the  month  of  production,  accompanied  by  the  affidavit  of  the  owner,  manager, 
or  other  authorized  agent,  completed  in  the  form  and  manner  prescribed  by  the  General  Land  Office  and  showing  the  gross 
amount  and  disposition  of  all  oil  and  gas  produced  and  the  market  value  of  the  oil  and  gas,  together  with  a  copy  of  all 
documents,  records  or  reports  confirming  the  gross  production,  disposition  and  market  value  including  gas  meter 
readings,  pipeline  receipts,  gas  line  receipts  and  other  checks  or  memoranda  of  amount  produced  and  put  into  pipelines, 
tanks,  or  pools  and  gas  lines  or  gas  storage,  and  any  other  reports  or  records  which  the  General  Land  Office  may  require 
to  verify  the  gross  production,  disposition  and  market  value.  In  all  cases  the  authority  of  a  manager  or  agent  to  act  for  the 
Lessee  herein  must  be  filed  in  the  General  Land  Office.  Each  royalty  payment  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  check  stub, 
schedule,  summary  or  other  remittance  advice  showing  by  the  assigned  General  Land  Office  lease  number  the  amount  of 
royalty  being  paid  on  each  lease.  If  Lessee  pays  his  royalty  on  or  before  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  royalty  payment  was 
due,  the  Lessee  owes  a  penalty  of  5%  on  the  royalty  or  $25.00,  whichever  is  greater.  A  royalty  payment  which  is  over  thirty 
(30)  days  late  shall  accrue  a  penalty  of  10%  of  the  royalty  due  or  $25.00,  whichever  is  greater.  In  addition  to  a  penalty, 
royalties  shall  accrue  interest  at  a  rate  of  12%  per  year;  such  interest  will  begin  accruing  when  the  royalty  is  sixty  (60)  days 
overdue.  Affidavits  and  supporting  documents  which  are  not  filed  when  due  shall  incur  a  penalty  in  an  amount  set  by  the 
General  Land  Office  administrative  rule  which  is  effective  on  the  date  when  the  affidavits  or  supporting  documents  were 
due.  The  Lessee  shall  bear  all  responsibility  for  paying  or  causing  royalties  to  be  paid  as  prescribed  by  the  due  date 
provided  herein.  Payment  of  the  delinquency  penalty  shall  in  no  way  operate  to  prohibit  the  State's  right  of  forfeiture  as 
provided  by  law  nor  act  to  postpone  the  date  on  which  royalties  were  originally  due.  The  above  penalty  provisions  shall  not 
apply  in  cases  of  title  dispute  as  to  the  State's  portion  of  the  royalty  or  to  that  portion  of  the  royalty  in  dispute  as  to  fair 
market  value.  The  State  shall  have  first  lien  upon  all  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  to  secure 
the  payment  of  all  unpaid  royalty  and  other  sums  of  money  that  may  become  due  to  the  State  hereunder. 


4.        POOLING:  (a)  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this 
lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or 
horizons.  Units  pooled  for  oil  hereunder  shall  not  exceed  160  acres  each  in  area,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall 
not  exceed  in  area  640  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  often  percent  (10%)  thereof,  unless  oil  or  gas  units  of  a  greater  size 
are  allowed  under  or  prescribed  by  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid 
and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within 


2 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


the  unit,  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be 
considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  as  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease. 
There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit 
if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  the  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit, 
after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such 
separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production 
so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any 
other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated  in  the 
same  manner  as  though  produced  there  from  under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of 
any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties 
from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit 
hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any 
interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease) 
between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this 
lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not 
so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are 
released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established 
hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  no 
operations  are  being  conducted  thereon  for  unitized  minerals.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once 
established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  for  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease 
now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts 
is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall 
nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as 
herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing, 
now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

(b)  Neither  unit  production  of  oil  or  gas,  nor  unit  operations,  nor  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  unit  gas  well, 
shall  serve  to  hold  the  lease  in  force  as  to  any  area  outside  the  unit,  regardless  of  whether  the  production,  maintenance  of  a 
shut-in  gas  well,  or  operations  are  actually  located  on  the  State  tract  or  not. 

(c)  Lessee  agrees  to  file  with  the  General  Land  Office  a  copy  of  any  unit  designation,  which  this  lease  is 
included  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  such  designation. 

5.  RELEASE:  Lessee  may  relinquish  the  rights  granted  hereunder  to  the  State  at  any  time  by  recording  the 
relinquishment  in  the  county  where  this  area  is  situated  and  filing  the  recorded  relinquishment  or  certified  copy  of, same  in  the 
General  Land  Office  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  its  execution  accompanied  by  the  prescribed  filing  fee.  Such 
relinquishment  will  not  have  the  effect  of  releasing  Lessee  from  any  liability  theretofore  accrued  in  favor  of  the  State. 

6.  REWORK:  If  at  any  time  or  times  during  the  primary  term  operations  are  conducted  on  said  land  and  if  all 
operations  are  discontinued,  this  lease  shall  thereafter  terminate  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  on  the  ninetieth 
day  after  discontinuance  of  all  operations,  whichever  is  the  later  date,  unless  on  such  later  date  either  (1)  Lessee  is 
conducting  operations  or  (2)  the  shut-in  well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  or  the  provisions  of  paragraph  9  are 
applicable.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and  any  of  the  following:  drilling, 
testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an 
endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas,  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  MINERAL  USE:  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder. 

8.  NOTICE:  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both 
express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this 
contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all 

3 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action 
by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days  after 
service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee,  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all 
or  any  of  the  alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its 
obligations  hereunder.   If  this  lease  is  canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1) 
sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations  to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit 
under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  than  forty  acres),  such  acreage  to  be  designated  by 
Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations. 

9.  FORCE  MAJEURE:  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not 
being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in  well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting 
operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation,  (whether  or  not  subsequently  determined 
to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of 
Lessee,  the  primary  term  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days 
following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had 
not  occurred. 

10.  LESSER  ESTATE  CLAUSE:  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil  or  gas  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land 
than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  lessors  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein, 
then  the  royalties,  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall 
be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee 
simple  estate  therein. 

11.  ASSIGNMENTS:  This  lease  may  be  transferred  at  any  time.  All  transfers  must  reference  the  lease  by  file 
number  and  must  be  recorded  in  the  county  where  the  land  covered  hereby  is  located,  and  the  recorded  transfer  or  a  copy 
certified  to  by  the  County  Clerk  of  the  county  where  the  transfer  is  recorded  must  be  filed  in  the  General  Land  Office 
within  ninety  (90)  days  of  the  execution  date,  as  provided  by  N.R.C.  Section  52.026,  accompanied  by  the  prescribed 
filing  fee.   Every  transferee  shall  succeed  to  all  rights  and  be  subject  to  all  obligations,  liabilities,  and  penalties  owed  to 
the  State  by  the  original  Lessee  or  any  prior  transferee  of  the  lease,  including  any  liabilities  to  the  State  for  unpaid 
royalties. 

12.  WELL  INFORMATION:  Lessee  agrees  to  forthwith  furnish  Lessor,  upon  written  request,  with  copies  of  all 
drilling  logs,  electrical  logs,  cores  and  core  records  and  other  information  pertaining  to  all  wells  drilled  by  lessee  either  on 
the  leased  premises  or  acreage  pooled  therewith,  when  requested  to  do  so.  Said  information  shall  remain  confidential  as 
required  by  statute. 

13.  SURFACE:  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  it  is  agreed  that  Lessee  will  not  conduct  any 
exploration  or  drilling  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  use  the  surface  in  the  exercise  of  any  rights  herein 
granted.  Any  development  of  said  land  shall  be  by  means  of  a  directional  well  located  off  the  leased  premises,  or  by 
pooling  of  said  land  with  other  land,  lease  or  leases  as  hereinabove  provided. 

14.  COMPENSATORY  ROYALTY:  Lessee  shall  pay  a  compensatory  royalty  if  this  lease  is  not  being  held  by 
production  on  the  leased  premises,  by  production  from  a  pooled  unit,  or  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  in  accordance  with 
the  terms  of  this  lease,  and  if  oil  or  gas  is  sold  or  delivered  in  paying  quantities  from  a  well  located  within  2,500  feet  of  the 
leased  premises  and  completed  in  a  producible  reservoir  underlying  the  area  leased  hereunder  or  in  any  case  in  which 
drainage  is  occurring.  Such  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid  at  the  royalty  rate  provided  in  this  lease  based  on  the  value 
of  production  from  the  well  as  provided  in  the  lease  on  which  such  well  is  located.  The  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid 
in  the  same  proportion  that  the  acreage  of  this  lease  has  to  the  acreage  of  the  proration  unit  surrounding  the  draining  well 
plus  the  acreage  of  this  lease.  The  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid  monthly  to  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land 
Office  on  or  before  the  last  day  of  the  month  after  the  month  in  which  the  oil  or  gas  is  sold  and  delivered  from  the  well 


4 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


causing  the  drainage  or  from  the  well  located  within  2500  feet  of  the  leased  premises  and  completed  in  a  producible 
reservoir  under  this  lease.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  compensatory  royalty  payable  hereunder  shall 
be  no  less  than  an  amount  equal  to  double  the  shut-in  royalty  and  shall  maintain  this  lease  in  effect  for  so  long  as  such 
payments  are  made  as  provided  herein. 


15,  FORFEITURE:  If  Lessee  shall  fail  or  refuse  to  make  payment  of  any  sum  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  it 
becomes  due,  or  if  Lessee  or  an  authorized  agent  should  knowingly  make  any  false  return  or  false  report  concerning 
production  or  drilling,  or  if  Lessee  shall  fail  or  refuse  to  drill  any  offset  well  or  wells  in  good  faith  as  required  by  law  and  the 
rules  and  regulations  adopted  by  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office,  or  if  Lessee  should  fail  to  file  reports  in  the 
manner  required  by  law  or  fail  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  promulgated  by  the  General  Land  Office,  or  refuse  the 
proper  authority  access  to  the  records  pertaining  to  operations,  or  if  Lessee  or  an  authorized  agent  should  knowingly  fail  or 
refuse  to  give  correct  information  to  the  proper  authority,  or  knowingly  fail  or  refuse  to  furnish  the  General  Land  Office  a 
correct  log  of  any  well,  or  if  this  lease  is  pooled  or  assigned  and  the  unit  designation  or  assignment  is  not  filed  in  the  General 
Land  Office  as  required  by  law,  the  rights  acquired  under  this  lease  shall  be  subject  to  forfeiture  by  the  Commissioner,  and 
he  shall  forfeit  same  when  sufficiently  informed  of  the  facts  which  authorize  a  forfeiture,  and  when  forfeited  the  area  shall 
again  be  subject  to  lease.  However,  nothing  herein  shall  be  construed  as  waiving  the  automatic  termination  of  this  lease 


by  operations  of  law  or  by  reason  of  any  special  limitation  arisfi 
and  all  rights  there  under  reinstated  before  the  right 
Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  of  future  comp# 
rules  and  regulations  that  may  be  adopted  refative  heretqjfc 

IN  TESTIMONY  WHEREOF,  witness  the  signature  " ' V 
under  the  seal  of  the  Genera!  Land  Office.       t      !  I 


Approved: 

ml:  p*- 

DC:  C~tA> 


under.  Forfeitures  may  be  set  aside  and  this  lease 
/^tgi^SMie.-'Upon  satisfactory  evidence  to  the 
siphs  of  the  law  and  of  this  lease  and  the 


Land  Office  of  the  State  of  Texas 


5 


FIELD  NOTES 
Proposed  Public  School  Land  Lease  Tract  1 
Davis  Boulevard  ROW 
(FN!  Highway  No.  1938) 
Stephen  Richardson  Survey 
Abstract  No.  1266 
City  of  North  Richland  Hills 
Tarrant  County 
Texas 

All  that  certain  tract  or  parcel  of  land  lying  and  being  situated  in  the  Stephen  Richardson  Survey, 
Abstract  No.  1266,  City  of  North  Richland  Hills,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  being  a  portion  of  that 
certain  tract  of  land  conveyed  to  Tarrant  County,  according  to  the  deed  filed  of  record  in  Volume 
3021,  Page  551,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  together  with  a  portion  of  the  adjoining 
prescriptive  right-of-way  of  Davis  Boulevard  (FM  Highway  No.  1938),  and  being  more  particularly 
described  by  metes  and  bounds  as  follows: 

BEGINNING  at  a  point  in  the  northwest  line  of  Davis  Boulevard  (FM  Highway  No.  1938),  the  most 
southerly  corner  of  said  Tarrant  County  tract,  and  being  in  the  southeast  line  of  Lot  1 , 
Block  1,  The  Villas  on  Bear  Creek,  according  to  the  plat  filed  of  record  in  Cabinet  A, 
Slide  5059,  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for  the  most  westerly  corner  of 
this  tract,  from  which  a  1/2"  iron  rod  found  bears  South  40  degrees  27  minutes  16 
seconds  East,  a  distance  of  0.46  feet,  and  from  which  an  V  in  concrete  found  bears 
South  42  degrees  27  minutes  38  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  100.25  feet,  said 
beginning  point  being  the  beginning  of  a  curve  to  the  right; 

THENCE  along  the  northwest  line  of  said  Tarrant  County  tract,  partially  along  the  northwest 
line  of  said  Davis  Boulevard,  along  the  southeast  line  of  said  Lot  1 ,  Block  1 ,  at  an  arc 
distance  of  167.45  feet  pass  a  corner  of  said  Lot  1,  Block  1,  being  the  most  southerly 
corner  of  that  certain  tract  of  land  conveyed  to  the  State  of  Texas,  according  to  the 
deed  filed  of  record  in  Volume  1 1507,  Page  2219,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  continuing  along  the  southeast  line  of  said  State  of  Texas  tract,  at  an  arc 
distance  of  384.68  feet  pass  the  most  easterly  corner  of  said  State  of  Texas  tract, 
being  the  southeast  comer  of  that  certain  tract  of  land  conveyed  to  First  Texas 
Council  of  Camp  Fire,  Inc.,  according  to  the  deed  filed  of  record  in  Volume  9097, 
Page  1039,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  continuing  along  the  southeast 
line  of  said  First  Texas  Council  of  Camp  Fire,  Inc.  tract,  and  along  said  curve  whose 
radius  is  1969.86  feet,  and  whose  central  angle  is  11  degrees  54  minutes  48 
seconds,  and  whose  long  chord  bears  North  38  degrees  59  minutes  53  seconds 
East,  a  distance  of  408.85  feet,  in  all  an  arc  distance  of  409.59  feet  to  a  point  for  a 
corner  of  this  tract,  from  which  a  concrete  monument  found  at  the  northeast  corner  of 
said  Lot  1,  Block  1  bears  South  69  degrees  18  minutes  26  seconds  West,  a  distance 
of  30.69  feet; 

THENCE  North  44  degrees  57  minutes  16  seconds  East,  along  the  northwest  line  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard,  and  along  the  northwest  line  of  said  Tarrant  County  tract,  and 
along  the  southeast  line  of  said  First  Texas  Council  of  Camp  Fire,  Inc.  tract,  at  a 
distance  of  333.95  feet  pass  the  northeast  corner  of  said  First  Texas  Council  of 
Camp  Fire,  Inc.  tract,  and  continuing  along  the  southeast  line  of  the  remainder  of  that 


SHEET  2  OF  5 


THENCE 
THENCE 

THENCE 

» 


certain  tract  of  land  conveyed  to  W.V.  McCiure  et  ux.,  according  to  the  deed  filed  of 
record  in  Volume  4026,  Page  344,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  at  a 
distance  of  385.94  feet  pass  the  southeast  corner  of  that  certain  tract  of  land 
conveyed  to  B.H.  &  L.  Joint  Venture,  according  to  the  deed  filed  of  record  in  Volume 
7636,  Page  40,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  continuing  along  the 
southeast  line  of  said  B.H.  &  L.  Joint  Venture  tract,  in  all  a  distance  of  513.88  feet  to 
a  point  for  the  most  northerly  coiner  of  this  tract,  from  which  a  5/8"  iron  rod  found 
bears  South  59  degrees  45  minutes  25  seconds  East,  a  distance  of  0.60  feet  and  a 
Vz  iron  rod  found  bears  North  44  degrees  57  minutes  16  seconds  East,  a  distance  of 
200.08  feet; 

South  42  degrees  47  minutes  41  seconds  East,  a  distance  of  56.15  feet  to  a  point  in 
said  Davis  Boulevard,  for  the  most  easterly  corner  of  this  tract; 

South  44  degrees  05  minutes  57  seconds  West,  with  the  general  alignment  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard,  a  distance  of  918.04  feet  to  a  point  for  the  most  southerly  corner  of 
this  tract; 

North  45  degrees  51  minutes  1 1  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  27.39  feet  to  the  Place 
of  Beginning,  and  containing  1.20  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  in  accordance  with 
the  plat  of  even  date  herewith,  attached  hereto,  and  made  a  part  hereof. 


SHEET  3  OF  5 


FIELD  NOTES 
Proposed  Public  School  Fund  Lease  Tract  2 
Davis  Boulevard  ROW 
(FM  Highway  No.  1938) 
Stephen  Richardson  Survey 
Abstract  No.  1266 
Cit  of  North  Richland  Hills 
Tarrant  County 
Texas 

All  that  certain  tract  or  parcel  of  land  lying  and  being  situated  in  the  Stephen  Richardson  Survey, 
Abstract  No.  1266,  City  of  North  Richland  Hills,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  a  portion  of  that 
certain  tract  of  land  conveyed  to  Tarrant  County,  according  to  the  Condemnation  Suit  No.  50609, 
filed  of  record  in  Docket  168,  Page  55,  Tarrant  County  Court  at  Law  Records,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  together  with  a  portion  of  the  adjoining  prescriptive  right-of-way  of  Davis  Boulevard  (FM 
Highway  No.  1938),  and  being  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  as  follows: 

BEGINNING  at  a  point  in  the  southeast  line  of  Davis  Boulevard  (FM  Highway  No.  1938),  being  a 
corner  of  said  Tarrant  County  tract,  and  being  the  north  corner  of  Lot  1 ,  Block  1 , 
Northfield  Park,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  North  Richland  Hills,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  according  to  the  plat  filed  of  record  in  Volume  388-200,  Page  87,  Plat 
Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for  the  most  easterly  corner  of  this  tract,  from 
which  a  1/2"  iron  rod  found  at  the  southwest  corner  of  that  certain  tract  of  land 
conveyed  to  Clyde  W.  Boiling,  et  ux.,  according  to  the  deed  filed  of  record  in  Volume 
4042,  Page  84,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  bears  South  00  degrees  05 
minutes  20  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  746.97  feet; 

South  44  degrees  57  minutes  16  seconds  West,  along  the  southeast  line  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard  and  along  the  southeast  line  of  said  Tarrant  County  tract,  and  along 
the  northwest  line  of  said  Lot  1 ,  Block  1 ,  Northfield  Park,  a  distance  of  509. 1 7  feet  to 
a  point  at  the  beginning  of  a  curve  to  the  left; 

along  the  southeast  line  of  said  Davis  Boulevard  and  along  the  southeast  line  of  said 
Tarrant  County  tract,  along  the  northwest  line  of  said  Lot  1 ,  Block  1 ,  Northfield  Park, 
and  along  said  curve  whose  radius  is  1849.86  feet,  and  whose  central  angle  is  14 
degrees  39  minutes  10  seconds,  and  whose  long  chord  bears  South  37  degrees  37 
minutes  42  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  471 .79  feet,  an  arc  distance  of  473.08  feet, 
to  a  point  for  the  most  southerly  corner  of  this  tract,  from  which  a  W  iron  rod  found 
bears  South  29  degrees  14  minutes  57  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  88.05  feet; 

North  63  degrees  24  minutes  22  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  108.30  feet  to  a  point 
in  said  Davis  Boulevard  for  the  most  westerly  corner  of  this  tract; 

North  39  degrees  26  minutes  33  seconds  East,  with  the  general  alignment  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard,  a  distance  of  71.11  feet  to  a  point  a  corner  of  this  tract; 

North  43  degrees  16  minutes  37  seconds  East,  with  the  general  alignment  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard,  a  distance  of  25.03  feet  to  a  point  for  a  corner  of  this  tract; 


THENCE 
THENCE 

THENCE 
THENCE 
THENCE 


SHEET  4  OF  5 


THENCE  North  44  degrees  05  minutes  57  seconds  East,  with  the  general  alignment  of  said 
Davis  Boulevard,  a  distance  of  918.04  feet  to  a  point  for  the  most  northerly  corner  of 
this  tract; 

THENCE  South  42  degrees  47  minutes  41  seconds  East,  a  distance  of  63.94  feet  to  the  Place 
of  Beginning,  and  containing  152  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  in  accordance  with 
the  plat  of  even  date  herewith,  attached  hereto,  and  made  a  part  hereof. 


SHEET  5  OF  5 


R  turn  to: 
COMR  NY 


1  AGtuat  besnngs  shown  ivmanaiaconeialati 
to  the  Texas  CoonSnab  System,  North 
Central  Zola,  basedupon  Bte  nta* 
American  Oalum  of  19S3 

2  Fofad8ScripftM£tf»(Fac(5sea(leI*wi( 


"  A  ter  Recording 
,  HARDING 

13465  Midway  r0>ad 
"dkllas,  texas 

*  p|OME(214)361 
FAX  (214)  750-7331 


Davis  Blvd.  (FM  1938)  ROW  Exhibit 

Showing  Proposed  Public  School  Fund  Lease  Tracts 
Located  in  the 
STEPHEN  RICHARDSON  SURVEY,  A-1 266 

CITY  OF  NORTH  RICHLAND  HILLS 
TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS 


LEGEND: 

D.R.T.C.T. 

-  Dead  Recaids  Dl 

Tarranl  County,  Texas 

IRF 

-Iran  Hud  Found 

(XXX) 

-  tteurt  Dala 

scale-  r=ioif 


DRAWN:  DRJ 


DATE:  May  2008 


JOB  NO.  71002 


Sheet  1of5 


METROPLEX  BARNETT  SHALE  LLC 


'ydn>Tech 


Surveyor!  Engineer*.  Plonnera.  Hydrologltti 

6825  Manhattan  Bouiavard  SuHa  100 

Fort  Worth,  Texas  76120 
pti  (017)451-9000  fai  (817)451-9003 

web:  |ea-hydro,oom     email:  lBa-hydro@|Jaa4iyOlD.coni 


,  STE.  400 
5244 
4292 


HARDING  COMPANY 
13465  MIDWAY  RD  #400 


DALLAS 


TX  75244 


Submitter:  PETROCASA  ENERGY-INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:  (    08/07/2008  08:19  AM 
Instrument  #:   \  D2083079S8 


M  IN  I  I!  Ill  i  l  l!  I  i 


D208307998 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


$52.00 


Printed  by:  CN 


