NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

3  year  +  2  year  option  Lease  for  One  LOT  

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  ^  ^   day  of  -*~''|  ,  2008,  by  and  between 

NPOT  Partners  f.  LP  

as  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is 

5712  Collevville  Blvd.  Ste  210.  Collcwillc  TX  76034  _____  _____  ____ 

and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES  L.L.C.  2100  Ross  Ave  Suite  1870  Dallas.  Texas.  75201.  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party 
hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land, 
hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

All  of  Lot  2,  in  Block  2,  and  the  East  18.5'  of  Lot  L  of  the  MARTINDALE  ADDITION,  an  addition  to  the  city  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  more 
particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  in  that  certain  Plat  Map  recorded  in  Volume  204,  Page  48  of  the  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County.  Texas. 
(2604  La  Salle) 

in  the  county  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  .185  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances 
produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well 
as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by 
Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's 
request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in 
royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or 
gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  arc  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated 
at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same 
field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  aprcvailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b) 
for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a 
proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas 
or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality 
in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase 
contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time 
thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  otheT  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or 
such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royally  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  ot  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while 
the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being 
sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following 
cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this 
lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be 
Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft 
and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  lo  the  depository  ot  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known 
to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  Tf  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder. 
Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant 
to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in 
force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or 
at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain 
or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days, 
and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises 
or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on 
other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or 
zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order 
to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling 
for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not 
exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well 
spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well" 
and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an 
initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour 
production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means 
an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well 
in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall 
file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all 
or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's 
royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the 
unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee 
shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in 
order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage 
determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective 
date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  sucli  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which 
royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of 
interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of 
the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and 
obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have 


1 


the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been 
furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the 
notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or 
tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  ot  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each 
owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of 
the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred,  If  Lessee 
transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between 
Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  lime  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee 
releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance 
with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  f0r,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably 
necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells, 
disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport 
production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or 
ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased 
premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter 
has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below 
ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder, 
without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  otiier  lands,  and  to 
commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased 
premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water, 
electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a 
satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease 
shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable 
for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

1 2.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor 
a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of 
this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other 
pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or 
part  thereof  ot  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written 
notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final 
judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said 
judicial  determination  ttj  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore  easement 
under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other 
tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such 
subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  tfie  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

1 5.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or 
liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  parly  to  whom  payment  is  made, 
and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any 
claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory 
evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

1 6.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other  operations. 

17.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  Two  (2)  from  the  end  of  the 
primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and  may 
vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and 
that  lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor 
acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on 
future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate 
with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  dale  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs, 
devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 

NPOT  Partners  I.  LP 

LESSOR  (WHETHEROjVE  OR  MORE)  . 

Signature;  ^Ck^, — ■ — . —    ^^^^S  Signature:  


Printed  Name:  Shawn  Coker,  Manager.  NPOT  Partners  Printed  Name: 

I,  LP 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  7-  ^  day  of 
Limited  Partnership,  on  behalf  of  said  Limited  Partnership. 


2008,  by  Shawn  Coker,  Manager  of  NPOT  Partners  I,  LP  a  Texas 


MA.TTHEW  F.  GARRETT 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
October  23,  2011 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed):  //-.V-C^  F\  C,x„ 
Notary's  commission  expires:  /uA^/ 


2 


Addendum 


Attached  to  and  made  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated  the       3      day  of  J-'ii  ,  2008  by  and 

between  NPOT  Partners  I,  LP  as  Lessor(s),  and  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC,  as  Lessee,  to  wit:  I 

If  any  of  the  following  provisions  conflict  with  or  are  inconsistent  with  any  of  the  printed  provisions  or  terms  of  this  lease, 
the  following  provisions  shall  control. 

The  following  is  agreed  upon  by  Lessor  and  Lessee: 

1.  This  Lease  does  not  grant  to  Lessee  the  right  or  privilege  to  enter  or  operate  upon  the  leased  premises  for  any  reason,  or  at  any 
time  without  prior  written  consent  of  [essor(s). 


2,  Said  Lease  only  grants  to  the  Lessee  rights  in  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquefied  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  those  non- 
hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  with  oil  and/or  gas.  All  other  minerals  in,  on,  or  under  the  lands  are  expressly 
excepted  from  this  Lease  and  reserved  by  Lessor. 


3.  Said  paid  up  Lease  amount  per  acre  shall  be  $1 5,000.00. 


4.  Said  primary  term  shall  be  for  period  of  Three  (3)  years. 


5.  Said  Royalties  shall  be  25%. 


6.  Said  Royalties  shall  be  calculated  based  on  a  pooled  unit  size  not  to  exceed  (40)  acres  for  oil  and  (320)  acres  for  gas. 


7.    No  division  order  will  operate  to  amend  any  provision  of  said  Lease. 


8.  Said  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  $50.00  and  said  payment  due  period  shall  be  (90)  days. 


9.  The  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  will  at  no  time  extend  this  lease  for  a  period  of  longer  than  two  consecutive  years  or  four  (4)  years 
in  the  aggregate. 


1 0.  For  purposes  of  this  lease,  an  "Affiliate  of  Lessee"  is  any  corporation  firm  or  other  entity  in  which 
Lessee,  or  any  parent  company,  subsidiary  or  affiliate  of  Lessee  owns  an  interest  of  more  than  ten 
Percent  (1 0%),  whether  by  stock  ownership  or  otherwise  or  over  which  Lessee  or  any  parent 
company  or  Affiliate  of  Lessee  exercises  any  degree  of  control,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  ownership, 
interlocking  directorate,  or  in  any  other  manner;  and  any  corporation,  firm  or  other  entity  which  owns 
any  interest  in  Lessee,  whether  by  stock  ownership  or  otherwise,  or  which  exercises  any  degree  of 
control,  directly  or  indirectly,  over  Lessee,  by  stock  ownership,  interlocking  directorate,  or  in  any  other 
manner. 


11.  All  royalties  that  may  become  due  hereunder  shall  commence  to  be  paid  on  the  first  well  completed  on  the  leased  premises 
within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  following  the  month  during  which  any  well  is  completed  and  commences  production 
Thereafter,  all  royalties  on  oil  shall  he  paid  to  Lessor  on  or  before  the  last  day  of  the  month  following  the  month  of  production  and  all 
royalties  on  gas  shall  be  paid  to  Lessor  on  or  before  the  last  day  of  the  second  month  following  the  month  of  production.  Royalties 
not  paid  when  due  shall  bear  interest  at  the  maximum  rate  permitted  by  law.  Interest  charges  shall  commence  on  the  date 
payment  is  due  and  shall  continue  until  payment  is  made  in  full. 


12.  If  royalty  is  not  paid  by  the  date  due,  Lessor  may  give  Lessee  written  notice  of  nonpayment  of  royalty,  and  if  Lessor's  royally  is 
not  paid  on  or  before  expiration  of  thirty  (30)  days  from  Lessee's  receipt  of  such  notice,  Lessor  may  terminate  this  lease  and  evict 
Lessee  forthwith.  However,  if  there  is  a  bona  fide  dispute  or  a  good  faith  question  of  royalty  entitlement  (either  as  to  ownership  or  as 
to  amount),  based  on  an  attorney's  written  opinion  furnished  to  lessor  prior  to  the  expiration  of  such  thirty  (30)  days.  Lessee  may 
pay  the  disputed  portion  of  Lessor's  royalty  to  a  trustee  to  he  selected  by  both  parties,  to  be  retained  by  such  trustee  and  invested  in 
interest-bearing  accounts  pending  resolution  of  the  entitlement  issue,  with  the  interest  to  belong  to  the  successful  party.  If  the  parties 
do  not  or  cannot  agree  on  a  trustee,  Lessee  may  tender  the  royalty  into  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  by  Bill  of  Interpleader,  to 
be  so  held  and  invested  by  the  clerk  under  the  direction  of  the  court,  If  the  royalty  is  so  paid  to  such  trustee  or  to  the  court  within  the 
time  provided,  then  Lessor  shall  not  have  the  right  to  terminate  this  lease  for  nonpayment  of  royalty. 


13.  Without  limiting  Lessor's  rights  or  Lessee's  obligations  under  any  other  provision  of  this  lease,  commencing  on  the  completion 
date  of  the  first  well  drilled  on  the  Leased  premises  as  a  producing  well,  no  more  often  than  once  in  any  three-year  period  during  the 
term  of  this  lease  Lessor  shall  have  the  right  to  have  an  audit  of  the  books,  accounts,  contracts,  records  and  data  of  Lessee 
pertaining  to  the  development,  production,  saving,  transportation,  sale,  and  marketing  of  the  oil,  gas,  and  sulphur  produced  from  or 
attributable  to  the  leased  premises  conducted.  If  the  exceptions  or  deficiencies  in  royally  payments  by  lessee  as  revealed  by  the 
audit  (the  "audit  exceptions")  are.  either  by  agreement  of  Lessor  and  Lessee  or  by  a  final,  non-appealable  judgment  binding  on  the 
parties,  determined  to  be  more  than  the  cost  and  expense  of  such  audit,  the  Lessee  shall  reimburse  lessor  for  the  cost  of  such  audit 
within  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  earlier  of  (i)  the  date  of  the  agreement  of  the  parties  respecting  the  amount  or  amounts  of  the  audit 
exceptions  or  (ii)  the  date  upon  which  a  judgment  binding  on  the  parties  and  determining  the  amount  or  amounts  of  the  audit 
exceptions  becomes  final  and  non-appealable.  If  the  audit  exceptions  are,  either  by  agreement  of  lessor  and  Lessee  or  by  a  final, 
non-appealable  judgment  binding  on  the  parties,  determined  to  be  less  than  the  cost  and  expense  of  the  audit,  such  cost  and 
expense  shall  be  borne  by  Lessor. 


14.  The  term  "operations"  as  used  in  this  lease  shall  mean  only  (i)  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  hydrocarbons  in  paying 
quantities  and  (ii)  the  actual  drilling,  testing,  completion,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in 
search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas,  conducted  in  good  faith  and  with  due  diligence;  and  drilling  operations 
will  not  he  considered  as  being  conducted  unless  a  rig  capable  of  drilling  to  the  prospective  depth  is  actually  in  place  and  rotating 
under  power. 


15.  Insofar  as  possible,  taking  into  consideration  the  productive  limits  of  the  producing  interval  and  the  configuration  of  the  leased 
premises,  the  lands  included  within  the  production  unit  for  a  well  shall  he  in  the  form  of  a  square  or  rectangle.  Every  effort  shall  he 
made  in  designating  production  units  to  avoid  releasing  small  or  irregularly  shaped  portions  of  the  leased  premises,  or  portions  not 
contiguous  with  other  released  portions.  Acreage  assigned  to  wells  producing  from  different  zones  may  overlap,  and  shall  overlap 
when  necessary  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  this  section.  If  a  well  is  producing  from  more  than  one  formation,  its  production 
unit's  size  and  configuration  shall  conform  to  the  Railroad  Commission  rules  applicable  to  the  well  which  provide  the  largest 
production  unit  (subject  to  the  size  limitations  stated  above),  If  all  or  a  portion  of  the  leased  promises  is  included  in  a  pooled  unit, 
then  for  purposes  of  this  paragraph  all  the  lands  within  the  pooled  unit  shall  be  considered  a  part  of  the  leased  premises,  and  the 
size  and  configuration  of  the  pooled  unit  must  conform  to  the  requirements  of  this  paragraph  for  a  production  unit. 


16.  As  to  any  acreage  which  is  not  included  within  any  production  unit  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  Lessee  may  maintain 
this  lease  as  to  such  excluded  acreage  beyond  the  primary  term  only  by  conducting  drilling  operations  thereon  with  no  cessation  of 
more  than  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  consecutive  days;  and  at  such  time  as  such  operations  cease.  Lessee  shall  designate  any 
additional  production  units  resulting  from  such  operations,  and  this  lease  shall  automatically  terminate  and  be  of  no  further  force  or 
effect  as  to  any  acreage  not  within  such  designated  units. 


17.  As  to  acreage  which  is  included  within  a  production  unit,  this  lease  may  he  held  in  force  after  the  termination  of  the  primary 
term  only  by  production  from,  or  operations  conducted  (as  provided  in  this  lease)  on  such  unit;  and  production  from,  or  operations 
conducted  on,  one  unit  will  not  maintain  this  lease  in  force  as  to  any  other  acreage  included  within  any  other  unit,  but  such 
production  or  operations  will  maintain  this  lease  only  as  to  the  acreage  within  the  unit  or  units  upon  which  such  production  or 
operations  are  being  maintained  or  conducted. 


18.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  during  the  term  of  this  lease  to  release  from  the  lands  covered 
hereby  any  lands  subject  to  this  lease  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  accruing  as  to  the  acreage  so  released. 


1 9.  Any  claim  of  delay  by  force  majeure  will  not  act  to  extend  this  lease  in  excess  of  two  (2)  years. 


20.  On  or  before  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  has  the  option,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  pay  Lessor  the 
same  bonus  per  net  mineral  acre  covered  by  this  Lease.  Upon  this  payment  being  made,  the  primary  term  of  the  Lease  shall  be 
extended  for  an  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years. 


21 .  At  the  end  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  or  upon  the  complete  development  of  the  leased  premises  after  the  end  of  the 
primary  term,  this  lease  will  terminate  automatically  as  to  all  depths  lying  more  than  one  hundred  (100)  feet  below  the  stratigraphic 
equivalent  of  the  deepest  producing  formation. 


22.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  he  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or 
horizon,  All  of  the  covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shall  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto, 
their  heirs,  successors,  assigns,  and  successive  assigns.  Assignees  of  Lessee  can  be  held  liable,  but  original 
Lessee  should  not  be  held  responsible  once  the  lease  has  been  assigned.  Each  assignee  of  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  rights  of  Lessee  hereunder  agrees  to  he  bound  by  the  provisions  of  this  lease  to  the  same  extent  as  if  such  assignee  were  an 
original  party  to  this  lease.  Lessee  shall  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the  assignment  of  this  lease  or  any  part  thereof  notify  lessor  of 
such  assignment  and  furnish  Lessor  a  true  copy  of  any  assignment  with  the  exception  of  assignments  being  made  to  officers, 
directors,  and/or  subsidiaries  of  Chesapeake  Energy.  All  notices  to  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  given  to  the  Lessee  named  herein, 
notwithstanding  the  assignment  of  part  or  all  of  this  lease.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  the  leased  premises,  royalties, 
or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected,  shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including, 
but  not  limited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement  of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or 
constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  the  leased 
premises  or  of  the  royalties  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall  be  binding  upon  the  then 
record  owner  of  this  lease  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of 
business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or 
copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the 
validity  of  such  change  or  division,  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may 
nevertheless  pay  or  tender  such  royalties  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof  to  Lessor. 


23.  Lessee  agrees  to  defend,  indemnify  And  hold  harmless  Lessor  and  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  representatives,  agents  and 
assigns  ("Indemnitees"),  from  and  against  any  and  all  claims,  demands  and  causes  of  action  for  injury  (including  death)  or  damage 
to  persons  or  properly  arising  out  of  incidental  to  or  resulting  from  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  or  Lessee's  servants,  agents, 
employees,  guests,  licenses,  invitees  or  independent  contractors,  and  from  and  against  all  costs  and  expenses  incurred  by 
Indemnitees  by  reason  of  any  such  claim  or  claims,  including  attorneys'  fees;  and  each  assignee  of  this  lease,  or  an  interest  agrees 
to  indemnify  and  hold  harmless  Indemnitees  in  the  same  manner  provided  above.  Such  indemnity  shall  apply  to  any  claim  arising 
out  of  operations  conducted  under  or  pursuant  to  this  lease,  howsoever  caused. 
The  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall  survive  the  termination  of  this  lease. 


24.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor 
shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respect  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty 
(60)  days  after  receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor. 
The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  iease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action 
shall  he  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  notice  nor  the  doing 
of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the  alleged  breaches  shall  he  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee 
has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder. 


25.  All  obligations  of  Lessee  other  than  the  payment  of  money  shall  be  performable  in  the  county  or  counties  in  which  the  leased 
premises  are  situated.  All  obligations  of  Lessee  for  the  payment  of  money  shall  be  performable  in  the  county  of  residence  of  each 
Lessor,  Venue  for  any  action  to  enforce  Lessee's  obligations  hereunder  shall  lie  in  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises  are 
situated  or  in  the  county  of  residence  of  any  party  hereto. 


LESSOR: 


LESSEE: 


By. 


By. 


Shawn  Coker,  Manager,  NPOT  Partners 
I.  LP 


Mike  Taliaferro,  President,  Dale  Property 
Services,  LLC 


LESSOR'S  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  Z  ~i> 
Manager  of  NPOT  Partners  I,  LP  on  behalf  of  the  Company. 


,  day  of  J 


MATTHSW  F.  G A3  RETT 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Cornrr.'sslcn  Expires 

October  23,  201 J 


2008,  by  Shawn  Coker, 


lie,  State  of  Texas 


LESSEE'S  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 
President,  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC  on  behalf  of  the  company. 


MATTHEW  F.  GARRETT 

m 

Nora.-y  Public,  Stale  o:  Texas 

My  Commission  Expires 

Octooer  23,  20)1 

,  2008,  by  Mike  Taliaferro, 


Stary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 

DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$32.00 


D208308175 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


