Removing  the  Harm 

From  the  One  Who  Dispraises  the  Son  of  Abu  Sufyan 

By 

The  Imam  Rassi  Society 

In  the  Name  of  Allah,  the  Most  Gracious,  the  Most  Merciful... 

All  praise  is  due  to  Allah,  the  Exalted  and  Majestic;  the  One  who  has  no  partners  or  associates;  the  One 
who  provides  the  light  of  guidance  to  His  slaves  so  that  they  may  attain  spiritual  perfection  and 
illumination  by  means  of  it.  May  Allah  send  His  choicest  blessings  upon  His  slave  and  seal  of  the 
Messengers,  Muhammad  bin  ‘Abdullah.  May  Allah  bless  his  pure  Progeny,  righteous  Companions,  and 
those  that  follow  them  in  excellence  until  the  Day  of  Judgment.  As  to  what  follows... 

There  is  no  discussion  or  debate  among  Muslims  that  is  more  heated  than  that  of  the  status  of  the  Prophet’s 
Companions.  Several  organisations  and  associations  have  been  established  to  defend  the  Companions  from 
what  they  believe  to  be  attacks.  These  defences  have  manifested  themselves  in  the  production  of  literature 
as  well  as  violent  confrontations. 

Of  course,  no  Muslim  in  his/her  right  mind  would  attack  the  Companions  collectively.  Those  individuals 
who — during  the  time  of  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny — 
accompanied  him  in  times  of  war  and  peace,  benefitted  from  his  sound  counsel  and  silence,  and  even 
gained  tremendous  stations  by  means  of  his  blessed  state  are  to  be  admired  and  emulated.  However,  that 
does  not  mean  that  all  of  them  were  grateful  of  their  unique  opportunity.  Some  of  them  were  labelled 
“hypocrites”  by  Allah  in  the  Qur’an.  The  Exalted  says  regarding  them:  {...and  from  those  around  thee  of 
the  desert  Arabs  are  hypocrites,  as  well  as  the  people  of  Medina.  They  are  obstinate  in  hypocrisy.  Ye 
know  them  not,  but  We  know  them...}  (Q.  9:101). 

Some  of  these  hypocrites  among  the  Companions  were  identifiable  by  way  of  their  dealings  with  the 
disbelieving  Arabs  and  certain  Jewish  tribes  at  that  time.  They  forged  relations  with  them  seeking  financial 
backing.  Allah  exposed  them  in  numerous  verses  and  commands  His  Messenger:  {O  Prophet!  Fight 
against  the  disbelievers  and  the  hypocrites  and  be  firm  against  them}  (Q.  9:73  & 66:9).  However,  as 
we  know,  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  refrained  from  killing  any  of  the 
hypocrites  among  his  Companions.  Even  if  he  knew  who  they  were,  he  didn’t  kill  them.  When  he  was 
asked  why  he  didn’t  execute  these  hypocrites,  he  cited  the  famous  statement  ((...so  that  it  is  not  said  that 
Muhammad  kills  his  Companions)). 

All  of  that  withstanding,  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  was 
commanded  to  fight  against  them.  It  will  logically  follow  that  the  one  appointed  to  take  the  Prophet’s  place 
in  his  affairs  would  be  commanded  to  oppose  those  hypocrites  as  per  the  order  from  Allah.  Such  a person 
would  have  to  be  the  symbol  of  Islam  after  the  death  of  Allah’s  Messenger  just  as  the  latter  was  the  symbol 
of  Islam  during  his  lifetime.  The  Muslim  community  needed  a sign  to  identify  these  hypocrites,  for  no  one 
can  look  into  the  hearts.  However,  if  they  were  confronted,  their  hypocrisy  would  be  manifest  to  all.  In  an 
agreed  upon  hadith  narrated  by  the  likes  of  Imams  Muslim,  Ahmed,  and  an-Nisa'i,  the  Prophet,  peace  and 
blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  declared:  ((O  ‘Ali,  none  will  love  you  except  a believer,  and  none 
will  hate  you  except  the  hypocrite!)) 

‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib — may  Allah  ennoble  his  face — was  the  shining  beacon  of  Islam.  He  was  appointed  by 
Allah  as  the  Guardian  ( wali ) of  the  Believers  who  was  to  fulfil  the  role  of  Guardianship  after  the  Prophet, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  In  another  rigorously  authenticated  report,  Allah’s 
Messenger  said:  ((‘Ali  is  the  Guardian  of  the  Believers  after  me)).  Just  as  the  hypocrites  manifested  covert 
hostility  towards  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  by  circumventing  his 
commands  and  undermining  his  authority,  they  showed  open  hostility  towards  his  Executor  by  their  hatred 
and  opposition  to  him.  They  knew  that  they  couldn’t  make  war  against  the  Prophet  during  his  lifetime,  but 
after  his  death,  their  hostility  towards  Islam  took  the  form  of  fighting  against  ‘Ali.  After  all — they 
thought — if  you  can’t  destroy  a man,  you  can  try  to  destroy  his  legacy. 


The  books  of  history  are  replete  with  examples  of  those  hypocrites  who  set  out  to  destroy  the  Prophetic 
legacy  by  both  their  tongues  and  their  actions.  The  throes  of  state  power  and  sectarian  parochialism  have 
protected  the  identities  of  some  of  these  hypocrites  simply  because  they  physically  accompanied  Allah’s 
Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  Attempts  to  dethrone  such  personalities  from 
the  minds  and  hearts  of  Muslims  have  fallen  prey  to  designs  of  the  self-proclaimed  ‘upholders  of  tradition’ 
as  well  as  to  those  would-be  ‘mystics.’  The  ‘traditionalists’  sought  to  dismiss  such  attempts  in  the  hope  of 
preserving  the  status  of  their  despots.  The  so-called  ‘mystics’  similarly  sought  to  prevent  such  attempt — 
citing  the  virtues  of  hiding  faults  and  having  a good  opinion.  Nevertheless,  the  voices  of  the  oppressed  and 
the  woes  of  those  who  are  slaves  to  truth  cannot  go  unheard  for  such  flimsy  reasons! 

Some  of  those  lovers  of  truth  and  justice  have  vehemently  exposed  and  dispraised  one  of  these 
aforementioned  culprits.  It  is  unfortunate  that  such  voices  have  been  drowned  out  by  the  ardent  cries  of 
“sectarian  division”  by  the  Generality!  The  purpose  of  this  piece  is  to  justify  such  dispraising  as  religiously 
lawful  with  the  hopes  of  quelling  the  flames  of  ignorance  that  have  consumed  the  Muslims.  Once  the 
Generality  is  familiar  with  what  is  narrated  about  this  personality,  such  feeble  attempts  to  defend  him  will 
dissipate.  Furthermore,  the  Muslims  will  be  able  to  come  to  the  table  of  unity  and  sincerely  discuss  their 
differences  based  on  thorough  research  and  not  emotional  blind-adherence. 

We  will  now  introduce  this  individual  who  is  no  stranger  to  controversy.  He  is  held  as  an  exemplar  ruler  by 
those  politically-minded  activists  seeking  to  justify  the  Machiavellian  expansion  of  Arab  polity.  He  is 
demoted  and  cursed  by  those  who  favour  principle  over  politics.  He  is  Mu’awiya  bin  Abu  Sufyan  bin 
Harb  bin  Umayya  bin  ‘Abdu  Shams  bin  ‘Abdu  Manaf. 

[Who  was  Mu’awiya] 

Mu’awiya  was  born  in  Mecca  20  years  before  the  Hijra.  He  was  among  the  offspring  of  the  enemy  of 
Islam,  Abu  Sufyan  and  Hind,  the  woman  who  bit  into  the  liver  of  Hamza  bin  Abdul-Muttalib.  He 
apparently  entered  Islam  in  the  year  9 AH  after  the  Opening  of  Mecca.  The  records  of  history  do  not  record 
any  incredible  feats  from  him  during  the  time  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny.  It  was  not  until  the  rule  of  the  2nd  caliph,  ‘Umar,  that  Mu’awiya  became  a political  leader  of  Syria. 
He  maintained  this  post  during  the  caliphate  of  his  cousin,  ‘Uthman  bin  ‘Affan.  He  stubbornly  held  this 
office  with  defiance  during  the  caliphate  of  Imam  ‘ Ali  bin  Abi  Talib — may  Allah  ennoble  is  face — until  the 
son  of  Abu  Sufyan  ushered  in  the  Umayyad  Dynasty.  He  was  declared  the  “first  king  in  Islam”  by  the  likes 
of  Ibn  Kathlr. 

[The  Virtues  of  Mu’awiya] 

One  would  think  that  such  person  would  have  accumulated  virtues  that  justified  his  rule  of  the  Muslims. 
However,  as  classical  jurist  and  traditionalist  Ishaq  bin  Rahawayh  said,  “There  is  nothing  authentic  narrated 
regarding  Mu’awiya’s  virtues.1”  Imam  ash-Shawkani  stated  in  his  Fawa'id  al-Majmu’a : “Ibn  Hibban  [a 
hadith  scholar  and  compiler  of  a SahTh ] said  that  all  hadlths  that  mention  the  virtues  of  Mu’awiya  are 
fabricated.” 

In  a commentary  of  SahTh  al-Bukhari  known  as  ‘Umdat  al-Qari,  Allama  Badrudln  al-‘Aini  said: 

If  you  said  that  there  are  many  hadiths  narrated  about  his  virtues,  I will  say  “yes”.  However,  none 
of  them  have  sound  chains  of  narrators.  This  is  explicitly  stated  by  Ishaq  bin  Rahawayh,  an-Nisa'i 
and  others.  That  is  why  he  [i.e.  al-Bukhari]  named  the  chapter  “What’s  Mentioned  Regarding 
Mu’awiya”  and  not  “The  Virtues  of  Mu’awiya”  or  his  praises. 

Ibn  Taymiyya  said  in  his  Minhdj  as-Sunnah : 

There  was  a party  who  fabricated  virtues  for  Mu’awiya  and  narrated  hadith  from  the  Prophet, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  concerning  that.  All  of  them  are  lies. 


Narrated  by  Imam  adh-Dhahabi  in  Siyar  Alam  an-Nubala. 


As  we  can  see,  the  scholars  specialising  in  the  sciences  of  hadlth  dismiss  those  narrations  in  which 
Mu’awiya  is  praised.  Some  scholars  even  suffered  because  of  their  refusal  to  accept  such  reports.  In  the 
Bidaya  wa  an-Nihaya  of  Ibn  Kathlr,  he  narrated  the  following  account: 

Abdur-Rahman  as-Salimi  said:  “I  visited  al -Hakim  [eminent  traditionalist  who  compiled  the 
Mustadrak ] while  he  was  in  hiding  from  the  Karamiya.  He  could  not  escape  from  them.  I said  to 
him:  ‘If  you  narrate  hadlth  about  the  virtues  of  Mu’awiya,  you  can  leave.’  He  replied:  ‘I  will  not 
do  it!  I will  not  do  it!”’ 

Replies  to  Objections 

Even  though  the  statements  of  the  traditionalists  are  clear  regarding  the  lack  of  virtues  on  the  part  of 
Mu’awiya,  there  have  been  attempts  to  raise  his  station  amongst  the  Muslims.  One  of  these  attempts  is  the 
most  persistent,  as  it  is  mentioned  the  most.  His  supporters  list  him  as  one  of  the  scribes  of  the  Qur’  an. 
Placing  such  responsibility,  they  say,  upon  him  proves  that  he  had  virtue. 

The  basis  of  their  statement  can  be  found  in  the  books  of  hadlth.  One  of  these  narrations  appear  in  the 
Dala'il  an-Nubuwwaol  Imam  al-Bayhaqi,  in  which  he  reported  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  ‘Abbas: 

I used  to  play  with  the  children  and  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  happened  to  pass  by.  I hid  myself  behind  the  door.  He  came  and  he  patted  upon  my 
shoulders  and  said:  ((Go  and  call  Mu’awiya  for  me)).  He  [i.e.  Mu’awiya]  used  to  write  the 
Revelation.  I went  to  go  get  him  and  it  was  said:  “He  is  eating.”  I returned  to  Allah’s  Messenger, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  informed  him.  Then  he  said:  ((Go  and  call 
Mu’awiya  for  me)).  I went  to  go  get  him  and  it  was  said:  “He  is  eating.”  I returned  to  Allah’s 
Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  informed  him.  He  said  on  the 
third  time:  ((May  Allah  not  satiate  his  belly!)) 

His  belly  was  never  filled. 

Another  example  can  be  found  in  Sahih  Muslim  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  ‘Abbas: 

The  Muslims  neither  looked  to  Abu  Sufyan  nor  did  they  sit  with  him.  He  said  to  the  Prophet, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny:  “O  Prophet  of  Allah,  give  me  three  things.”  He 
replied:  ((Okay)).  He  said:  “I  have  with  me  the  most  beautiful  and  the  best  of  the  Arabs,  Umm 
Hablba  bint  Abi  Sufyan.  Marry  her.”  He  said:  ((Okay)).  And  he  said:  “Make  Mu’awiya  your 
scribe.  He  said:  ((Okay)).  He  said:  “Make  me  a commander  so  that  I should  fight  against  the 
unbelievers  as  I fought  against  the  Muslims. ”He  said:  ((Okay)). 

Regarding  the  report  from  Dala'il  an-Nubuwwa , it  cannot  be  relied  because  the  detail  of  Mu’awiya  writing 
the  Revelation  is  missing  from  other  narrations  of  the  same  incident.  For  example,  the  report  in  Sahih 
Muslim — which  we  will  dwell  upon  later,  ins  ha- Allah — does  not  mention  that  Mu’awiya  was  a scribe  of 
Revelation. 

Furthermore,  Mu’awiya’s  promoters  should  not  promulgate  the  idea  that  he  was  the  Prophet’s  scribe  of 
Revelation  because  the  above  narration  presents  him  as  refusing  to  go  to  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings 
be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  when  summoned.  If  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him 
and  his  progeny,  had  called  Mu’awiya  to  dictate  the  Holy  Qur’an  and  the  latter  refused,  this  would  be  an 
explicit  demotion  of  Mu’awiya’s  character.  Such  a tell-tale  sign  demonstrates  that  his  concern  was  more  for 
his  belly  than  the  Word  of  Allah!  Therefore,  the  Prophet’s  imprecation  ((May  Allah  not  satiate  his  belly!)) 
was  more  than  appropriate. 

As  for  the  narration  in  Sahih  Muslim,  we  say  that  the  report  is  rejected  due  to  its  chain  of  narrators  and  its 
text.  Some  scholars  of  hadlth  criticism  state  that  one  of  the  narrators,  ‘Ikrima  bin  ‘Ammar,  is  weak — even 
though  Imam  Muslim  considered  him  reliable.  Ibn  al-Jawzi  said  in  his  Kashf  al-Mishkal: 

Yahya  bin  Sa’Id  weakened  his  [Tkrima’s]  hadlths  and  said:  “They  are  not  authentic.”  Similarly, 
Ahmed  bin  Hanbal  said:  “His  hadiths  are  all  weak.”  That  is  the  reason  why  al-Bukhari  didn’t 
relate  reports  from  him.  Muslim  is  the  only  one  that  related  reports  from  him. 

Ibn  al-Qayyim  said  in  Zcid  al-Ma’ad : “This  hadlth  is  defective  and  there’s  no  hiding  it.”  Ibn  Hazm  said: 
“This  is  fabricated  without  a doubt.  ‘Ikrima  bin  ‘Ammar  lied.” 


Regarding  the  text  of  the  report,  Ibn  Taymiyya  said  in  his  Majmu’  al-Fatawa: 

Muslim  narrated  hadlths  knowing  that  they  were  defective.  For  example,  he  narrated  that  when 
Abu  Sufyan  became  Muslim,  he  said:  “I  want  you  to  marry  Umm  Hablba.”  There’s  no 
disagreement  among  the  people  that  he  [i.e.  the  Prophet]  married  her  before  Abu  Sufyan  entered 
Islam.” 

As  Ibn  Taymiyya  rightly  stated,  it  is  well-known  that  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  married  Umm  Hablba  before  Abu  Sufyan  entered  Islam.  The  anachronistic  error  in  this  report 
similarly  negates  the  other  aspects  of  the  narration.  Therefore,  this  report  from  Imam  Muslim  is  not 
accepted  due  to  weakness  in  its  chain  as  well  as  its  text. 

Even  if  the  report  was  sound,  it  would  not  imply  that  Mu’awiya  was  made  a scribe  of  Revelation  because 
the  narration  says  only  ‘scribe’  and  not  ‘scribe  of  Revelation.’  It  is  conceivable  that  Mu’awiya  was  made  a 
scribe  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  in  that  he  wrote  letters  of 
correspondence  between  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  others.  Imam 
adh-Dhahabi  narrated  in  his  Tarikh  al-Islam : 

Al-Mufaddal  al-Ghallabi  mentioned:  “Zayd  bin  Thabit  used  to  write  the  Revelation  of  the  Prophet, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  Mu’awiya  used  to  write  for  the  Prophet,  peace 
and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  correspondences  between  him  and  the  Arabs.” 

Similar  is  narrated  by  Ibn  Hajar  on  the  authority  of  traditionalist,  al-Mada'ini. 

[What  the  Prophet  Said  about  Mu’awiya] 

When  we  consult  the  books  of  hadlth  and  history  concerning  Mu’awiya,  we  see  statements  against  him.  For 
example,  there  is  a narration  reported  by  Imam  Muslim  in  his  Sahlh,  where  he  reported  the  following  on  the 
authority  of  Ibn  ‘Abbas: 

I used  to  play  with  the  children,  and  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  happened  to  pass  by.  I hid  myself  behind  the  door.  He  came  and  he  patted  upon  my 
shoulders  and  said:  ((Go  and  call  Mu’awiya  for  me)).  I returned  and  said:  “He  is  eating.”  Then  he 
said:  ((Go  and  call  Mu’awiya  for  me)).  I returned  and  said:  “He  is  eating.”  He  said:  ((May  Allah 
not  satiate  his  belly!)) 

Similarly,  in  Tarikh  al-Fada,  it  is  narrated: 

Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  sought  out  Mu’awiya  to 
write  something  but  he  [i.e.  Mu’awiya]  delayed  and  used  the  excuse  that  he  was  eating.  The 
Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  then  said:  ((May  Allah  not  satiate  his 
belly!))  He  remained  not  being  able  to  be  satiated.  He  [i.e.  Mu’awiya]  used  to  say:  “I  swear  by 
Allah,  I do  not  avoid  food  out  of  satiation,  I only  avoid  it  out  of  tiredness!” 

Furthermore,  Imam  al-Bayhaqi  narrated  in  his  Dald'il  an-Nubuwwa: 

Ibn  Abbas  said:  “I  used  to  play  with  the  children  and  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be 
upon  him  and  his  progeny,  happened  to  pass  by.  He  came  and  he  patted  upon  my  shoulders  and 
sent  me  to  Mu’awiya  to  fulfill  a need.  I came  to  him  while  he  was  eating.  I said:  ‘I  came  to  him 
while  he  was  eating.’  Then,  he  said:  ((May  Allah  not  satiate  his  belly!))” 

This  invocation  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  came  to  fruition  because 
Mu’awiya  was  not  able  to  eat  his  fill  thereafter.  Ibn  Kathlr  recorded  in  his  Al-Bidaya  wa  an-Nihaya : 

When  he  became  the  ruler  of  Syria,  he  used  to  eat  seven  times  a day.  A bowl  was  brought  to  him 
with  lots  of  meat  and  onions  and  he  would  eat  from  it.  He  would  eat  seven  helpings  of  meat  a day. 
He  would  also  eat  lots  of  sweets  and  fruits.  He  used  to  say:  “By  Allah,  I am  not  satiated,  I’m  only 
tired!  This  is  a numbered  blessing  sought  by  every  king!” 

Indeed,  the  signs  of  this  gluttony  could  readily  be  seen  on  him.  Ibn  Kathlr  also  recorded  in  his  Al-Bidaya 
wa  an-Nihaya: 

Mughlra  said  on  the  authority  of  Shu’bi:  “The  first  to  deliver  the  sermon  sitting  was  Mu’awiya. 
This  was  when  he  was  fat  and  his  stomach  was  huge.” 


Replies  to  Objections 

Despite  the  explicitness  of  this  Prophetic  statement,  there  have  been  attempts  by  Mu’awiya’s  supporters  to 
obfuscate  its  import.  These  attempts  take  two  forms:  concealment  and  interpretation.  We  will  address  each 
one  of  these  feeble  efforts. 

Regarding  concealment,  some  narrators  have  sought  to  hide  the  identity  of  the  one  who  Allah’s  Messenger 
imprecated.  Abu  Shaykh  al-Isfahani  narrated  in  his  Tabaqdt  al-Muhaddithin : 

On  the  authority  of  Ibn  ‘Abbas  who  said:  “The  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  sent  for  so-n-so  ifuldn ).  They  said:  ‘He  is  eating.’  Then,  he  [i.e.  the  Prophet]  said:  ((May 
Allah  not  satiate  his  belly!)) 

In  this  particular  report,  the  details  are  abbreviated  and  Mu’awiya’s  name  is  curiously  missing.  This  weak 
attempt  to  hide  the  identity  of  the  perpetrator  is  countered  by  the  many  reports  in  which  his  name  is 
mentioned. 

Regarding  interpretation,  some  of  Mu’awiya’s  proponents  sought  to  deflect  the  apparent  blow  of  the 
Prophet’s  malediction  and  miraculously  transform  it  to  praise!  One  notable  example  is  a report  narrated  in 
the  Musnad  of  at-Tayalisi.  He  reported  the  same  incident  but  added  the  statement  of  one  of  the  sub- 
narrators: 

On  the  authority  of  Ibn  ‘Abbas  who  said:  “Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him 
and  his  progeny,  sent  for  Mu’awiya  to  write  something  for  him.  It  was  said  that  he  was  eating. 
Then  he  sent  for  him  again.  It  was  said  that  he  was  eating.  Then  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and 
blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  said  ((May  Allah  not  satiate  his  belly!)).” 

‘Abdullah  bin  Ja’far  bin  Faris,  the  narrator,  said  on  the  authority  of  Yunus  bin  Habib:  “The 
meaning — and  Allah  knows  best — is  ‘May  Allah  not  satiate  his  belly  in  this  world  so  that  it  is  not 
hungry  on  the  Day  of  ludgment!’  This  is  because  of  the  report  on  the  authority  of  the  Prophet, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny:  ((The  one  who  prolongs  satiation  in  this  world 
will  prolong  their  hunger  on  the  Day  of  ludgment)). 

Such  misinterpretation  allows  for  the  spin-doctors  to  paint  the  Prophet’s  imprecation  in  a positive  light.  The 
Prophet’s  obvious  denigration  becomes  a blessing  by  juxtaposing  it  to  another  hadlth.  This  gross 
misreading  has  also  been  employed  by  the  medieval  and  modern  defenders  of  the  son  of  Abu  Sufyan.  We 
can  respond  to  such  false  assertion  in  various  ways. 

First,  the  context  of  the  hadlth  does  not  allow  it  to  be  other  than  a curse  because  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace 
and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  uttered  it  after  unsuccessfully  summoning  Mu’awiya.  It  is  not 
sensible  that  one  who  orders  someone  to  do  something,  utter  a praise  for  the  one  who  has  disobeyed  the 
order.  Allah  orders  the  believers:  {O  ye  who  believe,  answer  the  call  of  Allah  and  the  Messenger  when 
He  calls  thee  to  that  which  gives  thee  life...}  (Q.  8:24)  and  {O  ye  who  believe!  Obey  Allah  and  His 
Messenger,  and  turn  not  away  from  him  when  thou  hear}  (Q.  8:20)  and  {The  Prophet  has  more  right 
on  the  believers  than  they  have  over  themselves...}  (Q.  33:6).  Therefore,  such  defiance  does  not  warrant 
praise  or  benediction. 

Second,  the  lasting  consequence  of  the  imprecation  was  that  Mu’awiya  could  never  eat  his  fill.  This,  in 
turn,  caused  him  to  grow  large  and  never  be  satiated.  Mu’awiya  saw  the  effects  of  this  condemnation  with 
him  not  being  able  to  fill  his  gut.  His  increased  girth  became  such  a burden  that  he  had  to  sit  during  the 
Friday  sermon  where  it  is  Sunnah  to  stand.  We  couple  this  fact  with  the  well-known  statement  of  the 
Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny:  ((The  believer  eats  in  one  stomach  but  the 
disbeliever  [in  some  narrations:  “the  hypocrite”]  eats  in  seven  stomachs))2. 


’ Related  in  Sahih  al-Bukhari  and  Sahili  Muslim. 


Third,  Mu’awiya  did  not  use  the  Prophet’s  statement  as  an  evidence  of  his  own  virtue.  Surely,  if  he 
understood  the  hadlth  to  indicate  a blessing  and  not  a curse,  he  would  have  numbered  it  as  a virtue  when 
attempting  to  prove  his  worth.  The  books  of  Islamic  history  record  the  letters  and  statements  of  Mu’awiya, 
but  none  of  them  record  that  he  cited  this  hadlth  as  an  advantage  or  virtue.  He  could  have  mentioned  it  to 
bolster  his  claim  for  the  Caliphate,  but  he  didn’t. 

Fourth,  if  this  was  such  a virtue  and  praise  for  Mu’awiya,  we  ask:  “Why  did  his  supporters  make  such  an 
effort  to  conceal  his  identity?’’  The  reader  can  refer  to  the  narration  in  the  Tabaqdt  al-Muhaddithln  above 
where  he  is  conveniently  known  as  ‘so-n-so.’  If  the  hadlth  was  meant  to  be  an  appraisal,  his  supporters 
would  joyfully  leap  at  the  opportunity  to  make  his  identity  known. 

Fifth,  if  we  accept  this  hadlth  as  a praise  and  virtue  of  Mu’awiya,  we  should  dismiss  it  altogether.  This  is 
because — as  we  demonstrated  above — the  scholars  of  hadlth  say  that  any  report  in  praise  of  Mu’awiya  is  a 
fabrication.  Therefore,  it  could  not  be  used  as  a basis. 

Sixth,  the  supporters  of  Mu’awiya  did  not  consider  the  hadlth  as  a virtue  in  the  case  of  traditionalist  Imam 
an-Nisa'i.  Imam  adh-Dhahabi  narrated  in  his  Tcidhkircit  al-Huffdz  that  Imam  an-Nisa'i  went  from  Egypt  to 
Damascus  and  was  greeted  by  a mob.  He  was  asked  about  the  virtues  of  Mu’awiya  and  replied: 

What  can  I narrate?!  I don’t  know  of  any  virtue  narrated  about  Mu’awiya  except  the  hadlth:  ((O 
Allah,  do  not  satiate  his  belly!)) 

Afterwards,  the  people  began  beating  him  until  he  left  the  mosque.  He  was  carried  on  his  riding  beast  until 
he  died.  In  this  case,  Mu’awiya’s  proponents  punished  Imam  an-Nisa'i  for  him  relating  this  hadlth.  If  it  was 
a virtue,  they  wouldn’t  have  beaten  him  to  death. 

[Proofs  for  Mu’awiya’s  Condemnation] 

Given  all  of  the  above,  we  can  fairly  conclude  that  Mu’awiya  has  no  unique  virtues  afforded  to  him  nor  has 
he  been  praised  by  Allah  or  His  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny. 
Furthermore,  we  can  also  say  that  any  report  that  one  can  find  in  praise  of  Mu’awiya,  is  immediately 
dismissed  as  spurious. 

Now  that  we  have  established  this,  we  will  now  attempt  to  prove  that  it  is  permissible  to  dispraise 
Mu’awiya.  If  one  were  to  rely  upon  just  one  of  these  reasons,  it  would  be  sufficient. 

I.  He  killed  ‘Ammar  bin  Yasir 

As  is  well-known  to  those  familiar  with  hadlth  and  history,  the  Prophet’s  Companion — ‘Ammar  bin 
Yasir — was  killed  by  the  forces  of  Mu’awiya  during  the  Battle  of  SiffTn  in  36  AH.  It  was  prophesied  by 
Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  that  ‘Ammar  would  be  killed  by  a 
rebellious  group.  He,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  said  in  a well-known  hadlth:  ((Alas 
to  ‘Ammar!  He  will  be  killed  by  a rebellious  group  (fi'at  al-bdghiya)\  He  will  call  them  to  Paradise  and 
they  will  call  him  to  the  Fire!))3 

The  Prophet’s  statement  that  Mu’awiya’s  forces  were  “a  rebellious  group’’  should  be  sufficient  enough  to 
prove  that  the  son  of  Abu  Sufyan  should  be  condemned.  Linguistically,  the  term  baghi  implies  a type  of 
transgression  by  which  one  is  dispraised.  Edward  Lane  in  his  Lane’s  Lexicon  notes  the  following  about  the 
word  baghi: 

Hence,  baghi  signifies  the  act  of  acting  wrongfully,  injuriously,  or  tyrannically;  because  the  envier 
acts  towards  the  envied;  his  endeavour  being  to  cause,  by  guile,  the  blessing  of  God  upon  him  to 
depart  from  him. 

He  also  narrated  the  meaning  of  fi'at  al-bdghiya  as  “A  company  of  men  revolting  from  the  just  Imam.” 

So,  even  from  a linguistic  perspective,  the  envious  Mu’awiya  and  his  party  were  amongst  those  from  whom 
the  blessing  and  mercy  of  Allah  departs.  His  flagrant  killing  of  ‘Ammar  bin  Yasir  designated  him  as  a 
baghi  and  therefore,  not  deserving  of  Allah’s  blessings. 


3 Narrated  by  al-Bukhari  in  his  Sahili,  Ahmed  in  his  Musnad,  Ibn  Hibban  in  his  Sahih,  an-Nisa'i,  al-Bayhaqi,  al-Hakim,  Ibn  Hajar  al- 
Asqalani,  at-Tabarani  and  others. 


Recognising  the  import  of  this  hadlth,  there  was  an  attempt  by  the  crafty  Mu’awiya  to  redirect  it  towards 
Imam  ‘Ali  and  his  forces!  In  the  Musnad  of  Imam  Ahmed  bin  Hanbal,  we  read: 

When  ‘Ammar  bin  Yasir  was  killed,  ‘Amr  bin  Hazm  entered  upon  ‘Amr  bin  al-A’as  and  said: 
“Ammar  was  killed  and  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  said  that 
‘Ammar  would  be  killed  by  the  rebellious  group.”  ‘Amr  bin  al-A’as  stood  fearing  and  vomiting 
until  he  entered  upon  Mu’awiya.  Mu’awiya  asked:  “What  is  the  matter?”  ‘Amr  replied:  “Ammar 
was  killed.”  Mu’awiya  replied:  “So  what  if  ‘Ammar  was  killed?”  ‘Amr  answered:  “I  heard  Allah’s 
Messenger  say  that  ‘Ammar  would  be  killed  by  the  rebellious  group.”  Mu’awiya  told  him:  “... 
Were  we  the  ones  who  killed  him?  ‘Ali  and  his  group  killed  him!  They  brought  him  here  and 
threw  him  into  our  lances!” 

Such  devious  misrepresentation  of  the  Prophet’s  words  only  serves  to  demonstrate  the  slimy  depths  that 
Mu’awiya  would  go  to  justify  his  aggression!  Although  he  and  his  forces  were  content  with  their 
misinterpretation,  it  is  clear  to  one  with  eyes  and  a heart  of  truth  who  the  “rebellious  party”  was.  According 
to  the  Companion,  ‘Abdullah  bin  ‘Umar,  Mu’awiya  and  his  team  were  the  rebellious  party.  It  is  narrated  in 
the  I’tisab  of  Sunni  historian  and  jurist,  Yusuf  bin  ‘Abdul-Barr: 

On  the  authority  of  Habib  bin  Abi  Thabit  from  his  father,  that  he  was  present  at  the  time  of  death 
of  ‘Abdullah  bin  ‘Umar.  And  he  [i.e.  Ibn  ‘Umar]  said:  “I  don’t  regret  anything  from  my  soul  in 
this  world  except  that  I did  not  fight  against  the  rebellious  group  with  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib!” 

It  is  clear  from  Ibn  Umar’s  words  that  Mu’awiya  was  the  rebellious  group.  He  did  not  understand  from  the 
hadlth  that  ‘Ali  and  his  party  were  guilty,  otherwise  he  wouldn’t  have  sought  to  fight  alongside  Imam  ‘Ali, 
upon  him  be  peace. 

Also,  the  bulk  of  Companions  who  fought  on  the  side  of  Imam  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace,  didn’t  have  the 
warped  understanding  that  Mu’awiya  and  his  group  promoted.  According  to  the  same  text  by  Ibn  ‘Abdul- 
Barr,  ‘Abdur-Rahman  bin  Ubza  said: 

We  witnessed  in  Siffin  that  with  ‘Ali — may  Allah  be  pleased  with  him — were  the  800  who  took 
the  oath  of  allegiance  at  Ridwan.  Sixty -three  of  them  were  killed,  including  ‘Ammar  bin  Yasir. 

In  other  words,  800  Companions  who  accompanied  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  during  the  Battle  of  Ridwan  fought  on  the  side  of  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace. 

One  must  not  mince  the  words  of  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny, 
regarding  the  fate  of  Mu’awiya  for  killing  ‘Ammar.  One  may  argue  that  the  hadlth  does  not  condemn  his 
killers  to  Hell.  What  is  even  more  explicit  is  the  hadlth  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and 
his  progeny,  in  which  he  said:  ((O  Allah,  I have  attached  the  Quraysh  to  ‘Ammar.  Whoever  kills  ‘Ammar 
and  causes  him  to  be  bereaved  will  be  in  the  Hellfire!)).4 

II.  He  innovated  in  Islamic  Law. 

The  consensus  of  the  Muslims  agrees  that  anyone  who  innovates  in  Islamic  Law  should  be  condemned. 
This  is  based  upon  authentic  hadiths  from  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny. 
We  shall  narrate  just  a few.  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  is 
recorded  to  have  said  the  following:  ((Every  innovation  is  deviance.  Every  deviance  is  in  the  Fire)); 
((Whoever  innovates  in  this  matter  of  ours  shall  have  it  rejected));  ((Whoever  innovated  in  the  religion  will 
be  responsible  for  it.  Whoever  innovates  in  the  religion  or  gives  shelter  to  someone  who  innovates,  such 
one  will  be  cursed  by  Allah,  the  angels  and  all  people)).  These  should  be  sufficient  evidence  that  the 
innovator  in  the  religion  is  condemned  and  cursed. 

Furthermore,  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  specified  how  to 
identify  one  of  these  innovators.  He  is  reported  to  have  said:  ((The  first  to  change  my  Sunnah  will  be  a man 


4Narrated  and  authenticated  by  al-Hakim  in  his  Al-Mustadrak  and  at-Tabarani  in  his  Al-Mu’jam  al-Kabir.  Shaykh  Nasruddin  al- 
Albani  authenticated  it  in  SahTh  al-Jami  ’ as-Saghlr. 


from  the  Bani  Umayya)).5  The  context  of  the  hadlth  is  even  more  instructive.  Yazld  bin  Abi  Sufyan  was  the 
commander  of  the  armies  Syria  during  the  time  of  Abu  Bakr  and  Umar.  During  one  of  the  raids,  he  took  a 
slave-girl  for  himself  from  one  of  the  soldiers.  Abu  Dharr  told  him  three  times  to  return  her  to  the  soldier. 
Abu  Dharr  then  quoted  the  aforementioned  hadlth.  After  hearing  it,  Yazld  asked  “Am  I the  one?”  Abu 
Dharr  said  ‘O  Allah,  no.”  Yazld  then  returned  her  to  the  soldier.  Although  Yazld  innovated  in  the  religion, 
Abu  Dharr  made  it  clear  to  him  that  the  Umayyad  commander  was  not  the  one  referred  to  in  the  Prophetic 
utterance.  This  dishonour  will  be  given  to  another  Umayyad  who  would  manifest  many  more  innovations 
in  Islam.  Although  this  particular  report  does  not  mention  Mu’awiya’s  name,  the  following  evidences  will 
clearly  show  that  he  is  the  one  referred  to. 

A.  Attributing  Ziyad  to  Abu  Sufyan 

As  is  well  known  in  the  annals  of  history,  Mu’awiya  falsely  attributed  Ziyad  bin  Abih  to  his  own  father, 
Abu  Sufyan.  As  it  was  well  known  that  Ziyad  was  birthed  due  to  unsavoury  circumstances,  the  son  of  Abu 
Sufyan  sought  to  relieve  Ziyad  of  the  obvious  stigma  attached  to  him.  His  attributed  name  ‘Abih’  translates 
into  ‘his  father.’  This  means  that  Ziyad  was  unaware  of  his  father’s  identity,  which  gives  a lucid  hint  of  his 
mother’s  profession.  Imam  Jalaluddln  as-Suyuti  narrated  in  his  Dlbaj  ‘ala  Muslim: 

Ziyad  was  attributed  by  Mu’awiya  to  his  father,  Abu  Sufyan.  All  of  this  occurred  after  he  was 
well-known  by  the  name  Ziyad  bin  Abih.  This  is  because  his  mother  gave  birth  to  him  on  the  bed 
of  ‘Ubayd.  This  was  the  first  principle  in  Islamic  Law  that  was  altered. 

Such  move  violated  the  terms  of  Islamic  Law  because  it  contradicted  the  very  command  of  Allah  and  that 
of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  Regarding  the  violation  of  Qur’anic 
injunction,  Allah  says:  {Attribute  to  them  the  names  of  their  fathers.  This  is  most  just  according  to 
Allah}  (Q.  33:5).  The  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  also  said:  ((The  one 
born  belongs  to  the  bed  and  to  the  adulterer,  the  room)).  Such  was  an  open  and  blatant  contradiction  of 
Islamic  Law. 

He  was  even  condemned  for  that  by  the  Prophet’s  Companions  and  others.  Ibn  Hajar  narrated  in  his  Fath 
al-Bari: 

Many  Companions  and  Followers  objected  to  Mu’awiya  for  that  and  used  as  a proof  the  hadlth: 
((The  one  born  belongs  to  the  bed  and  to  the  adulterer,  the  room)). 

Ibn  Kathlr  related  in  his  Al-Bidaya  wa  an-Nihaya  regarding  what  took  place  in  the  year  44  AH: 

In  this  year,  Mu’awiya  bestowed  upon  Ziyad  bin  Abih  the  attribute  of  Abu  Sufyan.  This  is  because 
a man  witnessed  that  it  was  Abu  Sufyan  who  committed  adultery  with  Sumayya,  the  mother  of 
Ziyad,  during  Pre-Islamic  Ignorance.  She  got  pregnant  from  that. 

When  Mu’awiya  gave  him  this  name,  he  was  called  Ziyad  bin  Abi  Sufyan.  Hasan  al-Basri 
objected  to  this  attribution  and  said  that  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and 
his  progeny,  said:  ((The  one  born  belongs  to  the  bed  and  to  the  adulterer,  the  room)). 

Ahmed  said:  “Huthaym  related  to  us  on  the  authority  of  Khalid — Abu  ‘Uthman  who  said,  ‘When 
Ziyad  was  called  this,  I met  Abu  Bakra  and  he  said,  “What  are  you  doing?  I heard  Sa’d  bin  Abi 
Waqqas  say:  ‘I  heard  with  my  own  ears  that  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him 
and  his  progeny,  said:  ((In  Islam,  whoever  attributes  a father  to  one  who  is  not  his  father,  while 
knowing  that  it  is  not  his  father — Paradise  would  be  prohibited  for  him)).”’  Abu  Bakra  said,  “I 
also  heard  this  from  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.” 

B.  Innovating  in  the  prayer 

One  of  the  most  salient  features  known  in  Islam  is  the  ritual  prayer.  Despite  the  fact  that  no  other  act  of 
worship  had  been  performed  in  front  of  the  Companions  as  many  times  as  the  prayer,  there  is  no  other  act 
of  worship  in  which  there  is  more  disagreements  than  the  prayer.  Many  of  these  disagreements  can  be  seen 


5Narrated  by  Ibn  Asakir  in  his  Tarikh  Dimashq,  Ibn  Abi  Shayba  in  his  Musannaf  al-Bayhaqi  in  his  Ad-Dala'ilan-Nubuwwa  and  Ibn 
Hajar  al-‘Asqalani  in  his  Al-Mutalib  al-Aliya.  Ibn  Hajar  declared  his  chain  of  narrators  as  ‘good’  ( hasan ).  Shaykh  Nasruddln  al-Albani 
also  declared  the  chain  ‘good’  in  SahTh  al-JamV  as-Saghlr. 


to  be  a result  of  politics.  The  son  of  Abu  Sufyan  was  not  devoid  of  infiltrating  this  act  of  worship  with 
innovations. 

His  innovations  were  even  evident  in  the  pre -prayer  call  ( al-iqama ) and  the  call  to  prayer  ( al-adhan ).  He 
reduced  the  wording  of  the  pre -prayer  call.  Allama  as-Sarkhasi  related  in  his  Al-Mabsut: 

Ibrahim  an-Nakha’i  said:  “The  first  to  reduce  the  wording  of  the  pre -prayer  call  to  singular  was 
Mu’awiya.”  Mujahid  said:  “The  pre -prayer  call  used  to  be  doubled  just  like  the  call  to  prayer  up 
until  the  terror  of  some  oppressive  governors.  They  made  it  singular.  The  proof  is  against  them.” 

Imam  al-Hafiz  Muhammad  bin  Hasan  ash-Shaybani,  companion  of  Abu  Hanlfa  and  one  of  the  founders  of 
his  madhhab,  said  in  his  Al-Hujjat  ‘ala  Ahl  al-Madlna : 

The  first  one  to  make  the  wording  of  the  pre -prayer  call  single  was  Mu’awiya,  as  has  been  related 
to  us.  Muhammad  bin  Abban  bin  Salih  narrated  to  us  on  the  authority  of  Hamad  that  Ibrahim  an- 
Nakha’i  said:  “The  first  one  to  reduce  the  takblr  in  the  prayer,  to  initiate  the  prayer  before  the 
sermon  on  the  two  Eids,  to  deliver  the  sermon  while  sitting,  as  well  as  to  reduce  the  pre -prayer  call 
and  the  final  salutations  was  Mu’awiya  bin  Abi  Sufyan. 

It  is  a universal  principle  accepted  by  all  Muslims  that  there  is  no  call  to  prayer  or  pre -prayer  call  for  the 
Eid  prayers.  Neither  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  nor  the  Caliphs 
advocated  for  a call  to  prayer  for  the  two  Eid  prayers.  Imam  Muslim  records  in  his  SahTh  that  Jabir  bin 
‘Abdullah  said  regarding  the  two  Eid  days:  “He  (i.e.  the  Prophet)  performed  the  prayer  before  the  sermon, 
without  the  call  to  prayer  or  pre -prayer  call.”  However,  Mu’awiya  decided  that  both  should  be  called  on  the 
Eid  days.6  Ibn  Kathlr  related  in  his  Al-Biddya  wa  an-Nihaya : 

Qatada  related  that  Sa’Id  bin  al-Musayyab  said:  “The  first  to  give  the  call  to  prayer  and  pre-prayer 
call  on  the  Day  of  Breaking  the  Fast  ( yawm  al-Fitr ) and  the  Day  of  Sacrifice  ( yawm  an-Nahr)  was 
Mu’awiya.” 

The  son  of  Abu  Sufyan  also  innovated  in  the  prayer  itself  by  reducing  the  Fatiha.  As  is  well  known,  the 
recitation  of  the  Fatiha  is  an  essential  part  of  the  prayer.  The  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and 
his  progeny,  said:  ((There  is  no  prayer  without  the  Fatiha ))  and  ((When  you  stand  for  the  prayer,  declare 
Allahu  Akbar  and  recite  the  Mother  of  the  Qur’an...)).  Despite  the  Prophetic  command,  the  ‘first  king  in 
Islam’  saw  fit  to  exclude  one  of  its  verses.  Imam  Fakhruddln  ar-Razi  narrated  in  his  Qur’anic  exegesis,  At- 
TafsTr  al-Kabir : 

Imam  ash-Shafi’  narrated  from  his  chain  of  narrators  that  Mu’awiya  came  to  Medina  and  led  the 
prayers.  He  didn’t  recite  Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahlm  nor  did  he  recite  Allahu  Akbar  during 
bowing  and  prostration.  After  he  recited  the  final  salutations,  the  Muhajirun  and  Ansar  called  out: 
‘O  Mu’awiya!  You  have  stolen  from  the  prayers.  Where  were  Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahlm  and 
the  recitation  of  Allahu  Akbar  during  bowing  and  prostration?”  He  then  repeated  the  prayer  with 
Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahlm  and  the  recitation  of  Allahu  Akbar  during  bowing  and  prostration. 

Some  may  point  out  that  Mu’awiya’s  neglecting  of  the  Basmala  was  due  to  a lapse  in  judgment  or  memory. 
The  report — they  say — indicates  that  he  later  recited  the  first  verse  of  Fatiha  after  being  corrected  by  the 
Companions.  However,  this  disavowal  of  the  first  holy  verse  of  Fatiha  had  long-reaching  repercussions, 
and  we  are  sure  that  Mu’awiya  made  it  public  policy  to  neglect  its  recitation.  Our  proof  is  in  the  very  same 
book  where  Imam  Fakhruddln  ar-Razi  went  on  to  relate: 

‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib,  may  Allah  be  pleased  with  him,  used  to  recite  Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahlm 
aloud  in  the  prayers.  It  is  established  by  mass-transmitted  reports.  Whoever  followed  ‘Ali  bin  Abi 
Talib  in  religion,  has  been  guided  aright.  Its  proof  is  his  statement,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon 
him  and  his  progeny:  ((O  Allah,  turn  the  truth  in  the  direction  where  ‘Ali  turns)). 

...‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace,  was  careful  in  reciting  Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahlm  aloud. 
However,  when  the  state  was  governed  by  Bani  Umayya,  they  were  keen  in  abandoning  the 


6Ibn  Hajar  related  in  his  Fath-al-Bari  that  there  is  disagreement  regarding  which  Umayyad  introduced  the  call  to  prayer  and  pre-prayer 
call  to  the  Eid  prayers.  However,  he  said  that  the  chains  of  narrators  attributing  this  act  to  Mu'awiya  are  more  authentic. 


recitation  of  Bismillah  ar-Rahman  ar-Rahun  aloud  for  the  purpose  of  invalidating  the  tradition  of 
‘Ali.” 


Evidently,  the  Umayyad  State  carried  out  the  abandonment  of  the  Basmala — not  on  the  basis  of 
independent  scholarly  judgment,  not  due  to  the  import  of  a Qur’anic  verse  or  Prophetic  hadith — but  simply 
because  it  was  at  variance  with  the  practice  of  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib! 

C.  Allowing  the  Muslim  to  inherit  from  the  disbeliever 

Mu’awiya  also  innovated  in  the  matter  of  inheritance.  The  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and 
his  progeny,  said  ( (The  Muslim  does  not  inherit  from  the  disbeliever  nor  does  the  disbeliever  inherit  from 
the  Muslim)).  However,  the  son  of  Abu  Sufyan  decided  that  the  Muslims  could  inherit  from  the  disbeliever. 
Ibn  Kathlr  reported  in  his  Al-Bidaya  wa  an-Nihdya: 

Az-Zuhri  said:  “The  Sunnah  was  that  the  disbeliever  does  not  inherit  from  the  Muslim,  and  the 
Muslim  does  not  inherit  from  the  disbeliever.  The  first  to  allow  the  Muslim  to  inherit  from  the 
disbeliever  was  Mu’awiya.  The  Bani  Umayya  decreed  that  after  him  until  the  time  of  ‘Umar  bin 
‘Abdul-Azlz.  He  returned  to  the  Sunnah;  however,  Hisham  came  after  him  and  did  the  same  thing 
that  Mu’awiya  and  the  Bani  Umayya  did  before.” 

D.  Altering  the  amount  of  indemnity  ( ad-diya ) to  be  taken 

The  amount  of  indemnity  that  is  to  be  collected  for  a Muslim  and  non-Muslim  is  the  same.  Allah  makes  no 
differentiation  in  the  Qur’an.  He — Exalted  be  He — says:  {Whosoever  slays  a believer  in  error,  upon  him 
is  the  freeing  of  a believing  slave  and  the  paying  of  indemnity  to  his  [i.e.  the  slain’ s]  family  unless  they 
forgo  it  as  charity... But,  if  he  was  from  amongst  those  with  whom  thou  have  a covenant,  then  thou 
art  to  pay  indemnity  to  his  family  and  free  a slave}  (Q.  4:92). 

Also,  when  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  sent  a letter  to  one  of  his 
governors  in  Yemen,  he  specified  that  the  indemnity  be  one  hundred  camels.  He  did  not  differentiate  the 
Muslims  from  non-Muslims,  as  Yemen  had  a large  Christian  population  at  the  time.  The  Messenger,  peace 
and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  was  also  recorded  to  have  declared  that  the  indemnity  of  a non- 
Muslim  protected  by  covenant  is  1000  dirhams — the  same  amount  for  a Muslim. 

Ibn  Kathlr  narrated  in  his  Al-Bidaya  wa  an-Nihdya  that  az-Zuhri  said: 

The  Sunnah  was  that  the  indemnity  of  the  non-Muslim  protected  by  contract  ( al-mu  ’dhid)  was  the 
same  as  the  indemnity  of  the  Muslim.  Mu’awiya  was  the  first  to  reduce  it  to  half  and  take  the  other 
half  for  himself. 

Ibn  Rushd  similarly  narrated  in  his  Bidaya  al-Mujtahid  that  az-Zuhri  said  that  the  indemnity  was  the  same 
for  Muslims  and  non-Muslims  during  the  time  of  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and 
his  progeny,  as  well  as  that  of  Abu  Bakr,  ‘Umar,  ‘Uthman  and  ‘Ali,  may  Allah  ennoble  his  face.  However, 
it  was  Mu’awiya  who  changed  it. 

Islamic  jurists  such  as  Imams  Malik  bin  Anas  and  Muhammad  bin  Idris  ash-Shafi’  have  adopted  the  ruling 
of  half  or  one -third  of  the  indemnity  for  non-Muslims.  They  cited  hadlths  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and 
blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  the  actions  of  ‘Umar  and  ‘Uthman  to  justify  their  position. 
However,  according  to  the  testimony  of  az-Zuhri,  the  practice  of  Prophet  Muhammad,  peace  and  blessings 
be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  the  two  caliphs  was  that  the  indemnity  was  the  same. 

III.  He  instituted  the  abuse  of  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib. 

As  we  mentioned  above,  the  jurists  have  consensual  agreement  that  the  open  reviling  and  cursing  of  Allah’s 
Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  amounts  to  disbelief.  No  one  who  does  so 
could  be  called  a believer  or  labelled  a Muslim.  This  is  because  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon 
him  and  his  progeny,  represents  the  Divine  Favour  of  Revelation  sent  to  humankind.  Such  a disavowal  of 
this  Divine  Favour — whether  this  comes  in  the  form  of  rejection,  insulting  or  cursing — results  in  an 
unambiguous  denial  of  Divine  Revelation.  Allah  says:  {The  Prophet  has  more  authority  over  the 
believers  than  they  have  over  themselves...}  (Q.  33:6).  Similarly,  the  Glorified  and  Exalted  says: 


{Verily,  those  who  abuse  Allah  and  His  Messenger — Allah  has  cursed  them  in  this  life  and  the 
Hereafter.  And  He  has  prepared  for  them  a humiliating  punishment}  (Q.  33:57). 

This  same  curse  and  malediction  would  apply  to  someone  who  cursed  the  ‘self’  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and 
blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  This  ‘self  of  the  Prophet  was  none  other  but  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be 
peace.  Allah  revealed  the  following  verse  concerning  a mutual  cursing  that  was  to  take  place  between  the 
Christians  of  Najran  and  the  Prophet  with  his  family:  {And  if  anyone  should  argue  with  thee  about  this 
[truth]  after  all  the  knowledge  that  has  come  to  thee,  say:  “Come!  Let  us  call  our  sons  and  thy  sons, 
and  our  women  and  thy  women,  and  ourselves  and  thyselves;  and  then  let  us  pray  [together]  humbly 
and  ardently,  and  let  us  invoke  Allah’s  curse  upon  the  liars.”}  (Q.  3:61).  The  Qur’anic  exegetes  are 
unanimous  in  applying  this  verse  to  the  People  of  the  Prophet’s  Household:  Ali,  Fatima,  al-Hasan  and  al- 
Hussein,  upon  them  be  peace.  Ibn  Kathlr  related  in  his  exegesis  of  this  verse: 

Jabir  said:  “{ourselves  and  thyselves]  means  the  Messenger  of  God,  peace  and  blessings 
be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  and  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib.  {...our  sons]  means  al-Hassan  and 
al-Hussein  and  {...our  women]  refers  to  Fatima.” 

Thus,  ‘Ali  is  called  the  Prophet’s  Self  as  per  Divine  Revelation.  Anything  that  applies  to  Allah’s 
Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  similarly  applies  to  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace. 
If  someone  obeys  Ali  it  is  as  if  they  have  obeyed  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny.  If  someone  disobeys  Ali,  it  is  as  if  they  disobeyed  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him 
and  his  progeny.  If  someone  praises  Ali,  it  is  as  if  they  praised  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon 
him  and  his  progeny.  If  someone  curses  Ali,  it  is  as  if  they  cursed  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon 
him  and  his  progeny. 

It  is  well-known  in  the  annals  of  history  that  Mu’awiya  bin  Abi  Sufyan  cursed  and  instituted  the  cursing  of 
Imam  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace.  This  is  something  that  even  his  admirers  are  forced  to  acknowledge  and 
admit.  It  is  an  aspect  of  the  son  of  Hind  that  can’t  be  denied. 

Regarding  the  practice  of  Mu’awiya,  Ibn  al-Athlr  narrated  in  his  AI-Kamil  at-TarTkh : 

In  his  supplication  ( qunut ),  he  used  to  abuse  ( sabba ) ‘Ali,  Ibn  Abbas,  al-Hassan,  al-Hussein  and 
[Malik]  al-Ashtar. 

Ibn  Kathlr  narrated  in  his  Al-Biddya  wa  an -Ni  hay  a : 

Then  he  [Sa’d  bin  Abi  Waqqas]  sat  with  him  [Mu’awiya]  on  his  cushion.  He  mentioned  ‘Ali  bin 
Abi  Talib  and  started  to  insult  him.  Then  he  [i.e.  Sa’d]  said:  “You  invite  me  to  your  house,  have 
me  sit  on  your  cushion  and  then  begin  to  insult  Ali  with  curses?!” 

He  didn’t  limit  his  vindictive  cursing  to  just  his  own  personal  dwellings  and  city.  He  even  verbally  insulted 
and  abused  ‘Ali  from  the  pulpit  of  the  very  man  who  said:  ((‘Ali  is  with  the  truth  and  the  truth  is  with 
‘Ali))!  Ibn  Abdur-Rabbih  narrated  in  his  Al-  ‘Iqdu  al-FarTd: 

When  al-Hassan  bin  ‘Ali  died,  Mu’awiya  made  Hajj.  He  entered  Medina  and  intended  to  curse 
‘Ali  on  the  pulpit  of  Allah’s  Messenger,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  It  was 
said  to  him,  “Sa’d  bin  Abi  Waqqas  is  here,  and  we  see  that  he  is  not  pleased  with  you  doing  that.” 
So  he  [i.e.  Mu’awiya]  sent  for  him  to  seek  his  opinion.  He  came  and  mentioned  it  to  him. 

He  [i.e.  Sa’d]  said:  “If  you  do  that,  we  will  leave  the  mosque  and  not  return!”  Mu’awiya  refrained 
from  cursing  him  until  Sa’d  died.  When  he  did  die,  he  [Mu’awiya]  cursed  him  [i.e.  ‘Ali]  from  the 
pulpit  and  wrote  to  his  governors  that  he  is  to  be  cursed  on  the  pulpits.  They  did  so. 

Umm  Salama,  a wife  of  the  Prophet,  wrote  to  Mu’awiya  and  said:  “Verily,  you  are  cursing  Allah 
and  His  Messenger  on  your  pulpits!  This  is  because  you  are  cursing  ‘Ali  and  whoever  loves  him!  I 
bear  witness  that  Allah  and  His  Messenger  loves  him!”  But  he  paid  no  heed  to  what  she  said. 

We  see  that  this  vile  personality  had  no  hesitation  to  desecrate  the  mosque  and  pulpit  of  the  Messenger, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  by  cursing  ‘Ali!  He  had  no  qualms  in  doing  so,  nor  did 
he  see  fit  to  pay  attention  to  what  one  of  the  Prophet’s  widows  had  to  say  on  the  matter.  Umm  Salama,  may 


Allah  be  pleased  with  her,  was  correct  in  her  advice  to  him.  This  is  because  she  also  narrated  that  the 
Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  said:  ((Whoever  abuses  ‘Ali  has  abused  me!))7. 

One  may  say  that  Mu’awiya  could  have  repented  from  cursing  Imam  ‘Ali,  upon  him  be  peace.  However, 
this  is  highly  unlikely  as  the  son  of  Abu  Sufyan  ordered  others  and  wrote  to  his  governors  to  carry  on  the 
cursing  of  the  Lion  of  Allah  indefinitely  with  no  evident  or  expressed  withdrawal  of  that  order  prior  to  his 
death. 

It  is  related  in  Sahlh  Muslim : 

Mu’awiya  ordered  Sa’d  bin  Abi  Waqqas  and  then  said:  “What  prevents  you  from  cursing  Abu 
Turab?” 


Abu  Turab  was  a nickname  the  Prophet  gave  ‘Ali,  may  Allah  ennoble  his  face.  In  this  report,  it  is  clear  that 
Mu’awiya  ordered  Sa’d  to  curse  ‘Ali.  One  cannot  argue  that  the  wording  is  ambiguous  because  the  report 
begins  with  “Mu’waiya  ordered  Sa’d  bin  Abi  Waqqas”  and  afterwards  Mu’awiya  asks  him  “What  prevents 
you...?”  Such  a statement  demonstrates  that  Mu’awiya  ordered  Sa’d  to  curse  Imam  ‘Ali  because  Sa’d  did 
not  act  on  Mu’awiya’s  command.  This,  in  turn,  prompted  the  son  of  Hind  to  inquire  as  to  why  Sa’d  didn’t 
act  upon  this  order. 

The  historian,  al-Mada'ini  narrated  in  his  Ansdb  al-Ashraf  that  Mu’awiya  wrote  to  Mughlra  bin  Shu’ba: 
“Manifest  insults  on  ‘Ali  and  belittle  him!” 

Abu  Fida  wrote  in  his  Al-Mukhtasar  fi  Akhbar  al-Bashar: 

Mu’awiya  and  his  governors  supplicated  for  ‘Uthman  [bin  A’ffan]  in  their  Friday  sermons,  and 
they  abused  ‘Ali.  They  continued  to  do  so. 

Mu’awiya  and  the  Umayyads  defiled  the  beautiful  occasion  of  the  Friday  congregational  prayer  services 
with  their  cursing  of  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib,  upon  him  be  peace.  Such  a practice  demonstrates  their  lack  of 
religiosity  and  scruples.  Their  wanton  display  of  hatred  for  the  Guardian  of  the  believers  knew  no  bounds 
as  they  took  advantage  of  the  congregation  of  the  Muslims  in  order  to  dispraise  him. 

This  practice  of  Mu’awiya  and  his  governors,  as  well  as  the  subsequent  ‘caliphs’  continued  for  almost  a 
century  until  the  time  of  the  righteous  Umayyad,  ‘Umar  bin  ‘Abdul- ‘Aziz.  Ibn  al-Athlr  reported  in  his  Al- 
Kamil  at-Tarikh : 

The  Banu  Umayya  used  to  abuse  the  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib,  upon  him  be 
peace,  until  the  time  that  ‘Umar  bin  ‘Abdul-‘AzIz  became  the  ruler.  He  abandoned  it  and  wrote  to 
his  governors  to  stop  doing  that. 

It  is  also  related  that  this  is  the  reason  why  sermonisers  recite  the  verse  {Verily,  Allah  commands  justice, 
goodness,  and  giving  towards  kin  and  forbids  immorality,  evil,  and  oppression}  (Q.  16:90)  in  the 
Friday  sermons.  ‘Umar  bin  ‘Abdul-‘AzIz  instituted  the  recitation  of  this  verse  to  take  the  place  of  the 
cursing  of  ‘Ali. 

Mu’awiya  manifested  open  hatred  towards  ‘Ali  and  the  People  of  the  Prophet’s  Household,  upon  them  be 
peace.  This  is  evident  from  his  institution  of  abuse  and  cursing  of  ‘Ali.  Such  action  in  itself  disqualifies  the 
son  of  Abu  Sufyan  as  a believer.  Such  is  proven  by  the  Book  of  Allah  and  the  Sunnah  of  His  Messenger, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny.  Regarding  the  Book  of  Allah,  He  commands  the 
believers  to  love  the  Family  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  with  the 
statement:  {Say:  “I  ask  thee  for  no  reward  but  only  affection  toward  the  kin”}  (Q.  42:23).  It  is  clear 
that  ‘Ali,  may  Allah  ennoble  his  face,  is  included  in  this  {affection  toward  the  kin}.  Al-Muhib  at-Tabari 
narrated  in  Dhakha  ‘ir  al-A  ’qba  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  al-  ‘Abbas: 

When  the  verse:  {Say:  I ask  thee  for  no  reward  but  only  affection  toward  the  kin}  (Q. 
42:23)  was  revealed,  the  people  asked:  “O  Messenger  of  Allah,  who  are  your  ‘kin’  in 


7 This  was  related  by  Imam  Ahmed  bin  Hanbal  in  his  Musnad , al-Hakim  in  his  Al-Mustadrak,  at-Tabarani  in  his  Al-Mu  'jam  and  an- 
Nisa'i  who  authenticated  its  chain  of  narrators. 


whom  affection  is  obligatory  for?”  He,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny, 
replied:  (( ‘ Ali,  Fatima,  and  their  descendants)). 

Ahmed  related  it  in  Al-Mandqib.  Ibn  Hajar  al-Haythami  related  it  in  his  Majmu  az-Zawcl'id.  At-Tabarani 
narrated  it,  and  Ibn  Hajar  mentioned  it  in  his  as-Sawa’iqa.  Al-Hakim  mentioned  it  on  the  authority  of  Ibn 
al- ‘Abbas.  This  is  also  on  the  authority  of  al-Baghawi  in  his  Qur’anic  exegesis. 

Anyone  who  avoids  this  obligation  has  committed  a major  sin  and  is  considered  defiantly  disobedient.  The 
Exalted  says  concerning  the  defiantly  disobedient:  {Is  the  one  who  believes  like  the  one  who  is 
disobedient?  They  are  not  the  same)  (Q.  32:18).  Therefore,  such  one  should  not  be  deemed  as  a believer 
according  to  the  Qur’an. 

Regarding  the  Sunnah , the  hadlths  of  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny, 
condemn  such  a person.  In  a well  known  hadlth,  the  Prophet,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his 
progeny,  prayed  to  Allah  regarding  ‘Ali  by  saying: 

((O  Allah,  help  those  that  help  him  and  oppose  those  that  oppose  him!  Assist  those  that 
assist  him,  and  abandon  those  that  abandon  him!)). 

If  one  showed  hostility  towards  ‘Ali,  may  Allah  ennoble  his  face,  it  is  clear  that  they  are  included  in  the 
imprecation  of  the  Prophet’s  supplication.  Is  it  permissible  to  pray  for  Allah’s  mercy  and  pleasure  for  such 
an  individual?! 

Furthermore,  Imam  at-Tabarani  related  on  the  authority  of  Ibn  ‘Umar  that  he,  peace  and  blessings  be  upon 
him  and  his  progeny,  said: 

((Whoever  dies  while  hating  you,  O ‘Ali,  will  die  as  if  during  the  days  of  pre-Islamic 
ignorance,  and  Allah  will  invalidate  his  actions  in  Islam)). 

Imam  Muslim  related  on  the  authority  of  Umm  Salama,  may  Allah  be  pleased  with  her,  that  the  Messenger, 
peace  and  blessings  be  upon  him  and  his  progeny,  said:  ((A  believer  will  not  hate  ‘Ali  and  a hypocrite  will 
not  love  him)).  All  such  proves  and  demonstrates  that  Mu’awiya  cannot  be  considered  a believer.  He  is  a 
hypocrite  at  best.  Even  if  we  were  to  accept  that  he  was  the  scribe  of  revelation,  such  action  would  be 
invalidated  by  his  ardent  hatred  of  ‘Ali,  as  evident  by  the  Prophetic  hadlth. 

[Conclusion] 

Due  to  the  aforementioned  proofs,  one  should  have  no  qualms  about  dispraising  Mu’awiya  bin  Abi  Sufyan. 
He  should  be  condemned  and  not  emulated  as  a righteous  and  just  person.  His  deeds — even  after  his 
supposed  conversion  to  Islam — should  be  placed  against  the  balance  of  the  Holy  Qur’  an  as  well  as  that  of 
the  Prophetic  Sunnah.  Despite  his  tenure  as  a governor  and  ‘caliph,’  his  legacy  brings  forth  nothing  but  an 
unapologetic  violation  of  the  true  message  of  Islam. 

Some  apologists  have  sought  to  defend  the  son  of  Abu  Sufyan.  They  claim  that  the  text  of  hadlth  and 
history  that  denigrate  his  character  and  show  him  to  be  a degenerate  are  concoctions  engineered  by  the 
Abbasids.  As  we  know,  the  Abbasids  were  the  competing  dynasty  that  overthrew  the  Umayyads.  The  Banu 
Abbaas — they  say — did  not  hesitate  to  diminish  the  stature  of  their  rivals  and  portrayed  the  rulers  of  the 
Banu  Umayya  as  lawless  and  corrupt  hedonists.  Mu’awiya — they  say — was  an  innocent  victim  of  the  anti- 
Umayyad  propaganda. 

We  can  respond  to  this  in  many  ways.  However,  suffice  to  say  that  Mu’awiya’s  corruptions  are  equally 
reported  by  his  defenders  and  pro-Umayyad  apologists.  Rather  than  deny  them,  they  have  attempted  to 
justify  them.  For  example,  his  all  out  war  effort  against  the  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  ‘Ali  bin  Abi  Talib 
is  not  denied;  rather,  they  say  that  Mu’awiya  ‘exercised  scholarly  independent  judgment  ( ijtihad )’  in 
waging  war  against  him.  Their  weak  justifications  are  immaterial;  however,  the  point  is  that  even  the  lovers 
of  Mu’awiya  do  not  deny  what  he  did.  Therefore,  the  claim  that  he  was  a hapless  victim  of  anti-Umayyad 
misinformation  is  erroneous  at  best. 


We  end  our  discussion  on  Mu’awiya  by  appealing  to  the  intellect  and  sense  of  justice.  Should  a person  of 


this  calibre  be  honoured  simply  because  he — briefly — accompanied  Allah’s  Messenger?  Should  we  refrain 
from  mentioning  his  violations  of  Islamic  Law  with  the  lame  excuse  of  ‘scholarly  independent  judgment’? 
Should  we  continue  to  praise  and  pray  for  a person  who  implemented  religious  innovations  and  odious 
practices?  We  leave  that  for  you  and  your  conscience  to  decide.  However,  those  of  us  who  are  slaves  to  the 
Truth  will  continue  to  condemn  and  dispraise  Mu’awiya  bin  Abi  Sufyan  and  his  cohorts  until  the  Day  of 
Judgment!  This  is  not  because  of  some  personal  grudge  or  emotional  reason,  rather  it  is  because  our  love 
for  Islam  and  its  inherent  purity. 

May  Allah  send  his  choicest  blessings  upon  the  Prophet  Muhammad  and  his  Purified  Progeny  to  the 
number  of  created  things!  May  Allah  send  His  damnation  and  punishment  against  their  enemies  to  the 
number  of  created  things!  May  Allah  join  our  hearts  to  those  who  have  submitted  to  the  Truth  for  its  own 
sake!  May  Allah  distance  our  hearts  from  those  who  have  turned  away  from  the  Truth  for  their  own  sake! 
Amen!  O Allah,  Amen! 


