NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER. 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


\  THIS  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  (this  "Lease'*)  is  made  effective  as  of  the  2Ju  daY  of 

3^^^-  2008,  between  the  undersigned person(s),  whose  name(s)  and  address  appear  on  the  signature  page 
attached  hereto  as  lessor  (hereafter  collectively  called  "Lessor",  whether  one  or  more),  and  GLENCREST 
RESOURCES,  LLC,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company  (hereafter  called  "Lessee"),  whose  address  is  2016  Evans 
Avenue,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76104. 

1 .  Grant.  For  good  and  valuable  consideration  in  hand  paid,  including  services  heretofore  provided 
by  Lessee  and  its  promises  and  agreements  contained  herein,  Lessor  does  hereby  GRANT,  LEASE,  LET  and 
DEMISE  unto  Lessee  exclusively,  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for, 
and  producing  oil,  gas  and  all  other  minerals,  all  of  the  interests  of  Lessor  in  the  following-described  lands  (the 
"Land"),  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  transport,  and  own  said  products  located  thereon  or  therein,  and  to 
inject  gas,  water  and  other  fluids,  and  air  into  subsurface  strata  therein,  said  Land  being  legally  described  as: 

2.  Primary  Term.  Subject  to  the  further  provisions  hereof,  this  Lease  shall  be  in  force  for  a  term  of 
five  (5)  years  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "Primary  Term"),  and  shall  continue  in  force  for  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas 
or  other  minerals  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion 
thereof. 


3.         Royalty.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  are: 


(a)  25%  of  all  oil  (including  distillate  or  condensate  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons)  produced 
and  saved  from  the  Land,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  the  credit  of 
Lessor  into  the  pipeline  to  which  the  well  or  wells  may  be  connected,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no 
such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for 
production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 

(b)  25%  of  the  gross  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  or  any  affiliated  person  or  entity,  directly 
or  indirectly,  upon  the  first  sale  of  gas,  including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substances,  produced  from  the 
Land,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs 
incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that 
Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  for 
production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in 
the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on 
the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and 

(c)  25%  of  the  market  value,  free  of  any  processing  cost,  of  such  minerals  other  than  oil,  gas, 
and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  that  may  be  produced  from  the  Land. 

4.  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  while  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  Lease  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being  sold  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  in 
advance  a  shut-in  royalty  in  an  amount  equal  to  a  $50.00  annual  royalty  per  net  mineral  acre,  with  such  shut-in 
royalty  payment  to  be  made  no  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  following  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  at  annual 
intervals  while  gas  is  not  being  sold.  While  such  shut-in  royalty  payments  are  timely  and  properly  paid,  this  Lease 
shall  be  held  as  a  producing  lease.  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty  under  this  paragraph  may  be  made  by  the  check 
of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto. 

5.  Surface  Use  Prohibition:  Subsurface  Easement.  The  grant  and  lease  hereunder  conveys  no 
right  to  Lessee  or  Lessee's  successors  and  assigns  to  utilize  the  surface  of  the  Land  for  any  purpose.  Subject  to  the 
foregoing,  and  for  the  same  considerations  herein  expressed,  Lessor  hereby  grants  exclusively  unto  Lessee  and  its 
successors  and  assigns  such  rights-of-way,  easements,  and  servitudes  in  and  through  the  subsurface  of  the  Land,  at 
depths  of  not  less  than  two  hundred  feet  (200')  beneath  the  surface,  as  Lessee  or  its  successors  and  assigns  may  from 
time  to  time  desire  for  drilling  well  boreholes  from  surface  locations  not  located  on  the  Land  and  for  casing  and 
otherwise  completing,  maintaining,  operating  and  producing  such  wells  and  using  the  same  for  producing  from  a 


Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 
810006v.l 


Page  1 


well  or  wells  located  on  another  tract  or  tracts,  whether  or  not  unitized  with  the  Land,  such  rights-of-way, 
easements,  and  servitudes  to  continue  for  the  duration  of  the  Lease  and  thereafter  as  hereinafter  provided.  If  Lessee 
shall  assign  to  any  third  party  or  parties  rights  granted  to  Lessee  under  this  paragraph,  the  rights  of  Lessee  shall  not 
thereby  be  diminished,  but  in  such  event  both  Lessee  and  its  assignee  shall  have,  hold,  and  enjoy  said  rights  each 
independently  of  the  other.  The  rights  of  Lessee  and  of  each  assignee  of  Lessee  under  this  paragraph  shall  continue 
after  the  expiration,  surrender,  forfeiture,  or  other  termination  of  the  Lease  for  a  period  of  twenty  (20)  years  from  the 
date  of  the  Lease  and  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  hydrocarbon  substances  are  produced  by  means  of  any 
such  well  and  so  long  thereafter  as  drilling,  re-drilling,  remedial  or  secondary  recovery  operations  are  being 
conducted  with  respect  to  any  such  well,  whichever  period  is  the  longer.  During  the  term  of  the  Lease,  Lessor  shall 
not  grant  any  rights  of  way,  easements  or  servitudes  in  and  to  the  Land  with  respect  to  the  drilling  for  or  the 
production  of  oil,  gas  and  other  hydrocarbon  substances  to  any  other  person,  firm  or  corporation  without  the  prior 
written  consent  of  Lessee. 

6.  Operations.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations"  as  utilized  herein  means 
activities  related  to  any  well  or  wells  situated  on  tracts  pooled  or  unitized  with  the  Land,  and  shall  include,  but  not 
be  limited  to,  access  and  site  preparation,  drilling,  re-drilling,  setting  casing,  perforating,  artificially  stimulating, 
deepening,  plugging  back,  testing,  re-testing,  completing,  re-completing,  re-entering,  working-over,  re-working, 
equipping,  re-equipping,  operating,  repairing  the  well  or  its  production  equipment,  replacing  production  equipment, 
and  any  like  or  similar  operations  performed  by  Lessee,  or  caused  to  be  performed  by  Lessee,  its  successors  and 
assigns,  in  search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  and  the  production  of  oil, 
gas,  or  other  minerals,  whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall 
be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction, 
including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  regulation  of  the  price  or  transportation  of  oil,  gas 
and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that,  in  the  event  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  to  seek  a 
variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  from  any  laws,  rules,  regulations,  or  orders  (which  for  purposes  of  this  paragraph 
shall  include  any  ordinance)  or  other  such  authority  exercised  by  (i)  the  city  or  other  municipality  with  jurisdiction 
over  the  Land  or  this  Lease,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  well  setback  distance  for  gas  drilling  and  production,  or 
(ii)  any  other  governmental  or  quasi-governmental  entity  or  authority  having  jurisdiction  affecting  the  Lease  or  the 
parties  hereto,  then  Lessor  shall  engage  in  such  reasonable  acts  and  execute  and  deliver  such  instruments  and 
documents  Lessee  deems  necessary  or  convenient  in  seeking  such  relief.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  required  by  such 
authority  to  acquire  Lessor's  consent  as  a  prerequisite  to  obtain  such  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief,  Lessor  hereby 
grants  to  Lessee,  and  agrees  that  Lessee's  leasehold  estate  acquired  hereunder  includes,  the  right  to  utilize  this  Lease 
as  Lessor's  consent  and  ratification  of  any  subsequent  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  Lessee  seeks,  without  the 
necessity  of  Lessee  obtaining  any  additional  or  subsequent  consent(s)  from  Lessor.  Lessor  furthermore  agrees  not  to 
execute  documents  or  instruments  or  engage  in  acts  that  would  or  may  diminish  or  adversely  affect  the  relief  Lessee 
is  seeking.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules, 
regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity, 
fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot, 
strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or 
carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee  's  control,  the  Lease 
shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and,  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or 
delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  provisions  or  implied  covenants 
of  the  Lease  when  drilling,  completion,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented  or  delayed. 

8.  Representations  and  Warranties.  This  Lease  is  executed  by  Lessor  without  any  representations 
or  implied  warranties  of  title,  or  otherwise,  except  as  expressly  set  forth  herein.  Lessor  hereby  represents  and 
warrants  unto  Lessee  that,  Lessor  has  not  heretofore  granted,  executed  or  entered  into  any  other  lease,  top  lease,  or 
other  instrument  or  agreement  of  any  kind  whatsoever  concerning  or  affecting  the  mineral  estate  underlying  the 
Land,  and  acknowledges  that  Lessee  is  relying  on  this  representation  in  electing  to  accept  this  Lease.  If  Lessor  owns 
an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  and  bonus  payable  hereunder  shall  be 
reduced  proportionately.  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  past-due  or  delinquent  tax, 
mortgage  or  other  lien  upon  the  Land,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  Lessee  shall  be 
subrogated  to  such  lien  to  the  extent  of  such  payment,  with  the  right  to  enforce  said  lien  and  with  the  right  to  apply 
royalties  accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  the  indebtedness  such  lien  secures. 

9.  Notices.  All  notices  shall  be  deemed  given  and  reports  shall  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent  by 
certified  letter,  properly  addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States  mail,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  at  the 
addresses  shown  on  the  signature  pages  and  to  Lessee  at  the  address  shown  above,  or  such  new  address  as  may  be 
furnished  by  written  notice  to  Lessor  hereunder. 

10.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND 
LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS, 
DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE  FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF 
PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION, 
ATTORNEYS'  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  ON  THE 
LAND  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY 
ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM 
"LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY 
OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT 
CONTRACTORS . 


Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 

S10006v.l 


Page  2 


1 1 .  Lessee's  Right  to  Terminate.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver 
to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  Lease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  the  Land  or  of  any  mineral  or 
horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  hereunder  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

12.  Rework;  Dry  Hole.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease,  oil,  gas,  or  other 
minerals  are  not  being  produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof,  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  are  prosecuted  (whether  on  the  same  or  different  wells)  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  sixty  (60) 
consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  production,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  are  produced  from 
the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof.  If  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  on  the  Land 
or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause  after  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease 
nevertheless  shall  continue  in  full  force  and  effect  as  long  as  additional  drilling  operations  or  reworking  operations 
are  conducted  on  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof,  which  additional  operations  shall  be 
deemed  to  be  had  when  not  more  than  sixty  (60)  days  elapse  between  the  abandonment  of  operations  on  one  well 
and  the  commencement  of  operations  on  another  well  and,  if  production  is  obtained,  this  Lease  shall  continue  as 
long  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  are  produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof, 
and  as  long  thereafter  as  additional  operations,  either  drilling  or  reworking,  are  had  on  the  Land  or  pooled  lands  in 
accordance  with  this  provision.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be 
brought  in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  330  feet  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  offset 
wells  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances.  The  judgment  of  the 
Lessee,  when  not  fraudulently  exercised,  in  carrying  out  the  purpose  of  this  Lease  shall  be  conclusive. 

13.  Pooling.  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  at  its  option,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  and 
without  Lessor's  joinder  or  further  consent,  is  given  the  right  and  power  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land  or  any 
interests  covered  by  this  Lease,  as  to  oil,  gas,  condensate  or  distillate,  or  any  of  them,  or  either  of  them,  with  any 
other  land,  interests,  lease  or  leases,  or  any  of  them,  adjacent  to,  adjoining,  or  located  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of 
the  Land,  when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  to  efficiently  develop  or  operate 
the  Land  in  compliance  with  the  spacing  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  or  other  lawful  authority,  or 
when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  j  udgment  of  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil  and  gas  on  the  Land,  the  pooling  to 
be  into  a  well  unit  or  units  not  exceeding  forty  (40)  acres  for  oil  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%),  and 
not  exceeding  six-hundred-forty  (640)  acres  for  gas  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%),  subject  to  the 
following  sentence  regarding  horizontal  wells,  however,  and  further  provided  that  should  the  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  may  be  created  or 
enlarged  to  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations. 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  stated  herein,  a  unit  for  a  horizontal  well  may  include  (i)  the  amount  of 
acreage  allowed  for  obtaining  a  permit  to  drill  a  well  under  the  spacing  and  density  provisions  in  the  applicable  field 
or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  well-bore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  Rule  86  for  the  length  of 
lateral  actually  utilized  by  Lessee,  or  (ii)  the  amount  of  acreage  allowed  for  obtaining  a  full  production  allowable 
under  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  well-bore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in 
Rule  86  for  the  length  of  lateral  actually  utilized  by  Lessee.  Lessee  may  pool  all,  and  not  less  than  all,  of  the  Land 
or  interests  described  above,  provided  that,  as  to  oil  or  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata,  any  units  formed  need  not 
conform  in  size  or  area  with  the  unit  or  units  into  which  the  Lease  is  pooled  or  combined  as  to  any  other  stratum  or 
strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  The  pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not 
exhaust  the  rights  of  the  Lessee  to  pool  the  Land,  or  any  portion  of  the  Land,  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  execute 
in  writing  and  file  for  record  in  the  county  or  counties  where  the  Land  is  situated  an  instrument  designating  and 
describing  the  pooled  acreage,  which  pooling  and  designation  may  be  accomplished  either  before  or  after  a  well  or 
wells  are  drilled  or  completed  on  the  unit.  The  entire  acreage  so  pooled  into  a  unit  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes, 
except  the  payment  of  royalties,  overriding  royalties  or  payments  out  of  production,  as  if  it  were  included  in  this 
Lease;  and  drilling  or  reworking  operations,  production  of  oil  or  gas,  condensate  or  distillate,  cessation  of 
production,  or  the  existence  of  a  shut-in  gas  well,  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of 
royalties,  as  if  the  operations  were  conducted,  or  the  production  or  cessation  of  production  or  existence  of  a  shut-in 
gas  well  were  on  the  Land,  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  be  located  on  the  actual  Land  itself.  In  lieu  of  the 
royalties,  overriding  royalties  or  payment  out  of  production,  if  any,  specified  in  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  receive  from 
a  unit  only  the  portion  of  the  royalty,  overriding  royalty  or  payment  out  of  production,  if  any,  as  the  amount  of  the 
surface  acreage  of  the  Land  placed  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  surface  acreage  pooled  in  the  particular  unit 
involved.  Shut-in  gas  royalties  with  respect  to  unit  shut-in  gas  wells  shall  be  payable  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  and  in  the  amount  set  forth  in  this  Lease,  Should  any  unit  created  by  the  terms  of  this  Lease  contain  less 
than  the  maximum  number  of  acres  specified  or  allowed,  then  Lessee  may  at  any  later  time,  whether  before  or  after 
production  is  obtained  on  the  unit,  enlarge  the  unit  by  adding  additional  acreage,  but  the  enlarged  unit  shall  in  no 
event  exceed  the  acreage  content  specified  or  allowed.  In  the  event  an  existing  unit  is  enlarged,  Lessee  shall  execute 
and  file  for  record  in  the  county  or  counties  in  which  the  Land  is  located  a  supplemental  designation  and  description 
of  the  land  added  to  the  existing  unit;  provided,  that  if  the  supplemental  designation  and  description  is  not  filed  until 
production  is  obtained  on  the  unit  as  originally  created,  then  and  in  that  event  the  supplemental  designation  and 
description  shall  not  become  effective  until  the  first  day  of  the  calendar  month  next  following  the  filing.  At  any 
time,  for  any  reason,  or  in  the  event  the  well  or  wells  drilled  on  any  unit  shall  fail  to  produce  oil  or  gas,  or  in  the 
event  the  production  from  any  well  or  wells  shall  cease,  Lessee  may  terminate  any  unitized  area.  A  termination  may 
be  accomplished  by  filing  for  record  in  the  county  or  counties  where  the  lands  are  located  proper  instruments 
evidencing  that  termination. 

14.  Assignment.  The  rights  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the 
provisions  of  this  Lease  shall  extend  to  the  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  successors,  and  assigns  of  the  Lessor  and 
Lessee,  but  no  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  Land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to 
enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee  or  impair  the  effectiveness  of  any  payment  previously  made 
by  Lessee.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  the  Land  or  royalties  shall  impair  the  effectiveness  of  any 
payment  previously  made  by  Lessee  or  be  binding  on  Lessee  for  any  purpose  (and  irrespective  of  whether  Lessee 


Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 

810006v.  I 


Page  3 


has  either  actual  or  constructive  knowledge)  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  person  acquiring  any  interest  has 
furnished  Lessee  with  the  instrument  or  instruments  or  certified  copies  of  them,  constituting  the  person's  chain  of 
title  from  the  original  Lessor.  In  the  event  of  an  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  the  breach  of  any 
obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  Lease  or  portion  thereof  who  commits  such 
breach.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such 
royalties  to  the  credit  of  the  deceased  or  the  estate  of  the  deceased  until  such  time  as  Lessee  is  furnished  with  proper 
evidence  of  the  appointment  and  qualification  of  an  executor  or  administrator  of  the  estate,  or  if  there  is  none,  then 
until  Lessee  is  furnished  with  evidence  satisfactory  to  it  as  to  the  heirs  or  devisees  of  the  deceased  and  that  all  debts 
of  the  estate  have  been  paid.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  become  entitled  to  participate  in  the  royalties 
payable  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  said  royalty  jointly  to  such  persons  or,  at  Lessee's  option,  the 
proportionate  portion  of  said  royalty  to  which  each  participant  is  entitled  may  be  paid  or  tendered  to  him  or  her 
separately,  and  payment  or  tender  to  any  participant  of  his  or  her  portion  shall  maintain  this  Lease  as  to  such 
participant. 

15.  Breach.  In  the  event  that  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in 
compliance  with  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach 
hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  such  notice  in  which  to  commence 
compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed.  After  the  discovery  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  in  paying  quantities  on 
the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  or  a  portion  thereof,  Lessee  shall  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  but  in  discharging  this  obligation  it  shall  in  no  event  be  required  to  drill  more  than  one 
well  per  forty  (40)  acres  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one 
well  per  640  acres,  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  ten  percent  (10%),  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and 
capable  of  producing  gas  or  other  minerals  in  paying  quantities. 

16.  Memorandum.  This  Lease  or  a  memorandum  hereof  may  be  recorded  by  Lessee  in  the  official 
property  records  of  the  county  or  counties  in  which  the  Land  is  situated. 

17.  Option.  Lessor,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend 
the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  for  an  additional  five  (5)  years  from  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  which  may  be 
exercised  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor,  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  an  amount  equal  to  the  bonus 
consideration  given  for  this  Lease.  If  such  option  is  exercised,  this  Lease  shall  continue  for  the  additional  period  on 
the  same  terms  and  conditions  then  applicable  to  the  Lease. 

18.  Miscellaneous  Provisions. 

(a)  In  the  event  this  Lease  expires  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land,  Lessee 
shall  upon  request  furnish  Lessor  with  a  written,  recordable  release  covering  all  of  the  Land  or  that  portion  of  the 
Land  to  be  released. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  Lease  negates  the  usual  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee. 

(c)  Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  this  Lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to  be 
considered  in  the  interpretation  or  construction  of  this  Lease.  The  execution  or  ratification  by  Lessor  of  any  division 
order,  gas  contract,  or  any  other  document  will  not  alter  any  provision  of  this  Lease  unless  the  intent  to  do  so  is 
expressly  stated  in  the  document. 

(d)  This  Lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns. 

(e)  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain  insurance 
covering  all  of  its  operations  on  the  Land,  including  any  work  performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors, 
subcontractors,  and  others.  The  policies  shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability,  for  bodily  injury 
and  property  damage,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the  environment, 
including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean-up  and  surface  remediation.  The  coverage  shall  be  in  not  less  than  a 
minimum  amount  of  $2,000,000.00 

19.  Counterpart  Execution.  Executed  signature  pages  from  different  originals  of  this  instrument 
may  be  combined  to  form  a  single  original  document  for  recording  purposes.  This  document  shall  be  binding  upon 
any  party  executing  same,  and  binding  upon  Lessee  by  its  acceptance  hereof. 


Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 

810006v.l 


Page  4 


LESSOR: 


Signed:  yti^—p^  ^^/L   


Name: 


Signed:  ty^yj^f^f,  \^9hJ^j^r^^  

Name: 


ADDRESS: 


5a  3<r  Ra^Pnr  S-V. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

Before       me,       the       undersigned       authority,       on      this       day      personally  appeared 

(Y-Vi»prv^  <MN<j  fTAiAud  Her  toodje^.  > 

to  me  to  be  the  person(s)  whose  name(sjjs/are  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument  and  acknowledged  to  me  that 
he/she/they  executed  the  same  for  the  purposes  and  consideration  therein  expressed. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  seal  of  office  this  2^1     day  of  vJl-{  p\   ,  2008. 


Notary  Public,  State  of . 


0 


My  Commission  Expires: 
(Notary  Seal) 


LINDA  SPARKS 
Notary  Public 
Staia  of  Texas 
Comm.  Expires  09-23-09 


After  recording,  return  to: 

David  Drumm,  Esq. 

Carrington,  Coleman,  Sloman  &  Blumenthal,  LLP 
901  Main  Street,  Suite  5500 
Dallas,  TX  75202 


Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease 
81 0006v.  1 


Page  5 


CARRiNGTON  COLEMAN  SLOMAN  BLUMENTH 
901  MAIN  5500 


DALLAS  TX  75202 

Submitter:  GLENCREST  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$32.00 


D208326533 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  WO 


