Electronically  Recorded 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Official  Public  Records 


2008  Aug  20  03:09  PM 
Fee:  $  36.00 


D208327736 


Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


6  Pages 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RI©WPS3  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  26th  day  of  May.  2008.  by  and  between  Old  Spanish  Oaks,  LLC,  a  Delaware  Limited  Uabtttty 
Corporation  and  Park  Row,  LLC,  a  Delaware  Limited  Liability  Corporation,  whose  address  is  2501  Wdvale  Ave.,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90064,  as 
Lessor,  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION.  LLC  an  Oklahoma  limited  HabHitv  company.  P.O.  Box  18406.  Oklahoma  Cttv.  Oklahoma  73154- 
0406.  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the 
completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee 
the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

ABSTRACT  NO.  A-750  SURVEY  NAME:  Taptey  Holand.  being  4.8729  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Lot  22,  the  west  242  feet  of  Site  22„ 

out  of  the  Great  Southwest  Industrial  District,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and 
bounds  in  that  certain  plat  recorded  in  Volume  389-46,  Page  356,  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

fn  the  County  of    Tarrant  ,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  4.8729    gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may 

hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with 
all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used 
herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises, 
this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the 
above-descnbed  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional 
or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shad  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shad  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  _three(3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as 
long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled 
therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil.  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other 
fquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  _25_%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to 
Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  factfties.  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then 
in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all 
other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  _25_%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad 
valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such 
gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid 
for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  held  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is 
such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on 
hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  walls  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  soM  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shaH 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well 
or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  doHar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this 
lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and 
thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  wel  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by 
Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations 
or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royally  payments  under  this  lease  shaB  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its 
successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or 
tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a 
stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository 
should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder.  Lessor  shaH,  at  Lessee's  request, 
deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry 
hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause, 
including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease 
is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  weB  or  for 
drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after 
completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shal  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as 
long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  teased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder.  Lessee  shaH  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  weR  or 
weds  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shaH  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  weHs  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shaH  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  tends  or  interests, 
as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production, 
whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  simBar  pooling 
authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not 
exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum 
acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  weH  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  weH  spacing  or 
density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the 
terms  "oil  weir  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  weH'  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1 00,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  weH'  means  a  weH  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease 
separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  weH  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the 
gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion*  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the 
horizonta component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder. 
Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations 
anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  ad  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shaH  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  driHing  or  reworking  operations  on  the 
leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage    covered    by    this    lease    and    Included    in    the    untt    bears    to    the    total    gross    acreage    in  the 


Produces  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 


unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder, 
and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to 
conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue 
of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating 
the  date  of  termination,  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any 
part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral 
estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60 
days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any 
time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository, 
either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall 
not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by 
this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this 
lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the 
interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall 
be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized 
herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises 
as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads, 
canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to 
discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the 
leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the 
ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial 
termination  of  mis  lease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less 
than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage 
caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon. 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the 
term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor 
disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay 
shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations 
are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase 
from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming 
effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the 
offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and 
preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in 
the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is 
litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which 
are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to 
royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to 
whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the 
event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  tide,  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest, 
until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

17.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market 
sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease 
payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or 
down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor 
would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction 
based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

EN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  mis  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 

Old  Spanish  Oaks,  LLC 




By:  Brejt  Heron 

As: 


Jrett  Heron 


Park  Row  LLC 


By:  QwtfHer 


2 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS— 

county  of  laAA&tf-  m 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  C\  v     day  of  4  \y 


Nolar/s  commission  expires: 


Notary  Pi 
Notar/i 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  


JAMES  D.  FORREST 

***'  K         Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 


November  10, 2010 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the . 


_day  of. 


,20 


by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  

 a  corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


.day  of. 


20. 


by. 


Notary  Public  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


of 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the  

Book  ,  Page  ,  of  the. 

By  


Clerk  (or  Deputy) 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


.day  of . 


20 


.at 


records  of  this  office. 


o'clock 


_M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


3 


ADDENDUM 
EXHIBIT  A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  dated  May  28,  2008, 
between  BRET  Heron,  as  Lessor,  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION  LLC,  as  Lessee. 

1.        AGREEMENT  SUPERSEDED  ♦  „wh 

The  provisions  of  this  Exhibit  A  supersede  any  provisions  to  the  contrary  contained  in  the  lease  to  which 

this  Exhibit  is  attached. 

2         on,  AND  GAS  ONl.Y  FROM  PRODUCING  FORMATIONS 

Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  lease,  this  lease  covers  and  includes  o.l  and  gas  only 
OncTuding  with  oil  and  gas,  all  constituent  elements  thereof  and  all  ^''^^^^ 
products  of  every  kind  or  character  derived  therefrom  and  produced  therewith  from  the  well bor^ 
mcfuding  sulphur),  and  that  all  minerals  other  than  oil  and  gas  are  excepted  from  this  lease  and  reserved 
by  Lessor.  Solid  minerals,  such  as  iron,  coal,  sand,  gravel,  clay,  uranium  and  sulphur  (apart  from  sulphur 
produced  through  the  well  bore)  are  excluded  from  this  lease. 

At  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  depths  and  formations  100  below 
the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  producing  formation. 

3.  ROYALTY 

It  is  agreed  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary, 
all  oil  gas  orother  proceeds  accruing  to  Lessor  under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction 
for  thell  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  **V**f  J"""?» 
transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  product  Ihereunde, rto  transform  tep™l«« 
into  marketable  form;  however,  any  such  costs  incurred  on  an  unaffiliated  regulated  interstate  or  intrastate 
gTpTp^line  which  results  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  producte  to  receive  a 
better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee  s 
actual  cost  of  such  enhancements.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  !S  less  than,  or  more  than, 
the  price  received  by  Lessee. 


It  is  expr^lya^^dimderstood  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  the  lease,  the  lease 
"ay  bTmaintahted  in  force  solely  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  a  period  not  to  exceed  2 
consecutive  years. 


If  Lessef^Spool,  all  (and  not  just  part)  of  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  shall  be  included  in  a 
pooled  unit. 

6         NO  USE  OF  S1TRFACF.  OR  WATER 

Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  nor  use  any  of  fie  leased 
pZteX  dnlling  on  the  Vurface  or  for  any  other  surface  or  pipeline  operations  such  as  (but  not  limned 


to)  storing  any  equipment,  materials,  or  supplies  related  to  drilling  operations  or  pipelines,  or  for  any 
staging,  housing,  or  transportation  of  personnel.  Any  subsurface  drilling  or  operations  by  Lessee  shall  in 
no  manner  interfere  with  the  surface  or  subsurface  support  of  any  improvements  constructed  or  to  be 
constructed  on  the  Property.  Lessee  shall  not  use  any  water  located  on  or  beneath  the  surface  of  the 
leased  premises  for  drilling,  water  injection,  saltwater  injection,  secondary  recovery,  or  other  operations. 

Lessee  shall  not  transport  gas  of  a  third  party  or  gas  produced  below  the  leased  premises  across  the  leased 
premises  without  a  separate  written  right-of-way  agreement. 

7.  LEGAL  COMPLIANCE 

Lessee  shall  conduct  all  operations  under  this  lease  in  accordance  with  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the 
Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  and  the  municipal  regulations  in  which  the  land  is  located,  and  Lessee 
shall  strictly  observe  and  comply  with  all  local,  state  and  federal  environmental  laws  and  regulations 
dealing  with  its  operations  below  or  relating  to  the  leased  premises. 

8.  INDEMNITY 

Lessee,  at  its  sole  cost  and  expense,  agrees  to  defend,  indemnify,  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  and 
against  any  and  all  actions,  claims,  demands,  causes  of  action,  damages  (including  ,  but  not  limited  to, 
remedial  actions),  fines,  administrative  and  judicial  proceedings,  judgments,  orders,  enforceable  actions, 
expenses  and  costs  of  any  kind  or  character,  including  (but  not  limited  to)  reasonable  attorney  fees, 
arising  out  of  or  in  any  way  connected  with  Lessee's  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  the  land 
with  which  the  leased  premises  are  pooled  or  unitized  In  no  event  shall  Lessee  be  obligated  to  indemnify 
Lessor  against  Lessor 's  own  negligence. 

9.  NO  WARRANTY  OF  TITLE 

The  lease  is  entered  into  by  the  parties  without  any  warranty  of  title  by,  or  recourse  upon,  Lessor 
whatsoever,  not  even  for  the  return  of  the  considerations  paid  for  or  under  mis  lease.  This  lease  shall  be 
subject  to  all  outstanding  liens,  restrictions,  covenants,  easements,  and  other  matters  appearing  of  public 
record  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas.  Lessee  must  satisfy  itself  as  to  title  and  acquire  all  necessary  abstracts 
and  other  title  information  at  its  own  expense. 

1 0.  RIGHT  OF  FIRST  REFUSAL 

Paragraph  1 2  of  the  printed  form  of  the  lease  is  deleted  in  its  entirety. 

1 1 .  SUBSURFACE  EASEMENT 

The  subsurface  easement  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  14  of  the  printed  lease  form  is  not  a  perpetual 
easement  but  shall  last  only  as  long  as  the  term  of  this  lease. 

12       BINDING  EFFECT 

This  lease  shall  be  binding  on  the  parties  hereto  and  their  successors,  assigns,  heirs  and  legal 
representatives. 

LESSEE:  LESSOR: 


Henry  J.  Hood,  Senior  Vice  President-  Land  and 
Legal  &  General  Counsel  of  Chesapeake 
Exploration,  L.L.C. 


STATE  OF  OKLAHOMA  ) 

)  § 

COUNTY  OF  OKLAHOMA  ) 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  /  0  day  of  iAs<A-^jL/y/<*  2008, 
by  Henry  J.  Hood,  as  Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  and  Legal  &  General  Counsel  of  Chesapeake 
Exploration,  L.L.C.  on  behalf  of  said  limited  liability  company. 

My  Commission  Expires:    T^/7~7/  Norar/Public 


JANA  M.  GATHERS 


Notary  Public 
State  of  Oklahoma 
;  C*mml»sf on  #  0700 J999  Expires  04/23/11 


Record  &  Return  to: 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 


