NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(NO  SURFACE  USE) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  Is  made  this  11th  day  of  August,  2008,  by  and  between  Malcolm  B.  Street,  Jr.  and  wife,  Mary  Lou  Street,  whose  address  Is,  1101 
Hidden  Road,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76107  as  Lessor  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO.,  L.L.C.,  201  Main  Street  Suite  1455,  Fort  Worth,  TX.  76102,  as  Lessee  All  printed 
portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by 
Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 


SEE  EXHIBIT  A  FOR  PROPERTY  DESCRIPTION  AND  SPECIAL  PROVISIONS 

in  the  county  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  .8593  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances 
produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as 
well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter 
owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining 
the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as 
oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained 
in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid 
hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  26%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price 
then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of 
similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from 
the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same 
field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the 
date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom 
is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of 
90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then 
covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter 
on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this 
lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no 
shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall 
render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor'  a  addreas  above  or  its 
successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in 
currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository 
or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any 
reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as 
depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if 
all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or 
the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences 
operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or 
restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive 
days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated 
drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or 
all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose 
of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic 
feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the 
net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by 
Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In 
making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record 
a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on 
any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral 
estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


B.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and 
the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so 
released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be 
proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services, 
material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by 
inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within 
Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term 
hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted. 

1 1 .  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated 
and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a 
reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

12.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well 
bore  easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  {along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which 
are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty 
or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  (and  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

13.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  two  years  from 
the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  Twenty  Thousand  dollars  {$20,000.00)  per  acre  consideration,  terms  and 
conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 

14.  NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  TO  THE  CONTRARY  IN  THIS  LEASE,  LESSEE  AGREES  THERE  SHALL  BE  NO  DRILLING  OR 
SURFACE  OPERATIONS  ON  SAID  PROPERTY  WHATSOEVER. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  tbe  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market 
sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease 
payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or 
down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor 
would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction 
based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

SPECIAL  PROVISIONS:  SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  ATTACHED  HERETO  AND  MADE  PART  OF 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  Iffi^  day  of  AtJ^Q?4T20D8,  by  Malcolm  B.  Street  Jr.,  as  Lessors). 


^SANDRA  M.  HARWEUu 
Notary  Public 
STATE  OF  TEXAS 
JJ£mn^xP.  01/23/2010 


Public  Notary,  State  of  Texas 


Sandra  M.  /-faruw^/ 


Printed  Name 


{SEAL) 


0ll73/2alO 


Commission  Expires 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 
This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


iz  , 


day  of  (M/JaA^     .  2008,  by  Mary  Lou  Street,  as  Lessor(s). 


EMMA  J.  WYATT 
£ *-Wb;i  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
\*i\jPSJj>£     My  Commission  Expires 
June  11,2012 


mm 


Printed  Name 


Commission  Expires 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the  

Book  _  ,  Page  ,  of  the . 


.  day  of . 


20 


at 


.o'clock  M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


records  of  this  office. 


By. 


Clerk 


EXHIBIT  "A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Paid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (No 
Surface  Use)  dated  the  11th  day  of  August,  2008,  by  and  between  Malcolm  B. 
Street  Jr.,  and  wife,  Mary  Lou  Street,  as  Lessor,  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO., 
L.L.C.,  as  Lessee. 


.8593  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  E.  Crockett  Survey,  A-259.  Further 
described  as  Lot  4,  Block  35,  Rivercrest,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  plat  recorded  In  Volume  388-27,  Page  289, 
Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County.  Also  being  the  same  .8593  acres  of  land,  more  or 
less,  described  in  that  General  Warranty  Deed  with  Vendor's  Lien  by  Michael  A. 
Loney  and  Carol  A.  Loney  to  Malcolm  B.  Street,  Jr.  and  wife,  Mary  Lou  Street 
recorded  in  document  number  D204160095,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

Addendum  Provisions  Govern:  In  the  event  that  any  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Exhibit  A  conflict 
with  any  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  the  Printed  Form  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (the  Printed  Form  to  which 
this  Exhibit  A  is  attached),  then  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Exhibit  A  shall  control  and  take 
precedence,  as  if  the  text  in  the  Printed  Form  was  stricken  and  deleted.  The  Printed  Form  and  Exhibit  "A" 
shall  be  referred  to  as  the  "Lease."  The  land  referred  to  in  this  Lease  may  sometimes  be  called  the 
Leased  Premises^  in  this  Exhibit  A. 

Royalty;  Notwithstanding  any  provision  to  the  contrary,  the  royalty  on  gas  shall  be  computed  on  the  gross 
proceeds  received  by  the  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  Lessee  or  any  affiliate  of  Lessee  shall  not 
make  any  deduction  for,  and  shall  bear  all  costs  and  expenses  of  producing,  gathering,  storing, 
separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  marketing,  marketing  fees  and 
otherwise  making  the  production  ready  for  sale,  transportation  or  use  (collectively  the  "post  production 
expenses").  Lessor's  proportionate  share  of  any  costs  charged  by  a  non-affiliated  third-party  which 
results  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may 
be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production,  so  long  as  such  costs  are  actually  incurred  and  paid  by 
the  Lessee  for  such  enhancements.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than 
the  price  received  by  Lessee.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  are  to  be 
fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as  surplusage  under  the  holding  set  forth  in 
Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank,  939  S.W.2d  118  (Tex.  1996). 

No  Warranty  of  Title:  This  Lease  is  made  with  no  warranty.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee 
acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient 
investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Leased  Premises  for  the  basis  of  the  payment  of  bonus. 
In  no  event  shall  Lessor  be  required  to  refund  to  Lessee  any  bonus  paid. 

INDEMNITY:  TO  THE  FULLEST  EXTENT  PERMITTED  BY  APPLICABLE  LAW,  LESSEE  AGREES  TO 
INDEMNIFY,  PROTECT,  DEFEND,  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  ITS  LEGAL 
REPRESENTATIVES,  AGENTS,  AFFILIATED  COMPANIES,  TRUSTEES,  DIRECTORS,  OFFICERS, 
STOCKHOLDERS,  PARTNERS,  EMPLOYEES,  HEIRS,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS 
(COLLECTIVELY,  "INDEMNITEES"!  FOR,  FROM,  AND  AGAINST  ANY  AND  ALL  CLAIMS,  LOSSES, 
DAMAGES,  LIABILITIES,  LIENS,  FINES,  PENALTIES,  CAUSES  OF  ACTION,  SUITS,  CHARGES, 
JUDGMENTS,  ADMINISTRATIVE  ORDERS,  REMEDIATION  REQUIREMENTS,  AND  ENFORCEMENT 
ACTIONS  OF  ANY  KIND,  AND  ALL  COSTS  AND  EXPENSES  INCURRED  IN  CONNECTION 
THEREWITH  (INCLUDING,  BUT  NOT  LIMITED  TO,  REASONABLE  ATTORNEYS'  FEES  AND 
EXPENSES  INCURRED  BY  LESSOR  IN  ENFORCING  THIS  INDEMNITY)  OF  ANY  NATURE,  KIND,  OR 
DESCRIPTION  OF  ANY  PERSON  OR  ENTITY,  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY  ARISING  OUT  OF, 
CAUSED  BY,  OR  RESULTING  FROM  (IN  WHOLE  OR  IN  PART)  THIS  LEASE,  OR  ANY  ACT  OR 
OMISSIONS  OF  LESSEE,  ANY  SUBCONTRACTOR,  ANYONE  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY 
EMPLOYED  BY  THEM,  OR  ANYONE  THAT  THEY  CONTROL  OR  EXERCISE  CONTROL  OVER 
{COLLECTIVELY,  "LIABILITIES").  LESSEE  SHALL  PROMPTLY  ADVISE  LESSOR  IN  WRITING  OF 
ANY  ACTION,  ADMINISTRATIVE  OR  LEGAL  PROCEEDING,  OR  INVESTIGATION  TO  WHICH  THIS 
INDEMNIFICATION  MAY  APPLY,  AND  LESSEE,  AT  LESSEE'S  EXPENSE,  SHALL  ASSUME  ON 
BEHALF  OF  LESSOR  (AND  THE  OTHER  INDEMNITEES)  AND  CONDUCT  WITH  DUE  DILIGENCE 
AND  IN  GOOD  FAITH  THE  DEFENSES  THEREOF;  PROVIDED,  HOWEVER,  THAT  ANY  INDEMNITEE 
SHALL  HAVE  THE  RIGHT,  AT  ITS  OPTION,  TO  BE  REPRESENTED  THEREIN  BY  ADVISORY 
COUNSEL  OF  ITS  OWN  SELECTION  AND  AT  ITS  OWN  EXPENSE.  THIS  INDEMNIFICATION  SHALL 
NOT  BE  LIMITED  TO  DAMAGES,  COMPENSATION,  OR  BENEFITS  PAYABLE  UNDER  INSURANCE 
POLICIES,  WORKERS'  COMPENSATION  ACTS,  DISABILITY  BENEFIT  ACTS,  OR  OTHER 
EMPLOYEES'  BENEFIT  ACTS.  THIS  INDEMNITY  IS  INTENDED  TO  ALLOCATE  RESPONSIBILITY 
BETWEEN  LESSOR  AND  LESSEE,  AMONG  OTHER  THINGS,  AS  CONTEMPLATED  BY  SECTION 
107(E)(1)  OF  CERCLA  AND  ANY  SUCCESSOR  FEDERAL  STATUTE,  RULE,  OR  REGULATION  OR 
COMPARABLE  STATE  STATUTE,  RULE,  OR  REGULATION. 

Pooling:  Notwithstanding  any  provision  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  it  is  agreed  that  should  Lessee 
BXtuuiby  II le  uption  to  puuJ.ui  'AjiiiLiiiie  the  Leased  Premises  into  a  pooled  unit  with  other  land  orJeases 


PROPERTY  DESCRIPTION 


Page  1  of 3 


as  herein  provided,  then  such  unit  will  include  the  entire  Leased  Premises  covered  and  not  a  portion 
thereof. 

Limited  to  Hydrocarbons:  It  is  also  expressly  understood  that  this  Lease  covers  only  oil,  gas,  and  other 
hydrocarbon  substances,  including  sulfur  produced  in  conjunction  therewith,  in  and  under  the  Leased 
Premises,  and  that  accordingly  all  other  associated  substances  and  minerals  are  excepted  from  the  terms 
and  provisions  of  this  Lease  and  reserved  to  Lessor. 

Shut-In  Royalty  Clause  Limitations:  Notwithstanding  any  provision  contained  herein  to  the  contrary  after 
the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
royalty  payments,  as  provided  heretofore,  for  any  one  shut-in  period  of  more  than  two  (2)  years. 

Depth  Limitations/Horizontal  Severance:  If  this  Lease  has  not  previously  terminated  pursuant  to  some 
other  provision  thereof,  then  two  (2)  years  after  the  end  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  this  Lease  shall 
automatically  expire  as  to  all  depths  lying  below  the  deepest  producing  formation  in  any  well  located  on 
the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  Lessee  shall  then  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  a 
recordable  release  of  any  and  all  interests  hereunder  below  the  effective  depth  of  this  Lease  as  provided 
above. 

No  Surface:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  agrees  there  shall  be  no 
drilling  or  surface  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises  whatsoever,  for  any  reason,  including  without 
limitation,  the  right  to  enter  upon  the  Leased  Premises  for  any  reason  for  the  exploration,  development, 
removal,  storage,  and/or  transportation  of  oil  and  gas  and  the  right  to  place  or  maintain  any  structures, 
improvements,  equipment,  or  pipelines  in  or  under  the  Leased  Premises.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing, 
such  restriction  and  limitation  on  the  use  of  the  surface  of  the  Leased  Premises  will  not  prohibit 
underground,  slant,  directional,  or  horizontal  drilling  under  the  Leased  Premises  that  begins  and  is 
conducted  from  the  surface  of  land  other  than  the  Leased  Premises  provided  that  such  drilling  activities  at 
all  times  are  sufficiently  below  the  surface  of  the  Leased  Premises  as  to  not  interfere  with  or  disturb  in  any 
manner  the  present  or  future  use  of  the  surface  of  the  Leased  Premises,  but  in  no  event  shall  such 
subsurface  drilling  be  done  at  depths  less  than  two  hundred  (200)  feet  below  the  surface  of  the  Leased 
Premises. 

Noise:  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  within  one  (1)  mile  of  the  Leased  Premises 
during  and  following  the  drilling  and  completion  of  all  wells  shall  be  kept  to  the  minimum  reasonably 
possible,  taking  into  consideration  all  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas 
industry,  including  but  not  limited  to  encompassing  the  drill  site  in  protective  sound  barriers  commonly 
known  as  sound  blankets  to  a  height  consistent  with  industry  practice.  Lessee  will  require  any  gathering 
company  with  whom  it  contracts  to  gather  gas  produced  from  the  Lease  to  the  same  noise  abatement 
standards  set  forth  by  this  paragraph.  Further,  Lessee  shall  at  all  times  comply  with  any  and  all 
applicable  ordinances  of  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  regarding  Lessee's  operations. 

Hidden  Road  and  Hidden  Lane:  It  is  expressly  understood  that  the  Lessee,  its  employees,  agents, 
partners,  servants,  invitees,  contractors  (independent  or  otherwise),  and  any  other  person  acting  under 
their  direction  and/or  control,  or  under  the  direction  and/or  control  of  the  independent  contractors  of  any  of 
the  foregoing  persons  and/or  entities,  shall  not  use  Hidden  Road  and/or  Hidden  Lane  (or  any  streets 
intersecting  said  streets)  for  any  purpose.  All  access  to  the  drilling  site  to  be  used  for  the  development  for 
minerals  under  this  Lease  shall  be  off  of  White  Settlement  Road.  In  this  regard,  Lessee  shall  use  all 
reasonable  efforts  to  inform  its  employees,  agents,  partners,  servants,  invitees,  contractors  (independent 
or  otherwise),  and  any  other  person  acting  under  their  direction  and/or  control,  or  under  the  direction 
and/or  control  of  the  independent  contractors  of  any  of  the  foregoing  persons  and/or  entities,  of  this 
prohibition. 

Well  Siteg:  Lessee  shall  drill  no  well  under  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  which  has  a 
surface  hole  location  closer  to  the  Leased  Premises  than  the  proposed  Rivercrest  R3H  well.  The  NAD  27 
coordinates  of  the  Rivercrest  R3H  surface  hole  location  are  32.75217410  degrees  North  latitude,  and 
97.39264587  degrees  West  longitude. 

Pipelines:  No  pipelines  shall  be  located  on  Hidden  Road,  Hidden  Lane,  or  any  street  intersecting  the 
foregoing  streets,  or  on  any  residential  lot  in  the  plat  attached  to  this  Exhibit. 

Subordination:  The  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  all  bonus  payments,  royalties,  and  delay  rentals  due 
under  the  Lease  without  seeking  a  subordination  or  other  mortgage  company  approval  so  long  as  the 
Leased  Premises  is  not  located  directly  above  the  actual  wellbore. 

Royalty  Payments:  With  respect  to  each  well  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  on  land  pooled  therewith,  initial 
royalty  payments  for  oil  and/or  gas  shall  be  made  on  or  before  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  following 
the  month  of  first  (1st)  production.  Thereafter,  all  royalties  which  are  required  to  be  paid  hereunder  to 
Lessor  shall  be  due  and  payable  in  the  following  manner:  Royalty  on  oil  shall  be  due  and  payable  on  or 
before  the  end  of  the  first  (1st)  calendar  month  following  the  month  of  production,  and  royalty  on  gas  shall 
be  due  and  payable  on  or  before  the  end  of  the  second  (2nd)  calendar  month  following  the  month  of 
production. 

Parties  Bound:  All  rights,  title,  and  interests  of  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  (the  "Parties")  in  and  to  the  Lease 
shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of  and  be  binding  upon  the  Parties,  and  their  respective  heirs,  executors, 
administrators,  successors,  and  assigns. 


Initials 


Page  2  of 3 


Compliance  with  Environmental  and  Other  Laws:  Lessor  agrees  to  comply  with  all  federal,  state,  and 
local  laws  and  regulations — including  any  city  ordinances — that  apply  to  its  operations  on  the  Property. 
Lessee  agrees  not  to  allow,  and  to  cause  its  employees,  agents,  contractors,  and  any  other  person 
occupying  or  present  on  the  Property,  not  to  allow,  the  Release  of  any  hazardous  material  on,  onto,  or 
from  the  Property  that  could  result  in:  (i)  a  violation  of  any  Environmental  Law  or  in  the  creation  of  liability 
or  obligations,  including  without  limitation,  notification,  deed  recordation,  or  remediation,  under  any 
Environmental  Law,  or  (ii)  a  diminution  in  value  of  the  Property.  Lessee  further  agrees  not  to  handle,  use, 
or  otherwise  manage,  and  to  cause  its  employees,  agents,  contractors,  and  any  other  person  occupying 
or  present  on  the  Property  not  to  handle,  use,  or  otherwise  manage,  any  Hazardous  Material  in  violation 
of  any  Environmental  Laws  or  in  any  but  a  reasonable  and  prudent  manner  so  as  to  prevent  the  Release 
or  threat  of  Release  of  any  Hazardous  Material  on,  onto,  or  from  the  Property.  For  purposes  of  this 
provision,  "Property"  means  the  Leased  Premises,  surface  and  subsurface,  and  all  property  located 
thereon  or  therein.  "Environmental  Laws"  means  applicable  federal,  state,  and  local  laws,  including 
statutes,  regulations  and  orders,  ordinances,  and  common  law,  relating  to  protection  of  the  public  health, 
welfare,  and  the  environment,  including  without  limitation,  those  laws  relating  to  storage,  handling,  and 
use  of  chemicals  and  other  hazardous  materials,  those  relating  to  the  generation,  processing,  treatment, 
storage,  transport,  disposal,  or  other  management  of  waste  materials  of  any  kind,  and  those  relating  to 
the  protection  of  environmentally  sensitive  areas.  "Release"  means  depositing,  spilling,  leaking,  pumping, 
pouring,  emitting,  emptying,  discharging,  injecting,  escaping,  leaching,  dumping,  or  disposing. 
Additionally,  upon  receiving  any  notice  regarding  the  violation  of  any  Environmental  Laws,  Lessee  will 
forward  a  copy  to  Lessor  by  certified  mail  within  thirty  (30)  days. 

Notification  of  Operations:  Upon  written  request  from  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  advise  Lessor  in  writing  as  to 
the  location  of  each  well  drilled  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  on  property  pooled  with  the  Leased  Premises 
on  or  before  seven  (7)  days  after  commencement  of  operations  (or  within  seven  [7]  days  of  the  date  of 
this  Lease  for  operations  commenced  prior  to  the  date  of  the  Lease),  and  shall  advise  Lessor  in  writing  as 
to  the  date  of  the  completion  or  abandonment  of  each  well  drilled  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  such 
completion  or  abandonment.  Lessee  agrees  to  furnish  Lessor  with  all  drilling,  and  production  data, 
reports,  title  opinions  regarding  the  Leased  Premises,  and  information  when  specifically  requested  by  the 
Lessor.  Lessee  agrees  that  it  will  provide  a  copy  of  this  Lease  or  a  Memorandum  thereof  as  it  is  recorded 
in  the  Official  Public  Records  of  Tarrant  County  immediately  following  such  recording. 

Right  to  Review  Records:  Lessor  shall  have  the  right  to  review  on  an  annual  basis  (during  normal 
business  hours)  all  of  Lessee's  production  and  royalty  payment  records  only  to  the  extent  such  records 
pertain  to  its  operations  under  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  Such  right  shall  be 
exercised  by  Lessor  providing  written  notice  to  Lessee. 

Miscellaneous:  Lessee's  obligations  to  pay  money  to  Lessor  pursuant  to  the  Lease  shall  be  performed  at 
the  address  of  Lessor.  Nothing  in  the  Lease  negates  the  usual  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee. 
Section  headings  are  used  in  the  Lease  for  convenience  only,  and  are  not  to  be  considered  in  the 
construction  or  interpretation  of  the  Lease.  The  execution  and  ratification  of  any  division  order,  gas 
contract,  or  any  other  document  will  not  alter  any  provision  of  the  Lease. 


Initials 


Page  3  of 3 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 
301  COMMERCE  ST  STE  600 


FT  WORTH  TX  76102 

Submitter:  CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORPORATION 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$36.00 


D208328729 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MC 


