Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Aug  27  01 :42  PM 


D208335849 

Fee:  $  36.00 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDE^^—  p  AR£  A°M^PtifcoN,  YOlF^AY  REMOVE  OR 

STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  lOTQgMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER. 


NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  day  of  ft  ^S**^?  2008.  between  Viney  Polite 
Chandler,  Lessor,  whose  address  is  4243  Clear  Lake  Cir,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76109,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose 
address  is  810  Houston  Street,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  Lease  were  prepared  by 
Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1  ■  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  this  Lease,  and  the  covenants  herein 
contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  land  described  on  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto 
(the  "leased  premises")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 
reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas. 
For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent 
elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well 
as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  The  leased 
premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or 
accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  In  the  event  Lessor  owns  any  additional  acreage  than  that  for  which  bonus 
was  originally  paid,  Lessee  shall  pay  additional  bonus  at  a  rate  per  acre  not  less  than  the  rate  per  acre  on  which  bonus  was 
originally  paid  when  this  Lease  was  acquired.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  on  Schedule  I  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term.  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  term"),  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or 
from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof 

3.  Royalty,  (a)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee 
to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall 
be  twenty-six  percent  (26%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's 
credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 
and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-six  percent 
(26%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate  part  of 
ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field 
(or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing 
price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which 
Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in 
paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well 
or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A 
well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of 
ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then 
Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  men  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of 
said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells 
are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being 
maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such 
operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after 
die  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  mis  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in 
royalty  for  more  than  a  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

(b)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a 
processing  plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon 
the  higher  of  the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based 
upon  the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products. 
Lessor's  royalty  will  never  be  charged  with  any  part  of  Lessee's  direct  cost  of  producing  or  storage.  Except  for 
nonaffiliated  third-party  charges  incurred  by  Lessee  in  an  arm's  length  transaction,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's 
royalty  bear  any  part  of  post-production  costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  separation, 
delivery,  transportation,  manufacture,  processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of 
any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  greater  man  or  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffiliates,  it  being 
the  intent  that  Lessor  receive  as  royalty  twenty-six  percent  (26%)  of  the  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  gas  received  by  Lessee. 


As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than 
ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  man  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee, 
more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

(c)  The  receipt  by  Lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to 
Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee  will  at  all  time  hold  the 
proceeds  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a 
purchaser  of  production  from  the  Land  or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the  Land,  Lessee  will  remain 
liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest  if  not  timely  paid. 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  by  check  or  by  draft. 

5.  Continuous  Drilling  Ohli^ion^  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (a 
"dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities) 
permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  6  or  the 
action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional 
well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  one 
hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days 
after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not 
otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such 
operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in 
the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  die  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to 
protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided 
herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or 
interests  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered 
by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do 
so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil 
well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%),  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  four  hundred  twenty  (420)  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  often  percent  (10%);  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well" 
shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  die  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment; 
and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of 
first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's 
acreage  shall  be  included.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  mat  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or  more 
instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental 
authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and 
stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such 
revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted 
accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination. 
Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  Partial  Inferegfrg  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate 
in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


2 


8.  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise 
transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder 
shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns;  provided,  however,  if 
Lessee  is  to  assign  any  part  of  this  Lease  it  shall  give  written  notice  to  the  then  president  of  the  Wiilow  Lake  Owners 
Association  at  least  thirty  (30)  before  doing  so.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  thirty 
(30)  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents 
establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  reasonable  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification 
requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  Except  as  otherwise  stated  herein,  if  Lessee  transfers  its 
interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the 
transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not 
affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be 
divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Release  and  Vertical  Push  Clause.  Lessee  may  deliver  to  Lessor  in  recordable  form  or  file  of  record  a  written 
release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  interest  in  all  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and 
shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  In  any  event,  upon 
termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  within  forty-five 
(45)  days.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the 
primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  mis  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all 
rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  either  (1)  the  deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased 
premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  or 
capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  teased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is  the  deepest; 
provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  mis  Lease 
shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  operations. 

10.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the 
surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure,  pipeline  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (including  but  not  limited 
to  geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the  leased  premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  the  leased  premises.  Lessee 
shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced 
from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood 
streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  any  lands  pooled  therewith  or  otherwise. 

11.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of 
wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in 
the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill 
sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non- 
electric-powered equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by 
installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

12.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or 
implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of 
wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or 
orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or 
other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take 
or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate 
because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the 
term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling, 
production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

13.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with 
their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties'*),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of 
action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought, 
including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers, 
employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the 
leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  she  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of 
any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee. 
Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties 
against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death), 
costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any  theory  including  tort, 
contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  including  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to 
environmental  hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related 
to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way  related  to 
Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or 
operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that 
may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other 
act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests, 
invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to 
be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided 


3 


above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above.  EXCEPT 
AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR 
LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND 
WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING 
CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING 
THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE  INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT, 
CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 

14.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

15  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral 
estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by 
statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By 
acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted 
sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

16.  Top  Leasing  Permitted.  There  shall  be  no  prohibition  or  limitation  on  top  leasing. 

17.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable. 

18.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions 
herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 
enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  mat  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so 
determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  mis  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine, 
feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

19-  Royalty  Due.  Accounting  and  payment  to  Lessor  of  royalties  from  the  production  of  oil  and  gas  herein  provided 
shall  commence  no  later  man  One  Hundred  Twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of  first  production  as  pursuant  to  Section 
91.402;  Subchapter  J.  "Payment  for  Proceeds  of  Sale"  of  Texas  Natural  Resource  Code,  Oil  and  Gas.  First  production  for 
a  gas  well  shall  be  defined  as  the  date  of  first  sale  of  gas  and  for  an  oil  well  the  date  oil  is  first  produced,  other  than  for 
testing  purposes.  Thereafter  unless  otherwise  specifically  provided  herein,  all  accountings  and  payments  of  royalties  shall 
be  made  on  or  before  the  end  of  the  second  calendar  month  following  the  calendar  month  in  which  the  production 
occurred.  Unless  otherwise  herein  expressly  provided,  any  royalties  or  other  payments  provided  for  in  this  lease  which 
are  suspended  or  not  paid  to  Lessor  within  the  time  period  specified  therefore  shall  accrue  interest  at  the  rate  of  twelve 
percent  (12%)  per  annum,  from  the  due  date  until  paid.  Acceptance  by  Lessor,  its  successors,  agents  or  assigns  of 
royalties  which  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  or  recover  any  and  all  interest  due 
thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof,  unless  the  written  acceptance  or  acknowledgment  by  Lessor  to  Lessee  expressly  so 
provides.  Any  tender  or  payment  to  Lessor  of  a  sum  less  than  the  total  amount  due  to  Lessor  hereunder  which  is  made  or 
intended  to  be  made  as  an  offer  of  settlement  or  accord  by  or  on  behalf  of  Lessee,  its  agents,  successors  or  assigns,  must 
be  accompanied  by  a  Notice. 

20.  Amendment  and  Division  Orders.  The  provisions  contained  herein  regarding  acreage  covered  by  this  lease 
which  shall  be  held  by  drilling  operations  on  or  production  from  any  pooled  unit  or  units  shall  not  be  altered  or  amended 
by  any  pooling  unitization  or  like  agreement  or  instrument,  or  any  amendment  thereto  or  ratification  or  acknowledgment 
thereof,  unless  the  same  shall  be  specifically  designated  as  an  amendment  of  such  paragraph  for  such  purpose.  It  is 
further  agreed  that  neither  this  lease  nor  any  terms  or  provisions  hereof  shall  be  altered,  amended,  extended  or  ratified  by 
any  division  order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  his  successors,  agents,  or  assigns.  If  Lessee  shall  require  the 
execution  of  a  division  Order  for  payment  of  royalty  payable  under  this  lease,  then  the  only  form  of  Division  Order 
permitted  for  Lessee's  use  shall  be  such  form  promulgated  by  the  State  of  Texas  and  set  forth  in  Section  91 .402(d),  of  the 
Texas  Natural  Resource  Code  as  amended  from  time  to  time.  Transfer  Orders,  if  required,  shall  be  solely  for  the  purpose 
of  confirming  the  interest  transferred  by  Lessor.  In  the  event  of  production,  all  division  orders  prepared  by  Lessee  and  its 
assigns  shall  eliminate  all  references  to  ratification  of  Lessee's  acts,  ratification  of  the  unit  and  ratification  of  gas  or  oil 
purchase  contracts.  If  such  statements  are  contained  therein,  such  ratifications  are  void  and  of  no  effect.  Any  amendment, 
alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  lease,  or  of  any  term  or  provision  of  this  lease,  shall  be  made  only  by  an 
instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the 
proposed  change  or  modification  thereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against  whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration, 
extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced,  and  any  purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so 
drafted  shall  be  of  no  force  or  effect. 

21.  Provisions  and  Covenants.  All  of  the  provisions  of  mis  lease  constitute  covenants  and  not  powers  with  or 
without  a  coupled  interest.  All  such  provisions  shall  be  enforced  as  a  contract.  Any  violation  of  the  provisions  shall 
constitute  a  breach  of  covenant  for  which  damages  may  accrue. 

22.  Dispute  Resolution.  In  the  event  of  a  dispute  under  this  Lease,  the  parties  agree  to  attempt  to  resolve  the  dispute 
through  good  faith  mediation  to  be  held  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


4 


23.  Option  to  Extend  Lease:  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an 
additional  two  (2)  years  from  the  expiration  of  the  original  primary  term  hereof  This  option  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
by  paying  the  sum  of  Fifteen  Thousand  Dollars  ($15,000.00)  per  net  mineral  acre  to  Lessor.  This  payment  shall  be  based 
upon  the  number  of  net  mineral  acres  then  covered  by  this  lease  and  not  at  such  time  being  maintained  by  other  provisions 
hereof.  This  payment  may  be  made  by  the  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  Lessor  at  any  time  during  the 
original  primary  term  hereof.  If,  at  the  time  this  payment  is  made,  various  parties  are  entitled  to  specific  amounts 
according  to  Lessee's  records,  this  payment  may  be  divided  between  said  parties  and  paid  in  the  same  proportion.  Should 
mis  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided,  it  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes  as  though  this  lease  originally  provided 
for  a  primary  term  of  Five  (5)  years.  In  the  event  this  lease  is  being  maintained  by  any  provisions  hereof  at  the  expiration 
of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  have  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  this  lease  ceases  to  be  so  maintained 
within  which  to  exercise  this  option. 

24.  Memorandum  of  Oil.  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease:  Lessor  and  Lessee  hereby  agree  that  this  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral 
Lease  may  be  placed  of  record  by  filing  a  Memorandum  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  providing  for  the  term  hereof  and 
a  description  of  the  lands  covered  hereby. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR/S: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the    ~^      day  of  ftu~ju-sA—  ,  2008,  by  Viney  Polite  Chandler. 


jgte&       JOHN  M.  BURROSS 

I  NwafVPuWia  State  of  Texas 


%fif^M      My  Commission  Expires 


April  04,  2012 


(V\  fe^ 


Noftry  Public,  State  of  Texas 


Exhibit  "A' 


Block  8,  LotS 

Willow  Lake  Addition 

City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas 

0.1330  acres,  more  or  less 


6 


