International  Journal  of  Electronics  and 
Communication  Engineering  (UECE) 
ISSN  2278-9901 

Vol.  2,  Issue  3,  July  2013, 111-116 
© IASET 


International  Academy  of  Science, 
Engineering  and  Technology 


IASET 


( 'omitft  i  nj"  Hew  jrt  hers;  NurCuriiiH.  Innovatiuns 


BER  PERFORMANCE  ANALYSIS  OF  OFDM  IN  COGNITIVE  RADIO  NETWORK  IN 

RAYLEIGH  FADING  CHANNEL 

SONALI  GUPTA  &  ARUN  KUMAR 


Orthogonal  frequency  division  multiplexing  (OFDM)  now  a  day  is  becoming  a  popular  modulation  technique  for 
cognitive  radio  networks  (CRN).  It  is  only  because  it  can  provide  large  data  rates  and  is  sufficiently  robust  in  the  face  of 
radio  channel  impairments.  Digital  modulation  techniques  provide  efficient  evolution  for  our  wireless  mobile 
communications  by  increasing  the  capacity,  speed  and  quality  of  a  wireless  networks.  In  this  paper,  we  concentrate  on 
digital  modulation  schemes,  such  as  QPSK  and  BPSK  over  an  Rayleigh  fading  channel  to  analyze  the  performance  of  an 
OFDM  system  in  terms  of  bit  error  rate  (BER).  Inter  carrier  interference  (ICI)  is  the  major  drawback  of  OFDM.  We  have 
chosen  pulse  shaping  schemes,  improved  sine  power  pulses  and  raised  cosine  filter  for  ICI  cancelation.  All  simulation 
work  is  done  using  MATLAB  and  results  shows  improvement  in  BER  when  ICI  cancelation  schemes  are  applied. 

KEYWORDS:  Binary  Phase  Shift  Keying  (BPSK),  Cognitive  Radio  Network  (CRN),  Inter  Carrier  Interference  (ICI), 
OFDM,  Rayleigh  Fading,  Quadrature  Phase  Shift  Keying  (QPSK) 


Wireless  technology  is  embedded  in  our  daily  routine  life.  These  devices  use  a  finite  amount  of  radio  spectrum. 
As  the  number  of  devices  increase,  they  compete  for  bandwidth  and  they  have  to  face  bandwidth  scarcity  problem. 
Moreover,  traditional  fixed  spectrum  allocation  policy  can  no  longer  meet  the  needs  and  services  of  the  wireless  users. 
According  to  Federal  Communications  Commission  (FCC),  temporal  and  geographical  variations  in  the  utilization  of  the 
assigned  spectrum  range  from  15%  to  85%  in  current  spectrum  allocation  policies  [1]. 

To  combat  this  problem  J  Motila  first  time  proposes  the  concept  of  Cognitive  Radio  Network  (CRN).  Cognitive 
radio  technology  has  opened  new  doors  to  emerging  applications.  This  technology  can  serve  as  a  facilitator  of 
communications  for  other  devices  which  may  operate  in  different  band  and/or  have  incompatible  wireless  interfaces. 
Similarly,  this  technology  can  also  be  used  to  provide  opportunistic  access  to  large  parts  of  the  underutilized  spectrum  in 
cellular  networks.  In  his  paper  J.  Motila  Define  Cognitive  Radio  as 

"The  point  in  which  wireless  personal  digital  assistants  and  the  related  networks  are  sufficiently  computationally 
intelligent  about  radio  resources  and  related  computer  to  computer  communications  to  detect  user  communication  needs 
as  a  function  of  use  context,  and  to  provide  radio  resources  and  wireless  services  most  appropriate  to  those  needs"  [2]. 

As  wireless  applications  are  becoming  more  sophisticated  and  are  widely  used,  the  demand  for  high  data-rate 
communications  will  increase  substantially.  Therefore,  in  addition  of  being  frequency  agile,  a  communication  system 
should  be  able  to  achieve  high  data-rates  for  transmission.  The  Multicarrier  modulation  (MCM)  approach  can  support  huge 
data-rates  by  dividing  the  stream  into  several  parallel  bit  streams,  each  with  a  lower  bit  rate,  and  modulating  these  sub- 
streams  with  different  subcarriers  [3], 


Electronics  &  Communication,  IFTM  University,  Moradabad,  Uttar  Pradesh,  India 


ABSTRACT 


INTRODUCTION 


112 


Sonali  Gupta  &  Arun  Kumar 


In  this  paper  we  will  study  orthogonal  frequency  division  multiplexing  (OFDM),  which  is  a  multicarrier 
modulation  scheme.  CRN  uses  OFDM  for  data  transmission  at  lower  bit  rate  (BER).  In  this  paper  we  will  study  BER 
analysis  of  OFDM  system  in  cognitive  radio  network.  Several  schemes  are  also  proposed  so  that  BER  can  be  improved  and 
inter  carrier  interference  (ICI)  can  be  minimized. 

ORTHOGONAL  FREQUENCY  DIVISION  MULTIPLEXING  (OFDM) 

OFDM  is  a  multi-carrier  transmission  technique  that  divides  the  available  spectrum  into  subcarriers,  with  each 
subcarrier  containing  a  low  rate  data  stream.  The  subcarriers  have  appropriate  spacing  and  pass  band  filter  shape  to  satisfy 
orthogonality.  As  compared  to  classical  parallel  data  system,  frequency  division  multiplexing  (FDM),  where  a  guard  band 
is  necessary  between  the  subcarriers  which  results  in  an  inefficient  usage  of  spectrum. 


Transmitter 


i/p 

 ► 

 ► 

 *■ 

 » 

data 

S/P 

IFFT 

CP 
inserter 

 *■ 

 > 

Channel 


CP 
remover 


Receiver 
Figure  1:  ODFM  System  Block 

The  schematic  diagram  of  the  OFDM  system  is  depicted  in  Figure  1.  Each  OFDM  symbol  can  be  generated  as 
follows  [4].  The  bit  stream  is  split  into  parallel  data  streams  using  the  serial -to-  parallel  (S/P)  converter.  Afterwards,  the 
parallel  streams  are  passed  into  an  inverse  fast  Fourier  transformation  (IFFT)  to  generate  a  time  sequence  of  the  streams. 
Subsequently,  the  OFDM  symbol  time  sequences  are  extended  by  adding  a  cyclic  extension  called  the  cyclic  prefix  (CP). 
The  CP  is  a  copy  of  the  last  part  of  the  symbol  that  is  added  in  the  beginning  of  the  sequences  and  should  be  larger  than  the 
network  delay  spread  in  order  to  mitigate  the  inter-symbol  interference  (ISI)  generated  by  the  arrival  of  different  OFDM 
symbols  with  different  delay.  The  resulting  digital  signal  is  converted  into  an  analogue  one  and  transmitted  through  the 
channel. 

At  the  receiver  side,  the  signal  is  reconverted  again  into  digital  one  and  the  fast  Fourier  transformation  (FFT)  is 
performed  on  the  received  streams  after  removing  the  CP.  Finally,  the  parallel  streams  are  gathered  into  single  stream  as 
the  original  transmitted  one.  The  OFDM  baseband  equivalent  is  formed  by  taking  the  inverse  discrete  Fourier  transform 
(IDFT)  to  a  set  of  complex  input  symbols  {Xk}  and  adding  a  cyclic  prefix  [5].  This  can  be  written  mathematically  as 

x&O  =  SftEiEzWt"  -  lT)e^-*-aw  (1) 

Where  {k}  is  the  set  of  data  subcarrier  indices  and  is  a  subset  of  the  set  {0,  1,  ■  ■  ■  ,N  -  1},  N  is  the  IDFT  size,  C 
is  the  length  of  the  cyclic  prefix  in  number  of  samples,  and  T  =  C  +  N  is  the  length  of  the  OFDM  symbol  in  number  of 


o/p 
data 


P/S 

4  

FFT 

4  

<  

<  

<  

■4  

BER  Performance  Analysis  of  OFDM  in  Cognitive  Radio  Network  in  Rayleigh  Fading  Channel 


113 


samples.  1  denotes  the  1th  OFDM  symbol  while  gT  (n)  is  a  rectangular  pulse  shape  that  can  be  expressed  as  any  two 
subcarriers  in  OFDM  are  orthogonal  in  the  time  interval  T. 

«  =  <U  r-i 

otherwise 


OFDM  SIGNAL  TO  NOISE  RATIO  (SNR)  ANALYSIS  IN  RAYLEIGH  FADING  CHANNEL 

The  SNR  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  desired  signal  power  to  the  noise  power  [6].  The  SNR  indicates  reliability 
of  transmission  link  between  the  transmitter  and  receiver,  and  is  accepted  as  a  standard  measure  of  signal  quality.  The 
mean  SNR  can  be  given  by  the  ratio  of  the  mean  signal  power  and  mean  noise  power  as  follows  [7]: 

where  £(•)  denotes  an  expectation  operator  and  ^denotes  the  SNR  at  Fth  subchannel.  Suppose  we  consider  a 
frequency  non-selective  slow  fading  channel,  i.e.  flat  channel  response,  where  the  channel  magnitude  response  E(\Hi\2)  is 
flat  over  the  spectrum  band.  The  deactivation  of  subcarriers  due  to  incumbent  users  will  result  in  a  non-zero  ISO.  This 
would  also  filter  out  a  portion  of  the  channel  magnitude  response,  which  results  in  an  increase  in  the  magnitude  of 
E(\Hi\2).  Then,  the  SNR  gain  is  given  by: 

=-10tofflo(l  -  a)  (4) 
Where  jY^  =  Noise  power  spectral  density 
B  =  Bandwidth 

ff  =  Incumbent  Spectral  occupancy  (ISP) 

In  case  of  frequency  selective  multipath  channel,  the  channel  magnitude  response  E(\Hi\2)  is  not  flat  over  the 
spectrum.  Thus,  deactivating  a  portion  of  the  spectrum  would  also  flatten  a  portion  of  the  channel  magnitude  response, 
which  results  in  a  random  increase  in  the  magnitude  of  E(\Hi\2). 

PULSE  SHAPING  APPROACH  IN  OFDM 

In  spite  of  various  advantages  OFDM  suffer  from  one  major  drawback  Inter  Carrier  Interference  (ICI)  [8].  When 
ICI  is  increased  than  orthogonality  in  OFDM  transmission  can  no  longer  be  maintained.  Various  researchers  are  working  to 
minimize  the  effect  of  ICI  in  OFDM  transmission.  We  are  going  to  discuss  two  pulse  shaping  approach  in  OFDM  so  that 
ICI  can  be  minimized. 

Improved  Sine  Power  Pulse  (ISP) 

The  purpose  of  pulse  shaping  is  to  reduce  the  main  lobe  as  well  as  side  lobe,  as  the  side  lobes  contain  the  ICI 
power  and  the  main  lobe  contains  peak  power.  The  improved  sine  power  pulse  (ISP)  is  inspired  from  the  conventional  SP 
pulse  shape  [9].  The  conventional  sine  pulse  is  defined  below. 

PSp(f)  =  sincm  (fT)  (5) 


114 


Sonali  Gupta  &  Arun  Kumar 


The  Fourier  transform  of  the  continuous  time  Improved  Sine  power  pulse  (ISP)  is  described  by  modifying  SP  as 

follows. 

PISP(f)  =  exp{ -a(fT)2}sincm  (fT)  (6) 

Where  'a'  is  a  design  parameter  to  adjust  the  amplitude  and  m  is  the  degree  of  the  sine  function.  It  is  observed  that 
the  magnitude  spectral  of  side  lobe  is  maximum  for  rectangular  pulse  and  minimum  for  ISP  pulse  shapes. 

Raised  Cosine  Filter 

The  raised-cosine  filter  is,  a  good  candidate  to  be  used  for  OFDM  sidelobe  suppression  due  to  its  ability  to 
minimize  inter  carrier  interference  (ICI)  as  well  as  its  relatively  straightforward  implementation  based  on  mathematically 
tractable  expressions.  The  ideal  raised-cosine  filter  impulse  response  is  defined  as  [6]: 

/t\  COEl,— j 

h(t)  =  sine  \~ J      4pafs  (7) 
1  T* 

Where  T  is  the  reciprocal  of  the  symbol  rate. 

The  frequency  response  of  an  ideal  raised-cosine  filter  consists  of  unity  gain  at  low  frequencies,  a  raised-cosine 
function  in  the  middle  frequencies,  and  really  total  attenuation  at  high  frequencies.  The  width  of  the  middle  frequencies  is 
defined  by  the  roll  off  factor  P,  where  0  <  P  <  1.  The  term  P  is  a  measure  of  the  excess  bandwidth  (BW)  of  the  filter,  i.e., 
the  BW  occupied  beyond  the  Nyquist  BW  of  1/2T.  Mathematically,  the  frequency  response  of  a  raised-cosine  filter  can  be 
written  as  [11] 


H(f) 


T 


2T 

i+Hrli"-^)]'^*"1^ 


27"         '  2T 

^0  otherwise 


Using  the  Fourier  transform  pair  h(t)<—F  —>H(f),  we  can  modulate  H(f)  to  the  center  frequency  fc  by  multiplying 
h(t)  by  a  factor  of  elnfct.  Therefore,  the  new  raised-cosine  filter  impulse  response  becomes 

1  (9) 

SIMULATION  RESULTS 

In  this  paper,  we  have  evaluated  the  BER  performance  of  an  OFDM  system  with  two  digital  modulation  schemes, 
namely  BPSK  (Binary  Phase  Shift  Keying)  and  QPSK  (Quadrature  Phase  Shift  Keying)  [10],  over  a  Rayleigh  fading 
channel.  OFDM  is  a  powerful  modulation  technique  to  achieve  high  data  rate  and  is  able  to  eliminate  inter  symbol 
interference  (ISI).  It  is  computationally  efficient  due  to  its  use  of  FFT  techniques  for  implementing  modulation  and 
demodulation  functions.  The  simulation  parameters  used  for  the  model  are  as  given  below. 

Simulation  work  is  done  using  MATLAB.  Simulated  and  theoretical  SNR  Verses  BER  curves  for  BPSK  and 
QPSK  modulation  schemes  are  shown  in  figure  2  and  3.  BER  performance  of  QPSK  is  better  than  BPSK.  It  is  clear  from 
the  report  of  federal  communication  commission  that  using  QPSK  data  can  be  transmitted  at  twice  of  data  rate  as  compared 


BER  Performance  Analysis  of  OFDM  in  Cognitive  Radio  Network  in  Rayleigh  Fading  Channel 


115 


to  BPSK  modulation.  The  greatest  penalty  that  is  paid  for  using  QPSK  is  that  QPSK  transmitters  and  receivers  are  very 
much  complicated  and  costly  in  comparison  to  BPSK. 

We  have  chosen  BPSK  modulation  scheme  when  pulse  shaping  scheme  for  ICI  cancelation  are  applied.  The  pulse 
shaping  technique  is  applied  to  OFDM  system  with  a  fixed  normalized  frequency  offset  value  AfT  =  0.25.  Pulse  shapes  RC 
with  roll  off  rate  fi=  0.5  and  ISP  with  different  design  parameters  (m=2,  a=0.5,  1)  are  considered  in  this  simulation.  From 

figure  4  it  is  clear  that  BER  can  be  improved  when  using  raised  cosine  filter  for  ICI  reduction.  Further  improvement  in 
BER  can  be  achieved  when  using  ISP.  Hence  with  the  proposed  pulse  shaping  approach  drawback  of  OFDM  system,  i.e. 
ICI  are  reduced.  So  performance  enhancement  of  the  OFDM  system  is  observed. 


Table  1 


Parameter 

Specification 

IFFT  size 

64 

No  of  carrier  in  OFDM  symbol 

52 

Channel 

Rayleigh 

Frequency  Offset  value 

0.25 

Modulation 

BPSK/  QPSK 

Otoibtbi  oYEEF:  fjrvjPCI  HvFDM 
10  p  ,  ,  ,  ,  , — 


1 1 1 
1 1 1 

1 1 1 
1 1 1 
.Li  L 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
JJ  L 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
.U  L 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
JJ  L 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 

— * —  TVijrttfcal  : 

.  i  i  i  i  

._  i  i  i  i  

""GL.           i                   i                   i  i 

■  _  ^r£r_~  i  i  i  i  

-  .                                                 1                            1  1 

E  =  =  =        =  _ ?t- c  :  :  ::  :c  :  :  ::  :c  ::  ::  : 

■  r  - ~  - 1  1  

i             i          ^tJl..  1 

z  z  z  z  z  3 

■  1  1  1  :.7:  

.  i  i  i  _T:*f  _  -  "t:- 

i             i             i             i  ^t-t 

i             i             i  i 

■  1  1  1  1  

i             i             i  i 
■             i             i  i 

0  5  10  15  20  25  30  35 

Figure  2:  Simulated  and  Theoretical  Bit  Error  Rate  of  QPSK  in  OFDM  in  Rayleigh  Fading  Channel 


BftenrjrpirjualJrv  ciue  tor  BPSK  isligO 

FDM 

f::::i::::3::::?:::::r::::r::::3 

srrnfttsrt  \ 
-e-  tfcforntal  - 

.  i  i  i  i  i  , 

j             7             i             i              i  i 
i             i             i              i  i 

i 
i 

LLL 

1                        1        "^m-           1                         1  1 

1 

 1  

1  1  1  1 

1  1  1  1 
-i-i  I-I 
1  1  1  1 

1  1  1  1 
1  1  1  1 
J  J  LI 
1  1  1  1 

1  1  1  1 
1  1  1  1 

J  J  L\ 

1 1 1 1 

i  i  i  i 
i  i  i  i 
i  i  i  i 

 1  

;  =  =  =  =  2  =  =  =  =  a  =  =  =  =  =i=  =  =  =  =  E  =  =         =  =  =  : 

 1  

:::::  i  :::::::::  d:  :::  :c  ::  :  z  C-z  z-~  z  □ 

1  1  1  1 
1  1  1  1 
1  1  1  1 

■  JU 
1  1 1 1 
1  1 1 1 
1  1 1 1 

1  III! 

i         i         i         i  i 

.  i  i  i  i  i  i 

::::: i ::::::::: ji ::: :c ::::::::: ] 

iii            ii  ii 
■           i           i            i           i            i  i 

I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  

0         5         10        15         3D        25         30        35  40 
CNF 


Figure  3:  Simulated  and  Theoretical  Bit  Error  Rate  of  BPSK  in  OFDM  in  Rayleigh  Fading  Channel 


116 


Sonali  Gupta  &  Arun  Kumar 


I  i  i  i  i  i  i  I 

J  G  1D  1t  30  25  3d  a 


Figure  4:  BER  Performance  of  BPSK-OFDM  System  for  without  and  with  Pulse  Shaping  AfT=  0.25 
REFERENCES 

1.  Federal  Communications  Commission,  "Spectrum  policy  task  force  report,"  ET  Docket  No.  02-135,  2002. 

2.  Mitola  J.,  Maguire  G.:  „Cognitive  radio:  making  software  radios  more  personal",  IEEE  Pers.  Communications, 
1999,6,  (4),  pp.  13-18. 

3.  J.  A.  C.  Bingham,  "Multicarrier  modulation  for  data  transmission:  an  idea  whose  time  has  come,"  IEEE  Commun. 
Mag.,  vol.  28,  pp.  5-14,  May  1990. 

4.  R.  Rajbanshi,  "OFDM-based  cognitive  radio  for  DSA  networks",  Ph.D.  Thesis,  University  of  Kansas,  Lawrence, 
Kan,  USA,  2007. 

5.  S.  B.  Weinstein  and  P.  M.  Ebert,  "Data  transmission  by  frequency  division  multiplexing  using  the  discretefourier 
transform,"  IEEE  Trans.  Commun.  Technol.,  vol.  19,  pp.  628  -  634,  Oct  1971. 

6.  J.  G.  Proakis,  Digital  Communications.  New  York,  NY:  McGraw  Hill,  2001. 

7.  T.  S.  Rappaport,  Wireless  Communications:  Principles  and  Practice.  Upper  Saddle  River,  NJ,  USA:  Prentice 
Hall,  1996. 

8.  X.  CAI  and  G.  B.  Giannakis,  "Low-complexity  ICI  suppression  for  OFDM  over  time-  and  frequency  selective 
Rayleigh  fading  channels,"  in  Proc.  Asilomar  Conf.  Signals,  Systems  and  Computers,  Nov.  2002. 

9.  H.  M.  Mourad,  "Reducing  ICI  in  OFDM  Systems  using  a  Proposed  Pulse  Shape,"  Wireless  Person. 
Communication,  Vol.  40,  pp.  41^18,  2006. 

10.  V.  Kumbasar  and  O.  Kucur,  "ICI  Reduction  in  OFDM  Systems  by  using  Improved  Sine  Power  Pulse,"  Digital 
Signal  Processing,  Vol.17,  Issue  6,  pp.  997-1006,  Nov.  2007. 

11.  Sami  H.  O.  Salih,  Mamoun  M.  A.  Suliman,  "Implementation  of  Adaptive  Modulation  and  Coding  Techniques 
using  Matlab,"  53rd  International  Symposium  ELMAR-201 1,  14-16  September  201 1,  Zadar,  Croatia. 


