Newsweek. 


Aiotbpuntychiumtuns| ticle's Attack on 
FEBRUARY 2015+VOL. 35+NO. 2 the Bible 


New Book: 
Why People Sutter 2014 Web Stats 


Newsweek Article’s 
Attack on the Bible: 
So Misinformed 


It’s a Sin 


J _ 


BRAHAM Lincoln is credited 

with the statement: “How many 

legs does a dog have if you call 
its tail a leg? Four. Calling a tail a leg 
doesn't make ita leg.” With that thought 
in mind, we turn our attention to the 
cover story of the December 23, 2014 
issue of Newsweek titled, “The Bible: 
So Misunderstood It’s a Sin.” Kurt 
Eichenwald, the author, said concerning 
his article: “This examination is not an 
attack on the Bible or Christianity.” He 
says about his writing, “None of this is 
meant to demean the Bible, but all of 
it is fact.” Eichenwald may say that his 
article is not an attack on the Bible or 
is not designed to demean it, but that 
claim is simply not true. He boldly 
states that the Bible is “loaded with 
contradictions and translation errors 
and wasn’t written by witnesses and 
includes words added by unknown 
scribes to inject Church orthodoxy.” 
In fact, the bulk of his writing is an 
effort to prove these errors, contra- 
dictions, and discrepancies. Having 
declared that they are facts (which 
is the furthest thing from the truth, 
as we will show in this response), he 
says, ‘Christians angered by these facts 
should be angry with the Bible, not the 
messenger.” Make no mistake about it, 
Eichenwald is bashing the Bible, and 
he does so without the facts. 

Ina way, Eichenwald’s attack on the 
Bible is reassuring to the Bible believer 
for the simple reason that Eichenwald 
uses information that has been refuted 
literally for centuries. His article con- 
sists of warmed-over skepticism that 


Kyle Butt, M.A. & 
Dave Miller, Ph.D. 


\ 


has so often been easily refuted; we at 

Apologetics Press already have articles 

on virtually every subject he mentions 

(www.apologeticspress.org). In another 
way, however, his article is troubling. 
Why, if his arguments are so easily 
answered, does the author feel that they 

will resonate with his audience or cause 

others to question the Bible? The most 

reasonable answer seems to be that he 

knows his audience is ignorant of the 

responses to his attacks. The Proverbs 

writer once stated, “The first one to 

plead his cause seems right, until his 

neighbor comes and examines him” 
(Proverbs 18:17). To those who have 

not given these matters much thought, 
Eichenwald’s information may seem 

legitimate and may cause one to doubt 

the Bible’s inspiration. However, when 

one examines this information, it will 

be seen for what it is—a thinly veiled, 
inept attack against the inspired Word 

of God. 


THE “CONTRADICTIONS” IN THE BIBLE 


The Birth of Jesus 


NE of the clearest examples of 

Eichenwald’s errant thinking is 
seen in his repetitious claim that the 
Bible is “loaded with contradictions.” 
In his section titled “No Three Kings,” 
he contends that the accounts of Jesus’ 
birth in Matthew and Luke are con- 
tradictory. He writes: “Jesus was born 
ina house in Bethlehem. No wise men 
showed up for the birth.... No angel 
appearing to Mary.... Not born in a 
manget....” Then he asks the reader: 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):14 


“Not the version you are familiar with...? 
You may not recognize this version, but 
it isa story of Jesus’ birth found in the 
Gospels. Two Gospels— Matthew and 
Luke—tell the story of when Jesus 
was born, but in quite different ways. 

Contradictions abound.” 
Is it true that the versions of Jesus’ 
“birth” are filled with contradictions? 
Not at all. Let us see how he proceeds 
to fabricate contradictions that are not 
there. First, notice how he begins his 
section: “Jesus was born in a house in 
Bethlehem.’ Note that he didnot provide 
a verse reference for that claim—for 
good reason: there is no Bible passage 
that claims that Jesus was born in a 
house in Bethlehem. The account in 
Luke makes it clear that Jesus was 
born in Bethlehem (2:4) and, contrary 
to Eichenwald’s charge, in a manger 
(2:7,16)—i.e., a barn-animal feeding 
trough. Did an angel appear to Mary? 
The Gospels make no such claim, and 
therefore, cannot be said to contradict 
one another. An angel appeared to 
shepherds in the field at the time of 
Jesus’ birth (Luke 2:8-13) and to Mary 
before Jesus was conceived (Luke 1:26- 
31), but this does not contradict any 
other passage. Did wise men come to 
the birth? When we turn to Matthew’s 
account, the chapter begins its narra- 
tive about the wise men: “Now after 
Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea 
in the days of Herod the King...” (2:1). 
How long after Jesus was born in 
Bethlehem? The text does not say. In 
fact, king Herod asked the wise men 
what time Jesus’ star appeared (vs. 7), 
and based on that information, the 
evil king issued a decree to kill the 
young males in Bethlehem who were 
from “two years old and under” (vs. 16). 
Obviously, between the time the star 
appeared, and the time the wise men 
arrived, several months had elapsed. 
In fact, from Herod’s calculations to 
kill two year olds, it could have been 
as much as 18 months to two years. So, 
the story in Matthew 2 is not even a 
“birth” story. The Bible makes no claim 
that wise men were at Jesus’ birth. The 
only contradiction that can be levied 
concerning the appearance of the wise 
men is nota contradiction in the Bible, 


but a contradiction between what the 

Bible says and what people have errone- 
ously claimed the Bible says—as with 

the case of the appearance of the angel 

to Mary. 

Eichenwald has committed the very 
mistake that he accuses so many evan- 
gelicals of committing. Early in the 
article he bemoans the fact that many 
people who call themselves Christians 
do not even know what the text says. 
Sadly, he is right. Many Christians 
do not study the Bible as they should. 
He insists that his article is “designed 
to shine a light on a book that has 
been abused by people who claim to 
revere it but don’t read it.” Ironically, 
Eichenwald’s attack is filled with heat, 
but very little light. His examples of 
obvious “contradictions” in the “birth” 
accounts of Jesus are attacks against 
information that is not even in the 
Bible. In an article that purports to 
straighten out those who are biblically 
illiterate, to boldly proclaim that the 
Bible states that “Jesus was born in a 
house in Bethlehem’—when the Bible 
nowhere makes such a statement—is 
inexcusable, slipshod scholarship. [For 
more information, see the A.P. article: 

“When Did Jesus Go to Egypt?” (Lyons, 
2011), 

In addition, Eichenwald claims that 
the genealogies in Matthew and Luke 
trace Jesus’ bloodline through Joseph, 

“Except...Joseph wasn’t Jesus’ father... 
Mary, the mother of Jesus, can be the 
only parent with a bloodline to David, 
but neither Gospel makes mention of 
that.” This allegation has been decisively 
answered in the A.P. article titled, “The 
Genealogies of Matthew and Luke.” 
Here is the short answer to this alleged 
discrepancy: 

Here is the precise purpose of 
Matthew's genealogy: it demonstrated 
Jesus’ legal right to inherit the throne 
of David—a necessary prerequisite to 
authenticating His Messianic claim. 
However, an equally critical creden- 
tial was His blood/physical descent 
from David—a point that could not 
be established through Joseph since 
“after His mother Mary was betrothed 
to Joseph, before they came together, 
she was found with child ofthe Holy 


Spirit” (Matthew 1:18, emp. added). 
This feature of Christ’s Messiahship 
was established through His mother 
Mary, who was also a blood descen- 
dant of David (Luke 1:30-32). Both 
the blood of David and the throne 
of David were necessary variables to 
qualify and authenticate Jesus as the 
Messiah (Miller, 2003, emp. in orig,). 
Isn't it interesting that Eichenwald left 
out the fact that Luke’s genealogy men- 
tions Jesus “being (as was supposed) the 
son of Joseph” (Luke 3:24)? By using 
the phrase “as was supposed,” Luke 
demonstrates that Jesus was not the 
actual son of Joseph, just the perceived 
one. In addition, the Newsweek author 
neglected to mention that in Matthew 
1:16, when the text says that “Jacob begot 
Joseph the husband of Mary, ofwhom 
was born Jesus,” the word “whom” (in 
the Greek) is in the feminine form. It 
could only be referring to Mary. Thus, 
neither of the genealogies states that 
Jesus was born to Joseph. 


Alleged Contradictions in the 
Resurrection Accounts 


Eichenwald continues his attack on 
the Bible, stating that the “stories in 
the four Gospels of Jesus’ death and 
resurrection differ as well.” He asserts: 

“And who went to anoint Jesus in his 
tomb? In Matthew, it was Mary and 
another woman named Mary, andan 


angel met them there. In Mark, it was 
Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother 
of James, and Salome, and a young 
man met them. In John, it was Mary 
alone; no one met her.” Supposedly, 
these “differing” accounts are so bla- 
tantly contradictory that no further 
examination need be applied to them. 
When we apply proper reasoning to 
this allegation, however, we see there 
are no contradictions. 


For instance, what if John mentions 
one Mary while Matthew mentions 
Maryand another woman named Mary? 
This difference is not a contradiction. 
John would have had to qualify his 
statement by saying that “only” Mary 
or Mary “alone” went to the tomb. Did 
you notice that Eichenwald includes 
the word “alone” with Mary, but the 
biblical text never does? Just because 
one writer gives additional or supple- 
mental information does not make 
him contradict the other account. [For 
more information, see the A.P. article 
titled, “The Resurrection Narratives” 
(Butt, 2002).] Consider Eichenwald’s 
own statement that at the Council of 
Nicaea, “Constantine arrived wear- 
ing jewels and gold on his scarlet robe 
and pearls on his crown.” Suppose 
that another person were to say that 
Constantine arrived with numerous 
courtiers and was wearing boots. Would 


Reason & Revelation is published monthly by Apologetics Press, Inc. Periodicals postage 
paid at Montgomery, AL. Postmaster: Send address changes to Reason & Revelation, 
230 Landmark Dr., Montgomery, AL 36117; ISSN:[1542-0922] USPS# 023415. 


Apologetics Press is a non-profit, tax-exempt work dedicated to the defense of New Testa- 
ment Christianity. Copyright © 2015. All rights reserved. 


Editor: 
Dave Miller, Ph.D.” 


(*Communication, Southern Illinois University) 
Associate Editor: 
Jeff Miller, Ph.D.” 


(*Biomechanical Engineering, Auburn University) 


Annual Subscription Rates: 


$12.00 Domestic 
$10.00 Domestic Bulk 

(5+ to same address) 
$12.00 Canada & Overseas 


(plus shipping) 
General inquiries, changes of address, 
or international callers: 


Phone: 
Fax: 


(334) 272-8558 
(334) 270-2002 


Orders: 
Phone: (800) 234-8558 
Fax: (800) 234-2882 


On-line Web store/catalog, subscription 
order/renewal form, currentissues, archives, 
and other information (all orders processed 
on a secure server): 


URL: www.ApologeticsPress.org 
URL: espanol.ApologeticsPress.org/espanol 
E-mail: mail@ApologeticsPress.org 


Discovery—Scripture & Science for 
Kids is a sister publication for children. For 
more information, please contact our offices 
or visit the Discovery Web site at: 

URL: www.DiscoveryMagazine.com 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):15 


that statement bea contradiction? Not 
in any way. Such accusations barely 
deserve to be answered—if it were not 
for their prevalence. 


Two Accounts of Creation? 


Eichenwald further suggests that 
“biblical scholars have concluded that 
two Jewish sects wrote many of the 
books. Each prepared its version of 
the Old Testament, and the two were 
joined together without any attempt 


to reconcile the many contradictions” 


(2014). Once again, the Newsweek 
writer conveniently mentions onl 
those “biblical scholars” who happen 
to agree with him. What about the 
thousands of scholars that do not agree 
with this specious position? As an 
example of these “doublets,” he states: 
“The next time someone tells you the 
biblical story of Creation is true, ask 
that person, “Which one?’ Few of the 
Christian faithful seem to know the 
Bible contains multiple creation stories... 
Careful readers have long known that 
the two stories contradict each other.” In 
truth, careful readers have long known 
just the opposite. As Wayne Jackson 
concluded: “When the texts of Genesis 
1 and 2 have been considered carefully, 
one thing is clear: an objective evalua- 
tion reveals no discrepancies, nor is a 
dual authorship to be inferred. Devout 
students of the Bible should not be 
disturbed by the fanciful, ever-changing 
theories of the liberal critics” (See the 
A.P. article, “Are There Two Creation 
Accounts in Genesis?” [ Jackson, 1991; 
Cf. McGarvey, 1910, p.66]). [NOTE: In 
his section dealing with such doublets, 
Eichenwald mentions that “biblical 
scholars” have concluded that Moses 
did not write the Pentateuch. The 
evidence, however, reveals that Moses 
certainly did write these books. See the 
A.P. article “Mosaic Authorship of the 
Pentateuch—Tried and True” (Lyons, 
2003; cf. McGarvey, 1902).] 

The article also uses the Flood story 
as an example of doublets causing con- 
tradictions. Eichenwald says the “water 
flooded the earth for 40 days (Genesis 
7:17), or 150 days (Genesis 7:24).” His 
careless use of the Scripture is painful 
to endure. The text does not say in 


Genesis 7:17 that the Flood stopped 
after 40 days. It simply details things 
that occurred at that time, such as the 
waters lifting the ark off the ground. 
The text in Genesis 7:24 specifically 
says that at the end of 150 days the 
water began to decrease. The previous 
7:17 says nothing about the complete 
duration of the Flood or when the 
waters stopped rising. [NOTE: For 
an exhaustive list of answers to these 
types of alleged contradictions, see 
A.P’s Web site category titled “Alleged 


Discrepancies.” ] 


SUNDAY AS THE CHRISTIAN 
DAY OF WORSHIP 


HE title of the Newsweek article, 

“The Bible: So Misunderstood It’s a 
Sin,” explains much about the author’s 
method of bashing. He approaches the 
subject in light of the idea that many 
Christians do not read or understand 
the Bible. One of the author’s grievous 
faults, however, is that it is apparent 
that he does not read or understand the 
Bible either, and he writes in a way that 
betrays this fact. For instance, when 
discussing the Christian day of worship, 
Eichenwald suggests that Constantine 
was responsible for establishing it as 
Sunday instead of the Sabbath (or 
Saturday). He alleges: 


Things that are today accepted with- 
out much thought were adopted or 
reinforced at Nicaea. For example, the 
Old Testament was clear in declaring 
that God rested on the seventh day, 
making it the Sabbath. The seventh 
day of the week is Saturday, the day 
of Jewish worship and rest. (Jesus 
himself invoked the holiness of the 
Jewish Sabbath.) The word Sunday 
does not appear in the Bible, either 
as the Sabbath or anything else. But 
four years before Nicaea, Constantine 
declared Sunday as a day of rest in 
honor of the sun God.... Many theolo- 
gians and Christian historians believe 
that it was at this moment, to satisfy 
Constantine and his commitment to 
his empire’s many sun worshippers, 
that the Holy Sabbath was moved 
by one day, contradicting the clear 
words of what ultimately became 


the Bible (2014). 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):16 


Notice the author's tactic. First, he says 
that both the Old Testament and Jesus 
invoked the Sabbath (our Saturday) as 
holy. Then he states that the Bible never 
even uses the word Sunday. And, lastly, 
he implies that Christians were not 

“officially” worshiping on this day prior 
to Constantine, but that Constantine 
changed the day of Christian worship 
to Sunday. 

Eichenwald’s assertions regarding the 
day of Christian worship contradict 
both biblical and historical fact—and 
are easily answered. First, he confuses 
the issue when he says that the word 

“Sunday” is not even used in the Bible, 
since none of our modern names for 
the days of the week are used in the 
Bible. The term “Saturday” does not 
appear. You will not read the terms 

“Friday” or “Monday” in the original 
text either. Such is to be expected. The 
real question is: did the writers of the 
Bible have their own designation for 
the day that we call Sunday? Of course 
they did; it was called “the first day 
of the week,” Saturday (or Sabbath), 
being the last or seventh day of their 
week. We could ask, then, do we read 
about anything in the New Testament 
happening on the first day of the week? 
Absolutely. In fact, Jesus rose early 

“after the Sabbath, as the first day of 
the week began to dawn” (Matthew 
28:1). Christians were to come together 
to give money to support the church’s 
work every “first day of the week” in 
the city of Corinth (1 Corinthians 
16:2). And the book of Acts explains 
that the Christians gathered to partake 
of the Lord’s Supper (referred to as 

“breaking bread”) on the first day of 
the week (Acts 20:7). 

Early Christian writers that lived in 
the 2™!and 3" centuries verify this truth. 
As Eric Lyons wrote in the A.P. article 
titled “Did Paul Want Christians to 
Come Together on Saturday or Sunday?” 

Ignatius wrote in his letter to the 
Magnesians (believed to be penned 
around A.D. 110) how Christians 

“have come to the possession ofa new 

hope, no longer observing the Sabbath, 
but living in the observance of the 
Lord’s Day” (1:62, emp. added; cf. 
Revelation 1:5). And, in chapter 67 


of his First Apology (written around 
A.D. 150), Justin Martyr noted how 
Christians would gather together “on 
the day called Sunday” to read the 
writings of the apostles and prophets, 
instruct, pray, give, and eat of bread 
and wine (2005; see also the A.P. 
article, “The First Day of the Week” 
[Lyons, 2006)). 
Biblical scholar Robert Milligan wrote, 
“That the primitive Christians were 
wont to celebrate the Lord’s Supper on 
every first day of the week is evident... 
During the first two centuries the 
practice of weekly communion was 
universal, and it was continued in the 
Greek church till the seventh century” 
(1975, p. 440). 

In addition to these facts, Eichenwald 
seems to be totally unaware of the 
overwhelming testimony of the New 
Testament that the Old Testament 
has been fulfilled and removed. Yes, 
the Old Testament mandated wor 
ship on the Sabbath—for the Jews; 
but Christ’s death and resurrection 
changed the law. As the Hebrews writer 
so concisely observed, “In that He says, 
‘A new covenant, He has made the first 
obsolete” (8:13). And again Paul wrote 
that the Old Law, “was our tutor to 
bring us to Christ, that we might be 
justified by faith. But after faith has 
come, we are no longer under a tutor” 
(Galatians 3:25). Christians no longer 
sacrifice animals as the Israelites did, 
they no longer celebrate the Passover, 
and they no longer hallow Saturday 
as the Holy Day. Those are vestiges of 
the Old Law that have been removed. 
For Eichenwald to misunderstand such 
clear and repetitive New Testament 
teaching is disappointing to say the least. 
The testimony of the New Testament 
and early Christian writers proves that 
Sunday was the Christian day of wor- 
ship centuries before Constantine 
arrived on the scene. 


JESUS AND FAMILY VALUES 


N the first paragraph of his article, 
Eichenwald caricatures certain 
“Christian” fanatics and caustically 
attacks them, demanding that “they are 
God’s fraud’s, cafeteria Christians who 


pick and choose which Bible verses they 


heed with less care than they exercise 
in selecting side orders for lunch.” As 
we have seen throughout this review, 
Eichenwald is often guilty of the very 
tactics he condemns others for using. 
Asan example, consider his statements 
concerning Jesus and family values. 
He wrote: 
Someofthe contradictions are conflicts 
between what evangelicals consider 
absolute and what Jesus actually said. 
For example, evangelicals are always 
talking about family values. But to 
Jesus, family was an impediment 
to reaching God. In the Gospel of 
Matthew, he states, “And every one 
thathath forsaken houses, or brethren, 
or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, 
or children, or lands, for my name’s 


sake, shall receivean hundredfold, and 
shall inherit everlasting life” (2014). 
Talk about cafeteria style Bible interpre- 
tation! Eichenwald conveniently fails 
to include the fact that one of Jesus’ 
dying statements was to ensure that 
His mother was taken care of after His 
death (John 19:26-27). He leaves out 
the fact that Jesus’ apostles insisted that 
husbands are called to love their wives 
and give their very lives to protect them 
(Ephesians 5:25). In addition, children 
are to honor their parents (Ephesians 
6:1), fathers are to train and discipline 
their children (Ephesians 6:4; Hebrews 
12:7-11), families are to financially sup- 
port their own (1 Timothy 5:8), and 
wives are to love their husbands and 
their children (Titus 2:4). In addition, 
Jesus insisted that God is like a loving 
Father who longs for the return of His 
children (Luke 15:11-32). It is only pos- 
sible to question Jesus’ and the apostles’ 
family values if a handful of verses are 
ripped from their context. 
What is Jesus really saying when He 
mentions that His followers are to 
“forsake” families or homes for His 
cause? The easy-to-understand message 
here is that a relationship with Jesus 
must be the most important relation- 
ship in the life of His followers. That 
means if a spouse were to demand 
that a Christian participate in pagan 
idol worship or the spouse was going 
to leave, then with much sadness but 
firm resolve, the Christian should let 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):17 


the spouse leave and not join in the 

pagan idol worship. If Hindu parents 

insist that if their college son becomes 

a Christian they will disown him, 
that son should follow Christ and be 

disowned by his parents. We can all 

understand that a person should never 
commit murder, theft, or adultery to 

preserve a close relationship with fam- 
ily or friends. Jesus was merely stating 

that the relationship with Him is the 

most important. [See the A.P. article 

“Hate Your Parents—or Love Them?” 
Butt, 2004).] 


HAS THE BIBLE BEEN CORRUPTED? 


NE of the longest sections of the 
Newsweek article deals with the 
idea that the Bible has been corrupted 
over time, that we do not really know 
which books belong in the Bible, and 
that translation errors are so plentiful 
that we do not have the original mes- 
sage. Yet these allegations have been 
confronted and refuted time and time 
again. [Cf. A.P.’s soon-to-be released 
video series titled, “Has the Bible Been 
Corrupted?” in which such assertions 
are debunked.] Many books over the 
years have masterfully answered the 
skeptic in this regard, including such 
volumes as J.W. McGarvey’s Evidences 
of Christianity, F.F. Bruce’s The Canon 
of Scripture, Bruce Metzger’s The Text 
of the New Testament, and a host of 
others. The Newsweek article manifests 
abysmal, inexcusable ignorance of the 
long established facts of the matter. 
For example, Eichenwald states that 
we do not have the original message 
of the Bible because the originals are 
lost and the translations are filled with 
errors and variations. He claims that 
no television preacher has ever read 
the Bible. Neither has any evangeli- 
cal politician. Neither has the pope. 
Neither have I. And neither have 
you. At best, we've all read a bad 
translation—a translation of transla- 
tions of translations of hand-copied 
copies of copies of copies of copies, and 
on and on, hundreds of times (2014). 
Supposedly, according to Eichenwald, 
since we don’t have the originals, and 
our translations are from copies that 


» Received 19,400,000* 
page views in 2014 from individuals located in 
some 230 countries and territories worldwide 


(approx. one electronic page view every 1.6 seconds) 


e A.P. App: Over 3,700 have installed the app, 
and over 20,000 pages have been viewed 


e Over 17,000 likes on the A.P. Facebook 
page from over 45 countries 


e Over 5,200 signed up to use the A.P. 
Bible Class curriculum site 


e Over 2,500 signed up to use 
A.P’s Advanced Bible Reader 


Visit our Web 
site today! 


Ae 


¢ For more information aboutA .P. call 


or visit 
www.ApologeticsPress.org/webstore 


\ 


_ Apologetics'Press 


~ ~~? : 
‘NEW BOOK 
‘- For more information call 


(S00) 234-8558 


or visit 


way ee a Wee 
a 


Scan code ; 
toorderbook {¢ 


or call 
ce 234-8558 


Ai 
Ve Yea 


hy ey ot : qe, on ‘ p* al ot 7 we , 
~ wy a z of ‘. Ss 
- . r . “ x Aes = 
- i aeagaly ah - - ¢ ~ _ -< 
“ ie < . vere yy ” - a. oe hehe. ‘ 
pty Written ayers} 1 fi ; ts, at i 
. ¢ od r s 2 > - vy , We Vee 4 ¥ ° 
4 =» ; , : » r sy 
een ihe 1 ave oP ey a BS oe nn 
va! ~ , 9? ¥ ' a w Wat + ra! e 7 
¥, . he ¥ 4 ers . ’ i ° 4 


“This book 
presents the 
#1 explanation:, 

given by the 
Bible for. 
“making” 
sense of 

suffering. 


csp = OM .. Thought, questions are: mt 
* ‘included for each section. 


& Perfect for. Bible: class study 


were written in other languages, there is 
no way we have actually read the Bible. 
This naive, uninformed view of mes- 
sage transmission cannot be maintained 
in light of the evidence. Are we to 
believe that since we have never seen 
Eichenwald’s original article that he 
personally typed or penned, then we 
cannot have the information he intended 
to present? Is it true that since some 
people read the article on-line, but oth- 
ers in printed form, then the original 
message is hopelessly lost? Is it true 
that anyone who reads the article in a 
language other than English has never 
really read the article, since it would be 
a translation? What Eichenwald and 
other skeptics are attempting to do 
is suggest that it is impossible to pass 
information accurately from one lan- 
guage to another, or from one printed 
page to another; but that suggestion 
is simply not true. If it is possible for a 
person to copyaccurately a message once, 
it is possible to do so twice, and so on. 
When we approach the Bible, we must 
simply ask, “Do we have the message that 
the original authors penned?” When 
we explore that question, we discover 
that the books of the New Testament 
are the most extensively verified books 
of ancient history. If we deny the Bible 
is verified, then we are saying that it is 
impossible for any information to be 
conveyed accurately from the past to 
the present. The skeptics’ attack is not 
against the Bible, per se; it is against 
the idea that we can know anything 
from ancient history. If it is possible to 
know what any writer has ever penned, 
then the skeptic’s accusations against 
the Bible cannot be sustained. When 
Eichenwald states, “And what biblical 
scholars now know is that later versions 
of the books differ significantly from 
earlier ones,” he implies there are so 
many variations in the manuscripts 
that the original message has been lost. 
This misleading exaggeration isa typical 
ploy by those who wish to discredit the 
integrity of the text of the Bible. What's 
more, when he states, “Scribes added 
whole sections of the New Testament, 
and removed words and sentences that 
contradicted emerging orthodox beliefs,” 
he unwittingly admits that scholars 


have been able to identify and isolate 

those very words and sentences! In 

actuality, those manuscripts wherein 
scribes manifested doctrinal bias are in 
the small minority, do not represent the 
mass of manuscripts, and are identifiable. 

Due to length constraints, a detailed 
analysis of textual variants is beyond 
the scope of this article. However, the 
sincere inquirer may easily access the 
analyses that have been made on each 
passage. For example, for a thorough 
discussion of the last 12 verses of 

Mark, see Miller, 2005; Scrivener, 

1861, pp. 429ff; et al. For a discussion 

of the manuscript support pertaining 

to the woman taken in adultery (John 
7:53-8:11), see Scrivener, pp.439-443; 

Woods, 1989, p. 162; McGarvey, 1974, p. 

16; Metzger, 1971, pp.219-222; Jackson, 

2011, p. 161; etal. For 1 John 5:7, see 

Woods, 1962, pp. 324-326; Metzger, 

1971, pp. 716-718. For Luke 22:17- 

20, see Metzger, 1971, pp. 173-177. 

Any standard text on textual criticism 

discusses these and many other vari- 

ants (e.g., Aland and Aland, 1987). If 
the reader desires the truth regarding 
the authenticity and integrity of the 

Bible, the evidence is available—if 

the individual is willing to spend the 

time and effort to weigh that evidence 

and arrive at the proper conclusion (1 

Thessalonians 5:21; 1 John 4:1). 

What Eichenwald fails to divulge are 
several facts that completely undermine 
and discredit his attack on the integrity 
and transmission of the Bible: 

1. God knew that the original auto- 
graphs would not survive, and that 
His Word would have to be trans- 
mitted through the centuries via 
copies. The transmission process 
is sufficiently flexible for God’s 
Word to be conveyed adequately 
by uninspired, imperfect copyists. 

2. We know how the original New 
Testament books read because we 
have three surviving classes of 
evidence by which to reconstruct 
the original New Testament: Greek 
manuscripts, ancient versions, and 
patristic citations. 

3. The current number of Greek manu- 
script copies containing all or part of 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):20 


the New Testament now stands at 
5,795. This amount of manuscript 
evidence for the text of the New 
Testament is far greater than that 
available for any ancient classical 
author. 

4, The time between the writing of the 
original books of the New Testament 
and the earliest surviving copies is 
relatively brief. 

5. Although no two manuscript copies 
agree in every detail, the degree of 
accuracy achieved by most scribes 
was remarkably high. The vast 
majority of textual variants involve 
minor matters that do not alter any 
basic teaching of the New Testament. 
No feature of Christian doctrine 
is at stake. 

6. Suitable solutions to these differences 
are detectable. Even ifthey weren't, the 
original reading is one of the extant 
options. And even those variants 
that some might deem “doctrinally 
significant” pertain to matters that 
are treated elsewhere in the Bible 
where the question of genuineness/ 
certainty is unquestioned. 

7. We can confidently affirm that we 
have 999/1000" of the original New 
Testament intact. The remaining 
1/1000" pertains to inconsequential 
details. 

These observations have been verified by 

the greatest textual critics and linguistic 
scholars of the past two centuries. Their 
conclusions have not become outdated, 
but remain as valid today as when first 
formulated. If the integrity of the text 
of the Bible was fully authenticated in 
their day, it remains so today. Consider 
the following statements by some of 
these world class authorities. 


SCHOLARLY VERIFICATION OF THE 
PURITY OF THE NEW TESTAMENT TEXT 


F.F. Bruce (1910-1990) was a bib- 
lical scholar who taught Greek at 
the University of Edinburgh and 
the University of Leeds, chaired the 
Department of Biblical History and 
Literature at the University of Sheffield, 
received an honorary Doctor of Divinity 
from Aberdeen University, and served 
as the Rylands Professor of Biblical 


Criticism and Exegesis at the University 
of Manchester. He wrote over 40 books 
and served as Editor of The Evangelical 
Quarterly and Palestine Exploration 
Quarterly. Bruce declared: “The vari- 
ant readings about which any doubt 
remains among textual critics of the 
N.T. affect no material question of 
historic fact or of Christian faith 
and practice” (1975, pp. 19-20, emp. 
added). Asifanticipating the Newsweek 
article, he also stated: 
Inview of the inevitable accumulation 
of such errors over so many centuries, 
it may be thought that the original 
texts of the New Testament docu- 
ments have been corrupted beyond 
restoration. Some writers, indeed, 
insist on the likelihood of this to 
such a degree that one sometimes 
suspects they would be glad if it were 
so. But they are mistaken. There is 
no body of ancient literature in the 
world which enjoys such a wealth of 
good textual attestation as the New 
‘Testament (1963, p. 178, emp. added). 
Bruce further insisted: 
Something more ought to be said, and 
said with emphasis. We have been 
discussing various textual types, and 
reviewing their comparative claims 
to be regarded as best representatives 
of the original New Testament. But 
there are not wide divergencies 
between these types, of a kind 
that could make any difference 
to the Church’s responsibility to 
beawitness and guardian of Holy 
Writ.... Ifthe variant readings are so 
numerous, it is because the witnesses 
are sonumerous. Butall the witnesses, 
andall the types which they represent, 
agree on every article of Christian 
belief and practice (1963, p. 189, 
emp. added). 

Bruce Metzger (1914-2007) was also 
ascholar of Greek, the New Testament, 
and New Testament Textual Criticism, 
serving as professor at Princeton 
Theological Seminary for 46 years. 
He was a recognized authority on the 
Greek text of the New Testament. He 
served on the board of the American 
Bible Society, was the driving force of the 
United Bible Societies’ series of Greek 
Texts, and served as Chairperson of the 
NRSV Bible Committee. He is widely 
considered one of the most influential 


New Testament scholars of the 20% 
century. Metzger stated: 

...even ifwe had no Greek manuscripts 
today, by piecing together the informa- 
tion from these translations from a 
relatively early date, we could actually 
reproduce the contents of the New 
Testament. In addition to that, even 
if we lost all the Greek manuscripts 
and the early translations, we could 
still reproduce the contents of the 
New Testament from the multiplic- 
ity of quotations in commentaries, 
sermons, letters, and so forth of the 
early church fathers (as quoted in 
Strobel, 1998, p. 59). 

Brooke Foss Westcott (1825-1901) 
was a British bishop, biblical scholar 
and theologian, serving as Bishop 
of Durham and holding the Regius 
Professorship of Divinity at Cambridge. 
His colleague, Fenton John Anthony 
Hort (1828-1892), was an Irish theo- 
logian who served as a Professor at 
Cambridge. Together, they pioneered 
the widely recognized Greek text The 
New Testament in the Original Greek 
in 1881. Theyare still considered to be 
renowned textual critics. They forth- 
rightly asserted: 

With regard to the great bulk of the 
words of the New Testament...there 
is no variation or other ground of 
doubt.... [T]he amount of what can 
in any sense be called substantial 
variation is buta small fraction of the 
whole residuary variation, and can 
hardly form morethanathousandth 
part of the entire text. Since there is 
reason to suspect that an exaggerated 
impression prevails as to the extent 
of possible textual corruption in the 
New Testament...we desire to make 
it clearly understood beforehand 
how much of the New Testament 
standsin no need ofatextual critic’s 
labours (1882, pp. 2-3, emp. added). 

These peerless scholars also insisted: 
“[I]n the variety and fullness of the 
evidence on which it rests the text of 
the New Testament stands absolutely 
and unapproachably alone among 
ancient prose writing” (p. 278, emp. 
added). They add: “The books of the 
New Testament as preserved in extant 
documents assuredly speak to us in 
every important respect in language 
identical with that in which they spoke 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):2I 


to those for whom they were originally 
written” (p. 284). 

Benjamin Warfield (1851-1921) was 
a Professor of Theology at Princeton 
Seminary from 1887 to 1921. He 
is considered to be the last of the 
great Princeton theologians. In his 
Introduction to the Textual Criticism of 
the New Testament, Warfield insight 
fully observed: 

[S]uch has been the providence of God 
in preserving for His Church in each 
and every age a competently exact 
text of the Scriptures, that not only is 
the New Testamentunrivalled among 
ancient writings in the purity of its 
text as actually transmitted and kept 
in use, but also in the abundance of 
testimony which has come down to 
us for castigating its comparatively 
infrequent blemishes.... The great 
mass of the New Testament, in other 
words, has been transmitted to us with 
no, or next to no, variation (1886, 
pp. 12-13,14, emp. added). 

Richard Bentley (1662-1742) was 
an English classical scholar, critic, and 
theologian who served as Master of 
Trinity College, Cambridge and was 
the first Englishman to be ranked 
with the great heroes of classical learn- 
ing. He was well-known for his liter- 
ary and textual criticism, even called 
the “Founder of Historical Philology,” 
and credited with the creation of the 
English school of Hellenism. Here are 
his comments on the integrity of the 
New Testament text: 

[T]he real text of the sacred writers 
does not now (since the originals 
have been so long lost) lie in any 
single manuscript or edition, but is 
dispersed in them all. “Tis compe- 
tently exactindeed even in the worst 
manuscript now extant; nor is one 
article of faith or moral precept 
either perverted or lost in them 
(1725, pp. 68-69, emp. added). 

Sir Frederic George Kenyon (1863- 
1952) was a widely respected, imminent 
British paleographer and biblical and 
classical scholar who occupied series of 
postsat the British Museum. He served 
as President of the British Academy 
from 1917 to 1921 and President of 
the British School of Archaeology in 
Jerusalem. He madea lifelong study of 


the Bible as an historical text. In his 
masterful Our Bible and the Ancient 
Manuscripts, Kenyon affirmed: 


One word of warning...must be 
emphasized in conclusion. No fun- 
damental doctrine ofthe Christian 
faith rests on a disputed reading. 
Constant references to mistakes 
and divergencies of reading...might 
give rise to the doubt whether the 
substance, as well as the language, 
of the Bible is not open to question. 
It cannot be too strongly asserted 
that in substance the text of the 
Bible is certain. Especially is this 
the case with the New Testament. 
The number of manuscripts of the 
New Testament, of early translations 
from it, and of quotations from it in 
the oldest writers of the Church is so 
large, that it is practically certain that 
the true reading of every doubtful 
passage is preserved in some one or 
other of these ancient authorities. 
This can be said of no other ancient 
book in the world (1895, pp. 10-11, 
emp. added). 
In his monumental The Bible and 
Archaeology, Kenyon further stated: 
The interval then between the dates of 
original composition and the earliest 
extant evidence becomes so small as 
to be in fact negligible, and the last 
foundation for any doubt that the 
Scriptures have come down to us 
substantially as they were writ- 
ten has now been removed. Both 
the authenticity and the general 
integrity of the books of the New 
Testament may be regarded as 
finally established (1940, pp. 288- 
289, emp. added). 
Indeed, “the Christian can take the 
whole Bible in his hand and say without 
fear of hesitation that he holds in it the 
true Word of God, faithfully handed 
down from generation to generation 
throughout the centuries” (1895, pp. 
10-11). 

Samuel Davidson (1806-1898) was 
an Irish biblical scholar who served 
as Professor of Biblical Criticism at 
Royal College of Belfast and Professor 
of Biblical Criticism in the Lancashire 
Independent College at Manchester. 
He authored many books on the text 
of the Bible. Referring to the work of 


textual criticism, Davidson concluded: 


The effect of it hasbeen to establish the 

genuineness of the New Testament 

text in allimportant particulars. No 

new doctrines have been elicited by its 

aid; nor have any historical facts been 

summoned by it from their obscurity. 
All the doctrines and duties of 
Christianity remain unaffected... 
[I]n the records of inspiration there 

isno material corruption.... [D]uring 

the lapse of many centuries the text of 
Scripture has been preserved with 

great care.... Empowered by the fruits 

of criticism, we may well say that the 

Scriptures continue essentially the 

same as when they proceeded from 

thewriters themselves (1853, 2:147, 
emp. added). 

Frederick H.A. Scrivener (1813- 
1891) was a prominent and important 
New Testament textual critic of the 
19" century. Having graduated from 
Trinity College, Cambridge, he taught 
classics at several schools in southern 
England. His expertise in textual criti- 
cism is selfevident in that he served asa 
member of the English New Testament 
Revision Committee (Revised Version), 
edited the Codex Bezae Cantabrigiensis 
and several editions of the Greek New 
Testament, collated the Codex Sinaiticus 
with the Textus Receptus, and was the 
first to distinguish the Textus Receptus 
from the Byzantine text. In his 4 Plain 
Introduction to the Criticism of the New 
Testament, Scrivener admitted: 

[One great truth is admitted on all 
hands—the almost complete freedom 
of Holy Scripture from the bare 
suspicion of wilful corruption; the 
absolute identity of the testimony 
of every known copy in respect to 
doctrine, and spirit, and the main 
drift of every argument and every 
narrative through the entire volume 
of Inspiration.... Thus hath God’s 
Providence kept from harm the 
treasure of His written word, so far 
as is needful for the quiet assurance 
of His church and people (1861, pp. 
6-7, emp. added). 

J.W. McGarvey (1829-1911) was a 
minister, author, educator, and bibli- 
cal scholar. He taught 46 years in the 
College of the Bible in Lexington, 
Kentucky, serving as President from 
1895 to 1911. He summarized the 
point: “All the authority and value 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):22 


possessed by these books when they 
were first written belong to them still” 
(1974, p. 17). 

Elias Boudinot (1740-1821) was a 
prominent Founding Father of America. 
He served in the Continental Congress 
(1778-1779, 1781-1784), as its President 
in 1782-1783, and was the founding 
president of the American Bible Society. 
In his refutation of Thomas Paine’s Age 
of Reason, Boudinot explained: “[T]he 
facts upon which the Christian reli- 
gion is founded, have a stronger proof, 
than any facts at such a distance of 
time; and that the books which convey 
them down to us, may be proved to 
be uncorrupted and authentic, with 
greater strength than any other writ- 
ings of equal antiquity” (1801, p. 239, 
emp. added). This Founding Father’s 
view of the purity of the text of the 
New Testament was the view of the 
vast majority of the Founders. 

With all the kindness one can muster, 
these imminent, well-studied, compe- 
tent, peerless scholars, whose expertise 
in the field of Textual Criticism is 
unsurpassed, are far more qualified 
and accurate in their assessment of the 
credibility, integrity, and authenticity 
of the biblical text than the author of 
the Newsweek article. 


CONCLUSION 
Het is the deeply disturbing 


predicament of our day: 

» Outstanding scholarship of bygone days 
fully demonstrated the authenticity and 
integrity of the text of the Bible, forcefully 
refuting the skeptics to the extent that the 
skeptics gained little traction in western 
civilization. The textual evidence that has 
come to light in recent decades has added 
even more weight to the arguments for 
biblical integrity. 

» But in recent years, such honest biblical 
scholarship has been succeeded by those 
who do not possess the same burning 
desire to seek the truth, but instead want 
to maintain their own infidelic agenda. 

» These biased unbelievers have the brazen 
effrontery to foist false information 
upon their unsuspecting victims who 
are completely unaware of the facts and 
ill-equipped to handle the onslaught. 

» Due to the propaganda to which the 
average citizen has been subjected (in an 


education system thatlongago abandoned 
the pursuit of the truth)—professors 
and magazine writers know they will 
go largely unchallenged by the bulk of 
society. 
Indeed, itis unfortunate that such articles 
as Eichenwald’s even need answering. 
There was a time when this type of 
anemic propaganda against the Bible 
would have immediately been dismissed 
for the slanted, biased, foolishness that 
itis. If Christians will arm themselves 
with the evidence, and “always be ready 
to give a defense” to those who are 
attacking the Truth, God may grant 
that we see those times again. 


REFERENCES 


Aland, Kurt and Barbara Aland (1987), 
The Text of the New Testament (Grand 
Rapids, MI: Eerdmans). 

Bentley, Richard (1725), Remarks Upon 
a Late Discourse of Free Thinking (Cam- 
bridge: Cornelius Crownfield). 

Boudinot, Elias (1801), The Age of Rev- 
elation (Philadelphia, PA: Asbury 
Dickins), http://www.google.com/ 
books?id=XpcPAAAATAAJ. 

Bruce, F.F. (1963), The Books and the 
Parchments (Westwood, NJ: Fleming 
H. Revell). 

Bruce, F.F. (1975 reprint), The New Tes- 
tament Documents: Are They Reliable? 
(Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans). 

Bruce, F.F. (1988), The Canon of Scripture 
(Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press). 

Butt, Kyle (2002), “The Resurrection 
Narratives,” Apologetics Press, http:// 
www.apologeticspress.org/apcontent. 
aspx?category=6&article=294. 

Butt, Kyle (2004), “Hate Your Parents or 
Love Them?” Apologetics Press, http:// 
www.apologeticspress.org/apcontent. 
aspx?category=6&article=781. 

Davidson, Samuel (1853), 4 Treatise on 
Biblical Criticism (Boston: Gould & 
Lincoln). 

Eichenwald, Kurt (2014), “The Bible: So 
Misunderstood It’s a Sin,” http://www. 
newsweek.com/2015/01/02/thats-not- 
what bible-says-294018.html. 

Ignatius (1973 reprint), “Epistle of Ignatius 
to the Magnesians,” The Ante-Nicene 
Fathers (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans). 

Jackson, Wayne (1991), “Are There Two 
Creation Accounts in Genesis?” Apolo- 
getics Press, http://apologeticspress.org/ 
apcontent.aspx?category=6&article=1131. 


Jackson, Wayne (2011), 4 New Testament 
Commentary (Stockton, CA: Christian 
Courier). 

Justin Martyr (1973 reprint), “The First 
Apology of Justin,” The Ante-Nicene 
Fathers (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans). 

Kenyon, Sir Frederic (1895), Our Bible 
and the Ancient Manuscripts (London: 
Eyre and Spottiswoode). 

Kenyon, Sir Frederic (1940), The Bible and 
Archaeology (New York: Harper & Row). 

Lyons, Eric (2003), “Mosaic Author- 
ship of the Pentateuch—Tried and 
True,” Apologetics Press, http:// 
www.apologeticspress.org/apcontent. 
aspx?category=13&article=36. 

Lyons, Eric (2005), “Did Paul Want 
Christians to Come Together on Saturday 
or Sunday?” Apologetics Press, http:// 
www.apologeticspress.org/A PContent. 
aspx?category=23&article=1575. 

Lyons, Eric (2006), “The First Day of 
the Week,” Apologetics Press, http:// 
www.apologeticspress.org/apcontent. 
aspx?category=1 1&article=2022. 

Lyons, Eric (2011), “When Did Jesus Go 
to Egypt?” Apologetics Press, http:// 
apologeticspress.org/A lleged Discrepan- 
cies.aspx?article=4132. 

McGarvey, JW. (1902), The Authorship of 
Deuteronomy (Cincinnati, OH: Standard). 

McGarvey, JW. (1910), Biblical Criticism 
(Cincinnati, OH: Standard). 

McGarvey, J.W. (1974 reprint), Evidences 
of Christianity (Nashville, TN: Gospel 
Advocate). 


Metzger, Bruce (1968), The Text of the 
New Testament (New York: Oxford 
University Press). 

Metzger, Bruce (1971), 4 Textual Com- 
mentary on the Greek New Testament 
(New York: United Bible Societies). 

Miller, Dave (2003), “The Genealogies of 
Matthew and Luke,” Apologetics Press, 
http://apologeticspress.org/A PContent. 
aspx?category=13&article=932. 

Miller, Dave (2005), “Is Mark 16:9-20 
Inspired?” Reason e Revelation, 25(12):89- 
95, December, http://apologeticspress. 
org/apPubPage.aspx?pub=1&issue=5 
72&article=433. 

Milligan, Robert (1975 reprint), The 
Scheme of Redemption (Nashville, TN: 
Gospel Advocate). 

Scrivener, F.H.A. (1861), 4 Plain Introduc- 
tion to the Criticism of the New Testament 
(Cambridge: Deighton, Bell, & Co.). 

Strobel, Lee (1998), The Case for Christ 
(Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan). 

Warfield, Benjamin B. (1886), Anz Intro- 
duction to the Textual Criticism of the 
New Testament (London: Hodder & 
Stoughton). 

Westcott, B.F. and FJ.A. Hort (1882), The 
New Testament in the Original Greek 
(New York: Harper & Brothers). 

Woods, Guy (1989), 4 Commentary on 
the Gospel According to John (Nashville, 
TN: Gospel Advocate). 

Woods, Guy (1962), Commentary on the 
New Testament Epistles of Peter, John, and 
Jude (Nashville, TN: Gospel Advocate). 


FEBRUARY 2015 R&R 35(2):23 


af ro 


NOTE FROM... ~ 


APOLOGETICS PRESS « 230 LANDMARK DRIVE * MONTGOMERY, AL 36117 


PAID 


ey 


AMANO’ 


New Book on Suffering and 2014 A.P. Web Stats 


Perhaps the number 
one —teason wily 
people reject God is 
they cannot see how 
a loving God would 
allow so much suffering 
in the world. Facing 
calamity, heartache, 
and tribulation are 
prominent factors in 
causing many people 
to reconsider personal 
beliefin God. However, 

skeptics and atheists who insist that suffering in the 
world proves that God does not exist are simply 
wrong. Why? Because the Bible provides the only 
suitable explanation(s) for why people suffer. 

In that vein, we are pleased to release a new book 
titled Why People Suffer. This volume was written 
with the average reader in mind (rather than 
addressed to intellectuals and philosophers). It 
uses a casual mode of expression and is designed to 
help the average person to sort out the confusion 
and concern that naturally arises when faced 


with hardship and pain in life. The Bible does, 
indeed, provide satisfactory explanations for the 
existence of suffering and calamity in the world. 
The volume contains thought questions at the end 
of each section suitable for classroom study. And 
it is priced to enable churches to provide copies 
for all their students. 


On another note, we are also excited to announce 
another milestone in A.P.’s efforts to impact the 
world. Last year, our Web site surpassed the 19.4 
million mark in terms of “pages viewed.” That 
means that over 19 million pages of information 
from the A.P. Web site were viewed in 2014 by 
people located in over 230 countries/territories 
worldwide. We are truly delighted that the Lord 
is seeing fit to use the A.P. site to do a significant 
amount of evangelism. If you've not visited our site 
recently, please do so. New articles, video, audio, 
books, etc. are constantly being added. 


Dave Miller 


| See the Center Spread 
for More Details 


Periodicals Postage 


