SEPTEMBER 2015°VOL. 35*NO. 9 


The linguistic context of Genesis 1 yields the conclusion 
that the Hebrew noun yom (i.e., “day”), accompanied by 
numerical adjectives and limited by further references to 
time, should be understood literally. 


[EDITOR’S NOTE: A.P. auxiliary writer 
Dr. Rogers serves as an Associate Professor 
of Bible at Freed-Hardeman University. 
He holds an M.A. in New Testament from 
Freed-Hardeman University as well as an 
M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Hebraic, Judaic, and 
Cognate Studies from Hebrew Union 
College-Jewish Institute of Religion.] 


OW old is the Earth? It has 
H become standard for many sci- 
entists to believe the Universe 
is over 10 billion years old, and the 
Earth over six billion years old. Public 
school textbooks implicitly teach 
our children the biblical account of 
Creation is at best incomplete, and at 
worst erroneous. It is no wonder that 
many Bible-believers have sought to 
harmonize the “facile” narrative of 
biblical Creation with the complex 
and engaging portrait of universal 
origins in modern “science.” 
The Bible never dates the creation 
of the world explicitly. But the Bible 
does provide a straightforward account 
of the first week of universal history. 
There is no obvious implication that the 
days are really billions of years, or that 
the first week is a quasi-mythological 
construct. Yet old-Earth creationists 
who wish to utilize the Bible need 


something in Genesis | to divinely 
approve their position. In this quest 
for evidence, many have fixated on the 
Hebrew term for “day” (ym). 
Understanding each day to be an 
“epoch” of time, the word yé7m has been 
required to carry the weight of old-Earth 
creationism and evolution—a weight 
it is incapable of bearing. With little 
attention to context, to other markers 
of time in Genesis 1, and to common 
linguistic sense, many have blindly 
accepted that the Bible endorses old- 
Earth creationism. It is not the place 
here to discuss the larger question of 
the age of the Earth. However, I hope 
to establish in this article that the 
Hebrew word yom cannot be used as 
ammunition for old-Earth creationism. 


THE NON-LITERAL USE OF YOM 


ANY researchers have noted 

that the term y6m is not always 
literal in the Hebrew Bible. This is 
true. The term can be used both in 
the singular and in the plural simply 
to mean “time” in a generic sense. In 
the King James and New King James 
versions of Genesis 39:11, the Hebrew 
is translated, “It came to pass about 
this time.” The other major versions, 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R 35(9):98 


however, more literally render the 
Hebrew word yom, “Now it happened 
one day” (e.g, NASB). Is the KJV wrong? 
No. It simply rendered the term “day” 
as “time,” which, although not the 
most literal translation, is certainly 
acceptable in the context. 

The same can be observed for the 
plural form “days” (yamim) in the 
Bible. Scripture informs us, “And Isaac 
dug again the wells of water which 
they had dug in the days | yamim] of 
Abraham his father” (Genesis 26:18). 
The passage is obviously not referring 
to the specific number of 24-hour 
periods of time that Abraham lived. 
We might differently translate “in 
the time of Abraham’ to capture the 
essential meaning. The book of Joshua 
is summarized similarly: “Israel served 
the Lord all the days of Joshua, and 
all the days of the elders who outlived 
Joshua” (Joshua 24:31). No literal 
number of days is intended, although 
a limited “period” of time is implied. 

We should note here that the non- 
literal use of the word “day” has a 
perfect parallel in English. We often 
speak of “days gone by,” meaning not, 
of course, the consecutive 24-hour 
periods of time that have elapsed, but 

“times gone by.” Likewise, one might 
look forward to “better days,” again 
referring to anonliteral period of time 
in the future. The generic use of the 
word “day” in English and Hebrew 
has led some to believe that the same 
term in Genesis 1 is also generic, and 
thus need not be taken as a literal, 
24-hour period of time. The generic 
meaning of the word “day,” however, 
is entirely irrelevant for Genesis 1 for 
reasons we will consider below. But at 
this juncture let us emphasize that the 
Creation account does use the term 
yom ina non-literal fashion. 

The work of the first week is summa- 
rizedas follows: “This is the history of 
the heavens and the earth when they 
were created, in the day [yd] that 
the Lord God made the earth and 
the heaven” (Genesis 2:4, NKJV). If 
one forces this passage into literalism, 
then God did not create the world in 
six days, but in one day! Some ancient 
readers of Genesis did, in fact, derive 


from this verse that the Creation took 
place in one day, and Genesis 1 there- 
fore must be a nor-literal account (¢.g,, 
Philo of Alexandria). Knowing little to 
no Hebrew, and not recognizing the 
nor-literal use of the word “day,” these 
thinkers drew the wrong conclusions. 
The term yom in Genesis 2:4 is not 
to be taken in the sense of a literal, 
24-hour period of time. The same can 
be said of God’s warning about the tree 
in Genesis 2:17: “for in the day [yd] 


that you eat of it you shall surely die.” 


The term is again referring generically 
to a “time” of indeterminable length 


and not to a specific 24-hour “day.” 


Now the big question: Is this non-literal 
usage relevant for Genesis 1? 


THE TERM YOM IN GENESIS | 


ORDS mean nothing outside of 
contexts. In other words, read- 
ing a sentence is similar to piecing 
together a puzzle. The picture of the 
whole emerges only after the individual 
pieces are put in their place. Such is 
the case with the term yom. It can be 
literal or non-literal, depending on 
the context. But a distinctive syntacti- 
cal feature of Genesis 1 ought to be 
observed. An adjective accompanies 
every occurrence of yém in Genesis 
1, a fact that fundamentally limits 
its meaning. 
Virtually every language uses adjectives 
to modify a noun’s scope of reference. 
I may declare, “Women are wise!” Is 
this a general truth or an absolute 
truth? The hearer doesn’t know. It is a 
generic and ambiguous statement. But 
if I add the adjective, “All women are 
wise!” it isan absolute truth applicable 
to all women. IfI say, “Some women 
are wise!” then the truth of the first 
statement is limited. In the Hebrew 
language, as in English, numbers are 
adjectives. Since every time the word 
“day” occurs in Genesis 1, a numerical 
adjective accompanies it, the generic 
application of the term “day” that 
we have observed does not apply at 
all. The scope of reference is limited. 
Allow me to illustrate. IfT say, “These 
days have gone so quickly,” you do not 
know how much time has elapsed. All 
you know is that more than one day 


has gone by. But if I declare, “These 

five days have gone so quickly,” you 

know exactly how many days have 

passed. The latter example is a much 

better illustration of the term “day” in 

Genesis 1. When the Bible declares “one 

day,” “a second day,” “a third day,” and 

so on (Genesis 1:5,8,13), the numerical 

adjective naturally limits the scope of 
reference so that the Hebrew word “day” 
cannot be taken in the generic sense 

of “one block of time,” “a second block 

of time,” and so on. The term must 

be used in accord with the numerical 

adjective that accompanies it. Its scope 

of reference is limited. 

Moses expected the original audience 
of the Pentateuch to understand his 
intention of a literal, 24-hour day in 
the Creation account. In command- 
ing the observance of the Sabbath 
day he wrote, “For in six days the 
Lord made the heavens and the earth, 
the sea, and all that is in them, and 
rested the seventh day. Therefore the 
Lord blessed the Sabbath day and 
hallowed it” (Exodus 20:11). Israel 
was to imitate God’s example of work- 
ing for six literal days, and resting on 
the seventh. If Moses’ audience had 
understood the days of Genesis 1 as 
hundreds, thousands, or billions of 
years, as many modern interpreters 
wish to do, they could have lived their 
entire lives without ever observing a 


Reason & Revelation is published monthly by Apologetics Press, Inc. Periodicals postage 
paid at Montgomery, AL. Postmaster: Send address changes to Reason & Revelation, 
230 Landmark Dr., Montgomery, AL 36117; ISSN:[1542-0922] USPS# 023415. 


Apologetics Press is a non-profit, tax-exempt work dedicated to the defense of New Testa- 
ment Christianity. Copyright © 2015. All rights reserved. 


Editor: 
Dave Miller, M.A., M.Div., M.A.R., Ph.D.” 


(*Communication, Southern Illinois University) 
Associate Editor: 
Jeff Miller, M.S., Ph.D 


(*Biomechanical Engineering, Auburn University) 


Annual Subscription Rates: 


$12.00 Domestic 
$10.00 Domestic Bulk 

(5+ to same address) 
$12.00 Canada & Overseas 


(plus shipping) 
General inquiries, changes of address, 
or international callers: 


Phone: (334) 272-8558 
Fax: (334) 270-2002 


single Sabbath! This would not be the 
intention of biblical law. Violating 
just one Sabbath required execution 
(Numbers 15:32-36). Clearly the read- 
ers of Genesis were to understand a 
literal Creation week. 


OTHER REFERENCES 10 
TIME IN GENESIS | 


c is conveniently selective for those 
who wish to age the Earth from 
Genesis 1 to focus exclusively on the 
Hebrew word for “day.” There are, in 
fact, other references to time in the 
same paragraphs in which the term 
“day” occurs. These terms help further 
to limit and define the specific mean- 
ing of the word yom in the context. 
After each day’s creative activities, 
the Bible utilizes the same formula: 
“And there was evening and there was 
morning” (Genesis 1:5,8,13,19,23,31). 
While it is true that the Hebrew term 
“day” can be used in a nonliteral sense 
in other contexts, the terms “evening” 
(rev) and “morning” (bager) are always 
used in a literal sense. The former 
occurs 134 times in the Old Testament 
and the latter around 200 times. So 
our representative sampling is high 
enough to draw absolute conclusions 
about what these words mean. 

The words erev and béger are used to 
specify holidays on the Israelite calendar 


Orders: 
Phone: (800) 234-8558 
Fax: (800) 234-2882 


On-line Web store/catalog, subscription 
order/renewal form, currentissues, archives, 
and other information (all orders processed 
on a secure server): 


URL: www.ApologeticsPress.org 
URL: espanol.ApologeticsPress.org/espanol 
E-mail: mail@ApologeticsPress.org 


Discovery—Scripture & Science for 
Kids is a sister publication for children. For 
more information, please contact our offices 
or visit the Discovery Web site at: 

URL: www.DiscoveryMagazine.com 


Sn” 


SEPTEMBER 2015 ReR 35(9):99 


(Exodus 12:18), to mark the exact 
span of one’s ceremonial uncleanness 
(Leviticus 11:31), to regulate the timing 
of the required sacrifices (Numbers 
28:23), and to mark the exact time 
of historical events (Nehemiah 8:3). 
Therefore, the Bible counts on the literal 


understanding of the terms “evening” 


and “morning,” for the Israelites’ very 
religious and secular calendar depends 
on it. There is to my knowledge 
no place in the Bible in which the 
terms “evening and morning” refer 
to a broad scope of time. They are 
always literal, both when they occur 
separate from one another, and when 
they occur together; both when they 
are singular and when they are plural. 
When these terms occur with the 
word yém, the obvious conclusion 
is that a regular, 24-hour day is in 
view (Leviticus 6:13; Numbers 19:19; 
Deuteronomy 16:14). 

Even ifone insists on explaining the 
term yom ina nor-literal fashion, this 
explanation does not permit him to 
force non-literal applications of other 
time references in the same context. 
How long was the morning of day 
1 anyway? The linguistic acrobatics 
applied to Genesis 1 are never applied 
consistently to other contexts of the 
Old Testament. Why force words to 
fit a preconceived theory of truth? 
Why not allow them to speak clearly 
from their contexts? 


CONCLUSION 
I: language, words are bound to 


their contexts. The meaning of 

biblical words is determined by 
their use in the sentence, paragraph, 
chapter, and book in which they occur. 
The term yém occurs in many contexts, 
both in the singular and in the plural, 
ina nonc-literal fashion. In the context 
of Genesis 1, however, there can be 
little doubt that the Hebrew noun yom, 
accompanied by numerical adjectives 
and limited by further references to 
time, should be understood literally. 
So those who wish to defend old-Earth 
creationism must look elsewhere to 
support their doctrine. 


[EDITOR’S NOTE: The following article 
was written by A.P. auxiliary staff scien- 
tist Dr. Deweese who holds a Ph.D. in 


Biochemistry from Vanderbilt University.] 


() NE of the foundational princi- 
ples of biology and genetics is 
the concept that parents pass 
genetic material (DNA) to offspring. 
This parent-to-offspring transmis- 
sion is also called vertical gene trans- 
fer (VGT). For many years, scientists 
have also known that genetic informa- 
tion can also be passed between organ- 
isms (usually between bacteria) in a 
process called horizontal gene trans- 
fer (HGT), previously known as lat- 
eral gene transfer (LGT). For example, 
HGT allows bacteria to share genes 
such as those that confer antibiotic 
resistance, which helps explain how 
resistance can spread in populations 
of bacteria. Another form of HGT 
takes place when a parasite is able to 
incorporate genetic information into 
a host organism (Dunning Hotopp, 
et al., 2007). 


Over the last two decades, with the 
completion of entire genome sequences 
for numerous organisms, scientists have 
been comparing DNA sequences for 
similar genes found in different organ- 
isms. These comparisons have shown 
that not all genes can be explained 
through a typical evolution-by-com- 
mon-descent model where all genetic 
information is passed through VGT. 
In other words, some organisms share 
similar genes that are not found in 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R 35(9):100 


Joe Deweese, Ph.D. 


their alleged “common ancestors,’ as 
they would be expected to if Dar- 
winian evolution is true. As Institute 
for Creation Research geneticist Dr. 
Jeff Tomkins notes, these genes are 
referred to as “orphan” genes (‘Tom- 
kins, 2013). The question then arises, 
where did these genes come from, if 
not from an ancestor? Thus, in an 
effort to explain the presence of genes 
that are not found in supposed evo- 
lutionary ancestors, some researchers 
have utilized the concept of HGT to 
explain these genes even in multicel- 
lular eukaryotes. It should be noted 
that HGT isa controversial topic and 
not all evolutionists accept the HGT 
hypothesis for the origin of genes. Addi- 
tionally, utilizing HGT to explain the 
presence of these genes is a large step 
beyond the actual “observed” cases of 
HGT. Again, while HGT is observed 
in bacteria and in a few parasite-host 
relationships, there is no observed 
mechanism for genes to spread between 
multicellular organisms in a horizon- 


tal fashion (Tomkins, 2015). 


Interestingly, a recently published 
report suggested that HGT may be 
needed to explain dozens if not hun- 
dreds of genes in humans and non- 
human primates (Crisp, et al., 2015). 
In fact, this study identifies dozens of 

“foreign” genes in the human genome. 
Note that the criteria for deciding 
whether genes are “foreign” or not 
relies on the presupposition of evo- 
lution by common descent. In other 
words, “foreign” genes are those that 

(cont. on p. 105) 


About seven thousand children participated in prayers for kids 


inthe Fatih Mosque on October 6, 2013 in Istanbul. 


« How significant is birthrate 
* among Muslims to the spread 
of Islam?” 

Studies show that the Muslim pop- 

e ulation is growing at a faster rate 
than all other groups combined. In the 
U.S. alone, Muslims will go from less 
than 1% of the nation, to 1.7% in 2030— 
an increase from 2.6 million in 2010 to 
6.2 million. Though 64.5% of U.S. Mus- 
lims today were born outside the United 
States, that percentage will fall to 55% in 
2030 as more Muslims are born in the 
U.S. (Grossman, 2011; “The Future...,” 
2011; cf. “The Future...,” 2015). 

The significance of these facts is that the 
Founders ofour great Republic set up the 
country so that the people govern them- 
selves, i.e., they select their political leaders. 
The Republic they envisioned depends 
on the majority of the people believing 
in and being self-governed by the moral 
and spiritual principles of Christianity. 
[For example, examine the 15 proclama- 
tions the Continental Congress issued 
to the entire country during the Revo- 
lutionary War, in which they repeatedly 
reiterated the essentiality of Christian- 
ity to the perpetuation of the Republic, 
including these remarks given on Octo- 
ber 20, 1779, thanking God in that “he 
hath diffused the glorious light of the gos- 
pel, whereby, through the merits of our 
gracious Redeemer, we may become the 
heirs of his eternal glory” and beseech- 
ing Him to “grant to his church the plen- 
tiful effusions of divine grace, and pour 
out his holy spirit on all ministers of the 


gospel...and spread the light of Christian 
knowledge through the remotest corners 
of the earth;...that he would in mercy 
look down upon us, pardon our sins and 
receive us into his favor, and finally, that 
he would establish the independence 
of these United States upon the basis 
of religion and virtue” (Miller, 2009, 
p. 36, emp. added). They insisted that 
the establishment of American inde- 
pendence as a new nation was based on 
Christianity] 

Observe that, with the origin of Amer- 
ica being dependent on this national foun- 
dation, ifa non-Christian group were to 
become sufficiently numerous that they 
were able to exert political control over the 
civil and educational institutions of the 
country, they obviously would alter the 
country’s way of life—including her reli- 
gious institutions. In the case of Islamic 
domination, American constitutional 
law would be supplanted by Sharia law. 

The Founders feared this very scenario, 
but felt hopeful that Americans would 
never allow such to happen. Contrary to 
the claim in recent years that the Found- 
ing Fathers of America advocated “plu- 
ralism” and equal acceptance of all reli- 
gions, ideologies, and philosophies, the 
truth is that they feared for the future 
of the nation should its Christian foun- 
dation ever be compromised. Found- 
ing Father and Supreme Court Justice 
James Iredell, who was appointed to the 
U.S. Supreme Courtby President George 
Washington, reflected this concernin the 

(cont. on p. 104) 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R’ ee rucev 35(9):101 


Doyouhave | 
A. P. magazines 
— c¢comingto 

your home? 


: 


Scancodefor 
>. er - a sa 


WA P<_ AP. Resource 
WLOREUETIE for Teens 


hile Reason & Revelation is 

aimed at college students and 
adults, and Discovery magazine is 
aimed at kids, our resource, Valor & 
Virtue (V’), was developed with teens 
in mind. Teens are on the frontlines of 
the war against naturalism, hedonism, 
and pluralism. V’ is designed to help 
prepare them for their inevitable battles 
with Satan. 


paperback 


« V’ is published 
biannually 


TO) PURGHASEISSUESICAUL 
(600) 234-6556 
OR VISIT HEMEEN SECTION) 


F UROUR WEB STOR! 
www. apologetics press. org/teen 


ORV OVOWNEGAD ERE EDI GOMES; 
= MISH BE VALOR caVinT UE SEG! non OF 
THEA VOURNAUS PAGE: 


\ F “3 www. apologeticspress.org/v2.aspx 


Ov (Continued) 


debates over the wording of the U.S. Con- 
stitution in 1788. He felt reassured that 

Islam would never be allowed to infil- 
trate America: “But itis objected that the 

people of America may perhaps choose 

representatives who have no religion at 

all, and that pagans and Mahometans 

may be admitted into offices... But it is 

never to be supposed that the people of 
America will trust their dearest rights 

to persons who have no religion at all, 
orareligion materially different from 

their own’ (Elliott, 1836, 4:194). 

While America generally has welcomed 
all nationalities of people to her shores 
regardless of their personal beliefs, alter- 
native ideologies and religions never were 
intended to be given credence or encour- 
agement and allowed to transform her 
into either an irreligious or non-Christian 
society. Nor was it intended that Ameri- 
can civilization be adjusted to accommo- 
date religious principles that contradict 
the original foundations of the nation. 
America welcomes people to live in free- 
dom within her borders—as longas they 
do so peaceably (see Miller, 2013, 33[3]:32). 
But to adjust social parameters in public 
life to accommodate divergent religions 
will weaken, not strengthen, the ability 
of America to sustain herself. 

Founding Father Noah Webster artic- 
ulated this indisputable fact in a letter 
to James Madison on October 29, 1829: 

“(T]he Christian religion, in its purity, is 
the basis, or rather the source of all gen- 
uine freedom in government....andI am 
persuaded that no civil government of 
a republican form can exist and be 
durable in which the principles of 
that religion have not a controlling 
influence” (as quoted in Snyder, 1990, 
p. 253). The “Father of American Geog- 
raphy” Jedidiah Morse succinctly stated: 

“Whenever the pillars of Christianity 
shall be overthrown, our present repub- 
lican forms of government, and all the 
blessings which flow from them, must 
fall with them” (1799, p. 9, emp. added). 
And Declaration of Independence signer 
John Witherspoon declared: “[H]e is the 
best friend to American liberty, who is 
most sincere and active in promoting true 


and undefiled religion [i.e., Christian- 
ity—James 1:27], and who sets himself 
with the greatest firmness to bear down 
profanity and immorality of every kind” 
(1777, pp. 16,33, emp. added). 

It would seem self-evident that if Mus- 
lims succeed in transforming America 
into an Islamic nation, America will be 
no different from, and will look exactly 
like, all the other Islamic nations on Earth. 
What true-hearted American (or Chris- 
tian) hasa desire to move to sucha nation? 


Dave Miller 


REFERENCES 


Elliott, Jonathan (1836), The Debates in the 
Several State Conventions on the Adoption 
of the Federal Constitution (Washington, 
D.C.: Jonathan Elliot). 

“The Future of the Global Muslim Pop- 
ulation” (2011), Pew Research Cen- 
ter, January 27, http://www.pewforum. 
org/2011/01/27/the-future-of-the-global- 
muslim-population/. 

“The Future of World Religions: Population 
Growth Projections, 2010-2050” (2015), 
Pew Research Center, April 2, http:// 
www.pewforum.org/2015/04/02/reli- 
gious-projections-2010-2050/. 

Grossman, Cathy (2011), “Number of U.S. 
Muslims to Double,” USA TODAY, Janu- 
ary 27, http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/ 
news/religion/2011-01-27-1Amuslim27_ 
ST_Nihem: 

Miller, Dave (2009), Christ and the Conti- 
nental Congress (Montgomery, AL: Apol- 
ogetics Press). 

Miller, Dave (2013), “Were the Found- 
ing Fathers ‘Tolerant’ of Islam? [Part IJ,” 
Reason & Revelation, 33|3]:26-28,32- 
35, March. 

Morse, Jedidiah (1799), 4 Sermon, Exhib- 
iting the Present Dangers and Consequent 
Duties of the Citizens of the United States 
of America (Hartford, CT: Hudson and 
Goodwin), http://www.archive.org/ 
details/sermonexhibiting0Omorsrich. 

Snyder, K. Alan (1990), Defining Noah 
Webster: Mind and Morals in the Early 
Republic (New York: University Press 
of America). 

Witherspoon, John (1777), The Domin- 
ion of Providence over the Passions of Men 
(Philadelphia, PA: Town & Country), 
http://books.google.com/books/about/ 
The _Dominion_of Providence Over_ 
the_Pass.html?id=HpRIAAAAYA AJ. 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R ee rvucee 35(9):104 


cannot be explained by standard VGT 


from alleged “common ancestors.” 


Thus, these authors suggest that such 
genes must be explained by HGT 
(Crisp, et al.). 

This study has been reviewed by Tom- 
kins, who has been part of bacterial 
HGT studies in the past (Dunning 
Hotopp, et al., 2007). He observes 
several problems with this current 
study, including the way genes are 
compared using only homologous 
sequence segments rather than the 
entire gene sequence (Tomkins, 2015). 
In addition, the genes identified in 
the study include a number of essen- 
tial enzyme activities—including 
enzymes involved in amino acid, lipid, 
and nucleotide metabolism (Crisp, et 
al.). These enzymes are integral com- 
ponents of metabolic pathways rather 
than expendable transplants from dis- 
tant organisms. Further, the authors 
do not suggest any mechanism for 
how HGT would supposedly work 
between multicellular organisms. As 
Tomkins points out, HGT between 
multicellular organisms would require 
the new genes to be brought into the 
germline cells, incorporated into the 
genome, and then transmitted to off- 
spring (2015). There are barriers to 
these events happening at many lev- 
els. Finally, these genes would need to 
be expressed, regulated, and become 
incorporated into the existing meta- 
bolic networks. Each of these barriers 


poses significant challenges to the use 
of HGT to explain the spread of genes. 
The fact is, there is currently no evi- 
dence that HGT can occur in the wild 
between multicellular organisms. Fur- 
ther, there are no observed mecha- 
nisms for this transfer to take place. 
The fact that the genes identified in the 
study quoted above impacted impor- 
tant enzymes and metabolic pathways 
implies that these genes are part of 
complex and integrated networks— 
they do not represent minor func- 
tions in many cases. Taken together, 
it is clear that relying on HGT to 


PEAI 


PEAKING § 
es Butt 
September 13 
September 16 
Eric Lyons 
September 25-27 
Dave Miller 
September 9 
September 18-20 


September 25-27 Jay, FL (850) 675-6443 
Jeff Miller 

September 3,10 Montgomery, AL (334) 272-8558 

September 17,24 Montgomery, AL (334) 272-8558 


September 4-5 


SEPTEMBER 2015 Re 35(9):105 


CHEDULES 


Clarksville, TN 
Huntsville, AL 


Colorado Springs, CO 


Huntsville, AL 
Woodland, CA 


Charlotte, NC 


explain the spread of “foreign” genes 
is a stretch, at best, and currently is 
lacking key pieces of evidence. This 
is not the first time—and will not be 
the last time—that evolutionists strain 
to interpret straightforward evidence. 
The fact that genes cannot be attrib- 
uted to VGT and common descent 
could, instead, be interpreted to mean 
that these genes were placed there by 
design, which would be the simplest 
and most obvious explanation. 


REFERENCES 

Crisp, A., C. Boschetti, M. Perry, A. 
Tunnacliffe, and G. Micklem (2015), 

“Expression of Multiple Horizontally 
Acquired Genes Is a Hallmark of Both 
Vertebrate and Invertebrate Genomes,” 
Genome Biology, 16[1]:50. 

Dunning Hotopp, J.C., M.E. Clark, D.C. 
Oliveira, et al. (2007), “Widespread 
Lateral Gene Transfer from Intracel- 
lular Bacteria to Multicellular Eukary- 
otes,’ Science, 317[5845]:1753-1756. 

Tomkins, J.P. (2013), “Newly Discov- 
ered ‘Orphan Genes’ Defy Evolution,’ 
http://www.icr.org/article/newly-dis- 
covered-orphan-genes-defy. 

Tomkins, J.P. (2015), “Another Horizon- 
tal Gene Transfer Fairy Tale? http:// 
www.icr.org/article/8673. 


(931) 647-5264 
(256) 895-8717 


(719) 634-6138 


(256) 895-8717 
(530) 661-7488 


(704) 599-0529 


The Mosaic Authorship 
of the Joseph Story 


Dewayne Bryant, M.A. 


The Mosaic authorship of the Joseph story in the book of 
Genesis is strongly confirmed by the presence of numer- 
ous details that show the author’s intimate acquaintance 


with Egyptian culture. 


[EDITOR’S NOTE: A.P. auxiliary staff 
writer Dewayne Bryant holds two Masters 
degrees, and is completing Masters study 
in Ancient Near Eastern Archaeology 
and Languages at Trinity Evangelical 
Divinity School, as well as doctoral stud- 
ies at Amridge University where he is a 
Ph.D. candidate. He holds professional 
membership in both the American Schools 
of Oriental Research as well as the Society 
of Biblical Literature.] 


EW success stories in the Bible 
3 are more memorable than 

that of Joseph. Betrayed by 
his brothers and later accused of a 
crime he did not commit, Joseph 
narrowly avoided death on two sep- 
arate occasions. In spite of the per- 
sonal hardships he suffered, God 
had a plan to use him to save count 
less lives. Thanks to divine provi- 
dence, he stood triumphant at the 
right hand of the pharaoh as one of 
the most powerfu le not only in 
Egypt, but in the world. 

As with most of the early books of 
the Bible—particularly from Gene- 
sis to the early chapters of 1 Samuel— 
skeptics and critics label the Joseph 
story as the work of later authors (see 
Finkelstein and Silberman 2001, pp. 
67-68). According to the documen- 


tary hypothesis (popularly known as 
the JEDP on) the Pentateuch as 
a whole is composed of several dif 
ferent documents edited together 
by redactors, or editors. The Joseph 
story is no exception. Critics claim 
it is the product of multiple authors 
living between the 10" and 6" cen- 
turies B.C., if not later. 

The Bible recognizes Moses as the 
author of the Pentateuch (Exodus 
24:7,27-28; Numbers 33:2; Joshua 
8:32; 2 Chronicles 34:14). Critics 
reject the Mosaic authorship of this 
material, with most denying the exis- 
tence of Moses as well. This denial is 
built upon the assumptions inher- 
ent in the documentary hypothesis, 
whose adherents rarely take Egyp- 
tian evidence into account. The fine 
details of the Joseph story do not 
point to a Hebrew scribe writing 
in the 10-6" centuries B.C. Rather, 
they point to an author who was inti- 
mately familiar with Egypt and who 
included Egyptian loanwords and 
other details of Egyptian culture 
in his work. To summarize some of 
the important Egyptian details in 
the Joseph story, consider the fol- 
lowing points: 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R 35(9):106 


Joseph is sold for 20 shekels (Gene- 
sis 37:28). Babylonian records indi- 
cate that this was the average going 
rate foraslave in the first half of the 
second millennium (Kitchen, 2003, 
pp. 344-345), but later rose due to 
inflation. The prices given in the 
Bible in later texts correspond to the 
prices at the time those texts were 
written. Atthe ancient cities of Nuzi 
and Ugarit in the mid- to late-sec- 
ond millennium, the price was 30 
shekels and more, which is reflected 
in the Mosaic law (Mendelsohn, 
1955, p. 68; cf. Exodus 21:32). Still 
later in the first millennium, the 
price went up to 50-60 shekels, 
which seems to be reflected in the 
ransom for Menahem of Israel (2 
Kings 15:20). Later authors would 
not have been able to research these 
minute details in order to make the 
account believable, nor would any- 
one have thought about doing so. If 
the Joseph story had been written 
when critics claim (closer to the 6" 
century B.C.), the price asked by his 
brothers should have been some- 
where around 60 shekels instead 
of 20 (Kitchen, 2003, p. 345; cf. 
en 1995, 21[02]). iat the Joseph 
story was written fe the exile, we 
would expect the price to have been 
as high as 90-120 shekels. On a fur- 
ther note, Leviticus 27:4 establishes 
the price of 20 shekels for a male 
slave younger than 20 years of age 
(Joseph was 17— Genesis 37:2; see 
Wenham, 1978, pp. 264-265). 
Joseph is thrown into prison, which 
the Egyptians called the “Place of 
Confinement” (Aling, 2002, p.99). 
These were rare in the ancient Near 
East and seem to have been found 
only in Egypt. The Mosaic Law 
never mentions prisons, and does 
not seem to have a close parallel to 
our modern concept of them. If 
later Israelite authors had invented 
the Joseph story, it would have been 
highly unlikely that they would 
have included this feature. 
Joseph likely serves as an overseer 
(Egyptian imy-re per) in Potiphar’s 
ouse. His service and promotion 
fits very well in an Egyptian context 
(see the discussion of relevant titles 
for this office, as well as Joseph’s pro- 
motion, in Hoffmeier, 1996 and 
Kitchen, 2003). 
Joseph is able to interpret dreams. 
This was a vital aspect of life in 


ancient Egypt. Those who did so 
were specialists who consulted 
dream books, examples of which 
have been discovered by archaeol- 
ogists (e.g., Papyrus Chester Beatty 
IH, currently housed in the British 
Museum). Joseph proves his supe- 
riority by interpreting the king’s 
dreams without any access to these 
reference works. 

Joseph is brought before pharaoh 
after being shaved and dressed 
appropriately (Genesis 41:14), some- 
thing that was done in Egypt but 
not among Semitic peoples (see 
Fried, 2007). The Beni Hasan tomb 
painting depicts Canaanite mer- 
chants around the same timeas the 
patriarchs wearing beards and hay- 
ing full heads of hair. Although 
pharaohs were depicted wearing 
beards, it is clear that these were 
false (whether in paintings or on 
statuary, a close inspection will 
reveal the strap along the jawline 
that held the beard in place). 
Jacob and Joseph are both 
embalmed or mummified. The text 
also mentions Joseph’s coffin (Gen- 
esis 50:26). Although extremely 
sparse, the details given in the Bible 
match what scholars know about 
the process from ancient records. 
The biblical text states that 40 days 
were required for mummification 
(Genesis 50:3). This seems to be a 
rounded number that agrees with 
an Egyptian text known as “The 
Ritual ofEmbalming,” which states 
that the beginning of the embalm- 
ing process began four days after 
death and continued for 42 days 
(Brier, 1994, p. 45). 

Joseph is described as being 110 
years old. We know from ancient 
Egyptian records that this was the 
ideal age at the time of death, essen- 
tially a way of saying that a person 
had lived a rich, full life. The Bible 
later records this figure at 70 or 80 
years (cf. Psalm 90:10). Over half 
of the references to this lifespan in 
Egyptian literature occur during 
the same general period as the onein 
which Moses lived (Kitchen, 2003, 
p.351). Thus, this number preserves 
an expression that appears to have 
been the most popular during the 
period in which Moses received his 
education. 

Linguistic clues provide important 
insight into when the Joseph narra- 


tive may have been put into written 

form. The word for the Nile River 
used in the text when Pharaoh dis- 
cusses his dreamsis yeor rather than 

the more common Hebrew term 

nahar. The word yeor is an Egyp- 
tian loanword for “river” that was 

used in the Eighteenth Dynasty 
(1550-1295 B.C.) onward (Sarna, 
1966, p. 218). Likewise, the term 

for the grass eaten by the cows is 

akhu, another Egyptian loanword. 
Sarna notes that the reference to cat- 
tle may be significant as well. They 
were an important part ofthe Egyp- 
tian economy, while sheep played 

a minor role. The situation was 

reversed in Palestine. 

e One of the supports for the early 
second millennium devotion to 
writing of the Joseph material is the 
phrase “the land of Rameses” (Gen- 
esis 47:11) which came into com- 
mon use in the 13" century and 
fell into disuse after the 12" cen- 
tury (Kitchen, 1991, p. 118). 

The Egyptian details of the Joseph 
story are what we would expect to 
find if someone educated in Egypt 
had been the one to put this story 
into written form (cf. Acts 7:22). 
Alan R. Schulman states: “It is quite 
clear that the person who either 
wrote, or wrote down, the Joseph 
sagas had an exceedingly intimate 
knowledge of Egyptian life, liter- 
ature, and culture, particularly in 
respect to the Egyptian court, and, 
in fact, may even have lived in Egypt 
for a time’ (1975, p. 236). This is 
precisely what we find in the Bible’s 
statements about the life of Moses. 
Put simply, the Joseph story could 
not have been the invention of a 
Hebrew scribe in the first millen- 
nium. 

Taken together, the details above 
generate some important questions 
about the authorship of the Joseph 
story and the assumptions made by 
many modern interpreters. Why 
does the text include terms popu- 
larized in the Egyptian language cae 
ing the time in which Moses would 
have lived? Why do Egyptian con- 
cepts fill these stories when they are 
absent in later texts that critics claim 
to have been written at the same time 
as the Pentateuch? Why is it that 


SEPTEMBER 2015 R&R 35(9):107 


chronologically-sensitive details in 
the Joseph story fit well within a con- 
text of the early second millennium, 
while critics claim it was written in 
the early first millennium? These 
questions demand a reevaluation of 
the skeptic’s position, which tends 
to be haunted by the twin spectres 
of unfounded skepticism and anti- 
biblical bias. The Bible presents a 
far more believable author of this 
material than the contrivances of 
its critics. 


REFERENCES 


Aling, Charles (2002), “Joseph in Egypt: 
Part Ill,” Bible and Spade, 15[4]. 

Brier, Bob (1994), Egyptian Mummies: 
Unraveling the Secret of an Ancient Art 
(New York: Quill). 

Finkelstein, Israel and Neil Asher Sil- 
berman (2001), The Bible Unearthed: 

Archaeology’s New Vision of Ancient Israel 
and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts (New 
York: The Free Press). 

Fried, Lisbeth S. (2007), “Why Did Joseph 
Shave?” Biblical Archaeology Review, 
33(4], July-August. 

Hoffmeier, James K. (1996), Israel in 
Egypt: The Evidence for the Authenticity 
of the Exodus Tradition (Oxford: Oxford 
University Press). 

Kitchen, Kenneth A. (1991), “Israel Seen 
from Egypt: Understanding the Biblical 
Text from Visuals and Methodology,” 
Tyndale Bulletin, 42(1], May. 

Kitchen, Kenneth A. (1995), “Patriarchal 
Age: Myth or History,” Biblical Archae- 
ology Review, 21[02], March/April. 

Kitchen, Kenneth A. (2003), Ox the Reli- 
ability of the Old Testament (Grand Rap- 
ids, MI: Eerdmans). 

Mendelsohn, Isaac. (1955), “On Slavery in 
Alalakh,” Israel Exploration Journal,5(2). 

Sarna, Nahum M. (1966), Understanding 
Genesis: The World of the Bible in the Light 
of History (New York: Schocken Books). 

Schulman, A. R. (1975), “On the Egyp- 
tian Name of Joseph: A New Approach,” 
Studien zur Altagyptischen Kultur, 2. 

Wenham, Gordon J. (1978), “Leviticus 
27.2-8 and the Price of Slaves,” Zeitschrift 
fir die Alttestamentliche Wissenschaft,90. 


The Bible plainly teaches that all people are to 
be mindful of God even in their youth (Eccle- 
siastes 12:1). The young are extremely impor- 
tant to God and to the service He desires from 
humans. Indeed, young people have been some 
of the most valuable and courageous servants of 
God in human history (e.g., 1 Samuel 17). Yet, 
American culture has fed teenagers the lie that 
their actions are unimportant, they can wait until 
they are older to be productive citizens, and their 
teen years are a time for carelessness and worldly 
fun. In contrast to this false view, God’s Word 
explains that teens can be model soldiers in the 
army of the Lord (1 Timothy 4:12). 

In light of this truth, we at Apologetics Press dil- 
igently strive to give young people the tools they 
need to defend the foundational beliefs of the 
Christian faith. Hence, in addition to our Dis- 
covery magazine that is designed for 4 through 
6" graders, we also publish V’, which stands 
for Valor & Virtue. V" is specifically designed to 
provide teens with exciting evidences that will 
strengthen their faith and give them confidence 
to defend it, as they sincerely strive to pattern 


NOTEFROM. //. 5, 


V?—A.P’s Teen Magazine 


APOLOGETICS PRESS « 230 LANDMARK DRIVE * MONTGOMERY, AL 36117 


Periodicals Postage 
PAID 


their lives after Christ. This visually attractive 
and intriguing publication is packed with useful 
information that will aid teens in their efforts to 
cope with the many challenges they face every day. 

Please consider, not only securing copies for your 
own teen(s), but giving some to their friends and 
other teens you may encounter. 


Dave Miller 


JERICHO eee” — 


| See the Center Spread | 
for More Details 


