REASON & REVELATION 


A Monthly Journal of Christian Evidences 


DECEMBER 2015*VOL. 35+ NO. 12 


LINGUISTICALLY 
VIABLE? 


AP. Neel end Seminars 


“Promisin g News 
for the Unborn 


ls Gap Theory 


Linguistically Viable? 


Justin Rogers, Ph.D? 


Efforts to infuse the Genesis Creation account with vast 
eons of evolutionary time include assertions about the 
correct meanings of the Hebrew terms bara and asah 


and the insertion of a gap of time between verses 1 and 
2 in Genesis chapter 1. However, the arguments offered 
to support these contentions do not hold up under lin- 
guistic scrutiny. 


[EDITOR’S NOTE: A.P. auxiliary writer 
Dr. Rogers serves as an Associate Professor 
of Bible at Freed-Hardeman University. 
He holds an M.A. in New Testament from 
Freed-Hardeman University as well as an 
M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Hebraic, Judaic, and 
Cognate Studies from Hebrew Union 
College-Jewish Institute of Religion.] 
At inquiry isa desire to express 
free thought. “Go wher- 
ever your mind leads you” is the 
academic cry that hearkens back at 
least to the Enlightenment. For Bible 
believers, however, this mantra has 
its limits. If one’s pursuit of so-called 
“knowledge” leads him to deny the 
divinity of Christ or the existence of 
God, then he has become a victim of 
intellectual deceit. The philosophical 
constructs causing him to reach these 
conclusions must be reexamined if 
not rejected. Such is the case with 
many modern theories of universal 
origins. By eliminating God as the 
primal Cause, these theories operate 


the center of scientific 


under false pretenses, and thus can 
never reach the truth. 

Many Christians working in the 
field of scientific cosmology seek to 
poach godless theories from mod- 
ern science and work them into a 
model of biblical faith. We should 
applaud their efforts so long as they 
do not “go beyond what is written” 
(1 Corinthians 4:6). Unfortunately, 
some do go too far. In their desire 
to harmonize the biblical account 
with the scientific “necessity” of old- 
Earth creationism, they seek to read 
into the Bible concepts not clearly 
present. Rather than using divine 
inspiration to inform science, they 
prefer to impose modern scientific 
insight onto the Bible—an insight, 
it should be observed, the original 
readers of the Bible would not have 
understood. 


WHAT IS GAP THEORY? 


One example of the harmonistic 
approach between modern “science” 


DECEMBER 2015 R&R 35(12):134 


and biblical faith is the so-called 
“Gap Theory.” Although there are 
numerous iterations of this idea, each 
of them suggests Genesis 1 contains 
a gap or multiple gaps in which can 
be squeezed the amount of time 
necessary to accommodate an Earth 
billions of years old. Although the 
biblical text does not require or even 
intimate such gaps, proponents of Gap 
Theory insist that the science requires 
it. In other words, they allow the tail 
to wag the dog, allowing “science” to 
trump plain biblical teaching. 

Of course, for theists who claim to 
accept the biblical account of Creation, 
much is at stake. If Gap Theory is cor- 
rect, then the Bible must be made to 
accommodate it. Since anyone with 
common sense and an English Bible 
would find it difficult to accept Gap 
Theory from the Genesis account 
alone, Gap theorists often transfer 
the debate to the mysterious world 
of Hebrew linguistics. Playing on the 
ignorance of the general Bible reader 
(and often revealing their own), Gap 
theorists insist the Hebrew terminol- 
ogy makes Gap Theory possible. 

I must admit: when I first encoun- 
tered the arguments from biblical 
Hebrew to defend Gap Theory, I was 
confused. Even liberal Bible scholars do 
not use linguistic arguments to deny 
the literal understanding of Genesis 
1. James Barr, a world-renowned Old 
Testament scholar, writes, 

So far as I know there is no profes- 
sor of Hebrew or Old Testament at 
any world-class university who does 
not believe that the writer(s) [sic] of 
Genesis 1-11 intended to convey 
to their readers the ideas that (a) 
creation took place in a series of six 
days which were the same as the days 
of 24 hours we now experience; (b) 
the figures contained in the Genesis 
genealogies provide by simple addition 
a chronology from the beginning of 
the world up to the later stages of the 
Biblical story, and (c) Noah’s flood 


was understood to be worldwide, 

and to have extinguished all human 

and land animal life except for those 

in the ark (as quoted in Platinga, 

2001, p. 217). 
These reasons explain why critical 
biblical scholarship tends to discuss 
the genre of Genesis 1-11, that is, 
whether it is intended to be history or 
mythology, whether it is literal or sym- 
bolic, whether it contains any truth 
or some truth. The meaning of the 
words themselves, however, is under 
no major dispute. But Gap theorists 
maintain the Creation account is both 
historical and (apparently) incompre- 
hensible (at least, without the “expert” 
guidance of the Gap theorist). They 
insist the key to unlocking Genesis 
1 is not what it does say, but what it 
doesn’t say. What a strange method 
of interpretation. 


WHAT GAP THEORISTS ALLEGE 


HERE are two major linguistic 
arguments cited in favor of Gap 
Theory. First, Gap theorists begin 
by understanding the term bara’ in 
Genesis 1 to mean “create” (from 


nothing), and asah to mean “restore” 


(at a later time). The bara’ creation 
marks the initial stage of Creation 
in which God set the world into 
motion by fiat. One of the earliest 
Gap theorists, George H. Pember, 
wrote over 100 years ago: “For we 
are told that in the beginning God 
created the heaven and the earth; 
but the Scriptures never affirm that 
He did this in the six days. The work 
of those days was...quite a different 
thing from the original creation: they 
were times of restoration, and the 
word asah [sic] is used in connection 
with them” (1907, pp. 22-23). 
Within churches of Christ, John 
Clayton has been an active propo- 
nent of the insights of Gap Theory, 
although his actual position defies 
precise categorization. Thompson 
refers to it as the “modified Gap 
Theory,” although Clayton himself 


is rather coy about labeling his posi- 
tion (2000, pp. 281-296). Like others, 
Clayton also appeals to the Hebrew 

language to defend his version of 
the theory. Unfortunately, like the 

Gap theorists, he too states bara’ is 

a miraculous creation from noth- 
ing, even going so far as to suggest 

Genesis 1:1 implies the “Big Bang” 
(Clayton, 2015, p. 90). Like the Gap 

theorists, Clayton also parrots the view 
that asah means “reworking existing 

material” (2011, p. 207). If Clayton 

were to read the rest of the Hebrew 

Bible, or even the rest of Genesis, he 

would learn that his definitions are 

impossible to maintain (as we shall 

demonstrate). 

By interpreting the Hebrew in this 
fashion, Gap theorists believe they 
can accommodate an Earth billions 
of years old without compromising 
the essential integrity of the Genesis 
account. The bara’ stage of Creation 
occurs first (Genesis 1:1), and, after 
centuries or even billions of years, the 
asah stage of Creation occurs (the “six 
days,” Genesis 1:2ff.). Unfortunately, 
Gap theorists focus their attention, 
so far as the Hebrew is concerned, 
principally on Genesis 1 and Exodus 
20:11 (taken as proof of the asah stage 


of Creation). Again, if they were to 
read the entire Hebrew Bible, how- 
ever, they would learn their position 
to be linguistically untenable, as we 
shall demonstrate. 

Second, Gap theorists allege the 
grammar of Genesis 1:2 implies a 
gap. Basically, three arguments are 
made from the Hebrew: (1) The 
Hebrew waw is disjunctive, and 
thus implies an interruption in the 
narration from what is reported in 
Genesis 1:1. This interruption signals a 
chronological “gap”; (2) The verb form 

“was” (hay‘tah) should be translated 
“became,” signaling a new beginning 
beyond the bara’creation of Genesis 
1:1; and (3) The nouns traditionally 
translated “without form and void” 
(téhi va-voha) imply a degeneration 
of the original Creation, and thus 
what follows is a re-creation. 

We shall proceed to discuss and 
evaluate these Hebrew linguistic 
arguments, beginning first with the 
question of bara’and sah, and then 
turning to the grammar of Genesis 
1:2 specifically. In the course of our 
analysis, the linguistic evidence for 
the Gap Theory will be shown to 
be lacking? 


Reason & Revelation is published monthly by Apologetics Press, Inc. Periodicals postage 
paid at Montgomery, AL. Postmaster: Send address changes to Reason & Revelation, 
230 Landmark Dr., Montgomery, AL 36117; ISSN:[1542-0922] USPS# 023415. 


Apologetics Press is a non-profit, tax-exempt work dedicated to the defense of New Testa- 
ment Christianity. Copyright © 2015. All rights reserved. 


Editor: 
Dave Miller, M.A., M.Div., M.A.R., Ph.D. 


(*Communication, Southern Illinois University) 
Associate Editor: 
Jeff Miller, M.S., Ph.D- 


(*Biomechanical Engineering, Auburn University) 


Annual Subscription Rates: 


$12.00 Domestic 
$10.00 Domestic Bulk 

(5+ to same address) 
$12.00 Canada & Overseas 


(plus shipping) 
General inquiries, changes of address, 
or international callers: 


Phone: 
Fax: 


(334) 272-8558 
(334) 270-2002 


Orders: 
Phone: (800) 234-8558 
Fax: (800) 234-2882 


On-line Web store/catalog, subscription 
order/renewal form, currentissues, archives, 
and other information (all orders processed 
ona secure server): 


URL: www.ApologeticsPress.org 
URL: espanol.ApologeticsPress.org/espanol 
E-mail: mail@ApologeticsPress.org 


Discovery—Scripture & Science for 
Kids is a sister publication for children. For 
more information, please contact our offices 
or visit the Discovery Web site at: 

URL: www.DiscoveryMagazine.com 


DECEMBER 2015 R&R 35(12):135 


THE VOCABULARY OF CREATION 


HE Genesis account uses no 
less than four terms to describe 
Creation. The terms best known are 
bara’ (“create”) and asah (“make”), 
although yatsar (“form”) and banah 
(“build”) are also found. Man is 
“formed” (ydtsar) from the dirt 
(Genesis 2:7-8), and woman is “built” 
(banah) from man (Genesis 2:22). 
The bulk of attention, however, has 
centered around bara’ and sah, the 
most frequent of these four words in 
the Creation account. Gap theorists 
allege these terms refer to very different 
stages of Creation, billions of years 
apart. We shall see that, while this 
theory is attractive at the macro-level, 
the Hebrew terminology simply will 
not bear the burden of proof Gap 
theorists load upon it. 
bara’and asah 

We should begin by noting that the 
Bible uses multiple terms to describe 
God's creative activity. Across the Old 
Testament, in Hebrew and Aramaic, 
one can locate no less than 13 differ- 
ent terms for Creation! So Israelite 
Creation theology is not as simple as 
makinga facile distinction between 
bara’ and asah. In fact, these terms 
are used interchangeably of God’s 
creative activity. 

Even in the Genesis account itself, 
bara’ and Gsah are used together 
to summarize God’s creative work: 

“These are the generations of the 
heavens and the earth when they 
were created” (bara’), that is, at the 
time when (literally, “in the day that”) 
Yahweh God made (sah) earth 
and heaven” (Genesis 2:4; transla- 
tion mine). The careful reader will 
notice that the second half of this 
verse explains and completes the first. 
We have here what literary scholars 
call a chiasm, in which the sentence 
can be broken into two or more 
parts, and the various components 
of the sentence parallel one another 


in introverted fashion (for more on 
chiasm, see Dorsey, 1999). Allow me 
to illustrate: 

These are the generations of... 

a—the heavens and the earth 
b—when they were created 
b’—at the time when Yahweh 
God made 
a —the earth and the heavens 
Notice that the first and final compo- 
nents (aand a) are flipped, signaling 
the inverted nature of the verse, and 
they also highlight the verse’s synony- 
mous parallelism (both halves convey 
exactly the same idea). Also note the 
parallelism of b and b’. The whole 
of the Creation narrative could be 
described by both Hebrew terms. So 
the forced distinction made by Gap 
theorists between bara’and 4sah is 
already shown to be artificial in the 
Genesis account itself. But we can 
go further. 

The terms bara’and asah are routinely 
used in parallel with one another, 
both in Genesis and elsewhere in 
the Hebrew Bible. 

e God both “created” (bara’) and 
“made” (Zsah) Adam (Genesis 
521), 

e God will destroy man whom 
He has “created” (bara’), along 
with every living thing, for He 
was sorry that He had “made” 
(sah) them (Genesis 6:7). 

e The hand of God “has done” 
(asah) it, and God Himself 

“created” (bara’) it (Isaiah 41:20). 

e God has “created” (bara’) and 
“made” (asah) for His glory 
(Isaiah 43:7). 

e God has “made” (@sah) Earth 
and “created” (bara’) man on 
it (Isaiah 45:12). 

e God “made” (sah) and “created” 
(bara’) the Earth (Isaiah 45:18). 

e God “creates” (bara’) wind and 
“makes” (Zsah) darkness (Amos 
4:13), 

Asany careful reader of the Bible will 
observe, the Hebrew language does 


DECEMBER 2015 R&R 35(12):136 


not make a sharp distinction between 
bara’ and asah in accounts depict- 
ing the Creation. On the contrary, 
the terms are used interchangeably 
for Creation throughout the Old 
Testament, and can often be found 
in parallel expressions. 

Now, this does not mean that bara’ 
and asah are always synonymous 
terms. The word bara’ occurs 53 
times in the Bible, and generally has 
to do with an initial act, or a new 
beginning. For example, God “creates 
something new” at the punishment 
of Korah and his company (Numbers 
16:30). He “makes a new beginning” 
of Israel after the Babylonian Exile 
(Isaiah 41:20). The term represents 
a change—a new beginning—in the 
natural order as well (Isaiah 65:15; 
Jeremiah 31:22). 

So, in addition to creation, which is 
always an “initial act” on God’s part, 
subsequent divine intervention after 
creation can also be depicted by the 
word bara’. This explains why the 
term can be used of the creation of 
man. He was a new creature, a new 
beginning, in the process. If Gap 
theorists were correct, any usage of 
bara after the initial Genesis Creation 
would be inappropriate. This clearly 
is not the case. 

The term asah, by comparison, has 
a much broader semantic range. This 
term occurs 2,627 times, making it 
one of the most common verbs in 
the Bible. In addition to meaning 
“make,” asah is the standard verb 
for “do, act, or perform” in Hebrew. 
It often means to “keep” the Law 
(Deuteronomy 5:32), to manufacture 
a product (1 Samuel 8:12), to “carve” 
(Ezekiel 41:18), to “work” miracles 
(Deuteronomy 34:11), to “make” 
money in the colloquial English 
sense (Deuteronomy 8:17), to “make” 
a name for oneself (Genesis 11:4), 
to “make” dinner or a meal (Judges 
6:19), to “make” peace (Isaiah 27:5), 
to “work” a job (Ruth 2:19), and 


Select Scriptural Passage(s) English Translation 
Ss Deuteronomy 4:32 “ » 
be 2 Kings 19:15 « » 


“formed” 


2ud / paal Exodus 15:17; Proverbs 16:4 
Exodus 4:11; Proverbs 8:29 “fixed, appointed” 


Isaiah 43:75 45:18 


Genesis 2:22; Amos 9:6 


“founded” 
“built” 


ae Deuteronomy 32:18 « » 


Destin 94D; Proverbs 3119 


210 / chul Job 15:7; Psalm 90:2 “brought forth” 
Job 9:8; Isaiah 42:5 “stretched out” (heavens) 


Denes 325 Prd hell “one 


yay / avad 


many other possible nuances. In short, 
many of the same meanings we can 


assign to the English verbs “make,” 


“do,” “work,” “perform,” “act,” and 
the like can also be ascribed to the 
Hebrew sah. 

The word sah basically has to do 
with producing something through 
work, and it may or may not imply 
pre-existing material. Passages echo- 
ing Genesis 1:1 routinely use asah 
instead of bara’ (e.g., 1 Chronicles 
16:26; Nehemiah 9:6; Psalm 33:6; 
Isaiah 45:12). This fact implies that, 
while these two terms can be used 
interchangeably of Creation, one 
emphasizes the production of anew 
thing (whether at Creation or after- 
ward), and the other refers to the 
work involved in producing a thing 
(whether at Creation or afterward). 


Isaiah 45:18; Jeremiah 10:12 “established” 


Jeremiah 10:11; 
Daniel 6:28 (Aramaic) 


Hebrew Terms Used for Creation 


The Vocabulary of Creation 
in the Hebrew Bible 


The Creation is one of the most com- 
monly discussed biblical accounts in 
later biblical literature. The poetry of 
the Old Testament, particularly in 
the Psalms and Isaiah 40-55, is rich 
in Creation terminology. God has a 
claim on the lives of his people (and 
on the world!) because He is the 
Creator of everything. It thus makes 
sense that the Hebrew language would 
feature many terms to express one of 
its most basic theological principles. 

The biblical terms for Creation are 
represented in the chart above. As 
one can observe, the terminology 
of Creation in the Bible is rich and 
varied. Many of these terms are used 
in parallel to one another, indicating 
their synonymous nature insofar as 
Creation is concerned. These terms 
also illustrate that the Israelites 


DECEMBER 2015 R&R 35(12):137 


viewed God’s Creation holistically. 
God “brought creation into initial 

existence.” God “formed creation.” 
God “begat” Creation (ina figurative 

sense). God “established,” “founded,” 

“acquired,” “spread out,” and “made” 
every created thing. The full lexicon 

of Hebrew manufacturing is applied 

to Creation to illustrate that, in a 

single period of time, God set the 

world into existence, just as in a 

single moment He will destroy it (2 

Peter 3:10). 


THE GRAMMAR OF GENESIS 1:2 


Wi PREVIOUSLY mentioned 
C that Gap theorists cite three 
grammatical Hebrew features in 
favor of their position. They claim: 
(1) the Hebrew waw implies a gap in 
the narrative; (2) the verb form “was’ 
(bay tah) signals anew beginning; and 
(3) the nouns tohit va-vohi imply a 
(cont. on p. 140) 


> 


= Creation Makes Sense 
= Dinosaurs: The Poster Ch 
« Creation: In Six Days, or Six Billion Years? 


© yyNOsnl® 


yl! 


K 
nee 


» Predictive Prophecy 
= Archaeology and the ible 
The Scientific Accuracy af the Bible 


A Seminar that Answers Modern Atheism's Attacks: 


» |s the God of the (ld Testament 


|mmoral? 
«Hell, Eternal Punishment, and Love 


"= Evil, Pain. and Suffering 
«The Bible and Slavery 


A Seminar on Giving 
Stewardship 
Purpose in Your Heart 
Benefits of Giving Liberally 
Money: Powerful & Dangerous 
» Proof of Your Love 
® Sowing & Reaping 


-~ 
. To book a seminar: 

Apologetics Press, Inc. 

730) Landmark Dr. 


Montgomery, AL Sbll7 
Bhone: (BOO) 24-8008 


E-Mail: mail@apolageticspress.crg 


A Seminar that Examines the Creatio 
in Light of Reason and Revelation 


ildren of Evolution (Parts | & 2) 


\s the Bible Reliable? 
ation and Reliability of the Bible 


ss the Bible a Book of Blunders? 
e Why Does a Reliable Bible Matter? 


Hearing Go 


A Seminar that Examines the Inspir 


n/Evaolution Controversy 


= Design Demands a Designer 
= Fyolutionary Hoaxes Expose 
® Thefruits of Atheism sag 


din the Zist Century 


e. Science, and Gomman Sense: 
2 Votes for God 


Atheism Cannot Rationally Explain... 


= The Origin of the Universe The Origin of Morality 
= The Origin of Life © The Origin of the Bible 


© The Origin of Design _Theism Can 


Scriptur 


\ Closer Look at Christ 


A Seminar that Examines the Historicity 
and Deity of Christ 

Did Jesus Ever Really Live? 

Jesus: Unique Savior or Average Fraud? 

Answering Attacks on Jesus’ Deity 

The Resurrection of Christ 

Was Jesus Really Go ? 

The Return of Christ 


BEHOLD! 
vow 


~ 


“Do Not Be Conformed’ 
A Seminar that Challenges Today's Teens to Embrace 
Holiness and Deny Ungadliness g 


»  |ntegrity Matters 


» Whyare You Here? 
fusion © Input in an Christian Age 


» Confronting Cultural Con 


——— 


a* Yy, A 
ts y 
ow we 
tA Sater 


Weekend seminars 
Dr. Jeff Miller 


Evolution vs. the Laws of Science 
Do the laws of science support the naturalistic evolutionary 


model or the Creation model? 


Evolution’s “Evidence” 
Does the alleged “evidence” for evolution pass 
the science test? 


» Why Bean Atheist? 
|f the evidence is SO decisiv 


Ss Was America founded as a “Christian nation”? 

=) = (id the Founding Fathers advocate 
“separation of church and state”? 

= What can Christians do to preserve our nation? 


America’s Mast Pressing Concern 


= Sequel to "The Silencing of God" 
= Did the Founders believe the Republic 
depends on citizen acknowledgement 


of desus Christ? 


Creation Model: Scripture and Science 
del, and is there evidence for it? 


The 
What is the biblical Creation mo 


Is the Creation Model Scientifically Defensible Today? 


Why Be a Christian? 
\s the Christian life worth it, considering the things 


ane must give up ta live it? 


© Does the Quran possess the attributes of inspiration? 
= Are Christianity and !slam compatible? ry 


« What should Christians do? 


hould Worship Assemblies Include... 
» Instrumental Music? = Lifting Up Hands? 


» Female Worship leaders? © Baby Dedications? 
® Handclapping? » Praise Teams? 


Has the Bible Been Corrupted? 


_” How do we know the Bible was transmitted accurately? 
SR = Canwe be sure we have the Bible as God intended it? 


aminar that Examines Society's Attack on 
Biblical Morality and the Home 


Symptoms of the Disease 
Adultery, homosexuality. ab 
Scripture says lead to a bad prog 


« Causes of the Disease 
If like Satan, my goal was to in 
would | do? Seven dangerous an 


= Metastasis: Spreading the Disease 
What is the most effective way to cause the rapid spread of the 


disease throughout society? Target the home. Biblical principles 
on dating, marriage. gender rales. and child rearing. 
= Treatment: Sending the Disease into Remission 
What treatment should be given to send culture's spiritual cancer 
into remission? 


a SS 


Dr. Dave Miller, Kyle Butt, Eric Lyons, and Dr. Jeff Miller comprise 
the full-time writing and speaking staff at Apologetics Press. Full- 
time and auxiliary speakers/writers are faithful Christians who 
hold a combined 20+ graduate level degrees in relevant scientific 
and religiaus areas. including several doctoral degrees. These men 
speak in dozens af cities, across multiple states and countries 
each year. See wwwapologeticspress.org/ AboutAP.aspx for more 


info on AP. and the speaking/ writing staff. 


AS 


ortion, and other cultural signs that 
nosis for the survival af a society. 


fect society with widespread sin, what 
d widespread "ism's” he's using. 


A Trip Through the Bible 


= Adelightful, captivating trip through the entire Bible 
= Allows the Bible student to fit years of prior Bible 
» knowledge into a condensed, sequential narrative 


Can We Know That God Exists? :o3., 


= Design Demands 


* Can We Believe and Know? 
a Designer 


= Decisive Proof that God Exists 


The End limes 


» Will there be a “Rapture,” Tribulation.” “Battle of Arma- 
geddan." “Antichrist.” and "Millennium"? 
“ » Has the Kingdom been established? 
, “Se Will there be a L000 year reign? 


re-creation from a degraded, earlier 
Creation. We shall treat each of these 
arguments in order. 


The Hebrew Particle zazw 


First, the Hebrew letter waw, repre- 
sented by the incessant “and” in the 
King James Version and often left 
untranslated in more recent versions, 
is always prefixed to Hebrew words. 
When it is attached to a shortened 

“imperfect” verb form in biblical 
narrative, it normally functions asa 
preterite (from Latin preter, “before’”). 
The purpose is to relate action, typi- 
cally in the past, and the waw func- 
tions to connect those past actions 
to one another. 

When the waw is attached toa noun, 
as it isin Genesis 1:2, it is disjunctive, 
and thus signals a shift in the narrative. 
This shift does not necessarily imply 
a different series of events, much less 
events separated by billions of years 
in time. An abrupt shift is found in 
Genesis 3:1—“Now, as for the serpent, 
he was more crafty.” Although no 
serpent has been discussed, and the 
context determines a complete break 
in the narrative, there is nothing 
stated about the amount of time that 
elapsed from the creation of woman 
and the appearance of the serpent. 

Sometimes, however, the disjunctive 
waw can simply provide background 
information for the story being related 
(e.g., Genesis 13:13), or explain what 
is happening simultaneous with the 
narrative, but elsewhere in location 
(e.g., Genesis 37:36, translated well 
as “meanwhile” in the ESV). In these 
cases, the waw sets up a paren- 
thetical remark which functions 
to explain the preceding informa- 
tion. This is, I believe, what we have 
in Genesis 1:2. 

Remember that Genesis 1:1 is a 
declarative statement: “In the begin- 
ning, God created the heavens and 
the earth.” Since the narrative will 
not focus on the creation of the heay- 
ens, but on the Earth, the next verse 


opens with the final word from the 
previous one (“Ad arets). By utilizing 
the disjunctive waw along with the 
noun “Earth,” the Hebrew serves to 
focus attention on the creation of the 
Earth: “Now, as for the earth, it was 
formless and void.” This statement 
is clearly based on the final word of 
the previous verse as the narrative 
unpacks exactly how the creation of 
the Earth took place. 


The Hebrew Word “was” (Aay‘tah) 


The second linguistic argument 
from Genesis 1:2 deals with the term 
hay‘ tah, traditionally translated “was.” 
Gap theorists insist the term means 

“became” or “had become.” They assert 
the bara’ stage of Creation “became” 
or “had become” a desolate waste, and 
thusa re-creation (the asah stage) was 
necessary. In the assessment of Fields, 

“Tt is the mistranslation of this word 
which has, perhaps, added more to 
the ranks of gap theorists than any 
one factor” (1976, p. 88). 

First of all, let us acknowledge that 
Gap theorists are correct about the 
Hebrew verb hayah. It can mean 

“became” or “had become.” But the 
meaning of any word must be deter- 
mined by its context, and not by 
the translator’s arbitrary choosing 
of a meaning from a lexical list. In 
Genesis 1:2, the copular usage of the 
verb hayah in biblical Hebrew must 
be understood. The community of 
Hebrew grammarians is uniform in 
recognizing that the term hay‘tah (a 
feminine form of bayah) in Genesis 
1:2 functions as a copula (see, e.g., 

Jotion and Muraoka, 2006, §154m), 
and thus simply links the subject with 
the object without implying any true 
verbal quality. Let us explain. 

Hebrew has no proper equivalent to 
the English verb “to be.” Therefore, 
several syntactical approximations, 
called copulas, communicate the 
essence of the English “to be.” For 
example, the pronouns /a’ (literally 

“he” or “it” for masculine objects) and 


DECEMBER 2015 ReR 35(12):140 


hi’ (literally “she” or “it” for feminine 
objects) can serve this purpose (often 
translated “is”). The same is true 
of the verb “he became” (hayah). 
The copula hay‘tah is not, therefore, 
functioning in Genesis 1:2 in its true 
verbal sense as “became,” but in the 
copular sense as “was.” 
It is recognized universally that 
“the Hebrew verb translated was 
refers to the time when God began 
his work of creation. Was does not 
mean that the earth remained in 
this shapeless state for a long time; 
nor does it mean that it became such 
after being something else earlier” 
(Reyburn and Fry, 1997, p. 30). This 
point is recognized in virtually every 
decent translation of the Hebrew 
text since the Septuagint (cf. the 
Latin Vulgate and the mountain of 
English translations). Gap theorists 
must find a different justification for 
their theory. 


The Words toha va-vohu 


The two Hebrew nouns toi and bohi 
are so closely linked that Hebraists 
universally regard them as a hendiadys 
(even the Masoretic accentuation sug- 
gests this). Some English translations 
follow this understanding, using an 
adjective-noun construction (e.g., 
the NAB: “formless wasteland”). 
Traditionally, however, two adjectives 
are used to translate toha va-vohi. 
The Septuagint has “invisible and 
unconstructed” (aoratos kai aka- 
taskeuastos). The Vulgate understands 
the terms by the synonyms, “empty 
and void” (inanis et vacua). English 
translations have generally opted for 

“formless and void.” All of these are 
legitimate potential translations ofa 
difficult Hebrew expression. 

By contrast, Gap theorists assert 
these terms imply a depreciation of the 
original Creation (e.g,, Isaiah 34:11; 
Jeremiah 4:23). Since prophetic pas- 
sages convey a change from order to 
disorder when the terms are used, Gap 
theorists believe the same meaning 


must hold in Genesis 1:2. [NOTE: 
Their interpretation here is contingent 
upon this erroneous understanding 
of hay‘tah.] However, the prophetic 
pronouncement is intended to be 
shocking. God plans to punish his 
people by dramatically reducing the 
land to a state of non-existence. It is 
not merely that He wishes to degrade 
their existence; He wishes to nullify it! 

The term Doha occurs only three 
times in the Bible, all in conjunction 
with toha (Genesis 1:2; Isaiah 34:11; 
Jeremiah 4:23). There can be no 
doubt, then, that toha is the clearer 
term, occurring about 20 times. It 
can be used in a physical sense in 
reference to a desert (Deuteronomy 
32:10) or an abandoned city (Isaiah 
24:10), or it can be used in a moral 
sense to refer to vanities (1 Samuel 
12:21; Isaiah 40:17). It can refer to 
a “wasteland,” but does not refer to 
a “wasted land.” 

One verse helps us to establish the 
appropriate meaning of toha ina 
Creation context: “For thus says 
Yahweh, who created [bara’| the 
heavens—he is God—who formed 
[yatsar] the earth, and he made it 
[ asah], he established [kan] it not 
to be empty [#6hi]. He created it 
[bara’| to be inhabited. lam Yahweh, 
and there is no other” (Isaiah 45:18). 
This verse not only utilizes the term 
toha in reference to what the Earth 
was not intended to be, but also 
associates the bara’ Creation with 
the inhabiting of the Earth. 

While the Gap theorists are cor- 
rect to understand tohi va-vohii to 
mean a state of creation God did 
not regard as ideal, nothing in the 
Hebrew words themselves implies 
a depreciation of Creation. Rather, 
the expression conveys the amor- 
phous nature of the Earth before God 
provided His creative structure to it. 
Such is the way the terms have been 
understood throughout the history 
of Bible translation. 


CONCLUSION 


HERE is nothing in the Hebrew 

text of Genesis 1 to demand a gap 
of time. The Hebrews in fact had a 
variety of ways to express chronological 
gaps, whether general or specific. For 
general amounts of time they could 
and often did say, “after this” (ach“réy- 
kén) ox “after these things” (ach*réy- 
hadd‘varim ha-éleh). To express a 
greater extent of time, they could have 
said “many days” ( yamim rabbim) or 
something similar. Although common 
in the Bible, none of these phrases 
occurs in Genesis 1. So we are left 
to trust the Gap theorists that they 
are qualified to speak where the Bible 
is silent, and to understand in the 
Hebrew what no Hebrew scholars 
actually affirm, and what no qualified 
translators have ever put forth. So is 


Gap Theory linguistically viable? No. 
REFERENCES 


Clayton, John N. (2011), The Source: 
Eternal Design or Infinite Accident? 
(Niles, MI: Clayton). 


Clayton, John N. (2015), The Rational 
God: Does God Make Sense? (Niles, 
MI: Clayton). 

Dorsey, David A. (1999), The Literary 
Structure of the Old Testament: A 
Commentary on Genesis—Malachi 
(Grand Rapids, MI: Baker). 

Fields, Weston W. (1976 reprint), 
Unformed and Unfilled: A Critique 
of the Gap Theory (Green Forrest, AR: 
Master Books). 

Joiion, Paul and Takamitsu Muraoka 
(2006),.4 Grammar of Biblical Hebrew 
(Roma: Pontifical Biblical Institute). 

Pember, Georg H. (1907), Earth’s 
Earliest Ages (London: Hodder and 
Stoughton), reprint. 

Platinga, Alvin (2001), “Evolution, 
Neutrality, and Antecedent Probability: 
A Reply to McMullin and Van Till,” 
in Intelligent Design Creationism and 
Its Critics: Philosophical, Theological 
and Scientific Perspectives, ed. Robert 
T. Pennock (Cambridge: MIT Press). 

Reyburn, William D. and Euan McG. 
Fry (1997), 4 Handbook on Genesis 
(New York: United Bible Society). 

Thompson, Bert (2000), Creation 
Compromises (Montgomery, AL: 
Apologetics Press, second edition). 


SPEAKING SCHEDULES 


Kyle Butt 
Dec 6 Jacksonville, AL (256) 435-9356 
Dec 16 Trinity, AL (256) 974-7009 
Eric Lyons 
~ December 27 Wetumpka, AL (334) 567-6561 


December 28-29 
Dave Miller 
December 5 
December 16 
Jeff Miller 
December 3,10 


Huntsville, AL 


Leoma, TN 


Tuscaloosa, AL 


Montgomery, AL 


(256) 533-1953 


(931) 852-4181 
(205) 339-6211 


ea u) 


ee rae 


(334) 272-8558 


DECEMBER 2015 ReR 35(12):141 


Promising News 
. for the Unborn 


Jeff Miller, Ph.D. 


While the process of embryonic stem cell research results 
in the death of unborn human babies, a recent discovery 


by scientists promises to all but eliminate the “need” for 
embryonic stem cell research by using induced pluripo- 
tent stem cells. 


Court decision in 1973, mur- 

derous hands have reached 
into the wombs of willing moth- 
ers—designed to be a safe haven for 
the innocent—and butchered mil- 
lions upon millions of precious 
babies. Many are the excuses given 
to justify such barbaric practices. 
One of those reasons is “research.” 
A recent scientific breakthrough 
may bring salvation for many of 
those innocent souls yet to be care- 
lessly tossed aside. 

Due to President Obama’s March 
2009 executive order, restrictions 
on embryonic stem (ES) cell research 
that President George W. Bush had 
signed into effect were lifted. The 
order allows federal funds to be 
used for ES cells from “donated 
surplus embryos originally made 
for reproduction” (Hyun, 2014, p. 
28). So, living embryos that were 
not used during iz vitro fertilization 
(IVF) procedures can be used for 
ES cell research. Jn vitro fertilization 
is a procedure in which a woman’s 


S INCE the infamous Supreme 


ovaries are stimulated to generate 
several eggs, which are sucked from 
the ovaries and put into a sperm 
bath in a Petri dish for a few days. 
Selected embryos are then implanted 
by catheter into the uterus. The 
process has been used successfully 
for decades, with over 200,000 IVF 
babies being born since 1981 (Nivin, 
2015). 

From a biblical standpoint, is there 
anything wrong with this procedure? 
There are various issues with IVF 
from a Christian perspective, but 
one significant problem is the death 
of many fertilized eggs—i.e., babies— 
whether intentionally or uninten- 
tionally. According to the Bible, the 
life of a human begins at conception 
(cf. Jeremiah 1:4-5; Isaiah 49:1; 
Miller, 2006, p. 36ff.), making IVF 
essentially premeditated murder. In 
IVF, only selected embryos are 
implanted into a woman. The rest 
are discarded or frozen (typically, 
eventually to be discarded). Of 
those that are implanted, most mis- 
carry. Transabdominal selective 


DECEMBER 2015 R&R 35(12):142 


reduction is further utilized in the 
process to wipe out those implanted 
zygotes that are deemed “inferior.” 
[NOTE: Transabdominal selective 
reduction is a procedure in which 
the number of fetuses present in a 
uterus are reduced (through abor- 
tion), typically by inserting a needle 
through the mother’s stomach, into 
the uterus, and then into the desired 
fetus, injecting a potassium chloride 
solution into the baby, which burns 
and poisons it, ultimately stopping 
its heart (Healthwise Staff, 2014). 
Fetuses chosen for survival are 
selected on the basis of gender and 
health status (“Multifetal Pregnancy 
Reduction,’ 2013).] 

ES cell researchers step in at this 
point. In ES cell research, the goal 
is to grow cells that can be used for 
various purposes. Researchers hope 
to use those cells to learn about the 
human body and growth patterns 
and, especially, for harvesting cells 
that can be transplanted into indi- 
viduals with various physical condi- 
tions (e.g., macular degeneration, 
leukemia, spinal cord injuries, etc.). 
Somatic Cell Nuclear Transfer 
(SCNT) is typically used in ES cell 
research—the process used to clone 
the famous sheep, Dolly. In SCNT, 
the nucleus is removed from an egg 
and the nucleus from a skin cell is 
transferred into the egg. The egg 
recognizes that it has been fertilized 
and begins growing like a normal 
embryo. The embryo is subsequently 
destroyed to harvest its cells for the 
generation of ES cell lines. 

You might ask, “Why not use adult 
stem cells instead of embryos?” The 
reason is that cells differentiate as 
they grow—i.e., change into cells 
with specific functions. For example, 
acell will differentiate from a naive 
embryonic state during develop- 
ment to acquire the unique charac- 
teristics of, say, a bone or liver cell. 
For many medical purposes, however, 
researchers need undifferentiated 


cells without those cell-type specific 
programs. So, ES cells are used. 
Scientists could not figure out how 
to reprogram a differentiated cell 
back to an undifferentiated state 
until 2006. Elizabeth Landau, a 
science reporter for CNN, explained 
that 
[t]he first developments in the 
field of stem cell research used 
leftover embryos created by the 
union of sperm and egg from iz 
vitro fertilization. But embryonic 
stem cell research is controversial 
because to use the stem cells for 
developing medical treatments, 
the embryo is destroyed. Embryos 
have the potential to develop into 
a fully formed human [NOTE: 
Christians would argue that they 
are already fully humans—JM], 
bringing up ethical questions. 
Scientists later realized that it’s 
not necessary to use embryos to 
obtain stem cells that match 
patients. Shinya Yamanaka won 
the 2012 Nobel Prize for Physiol- 
ogy or Medicine for discovering 
how to make “induced pluripotent 
stem cells,” or [iPS] cells (2014). 
And that brings us to the good news. 
Shinya Yamanaka and Sir John 
Gurdon received the Nobel Prize 
in October 2012, when Yamanaka’s 
lab discovered that “mature cells 
can be reprogrammed to become 
pluripotent”—i.e., they figured out 
how to reprogram cells by defined 
factors after they had already spe- 
cialized (“Shinya Yamanaka—Facts,’ 
2014). By doing so, they made iPS 
cells, pluripotency being that char- 
acteristic of “stemness” that is 
required for medical purposes. They 
discovered how to reprogram almost 
any kind of cell by inserting genes 
into “mature cells that already have 
specific functions,” turning back 
the clock on those mature cells 
(Landau). First, Takahashi and 
Yamanaka succeeded in reprogram- 
ming cells back to an undifferenti- 
ated state using differentiated, 
embryonic fibroblasts in mice (2006). 
Subsequently, Yu, et al. (2007) 


successfully applied the process to 
differentiated, embryonic fibroblasts 
in humans, while Takahashi, et al. 
(2007) successfully applied the 
process to adult human somatic 
cells, rather than embryonic cells. 
This groundbreaking research prom- 
ises to eliminate the need for cloning 
embryos for ES cell purposes. Deiter 
Egli, senior research fellow at the 
New York Stem Cell Foundation, 
explains that “[t]he cloning method 
takes a few weeks, and is not sig- 
nificantly faster than generating 
[iPS] cells” (as quoted in Landau). 
So, time is not a factor in the process. 
In fact, Egli notes that nuclear trans- 
fer advantages “would have to be 
considerable to beat out [iPS], which 
is ‘much more efficient and less 
ethically contentious” (Landau). 
Gretchen Vogel, writing in Science 
magazine, highlighted in 2014 that 
several states have banned human 
SCNT research. She explained: “The 
political energy needed to overturn 
those laws might be hard to gener- 
ate given that there’s now an embryo- 
free alternative to producing 
patient-specific stem cells” (p. 462). 
And that is good news. How can 
anyone justify destroying embryonic 
human life when he can get the 
human cells he needs without 
embryos? Thank God for Yamanaka 
and Gurdon, whose research may 
help repair the breaching dam hold- 
ing back the proverbial river of 
American baby blood shed at the 


hands of abortionists. 


REFERENCES 


Healthwise Staff (2014), “Multifetal 
Pregnancy Reduction? WebMD, reviewed 
by Kathleen Romito and Femi 
Olatunbosun, http://www.webmd.com/ 
infertility-and-reproduction/tc/ 
multifetal-pregnancy-reduction-topic- 
overview. 

Hyun, Insoo (2014), “Regulate Embryos 
Made for Research,” Nature, 
509[7498]:27-28, May 1. 


DECEMBER 2015 Re 35(12):143 


Landau, Elizabeth (2014), “Cloning 
Used to Make Stem Cells from Adult 
Humans,’ CNN Health, http://www. 
cnn.com/2014/04/28/health/stem- 
cell-breakthrough/. 

Nivin, Todd (2015), “Infertility and In 
Vitro Fertilization” WebMD, http:// 
www.webmd.com/infertility-and-repro- 
duction/guide/in-vitro-fertilization. 

Miller, Dave (2006), Sexual Anarchy: 
The Moral Implosion of America 
(Montgomery, AL: Apologetics Press). 

“Multifetal Pregnancy Reduction” (2013), 
The American College of Obstetricians 
and Gynecologists Committee on Ethics, 
Num. 553, February, http://www.acog. 
org/-/media/Committee-Opinions/ 
Committee-on-Ethics/co553.pdf?dm 
c=1&ts=20151005T1420301791 

“Shinya Yamanaka—Facts” (2014), 
Nobelprize.org, http://www.nobelprize. 
org/nobel_prizes/medicine/laure- 
ates/2012/yamanaka-facts.html. 

Takahashi, K., K. Tanabe, M. Ohnuki, 
M. Narita, T. Ichisaka, K. Tomoda, and 
S. Yamanaka (2007), “Induction of 
Pluripotent Stem Cells from Adult 
Human Fibroblasts by Defined Factors?’ 
Cell, 131[5]:861-872, November 30. 

Takahashi, K. and S. Yamanaka (2006), 

“Induction of Pluripotent Stem Cells 
from Mouse Embryonic and Adult 
Fibroblast Cultures by Defined Factors,” 
Cell, 126[4]:663-676, August 25. 

Vogel, Gretchen (2014), “Therapeutic 
Cloning Reaches Milestone,” Science, 
344[6183]:462-463. 

Yu, J., M.A. Vodyanik, K. Smuga-Otto, 
J. Antosiewicz-Bourget, J.L. Frane, S. 
Tian, J. Nie, G.A. Jonsdottir, V. Ruotti, 
R. Stewart, LI. Slukvin, andJ.A. Thomson 
(2007), “Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell 
Lines Derived from Human Somatic 
Cells, Science, 318[5858]:1917-1920, 
December 21. 

[SPECIAL THANKS TO: Dr. Michael 

Kareta (Ph.D. in Biochemistry and 

Molecular Biology from The University 

of California, Davis), currently at the 

Department of Pediatrics & Institute 

for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative 

Medicine at Stanford University, for 

reviewing this article.] 


y 


APOLOGETICS PRESS « 230 LANDMARK DRIVE * MONTGOMERY, AL 36117 


Periodicals Postage 
PAID 


NOTEFROM./f 4 500) yy 


Consider Hosting an A.P. Seminar 


For many years, the professional speaking staff addition to these basic staples, however, our speak- 
at Apologetics Press have conducted live seminars 


across the country. Last year, A.P. speakers spoke in 


117 cities, 24 states, and 
three foreign countries. 
This level of activity has 
remained constant for 
many years. This avenue 
of disseminating subject 
matter for which A.P. is 
widely known has been 
an important and effec- 
tive means of promot- 
ing the cause of Christ. 
On site seminars pro- 
vide spiritual enrich- 


Dr. Dave Miller Kyle Butt 


ers address many other matters that are extremely 
relevant in today’s culture. These topics include 
Islam, dinosaurs, athe- 
ism, attacks on biblical 
morality, the Creation 
model, what America’s 
Founders said about the 
critical role of Christi- 


Weekend Seminars anity in the country, the 


Eric Lyons 


ment for the members of those churches that 


host the seminar; they also provide an opportu- 


nity to impact guests from the community who 


are invited to attend. 


A.P. speakers address a wide variety of subjects 


and topics. Much of the material pertains specif- 


ically to traditional “Christian evidences” —like 


the existence of God, the inspiration of the Bible, 


and the deity of Christ. We have also specialized 


in responding to the unscientific claims of evolu- 


tion in light of the Genesis account of Creation. In 


“end times,” change in 

>} church worship prac- 

Dr. Jeff Miller IGE E tices, and how we know 

the Bible has not been 

altered in transmission. 

Allow me to urge our 

readers to consider hosting an A.P. seminar either 

at a local church building or ina neutral location 

in the community. Much good seed can be sown 
and many hearts transformed. 


Dave Miller 


| See the Center Spread 
| for More Details 


