r 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  {4-89)  —  Paid  Up 

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  jO  day  of   ,  2008,  by  and  between  I 

X^Vv^v  CS  Ao&yi    W</e        d-mitA  ™  Uh  wlecuJt  ^(MVflk  Mp\y  

as  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  ~  *  \.  ' 

 ^mv  Iw+   VoA     oT-\W  i^l^c 

and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES  LLC.  2100  Ross  Ave  Suite  1870  Dallas,  Texas,  75201,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  ware  prepared  by  the 
party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  ware  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the 
following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

Lot(s)     /  (p        Block.  _  of  the  (?t£?5>K  W  \  ,an  addition  to  the  City  of 

Fort  Worfh,  Texas,  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  in  that  certain  recorded  in  Volume 

Q  Page      ^  ^        of  the   *CU^  ^         Records.  Tarrant  County,  Texas,        \\q    {0  W  9-?^""  ) 

in  the  County  of  Tarrant.  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  .  gross  acres,  more  or  lass  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 

reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  (or,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  rion  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (Including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  Includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases:  in  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  smalt  strips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus, 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose 
of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  (or  as  long  thereafter  as  oil 
or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  In 
effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and 
gravity;  (b)  far  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof, 
less  s  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise 
marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for 
production  of  similar  quality  in  tha  same  field  (or  if  (here  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price) 
pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder,  and  (c)  if 
at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby  In  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  there  from  Is 
not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90 
consecutive  days  such  wall  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  there  from  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-In  royally  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered 
by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or 
before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  there  from  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  If  this  lease  Is 
otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  tha  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in 
royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production,  lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-In  royalty  shall  render 
Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be 
Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  In  currency,  or  by  check  or  by 
draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  tha  Lessor  at  the  last 
address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept 
payment  hereunder.  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  Instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  Incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities}  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  In  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  It  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  wall  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at 
the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  mora  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as 
there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on' the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances 
to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the 
leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any 
additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  Interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  lo  any  or  all 
depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The 
unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  Is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  tor  a  gas  well  or  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal 
completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose 
of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  Is  so 
prescribed,  'oil  weir  means  a  well  with  an  Initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic 
feBt  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion'  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing 
equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical 
component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the. unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  Is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the 
net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  u;iit  production  Is  sold  by 
Lessee.  Pooling  in  onB  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  forniBd  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In 
making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  dale  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises  is  Included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  thB  absence  of  production  In  paying  quantities  from  a  unit  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  tiling  of  record 
a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part 
of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  In 
such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

fl.  The  Interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  In  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  end/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  end  assigns.  No  change  In  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Leasee  hereunder,  end  no  change  In  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days 
after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or 
until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  In  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-In  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more 
persons  are  entided  to  shut-In  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-In  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  Jointly  or 
separately  In  proportion  to  the  Interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  Its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  In  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter 
arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  In  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  In  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

Chesapeake  -  Azle  Avenue  Confederation  -  Lease. 


'a.  Lessee  may,  al  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  In  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  there  under,  end  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  (hereafter  arising  with  respect  fo  (he  Interest  so  released. 
If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  Interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  sliul-ln  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  Interest  retained  hereunder. 

10;  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith.  In 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  Ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines, 
tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  Injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deBmed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce, 
store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  In  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises, 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds,  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  tha  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  iBase;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  In 
writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands,  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  olher  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  olher  lands  during  the  term  of  this  Jease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  Ihereatter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether.express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  ail  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby,  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material, 
water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  Inability  to 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's 
control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted, 

12.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  SO  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee 
written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and 
there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable 
time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so, 

13.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages. 

14.  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other  operations. 

15.  This  lease  may  bo  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  Is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


See  Exhibit  "A"  Attached  hereto  and  by  reference  made  a  part  hereof. 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 


Signature: 


Printed  Name: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


Notary's  name  (printed)\ 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  ma  on  the 


day  of  August,  2008,  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


day  of  August,  2008,  by. 


of 


a 


corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires 


Chesapeake  -  Azle  Avenue  Confederation  Lease 


EXHIBIT  "A; 


ATTACHED  TO  ANDMADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  DATED  AUGUST  10, 

2008,   betweenTuMk  Cwtf-o&-  We  CiKfil  rj/M'^  on  Ui3  Sdle  OMd  gfW^  prcfc 

and  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES  L.L.C.,  DESCRIBED,  AS  GROSS  ACRES,  MORE  OR  LESS, 

KNOWN  AS    LotM  \(0    .  Block    73    of  the    %^^TlAtUMk  ^ Tnn  A  , 

an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and  bounds  in 
that  certain  plat  recorded  in  Volume  .  Page   "7  *f  of  the  plat  Records.  Tarrant  County, 

Texas,  (  5(pl(,  WuJ  ) 

THE  PROVISIONS  OF  THIS  EXHIBIT  SUPERSEDE  ANY  PROVISIONS  TO  THE  CONTRARY 
CONTAINED  EN  THE  LEASE  TO  WHICH  EXHIBIT  IS  ATTACHED. 

Notwithstanding  anything  in  this  Lease  to  the  contrary: 

1.  Minerals  Leased.  This  lease  is  limited  to  oil,  gas  and  other  hydrocarbons  and  substances  normally 
associated  with  the  production  of  oil  and  gas,  but  this  lease  does  not  include  gravel,  uranium,  fissionable 
materials,  coal,  lignite  or  any  hard  minerals  or  substances  of  any  type  which  shall  be  produced  from  the 
leased  premises.  Lessee  shall  not  use  ground  water  in  its  operations  whether  under  the  leased  premises  or 
adjacent  lands. 

2.  Surface  Waiver.  Lessee  shall  not  use  the  surface  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  whether 
under  the  Lease  or  otherwise,  including,  without  limitation,  use  of  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  to 
explore,  drill  or  mine  for,  produce,  store,  process,  market  and  transport  any  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals 
conduct  seismic  or  ingress  and  egress  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor  (which  consent  can  by 
withheld  in  Lessor's  sole  discretion).  This  waiver  shall  not  be  considered  as  a  waiver,  release  or 
relinquishment  by  Lessee  of  any  right,  title  or  interest  of  Lessee  in  the  oil  and  gas  on  or  under,  or  that  may 
be  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  an  portion  thereof  (whether  under  the  Lease  or  otherwise),  except 
as  to  the  surface  use  rights  incident  thereto  for  which  consent  to  use  is  not  given  by  Lessor  as  provided 
above. 

3.  Paying  Quantities,  As  used  in  this  Lease,  the  term  "paying  quantities"  means  revenue  from  the  sale  of 
production  from  a  well  sufficient  to  return  a  profit,  after  deduction  of  royalties,  overriding  royalties  and 
production  taxes,  over  and  above  all  direct  operating  costs,  but  not  including  capital  costs  or  district  office 
overhead  not  directly  attributable  to  the  leased  premises,  for  any  consecutive  twelve  (1 2)  month  period. 

4.  Royalties.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  on  gas,  including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous 
substances  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  sold  or  used  on  or  off  the  leased  premises  or  for  the 
extraction  of  gasoline  or  other  products  therefrom,  shall  be  25%  of  the  market  value  at  the  point  of  sale  (not 
at  the  wellhead)  of  gas  or  other  gaseous  substances  so  sold  or  used;  however,  in  no  event  shall  the  royalty 
paid  to  Lessor  be  less  than  the  Lessor's  royalty  share  of  the  actual  amount  realized  by  the  Lessee  from  the 
sale  of  oil  and/or  gas.  "Market  value"  means  the  highest  price  obtainable  by  Lessee  in  the  same  or  nearest 
field  for  gas  or  other  substances  of  the  same  character,  quantity  and  quality  from  an  arms-length 
competitively  negotiated  contract.  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  calculated  free  and  clear  of  all  costs  and 
expenses  of  drilling,  completing  and  operating  the  wells  and  post  production  costs,  including,  but  not  limited 
to,  costs  for  storing,  gathering,  compression,  treatment,  processing,  transportation,  dehydration,  marketing, 
construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  improvements  such  as  pipelines,  plant  or  other  facilities.  All 
such  post  production  costs  shall  be  added  back  to  determine  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee  in  the  sale  of  oil 
and  gas  for  purposes  of  calculating  Lessor's  royalty;  provided  however  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  subject 
proportionately  to  any  post  production  costs  under  Lessee's  gas  purchase  contract  with  non-affiliated  third 
party  covering  the  sale  of  production  from  the  leased  premises.  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  proportionate 
share  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee,  or 
an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  higher  of  the 
proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid 
based  upon  the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  gas  or  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by 
Lessee  for  said  products.  As  used  herein,  the  term  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership,  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  10%  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which 
Lessee  owns  more  than  10%  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership,  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than  10%  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest 
of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled 
by  the  same  person,  or  group  of  persons.  Annual  shut-in  royalty  will  be  $100.00  per  well.  After  the 
expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of 
shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  one  single  period  of  two  years  or  three  years  in  the  aggregate  of  shut-in  periods 
during  a  five  year  period 

5-  Shut  In:  If  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  Lease  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being 
sold  for  a  period  of  60  consecutive  days,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  in  advance  $100.00  per  well  annual 
royalty  from  each  well  from  which  gas  is  not  being  sold.  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  the  right  of 
Lessee  to  maintain  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalty  is  limited  to  no  more  than  two  (2) 
consecutive  years  and  a  cumulative  (3)  three  years  within  any  ten  (10)  year  period. 

6.  Pooling  /  Unitization.  All  of  the  leased  premises  will  be  included  in  one  or  more  pooled  units  prior  to  the  end 
of  the  primary  term,  and  failure  to  do  so  will  cause  termination  of  this  Lease.  The  entire  leased  premises 
must  thus  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  or  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  by  virtue  of 
payment  of  shut-in  royalties  in  order  to  extend  the  term  of  this  Lease.  Lessee's  right  to  pool  under  this  Lease 
shall  be  limited  to  a  unit  or  units  no  larger  than  three  hundred  twenty  (320)  acres  plus  the  acreage  permitted 
by  the  "Additional  Acreage  Assignment"  based  upon  "Horizontal  Drainhole  Displacement"  for  Horizontal 
Wells  as  provided  in  Texas  Railroad  Commission  Statewide  Rule  86.  In  the  event  the  Railroad  Commission 
of  Texas  (or  other  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction)  requires,  as  opposed  to  permits,  larger  units  in 
order  to  obtain  the  maximum  production  allowable,  then  the  foregoing  unit  limitations  may  be  enlarged  only 
to  the  extent  to  obtain  such  full  allocation. 


Chesapeake  -  Azle  Avenue  Confederation  -  Lease  Exhibit  "A: 


Page  1 


7.  Acreage  Retained.  This  Lease  shall  continue  in  force  and  effect  after  the  primary  term  or  any  extension  of 
such  primary  term  as  permitted  by  continuous  drilling  operations  being  conducted  at  the  end  of  the  primary 
term  as  allowed  in  this  Lease,  only  as  to:  (i)  that  portion  of  the  leased  premises  actually  included  at  that  time 
in  a  producing  oil  or  gas  unit,  if  Lessee  is  not  required  to  pool  or  unitize  all  of  the  leased  premises  under  the 
terms  of  this  Lease,  and  (ii)  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  (100)  feet  below  either  (1)  the  deepest  depth 
drilled  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (2)  the  stratigraphic 
equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the 
leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is  the  deepest.  This  Lease  shall  terminate  by  its 
terms  as  to  all  portions  of  the  leased  premises  and  depths  not  actually  included  in  such  producing  unit  or 
units. 


8.  No  Warranty.  This  lease  is  made  by  Lessor  without  express  or  implied  warranty  or  covenant  of  title.  All 
warranties  which  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  §  5.023  of  the  Texas 
Property  Code  (or  its  successor)  are  excluded. 

9.  Indemnity.  TO  THE  MAXIMUM  EXTENT  PERMITTED  BY  LAW,  LESSEE  WILL  INDEMNIFY,  DEFEND 
AND  HOLD  LESSOR  HARMLESS  FROM  ANY  AND  ALL  CLAIMS,  LIABILITIES,  DEMANDS,  SUITS, 
LOSSES,  DAMAGES  AND  COSTS  (INCLUDING  WITHOUT  LIMITATION  ANY  ATTORNEY  FEES) 
CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  OR  ITS  CONTRACTOR'S  OR  SUBCONTRACTOR'S  ACTIVITIES  INCLUDING, 
WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ANY  CLAIMS  THAT  LESSE'S  OPERATIONS  THEREUNDER  ARE  EITHER 
ILLEGAL,  UNAUTHORIZED  OR  CONSTITUTE  AN  IMPROPER  INTERFERENCE  WITH  ANY  THIRD 
PARTIES'  RIGHTS,  OR  HAVE  DAMAGED  THE  LANDS  OR  OPERATIONS  OF  ADJACENT 
LANDOWNERS.  THIS  INDEMNITY  SHALL  NOT  BE  APPLICABLE  TO  DAMAGES  RESULTING  FROM 
LESSOR'S  NEGLIGENCE  OR  WILLFUL  MISCONDUCT.  Lessee,  at  its  own  expense,  shall  maintain  a 
general  liability  insurance  policy  (covering  both  bodily  injury  and  property  damage  and  covering  its  indemnity 
obligations  under  this  paragraph,  for  which  Lessor  shall  be  carried  as  additional  insureds)  in  an  amount  of  at 
least  $5,000,000  combined  single  limit.  Lessee  shall  also,  at  its  own  expense,  carry  worker's  compensation 
insurance  as  required  by  law.  Said  policies  shall  (i)  name  Lessor  as  additional  insureds  (except  for  the 
worker's  compensation  policy,  which  instead  shall  include  a  waiver  of  subrogation  endorsement  in  favor  of 
Lessor),  and  (ii)  provide  that  said  insurance  shall  not  be  canceled  unless  thirty  (30)  days  prior  written  notice 
shall  have  been  given  to  Lessor.  In  addition,  such  insurance  provided  by  Lessee  shall  be  primary  coverage 
for  Lessor  and/or  surface  owner  when  any  policy  issued  to  Lessor  and/or  surface  owner  is  similar  or 
duplicate  in  coverage,  and  Lessor's  policies  shall  be  excess  over  Lessee's  policies. 


10.  Offset  Wells.  In  the  event  an  offsetting  well  producing  oil  or  gas  is  completed  on  adjacent  or  nearby  land 
and  Is  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith  Lessee  must,  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  the 
initial  production  from  the  offsetting  well,  commence  operations  for  the  drilling  of  an  offset  well  on  the  leased 
premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  and  must  diligently  pursue  those  operations  to  the  horizon  In  which  the 
offsetting  well  is  producing,  or  pay  Lessor  as  a  royalty  each  month  a  sum  equal  to  the  royal  that  that  would 
be  payable  under  this  Lease  if  the  production  from  the  offsetting  well  had  come  from  the  leased  premises,  or 
land  pooled  therewith.  A  producing  well  located  within  330  feet  of  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled 
therewith,  shall  be  conclusively  presumed  to  be  draining  the  leased  premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith. 


Chesapeake  -  Azle  Avenue  Confederation  -  Lease  Exhibit  "A" 


Page  2 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 

DALLAS  TX  75201 

Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$28.00 


mm  mi  mil  urn  urn  inn  mif  urn  mn  inn  mt  mi 

D208377960 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  CN 


