Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Oct  16  10:50  AM  a 

D208396064 

Fee:  $  24.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  3  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP. 
ATTN:  RECORDING  TEAM 
P.O.  Box  18496 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 

Submitter:  Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLEFtK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFGRD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PARTWWE0S=miAL  RECORD. 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPLIFILE 


By: 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  T^E  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  C^Lf  fe^R 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDiR  FEDERAL  LAfe 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT 
TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC 
RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  fi^day  of  August,  2008,  by  and  between  BILLY  RAY  DANCER,  a.k.a.  BILUE  RAY  DANCER,  a  single  Person,  and 
MAEDELL  DANCER,  feme  solo,  who»e  address  Is  612  EAST  ROBERT  STREET.  FORT  WORTH.  TEXAS.  76104.  as  Lessor,  and  FQMR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO.,  LLC, 
201  Main  Street  Suite  14S5.  Fort  Worth.  Texas  76102.  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other 
provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described 
land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

ABSTRACT:  A-1413        SURVEY:  A.Stlnson         PLAT:  Volume  1049,  Page  399 

.1722  Acres,  more  or  less,  being  Lot  10,  Block  2,  of  WEST  MORNINGSIDE  ADDITION  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  plat  recorded  in  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  as 
described  in  Warranty  Deed  recorded  in  Volume  3493,  Page  295  of  the  Deed  Records 

in  the  county  of  TARRANT  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.1722  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise)  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances 
produced  In  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations),  The  term  *gas'  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as 
well  as  hydrocarbon  gases,  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter 
owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining 
the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2  This  lease  which  is  a  'paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  five  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or 
gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  m 
effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3  Royalties  on  oil  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25ft  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  pnce  then  prevailing  in  the 
same  field  (or  if  Ihere  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearesl  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and 
gravity  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25ft  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  salethereof, 
tess  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering  processing  or  otherwise 
marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  pnce  paid  for 
production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  {or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  In  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price) 
pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder,  and  (c)  if 
at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  othe 
substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  we  I  or  wells  shal 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  penod  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  welte  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  Is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor 
or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day 
period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being . ^a'^^J^V  °P^°^ Qs>  °<« 
production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shaH  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day 
Penodnext  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not 
operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  Lessor's  addr«e  above  or  Its  successors, 
which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made currency  or  by 
check  or  by  draft  and  such  paymentf >r  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  In  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  address^sd  to  ^depository  or  to  toe  Lessor 
at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  anojer  institofton.  or  for  any reason ital o refuse 
to  accept  payment  hereunder.  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive 
payments. 

5.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  ^^J^^^^^J^ 
production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unrt  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provraions  of  Pa^"Ph  «  or  the 
aSon  of  any  governmental  authority  then  In  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remam  ,n  I^VL^im 
derations ;  for  reworkina  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
S^d^^S^^^oXL.  on  sulh  dry  ho.e  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  ^  "^J^JV*^  * 
thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  r«^**""^  £ 2™* 
restorVproduction  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  Wce^ajm 
Says .  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there F^"^  JSSS?2R„"S 
the  leased  premises  or  tends  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  welt  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  dnl  such  onj 9* 
^Jdnremises  or  lands  Doded  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  arcumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
S^XS^ff!SS^pSi  qStfBas  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  ^compensated 
^^^^KwiStoSSw  other  laSds  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  intomt  i herein ^^J^^^^l  *£SS,  2 
ninths  or  zones  and  as  to  anv  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  ntcnsaiyv 
S$ to SZ  In  ^tep^VSSS^^^  Poises.  Aether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such .other  MM  JJ 
K  formed  by  such  pooling"  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  ^  exceed  80  acres ;  plus £ «^^lSSSZ  o  ^»^?ho£nW 
horizontal  comDletlonshall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%;  prowled  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  we"  or  gas  weii or 
SettonTS^  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authonty  having  ,unsd.cjon  to  do  so.  Forthe .purpose 
■rThESS^^  weir  shThave  the  minings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  9^^JS^^JS^S£ 
prescribe?-oil well'  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100.000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  wrthan ^nitla 

K  "more  oer  barrel  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  ease  separator  faa  rhes  or  equivalent  testing 
%£&Z  and  he ft 'hStaiw  common"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  <^*"^  "  ",2a? Se  IVS 

such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  «JP*w^.^^ 


hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decadent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated abov*  If  an any  ttmji taro  or  more 
persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  * >  their  cred iSnSiS 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shallbe  relieved 
arising  wtth  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the >  nghte  of 
SI  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  port.on  of  the  area  covered  by  this  to 
pay  or  tender  shuWn  royatties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with imped  to  the  -nteresl ;» rrtmrt. 
Utessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced 
in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
Drimarv  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals.  P'PfJnes, 
tanks  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  o  discover,  produce, 
store,'  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil  gas,  water  and/or  other  su ^"fP™*?^"  '^^l^'!^ 
except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  ^  arwllary  nghts granted 
herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  pa rtial termination  of  th s le aa*  and  b)  to  any 
other  lands  In  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  poo  edtherew.th.  When '^^^Jf  f*=r 
writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  bar 'now™  the leased 
premises  or  other  lands  used  byLessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  bulldmgs  and  other  .mpravements 
now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  limber  snd  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures, 
equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  witnin  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  9°™.™"^^ 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  <™"JJ^;  sSs^aS 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits  equlpmen ,  serves,  matenaL 
wlterelectricity,  fueUccess  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war.  sabotage  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot  stnke  or  2^^^™22rt 
obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production  or  by  any  other  cause  "^^^^^^j*6? 
control,  this  leaseVhall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevents  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  torm  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  ^  o^ing  tc '  P"J^  ^ 


and  all  otner  pertinent  terms  ana  conaroons  oi  ine  onw.  lc^w,  m  a  v™>w     ...«*>.■  — k-  ■    -  r  -  -  - 

purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder  for  a  period  of  atleast  9.°n^^.Lh^^ 
written  notice  Sly  describing  the  breach  or  default  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  with.n  such  period^  J  ™^SJ*^  *™ 

there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  g.ven  a  reasonable 
time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  easement 
under  and  Srou^MheSsed  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  ^^^^^^^ff^ffSS 
other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  Intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  nght  to  royalty  or  other  benefit. 
Such  subsurface  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

1 5.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  *P«°n  ™^yt^ 

mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  K  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shall  be  ^rogated  to  £  *•  J£»rt 

wZ  payment  is  made.  and.  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shul-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to |l«he reunder.  In  ttw  evert 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shutin  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until 
Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  teased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  thai  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of, rental  bonus  ^"^1^™  ZV2 

vary  depending  on  mnltiple  facers  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiation*.  Lessr-r  understands  that  these please  ^^'^^l^r 
thli  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  .p  or  down  depend.ng  on , inarLel 
acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  .ease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  ^^^^^^^ 
future  market  conditions  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotoate 
with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF.-thls  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  «k ^  signatory  and  the  signatory's 
heirs  d™sees  executors,  adrSstrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was 


(seal) 


acknowledged  before  me  on  the  l3T*dav  of  August.  2008,  by  BILLY  RAY  DANCE,  a.k.a.  BILLIE  RAY  DANCER. 


"  1 1  1 1 


JAMES  C.SHARPE 
f'f^rVl   tofryPi^,  Stoto  of  Texas 
Mr  Cenmissin  Expires 
_   May  6. 2010 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  Instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  1 3™  day  of  August,  2008.  by  MAEDELL  DANCER 


(seal) 


JAMES  C.SHARPE 
t^fmSbfrofToas 
My  CooMrisskii  Expires 
May5, 2010 


c. 


Notary 


