Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Oct  17  09:40  AM 

Fee:  $  20.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  2  Pages 


D208397576 


Suzanne  Henderson 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE OR STRIKE ANY  ORALL 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER.  mRB,  prod  88(7-69)  pad  up  (wm/OTp 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

is  B1 0  Houston  St,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  761 02,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1.  Lessor,  in  consideralion  often  dollars  and  other  valuable  ^ration  ^^^^^g^^^^^^Xi 

on  said  land 

from  the  lario  w»c.^  --j  —>-«■•'-- 

Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows. 


lease 

with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

mmmmm 
wmmmm 

as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4  Lessee  is  herebv  qranted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered ^byttis  lease, 
arJL^mnSZ *r£5  Bmi i!2£  or  kS»s  as to  anv  or  afirninerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface .acres, 

Sc^ln  the  wbfc  office  Wsl^lsrealSda  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being  pn^wdfiom 
2SuS /K  un tSm^^^SSS^nned,  reduced  or  enlarged  bv  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  frorr^me to\ hmeafter  he 
Sal  HaSStaSSSS % filmg  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the  public  officein  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  to^^^gjtojhe 
p^oiTO ft  piSrShV  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long ias > any  tease )^^!ffS^SSSt!^M 
this feasei now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  poo  ng  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  inienaea 
o sndfb^KpfeS hSfffif?S5lylB?&  indu'sionPof  such  separate,  tracts  within rjhb  lease  but  Lesseeshall  »SSfy^  !S£SSh^ 
pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided. .M i  used  in  this 'Paragraph  ^tiie 
Words  "separate  tracT  mean  any  tract  wfth  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  erther  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  aslo  any  other 


part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search 
for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  includBig  the  right  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  barn  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shafextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assnns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  notlimited  to.  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to.  Lessee,  its  successors  wasswns, no 
chanqe  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  nght  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shal 
be  bindinq  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  pnnopal 
place  of  Business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recorcT owner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  daysafter  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said I  notice  jhaM  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleqed  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  exBtingspacmg i  rules 
require"  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after,  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assiqns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalbes  and  other 
moneys  accruinq  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein  if  any,  covered  by  (his  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  rt  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1  If  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occumng  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessors  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  aH  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 


Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
rtice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee,  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 


13. 

giving  notice    .  ,     ,  x  . 

quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  dnlling  operations  are  completed. 

14  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well. sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations. ,  Therefore,  since  dnlling, 
reworkinq  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restnctions  contained  in  this  lease, 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

1 5  The  consideration  paid  for- this  lease  shall  also  constitute  consideration  for  an  option  to  the  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns, 
to  extend  the  initial  three  (3)  year  primary  term  for  a  second  two  (2)  year  term.  This  option  maybe  exercised  anytime  dunng  the  initial 
primary  term  by  delivery  of  payment  of  an  additional  bonus  of  $20.000.00  per  net  mineral  acre.  The  bonus  payment  shall  constitute  notice 
to  Lessor  of  exercise  of  the  option.  In  the  event  Lessee  elects  to  exercise  this  option  and  makes  the  bonus  payment  provided  for  above, 
then  all  terms  of  this  lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  rf  the  original  primary  term  was  five  (5)  years. 


iment  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


LESSOR:  Samuel  Ray  P\ 


LESSOR:  Carol  Denise  Phariss 


STATE  OF 


TEXAS 


} 


}  ss. 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  } 
This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 
t_day  of.  |du<n  lA^V    .  20£$ by 


Seal: 


Signature 


Printed 


