Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Oct  17  09:40  AM 

Fee:  $  20.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  2  Pages 


D208397567 


Suzanne  Henderson 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  UCENSE  NUMBER. 


XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07JB 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  day  of  August,  2008,  between  tela  Ma,?  Malpass,  a  widow  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose 

address  is:  6600  Cathy  Drive,  Watauga,  Texas  76148,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St.,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102, 
Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1  Lessor  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  te  hereby  a^J]^^^!?^^^3^^ 

ttiose rneKed) together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for ^surface  o esujsurtace 
ri£n™a\nf*rtt  water  ranstrutf  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone,  lines,  employee  houses  and.  other 
sffies  on  saidtend  Sssary  oTusefuN  in  exploring,  drilling  for.  producing,  treating,  storing  and  fr^s.P°3J™erals 

pSduced I  frorr! fthe  tendcovVrld  I hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land,"  is  located  In  the 
County  of  Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

0.247  acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  Smith  Drew  Survey,  Abstract  No.  419  and  beirn*  Lot  13,  Block  10  of  Wateufia  ^g^ffS^f^g 
to  the  Town  of  Watauea  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  plat  recorded  in  Volume  388-54, ,  Page  30,  of  the  Plat  K«ords,  l arrant ^ountj, 
Texas  andbeine  those same  lands  particularly  described  in  a  Warranty  Deed  dated  February  21, 1974  from  Mary  May  to  Harvey  E.  Ma  pas and 
wife!  IsTa  M^M^pJa^oMAmttt  myotome  5601,  Page  731/Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  amendments  Aereof,  mcluding 
streets,  easements  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereof,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

This  is  a  non-development  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  i ^P*!?*1^^ 
herein  on  the  surface  of  said  lands.  However,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  said  lands,  or  part  thereof,  with  other  lands  to 
comprise  an  oil  and/"  gas  development  unit.  It  is  the  intention  of  Lessor  to  allow  Lessee  to  explore  for  oil  and/or  gas i  without  using .the «^«<J 
LeTr's  la!d  for  any  operations.P  This  clause  shall  take  precedence  over  any  references  to  surface  operations  contained  within  the  preprinted 
portion  of  this  lease. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  ^g^V*  or 
above  descrtoed  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  imitation,  prescription,  possession  reversion,  after-acquired  trtte  c- JJnrecorded 
Sment  w  (b?  as  to  wnich  l5so>  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supptemental  instrument reques edl by 
Lesseefor  a  rnore cSSete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land1  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus or  otter  payrnent 
hinder  saSlanc Tshall  be  darned  to  contain  ,247  acres,  whether  actual^  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  .acreage  in  any 
tract  shall  b?dee/ned  to  be  ffioie  acreage  thereoTLessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and 
options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remair, i  in >  force  for  ^J™  °*  ^nv*|§ 
from  the  dale  hereof,  hereinafter  called%rimary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  saw 
land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3  As  royalty  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  ttie  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  jg  vvells,  the 
equal '  25%  pah  of  all  of  product 

poste  dSef  price  of  such  25%  ,  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage -tanks Ogsort ' '"terest^eaher 
Sse  to  bear_S  of  the  cosToTlreating  oil  to  render  it  marketeble  pipe  line  oil;  (b) i  To  pay  Lessor -on i  gas  and  casinghead  gas  P^lucedfrom 
sakTfand I  (1)  wlvensbld  by  Lessee  25%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  The  well,  or  <2)  when  used 
sa  d  tend  orinfce rnanufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  25%  of  such  gas  and  casinghead  gas 
S T f  Say ^^Le^or  ™allS%?ierals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land  one-te rjth  elhenr, .kind  w^^^^"; 
^Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dpHar  ($1-00)  per  long  ton  "W^.ffi 
prirrav  terni  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any P°rtfj1.pne17rl?*'Ht^e 
pooled  capabe  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  forceas  though  operations 
Were TbeingMnducted  on  sai3  land  for  so  long  as  said  wePs  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in force  a s  if  noshuWn had 
ockirred-Iessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize  or  market  me  minerals  capable  o  be. Ingj P^uced  from 
saw  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  difigence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  faalHies ^ther than  weH  facihfes ( a^ndord^ary 
lease  facilfoes  of  flow  lines,  separator,  andlease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labortrouble  or  to  ma  rke .gas jjpon  tenro  unacceptable 
o  Lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut:m  for  a  penqd  of  nine *  gearing  days  and 
during  such  feme  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land ,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  perwd  Lessee  shaU  pay  or  tender  by 
checR  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  $1.00  for  each  acre  of  tend  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shaH  make >  hke 
payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  penod  if  upon  such  ann  versa ry  this lease  is 
being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  offhis  paragraph.  Each  such paymenf  or  tender  shaB  be  madeto  the parties who  at 
toe  t?me  of| payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  tease  if  the  wells  were  Pj^uTO 
deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories ^arttess >  of nf  WS  in  the 
ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled^ '  recewe 
same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  rovalty  m  the >  rnanner above 'Specified 
efther  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownershps  thereof;  as  Lessee  may  elect ^payment 
hSnder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entrtled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  deposrtory 
bank  provide/for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  n  Paragraph^ 
hereof  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or 
owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 


of  the  following:  (I)  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas.  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  no  liquids  in  *e  subsurface  reservoir J3) 
minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  junsdiction.  If  larger  unite  than  any  of  those >  herein 
permitted;  either  at  the  time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under -any  governmental  rule  o^^™  ^ 
operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular  location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  alowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  dnlling,  or  already  drilled,  any  such  unit  may 
be  established  or  enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as 
to  each  desired  unit  by  executing  an  instrument  Identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  please  *JX522h 
Such  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the  date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  Instrument  or  instmments  make  no  such 
provision  then  such  unit  shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be 
exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been 
established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established 
hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leaseho  d  intereste  in  lands 
within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  tor 
all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered 
bv  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion 
of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres 
in  such  land  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the 
production  so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments 
out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced 
therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  ot 
royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requinng  production  of  oil  or  gas. 
The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any 
interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  between  partes  owning 
interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  rt  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to 
release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for 
unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve 


which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  tflis  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  rema  n  in  force  so 
lonq  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty 
interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within 
this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of 


production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or 
hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deiver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shaH  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recomputing,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  wel  in  search 
for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in 
all  operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shaH  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to 
draw  and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor. 
Lessee  shal  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shall  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its 
principal  place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals 
or  duty  certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such 
court  records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the 
validity  of  such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay 
or  tender  such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied.  Lessor  shaH 
notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after 
receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice 
shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty 
(60)  days  after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  al  or  any 
of  the  alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  tf  this 
lease  is  canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  wel  as  to  which  there  are 
operations  to  constitute  a  dnling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres), 
such  acreage  to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  neariy  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  In  such  shape  as  then 
existing  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such 
easements  on  said  land  as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing 
surface  faciloes  necessary  or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  pnmarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shaH  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
ngnts  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oH,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  fuH  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
merein,  rf  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  AH  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease 
(whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it 
without  regard  to  whether  rt  is  executed  by  alt  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  In  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
tend,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shaH  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  dnlled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or 
surfacei restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  In  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may 
be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since 
drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  landor  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any 
such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  wh  ich  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this 
lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other 
operations  under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land. 
Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  Is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this 
lease,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

J  5*  J!}e  P9ns,ic,eration  Paid  fof  this  lease  shall  also  constitute  consideration  for  an  option  to  the  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns, 
to  extend  the  initial  three  (3)  year  primary  term  for  a  second  two  (2)  year  term.  This  option  may  be  exercised  anytime  during  the  initial 
primary  term  by  delivery  of  payment  of  an  additional  bonus  of  $18.500.00  per  net  mineral  acre.  The  bonus  payment  shall  constitute 
notice  to  Lessor  of  exercise  of  the  option.  In  the  event  Lessee  elects  to  exercise  this  option  and  makes  the  bonus  payment  provided 
above,  then  all  terms  of  this  lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  if  the  original  primary  term  was  five  (5)  years. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


for 


LESSOR:  Isla  Mary  Malpass 7 


STATE  OF 


-  } 

COUNTY  OF  -fflflTUVr  }*' 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the    /V   day  of  fiuo.^.d- 


LESSOR: 

(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 

 ,  200£  by 


Isla  Marv  Malpass.  a  widow 


Signature  rh^f/t<^ 


1L 


Seal: 


BRYAN  CHARLES  FERRANT 
Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
March  11.  2012 


Printed 


Notary  Public 


