Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Oct  24  08:06  AM 

D208404876 

Fee:  $  28.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  4  Pages 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  <5KaA1!tl10*TftE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  S3  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

1 1  IIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  ihis  21st  day  of  July,  2008.  by  and  between  Margaret  C.  McWhorter.  Lessor  {whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is 
4007  Rowan  Dr.  Fort  Worth.  Texas  76116.  and  FOUR  SEVENS  EN  ERG  V  CO..  LLC  201  Main  Street  Suite  1455.  Fort  Worth.  Texas  761U2.  as  Usscc.  All 

printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared 
jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  U-ssee  the  following 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

The  North  60  feet  of  Lot  13,  In  Block  43,  University  Place,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  According  to  the  Plat  thereof  Recorded  in 
Volume  800,  Page  210,  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  ATTACHED  HERETO  AND  MADE  A  PART  HEREOF  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 

in  the  county  of  Tarrant.  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  ,22^3  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 
prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon 
substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of 
land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and.  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash 
bonus.  Ussor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered  I  or 
the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or 
less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Three  (S\  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  lor  as  long  thereafter 
as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise 
maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  koyallics  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  Kor  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-five  Percent  <25%t  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the 
wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the 
wellhead  market  price  thai  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  Held  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  (he  royally  shall  be 
Twenty-five  Percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  (axes  and  production,  severance,  or  other 
excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the 
continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price 
then  prevailing  in  (he  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  (he  same 
or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more 
wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells 
are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  eilher  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  arc  shut- 
in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made 
to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  ol  the  end  of 
said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  b> 
operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the 
end  of  the  90-day  period  nexl  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  I  cssec  liable  for  the 
amount  due.  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  (his  lease. 

4  All  shui-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which 
shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  tor  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by 
check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  (o  the  depository  or  to  the 
I  cssor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason 
fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  (o  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository 
agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Ixcepi  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "  dry  hole")  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit 
boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  torcc 
it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or 
restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such 
cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  (hereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  I  ,essec  is  then  engaged 
in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more 
ol  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well 
capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent 
operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b>  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all 
depths  or  /ones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  lo  such  other  lands  or  interests. 
The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  tor  a  gas 
well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas 
well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  lo  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction 
lo  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental 
authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well 
with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard 
lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross 
completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  oflhc  gross  * 
completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  pari  of  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  lessor's  royally  is 
calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  lotal  gross  acreage  in  llic 
unit,  bul  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Ussee's  pooling  rights  hereunder, 
and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  eilher  before  or  aller 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  lo 


conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue 
of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating 
the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any 
part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral 
estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  pan,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60 
days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any 
time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository, 
either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall 
not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by 
this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this 
lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the 
interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby.  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall 
be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized 
herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises 
as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads, 
canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to 
discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the 
leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the 
ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial 
termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less 
than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage 
caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon. 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the 
term  of  mis  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor 
disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay 
shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations 
are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase 
from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming 
effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the 
offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and 
preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in 
the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is 
litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which 
are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to 
royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes, 
mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to 
whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the 
event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest, 
until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 
operations. 

1 7.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  Two  (2>  years  from 
the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this 
lease, 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market 
sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease 
payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or 
down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor 
would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction 
based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


by  Maroaret  C.  McWhorter. 


r 


SADIE  SEBASTIAN 
MyCommMon  ExpttM 
Jurw  12. 2011 


Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires 


2 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Paid-Hp  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (No  Surface 
Use)  dated  the  21st  day  of  July,  2008,  by  and  between  Margaret  C.  McWhorter  as  Lessor, 
and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO.,  L.L.C.,  as  Lessee. 

18.  No  Warranty  of  Title:  This  Lease  is  given  subject  to  all  mineral  reservations  of  record. 
Lessor  warrants  that  Lessor  is  the  owner  of  the  Land,  but  does  not  warrant  title  to  minerals.  Lessee  is 
relying  upon  its  own  title  search. 

19.  Royalty:  It  is  agreed  and  understood  that  Lessor's  royalty  interest  will  never  be  charged 
with  any  part  of  Lessee's  direct  cost  of  producing,  storing,  separating,  dehydrating,  compressing, 
transporting  (excluding  common  carrier  tariffs  if  the  sales  price  is  a  market  value  price  at  a  delivery  point 
significantly  removed  from  the  wellhead.)  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  that, 
notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor 
under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing, 
separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and 
other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form;  however,  any  such 
costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better 
price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost 
of  such  enhancements.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than, 
the  price  received  by  Lessee. 

20.  Limited  to  Hydrocarbons:  It  is  also  expressly  understood  that  this  lease  covers  only  Oil, 
Gas  and  other  hydrocarbon  substances,  including  sulfur  produced  in  conjunction  therewith,  in  and  under 
the  above  described  property,  and  that  accordingly  all  other  associated  substances  and  minerals  are 
excepted  from  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  lease  and  reserved  to  Lessor. 

21.  Vertical  Severance:  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  or  after 
cessation  of  continuous  development  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  lease  shall  terminate 
as  to  all  depths  lying  below  100  feet  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  depth  for  which 
production  casing  has  been  set  by  Lessee  on  the  above  described  premises  or  upon  land  with  which  these 
lands  may  be  pooled  for  production. 

22.  Horizontal  Severance:  At  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  all  acres  of  land  not  then 
included  in  a  producing  proration  unit  consisting  of  land  approved  for  said  well  by  the  State  of  Texas 
Railroad  Commission  or  other  governmental  regulatory  body  or  competent  jurisdiction,  shall  be  released 
by  Lessee  and  a  release  filed  of  record  in  the  county  where  the  property  is  located  and  a  copy  furnished  to 
Lessor. 

23.  Royalty  Due:  Accounting  and  payment  to  Lessor  of  royalties  from  the  production  of  oil 
and  gas  herein  provided  shall  commence  no  later  than  One  Hundred  Twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of 
first  production  as  pursuant  to  Section  91.402;  Subchapter  J.  "Payment  for  Proceeds  of  Sale"  of  Texas 
Natural  Resource  Code,  Oil  and  Gas.  First  production  for  a  gas  well  shall  be  defined  as  the  date  of  first 
sale  of  gas  and  for  an  oil  well  the  date  oil  is  first  produced,  other  than  for  testing  purposes.  Thereafter 
unless  otherwise  specifically  provided  herein,  all  accountings  and  payments  of  royalties  shall  be  made  on 
or  before  the  last  day  of  the  second  calendar  month  following  the  calendar  month  in  which  the  production 
occurred.  Unless  otherwise  herein  expressly  provided,  any  royalties  or  other  payments  provided  for  in 
this  lease  which  are  suspended  or  not  paid  to  Lessor  within  the  time  period  specified  therefore  shall 
accrue  interest  at  the  rate  of  twelve  percent  (12%)  per  annum,  from  the  due  date  until  paid.  Acceptance 
by  Lessor,  its  successors,  agents  or  assigns  of  royalties  which  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or 
estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  or  recover  any  and  all  interest  due  thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof, 
unless  the  written  acceptance  or  acknowledgment  by  Lessor  to  Lessee  expressly  so  provides.  Any  tender 
or  payment  to  Lessor  of  a  sum  less  than  the  total  amount  due  to  Lessor  hereunder  which  is  made  or 
intended  to  be  made  as  an  offer  of  settlement  or  accord  by  or  on  behalf  of  Lessee,  its  agents,  successors  or 
assigns,  must  be  accompanied  by  a  Notice. 

24.  Amendment  and  Division  Orders:  The  provisions  contained  herein  regarding  acreage 
covered  by  this  lease  which  shall  be  held  by  drilling  operations  on  or  production  from  any  pooled  unit  or 
units  shall  not  be  altered  or  amended  by  any  pooling  unitization  or  like  agreement  or  instrument,  or  any 
amendment  thereto  or  ratification  or  acknowledgment  thereof,  unless  the  same  shall  be  specifically 
designated  as  an  amendment  of  such  paragraph  for  such  purpose.  It  is  further  agreed  that  neither  this 
lease  nor  any  terms  or  provisions  hereof  shall  be  altered,  amended,  extended  or  ratified  by  any  division 
order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor,  his  successors,  agents,  or  assigns.  If  Lessee  shall  require  the 
execution  of  a  division  Order  for  payment  of  royalty  payable  under  this  lease,  then  the  only  form  of 


Addendum  to  Lease 


Page  1  of 2 


Division  Order  permitted  for  Lessee's  use  shall  be  such  form  promulgated  by  the  State  of  Texas  and  set 
forth  in  Section  91.402(d),  of  the  Texas  Natural  Resource  Code  as  amended  from  time  to  time.  Transfer 
Orders,  if  required,  shall  be  solely  for  the  purpose  of  confirming  the  interest  transferred  by  Lessor.  In  the 
event  of  production,  all  division  orders  prepared  by  Lessee  and  its  assigns  shall  eliminate  all  references  to 
ratification  of  Lessee's  acts,  ratification  of  the  unit  and  ratification  of  gas  or  oil  purchase  contracts.  If 
such  statements  are  contained  therein,  such  ratifications  are  void  and  of  no  effect.  Any  amendment, 
alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  lease,  or  of  any  term  or  provision  of  this  lease,  shall  be  made 
only  by  an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing  the  specific  terms  or 
provisions  affected  and  the  proposed  change  or  modification  thereof,  and  executed  by  the  party  against 
whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced,  and  any 
purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so  drafted  shall  be  of  no  force  or  effect. 

25.  Hold  Harmless:  Lessee  shall  indemnify  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  and  against  any 
and  all  claims,  actions,  liability,  loss,  damage  or  expense  of  every  kind  and  nature,  including,  but  not 
limited  to  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  costs,  for  damage  to  property  including  environmental  damage 
to  surface  properties  and  underground  water  of  any  person,  firm  or  corporation  or  for  injury  to  or  death  of 
any  person,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  employees  of  Lessee,  its  successors,  assigns,  contractors  or 
subcontractors,  which  may,  in  whole  or  in  part,  be  caused  by  or  arise  out  of  operations  conducted 
hereunder  or  the  enjoyment  of  this  lease  or  the  exercise  of  any  right  granted  hereunder  or  any  obligation 
imposed  hereby. 

26.  Release:  It  is  understood  and  agreed,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained 
herein,  that  within  Forty-five  (45)  days  after  this  lease  has  expired  or  any  portion  thereof  has  terminated, 
Lessee  or  any  assignee  thereof  shall  furnish  Lessor,  or  Lessor's  heirs  or  assigns,  with  a  recordable  release 
of  this  lease  or  such  portions  which  have  been  terminated  under  the  terms  of  this  lease  agreement. 

27.  Unitization.  Not  withstanding  any  provision  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  it  is 
agreed  that  should  Lessee  exercise  the  option  to  pool  or  combine  the  land  covered  herein  into  a 
pooled  unit  with  other  land  or  leases  as  herein  provided,  then  such  unit  will  include  the  entire 
leased  premises  covered  and  not  a  portion  thereof. 

28.  Addendum  Provisions  Govern:  The  foregoing  Addendum  and  the  provisions  of  the 
Addendum  shall  supersede  and  govern  the  provisions  of  the  lease,  wherever  those  provisions  are  in 
conflict  with  the  Addendum.  This  lease,  including  the  Addendum,  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of,  and  be 
binding  upon  the  parties  hereto  and  other  respective  heirs,  representatives,  successors  and  assigns. 

29.  Shut-In  Royalty  Clause  Limitation:  Notwithstanding  any  provision  contained  herein  to 
the  contrary,  after  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  solely  by  reason 
of  the  shut-in  royalty  payments,  as  provided  heretofore,  for  any  one  shut-in  period  of  more  than  two  (2) 
years. 


Signed  for  Identification: 


Addendum  to  Lease 


Page  2  of 2 


