Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Oct  27  10:05  AM 

Fee:  $  44.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  8  Pages 


D208406190 


Suzanne  Henderson 

REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM 
ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY 
BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

(Crestwood) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  22*  day  of  September  2008,  by  and  between  Jason 
L.  Crane  and  spouse,  Kari  L.  Crane,  whose  mailing  address  is  3712  Oaklawn  Dr.,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76107,  as 
Lessor,  and  FOUR  SEVENS  ENERGY  CO.,  LLC,  201  Main  Street,  Suite  1455,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  as 

Lessee.  AH  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other 
provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  Leased  Premises.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  this  Lease,  and  the  covenants 
herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land, 
hereinafter  called  the  leased  premises: 

SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  FOR  PROPERTY  DESCRIPTION 

in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  containing  .343  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor 
may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing, 
producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and 
gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate, 
distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  only  those  gases 
associated  with  hydrocarbons.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals. 
The  leased  premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto. 
Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  above  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually 
more  or  less. 

2.  Term.  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  thirty-six  (36)  months  from  the  date  hereof  (the  ''primary  term"),  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  commercial  paying  quantities  from  the 
leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  hereof.  Lessor,  for  itself  arid  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the 
primary  term  of  this  Lease  for  one  additional  period  of  two  (2)  years  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or 
tendering  to  Lessor  prior:  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  bonus  consideration  of  $20,000.00  per  net  mineral  acre  as 
calculated  to  the  center  of  adjoining  streets,  alleys,  rights-of-way  and  easements,  and  with  the  extension  to  otherwise 
be  on  other  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty 
shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead 
or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no 
such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for 
production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered 
hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less 
a  proportionate  part  of  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing 
right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in 
the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is 
such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding 
date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  Lessor's  right  to  receive  its  royalty  share  of 
production  is  superior  to  any  and  all  claims  made  after  the  effective  date  of  this  Lease. 

If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  are  capable  Of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but 
such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that 
has  been  drilled  but  not  fraced.  within  eighteen  (18)  months  following  the  completion  of  drilling  shall  be  deemed 
incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five 
dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or 
before  each  anniversary  of  die  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom 
is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided,  however,  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if 
production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no 
shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or 
production.  This  Lease  may  not  be  maintained  in  force  and  effect  after  the  end  of  its  primary  term  solely  by  the 


payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  a  longer  period  of  time  than  one  (1)  year,  or  for  shorter  periods  of  time  at  various 
intervals  not  to  exceed  in  the  aggregate  three  (3)  years  in  all. 

It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all 
oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  credit  or  benefit  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without 
deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gatherinjg,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing, 
transporting,  or  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  to  be  produced  under  the  Lease;  however,  in  the  event 
Lessee  determines  in  good  faith  that  it  can  obtain  a  higher  price  at  a  market  located  outside  of  the  local  market,  and 
Lessee  incurs  transportation  costs  charged  by  an  unaffiliated  interstate  or  intrastate  gas  pipeline  in  order  to  enhance 
the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  Other  products,  Lessor's  pro  rata  share  of  such  costs  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share 
of  production.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  ever  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than  the  price  to  be  received  by  Lessee,  or  a 
price  less  than  the  price  that  could  have  been  obtained  from  a  sale  in  the  local  market.  Lessee  agrees  to  provide  and 
make  available  to  Lessor  upon  written  request  Lessee's  records  maintained  or  utilized  in  connection  with  any  efforts 
to  enhance  the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  be  produced  pursuant  to  and  in  connection  with  this  Lease 
together  with  any  costs  paid  or  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  hereunder.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the 
provisions  of  this  section  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as  "surplusage"  under 
the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank,  939  S.W.2d  1 18  (Tex.  1997). 

As  used  in  this  Lease,  an  "affiliate"  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  the  parent  company  or  a  subsidiary  of 
Lessee,  a  corporation  or  other  entity  having  common  ownership  with  Lessee,  a  partner  or  joint  venture  of  Lessee 
with  respect  to  the  ownership  or  operation  of  the  processing  plant,  a  corporation  or  other  entity  in  which  Lessee 
owns  a  ten  percent  (10%)  or  greater  interest,  or  any  individual,  corporation  or  other  entity  that  owns  a  ten  percent 
(10%)  or  greater  interest  in  Lessee. 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written 
notice  of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency  by  check  or  draft.  Lessee  shall  pay 
all  royalties  on  or  before  within  60  days  succeeding  the  month  of  production;  provided  however,  royalties  on  the 
first  month's  production  from  any  well  shall  not  be  due  and  payable  until  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  from  the 
date  of  first  production.  If  Lessee  shall  fail  to  pay  royalties  as  and  when  required,  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor  interest  at 
the  rate  if  one  and  a  half  percent  (1 .5%)  per  month  (but  in  no  event  at  a  rate  greater  than  the  highest  rate  allowed  by 
law)  on  the  unpaid  royalties  from  the  date  such  royalties  were  due  to  be  paid  until  such  royalties  are  actually  paid  in 
full.  Initial  bonus  monies  shall  be  paid  to  Lessor  in  currency  by  check  or  draft  by  Lessee. 

5.  Continuous  Development  Obligations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  (a  "dry  hole")  under  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in 
paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  of  Section  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise 
being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an 
existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within 
ninety  (90)  days  after,  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter, 
this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other 
operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long 
as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days, 
and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long 
thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After 
completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar 
circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by 
any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  If  this  Lease  is  maintained  beyond  the  expiration  of 
the  primary  term  by  production  or  otherwise,  it  will  remain  in  force  as  to  all  acreage  and  depths  as  long  as  there  is 
no  lapse  of  more  than  180  days  between  the  completion  of  one  well  and  the  commencement  of  the  actual  drilling  of 
another  well.  The  commencement  of  actual  drilling  means  the  penetration  of  the  surface  with  a  drilling  rig  capable 
of  drilling  to  the  anticipated  total  depth  of  the  well.  After  a  well  is  commenced,  drilling  operations  must  continue 
with  diligence  and  in  a  good  and  workmanlike  manner  in  a  good  faith  effort  to  reach  the  anticipated  total  depth.  A 
well  will  be  deemed  to  have  been  completed  on  the  date  of  the  release  of  the  completion  rig  from  the  drillsite.  The 
permitted  time  between  wells  shall  be  cumulative  so  that  if  a  well  is  commenced  prior  to  the  date  it  is  required  to  be 
commenced,  the  number  of  days  prior  to  the  date  on  which  the  well  should  have  been  commenced  shall  be  added  to 
the  time  permitted  for  the  next  well.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells 
except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  of  the  leased  premises  or  interests 
therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by 
this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to 
do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists 
with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this 
Lease  shall  be  included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by 
such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum 
acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%),  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  three  hundred 
and  twenty  (320)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%).  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing, 
the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate 
governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of 
less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet 


or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard 
lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the 
horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In 
exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  first  production.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first 
production.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased  premises 
shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit.  Pooling  in  one  or 
more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not 
the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by 
the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such 
governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the 
revised  unit,  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the 
unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall 
thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent 
cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and 
stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

All  properties  within  the  Crestwood  Addition  neighborhood  area  in  which  Lessee  has  the  right  so  to  do 
shall  be  pooled  into  a  proration  unit,  not  necessarily  the  same  proration  unit,  by  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or 
extension  thereof,  whether  or  not  an  actual  wellbore  is  located  beneath  each  particular  property.  For  purposes  of  this 
Paragraph  and  Lease,  the  "Crestwood  Addition  neighborhood"  means  that  area  so  designated  within  the  general  area 
bounded  by  Rockwood  Park  Drive  on  the  north  and  west,  Greenwood  Cemetery  on  the  east  and  White  Settlement 
Road  on  the  south,  as  more  particularly  set  out  and  designated  "Crestwood  Addition"  on  plats  filed  of  public  record, 
and  hereinafter  referred  to  as  Crestwood. 

7.  Partial  Interests.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  frill  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  shall  he  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  frill 
mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  Assignment.  Prior  to  any  assignment  of  this  lease  or  any  rights  thereunder  Lessee  agrees  to  notify  Lessor  of 
the  name  and  address  of  the  proposed  assignee(s)  and  to  obtain  Lessor's  prior  written  consent,  which  consent  shall 
not  be  unreasonably  withheld  or  delayed,  provided  that  assignments  of  working  interests  to  officers,  directors  and 
subsidiaries  of  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.,  may  be  made  without  such  consent  so  long  as  the  aggregate 
working  interest  in  this  lease  conveyed  by  all  such  assignments  does  not  exceed  a  ten  percent  (10%)  working 
interest.  Every  such  assignment  or  sublease  which  shall  be  made  without  the  written  consent  of  Lessor  first  had  and 
obtained  shall  be  void,  and  although  made  with  the  written  consent  of  Lessor,  any  such  assignment  or  sublease  shall, 
nevertheless,  be  void  unless  it  also  contains  a  limitation  in  favor  of  Lessor  requiring  that  the  written  consent  of 
Lessor  must  be  obtained  prior  to  any  further  assignment  or  subletting  of  the  rights  of  Lessee  hereunder. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provision,  Lessee  shall  assign  1 00%  of  its  interest  in  this  lease  as  of  the  Effective 
Date  to  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.,  an  Oklahoma  Limited  Liability  Company  ("Chesapeake"),  and 
Chesapeake  will  be  bound  by  all  of  the  terms,  conditions  and  obligations  of  this  Lease;  such  assignment  shall  take 
place  within  one  (1)  year  of  the  Effective  Date  of  this  Lease,  or  this  Lease  shall  automatically  terminate  in  its 
entirety  and  be  of  ho  further  force  or  effect. 

9.  Depth  Limitation.  This  Lease  covers  only  those  depths  from  the  surface  down  to  100  feet  below  the  base  of 
the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  Bamett  Shale  formation.  All  other  depths  are  hereby  saved,  excepted  and 
reserved  to  Lessor  and  excluded  herefrom. 

10.  Surface  Use.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns 
shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon,  or  conduct  any  operations, 
including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical/seismic  operations,  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the 
leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface 
location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood  streets  or 
thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  except  in  the  event  of  an  emergency  situation  (and  only  for  so  long 
as  said  emergency  exists)  or  only  if  Lessee  has  obtained  an  approved  truck  route  from  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  that 
includes  such  streets. 

1 L  Water.  Lessee  shall  not  have  or  acquire  any  rights  in  and  to  the  water  from  the  leased  premises.  No  surface 
water  or  underground  fresh  water  from  the  leased  premises  will  be  used  for  any  reason.  Lessee  shall  comply  with  all 
applicable  rules  in  disposition  of  salt  water,  brine,  or  other  fluids  utilized  in  or  resulting  from  operations,  and  shall 
not  cause  or  permit  any  such  substances  to  damage  or  pollute  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  any  fresh  water 
sands  lying  thereunder.  The  leased  premises  shall  not  be  used  for  salt  water  disposal,  hauling  by  truck  or  removal 
by  pipelines 

12.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking 
of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and 
technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity 
of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If 
Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations,  including  but  not  limited  to  compression 


equipment,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression 
muffler  or  like  equipment. 


13.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or 
implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of 
wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations 
or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire, 
flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability 
to  obtain  a  satisfactory  ,  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production, 
or  by  any  other  cause  . not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such 
prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option*  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or 
other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted.  Notwithstanding  anything  foregoing  to  contrary,  the 
failure  or  inability  of  Lessee  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take 
or  transport  such  production  shall  not  by  considered  "force  majeure".  This  Lease  shall  not  be  extended  for  more 
than  a  cumulative  two  year  period  by  reason  of  "force  majeure. 

14.  Environmental  Indemnification.  Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  Lessor  and  Lessor's  heirs, 
personal  representatives,  and  assigns  from  and  against  all  losses  that  may  be  asserted  against,  imposed  upon  or 
incurred  by  Lessor  and  Lessor's  successors  and  assigns  by  reason  of,  resulting  from,  or  in  connection  with  any 
environmental  hazard  or  damage  on  the  Leased  Premises  that  are  attributable  to  periods  of  time  during  the  term  of 
the  Lease;  and  that  are  deemed  to  include,  without  limitation,  claims,  demands  and/or  causes  of  action  for 
negligence  on  the  part  of  the  Lessee,  for  strict  liability  in  tort,  or  for  strict  liability,  or  for  other  liability  under  any 
present  or  future  state  or  federal  law  or  regulation,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Act,  TEX. 
REV.  CIV.  STAT.  ANN.  4477-7,  the  Texas  Clean  Water  Act,  TEX.  WATER  CODE  ANN.  Chaps.  26  and  27,  the 
Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act,  42  U.S.  §690  1  et  seq.,  and  the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response, 
Compensation,  and  Liability  Act,  42  U.S.C.  §9601  et  seq.,  Federal  Water  Pollution  Control  Act,  33  U.S.C.  §1251  et 
seq.  and  such  amendments  as  may  be  made  to  these  statutes.  The  liabilities,  obligations,  losses,  damages,  penalties, 
fines,  claims,  suits,  costs,  and  damages  required  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  covered  by  mis  indemnity  include  closure 
costs,  cleanup  costs,  containment  costs,  damages  to  persons,  damage  to  property,  damages  to  resources  or  to  the 
environment;  diminution  in  the  value  of  the  surface  estate,  all  legal  expenses,  all  court  costs,  all  other  reasonable 
expenses  incurred  by  the  Lessor  for  the  defense  of  any  claim  or  cause  of  action  covered  by  this  indemnity,  all 
engineering  and  expert  fees,  and  expenses  for  necessary  surveys,  testing  and  monitoring. 

15.  Additional  Indemnification.  LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND 
LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  AND  ALL 
LIABILITIES,  ■.  CLAIMS,  LOSSES  AND  DEMANDS  FOR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  PERSONAL 
INJURY  OR  DEATH,  AND  EXPENSES,  INCLUDING  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT 
FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS,  ARISING  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY  FROM  ACTIONS,  INACTIONS 
OR  OCCUPANCY  OF  THE  LEASE  PREMISES  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  OF  AND  BY 
LESSEE  OR  ITS  ASSIGNS  OR  THE  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  CONTRACTORS  OR  INVITEES  OF 
EITHER  OF  THEM. 

16.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at 
the  address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be 
made  by  registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated. 

17.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral 
estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or 
by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded. 
By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has 
conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of 
title  failures  and  shall  have  no  recourse  against  Lessor,  its  successors  or  assigns  for  such. 

18.  Venue  and  Legal  Fees.  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas, 
where  all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable. 

19.  Communications.  Upon  Lessor's  written  request,  Lessee  will  allow  free  access  to  books,  records  and 
drilling  data  (except  for  Lessee's  proprietary  seismic  data)  accumulated  pursuant  to  operations  conducted  on  the 
leased  premises  for  up  to  two  (2)  years  prior  to  such  a  request  provided  it  has  the  authority  to  do  so.  Such  request 
shall  be  limited  to  one  request  per  year  during  the  Lessee's  normal  business  hours,  provided  that,  if  the  response  by 
Lessee  contains  information  that  reasonably  leads  to  a  request  by  Lessor  for  additional  follow-up  information,  then 
Lessee  will  allow  free  access  to  such  additional  information.  All  information  provided  by  Lessee  or  obtained  by 
Lessor  according  to  this  paragraph  that  Lessee  identifies  or  designates  as  proprietary  and  confidential  shall  be 
deemed  proprietary  and  confidential  during  the.  primary  term  of  this  lease  and  for  as  long  as  oil  and  gas  is  produced 
therefrom,  and  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  thereafter,  all  such  information  shall  remain  strictly  confidential  and 
Lessor  shall  not  disclose  such  information  to  any  third  party  (other  than  to  financial  advisors,  accountants,  and 
counsel  of  Lessor,  or  as  required  to  comply  with  any  legal  requirement  for  production  of  such  information)  without 
the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessee;  provided,  however,  the  foregoing  obligations  of  Lessor  shall  not  apply  to  such 
portions  of  such  information  which  (i)  are  currently  possessed  by  or  available  to  Lessor,  (ii)  are  or  become  generally 
available  to  the  public  other  than  as  a  result  of  a  disclosure  by  Lessor,  (iii)  come  into  the  possession  of  Lessor  from  a 


source  which  is  not  prohibited  from  disclosing  such  information  to  Lessor  by  a  legal,  contractual,  or  fiduciary 
obligation  to  Lessee,  or  any  other  person,  or  (iv)  is  required  to  be  disclosed  in  order  to  enforce  the  terms  of  this  lease 
or  Lessee's  obligations  hereunder.  . 

20.  Division  Orders  and  Amendments,  It  is  agreed  that  neither  this  Lease  nor  any  of  its  terms  or  provisions 
shall  be  altered,  amended,  extended  or  ratified  by  any  division  order  or  transfer  order  executed  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's 
successors,  agents  or  assigns.  If  Lessee  requires  the  execution  of  a  division  order  for  payment  of  royalty  under  this 
Lease,  then  it  shall  follow  arid  be  in  compliance  with  Section  91.402(d)  of  the  Texas  Natural  Resources  Code,  as 
amended  from  time  to  time.  Any  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  Lease,  or  any  term  or 
provision  of  this  Lease,  shall  be  made  only  by  an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing 
the  specific  terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the  proposed  change  or  modification  hereof,  and  executed  by  the  party 
against  whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be  enforced.  Any  purported 
amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so  drafted  shall  be  of  no  force  or  effect. 

21.  Waiver  of  Claims  and  Nei£hborhood  Association  and  Committee  Members.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the 
terms  of  this  Lease,  the  amount  of  the  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee 
(herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms")  with  respect  to  this  Lease,  were  obtained,  wholly  or  partially,  as  a  result  of 
negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the  Crestwood  Association  Gas  Leasing  Committee  consisting  of  a  committee  of 
unpaid  volunteers  including  Tom  Roberts,  Fred  Closuit,  Bill  Warner  and  Bob  Hayes  (hereafter  called  the 
"Committee  Members").  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  spent  by  the  Committee  Members  in  negotiating  and 
obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on  behalf  of  Lessor  and  other  property  owners,  Lessor,  on  behalf  of  the  Lessor  and 
the  Lessor's  agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors,  parents,  subsidiaries,  affiliated  corporations  or  other  affiliated 
entities,  successors,  partners,  principals,  assigns,  attorneys,  servants,  employees,  heirs,  consultants,  and  other 
representatives,  does  hereby  release  and  forever  discharge  the  Committee  Members  and  the  Crestwood  Association 
from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and 
liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statutory  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of 
recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown,  past  present,  or  future,  which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against 
the  Committee  Members  and  the  Crestwood  Association  which  relate  to,  arise  from,  or  are  in  any  manner  connected 
to  (i)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (ii)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iii)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any 
terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (iv)  any  and  all  representations  made  prior,  during,  and  subsequent  to 
Lessor's  execution  of  this  Lease. 

22.  Decision  of  Lessor.  By  signing  this  Lease,  Lessor  acknowledges  and  stipulates  that  Lessor  was  not  obligated 
to  sign  this  Lease  based  on  die  terms  negotiated  by  the  Crestwood  Association  Gas  Leasing  Committee  with  Lessee 
and  that  Lessor  had  the  right  to  negotiate  its  own  terms  and  with  any  company  prior  to  signing  this  Lease. 
Additionally,  Lessor  acknowledges  that  it  is  Lessor's  obligation  to  investigate  mis  Lease,  all  negotiated  terms,  to 
take  such  action  as  necessary  to  make  an  informed  decision  prior  to  signing  this  Lease,  and  that  the  decision  made 
by  Lessor  in  signing  this  Lease  is  made  after  fully  researching  this  matter  independent  of  any  other  information 
provided  by  the  Crestwood  Association  Gas  Leasing  Committee  or  its  Committee  Members.  It  is  ultimately  the 
responsibility  of  Lessor  to  (i)  determine  if  Lessor  wants  to  negotiate  with  Lessee,  (ii)  fully  investigate  the  issues  and 
facts  related  to  signing  an  oil  and  gas  lease,  and  (iii)  determine  what  terms  are  acceptable  to  Lessor  to  be  included  in 
this  Lease. 

23.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and 
enforced  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of 
the  provisions  herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not 
affect  the  enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate 
that  provision  so  determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such 
provision.  .The  section  titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine 
the  construction  of  this  Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be 
deemed  an  original,  but  all  of  which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well 
as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine,  feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  other(s)  as  the  context 
requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of  this  Lease. 

"The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  shall  be  in  addition  to,  and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to 
payment  of  royalty  under  Texas  law,  including,  without  limitation,  V.T.C.A.  Natural  Resources  Code  §§  91.401 
through  91.405," 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS;  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  hi  the  form 
of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this 
Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are 
final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease 
values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or 
assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different 
terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this 
transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and 
gas  owners. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators, 
successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR:  LESSOR: 

v 


Print  Name 


Print  Name 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  by   Ja*-^     ^-  ^   on  the 

day  of   ,  2008. 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Printed  Name 
Commission  Expires 


KEVIN  JACKSON  CHAPMAN 

'wh  1        *  PubliCi  State  of  Texas 
^  Commission  Expires 

MbbS^         March  20, 201 2 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  by 
day  of  S^1^  ,  2008. 


L  C. 


on  the  ^n6> 


KEVIN  JACKSON  CHAPMAN 

?*.l_A_^1  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
March  20. 2012 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Printed  Name 


Commission  Expires 


EXHIBIT  "A1 


Attached  to  and  made  part  of  that  certain  Oil  &  Gas  lease  dated  22nd  day  of  September  2008,  by  and 
between  Jason  L.  Crane  and  spouse,  Kari  L.  Crane  as  lessor(s),  and  Four  Sevens  Energy  Co.,  L.L.C.,  as 
Lessee. 

.343  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  J.  P.  Thomas  Survey,  A-1525,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  further  described 
as  follows: 


Description 

Lot  H-l,  Block  25  and  28,  Crestwood  (Park  Section),  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  according  to  Plat  recorded  in  Volume  388-149,  Page  79,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

Also  commonly  known  as  3712  Oaklawn  Dr.,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76107. 


