NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  3rd  day  of  September,  200$,  by  and  between  Robert  Franklin  Riley  and  Alteon  Beth  Riley,  whose  address 
is  6421  Canyon  Tr,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76135,  as  Lessor  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION.  LLC,  an  Oklahoma  limited  liability  company.  P.O.  Box 
18496.  Oklahoma  City.  Oklahoma  73154-0496,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as 
Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee 
the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  the  leased  premises: 

0.188  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  John  Breeding  Survey,  A-188,  and  being  more  particularly  described  as  Blk  4R,  Lot  34R,  Highland  Lake 
Addition  in  that  certain  Warranty  Deed  dated  02/21/2008,  and  recorded  in  Instrument  Number  D208065137  of  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County, 
Texas. 

in  the  county  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.188  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire 
by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  For  purposes  of  this  lease, 
"oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all 
condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  In  addition  to  the 
above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  all  accretions,  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto, 
and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises, 
and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the 
number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as 
long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled 
therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other 
liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  and  Twenty  Five  One  Hundredths  Percent  (25.25%) 
of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities, 
provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if 
there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade 
and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  castnghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  and  Twenty  Five  One 
Hundredths  Percent  (25.25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  only  a  proportionate  part  of 
ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at 
the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field, 
then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest 
preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or 
more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying 
quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by 
Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of 
90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty- 
five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on 
or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in 
or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold 
by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period 
next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  as  long  as  it  is  traced  within  one  (1)  year  of  reaching  total  depth.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood 
and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  (ease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for 
more  than  two  (2)  consecutive  years  or  three  (3)  years  in  the  aggregate. 

4.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors.  All 
payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped 
envelope  addressed  to  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  Lessee  designates  a  depository  agent  and  the 
depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at 
Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry 
hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause, 
including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease 
is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for 
drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after 
completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time 
thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as 
long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or 
wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought  in  on  land 
within  400  feet  from  any  boundary  of  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  agrees  within  ninety  (90)  days  from  commencement  of  production  from  such  well  or 
wells  to  commence  the  actual  drilling  of  an  offset  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  if  such  action  would  be  taken  by  a  reasonable  prudent  operator  in 
similar  circumstances.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests, 
as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production, 
whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling 
authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not 
exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum 
acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or 
density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the 
terms  "oil  weir  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil 
ratio  of  1 00,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease 


separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the 
gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which 
includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except 
that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease 
and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in 
one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any 
unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or 
density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by 
such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the 
effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the 
proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit 
and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests.  Nothwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary 
herein,  if  Lessee  exercises  its  right  to  pool  the  leased  premises  with  other  lands,  then  one  hundred  percent  (100%)  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be 
pooled  in  such  unit. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for 
any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased 
premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth 
or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors 
and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no 
change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the 
documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in 
Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such 
shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the 
transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all 
or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the 
transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may.  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising 
with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to 
pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder.  Upon  the  expiration  of 
the  primary  term  or  any  extension  thereof,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  alt 
rights  lying  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  in  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased 
premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith;  provided,  however,  that  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  the  leased  premises  or  on  lands  pooled 
therewith,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  operations. 

10.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder, 
without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations,  including  damage  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the 
leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its 
fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a 
reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations,  ordinances  and 
orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other 
substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations,  ordinances  or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  lease,  this 
lease  shall  control.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by 
inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate 
because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not 
be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  the  term  of  this  lease  shall  not  be  extended  due  to  a  lack  of  markets  for  production  or  any 
other  events  affecting  only  the  economic  or  financial  aspects  of  drilling,  development  or  production. 

12.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  60  days  after  Lessor 
has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  rf  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period. 
However,  Lessor  shall  have  the  right,  at  alt  times  without  providing  such  notice,  to  apply  to,  and  receive  from,  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  equitable 
and  injunctive  relief  from  any  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  or  its  agents,  in  order  to  halt  or  prevent  any  irreparable  harm,  damage  or  loss  to  Lessor,  the 
leased  premises  or  any  improvements  thereon,  the  minerals  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises,  or  any  other  appropriate  rights  or  interests.  In  the 
event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in 
whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so; 
provided,  however,  that  in  the  event  such  a  breach  or  default  if  found,  Lessee  shall  be  liable  to  Lessor  for  any  actual  damages  awarded  in  a  final 
judgment  after  exhausting  all  appeals,  as  well  as  attorney's  fees,  expert  witness  fees,  filing  fees  and  other  costs  incurred  in  connection  with  such 
litigation.  If  Lessee  withholds  any  undisputed  sums  due  to  Lessor  for  a  period  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  written  demand  for  payment  is  made  by  Lessor,  at 
the  election  of  Lessor  this  lease  may  be  terminated 

1 3.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual 
subsurface  well  bore  easement  under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas 
wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive 
any  termination  of  this  lease. 

14.  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises. 
If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may 
reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim 
inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been 
furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

15.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest 
therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  taw  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its 
successor),  are  excluded.  By  acceptance  of  this  lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted 
sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for 
drilling  or  other  operations.  Accordingly,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon  or  conduct  any 
operations  (including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical/seismic  operations)  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  the 
leased  premises,  unless  Lessee  has  received  a  permit  from  the  proper  governmental  authority  allowing  such  operations  (i.e.,  drill  site)  to  be  within  six 
hundred  feet  (600')  or  Lessee  has  obtained  written  waivers  from  property  owners  within  six  hundred  feet  (600')  of  such  operations.  In  no  event  shall 
Lessee  place  the  surface  hole  location  of  any  well  within  two  hundred  feet  (200')  of  any  existing  structures  on  the  leased  premises  without  the  prior 
written  consent  of  Lessor,  which  shall  not  be  unreasonably  withheld.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as  provided  herein,  or 
by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or 
neighborhood  streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  except  in  the  event  of  an  emergency  situation  (and  only  for  so  long  as  said 
emergency  exists)  of  only  if  Lessee  has  obtained  an  approved  truck  route  from  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  or  the  City  of  Lake  Worth  (depending  on  the 
location  of  the  drill  site)  that  includes  such  streets. 

1 7.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  tease  for  an  additional  period  of 
two  (2)  years  from  the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration, 
terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 


18.  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to 
the  Lessor  under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating, 
compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form; 
however,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  any  such  costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or 
other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  incurred  in  an  arms-length  transaction 
with  a  party  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  and  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such  enhancements.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a 
price  that  is  less  than,  or  more  than,  the  price  received  by  Lessee.  As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other 
entity  that  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of 
the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same 
person  or  group  of  persons.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the  provisions  of  this  Paragraph  18  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to 
be  construed  as  surplusage  under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank,  939  S.W.  2d  118  (Tex.  1997). 

19.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

20.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable 
minimum,  taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and 
surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  feet  Lessee's  operation  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If 
Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a 
noise  suppression  hospital-style  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

21 .  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with  their  officers,  employees, 
partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the 
"Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of  action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  Including  environmental  harm,  for 
which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its 
officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises 
or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site,  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this 
tease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate, 
indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage, 
personal  injury  (including  death),  costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any  theory  including 
tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  including  reasonable  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to  environmental 
hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and 
all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the 
leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises; 
and  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  lease  or  any  other  act  or 
omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests,  invitees  and  their  respective 
successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  tills  lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold 
harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided  above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and 
agents  as  described  above.  EXCEPT  AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR 
LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND  WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR 
CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING  CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES 
(INCLUDING  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE  INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT,  ACTIVE,  PASSIVE  OR 
CONCURRENT  SO  LONG  AS  LESSOR'S  CONCURRENT  NEGLIGENCE  IS  NOT  MORE  THAN  FIFTY  PERCENT  (50%)  OF  THE  PRODUCING 
CAUSE  OF  THE  DAMAGES  SUFFERED;  provided,  however,  that  Lessee  shall  have  no  obligation  to  indemnify  or  hold  Lessor  harmless  from 
any  cost,  expense  or  liability  which  may  arise  or  result  from  the  gross  negligence  or  willful  misconduct  of  Lessor.  By  commencing  any 
operations  pursuant  to  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  acknowledge  its  consent  to  the  terms  of  this  Section  21 . 

22.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain  insurance  covering  all  of  its  operations  on  the  leased  premises, 
including  any  work  performed  on  its  behaff  by  contractors,  subcontractors  and  others.  The  policies  shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general 
liability  for  bodily  injury  and  property  damage  with  a  limit  of  $  3,000,000,  blowout  and  loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the 
environment  resulting  from  a  blowout,  including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean  up  and  surface  remediation,  with  a  limit  of  $  3,000,000.  In  addition, 
Lessee  shall  maintain  an  Umbrella  Liability  policy  in  the  amount  of  $  25,000,000.  All  such  policies  shall  name  the  Lessor  as  an  additional  insured  and  will 
provide  for  a  30  day  notice  of  cancellation.  Upon  written  request,  Lessee  shall  furnish  a  certificate  from  the  issuing  insurance  company  or  companies 
evidencing  the  coverage.  Lessee  may  self  insure  for  up  to  $  5,000,000  with  respect  to  the  insurance  coverage  required  of  Lessee,  provided  that  the 
tangible  net  worth  of  Lessee  is,  at  all  times  while  self-insurance  is  in  effect,  in  excess  of  $  1 ,000,000,000. 

23.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  this  lease,  the  amount  of  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  other  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee 
with  respect  to  this  lease  (the  "Negotiated  Terms1')  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers, 
including  Carla  Bezner,  Don  Corley,  Jerry  Welch  and  Mattie  Kitchens  (the  "Lake  Worth  Gas  Lease  Committee'').  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  of  the 
Lake  Worth  Gas  Lease  Committee  in  negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms,  Lessor,  individually  and  on  behalf  of  Lessor's  agents, 
representatives,  family  members,  predecessors,  successors,  heirs  and  assigns,  hereby  releases  and  forever  discharges  the  Lake  Worth  Gas  Lease 
Committee,  and  any  of  its  members,  agents,  and  representatives,  specifically  including  any  attorneys  engaged  by  the  Lake  Worth  Gas  Lease  Committee 
to  facilitate  the  negotiation  and  preparation  of  lease  terms  (the  "Lake  Worth  Releasees"),  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses, 
causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statute  or  other  legal  or 
equitable  theory  of  recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown,  which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  Lake  Worth  Releasees,  which  arise 
out  of  or  relate  to  (a)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (b)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (c)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the 
Negotiated  Terms.  Lessor  further  acknowledges  and  represents  that  (a)  the  Lake  Worth  Releasees  have  not  acted  as  Lessor's  agent  in  connection  with 
this  lease;  (b)  Lessor,  in  making  the  decision  to  enter  into  this  lease,  has  not  relied  upon  any  statements  or  representations,  if  any,  of  the  Lake  Worth 
Releasees  regarding  the  terms  of  this  lease;  and  (c)  Lessor's  decision  to  enter  into  this  lease  is  the  independent  and  voluntary  decision  of  Lessor  after 
being  given  the  opportunity  to  have  said  lease  reviewed  by  counsel  of  Lessor's  choosing. 

24.  As  stated  above,  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto. 
Accordingly,  and  notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  the  acreage  of  said  land  covered  by  this  lease  shall  be  calculated  to  the  center  of  any 
adjacent  streets,  highways  or  alleyways  for  purposes  of  calculating  and  paying  any  bonus  or  royalty  if  it  is  determined  that  lessor  owns  such  additional 
acreage. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are 
market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor 
understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor 
recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or 
assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market 
conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may 
negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the 
signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all 
parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 

Robert  Franklin  Riley  v\  Allsortfiefh  Riley  /T 


Ft-  UA-j-f*  TV  *^6to 

7/7  iiX 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the,  j  day  of< 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instalment  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


2008     ,  by  Robert  Franklin  Riley. 


ic,  State  of       ^  M  f 


Notary  PtJblic, 
Notary's  name  (printed) 
Notary's  commission  expires: . 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


_day  of 


_,  2008  ,  by  Alison  Beth  Riley. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed):  


Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  

 „_  a  corporation,  on  behaif  of  said  corporation. 


20 


by_ 


of 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
County  of  


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the  

Book  page  ,  of  the . 

By  


Clerk  (or  Deputy) 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 


day  of. 


20 


at 


records  of  this  office. 


o'clock 


_M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


CREWLAND  RESEARCH 

6777  CAMP  BOWIE  BLVD,  #610 


FT  WORTH 


TX  76116 


Submitter:  JOHN  BOLTON 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration  J      10/30/2008  10:55  AM 
Instrument  #:\  D208410433 


llllllllll  III  l  ll  llll  II  II 


D208410433 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


5PGS 


$28.00 


Printed  by:  DS 


