Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Nov  04  02:26  PM  a  * 

D208415537 

Fee:  $  24.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  3  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP. 
ATTN:  RECORDING  TEAM 
P.O.  Box  18496 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 

Submitter:  Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLEFtK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFGRD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PARTWWE0S=miAL  RECORD. 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPLIFILE 


By: 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  T^E  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF "C$L$1  fe&R-' 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDiR  FEDERAL  LAfe 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid-Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID-UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 


CHESAPEAKBiXPLORATION,  L.£,  C,  an  Oklahoma  limited  liability  company,  P.O.  Box  184%,  Oklahoma  City,  Oklahoma  73154-0496,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  *is  lease  were 
prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all 
other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  Wank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  the  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called 
teased  premises: 


acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  ut  of  the  to  the  city  of  Grand  Prairie, 

Te?^/nbe!^  m^ct/B^^fetjtoiSed  hy  metes  aiJ,dmbouPdA  ,m  t&at  certainft/t^W(4V^WtoThfe^il>L,  recorded 
in  {MML  ^^fm^W.  ,  of  the  flfflffff  M,C  fottte       of  WJr  C^^l^fy 

in  the  County  of  Itf/flrtT       .  State  of  TEXAS,  con  (ami  re  'I^J^ 


f&fffclj  ,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (inchiding  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion, 

prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in 
association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In 
addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to 
the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be 
deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  torn  of  five  (5)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other 
substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions 
hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's 
separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  percent  (20)%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transporta- 
tion facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then 
prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity:  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other 
substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  percent  (20)%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  sever- 
ance, or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the 
nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its 
purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas 
or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being 
sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or 
wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  mis  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor 
or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or 
wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another 
well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Les- 
see's failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  Lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository 
agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to 
Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  If 
the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper 
recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6 
or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  mis  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for 
reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion 
of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in 
force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any 
one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered 
hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities 
hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a) 
develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from 
uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as 
to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  (he  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudendy  develop  or 
operate  die  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a 
horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  phis  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  1 0%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  phis  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or 
permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable 
law  or  the  appropriate  govern  mental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  weir  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator 
facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  me 
vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production, 
drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  die  leased 
premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  mat  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the 
unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling 
rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage 
determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable 
hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing 
of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  man  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  m  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations 
of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly 
authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual 
form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's 
estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to 
their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of 
all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of 
Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  foil  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in 
royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered 
by  mis  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided 
interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  lender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained 
hereunder. 


enhanced  reoSery.  u2e  SltTi^  T  ^jST  "T1**8  m  *e  M  01  Iands  PMlcd  01  ™— -  n«with,  in  primary  and/or 

including but notlinited  to 7«pS o^ti^riTSw^    5   8 J?  *  °°ndUCt ^  operatioas 00     leased P""1™ M ta rca3Wlflbly for  »ch  purposes, 

and  telephcae  Ibws,  pow*  S.^Sf,       ^  "£  ^  CODStru?on  Md  ^  of  roads>  water  wells,  di^  wells.  i^eS  wells.  pitjXtrk 

oost,  any  oil,  ga^Td/ToX  ^L^Lr*^^7  *         *  P"*«*        treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  u*  m  such  operations,  free  of 

oartial  taming  J^..  _^^?^ J***  ^anted  .heran  511811  Wly  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other 


When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing  L^T^n  W  £  IT    t?T    T       ,f      Wmnty  toeraotsadl  W  m  &*  °f  *e         premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith. 

meleasSpSofXl^ 

the  leased  prSK  Z  ^0^1^  1^  ™  ^0U'UasOT  a  «"»»*. md  L«*«       pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildup  and  oth Jimproveramts  now  on 

wel]SSml^™w^ to^^mtezrieo^wpsbixvm.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including 
™  wwmg,  irom  me  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  mis  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter 

junction  inXfoS  "  811311  be  *>  ->  Wlicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 

i„JrJr? J°_?/?to*0?"  °?.the  d^hnS  304  P«4-~.  of  wells,  and  me  price  of  oiL  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  herebv.  When  driffiuL  reworking  induction  or  otW 


^    Durebie?^  SifTfl^T  Sab0tage' refadllon'  m^rrectioQ,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or 

ddaTS?™.,  ^ f  r"Trt  *"*  ProdttCtlOT.  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or 

!ES  *™£  \?  °  Pen°t0f  Mch  prwait1011  OT  dday  311811  *•  «*W  to      1™  h**°f-  L««e  -~  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  mis  lease 

wuen  ctnlitng,  produc&oc  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

cover!™  It  !Zf  5- i^1' dOTiDg  *™  rf  **•  JoMC>  rcoc,ves  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease 

w^f~  Z  21  r  SDbsfances  .C0™Bd  by  tbjs  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  mis  lease,  Lessor 
£«m!^™^  "  rrtmgJaf      offer  *?™*»**y,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of 

me  oner  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the,  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the 
otter  at  the  pnee  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer, 

a         N£  ^l^5,  ™tiated  ^  Lessor      '"V™*  to      breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully 

aescnDuig  the  breach  or  default  and  men  only  if  Lessee  Ms  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  mere  is  a  final  judicial  determination 
mat  a  oreacn  or  default  has  occurred,  mis  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  pert  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  me 
breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

1i'*'<iF  88,1,6  <ronsidcrati°n  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore  easement  under  and 
torouga  me  leased  premises  for  me  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which 
are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  merewim  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  omer  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run 
with  tne  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

15.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  hens 
existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  me  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to 
its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder,  m  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's 
hue.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  mat  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  mis  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surfaoe  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  omer  operations. 

17.  This  lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  ofwm'ch  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  mat  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on 
multiple  factors  and  mat  mis  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and  mat  Lessor  entered  into  mis  lease  without 
duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  mat  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  mat  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in 
the  negotiation  of  mis  lease  mat  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this 
transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate  with  any  omer  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 


IN  WITNESS, 
executors,  ad 


iF,  mis  lease  is  executed  to  be 
strators,  successors  and  assigns,  whethi 


ONE  OR  MORE) 


above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees, 
by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


STATE  OF  T 
COUNTY  OF  _ 
This  instru 


i  r  YJk*i..  <^a  :  n  a  0  ^ 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


BECKY  MICHEUE  CASH 
Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
May  09. 201 2  


try  Pubic,  State  of  Texas 
iry'swirne  (printed) 


Notary's  feafine  (printed) 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the . 


_day  of. 


,20_ 


by 


Record  &  Return  to: 
Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 
P.O.  Box  18496 
 Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 

Notary  Public,  State  of  tVSsijiiu1Uv1      J ' 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF  

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of   ■  20  ,  by_  of 

 a  corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 

Cou  nty  of  . 


This  instrument  was  filed  for  record  on  the  day  of  •  20  ,  at  o'clock 

 M.,  and  duly  recorded  in 


Book  ,  Page  ,  of  the  records  of  this  office. 

By  


Clerk  (or  Deputy) 


