eggezrsocd 


OF . m R : nde: 3ON W County Texas OR STRI ALL 
OF THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:BEPORE IT Is PILED We BL RECON 


RITY OR VOD nan rerun. aa Fee: 
seu NUMBER Mien lhozey) HNUMBER, nitier SIMPLIFILE 2 Pages 


XTO REV PROD 88 (7-69) PAID UP (041710718 


ene OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE 


THIS AGREEMENT made this 6" day of August, 2008, between Mark R. Jones and Janet L. Jones, husband and wife, Lessor (whether one 
or more), whose address is: 5836 Concord Street, Watauga, Texas 76148, and XTO Energy Inc., whose address is: 810 Houston St, Fort 
Worth, Texas 76102, Lessee, WITNESSETH: 


1. Lessor, in Consideration of ten dollars and other Valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and of the covenants 
agreements of Lessee hereinafter contained, does hereby grant, lease and let unto lasses the land covered hereby for the purposes and with the 
exclusive ght of exploring, drilling, mining and Operating for, producing 80d owning i. gas, Sulphur and all ether rniherals (whether or not similar to 
) 5 . nd, lay pipe lines, establish and utilize faci ities for surface or subsurface 
disposal of salt water, construct Toads and bridges, dig canals, build tanks, power Stations. telephone lines, employee houses and other structures 
Taulons in exploring, dailing for, producin ) treating, storing and trans orting minerals prod 
from the land covered hereb or any other land adjacent thereto. The land omen hereby, Herein ile "Suid land," iS focal ied in the county at 


0.152 acres, more or less, out of the E. Williams Survey, Abstract No.A-467, and being Lot 34, Block 12, Bunker Hil Section Seven, an Addition to 
the City of Watauga, Tarrant County, Texas, acco ‘ ng to the Plat recorded in Vole 388-1 Parva Deed Recon Tarrant County, Texas, 
bed in a Special Warranty Deed With Vendor's Lien, dated May 5, 1992, from Jack Kem 
» D. C., to AMrk R. Jones and Janet L. Jones, husband and wife, recorded thereof in 
Volume 10639, Page 1358, Deed Reco s, Tarrant County, Texas, and amendments thereof, including streets, easements and alleyways adjacent 
thereof, aud any iparian rights, 


This lease also covers and includes, in addition to that above described, all land, if any, contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining the land above 
described and (a) owned or Claimed by Lessor by limitation, prescription, ession, reversion, affer-acquired title or unrecorded instrument or (b) 
as to which Lessor has a preference fight of acquisition. Lessor agrees io execute any Supplemental instrument requested by Lessee for a more 
pomplete or gocurate descrption of said land. For the purpose of determining the amount any ie 
be deemed to contain 0,1 . 
the true acreage . Lessor accepts the bonus as lump sum consideration for this lease and all rights and options hereunder. 


2. Unless sooner terminated or longer kept in force under other Provisions hereof, this lease shall remain in force fora term of _ 3 years 
from the date hereof, hereinafter called pimary term,” and as long thereafter as. Operations, as hereinafter defined, are conducted upon said land 
with no cessation for more than ninety (90) consecutive days, 


3. As royalty, Lessee 

equal 25% pan of all oil produced and saved byl from said land, or from time to time, at the option of Lessee, to pay Lessor the average 
posted mai pace of such _25% part of such oil at the wells as of the day it is run to the pipe line or storage tanks, Lessor’s interest, in either 
5% _ of the cos! ting oil to render it marketable pipe line oil; (b) To pay Lessor on gas and casinghead gas produced from 
y Le mouth of the well, or (2) when us: by Lessee off 
; or other products, the market value, at the mouth of the well, of 25% dfs gas and casinghead gas: 

(2 To pay Lessor on alll other minerals mined and marketed or utilized by Lessee from said land, one-t v 
assee's , xcept that on Sulphur mined and marketed the royalty shall be one dolar ($1.00) per long ton. If, at the expiration of the 
pamery term or at any time or times thereafter, there is an well on said land or on lands with which Said land or any portion thereof has been 

pooled capable of producing oil or gas, and all such wells are shut-in, this lease shall, nevertheless, continue in 


red, Covenants and agrees to use reasonable diligence to luce, utilize, or market the minerals capable of being produced from 
said wells, but in the exercise of si diligence, shall not be obligated to install or furnish cilities other than welll facilities ai ordinary lease 
facilities of flow lines, separator, and lease tank, and shall not required to settle lal uble or to market gas upon terms unacceptabie to 


check or draft of Lessee, as royalty, a sum equal to one dollar ($1.00) for each acre of land then covered hereby. Lessee shall make like payments 
or tendet Kier. af oF before the end ered aonwersary. ¢ the Saree HOn Said ninety day Period if Yeon poll anniversary y this ease is t being 
continued in force solely by reason rovisions of this paragraph. sl ment oF tender shail be made to the parties who ai ime 

hs ited the ies whi we ‘his lease if the wells were producing, ard may be deposited in 


in lieu of a er method of payment herein rovided, pay or tender such shut-in ror , in the manner above specified, either jointly to su 
ties or a lely to each in accordance wit their ect ownerships thereof, eee may elect. Any payment hereunder may be made 
check or of Lessee deposited in the mail or delivered to the pany entitled to receive pay! ortoa depository bank provided for above on 
or before the last date for payment. Nothing herein shall impair essee's night to release as provided in Paragraph 5 hereof. in the event of 
assignment of this lease in whole or in part, liability for payment hereunder shall fest exclusively on the then owner or owners of this lease, severally 
as to acreage owned by each. 


4. Lessee is hereby granted the right, at its 0, ion, to pool or unitize any land covered this lease with any other land covered by this lease, 
and/or with any other eect lease, or leases, as ‘oor oF all minerals or horizons, $0 as to ese Units containing not more than 80 su acres, 
plus 10% acreage tolerance: Provided, however, uni may be established as to any, one or more horizons, or existing units may be enlarged as to 
any one or more horizons, so as to contain Not more than ) 1 
{v gas, pher than casinghead ges, (2) liquid hydrocarbons. (condensate) which are not liqui 

y 


already drilled, any such unit may be established or 
al is@ said opt Yo each desired unit 


ions id land under this ! nit 
to cath coperans conguciod the unit if this loage covers separate tracts within the unit) that proportion of the total production of unitized 
i Surface acres in such land {or in ehcp gpeh 

allocate 


shut-in rova 
Which includes land not covered by this lease 
imitation, in royalty which may become payable under this lease; n parties own ; 
Dario Oe ee OVaNY is loeee. Neither shal it impair the right of Lessee to release as provided in paragraph 5 hereof, 


Le pooled leases 
are released as to lands within the unit. At any time while this lease is in force Lessee may dissolve any unit established hereunder by filing for 
record in the public office where this lease is recorded @ declaration to that effect, ifat that time there is no unitized minerals being produced from 
such unit. Any unit formed may be amended, re-formed, reduced or enlarged by Lessee at its election at any time and from time to time after the 

igi i it : public office in which the pooled acreage is located. Subject to the 
rovisions of this paragraph 4, a unit once established hereunder shall remain in force so long as any lease subject thereto shall remain in force. if 
fis lease now or hereater Covers separate tracts, no pooling or unitization of royally interests as between any such Separate tracts is intended 
Or shall be implied or result merely from the inclusion of such Separate tracts within this lease but Lessee shall nevertheless have the right to 
Pool or unitize as provided in this Paragraph 4 with consequent allocation of production as herein provided, As used in this paragraph 4, the 


words “separate tract" mean any tract with royalty ownership differing, now or hereafter, ether as to parties or amounts, from that as to any other 
part of the leased premises. 

5. Lessee at ary ranasTom time to time execute and deliver fo Lessor or fe for record a release or releases of this lease as to 
part ofall of said lad or Of any mmveral Or Konto eee and thereby be releved of all obligations, as to the released acreage or mteeet. 


&. Whenever used in this lease the word “operations” shall mean operations for andior a Of the following: preparing the drillsite location 
and/or access road, drilling, testi , completing, reworki , Fecompleting, deepening , sidebar , Plugging back or repairing of a well in search 
ape, een oh goacton ooh Gas Sapna far mie, Sears Raa enna eo eben faa oath 
whether or not in paying quantities, 

7. Lessee shall have the use, free from of water, other than from Lessor's water wells, and of oll and produced from said land in all 

i r ¥. Lessee shall have the Rack me to remove all machinery and fixturee placed on said land, Inciuding fas cia ae 
and remove casing. No well shall be drilled nearer than feet fo the house or bam now on said land without the consent of the Leseor Locee 
shall pay for damages caused by its operations to growing crops and fmmber orto tore 


8. The rights and estate of Sorry be assioned from time fo time in whole or in part and as to mineral or horizon. Ail of the 
Covenants, obligati and considerations of his ee extend to and be binding upon the pares henate: ae ree Honea: assigns . 
. No il thereot, ed, 

measureme 


and OF division in the ownershi ¢f Said land, royalties, or other moneys, or , howsoever 

Shall increase the ob! $ or diminish the rights of Lessee, induding, but ney ited to, the location and arity of nolo cre 

Cf production. N wits Fe tad ae on noe ete oF ates thereat of oF to Lessee, i ROM e Oe ee 

ownersh fo} " moneys, of , 

be bindi u the then record owner ofthis laase aren a are ey Derg en kaha io uct record owno: aie orp 
place of es of He intents wich pete Sees OF BSE, notoe of such chan or division, py si originals or uly 
certified copies instruments have been record which evidence or " coul 
Tecords a P as shall be in the opinion of such owner to establish the validity of 


such 

nd proceedings, transcripts, or other the 

Such change o division. ifany such change in ownership occurs reason of the death of the owner, Lessee may, 

Sich yates, oF other manoj, or pat Meret fs eat ot he dase oath cet Loo ay. 
9. In the event Lessor considers that Lessee has not complied with all its obligations fons hereunder, both and implied, Lessor shail notify 

of ead naka vihin wee poatany whl eepadts Lesbos hes beached ean os akoseat ge ena The sore GOLaavS ater receipt 
notice which meet commence to meet or breaches alleged Lessor. Service notice shall 

Precedent to the bri sos ere aut eos ae lb  urlepe toes Oe 


a breaches admission or presumption that Lessee 

fanceled for Cause, shal nevertheless remain ioros a floc! aso (fy sulfciert around each 
constitute a maxémum allowable unit under icable governmarta ulations, 

to be designated by Lessee ag nearly as i in the form of a centered at the well, or in such shape casting Spacing ru 
juire; and of said land included inc eoea on which there. Operations. Lessee shall also have such said land 
aso haces cpwalon on he so rete and note roa © o any ; al " 


rants and agrees to defend tile to said land inst the claims of all persons whomsoever. Lessor’s rights and 
eee rea Pasay te bg ieee toe ge Sa 
sr ase unr aoa. Ws eae ts endo ofahon oo payrons ble or which may become 
money acer ited fee simple estate e eae covers bas Wes such Gl ce Si 7 raeest fenan en the royaieg and ote 
er aa Manet epaceae anneal ec ert Sei cach party wi execuise f aiiena 
regard to whether it is executed by all those named as Lessor. 


11. If, while this lease is in force, at, or expiration 
. of paragraph 3 hereof, and Lessee is not 


feasonable contro! of Lessee, the primary term hereof shall be extended until the first anniversa date hereof ing ni or more 
devs folowing the removal of such delaying cause, and this lease may be exlended trerceahor my og oreo oo Pad not aoa 


12, an ont Vier woh oS as 2 2 af Lessors gts n and to any existing wee) andor welborels) on eid 
land, other than ing water wells, and for all of this lease the Lessee of ing well and/or shall be 
et sti ofa ad er purposes. re-entry use by any existing wellbore 


. 13. Notwithstanding ing to the contrary contained in this lease, at the option of Lessee, which may be exercised by Lessee 
giving notice to Lessor, a well which has been drilled and Lessee intends to frac shall be deemed a well capable of Producing in paying 
quantities and the date such well is shut-in shall be when the drilling operations are completed. 


14. As a result of land development in the yicinity of said land, governmental rules or ordinances regarding well sites, and/or surface 
restrictions as may be set forth in this lease and/or other teases in the vicinity, sui locations for well sites in th mi 
and Lessee may encounter difficulty securing surface location(s) for drilling, reworking or other operations. Therefore, since drilling, 
reworking or other operations are e! er restricted of not allowed on said land or other leases in the vicinity, it is agreed that a 
Operations conducted at a surface location off of said land or off of lands with which said land are pooled in accordance with this lease, 
Provided that such operations are associated with a directional well for the purpose of drilling, reworking, roducing or other operations 
under said land or lands pooled therewith, shall for purposes of this lease be deemed operations ducted on said tand. Nothing 
Contained in this Beragraph is intended to modify any surface restrictions or pooling provisions or restrictions contained in this lease, 
except as expressly stated. 


AS. The consideration paid for this lease shall atso Constitute consideration for an option to the Lessee, its successors and assigns, 


to extend the initial three (3) year primary term for a second two (2) year term. This option may be exercised anytime during the initial 
i b i G Dye A ofan additional bonus of { ) .00 per net mineral aor, The bonus paneer shall Gonstilute 


i 
z 
J 
i 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed on the date first above written. 
LESSORS: Mark R. Jones and Janet L. Jones 


net Lj Jones 


STATE OF Texas } 
} ss. (ACKNOWLEDGMENT FOR INDIVIDUAL) 


COUNTY OF Tarrant} 


This instrument was acknowledged before me on the U2 day of August, 2008 by Mark R. Jones and Janet L. Jones, husband and 
wife. 


BEAU TELLER HOEFLEIN 
Notary Public, State of Texas 


September 14, 2011 


Seal: 


