Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Nov  13  03:00  PM  * 

Fees  32  oo  D208426978 
no^Tct  of  comum^^^^^.  are  a  AWWI^  yoi*  ^taMOVE  or 

STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWDSG  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  Mifi&SfflS  ^OUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S 
LICENSE  NUMBER 

NO  SURFACE  USE 
PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  (tiris  "Lease")  is  made  as  of  the  S**  day  of  November  .  200&.  between  the  James  R. 
Burke,  whose  address  is  8136  Sundance  Drive  Mansfield,  Texas  76063  and  James  D.  Mills,  whose  address  is  8160 
Sundance  Drive  Mansfield,  Texas  76063  and  Larry  W.  Rother,  whose  address  is  3601  Misty  Creek  Drive  Austin,  Texas 
78735,  as  Lessor  (s),  andXTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is  810  Houston  Street,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  as  Lessee. 

1.  Leased  Premises,  hi  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  paid  upon  execution  of  tins  Lease,  and  the  covenants  herein 
contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  land  described  on  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto 
(the  "leased  premises")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by 
reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas. 
For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent 
elements  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well 
as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals.  The  leased 
premises  shall  include  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  mstruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or 
accurate  description  of  the  leased  premises*  In  the  event  Lessor  owns  any  additional  acreage  than  that  for  which  bonus 
was  originally  paid,  Lessee  shall  pay  additional  bonus  at  the  rate  per  acre  on  which  bonus  was  originally  paid  when  this 
Lease  was  acquired  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross 
acres  specified  on  Exhibit  "A"  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 


2.  Team  This  Lease  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals.  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  three  (  3  >  years  from  the  date  hereof  (the  "primary  temTX  ^  for  as  long  thereafter 
as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands 
pooled  therewith,  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 


3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to 
Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be 
twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's 
credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  mere  is  no  such  price  men  prevailing  in  the 
same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity; 
and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five 
percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate 
part  of  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  and  less  the  permitted  unaffiliated  third  party  deductions  authorized 
below;  provided  mat  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market 
price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  men  prevailing  in  the  same  field, 
then  in  the  nearest  field  in  winch  mere  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into 
on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder.  If  at  the  end  of 
the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of 
producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in 
paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed 
capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  fifty  dollars  ($50.00)  per  acre 
then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the 
end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee; 
provided,  however,  mat  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee 
from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  teased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end 
of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary 
herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  mat  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right 
to  continue  tins  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  a  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive 
years. 

Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing 
plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  higher 
of  the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oiL  gas  and  other  substances 
produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based  upon  the 
higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products.  Notwithstanding 
anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  except  for  nonaffiliated  third-party  charges  incurred  or  paid  by  Lessee  to  transport,  gather, 
compress,  stabilize,  process  or  treat  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises,  or  lands  pooled  therewith  (including  fuel 
chargesX  m  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production  costs, 
including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  urosportation,  manufacture, 
processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or  equipment 
for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor 
receive  a  price  greater  than  or  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffiliates. 


As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than 
ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee, 
more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  saine  person  or  group  of  person 

4.  Payments.  All  shut-in  or  other  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  at  the 
above  address,  or  at  such  address  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  such  depository  institution  as  Lessor  may  provide  written  notice 
of  from  time  to  time.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  by  check  or  by  draft. 

5.  Continuous  Drilling  Obligations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (a 
"dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities) 
permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  6  or  the 
action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall 
nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional 
well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  teased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  one 
hundred  twenty  ( 120)  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  one  hundred  and  twenty  ( 120)  days 
after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not 
otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such 
operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in 
the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  (a)  to  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to 
protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled 
therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided 
herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or 
interests  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered 
by  this  lease,  either  Define  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do 
so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  leased  premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
included  in  any  unit  created  pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil 
well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  eighty  (80)  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%),  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  six  hundred  forty  (640)  acres  plus  a 
maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  ten  percent  ( 1 0%);  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  mat  may  be  prescribed  or  pennhted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well" 
shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  weir  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  weir 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  tease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment; 
and  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  within  ninety  (90)  days  of 
first  production,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
pooling  which  may  be  retroactive  to  first  production.  In  the  event  Lessor's  acreage  is  included  in  a  well,  all  of  Lessor's 
acreage  shall  be  included  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the 
production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net 
acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit  Pooling  in  one  or  more 
instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement 
of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental 
authority,  hi  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and 
stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  If  the  leased  premises  are  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such 
revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted 
accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof;  Lessee 
may  terniinate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination. 
Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate 
tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or 
result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  tins  Lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to 
pool  as  provided  above  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words 
"separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from 
that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

7.  Partial  Interests.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  rmneral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the 
royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith 
shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate 
in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


2 


act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests, 
invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to 
be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided 
above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above.  EXCEPT 
AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  AGREEMENTS  TO  DEFEND,  BUT  NOT 
INDEMNIFY,  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND 
WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING 
CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (EXCLUDING 
THE  GROSS  NEGLIGENCE  OR  WILLFUL  MISCONDUCT  OF  THE  INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER 
SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT,  CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 

14.  Notices.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be  directed  to  the  party  being  notified  at  the 
address  identified  above,  unless  notice  of  another  address  has  been  provided  in  writing.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by 
registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated 

15.  No  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral 
estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by 
statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor)  are  excluded.  By 
acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted 
sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

16.  Top  Leasing  Permitted  There  shall  be  no  prohibition  or  limitation  on  top  leasing. 

17.  Venue  and  T  ^g^l  P^g  Venue  for  any  dispute  arising  under  this  Lease  shall  lie  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  where 
all  obligations  under  this  Lease  are  performable. 

18.  Off-Site  DriBshe.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  the  lease  premises,  governmental  rules  or 
ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the 
vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing 
surface  locations)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are 
either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  the  lease  premises  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such  operations 
conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  the  lease  premises  or  off  of  lands  with  which  the  lease  premises  are  pooled  in 
accordance  with  this  lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling, 
reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  the  lease  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this 
lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  the  lease  premises.  Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify 
any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease,  except  as  expressly  stated 

1 9-Option  to  Extend.  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option,  to  be  exercised  prior  to  the  date  on  which  this  lease  or  any 
portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  provisions  of  extending  this  lease  for  a  period  of  Two 
(2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage  then  held  hereunder  which  would  expire  unless  so  extended  The  only 
action  required  by  Lessee  to  exercise  such  option  being  the  payment  to  Lessor  (or  for  Lessor's  credit  at  the  depository 
bank  named  herein)  and/or  such  parties  entitled  under  any  change  of  ownership  according  to  Lessee's  records,  an 
additional  consideration  of  the  sum  of  Fifteen  Thousand  Dollars  ($  1 5,000.00)  per  net  mineral  acre  owned  by  the  party 
entitied  to  such  payment  at  such  time  of  extension,  in  the  acreage  so  extended  If  this  lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a  portion 
of  the  acreage  then  covered  hereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by  a  recordable  instrument. 

20.  Miscellaneous.  This  Lease  is  entered  into  in  the  State  of  Texas  and  shall  be  construed,  interpreted  and  enforced 
in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Texas  without  reference  to  choice-of-law  rules.  Should  any  of  the  provisions 
herein  be  determined  to  be  invalid  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  it  is  agreed  that  this  shall  not  affect  the 
enforceability  of  any  other  provision  herein  and  that  the  parties  shall  attempt  in  good  faith  to  renegotiate  that  provision  so 
determined  to  be  invalid  to  effectuate  the  purpose  of  and  to  conform  to  the  law  regarding  such  provision.  The  section 
titles  appearing  in  this  Lease  are  for  convenience  only  and  shall  not  by  themselves  determine  the  construction  of  this 
Lease.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  one  or  more  counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original,  but  all  of 
which  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument  Singular  and  plural  terms,  as  well  as  terms  stated  in  the  masculine, 
feminine  or  neuter  gender,  shall  be  read  to  include  the  otherts)  as  the  context  requires  to  effectuate  the  full  purposes  of 
this  Lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon 
execution  shall  be  binding  on  each  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  adrmnistrators,  successors  and 
assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  liereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


LESSOR: 


LESSOR: 


4 


STATE  OFTEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


LESSOR: 


BY:L 


LESSEE  * 


XTO  ENERGY  INC 


By: 


Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr. 

Sr.  Vice  President — Land  Administration 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  Vo^   dayof  VJfrVa(Y\Wi  .  200&  byv^OiOPtS  {LfuiY&» 


S$!&k         TERRI  MCGRAIH 

Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
July01,2012 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledge  dayof  \N/(WtiY\W".  2008,  by^QuVj S  h  (Y\\\VS 


TERRI  MCGRATH 

Notary  Public.  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
July  01,2012 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  7^4|//^  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instniment  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  die  £~    day  of /fatten  *u<s    .  2008;  by  k).  fyv&f* 


FtoroneB  Duncan 
Notary  Puttie,  State  of  Tm 
My  ComwiHlon  t^im 
Novwnter  12,8011 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OFTEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  j  CP     day  of,  Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr., 

Sr.  Vice  President- Land  Administration  of  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 

Notary  Pubfic,  State  of  Texas 


the 


CHARLA  F.  WILKES 
NOTARY  PUBLIC  STATE  OF  TEXAS 
C0H1IUI0H  EXPIKES: 

03-0S-2012 


5 


EXHIBIT  "A" 

3.035 acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  A.  A.  Freeman  Survey,  A-522,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  Lois  8R  and 
10R,  Block  6,  South  Ridge  Lakes  Addition,  according  to  the  plat  recorded  at  Cabinet  A,  Slide  6251  of  the  Plat 
Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  more  particularly  described  in  that  certain  Mineral  Deed  dated 
October  1, 2008  from  ReaTTex  Venturas,  L.  P.,  to  James  R.  Burke,  James  D.  MIRs  and  Larry  W.  Rother  as  recorded 
at  Document  No.  D208381324,  Official  Pubic  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas, 


6 


