Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Nov  18  12:55  PM  jaa^aa 

D208430522 

Fee:  $  24.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  3  Pages 

NOTICE  OF  CONRDEhTTlAUTY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
IN  THE  PUBUC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  5  day  of  January,  2008,  between  Esther  D  Wlegand,  a  single  person.Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose 
address  is:  7404  Overtilll  Road,  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  76116,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St.,  Fort  Worth  Texas 
76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1 .  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  Tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  right  of  explonng,  dnlling,  mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to 
those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  fend,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface 
disposal  of  salt  water,  construct  roads  and  bndges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures 
on  said  land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring,  dnlling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  arid  transporting  minerals  produced 
KS^SnlP01verfdrh6reby  °I  anX  otne.[ land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby.Tierein  called  "said  land,"  Is  located  in  the  County  of 
TARRANT.  State  of  Texas,  and  is  descnbed  as  follows: 

0.3130  acres  of  land,  more  and  less,  and  being  more  particularly  described  as  Block  6,  Lot  19,  of  Linda  Vista  Estates  Addition, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  recorded  In  Volume  388-C,  Page  70,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and 
amendments  thereof,  Including  streets,  easements,  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

This  is  a  non-developmental  Oil  &  Gas  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any  operations,  as  defined  herein,  on 
the  surface  of  said  lands.  However,  Lessee  shal  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  said  lands,  or  part  thereof,  with  other  lands  to  comprise  an  oil 
and/or  gas  development  unit 

M  This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addWon  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  aftV-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b) 
as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more 
complete  or  accurate  demotion  of  sad/land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land  shal 
be  deemed  to  contain  0.3130  acres,  whether  actuaBy  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recrtai  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  .or  longer  kept.  In  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
3vears  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  Vimary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon 

said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

awAsroya^^Ljeflaae  covenants ;  and I  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  Hne  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
2g%  P?rt  of  a«  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 
Postefn^arjert  pnce  of  such  25%  .partof  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  Hne  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest,  in  eitiw 
^i^A^^^^l^^S^^^9  rerKlerrtrnarketabte  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from 
said  and  (1 )  when  sc4d  by  Lessee,  25%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  ofthe  weH,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off 
said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  wefl,  of  25%  of  such  gas  and  casinqhead 
gas;  (cj  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  orie-tenlh  eitiier  in  kindor  value  at  the  well  or 
mine  at  Lessees  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of 
the  pnmary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  landor  any  portion  thereof  has 

hAOTI  rWMAn    r'anahlA  fit  nmrliirinn  nil  nr  nao    anA  all  •■»■  i^U  ..mil,.  —ft...*         u.:_  l~~  „l  n   u__i  .-  _'_  *i_   e   ..  . 


snu"M  naai occurrea.  Lessee  covenants  ana  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  beinq 
produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence.  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities 
and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  qas  upon  terms 
unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  ofthe  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive 
days,  and  dunng  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period,  Lessee  shall  pay  or 
tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make 
kke  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is 
beingcontinued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at 
the  time  of  paymert  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producinq  and  mav  be 
deposited  in  such  bank  as  greeted  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the 
ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shuMn  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitiedto  receive 
s2me-  Lessee  may  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-In  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified, 
either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separatery  to  each  n  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect  Anv  payment 
hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depositorv 
bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paraqraph  5 
hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  orowners 
of  this  lease,  severely  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

Le£?ee  fe  l2?reby  granted  the  right  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease, 
and/orwrth  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres 
plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarqed  as  to 
°/}eJ0IrnT  horizons,  so  as  to  contan  npt  more  than  640  surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  ofthe  foUowing: 
(1 )  9as  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  Iquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced 
from  wetis  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the 

i  each  desired  unit 


effective  as  of  the  date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit 
shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instiument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  anv 
time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said 
tend,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective 
M^l!?S^*is un*  which  are  not  effectrvely 


SiHflS  !!2!2wl£^&  ^[de^ctingany  used  in  lease  orunitjaoerattons,  which  the  number  of surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such 
separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be 
<^»dered  for  all  purposes .incMngpayment  cf  deSvery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire 
production  of  unitized  rnineralsfrom  the  /and  to  which  allocated^  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease 
The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of 
S.^i^Kli^^  ^  2^e^5^!  rS^fc^  "mffation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  urtfnereunder 
wnfch includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without 
hmrtaton,  any  shtf-in  royarty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  tease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  tease  and 
pa™**  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  ths  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof 
except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  af  pooled  leases 
are  released  as  to  lands  wWhin  the  unit  At  any  time  whBe  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunderbv  filinq  for 
record  in  the  puHte  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  beinq  produced  from 
^^T^yj^  may  be  amended.,  re-fom»d,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the 
original  forming  thereof  by  flung  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Sublect  to  the 
provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force  If 


this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended 
or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to 
pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the 
words  separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  aslo  any  other 
part  of  the  leased  premises. 


5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations,,  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  dnlling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recomputing,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search 
tor  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  riqht  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  tease  shalfextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected 
shall  increase  the  obfigations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not/limited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  turnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 
place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recordowner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bnnging  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 )  sufficient  acreage  around  each  wel  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  driling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreaqe 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  riqhts  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  pnmarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
nghts  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any.  covered  by  mis  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

11.  If,  while  this  lease  Is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1 )  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  pnmary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  weU(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  olhertnan  existing  water  welte,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing!  in  Davina 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

.1 4.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restnctions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restncted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease 
provided  that  such  operations, are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothinq 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


BY: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


> 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  } 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  o 


2008  by 


My  commission  expires: 


ADDENDUM 


This  addendum  is  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated 

the  day  of  January,  2008  by  and  between     jr^-WiV  m<CiO»vAl  , 

as  Lessor  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  as  Lessee. 


In  the  event  that  any  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Addendum  conflict  with  any  of  the  terms 
and  provisions  of  the  printed  form  to  which  this  Addendum  is  attached,  then  the  terms  and 
provisions  of  this  Addendum  shall  control  and  take  precedence. 

It  is  hereby  understood  and  agreed  by  and  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  that  any  and  all  fees 
required  by  lienholders  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  a  subordination  are  the  responsibility  of 
Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns  and  all  monies  applicable  to  said  fees  will  be  paid  by  Lessee. 

Anything  in  the  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  it  is  agreed  that  the  royalty  paid  under  this 
lease  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%).  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  free  and  clear  of  all  costs  and 
expenses  whatsoever  including  expenses  of  separation,  compression,  marketing,  transportation, 
treating  or  manufacturing  oil  or  gas  produced  hereunder,  save  and  except  ad  valorem  and 
production  taxes.  Provided,  however,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  subject  proportionately  to  any 
charges  incurred  by  Lessee  for  compressing,  treating,  processing,  gathering,  transporting  and 
marketing  under  Lessee's  gas  purchase  contract  with  a  nonaffiliated  third  party  covering  the  sale 
of  production  from  the  lands  included  in  this  lease. 

Lessee  agrees  to  indemnify  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  any  and  all  liability,  damages, 
reasonable  attorney's  fees,  expenses,  causes  of  action,  suits,  claims  or  judgments  of  any  kind  or 
character  for  injury  to  persons  or  property  caused  directly  by  Lessee's  operations  on  the  subject 
land. 

Lessor  does  not  warrant  title  to  the  mineral  rights  under  the  Leased  premises.  In  the  event  all  or 
part  of  the  Lessor's  title  should  fail,  then  Lessor  shall  have  no  liability  for  such  failure  other  then 
refunding  that  portion  of  the  bonus  paid  for  this  Lease  attributable  to  the  interest  as  to  which  title 
has  failed. 

It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  Lessee  shall  earn  depths  as  to  each  proration  unit  or  pooled  unit 
only  to  100'  below  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation  on  such  proration  unit  or  pooled 
unit  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  unless  continuous  operations  are  being 
conducted  as  provided  for  above,  and  that  this  lease  will  terminate  at  such  time  as  to  all  depths 
below  such  depth. 

The  consideration  paid  for  this  lease  shall  also  constitute  consideration  for  an  option  to  the 
Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  to  extend  the  initial  three  (3)  year  primary  term  for  a  second 
two  (2)  year  term.  This  option  may  be  exercised  anytime  during  the  initial  primary  term  by 
delivery  of  payment  of  an  additional  bonus  of  $5000.00  per  net  mineral  acre.  The  bonus  payment 
shall  constitute  notice  to  Lessor  of  exercise  of  the  option.  In  the  event  Lessee  elects  to  exercise 
this  option  and  makes  the  bonus  payment  provided  for  above,  then  all  terms  of  this  lease  shall 
remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  if  the  original  primary  term  was  five  (5)  years. 


