Spisers0cd 


Electronically Recorded = Tarrant County Texas 


Official Public Records 2008 Nov 24 09:23 AM D208435745 
Fee: $ 24.00 


a Mien lhozey) Submitter: SIMPLIFILE 3 Pages 


Suzanne Henderson 


NOTICE OF CONFIDENTIALITY RIGHTS: A NATURAL PERSON MAY REMOVE O 
STRIKE ANY OR ALL OF THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION BEFORE ITIS FILED 


IN THE PUBLIC RECORDS: YOUR SOCIAL SECURI 
DRIVER'S LICENSE NUMBER. TY NUMBER OR YOUR 


XTO REV PROD 88 (7-69) PAID UP (0417078 


OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE 


THIS AGREEMENT made this _ 20 day of _October__, 2008, between Bennie G. Barton, Jr. and Frances G. Barton, h 

—o__ —Uctober__, , 6 wr. \- , husband and 
wife, Lessor (whether one or more), whose address is: 7513 Roya! Troon Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76179 and XTO Energy Inc., whose 
address is: 810 Houston St., Fort Worth, Texas 76102, Lessee, WITNESSETH: , 


1. Lessor, in consideration of ten dollars and other valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereb: acknowledged, and of th 
agreements of Lessee hereinafter contained, does hereby grant, lease and let unto Lessee the land covered hereby for the te yoses and win ane 
exclusive right of exploring, drilling, mining and operating for, producing and owning a gas, sul nur and all thet minerals (whether or not similar to 
nl ) S ald land, lay pipe lines, establish and utilize facilities for surf: 
disposal of salt water, construct roads and bridges, dig canals, build tanks, wer Stations, telephone lines, employee houses and other stresses 
on said land, necessary or useful in Lessee’s Operations in exploring, drilling for, reducing, treating, storing and transporting minerals produced 
erein called "said land," is located in the County of 


BEING 0,383 acres of land, more or less out of the Dempsey C. Pace Survey A-1245, Lot 11, Block 1, The Hi id: 

an Addition to the City of Fort Worth, Tarrant County, Texas, according to the plat thereof recorded in Ha A aditio yore tt 

Records, Tarrant County Texas, and being more particularly described in a Co orate Warranty Deed With Vendor's Lien, dated 

February 26, 2002, From n. AmeriCorp, ane, to Fe eonent Barton Jr. and Frances G. & arton, husban and wife and recorded in Volume 
Q g q » Texas, iy 

adjacent thereto, and amy ioe nights. xas, and amendme: ereof, including streets, easements and alleyways 


SEE ATTACHED ADDENDUM FOR ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 


This is a non-developmental Oil & Gas Lease, whereby Lessee, its successors or assigns, shall not conduct an 
Operations, as defined herein, on the surface of said lands. However, Lessee shall have the right to pool or unitize said lands, 
or part thereof, with other lands to comprise an oil and/or gas development unit. 


2. Unless sooner terminated or longer kept in force under other provisions hereof, this lease shall remain in force for a term of 
3 years from the date hereof, hereinafter called primary term,” and as long thereafter as operations, as hereinafter defined, are conducted 
Upon said land with no cessation for more than ninety (90) consecutive days. 


3. As royalty, Lessee covenants and agrees: @ To deliver to the credit of Lessor, in the pipe line to which Lessee may connect its wells, the equal 
114 part of all oil produced and saved b' D t é " 

jostled matkel price of such 4/4 part of such oil at the wells as of the day itis run to the pipe line or storage tanks, Lessor's interest, in either case 

0 bear _1/4_ of the cost of treating oil to render it marketable pipe line ol S p f 1 
‘1) when sold by Lessee, 1/4_ of the amount realized b Lessee, computed at the mouth of the well, or (2) when used by Lessee off said land or in 
manufacture of gasoline or other products, the market vaiue, at the mouth of the well, of 1/4 __ of such gas and casinghead gas; iG To pay 
Lessor on all other minerals mined and marketed or utilized by Lessee from said land, one-tenth either in kind or value at the well or mine at Lessee’s 
election, except that on sulphur mined and marketed the royalty shall be one dollar ($1.00) per long ton. If, at the expiration of the primary term or 
at any time or times thereafter, there is any well on said land or on lands with which said land or any portion thereof has been pooled, capable 
of producing oil or gas, and all such wells are shut-in, this lease shall, nevertheless, continue in force as though operations were sing 
conducted on said land for so long as said wells are shut-in, and thereafter this lease may be continued in force as If no shut-in had occurred. 
Lessee covenants and agrees to use reasonable diligence to produce, utilize, or market the minerals capable of being | produced from said wells, 
ed to install or fumish facilities other than well facilities and ordinary lease facilities of 


Lessee, as royalty, a sum equal to one dollar ($1.00) for each acre of land then covered ereby. § Ke like é 
before the end of each anniversary of the expiration of said ninety day period if upon such anniversary this lease is being continued in force solely 


any one or more horizons, so as to contain not more than 640 surface acres plus 10% acreage tolerance, if limited to one or more of the following: 
{) gas, other than casinghead 92, liquid hydrocarbons (condensate) which are not liquids in the subsurface reservoir, (3) minerals produced 

rom wells classified as gas wells by the conservation agency having jurisdiction. If larger units than any of those herein permitted, either at the 
time established, or after enlargement, are permitted or required under any. jovernmen| 


enlarged to conform to the size permitted or required by such governmental order or rule. Lessee shall exercise said option as 
b 


pal s € e! c £ 

i i] , including nt or delivery of royalty, overriding royalty and any other ents out of production, to be the entire 
production of ustoed nine fhe ond ie edn ie same manner ee thoug! prodused therefrom under the terms of this lease. 
@ owner of the reversionary estate of any term royalty or mineral estate agrees that the accrual of royalties pursuant to this paragraph or of 
shut.in royalties from a well on the unit shall satisfy any limitation of term fequiring production of oil or gas. The formation of any unit ereunder 
which jnckelos land not covered by this lease shall not have the effect of exchanaing or transferring any interest under this lease (including, without 
partes owning noreste Yoke eat covered by this lease. Neither shall it impair the right of Lessee to release as provided in paragraph 5 hereof, 
lands within a unit while there are operations thereon for unitized minerals unless al pooled leases 

are released as to lands within the unit. At any ; ; 7 it is ° er by fin for 
fecord in the public office where this lease is recorded a declaration to that effect, if at that time there is no unitized minerals being produced from 


such unit. Any unit formed may be amended, re-formed, reduced or enlarged by Lessee at its election at any time and from time to time after the 
original forming thereof by filing an appropriate instrument of record in the public office in which the pooled acreage is located. Subject to the 
rovisions of this paragraph 4, a unit once established hereunder shall remain in force so long as any lease subject thereto shall remain in force. If 
is lease now or hereafter covers Separate tracts, no pooling or unitization of royalty interests as between any such separate tracts is intended 
DOS oF Unitas ae pone merely ph 4 with location of productos efor 
Pool or unitize as provi in this paragray consequent a i production as in provided. As used in this paragraph the 
words "separate tract" mean any tract wath royalty ownership differing, now or hereafter, either as to artes or amounts, from thet: as Oar other 


5. Lessee may at any time and from time to time execute and deliver to Lessor or file for record a release or releases of this lease as to ai 
Part or all of said land or of any mineral or horizon thereunder, and thereby be relieved of all obligations, as to the released acreage or interest” 


6. Whenever used in this lease the word “operations” shall mean operations for and/or any of the following: ting the drillsite location 
and/or access road, drilling, testing, completing, reworking, tecompleting, deepening, sidetraciang. plugging ba orrepaingg of a well in search 
for or in an endeavor to obi progucion of oil; gas, sulphur or other minerals, excavating a mine, luction of oil, gas, sulphur or other mineral, 

ether or not in paying quantities. 


7. Lessee shall have the use, free from royalty, of water, other than from Lessor's water walls, and of oil and gas produced from said land in all 
Operations hereunder. Lessee shall have the right at any time to remove all machinery and fixtures placed on said land, including the right to draw 
and remove casing. No well shall be drilled nearer than 200 feet to the house or barn now on said land without the consent of the Lessor. Lessee 
shall pay for damages caused by its operations to growing crops and timber on said land. 


8. The rights and estate of a party hereto may be assigned from time to time in whole or in part and as to any minerat or horizon. All of the 
OBhosuons and coneide ior i extend to and be binding upon the parties hereto, thet heirs, successors, assigns, 
and successive assigns. No change or division in the ownership of said land, roye ities, or other moneys, or any part thereof, howsoever ofeded 
7 > ir limited to, the location and drilling of wells and the measurement 
production. Notwithstanding any other actual or constructive knowledge or notice thereof of or to Lessee, its successors or assigns, no 
change or division in the ownership of said land or of the royalties, or other moneys, or the right to receive the same, howsoever effected, shall 
be binding upon the then record owner of this lease until sixty (60) days after there has been furnished to such record owner at his or its principal 
place of business by Lessor or Lessor’s heirs, successors, or assigns, notice of such change or division, supported by either originals or uly 
Certified copies of the instruments which have been pi filed for record and which evidence such change or division, and of such court 
records and proceedings, transcripts, or other docum its as shall be necessary in the opinion of such record owner to establish the validity of 
such change or division. (f any such change in ownership occurs by reason of the death of the owner, Lessee may, nevertheless Pay or tender 
such royalties, or other moneys, or part thereof, to the credit of the decedent in a depasitory bank provided for above, 


9. In the event Lessor considers that Lessee has not complied with all its obligations hereunder, both express and implied, Lessor shall notify 
Lessee inv ing setting out specifically in what respects Lessee has breached this contract, Lessee shall thon fi i 
of said notice within which to meet or commence to meet all oF any part of the breaches alleged by Lessor. The service of said notice shall be 


service Lessee. ‘Neither the service of said notice nor the doin of any acts by Lessee aimed to meet all or any of the 
alleged breaches shall be deemed an admission or presumption that Lessee has failed to perform al its k 
canceled for any cause, it shall nevertheless remain in force and effect as to (1) sufficient acreage around each well as to which there are operations 
to constitute a driling or maximum allowable unit under ai licable governmen | regulations, (but in no event less that forty acres), such acreage 
to be designated by Lessee as nearly as practicable in the form of a square centered at the well, or in such shape as then existing spacing rules 
require; and (2) any part of said land included in a pooled unit on which there are operations. Lessee shall also have such easements on said land 
a8 are necessary to operations on the acreage so retained and shall not be required to move or remove any existing surface facilities necessary 


10. Lessor hereby warrants and agrees to defend title to said land against the claims of all persons whomsoever. Lessor's rights and 
interests hereunder shall be charged marily with any mortgages, taxes or other liens, or interest and other charges on said land, but Lessor 
agrees that Lessee shall have the right at any time to pay or 
rights of the holder thereof and to deduct amounts so paid from royalties or other ents payable or which ma: 


OF not royal 
Moneys accruing from any part as to which this lease covers less than such full interest, ha be paid only in the proportion which the interest 
rea OY tis teace, bears to the whole and undivided fee simple estate therein. All tbyalty interest covered by this lease {whether 
or not owned by Lessor) shall be paid out of the falty herein provided. This lease shail be binding upon each party who executes it without 
in as Lessor. 


11. If, while this lease is in force, at, or after the expiration of the primary term hereof, it is not being continued in force by reason of the shut-in 
well provisions of paragraph 3 hereof, and Lessee is not conducting operations on said land by reason of (1) any law, order, rule or regulation, 
whether or not subsequently determined to be invalid} or (2) any other cause, whether similar or dissimilar, (except financial) beyond the 
teasonable control of Lessee, the primary term hereof shall be extended until the first anniversary date hereof occurring ninety (90) or more 
days following the removal of such delaying cause, and this lease may be extended thereafter by operations as if such d jay had not occurred. 


12, Lessor agrees that this lease covers and includes any and all of Lessor’s rights in and to any existing well(s) and/or welibore(s) on said 
land, other than existing water wells, and for all purposes of this lease the re-entry and use by Lessee of any existing well and/or wellbore shail be 
deemed the same as the drilling of a new well. 


13. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this lease, at the option of Lessee, which may be exercised by Lessee 
giving notice to Lessor, a which has been drilled and Lessee intends to frac shall be deemed’a well capable of producing in paying 
quantities and the date such well is shut-in shall be when the drilling operations are completed. 


14. As a result of land development in the vicinity of said land, governmental rules or ordinances regarding well sites, and/or surface 
restrictions as may be set forth in this lease and/or other leases in the vicinity, surface locations for well sites in the vicinity may be limited 
and Lessee may encounter difficulty securing surface location(s) for drilling, reworking or other operations. Therefore, since drilling, 
reworking or other operations are either restricted or not allowed on said land or other leases in the vicinity, it is agreed that any suc 
Operations conducted at a surface location off of said land or off of lands with which said land are pooled in accordance with this lease, 
provided that such operations are associated with a directional well for the purpose of drilling, reworking, reducing or other operations 
under said land or lands pooled therewith, shall for purposes of this lease be deemed operations conducted on said land. Nothing 
contained in this paragraph is intended to modify any surface restrictions or pooling provisions or restrictions contained in this lease, 
except as expressly stated. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed on the date first above witten. 


LESSOPYS) 
Drintes by drd 


BY: Bennie G. Barton, Jr. BY: Frances G. Barton 


STATE OF Texas_ } 


}ss. (ACKNOWLEDGMENT FOR INDIVIDUAL) 


COUNTY OF __ Tarrant__ } 
This instrument was acknowledged before me on the 2 4] day of Ove 4 er- __, 2008 by Bennie G. Barton, Jr. and Frances G. 


Barton, husband and wife, 
Signature Lee ai Cmte 


CHADLER C, CAMPBELL 
Notary Public 


Notary Public, State of Texas 
Printed —_§ “Aatler ©. Guphe pt 


Commission Expires 
August 28, 2011 


My commission expires: 


ADDENDUM 


ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THAT CERTAIN OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE DATED Cersber- Pe) » 2008, 
BETWEEN AS BENNIE G. ARTON, JR. AND FRANCES G. BARTON, LESSOR, AND XTO ENERGY INC., AS LESSEE, COVERING 
0.383 ACRES OF LAND, MORE OR LESS, OUT OF THE Dempsey C. Pace SURVEY, Abstract Number 1245, IN TARRANT 
COUNTY, TEXAS. 


THE PROVISIONS OF ADDENDUM SUPERSEDE COMPLETELY ANY PROVISIONS TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THE 
LEASE TO WHICH THIS ADDENDUM [S$ ATTACHED. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


Minerals Covered. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this lease covers only oil and gas. The term “oil and 
gas” means oil, gas, and other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons and their constituent elements produced through a 
well bore. 


and the actual, reasonable costs (including compression and related fuel charges) paid to or deducted by an unaffiliated 
third party to transport, compress, stabilize, process or treat the oil, gas and other mineral production off the leased 
Premises in order to make the oil, gas and other mineral production saleable, increase its value or in order to get the oil, 
gas and other mineral production to a market. 


Shut-in Royalty. If at the end of the primary term or any time thereafter One or more wells on the leased premises or 
lands i 


been drilled but not fraced shall be deemed capable of producing in paying quantities. if for a Period of ninety (90) 
consecutive days such well or wells are shut-in or production therefrom is not being sold by Lessee, then Lessee shall 


off the leased premises, including, but not limited to, directional or horizontal drilling activity which comes under the 
surface of the leased premises. This drilling surface waiver does not apply to any surface rights associated with 


Vertical Pugh. Upon the expiration of the primary term of this Lease, upon the expiration of any extension or renewal of 
the primary term, or after cessation of Operations as provided herein, whichever occurs last, this Lease shall terminate 
as to all rights lying below one hundred feet (100’) below the stratigraphic equivalent of the deepest formation drilled, 


No Warranties. Lessor makes no warranty of any kind with respect to title to the Land, By acceptance of this Lease, 
Lessee acknowledges that it has been given every opportunity to investigate and has conducted sufficient investigation 


unable to obtain a subordination agreement, Lessee, at its option, may discharge any tax, mortgage, or other lien or 
interest and other charges on the Land superior to this Lease, and in the event Lessee does so, Lessee will have the 
option of applying the royalties accruing to Lessor toward payment of same and Lessee shall be subrogated to the 
rights of the holder thereof. 


Executed on the date first written above. 


