sloorrsoza 


Electronically Recorded Tarrant County Texas 
Official Public Records 2008 Dec 01 09:10 AM D208440015 


Fee: $ 24.00 


a Mien lhozey) Submitter: SIMPLIFILE 3 Pages 


IN THE PUBLIC RECORDS: YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR YOUR 
DRIVER'S LICENSE NUMBER. 


XTO REV PROD 88 (7-69) PAID UP (041707)8 


OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE 


THIS AGREEMENT made this 2x day of , 2008, between David W. Hobbs and Carolyn S. Hobbs, husband 
and wife, Lessor (whether one or more), whose address is: 7409 Eagle Ridge Circle, Fort Worth, Texas 76179 and XTO Energy Inc., whose 
address is: 810 Houston St, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, Lessee, WITNESSETH: 


1. Lessor, in consideration of ten dollars and other valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and of the covenants and 
agreements of Lessee hereinafter contained, does hereby grant, lease and let unto Lessee the land covered hereby for the p purposes and with the 
exclusive right of exploring, drilling mining and operating for, producing and owning oil, gas, sulphur and all other minerals (whether or not similar to 
those mentioned), fogether with the right to make surveys on said land, lay pipe lines, establish and utilize facilities for surface or subsurface 
disposal of salt water, construct toads and bridges, dig canals, build tanks, power Stations, telephone lines, employee houses and other structures 
on said land, necessary or useful in Lessee's Operations in exploring, drilling for, Producing, treating, storing an transporting minerals produced 
from the land covered Hereb .or any other land adjacent thereto, The land covere hereby, herein called "said land,” is located in the County of 
Tarrant, State of Texas, and is described as follows: 


Being 0.46 acres, more or less, out of the Dempsey C. Pace Survey, Abstract No. A-1245 and bein: Lot 46, Block 1, Eagle Ridge 
Addition, Phase fl, an Addition in Tarrant County, Texas, according to the Plat thereof as recorded in Cabinet A, Slide 3672, Plat 
Records, Tarrant Goun , Texas and being those same lands more Particularly described in a General Warranty | eed with Vendor's 
lien dated September 24, 2003 from Charles M. Chirillo and wife, Debbie H. Chirillo to David W. Hobbs and wife, Carolyn S. Hobbs, 
recorded thereof in Document Number D203366601, Deed Records, Tarrant County, Texas, and amendments thereof including 
streets, easements, and alleyways adjacent thereto, and any riparian rights. 


SEE ATTACHED ADDENDUM FOR ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 


This is a non-developmental Oil & Gas Lease, whereby Lessee, its successors or assigns, shail not conduct any 
Operations, as defined herein, on the surface of said lands. However, Lessee shall have the right to pool or unitize said lands, 
or part thereof, with other lands to comprise an oil and/or gas development unit. 


This lease also covers and includes, in addition to that above described, all land, if any, contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining the land above 
described and (a) owned or clained by Lessor by limitation, prescription, Possession, reversion, after-acquired title or unrecorded instrument or 
(b) as to which Lessor has a preference right of acquisition. Lessor agrees to execute any Supplemental instrument requested by Lessee for a 

pi ( lermining the amount any bonus or other payment hereunder, said land 
shall be deemed to contain 0.46 acr , whether actually containing more or less, and the above recital of acreage in any tract shall be deemed to 
be the true acreage thereof. Lessor accepts the bonus as lump sum consideration for this lease and alll rights and options hereunder. 


2. Unless sooner terminated or longer kept in force under other provisions hereof, this lease shall remain in force for a term of 
3 ears from the date hereof, hereinafter called pamary term," and as long thereafter as operations, as hereinafter defined, are conducted 
upon cad land with no cessation for more than ninety (90) consecutive days. 


3, As royalty, Lessee covenants and agrees: a) To deliver to the credit of Lessor, in the pipe line to which Lessee may connect its wells, the equal 
1/4 ay of all oil produced andesved ¢ Lessee from said land, or from time tome, at the option of Lessee, to pay Lessor the aversoe 


; (0) To pay Lessor on gas and sesinghead gas produced from said land 
used by 


1 , Computed essee off said land or in 
ie Manufacture of gasoline or other ucts, the market value, at the mouth of the well, of 1/ r 
Lessor on all other minerals mined and marketed or utilized by Lessee from said land, one-tentl aihér in kind or value at the well or mine at Lessee’ 
election, except that on sulphur mined and marketed the royalty shall be one collar ($1 -00) per long ton. If, at the expiration of the primary term or 
at any time or times thereafter, there is any well on said Jand or on lands with whi 


lessee covenants and agrees to use reasonable dligence to luce, utilize, or market the minerals capable of being | produced from gaid wells, 
inary lease ies 


there are no operations on said land, then at or before the expiration of said ninety da period, Lessee shall pay or tender, by or draft of 
Lessee, as royalty, a sum equal to one dollar ($1.00) for each acre of land then covered hereby. Lessee shail make like payments or tenders at or 
before endo each anniversary of the expiration of said ninety day period if upon such anniversary this lease is being continued in force solely 
by reason of the provisions of this paragraph. Each such Payment of tender shall be made to the parties who at the time of ment would be 


by Lessor, or its successors, which shall Continue as the depositories, regardless of changes in the ownership of shut-in royalty. If at any time 
athod of payryont Herat preva of ne mere pats syalty, in th b fied, either jointly to such part 

m of ‘in provided, pay or tender such shut-in royalty, inthe manner a ove specified, either jointly to such parties or sepa 

to each in cecordance with hex respective ownerships thereot, si An hereu 


date for payment. Nothing herein shall impair Lessee's ri ht to release as provided in paragraph 5 hereof. inthe event of assignment of this lease in 
whole or in part, liability e payment hereunder shall rest exclusively on the then owner or owners of this lease, severally as to acreage owned by 
. 


4. Lessee is hereby granted the right, at its option, to pool oF unitize any land covered by this lease with any other land covered by this lease, 

and/or with any other land, lease, or leasés, as to any or al minerals or horizons, so as to establish units containing not more than 80 surface acres, 

plus 10% acreage tolerance: provided, however, uni fs 5 may be established as fo any one or more horizons, or existing units may be enlarged as to 
in US ‘0 


40 surface acres p| lowing: 
{1) gas, other than casin c which 
wells classified as gas le Conservation agency having jurisdiction. Wlarge 
time established, or after enlargement, are permitted or required under any. govern tule or order, y v 
lar location, or for obtaining maximum allowable from any well to be drilled, drilling, or already drilled, any such unit may be established or 
s 


fective as of the date provided for in said instrument or instruments but if said instrument or instruments make no such provision, then such unit 
il become effective on the date such instrument or instruments are so filed of record, Each of said options may be exercised by Lessee at any 
time and from time to time while this lease is in force, and whether before or after operations or production has been 


for al 
led or unitized. operations conducted on ai rt of such unitized land shall be considered, for all purposes, except the payment of 
Foyalty Operations cay, Ope upon said land under this lease. There shall be allocated to the land covered by this lease within pach such uni (or 
fA the unit if this lease covers separate tracts within the unit) that proportion of the total production of unitized 
minerals from the unit, after deducting any used in lease or unit tions, which the number of surface acres in such land {or in each such 
local eG 
considered for all ses, including payment or delivery of royalty, overriding royalty and any other payments out of production, to be the entire 
mihe tor ed nite same manner as though bet tr ‘ € 
1 Owner of the reversionary estate of any tern ri or mineral estate agrees that the accrual of royalties pursuant to this paragraph or of 
shutin royalties from a well on the unit shall satisfy any limitation of term requiring production of oil or gas. The formation of any unit hereunder 

i ing 


limitation, any shutin royalty which may become payable under this lease) , c 
Parties owning interests in land not covered by this lease. Neither shall it impair the righ as ‘ 

except that Lessee may not so release as to lands within a unit while there are operations thereon for unitized minerals unless a pooled leases 
are released as to lands within the unit. At any time while this lease is in force Lessee may dissolve any unit established hereunder by filing for 
record in the public office where this lease is recorded a declaration to that effect, if at that time there is no unitized minerals being produced from 


such unit. Any unit formed may be amended, re-formed, reduced or enlarged by Lessee at its election at any time and from time to time after the 

original forming thereof by filitg an appropriate instrument of record in the public office in which the pooled acreage is located. Subject to the 
rovisions of this paragraph 4, a unit once established hereunder shall remain in force so long as any lease subject thereto shail remain in force. If 
is lease now or herogtter covers Separate tracts, no pooling or unitization of royalty interests as behween any such Separate tracts is intended 

or shall be implied or result merely from the inclusion of su Separate tracts within this lease but Lessee shall nev: 

pool or unitize as provided in this paragraph 4 with consequent allocation of production as herein provided. As used in this paragraph , the 

word is fora arate tract” mean any tract with royalty ownership differing, now or hereafter, either as to Parties or amounts, from that as to any other 

pai premises, 


heless have the right to 


5. Lessee may at any time and from time to time execute and deliver to Lessor or file for record a release or releases of this lease as to any 
Part or alll of said land or of any mineral or horizon thereunder, and thereby be relieved of ail obligations, as to the released acreage or interest. 


6. Whenever used in this lease the word “operations” shall mean operations for and/or any of the following: preparing the drillsite location 
and/or access road, drilling, testing, completing, reworking, recompleting, deepening, sidetracking, plugging back or repairing of a well in search 
for or in an endeavor tool in producton of olf, gas, sulphur or other minerals, excavating a mine, production of oil, gas, sulphur or other mineral, 
whether or not in paying quantities. 


8. The rights and estate of a party hereto may be assigned from time to time in whole or in part and as to any mineral or horizon. All of the 
covenants, obligations, and consi erations of this lease shall extend to and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, Successors, assigns, 
and successive assigns. No change or division in the ownership of said land, allies, or other moneys, or any part thereof, howsoever eff led, 
shall increase the ol Higations or diminish the rights of Lessee, including, but not limited to, the location and drilling of wells and the measurement 
of production. Notwithstanding any other actual or constructive knowledge or notice thereof of or fo Lessee, its successors or assigns, no 
change or division in the Ownership of said land or of the royalties, or other moneys, or the right to receive the same, howsoever effected, shall 
be binding upon the then record owner of this lease until int (60) days after there has been furnished to such tecord owner at his or its principal 
place of business by Lessor or Lessor’s heirs, successors, or assigns, notice of such cha fe oF division, supported by either originals or uly 
certified copies of the instruments which have been Properly filed for record and which evidence such change or division, and of such court 
records and proceedings transcripts, or other documents as shall be necessary in the opinion of such record owrier to establish the validity of 
such change or division. if any such change in ownership occurs by reason of ti death of the owner, Lessee may, nevertheless pay or tender 
such royalties, or other moneys, or part thereof, to the credit of the decedent in a depository bank provided for above. 


9. in the event Lessor considers that Lessee has not complied with all its obligations hereunder, both express and implied, Lessor shall notify 

ee in writing setting out specifically in what respects Lessee has breached this contract. Lessee shall t lays i 
of said notice hin which to meet or commence to meet all or any part of the breaches alleged by Lessor. The service of said notice shall be 
precedent to the bringing of any action by Lessor on said lease for any cause, and no such action shall be brought until the lapse of sixty (60) da 
after service of such nofice on Lessee. Neither the service of said notice nor the doing of any acts by Lessee aimed to meet all or any of tl 
alleged breaches shall be deemed an admission or Presumption that Lessee has failed to perfom all its obligations hereunder. If this 5 
canceled for any cause, it shall nevertheless remain in force and effect as fo {1) sufficient acreage around each well as to which there are operations 
to constitute a drilling or maximum allowable unit under applicable governmental regulations, oi x é 
to be designated by Lessee as nearly as practicable in the form of a square centered at the well, or in such shape as then existing spacing rules 
require; and (2) any part of said land induded in a Pooled unit on which there are operations. Lessee shall also have such easements on said land 
aS are necessary to operations on the acreage so retained and shall not be required to move or remove any existing surface facilities necessary 


10. Lessor hereby warrants and agrees to defend title to said land against the claims of all persons whomsoever. Lessor's rights and 
interests hereunder shall be charged primarily with any mortgages, taxes of other liens, or interest and other charges on said land, but Lessor 
agrees that Lessee shall have the fight at any time to pay or reduce same for Lessor, either before or after mat and be subrogated to the 
rights of the holder thereof and to deduct amounts so paid from royalties or other payments able or which may become payable to Lessor 

| i UE thi i i i iphur, or other minerals in all Or any part of said land than the 
entire and undivided fee simple estate (whether Lessor’s interest is herein specified or nob), or no interest therein, then the royatties and other 
Moneys accruing from any part as to which this lease covers less than such full interest, shail be paid only in the proportion which the interest 
therein, if any, covered lease, bears to the whole and undivided fee simple estate therein. All royalty interest covered by this lease {whether 
or not owned by Lessor) shall be paid out of the lity herein provided. This lease shall be binding upon each party who executes without 


11. If, while this lease is in force, at, or after the expiration of the primary term hereof, it is not being continued in force by reason of the shut-in 
well provisions of paragraph 3 hereof, and Lessee is not conducting Operations on said land by reason of (1) any law, order, rul 

(whether or not subsequently determined to be invalid) or (2) any ol Use, rt a 

reasonable control of Lessea, the primary term hereof shall be extended until the first anniversary date hereof occurring ninety (90) or more 
days following the removal of such delaying cause, and this lease may be extended thereafter by operations as if such d jay had not occurred. 


12. Lessor agrees that this lease covers and includes any and all of Lessor's rights in and to any existing well(s) and/or wellbore{s) on said 
land, other than pet water wells, and for all purposes of this lease the re-entry and use by Lessee of any oxisting well and/or wellbore shall be 
deemed the same asthe drilling of a new well, 


13. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this lease, at the option of Lessee, which may be exercised by Lessee 


giving notice to Lessor, a well which has been dri led and Lessee intends to frac shall be deemed ’a well capable of producing in paying 
quantities and the date such well is shut-in shall be when the drilling operations are completed. 


14. As a result of land development in the vicinity of said land, governmental rules or ordinances regarding well sites, and/or surface 


restrictions as may be set forth in t : ini { t é mil 
and Lessee may encounter difficulty securing surface location(s) for drilling, reworking or ather operations. Therefore, since drilling, 
; t i 


contained in this paragraph is intended to modify any surface restrictions or pooling provisions or restrictions contained in this lease, 
except as expressly stated. 


INWITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed on the date first above written, 


BY: DAVID W. HOBBS BY: CAROLYN SWIOBBS 


STATE OF Texas} 


}ss. (ACKNOWLEDGMENT FOR INDIVIDUAL) 
COUNTY OF ___Tarrant__ } 
This instrument was acknowledged before me onthe AA day of 
husb: , 


6 2008 by David W. Hobbs and Carolyn S. Hobbs, 


Notary Pus, Sa ot Trae 
February 17, 2071 


Sign: 


Nota 


Printed Shirley Anes 


ADDENDUM 


ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THAT CERTAIN OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE DATED -o October , 2008, 

BETWEEN David W. Hobbs and wife, Carolyn S. Hobbs, AS LESSOR, AND XTO ENERGY INC., AS LESSEE, COVERING 0.46 

ACRES OF LAND, MORE OR LESS, OUT OF THE Dempsey C. Pace SURVEY, Abstract No. A-1245, IN TARRANT COUNTY, 
EXAS. 


THE PROVISIONS OF ADDENDUM SUPERSEDE COMPLETELY ANY PROVISIONS TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THE 
LEASE TO WHICH THIS ADDENDUM 1S ATTACHED. 


15. Minerals Covered. Notwithstanding any other Provision hereof, this lease covers only oil and gas. The term “oil and 
gas” means oil, gas, and other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons and their constituent elements produced through a 
well bore. 


16. Gas Royalty. Lessor’s royalty shall be calculated free and clear of costs and expenses for exploration, drilling, 
development and production, including, but not limited to, dehydration, storage, compression, separation by 
mechanical means and product stabilization, incurred prior to the oil, gas and other mineral production leaving the 


third party to transport, compress, stabilize, process or treat the oil, gas and other mineral Production off the leased 
premises in order to make the oil, gas and other mineral production saleable, increase its value or in order to get the oil, 
gas and other mineral production to a market. 


17. Shut-in Royalty. If at the end of the primary term or any time thereafter one or more wells on the leased premises or 


18. No Surface Operations. It is hereby agreed and understood that there shall be no drilling activities on the surface of 
the leased premises without the prior written permission from the surface owner of the applicable portion of the leased 
premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this waiver of surface shall not be construed as a waiver of the tights of 
Lessee to utilize the subsurface of the leased premises under this lease, and Lessee shall have the tight to exploit, 
explore for, develop and produce oil, gas and other covered minerals under this lease from wells from surface locations 
off the leased premises, including, but not limited to, directional or horizontal drilling activity which comes under the 
surface of the leased premises. This drilling surface waiver does not apply to any surface rights associated with 
instruments other than this lease. 


19. Vertical Pugh. Upon the expiration of the primary term of this Lease, upon the expiration of any extension or renewal of 
the primary term, or after cessation of operations as provided herein, whichever occurs last, this Lease shall terminate 
as to all rights lying below one hundred feet (100') below the Stratigraphic equivalent of the deepest formation drilled. 


20. No Warranties. Lessor makes no warranty of any kind with respect to title to the Land. By acceptance of this Lease, 


excluded. If Lessor owns an interest in the Land less than the entire fee simple estate, then the royalties (including 
shut-in royalties) payable hereunder will be reduced proportionately. All royalty interest covered by this lease (whether 


interest and other charges on the Land superior to this Lease, and in the event Lessee does so, Lessee will have the 
Option of applying the royalties accruing to Lessor toward payment of same and Lessee shall be subrogated to the 
tights of the holder thereof. 


Executed on the date first written above. 
Lessi 


By: 
David W. Hob! 


