International Journal of Innovative Research in Computer Science & Technology (IJIRCST) 


ISSN: 2347-5552, Volume-2, Issue-4, July-2014 


Credit Card Fraud Analysis And Detection 


Rahul V. Thakare, Prof. N. P. Chawande 


Abstract— Due to the rise and rapid growth of E-Commerce, 
use of credit cards for online purchases has dramatically 
increased and it caused an explosion in the credit card fraud. 
As credit card becomes the most popular mode of payment for 
both online as well as regular purchase, case of the fraud 
associated with it are also rising. The main objective of this 
paper is to construct an efficient fraud detection system 
which is useful for both online and regular purchase. In this 
proposed fraud detection system, the sequence of operation 
performed based on rules and probability of input action and 
compares each transaction with transactional history 
database. 


Keywords— Credit Card Fraud, Rule-based filter, 
Dempster-Shafer theory, Bayesian learner, Transactional 
History Database. 


I. INTRODUCTION 


Credit card becomes very popular and convenient mode of 
payment for both online as well as regular purchase. Due to 
the increase in credit card usage, fraudsters are also finding 
more opportunities to commit fraud, which affects banks 
and card holders to great financial losses. To support safe 
credit card usages, efficient fraud detection system is 
essential. 


Credit-card-based purchases can be categorized into two 
types: 1) Physical card and 2) Virtual card. In a 
physical-card-based purchase, the cardholder presents his 
card physically to a merchant for making a payment. To 
carry out fraudulent transactions in this kind of purchase, 
an attacker has to steal the credit card. If the cardholder 
does not realize the loss of card, it can lead to a substantial 
financial loss to the credit card company. In the second kind 
of purchase, only some important information about a card 
i.e. card number, pin number, expiration date, address etc. 
is required to make the payment. Such purchases are 
normally done on the Internet or over the telephone. To 
commit fraud in these types of purchases, a fraudster simply 
needs to know the card details. Most of the time, the 
genuine cardholder is not aware that someone else has seen 
or stolen his card information. The only way to detect this 
kind of fraud is to analyze the spending pattern on every 
card and to figure out any inconsistency with respect to the 
usual spending patterns. Fraud detection based on the 
analysis of existing purchase data of card holder is a 


Manuscript received July 23, 2014. 

Rahul V, Thakare, Computer Engg, Mumbai 
ACPCE, Kharghar, India. Rahul.thakare0 1 @ gmail.com 

Prof. N. P. Chawande, Computer Engg, Mumbai University/ 
ACPCE, Kharghar, India. npchawande @acpce.com 


University/ 


65 


promising way to reduce the rate of successful credit card 
frauds. Since humans tends to exhibit specific behaviorist 
profiles, every cardholder can be represented by a set of 
patterns containing information about the typical purchase 
category, the time since the last purchase, the amount of 
money spent, geographical location, etc. Deviation from 
such pattern is a potential threat to the system. 

The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 
describes the several techniques for the detection of credit 
card fraud. Section 3 presents details of our proposed credit 
card fraud detection system. In Section 4, we explain how 
proposed system is work. We conclude in Section 5 of the 


paper. 


Il. RELETED WORK 


Credit card fraud detection has drawn lot of research 
interest and a number of techniques, with special emphasis 
on data mining and neural networks, have been suggested. 
Ghosh and Reilly have proposed credit card fraud detection 
with a neural network. Syeda et al. have used parallel 
granular neural networks [8] for improving the speed of 
data mining and knowledge discovery process in credit card 
fraud detection. Srivastava have proposed credit card fraud 
detection using hidden markov model [3]. It is initially 
trained with the normal behavior of a cardholder. HMM 
reduces the tedious work of an employee in bank since it 
maintains a log. Fuzzy Darwinian fraud detection system 
classifies credit card transactions into “suspicious” and 
“non-suspicious” classes. The complete system is capable of 
attaining good accuracy and intelligibility levels for real 
data and produces a low false alarm. Maes and Karl have 
proposed credit card fraud detection using Bayesian and 
Neural Network [11]. The credit card fraud detection using 
Bayesian and Neural network are automatic credit card 
fraud detection system by means of machine learning 
approach. These two machine learning approaches are 
appropriate for reasoning under uncertainty. Amlan have 
proposed BLAST-SSAHA Hybridization [2] for credit card 
fraud detection system. The performance of BLAHFDS is 
good and it results in high accuracy. At the same time, the 
processing speed is fast enough to enable online detection of 
credit card fraud. It counters frauds in telecommunication 
and banking fraud detection. Chan divides a large set of 
transactions into smaller subsets and then apply distributed 
data mining for building models of users behavior. The 
resultant base models are then combined to generate a 
meta-classifier for improving detection accuracy. Present 
CARDWATCH, a database mining system used for credit 
card fraud detection. The system based on neural learning 
module, provides an interface to variety of commercial 
databases. Kim and Kim have identified skewed 
distribution of data and mix legitimate and fraudulent 


Credit Card Fraud Analysis And Detection 


transaction and the two main reasons for the complexity of 
credit card fraud detection. Based on this observation, they 
use fraud density of real transaction data as a confidence 
value and generate the weighted fraud score to reduce the 
number of misdetections. The application of distributed 
data mining in credit card fraud detection, Brause et al. 
have developed an approach that involves advanced data 
mining techniques and neural network algorithms to obtain 
high fraud coverage. 


Il. EXISTING SYSTEMS 


We studied following credit card fraud detection models 
and at end we propose our work. 


A. BLAST-SSAHA Hybridization for Credit Card Fraud 
Detection 


The Hybridization of BLAST and SSAHA algorithm [2] is 
refereed as BLAH-FDS algorithm. Sequence alignment 
becomes an efficient technique for analyzing the spending 
behavior of customers. Basic Local Alignment Search Tool 
(BLAST) and FAST-All (FASTA) are the two popular 
heuristic approaches for the local sequence alignment. 
Sequence Search and Alignment by Hash Algorithm 
(SSAHA) is one of the fastest tools for sequence alignment 
where the alignment process is performed in memory using 
hash table. BLAST and SSAHA are the efficient sequent 
alignment algorithms used for credit card fraud detection. 
BLAH-FDS is a two-stage sequence alignment algorithm in 
which a profile analyzer (PA) determines the similarity of 
an incoming sequence of transactions on a given credit card 
with the genuine cardholders past spending sequences. The 
unusual transactions traced by the profile analyzer are 
passed to a deviation analyzer (DA) for possible alignment 
with past fraudulent behavior. The final decision about the 
nature of a transaction is taken on the basis of the 
observations by these two analyzers. BLAST-SSAHA 
Hybridization When a transaction is carried out, the 
incoming sequence is merged into two sequences 
time-amount sequence TA. The TA is aligned with the 
sequences related to the credit card in CPD. This alignment 
process is done using BLAST. SSAHA algorithm [9] is 
used to improve the speed of the alignment process. If TA 
contains genuine transaction, then it would align well with 
the sequences in CPD. If there is any fraudulent 
transactions in TP, mismatches can occur in the alignment 
process. This mismatch produces a deviated sequence D 
which is aligned with FHD. A high similarity between 
deviated sequence D and FHD confirms the presence of 
fraudulent transactions. PA evaluates a Profile score (PS) 
according to the similarity between TA and CPD. DA 
evaluates a deviation score (DS) according to the similarity 
between D and FHD. The FDM finally raises an alarm if the 
total score (PS - DS) is below the alarm threshold (AT). 


B. Credit Card Fraud Detection using Hidden Markov 
Model 

A Hidden Markov Model [3] is initially trained with the 
normal behavior of a cardholder. Each incoming 
transaction is submitted to the FDS for verification. FDS 


66 


receives the card details and the value of purchase to verify 
whether the transaction is genuine or not. If the FDS 
confirms the transaction to be malicious, it raises an alarm 
and the issuing bank declines the transaction. The 
concerned cardholder may then be contacted and alerted 
about the possibility that the card is compromised. HMM 
never check the original user as it maintains a log. The log 
which is maintained will also be a proof for the bank for the 
transaction made. HMM reduces the tedious work of an 
employee in bank since it maintains a log. HMM produces 
high false alarm as well as high false positive. 


C. Fuzzy Darwinian Detection of Credit Card Fraud 


Fuzzy Darwinian Detection system [1] uses genetic 
programming to evolve fuzzy logic rules capable of 
classifying credit card transactions into suspicious and 
non-suspicious classes. It describes the use of an 
evolutionary-fuzzy system capable of classifying suspicious 
and non suspicious credit card transactions. The system 
comprises of a Genetic Programming (GP) search 
algorithm and a fuzzy expert system. Data is provided to the 
FDS system. The system first clusters the data into three 
groups namely low, medium and high. The GP genotypes 
and phenotypes of the GP System consist of rules which 
match the incoming sequence with the past sequence. 
Genetic Programming is used to evolve a series of 
variable-length fuzzy rules which characterize the 
differences between classes of data held in a database. The 
system is being developed with the specific aim of 
insurance-fraud detection which involves the challenging 
task of classifying data into the categories:”’safe” and 
suspicious”. When the customer’s payment is not overdue 
or the number of overdue payment is less than three 
months, the transaction is considered as non suspicious, 
otherwise it is considered as suspicious. The Fuzzy 
Darwinian detects suspicious and non -suspicious data and 
it easily detects stolen credit card Frauds. 


D. Credit Card Fraud Detection Using Bayesian and 
Neural Networks 


The credit card fraud detection using Bayesian and Neural 
Networks are automatic credit card fraud detection system 
by means of machine learning approach. These two 
machine learning approaches are appropriate for reasoning 
under uncertainty. An artificial neural network [7] [11] 
[12] [13] [14] consists of an interconnected group of 
artificial neurons and the commonly used neural networks 
for pattern classification is the feed forward network. It 
consist of three layers namely input, hidden and output 
layers. The incoming sequence of transactions passes from 
input layer through hidden layer to the output layer. This is 
known as forward propagation. The ANN consists of 
training data which is compared with the incoming 
sequence of transactions. The neural network is initially 
trained with the normal behavior of a cardholder. The 
suspicious transactions are then propagated backwards 
through the neural network and classify the suspicious and 
non suspicious transactions. Bayesian networks are also 
known as belief networks and it is a type of artificial 


International Journal of Innovative Research in Computer Science & Technology (IJIRCST) 


intelligence programming that uses a variety of methods, 
including machine learning algorithms and data mining, to 
create layers of data, or belief. By using supervised 
learning, Bayesian networks are able to process data as 
needed, without experimentation. Bayesian belief networks 
are very effective for modeling situations where some 
information is already known and incoming data is 
uncertain or partially unavailable. This information or 
belief is used for pattern identification and data 
classification. A neural network learns and does not need to 
be reprogrammed. Its processing speed is higher than BNN. 
Neural network needs high processing time for large neural 
networks. Bayesian networks are supervised algorithms 
and they provide a good accuracy, but it needs training of 
data to operate and requires a high processing speed. 


IV. PRAPOSED CREDIT CARD FRAUD 
DETECTION SYSTEM 


We propose a credit card fraud detection system that 
combines different types of evidences using 
Dempster-Shafer theory. We propose the four components 
for our credit card fraud detection system as shown in fig 1. 
In the proposed FDS, a number of rules are used to analyze 
the deviation of each incoming transaction from the normal 
profile of the cardholder by assigning initial beliefs to it. 
The initial belief values are combined to obtain an overall 
belief by applying Dempster Shafer theory. The overall 
belief is further strengthened or weakened according to its 
similarity with fraudulent or genuine transaction history 
using Bayesian learning. In order to meet this functionality, 
the proposed FDS is designed with the following four major 
components, 


Rule-based filter 

Dempster Shafer adder. 
Transaction history database. 
Bayesian learner. 


A. Rule-based filter (RBF) 


The RBF consists of generic as well as customer-specific 
tules which classify an incoming transaction as fraudulent 
with a certain probability. It measures the extent to which 
the transactions behavior deviates from the normal profile 
of the cardholder. This layer can have rules like average 
daily/monthly spending of a customer shipping address 
being different from billing address, etc. Address 
mismatch, the most basic check performed by various credit 
card companies is billing address and shipping address 
mismatch. Orders could be shipped to an address different 
from the billing address. This check does not help us in 
declaring a transaction as fraudulent with complete 
certainty since a genuine cardholder could gift some items 
to his friend. However, a transaction that clears this check 
can be classified as genuine with very high probability. The 
transactions that violate this check are labeled as suspect. 


67 


ISSN: 2347-5552, Volume-2, Issue-4, July-2014 


Incoming Transaction T 


Ds ADDER Suspicion \ bi 
tidal Belieg > sir | | 5 ‘Sexe \ 
\ Analysis 


Customer-specific rulqs a 4 
*? P “Updated Beliefs! 


Genuine Fraudulent 
BAYESIAN 


Ss 
DS ADDER LEARNER 


Suspicions score ; 
a Updated Beliefs 
Inidal Belief TRANSACTION 
HISTORY DATABASE 
Lower, enn in 
Upper, 
Threshold/ e 
j Initial bs - 
> _ — 
\ Beliet GTH (User specific 
Analvsis cae” 
Suspect table 
eit 
FTH (Generic) 
Genuine Fraudulent 
Suspicion score (Current Round) 


B. Dempster Shafer Adder (DSA) 


The role of the DSA is to combine evidences and compute 
an overall belief value for each transaction. For the credit 
card fraud detection problem, DST is more relevant as 
compared to other fusion methods since it introduces a third 
alternative: unknown, along with the measure of 
confidence in each of the alternatives. It provides a rule for 
computing the confidence measures of three states of 
knowledge: fraud, fraud and suspicious (unknown) based 
on data from new as well as old evidence. Furthermore, in 
DST, evidence can be associated with multiple possible 
events unlike traditional probability theory where evidence 
is associated with only one event. As a result, evidence can 
be more meaningful at a higher level of abstraction. 


C. Trasaction History Database (THD) 


THD is the transaction repository component of the 
proposed FDS. History records of both fraudulent and 
genuine transactions are used to construct models which 
allow us to extract characteristic information of the two 
classes from available data. For accomplishing this, we 
have built a good transactions history (GTH) for individual 
customers from their past behavior and a generic fraud 
transactions history (FTH) from different types of past fraud 
data. We represent each history transaction by a set of 
attributes containing information like card number, 
transaction amount and time since last purchase. 


D. Bayesian learner 


Bayesian learning is a tool to measure evidences supporting 
alternative hypotheses and arrive at optimal decisions. The 
general idea of belief revision is that, whenever new 
information becomes available, it may require updating of 
prior beliefs. 


Credit Card Fraud Analysis And Detection 


We studied the models [1] [2] [3] [7] [11], and compare 
these architectures with proposed architecture. Some 
parameters are same; the comparing parameters are listed 
in following table 1. 


TABLE I. COMPARISON BETWEEN PROPOSED AND OTHER 
MODELS 


Parameters | BLAST-S HMM Fuzzy ANN-B Propose 
SAHA NN d System 
Method Sequence HMM Genetic Artificial | Machine 
Alignment program | intellige learning 
ming and | nce 
fuzzy 
logic 
Accuracy High Medium | Very Medium | High 
High 
Processing Very High | High Low High-Lo | High 
speed w 
Cost Inexpensiv | Quite High Expensiv | Quite 
e Expensi | Expensiv | e Expensiv 
ve e e 
True 86% 10% 100% 70%-74 98% 
positive rate % 


V. CONCLUSION 


We proposed a novel credit card fraud detection system 
based on the integration of three approaches, namely, 
rule-based filtering, Dempster-Shafer theory and Bayesian 
learning. Dempsters rule is applied to combine multiple 
evidences from the rule-based component for computation 
of initial belief about each incoming transaction. The 
suspicion score is updated by means of Bayesian learning 
using history database of both genuine cardholder as well as 
fraudster. FTH is built from history data about past 
fraudulent behaviors detected by any credit card company. 
The FDS architecture is flexible so that new rules using any 
other effective technique can also be included at a later 
stage to further augment the rule-based component. In 
addition, Bayesian learning takes place so that the FDS 
dynamically adapts to the changing behavior of genuine 
customers as well as fraudsters over time. While combining 
rules using Dempster- Shafer theory gives good 
performance, especially in terms of true positives, Bayesian 
learning helps to further improve the system accuracy. The 
fusion of multiple evidences and learning are the 
appropriate approaches for credit card fraud detection. 


REFERENCES 


1] Peter J. Bentley, Jungwon Kim, Gil-Ho Jung and Jong-Uk Choi,” Fuzzy 
Darwinian Detection of Credit Card Fraud’, In the 14th Annual Fall 
Symposium of the Korean Information Processing Society, 14th 
October 2000. 


2] Amlan Kundu, Suvasini Panigrahi, Shamik Sural and Arun K. 
Majumdar, “BLAST-SSAHA Hybridization for Credit Card Fraud 
Detection,’ IEEE Transactions On Dependable And Secure 
Computing,vol. 6,Issue no.4,pp.309-315,Oct-Dec 2009. 

3] Abhinav Srivastava, Amlan Kundu, Shamik Sural, Arun K. Majumdar, 
“Credit Card Fraud Detection using Hidden Markov Model,” IEEE 
Transactions On Dependable And Secure Computing, vol. 5, Issue no. 
1, pp.37-48, January-March 2008. 

4] Aihua Shen, Rencheng Tong, Yaochen Deng, “Application of 
Classification Models on Credit Card Fraud Detection” TEEE 
Transactions 2007 


68 


Sherly K.K, R Nedunchezhian, “BOAT ADAPTIVE CREDIT CARD 
FRAUD DETECTION SYSTEM”, IEEE Transactions On 
Dependable And Secure Computing vol. 4,Issue no. 1, pp . 4244-5967, 
2010. 


Jon T.S. Quah, M. Sriganesh, “Real-time credit card fraud detection 
using computational intelligence”, 2007 Elsevier 


Y. Sahin, E. Duman, “Detecting Credit Card Fraud by ANN and 
Logistic Regression”, IEEE Transactions On Dependable And Secure 
Computing, 2011 

Mubeena Syeda, Yan-Qing Zbang and Yi Pan, “Parallel Granular 
Neural Networks for Fast Credit Card Fraud Detection”, IEEE 
Transactions On Dependable And Secure Computing, 2002. 

M. Hamdi Ozcelik, M. Mine Islk, Ekrem Duman, Tugba Cevik, 
“Improving a credit card fraud detection system using genetic 
algorithm’, IEEE Transactions On Dependable And Secure 
Computing, 2010. 


R. Huang, H. Tawfik, and A.K. Nagar, “A Novel Hybrid Artificial 
Immune Inspired Approach for Online Break-in Fraud Detection’, 
2012 Published by Elsevier Ltd. 


S. Maes, K. Tuyls, B. Vanschoenwinkel, B. Manderick, ” Credit card 
fraud detection using Bayesian and neural networks”, in: Proceedings of 
the First International NAISO Congress on Neuro Fuzzy Technologies, 
2002. 


Ghosh S., Reilly D. L., Credit card fraud detection with a neural 
network, In Proceedings of the 27th Hawaii International Conference on 
system Sciences, (1994). 


J.R. Dorronsoro, F. Ginel, C. Sanchez, C.S. Cruz, ”Neural fraud 
detection in credit card operations”, IEEE Transactions on Neural 
Networks, IEEE, 8 (July) (1997) 827834. 


R.C. Chen, S.T. Luo, X. Liang, V.C.S. Lee, ’Personalized approach 
based on SVM and ANN for detecting credit card fraud’, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Neural Networks 
and Brain, IEEE, October 2005, pp. 810815. 


R. Brause, T. Langsdorf, M. Hepp, Neural data mining for credit card 
fraud detection’, in: Proceedings of the International Conference on 
Tools with Artificial Intelligence, 1999, pp 103106. 


C. Chiu, C. Tsai, A web services-based collaborative scheme for credit 
card fraud detection’, in: Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Conference on e-Technology, e- Commerce and e-Service, IEE, 2004, 
pp. 177181. 


http://yesican.chsoft.biz/dnews-manual/rules.htm 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference 


http://www. blutner.de/uncert/Dempster-Shafer.pdf 


Mr. R. V. Thakare received the B.E degree in Computer 
Engineering from K. K. Wagh College of Ebgineering, Nashik, 
India, in year 2008. He is doing his M.E in Computer Engineering 
at Mumbai University, Mumbai,India. He has published various 
papers in the area of Computer Networking. 


Prof. N. P. Chawande received the M.E degree in Computer 
Engineering from Umiversity of Mumbai, India. He is currently 
working as Associate Professor in Department of Computer, 
ACPCE,Kharghar,Mumbai,India. He has published various 
papers in the area of Computer Networking. 


