IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Engineering  &  Technology  (IMPACT:  IJRET) 
ISSN(E):  2321-8843;  ISSN(P):  2347-4599 
Vol.  2,  Issue  5,  May  2014, 125-132 
©  Impact  Journals 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  A  METHOD  FOR  DETERMINING  MICRO-LEAKS  AND 


VOLUMETRIC  EFFICIENCY  IN  PNEUMATIC  CYLINDERS 


PIOTR  OSINSKI  &  PIOTR  CEPENDA 


Institute  of  Machine  Design  and  Operation,  Wroclaw  University  of  Technology,  Wroclaw,  Poland 


ABSTRACT 


Tightness  is  one  of  the  most  important  feature  of  any  hydraulic  or  pneumatic  component.  Proper  operation  and 
efficiency  dependent  on  it.  This  paper  describes  the  new  method  for  internal  tightness  measurement  for  pneumatic 
cylinders.  Thanks  to  its  simple  design  it  is  possible  to  perform  fast  test  operations  with  a  high  quality.  Versatility  allows 
testing  in  few  configurations  to  get  the  optimum  results.  Method  can  be  successfully  applied  in  mass  production  processes. 

KEYWORDS:  Micro-Leaks,  Pneumatic  Cylinders,  Volumetric  Efficiency 


The  most  important  factor  for  the  proper  operation  of  any  hydraulic  or  pneumatic  cylinder  is  to  provide  high 
internal  tightness.  Sealing  nodes  have  a  decisive  impact  on  the  quality  of  the  final  product,  its  proper  use  and  energy 
efficiency  of  the  entire  system.  Currently  used  test  and  measurement  equipment  does  not  detect  the  presence  of  micro-leaks 
in  a  short  period  of  time.  This  is  because  of  the  use  of  conventional  test  methods  based  on  the  measurements  using  various 
kinds  of  turbines,  heat-resistive  sensors  or  pitot  and  Prandtl  tubes.  The  use  of  the  above  measurement  methods  does  not 
provide  sufficient  accuracy  for  low  flow  rates.  The  absence  of  rapid  and  accurate  method  to  determine  micro-leaks  at  the 
manufacturing  stage  of  the  product  directly  contribute  to  the  production  of  motors  with  lower  volumetric  efficiencies, 
and  therefore  with  large  energy  loss  during  a  long  service  time.  Therefore,  as  part  of  the  Lower  Silesian  Voucher  for 
Innovations,  a  new  method  for  determining  the  micro-leaks  and  volumetric  efficiency  for  pneumatic  cylinders  has  been 
developed 

TEST  METHOD 

The  idea  of  determining  the  micro-leaks  is  based  on  measurements  of  the  pressure  drop  on  capillary  tube  or 
local  resistance  located  between  the  test  object  and  standard  part.  During  test  the  pressure  in  the  system  is  set  to  maximum 
allowable  level  resulting  from  the  strength  of  tested  cylinder.  In  the  case  of  full  tightness  of  tested  cylinder  pressure  drop 
across  the  capillary  or  local  resistance  is  equal  zero,  prp2=0. 

Scheme  of  the  pneumatic  system  for  measurements  of  the  internal  tightness  is  shown  in  Figure  1.  The  system 
consists  of  a  pressure  regulator  (1),  which  is  connected  to  an  external  air  supply.  Solenoid  valves  (2)  close  the  air  supply 
when  system  is  set  to  the  required  pressure  and  the  cylinders:  tested  (6)  and  standard  (7)  are  filled.  High  accuracy  pressure 
transducer  (3)  located  before  and  after  the  throttling  element  (8)  is  used  to  determine  the  pressure  drop.  In  addition, 
the  system  has  converter  (9)  for  measuring  the  absolute  pressure.  The  entire  system  is  protected  by  a  safety  valve  (4), 
whose  task  is  to  prevent  a  pressure  increase  above  the  permissible  value.  Drain  solenoid  valve  (5)  is  used  to  deflate  the  air 


INTRODUCTION 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1,5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


126 


Piotr  Osinski  &  Piotr  Cependa  | 


from  the  system,  test  cylinder  (6)  and  standard  cylinder  (7).  The  proposed  method  for  determination  of  micro-leaks  is 
universal  and  allows  testing  in  three  different  ways. 


1  -  Pressure  Regulator,  2  -  Shut-Off  Solenoid  Valve,  3  -  High-Resolution  Transducer  for  Differential 
Pressure  Measurement,  4  -  Safety  Valve,  5  -  Drain  Solenoid  Valve,  6  -  Tested  Cylinder,  7  -  Standard 
Element,  8  -  Throttling  Element,  9  -  Transducer  for  Absolute  Pressure  Measurement 

Figure  1:  Scheme  of  the  Measurement  System  for  Determination  of 
Internal  Leakages  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 

Test  with  Reference  Part 

The  standard  element  in  Figure  1  is  replaced  with  reference  part,  which  in  terms  of  geometric  and  material  is  a 
faithful  copy  of  the  tested  cylinder,  i.e.  has  the  same  length,  diameter,  wall  thickness,  is  made  of  the  same  material,  etc. 
Method  is  recommended  for  testing  parts  which  may  deform  and  are  exposed  to  mechanical  and  thermal  effects. 


1  -  Pressure  Regulator,  2  -  Shut-Off  Solenoid  Valve,  3  -  High-Resolution  Transducer  for  Differential 
Pressure  Measurement,  4  -  Safety  Valve,  5  -  Drain  Solenoid  Valve,  6  -  Tested  Cylinder,  7  -  Reference 
Cylinder,  8  -  Throttling  Element,  9  -  Transducer  for  Absolute  Pressure  Measurement 

Figure  2:  Scheme  of  the  Measurement  System  for  Determination  of 
Internal  Leakages  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 

Test  without  Standard  Element 


[ 


The  standard  element  in  Figure  1  is  removed  and  the  end  is  plugged.  The  error  during  test  may  occur  due  to  lack 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor @impactjournals.us 


Development  of  a  Method  for  Determining  Micro-Leaks  and  Volumetric  Efficiency  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 


127 


of  volume  on  the  reference  side,  which  according  to  adopted  methodology  is  recommended.  Therefore  this  type  of  test  can 
be  performed  only  for  cylinders  with  very  small  internal  volumes. 


1  -  Pressure  Regulator,  2  -  Shut-Off  Solenoid  Valve,  3  -  High-Resolution  Transducer  for  Differential 
Pressure  Measurement,  4  -  Safety  Valve,  5  -  Drain  Solenoid  Valve,  6  -  Tested  Cylinder,  8  -  Throttling 
Element,  9  -  Transducer  for  Absolute  Pressure  Measurement 

Figure  3:  Scheme  of  the  Measurement  System  for  Determination  of 
Internal  Leakages  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 

Simultaneous  Test  of  Two  Parts 

The  method  is  most  efficient  because  the  standard  element  is  replaced  by  second  tested  element.  The  proposed 
method  can  be  applied  only  in  the  case  of  a  small  amount  of  defective  parts  (less  than  1%).  In  such  a  case  it  is  unlikely  to 
connect  at  the  same  time  two  faulty  parts  (probability  less  than  0.1  %c.) 


1  -  Pressure  Regulator,  2  -  Shut-Off  Solenoid  Valve,  3  -  High-Resolution  Transducer  for  Differential 
Pressure  Measurement,  4  -  Safety  Valve,  5  -  Drain  Solenoid  Valve,  6  -  Tested  Cylinder,  8  -  Throttling 
Element,  9  -  Transducer  for  Absolute  Pressure  Measurement 

Figure  4:  Scheme  of  the  Measurement  System  for  Determination  of 
Internal  Leakages  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 

Test  Cycle 


[ 


The  test  cycle  consists  of  the  following  basic  steps  (see  Figure  5): 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1,5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


128  Piotr  Osinski  &  Piotr  Cependa  | 

•  Filling:  The  pressure  in  the  system  increases  to  the  value  required  for  testing,  after  reaching  the  target  pressure 
valves  cut-off  the  air  flow  from  the  outside  source; 

•  Pressure  Stabilization:  The  pressure  between  tested  element  and  standard  element  equalize;  the  temperature  and 
pressure  in  the  system  and  both  elements  stabilize;  in  case  of  a  large  leak  in  the  system  pressure  will  drop  rapidly; 

•  Testing:  Pressure  changes  between  tested  element  and  reference  volume  are  measured;  defined  differential 
pressure  should  be  within  the  permissible  pressure  drop; 

•  Draining  of  the  system. 

The  test  consists  of  five  phases. 


Table  1:  Five  Phases  of  the  Test 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Start 

Connection 

Filling 

Stabilization 

Testing 

Draining 

End  of  the 

time 

time 

time 

time 

time 

cycle 

STABILIZATION 


Figure  5:  Cyclogram  of  Cylinder  Testing 


Gap  Definition 


Determination  of  the  threshold  limit  for  the  leakage  is  a  separate  and  very  important  issue.  To  make  a  proper 
assessment  of  whether  a  product  is  tight  (decision  pass/fail)  the  threshold  value  of  the  leakage  has  to  be  determined. 
In  general,  this  value  is  given  in  the  technical  specification  of  the  product.  If  the  product  is  tight  we  can  assume  that  for 
given  operating  conditions  and  quality  criteria  the  possible  leakage  value  is  below  the  allowable  tolerance. 

Leakage  size  through  the  throttle  gap  is  dependent  on  the  geometry  of  the  gap  and  the  type  of  flow 
(laminar  or  turbulent).  In  the  case  of  capillary  tube  (small  hole  diameter  in  relation  to  its  length)  the  flow  is  laminar. 
The  further  considerations  omit  turbulent  flow  that  occurs  in  rough  pipes  (in  this  case  must  take  into  account 
Darcy-Weisbach  equation  with  a  flow  resistance  described  by  Nikuradse  equation).  According  to  above  assumptions,  the 
flow  rate  can  be  described  by  the  Hagen-Poiseuille  equation,  therefore  [1]  [2]: 


AQ  =  kJdAp 


CD 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor @impactjournals.us 


Development  of  a  Method  for  Determining  Micro-Leaks  and  Volumetric  Efficiency  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 


129 


while 


1  32jul 
where:   kj  -  factor  of  proportionality, 

fd  -  area  of  the  gap, 
For  sharp  edge  orifice  turbulent  flow  occurs,  thus: 


(2) 


&Q  =  k2fdylAp 

while 


-      2   -  I2 


(3) 


(4) 


The  equations  can  be  written  in  the  general  form  describing  the  flow  through  throttle  gap  of  any  type: 

Afi  =  kfdApn 

In  case  of  capillary  gap  k  =  kj,  and  n  =1.  Relationship  AQ  =  f(Ap)  then  will  be  defined  by  formula  (1). 

Its  graphic  representations  is  straight  line  which  starts  from  origin  of  coordinates  and  with  slope  equal  to  kxfd  .  For  orifices 

k  =  k2,  a  n  =0.5.  Graphic  characteristics  of  such  gaps  is  a  parabola  with  vertex  lying  at  the  origin.  The  comparison  of  both 
characteristics  shows  that  the  course  of  the  volumetric  flow  rate  as  a  function  of  the  pressure  drop  for  capillary  tube  is 
favourable.  It  is  because  there  is  a  linear  proportionality  between  pressure  drop  and  flow  rate. 

For  orifices  with  rounded  edges,  and  capillaries  of  relatively  short  length  the  exponent  can  be  taken  from  range 
l>?z>0.5. 


Api    Ap2  Ap 

Figure  6:  Static  Characteristics  of  Considered  Local  Resistances 

The  relationship  1/d  which  describes  ratio  of  the  length  to  the  diameter  of  the  gap  can  be  helpful  while  determining 
the  type  of  the  gap.  For  high  values  of  1/d  flow  is  similar  to  that  appearing  in  the  capillary  tube  that  is,  for  n  =  1. 

Impact  Factor(JCC):  1,5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


130 


Piotr  Osinski  &  Piotr  Cependa  | 


Smaller  values  of  1/d  will  make  the  flow  rate  course  similar  to  that  described  by  equation  (3)  which  describes  orifices 
(n  =  0.5).  It  is  easy  to  notice  the  analogy  between  how  the  changes  of  1/d  and  the  exponent  n  influence  the  flow 
characteristics  through  the  gap.  Graph  showing  the  changes  in  the  flow,  taking  into  account  1/d,  and  n  is  shown  in  Figure  7. 


Q 


1/nJ/d 


Figure  7:  Static  Characteristics  of  the  Local  Resistance  Including  Ratio  of 
Length  to  Diameter  of  the  Gap 

Volumetric  efficiency  of  the  test  cylinders  is  the  ratio  of  theoretical  absorption  Qt  to  the  actual  absorption  Qrz. 
Actual  absorption  is  greater  than  the  theoretical  by  value  AQ  (micro  leakage),  hence  we  get  [3]: 


vv  = 


(5) 


If  we  want  to  detect  small  leaks  in  a  short  time  (productivity  requirements  of  the  production  line)  we  must  use 
appropriately  sensitive  transducers  with  high  measurement  resolution.  When  the  test  pressure  is  on  the  level  of  few  bars  it 
is  impossible  using  one  transducer  to  precisely  measure  at  the  same  time  the  pressure  value  of  1  bar  (106  Pa)  and 
small  value  of  pressure  drop  about  1  or  10  Pa.  In  this  case,  the  combination  of  high  sensitivity  measurement  with  good 
productivity  is  only  possible  by  using  a  differential  pressure  gauge  with  high  accuracy.  Control  of  the  small  changes  in 
pressure  should  be  carried  out  in  relation  to  the  pressure  of  the  standard  element. 

Measurement  Circuit 

The  measuring  system  used  to  measure  the  pressure  difference  is  composed  of  a  piezoelectric  sensor,  the  signal 
amplifier  and  the  data  collector.  As  a  result  of  changes  in  pressure,  crystal  in  the  sensor  generates  a  charge  which,  through 
low-noise  cable,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  charge  amplifier.  The  primary  function  of  the  amplifier  is  to  convert  the 
high-impedance  signal  to  a  low-impedance  voltage  signal  that  is  then  recorded.  In  addition,  properly  selected  amplifier 
should  have  a  low  input  capacitance  to  ensure  high  sensitivity  and  a  large  input  resistance  to  provide  a  small  current 
leakage. 

In  the  end,  the  piezoelectric  transducer  cannot  be  directly  connected  to  the  measuring  instrument,  because  of  the 
large  input  resistance,  which  should  be  transformed  by  a  special  electronic  circuits  for  low-impedance  output. 
Only  this  will  ensure  the  proper  operation  with  measuring  and  analyzing  equipment. 

^ndex  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor @impactj our nals.us  | 


Development  of  a  Method  for  Determining  Micro-Leaks  and  Volumetric  Efficiency  in  Pneumatic  Cylinders 


131 


Piezoelectric  Crystal 
I  


"1 


CI 


C2 


Ca 


C3 

=r  > 


q  -  charge 
CI  -  crystal  capacitance 
C2  -  cable  capacitance 
C3  -  amplifier  input  capacitance 
Ca  -  feedback  capacitor 


L. 


■J  Cable  L- 


Charge  Type  Sensor  Charge  Amplifier 

Figure  8:  Scheme  of  the  Charge  System 

Each  of  the  elements  in  the  described  measurement  circuit  has  a  capacitance  C,  allowing  him  to  accumulate 
electric  charge.  This  charge  is  leaking  during  the  time,  and  the  speed  of  this  leakage  depends  primarily  on  the  feedback 
resistor  and  capacitor  in  the  charge  amplifier.  This  leads  to  a  characteristic  exponential  course  deformation  of  pressure 
changes  registered  by  the  piezoelectric  sensor.  As  a  result  of  this  phenomenon  signal  measured  by  piezoelectric  sensor  has 
a  different  course  than  the  actual  signal.  It  is  shown  pictorially  in  Figure  9.  A  positive  charge  is  formed  when  the  pressure 
increases  and  the  negative  charge  when  the  pressure  decreases.  Both  charges  are  stored  in  the  circuit  of  measuring  system 
and  then  are  gradually  discharged.  Leakage  time  (discharge  time)  of  the  charge  can  be  described  by  the  formula  (6). 


U{t)  =  U0-e~RC 

where:  U  -  Measured  voltage, 

U0  -  Voltage  at  the  start  of  the  discharge, 
t  -  Time  from  the  beginning  of  the  discharge, 
R  C  -  Relaxation  factor  of  the  circuit. 


(6) 


Figure  9:  Comparison  of  Actual  and  Measured  Pressure  with  Piezoelectric 
Sensor  (Solid  Line  -  Actual  Course,  Dashed  Line  -  Measured  Course) 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1,5548  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


I  132  Piotr  Osinski  &  Piotr  Cependa  | 

Knowledge  of  the  capacitor  discharge  phenomenon  allows  such  correction  of  the  measured  course  to  get  the 
real  course. 

CONCLUSIONS 

This  paper  presents  a  new  method  for  determining  micro-leaks  in  pneumatic  cylinders.  Measurements  will  be 
used  to  determine  volumetric  efficiency  of  the  cylinder  and  allow  for  an  assessment  of  its  quality.  Due  to  the 
high  versatility,  the  evaluation  can  be  performed  in  three  different  configurations,  depending  on  the  conditions  and  the  type 
of  tested  parts.  One  of  the  big  advantages  of  this  method  is  the  possibility  of  quick  change  of  the  test  specimens  which 
allows  the  measurement  of  large  quantities  in  a  relatively  short  period  of  time.  Especially  in  the  case  of  testing  two  parts  at 
the  same  time.  This  method  is  suited  to  the  testing  of  mass  production  products. 

Thanks  to  the  mathematical  description  of  the  changes  in  flow  rate  all  the  components  of  the  measurement  system 
can  be  appropriately  selected,  especially  the  transmitter  to  measure  differential  pressure. 

Components  of  the  measurement  system  have  high  resistance  to  changes  of  temperature.  This  allows  to  perform 
measurements  in  a  wide  range  of  temperatures.  Even  in  case  of  very  low  temperatures.  Dehumidified  air  widely  used  in 
pneumatic  systems  will  minimize  the  risk  of  freezing  of  sensitive  measuring  elements,  which  are  responsible  for  the 
accuracy  of  the  measurements.  With  such  a  wide  range  of  application  method  allows  to  carry  out  measurements  even  in  the 
most  extreme  conditions,  often  required  for  the  production  of  components  for  the  automotive  industry. 

REFERENCES 

1.  W.  Dindorf,  Hydraulika  i  pneumatyka:  podstawy,  cwiczenia,  laboratorium  (Kielce:  Wydawnictwo  Politechniki 
Swietokrzyskiej,  2003). 

2.  W.     Szenajch,     J.     Koprzywa,     L.     Sawicki,     Pneumatyka     i    hydraulika    maszyn  technologicznych 
(Warszawa:  Politechnika  Warszawska,  1990). 

3.  L.  W^sierski,  Podstawy  pneumatyki.  (Krakow:  Akademia  Gorniczo-Hutnicza,  1990). 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor @impactjournals.us 


