IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Humanities,  Arts  and  Literature  (IMPACT:  IJRHAL) 
ISSN(P):  2347-4564;  ISSN(E):  2321-8878 
Vol.  5,  Issue  6,  Jun  2017, 133-140 
© Impact  Journals 


SOURCES  OF  SELF-  EFFICACY  IN  MATHEMATICS:  AN  EXPLORATORY  STUDY 

RUCHI  MITTAL1  & ALPRATA  AHUJA2 

'Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Elementary  Education,  Institute  of  Home  Economics,  University  of  Delhi,  India 
Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Education,  Shyama  Prasad  Mukherji  College,  University  of  Delhi,  India 

ABSTRACT 

Individuals  form  their  self-efficacy  beliefs  by  interpreting  information  from  four  sources:  mastery  experience, 
vicarious  experience,  social  persuasions  and  physiological  or  affective  states  (Bandura,  1986,  1997).  Efficacy  beliefs 
influence  whether  people  think  erratically  or  strategically,  optimistically  or  pessimistically.  Predictive  power  of  academic 
self-efficacy  is  attested  by  ample  researches  (Locke,  Frederick,  Lee  & Bobko,  1984;  Schunk,  1984)  but  few  efforts  have 
been  made  to  investigate  sources  underlying  these  beliefs  (Pajares  & Urdan,  2006).  This  study  examined  the  heuristics 
students  use  as  they  form  their  mathematics  self-efficacy  from  these  and  other  sources.  The  study  also  made  attempt  to 
look  into  more  about  the  factors  relating  to  self-efficacy.  Attempts  were  made  to  study  the  influence  of  the  experiences 
students  get  in  developing  their  self-efficacy  beliefs.  The  questionnaire  was  administered  to  100  students  of  8th  grade  of 
both  Sarvodaya  Schools  and  Public  Schools  in  Delhi.  Results  were  analyzed  quantitatively  using  t-test  and  correlation 
coefficient.  Results  suggested  mastery  experiences,  to  be  the  most  powerful  source  in  affecting  self-efficacy  beliefs 
whereas  the  physiological  factors  showed  a negative  correlation.  The  present  study  can  be  further  extended  to  give 
implications  for  student’s  higher  education  and  career  choices  in  the  future. 

KEYWORDS:  Self-Efficacy,  Sources  of  Self-Efficacy,  Mastery  Experiences,  Vicarious  Experiences,  Social 
Persuasions,  Physiological  State. 

INTRODUCTION 

Self-Efficacy 

Unless  people  believe  they  can  produce  desired  outcomes  they  have  little  incentive  to  act.  Self-referent  thought 
plays  an  important  role  in  the  psychological  functioning  of  a human.  People’s  conception  of  their  personal  efficacy  is  most 
influential  in  their  everyday’s  life.  Self-efficacy  beliefs  of  a person  have  been  identified  as  an  important  factor  for 
performing  tasks  successfully  (Bandura,  1986,  1997).  According  to  Social  Cognitive  Theory  - Self-Efficacy  is  “people’s 
judgments  of  their  capabilities  to  organize  and  execute  courses  of  action  required  attaining  designated  types  of 
performances”  (Bandura,  1978,  p.391).  It  is  concerned  not  with  the  skills;  one  has,  but  with  the  judgements  of  what  one 
can  do  with  whatever  skills  one  possesses.  Bandura  postulates  that  person’s  beliefs  concerning  his  or  her  ability  to 
successfully  perform  a given  task  or  behavior  are  a major  determinant  of  whether  a person  will  attempt  a given  task,  how 
much  effort  will  be  expended,  and  how  much  persistence  will  be  displayed  in  pursuing  the  task  in  the  face  of  obstacles. 
Efficacy  involves  a generative  capability  in  which  cognitive,  social,  and  behavioural  sub  skills  must  be  organized  into 
integrated  courses  of  action  to  serve  innumerable  purposes.  Success  is  often  attained  only  after  generating  and  testing 
alternative  forms  of  behavior  and  strategies,  which  requires  perseverant  effort.  Self-doubters  are  quick  to  abort  this 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  3.6586  - This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


Ruchi  Mittal  & Alprata  Ahuja 


134 


generative  process  if  their  initial  efforts  prove  deficient.  Different  people  with  similar  skills,  or  the  same  person  on 
different  occasions,  may  perform  poorly,  adequately,  or  extraordinarily.  Collins  (1982)  did  a study  on  children  who 
perceived  themselves  to  be  of  high  or  low  mathematical  self-efficacy,  were  given  difficult  problems  to  solve.  It  was  found 
while  mathematical  ability  contributed  to  performance,  children  who  regarded  themselves  as  efficacious  were  quicker  to 
discard  faulty  strategies,  solve  more  problems,  reworked  more  of  those  they  failed,  and  displayed  a positive  attitude 
towards  mathematics.  Another  study  showed  perceived  self-efficacy  as  a significant  determinant  of  performance  that 
operates  partially  independently  of  underlying  skills  (Locke,  Frederick,  Lee,  & Bobko,  1984;  Schunk,  1984).  Bandura  has 
drawn  a distinction  between  the  role  of  self-efficacy  beliefs  and  that  of  outcome  expectations.  Self-efficacy  is  a judgement 
of  one’s  capability  to  accomplish  a certain  level  of  performance  whereas  outcome  expectation  is  a judgement  of  the  likely 
consequence  such  behavior  will  produce.  An  outcome  is  consequence  of  an  act,  not  the  act.  But  outcome  expectation  is  not 
a strong  predictor  of  achievement  as  are  self-efficacy  beliefs.  Thus  self-  efficacy  predicts  performance  much  better  than 
expected  outcomes  in  diverse  activities  like  phobias,  assertiveness,  pain  tolerance,  etc.  (Barling  & Abel,  1983;  Williams  & 
Watson,  1985). 

Mathematics  is  a subject  wherein  due  to  its  abstract  nature,  language,  mathematical  discourse,  societal 
persuasions,  students  generally  tend  to  develop  a phobia  for  it.  Mathematics  aims  at  developing  problem-solving  skills  in  a 
person.  In  becoming  a successful  problem  solver  one’s  own  belief  in  mathematical  competence  plays  an  important  role. 
In  light  of  this,  increasing  mathematical  self-efficacy  will  increase  confidence  to  do  more  mathematics  in  everyday  life. 
A person  having  negative  attitude  and  expectations  towards  mathematics  mostly  have  low  performance  at  school  or  bad 
experiences  in  math  classrooms,  leading  to  an  expectation  of  not  being  able  to  handle  mathematics  in  general  as  well. 
A person  with  low  mathematical  self-  efficacy  will  tend  to  avoid  math  task.  Not  only  this,  it  will  also  lead  to  negative 
decisions  about  mathematics,  e.g.  he  might  not  be  interested  in  opting  the  course  in  future,  will  avoid  doing  everyday 
computations.  It  is  thus  far  more  important  to  increase  mathematical  self-efficacy  than  to  only  increase  content  knowledge. 
Person’s  own  successful  performance  develops  his  positive  self-efficacy  beliefs.  If  a student  accomplishes  a task  own  his 
own  with  some  feedback,  he  develops  a positive  attitude  towards  dealing  with  new  situations. 

Many  researchers  have  been  done  to  study  the  predictive  power  of  self-efficacy  beliefs  and  have  even  attested 
them,  but  there  have  been  fewer  efforts  to  investigate  the  sources  underlying  those  (Pajares  & Urdan,  2006).  In  the  present 
study  authors  are  concerned  with  sources  of  mathematics  self-efficacy  beliefs.  Thus  the  present  paper  attempts  to  look  at 
sources  of  self-efficacy  and  their  relation  to  mathematics  achievement. 

Bandura  (1997)  hypothesized  that  self-efficacy  beliefs  are  developed  as  individuals  interpret  information  from 
four  sources  namely:  Mastery  Experiences,  Vicarious  Experiences,  Social  Persuasions,  and  Physiological  State. 

SOURCES  OF  SELF-EFFICACY 


Mastery  Experiences 

Vicarious  Experiences 

Self-Efficacy 

Sources 

Social  Persuasions 

Physiological  State 

Figure  1:  Sources  of  Self-Efficacy 


NAAS  Rating:  3.10-  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Sources  of  Self-  Efficacy  in  Mathematics:  An  Exploratory  Study 


135 


• Mastery  Experiences  - Mastery  experiences  are  the  ones  which  they  gain  from  their  own  previous  attainments. 
Once  the  students  complete  an  academic  task,  they  interpret  and  evaluate  the  results  obtained,  and  judgments  of 
competence  are  created  or  revised  on  the  basis  of  those  interpretations.  Bandura  (1997)  considered  it  to  be  the  most 
powerful  source  as  it  is  interpreted  result  of  one’s  own  previous  attainments.  These  experiences  prove  powerful  when 
individuals  overcome  obstacles  or  succeed  on  challenging  tasks,  especially  those  that  are  difficult  for  others 
(Bandura,  1997).  Successful  performances  in  a domain  have  lasting  effects  on  one’s  self-  efficacy.  A student  who 
accomplished  a task  in  mathematics  and  was  successful  will  be  confident  to  perform  similar  and  challenging  task  in  future 
also. 

• Vicarious  Experiences  (Peers  & Adults)  - Self-Efficacy  beliefs  are  also  influenced  by  vicarious  experiences  of  others. 
Students  can  gauge  their  capabilities  in  relation  to  the  performance  of  others.  Students  compare  themselves  to  particular 
individuals  such  as  classmates,  peers  and  adults  as  they  make  judgments  of  their  own  capabilities.  When  a classmate 
succeeds  in  a challenging  task  he  might  convince  others  to  do  the  task.  Students  may  alter  their  beliefs  following  the 
success  or  failure  of  the  model  to  an  extent  that  they  might  feel  similar  to  model  in  that  task.  Not  only  with  others  but  self 
comparison  is  also  vicarious  experience  wherein  person  compares  own  current  and  past  experiences. 

• Social  Persuasions  - Students  receive  encouragements  from  parents,  teachers  and  adults  whom  students  trust  to  boost 
their  confidence  in  their  academic  capabilities.  Supportive  messages  can  serve  to  boost  student’s  self  confidence  and  effort, 
particularly  when  accompanied  by  conditions  and  instructions  that  help  bring  about  success  (Bandura,  1997). 

• Physiological  State  - Students  physiological  state  such  as  fatigue,  stress  also  affect  their  self-efficacy  beliefs.  Students 
learn  to  interpret  their  physiological  arousal  as  an  indicator  of  personal  competence  by  evaluating  their  own  performances 
under  differing  conditions.  Increasing  student’s  physical  and  emotional  well-being  and  reducing  negative  emotional  states 
strengthens  self-efficacy. 

Self-efficacy  expectations  are  task  and  domain  specific  (Pajares  & Miller,  1995).  This  implies  that  self-efficacy 
expectations  should  be  always  fitted  to  related  domain.  Thus,  mathematical  self-efficacy  is  positively  related  to  math 
performance  (Pajares  & Miller,  1995;  Liu  & Koirala,  2009).  So  higher  is  the  rate  of  person  on  self-efficacy  scale,  better  is 
the  performance. 

WHY  THIS  STUDY? 

The  above  discussion  has  laid  the  emphasis  on  the  importance  of  self-efficacy  beliefs  especially  its  relation  and 
importance  to  Mathematics  self-efficacy.  This  brings  us  to  the  discussion:  why  the  present  study  was  taken  up? 
The  researchers  through  review  of  the  related  literature  came  across  many  types  of  research  which  have  established  that 
self-efficacy  is  a strong  predictor  of  behavior  (Maddux,  Norton  & Stoltenberg,  1986).  Still,  there  was  a paucity  of  research 
in  exploring  the  relationship  between  self-efficacy  and  academic  performance  in  mathematics.  There  is  a need  to  explore 
the  relation  between  self-efficacy  beliefs  and  performance  in  mathematics  as  it  can  influence  the  whole  classroom  scenario, 
the  teacher’s  attitude  towards  students  and  their  beliefs  can  change. 

Also,  there  have  been  a fewer  effort  to  investigate  the  sources  underlying  the  self  beliefs  about  performance  in 
mathematics  (Pajares  & Urdan,  2006).  The  exploration  of  relation  between  each  source  of  belief  and  performance  in 
mathematics  can  help  teachers,  students  and  other  stakeholders  in  the  process  to  make  mathematical  learning  meaningful. 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  3.6586  - This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


Ruchi  Mittal  & Alprata  Ahuja 


136 


The  results  of  the  relationship  can  help  us  plan  specific  strategies  and  take  up  certain  measures  in  classroom  or  outside 
which  can  improve  student’s  mathematics  performance. 

RESEARCH  OBJECTIVES 

Research  objectives  provide  us  with  the  direction  to  take  any  research  forward  after  the  initial  inclination  and 
work  done  by  the  researcher.  The  following  research  objectives  were  formulated: 

• To  study  mathematical  self-efficacy  of  class  8 students. 

• To  explore  the  relationship  between  self-efficacy  and  achievement  in  mathematics. 

• To  study  the  relation  between  sources  of  self-efficacy  and  achievement  in  mathematics. 

SAMPLE 

The  population  of  the  study  was  class  8 students  of  both  Public  and  Sarvodaya  Vidyalaya.  Class  8 students  were 
chosen  as  8th  standard  forms  a transitory  phase  for  students  in  terms  of  studying  mathematics  before  they  move  to 
secondary  schooling.  This  highlights  the  importance  of  formation  of  mathematical  self-efficacy  beliefs  at  this  level.  50 
students  were  selected  from  each  school  - a Public  school  & Sarvodaya  school  in  Delhi.  Both  schools  and  students  were 
selected  through  random  sampling.  Thus,  making  a sample  of  total  100  class  8 students.  During  data  collection  due  care 
was  taken,  that  wording  of  the  item  statements  does  not  hinder  in  the  process  of  data  collection  for  which  meaning  of  the 
statements  were  explained  to  the  students  especially  in  Sarvodaya  School. 

TOOL  USED  FOR  THE  STUDY 

Tool  for  data  collection  was  adapted  from  Mathematics  Achievement  and  Self-  Efficacy  tool  by  Usher  & Pajares 
(2009).  It  was  a 5-point  Likert-type  rating  scale  questionnaire.  This  tool  had  30  items  catering  to  four  sources  in  which 
Vicarious  experiences  were  further  divided  into  two  categories  of  peer  and  adult.  Thus,  on  decomposing,  making  it  6 
questions  from  each  of  5 categories.  All  the  items  of  the  questionnaire  were  statements  in  the  first  person  and  each  item 
was  rated  as  Never(l),  Seldom(2),  Sometimes(3),  Often(4)  and  Usually(5).  All  the  statements  were  positive  in  nature. 
Some  sample  item  statements  from  the  tool  are  stated  below,  for  more  clarity: 

• Mastery  Experience  - I got  a high  grade  in  last  year’s  Math  class. 

• Vicarious  (Peer)  Experience  - I had  a close  friend(s)  whom  I respected  for  Math  achievement. 

• Vicarious  (Adult)  Experience  - My  favorite  teachers  are  usually  Math  teachers. 

• Social  Persuasions  - My  teacher  often  encouraged  me  by  praising  my  math  ability. 

• Physiological  - 1 often  feel  blue  when  I think  of  Math. 

DATA  ANALYSIS 

The  responses  given  to  the  questionnaire  were  analyzed  quantitatively.  For  each  respondent,  a total  score  on  self- 
efficacy  beliefs  was  calculated.  Scores  for  each  respondent  was  calculated  category  wise  - Mastery  experience.  Vicarious 
total  score,  Vicarious(Peer),  Vicarious! Adult),  Social  persuasions  score  and  Physiological  state.  The  next  step  in  data 
analysis  is  to  find  a pattern  emerging  from  the  given  data.  For  that,  data  was  analysed  quantitatively  by  applying  Pearson 
correlation  & t-test  of  significance.  Pearson  coefficient  was  applied  to  establish  the  relation  between  ‘Achievement  Score 


NAAS  Rating:  3.10-  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Sources  of  Self-  Efficacy  in  Mathematics:  An  Exploratory  Study 


137 


(AS)’  and  ‘Self-Efficacy  Score’.  Similarly,  the  authors  wanted  to  establish  relation  between  AS  and  Self  Efficacy  - 
Vicarious  Score  (SEVS),  Vicarious  Peer  Score  (SEV  Peer  S),  Vicarious  Adult  Score  (SEV  Adult  S),  Social  Persuasions 
Score  (SESS)  and  Self  Efficacy  Physiological  State  Score  (SEPS)  respectively.  The  t-test  was  applied  to  test  the 
significance  of  the  relationship  between  above  mentioned  factors  and  achievement  score  of  the  respondents. 


Table  1:  Results  Obtained  for  Pearson  Correlation  Coefficient  and  T-Test 


SE 

Score 

Master 
y Score 

Vicarious 

Score 

Vicarious 

(Peer) 

Score 

Vicarious 

(Adult) 

Score 

Social 

Score 

Physiological 

Score 

Achievement 

Score 

Pearson 

Correlation 

0.59 

0.72 

0.26 

0.3 

0.1 

0.52 

-0.12 

t-Test 

2.77 

8.04 

5.07 

5.97 

1.16 

3.73 

4.17 

N 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

DISCUSSION  OF  RESULTS 

The  results  of  data  analysis  are  discussed  as  follows: 

• In  conclusion,  it  indicates  that  the  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SES  was  high  (0.59).  This  correlation 
coefficient  was  significant  at  p<  0.1,  0.05. 

• The  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SEMS  was  high  (0.72).  This  correlation  coefficient  was  significant  at 
p<  0.1,0.05. 

• The  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SEVS  was  low  (0.26).  This  correlation  coefficient  was  significant  at 
p<  0.1,0.05. 

• Also,  the  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SEV(Peer)S  was  moderate  (0.3).  This  correlation  coefficient 
was  significant  at  p<  0.1,  0.05. 

• It  also  indicates  that  the  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SEV(Adult)S  was  low  (0.1).  This  correlation 
coefficient  was  not  significant  at  p<  0.1,  0.05. 

• Also,  the  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SESS  was  high  (0.52).  This  correlation  coefficient  was 
significant  at  p<  0.1,  0.05. 

• The  strength  of  association  between  AS  and  SEPS  was  low  (-0.12)  showing  negative  correlation.  This  correlation 
coefficient  was  highly  significant  at  p<  0.1,  0.05 

DISCUSSION  OF  FINDINGS 

The  following  were  the  findings  based  on  interpretation  of  the  results  to  explain  the  established  relationships: 

• Mastery  Self  Efficacy  has  been  shown  to  be  the  most  consistent  predictor  of  students’  self-efficacy  about 
mathematics  achievement  which  is  in  support  of  the  hypothesis  as  given  by  Bandura  (1997)  and  is  in  support  of 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  3.6586  - This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


Ruchi  Mittal  & Alprata  Ahuja 


138 


many  findings  (Usher  & Pajares,  2009).  This  highlights  the  importance  of  mastery  experience  in  the  life  of  a 
student. 

• Social  persuasion  was  found  as  next  most  important  factor  too  as  it  was  also  highly  related  to  Mathematics 
achievement.  This  brings  to  our  notice  the  effect  of  social  persuasions  in  the  student’s  beliefs  about  self.  The 
attitude  shown  by  the  people  closely  related  to  student’s  life  makes  a difference  in  their  beliefs. 

• Vicarious  peer  experiences  seem  more  important  factor  than  vicarious  adult  experiences  as  students  usually 
related  to  their  peers  more  than  the  adults  around.  Students  saw  their  peers  performing  or  not  performing  which 
influenced  their  beliefs  about  whether  they  will  be  able  to  attain  a given  task  or  not. 

• Physiological  factor  show  low  and  negative  correlation  suggesting  that  physical  conditions  do  not  affect 
mathematical  achievement  score.  For  the  given  sample  physiological  state  of  the  child  does  not  have  a 
considerable  effect  on  the  child.  Many  studies  do  not  show  a consistent  relation  between  self-efficacy  beliefs  and 
other  sources  of  these  beliefs  apart  from  mastery  experience  (Usher  & Pajares,  2009).  Thus  this  low  and  negative 
relation  cannot  be  explained  in  detail. 

IMPLICATIONS  OF  THE  STUDY 

The  authors  have  drawn  the  following  implications  which  can  be  important  for  teachers,  students  and  classroom 
settings: 

• Self-Efficacy  theory  may  be  a heuristic  model  for  mathematics  teachers  attempting  to  organize  activities  that 
supplement  traditional  classroom  instructions  in  mathematics  and  promote  mathematical  performance.  This  shift 
from  traditional  classroom  settings  will  provide  students  with  meaningful  mastery  experiences  leading  to  positive 
effect  on  mathematics  performance. 

• Information  about  mathematics  self  concept  may  be  useful  to  teachers  concerned  with  monitoring  students’  self 
estimate  of  competence  in  mathematics.  It  can  help  teachers  plan  their  pedagogy  accordingly.  The  teachers  can 
use  the  students’  ability  to  estimate  in  their  future  planning  of  lessons. 

• Exposure  to  mathematics  with  positive  outcomes  increases  mathematics  self-efficacy.  Thus,  students  should  be 
provided  with  many  opportunities  for  positive  outcomes.  This  can  be  done  in  schools,  outside  schools  and  at  home 
etc.  The  experience  of  positive  outcomes  will  enhance  mastery  experiences  of  the  child,  which  in  turn  will 
improve  mathematics  achievement. 

• The  role  of  educator  should  be  to  do  whatever  is  necessary  to  aid  students  in  increasing  their  perception  of  actual 
ability. 

• Encouragement  and  motivational  statements  help  in  increasing  Self-Efficacy.  So  teacher  should  provide  positive 
environment  in  Mathematics  classroom.  Mathematics  classroom  should  be  without  fear  and  free,  encouraging 
space  to  learn  mathematics  should  be  there. 


NAAS  Rating:  3.10-  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Sources  of  Self-  Efficacy  in  Mathematics:  An  Exploratory  Study 


139 


• The  self-efficacy  beliefs  also  relate  to  the  future  choice  of  the  students  whether  to  pursue  mathematics  for  higher 
learning  or  making  mathematics  as  a career  choice.  Positive  beliefs  will  lead  to  positive  inclination  towards 
mathematics  not  only  in  current  situation  but  in  future  too. 

EXTENSION  OF  THE  GIVEN  STUDY 

No  study  is  absolute  in  itself.  Authors  feel  that  the  current  study  has  a scope  of  further  extension.  It  could  be 
substantiated  with  interviews  from  teachers;  narratives  of  students  can  also  be  studied.  This  will  help  in  probing  the 
reasons  in  the  formation  of  self-efficacy  beliefs.  Not  only  this,  physiological  factors  can  be  explored  more  deeply  as  low 
and  negative  correlation  was  seen  among  physiological  factors  and  achievement.  The  reason  for  achieving  this  relationship 
could  be  probed  further. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Bandura,  A.  (1978).  The  self  system  in  reciprocal  determinism.  American  Psychologist , 33(4),  344-358. 

2.  Bandura,  A.  (1986).  Social  foundations  of  thought  and  action:  A social  cognitive  theory.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
NJ:  Prentice-Hall. 

3.  Bandura,  A.  (1997).  Self-efficacy:  The  exercise  of  control.  New  York:  Freeman. 

4.  Bong,  M.,  & Skaalvik,  E.M.  (2003).Academic  self-concept  and  self-efficacy:  How  different  are  they  really? 
Educational  Psychology  Review,  15,  1-40. 

5.  Hackett,  G.,  & Betz,  N.E.  (1989).  An  exploration  of  the  mathematics  self-efficacy/mathematics  performance 
correspondence.  Journal  for  Research  in  Mathematics  Education,  20,  261-273. 

6.  Pajares,  F.,  & Kranzler,  J.  (1995).  Self-efficacy  beliefs  and  general  mental  ability  in  mathematical  problem- 
solving. Contemporary  Educational  Psychology,  20(4),  426-443. 

7.  Pajares,  F.  & Miller,  M.D.  (1994).  Role  of  self-efficacy  and  self-concept  beliefs  in  mathematical  problem  solving: 
A path  analysis.  Journal  of  Educational  Psychology,  86(2),  193-203. 

8.  Pajares,  F.  & Miller,  M.D.  (1995).  Mathematics  self-efficacy  and  mathematics  performances:  The  need  for 
specificity  of  assessment.  Journal  of  Counseling  Psychology,  42(2),  190-198. 

9.  Usher,  E.L.,  & Pajares,  F.  (2006).  Inviting  confidence  in  school:  Invitations  as  a critical  source  of  the  academic 
self-efficacy  beliefs  of  entering  middle  school  students.  Contemporary  Educational  Psychology,  1,  125-141. 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  3.6586  - This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


