SECOND  AMENDMENT  TO  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

This  Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  ("Second  Amendment")  is  executed  by  I- 
20  Joint  Venture,  a  Texas  joint  venture,  acting  by  and  through  Ruby  Lyle  and  Billie  Farrar,  its 
managing  partners  ("Lessor"),  and  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.,  an  Oklahoma  limited 
liability  company  ("Lessee")  (as  successor  by  merger  to  Chesapeake  Exploration  Limited 
Partnership  ("CELP")),  to  be  effective  as  of  December  X    ,  2008  (the  "Amendment  Date"). 

WHEREAS,  Lessor  and  CELP  previously  executed  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated 
July  21,  2006  (the  "Original  Lease")  covering  the  property  described  in  Exhibit  "A"  attached  to 
this  Second  Amendment  (the  "Lease  Premises"); 

WHEREAS,  Lessor  and  Lessee  also  executed  that  certain  Amendment  and  Extension  of 
Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  ("First  Amendment")  dated  April  22,  2008,  extending  the  primary 
term  for  one  additional  year  (the  Original  Lease,  as  modified  by  the  First  Amendment,  being 
referred  to  herein  as  the  "Lease"); 

WHEREAS,  it  is  contemplated  that  Lessee  will  purchase  from  Lessor  the  surface  of  an 
approximately  4.62  acre  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  as  more  particularly  described  on  Exhibit 
"B"  attached  to  this  Second  Amendment  (the  "Surface  Tract"); 

WHEREAS,  the  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises  not  included  within  the  Surface  Tract  are 
referred  to  herein  as  the  "Remaining  Tract"; 

WHEREAS,  Lessor  and  Lessee  have  agreed  to  amend  the  Lease  for  the  purpose  of 
abandoning  the  use  of  two  drill  sites  previously  approved  by  Lessor  pursuant  to  the  Lease  dated 
July  21,  2006,  as  provided  in  this  Second  Amendment; 

WHEREAS,  Lessor  and  Lessee  have  agreed  to  amend  the  Lease  for  the  purpose  of, 
among  other  things,  amending  all  surface  use  restrictions  in  Section  12  and  other  Sections  of  the 
Lease  which  may  have  otherwise  been  applicable  to  the  Surface  Tract,  all  as  provided  in  this 
Second  Amendment;  and 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of  the  mutual  covenants  and  agreements 
contained  in  this  Second  Amendment  and  in  the  Lease,  and  for  other  good  and  valuable 
consideration,  which  the  parties  acknowledge  receiving,  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  as  follows: 

1 .  Lessor  hereby  represents  and  warrants  to  Lessee  that  Lessor  is  currently  the  sole 
owner  and  holder  of  the  interest  of  lessor  under  the  Lease.  Lessee  hereby  represents  and 
warrants  to  Lessor  that  it  is  currently  the  sole  owner  and  holder  of  the  interest  of  lessee  under  the 
Lease. 

2.  Lessor  and  Lessee  have  agreed  that,  from  and  after  the  Amendment  Date,  Lessee 
shall  not  use  the  following  as  drill  sites  or  for  any  other  surface  use:  those  certain  two  (2) 
potential  drill  sites  previously  approved  by  Lessor  pursuant  to  the  Lease  dated  July  21,  2006; 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


1 


provided,  however,  that  this  provision  shall  not  prohibit,  restrict  or  in  any  way  affect  the  use  of 
the  Surface  Tract  as  a  drill  site. 

3.  Section  12  of  the  Lease  is  hereby  deleted  in  its  entirety  and  replaced  with  the 
following: 

"12.     Surface  Operations  Applicable  to  the  Remaining  Tract. 

a)  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  the  restrictions  and  other 
provisions  set  forth  in  this  Section  12  shall  not  affect  or  be  applicable  in  any  way 
to  the  Surface  Tract  or  any  of  Lessee's  or  its  affiliates*  operations  on  the  Surface 
Tract. 

b)  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  the  reasonable  value  of  any  actual 
damages  resulting  to:  (i)  any  portion  of  the  surface  of  the  Remaining  Tract  (but 
not  the  Surface  Tract)  and  (ii)  any  fences,  roads,  tanks  and  other  structures  and 
improvements,  livestock,  trees,  grass,  and  crops  located  on  the  Remaining  Tract 
(but  not  the  Surface  Tract)  caused  by  operations  hereunder,  and  agrees  to  restore 
the  surface  of  the  Remaining  Tract  (but  not  the  Surface  Tract)  to  as  near  its 
original  condition  as  may  be  reasonably  done  after  the  completion  of  each 
operation.  No  portion  of  the  Remaining  Tract  may  be  used  in  conjunction  with 
the  drilling  operation  on  the  Surface  Tract  without  the  prior  written  consent  of 
Lessor,  which  may  be  withheld  for  any  reason.  Any  salt  water  produced  from  the 
drilling  operations,  if  any,  will  be  removed  by  Lessee  from  the  Remaining  Tract. 
Water  from  Lessor's  creeks,  tanks  or  wells  located  on  the  Remaining  Tract  may 
not  be  used  by  Lessee  without  express  written  consent  of  Lessor  and  appropriate 
authorities. 

c)  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  a  plat  showing  access  routes  to  and 
from  locations  and  line  routes  has  been  previously  approved  by  Lessor  and 
Lessee, 

d)  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  except  for  easements  or 
other  rights  specifically  granted  by  Lessor  pursuant  to  separate  written 
documents,  Lessee  shall  have  no  right  to  use  the  surface  of  any  portion  of  the 
Remaining  Tract  other  than  as  shown  on  the  Plat  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  "C" 
(the  "Plat"),  which  Plat  is  hereby  approved  by  Lessor  and  Lessee." 

4.  The  Lease  is  amended  to  add  the  following  as  a  new  Section  22  to  the  Lease: 

"22.     Surface  Restrictions  Applicable  to  the  Surface  Tract. 

a)  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  the  restrictions  and  other 
provisions  set  forth  in  this  Section  22  shall  affect  and  be  applicable  only  to  the  Surface 
Tract  and  Lessee's  operations  on  the  Surface  Tract. 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


2 


b)  While  drilling  operations  are  being  conducted  on  the  Surface  Tract, 
Lessee  shall  fence  the  area  of  operations  as  required  by  the  City  of  Arlington  drilling 
ordinance  and  any  other  applicable  governmental  requirements.  After  completion  of  a 
well  on  the  Surface  Tract,  Lessee  shall  fence  all  tank  batteries,  separators,  and  other 
surface  equipment  located  on  the  Surface  Tract  and  shall  keep  gates  locked  except  when 
in  use,  all  as  required  by  the  City  of  Arlington  drilling  ordinance  and  any  other  applicable 
governmental  requirements.  Lessee  shall  plant  hedges  or  other  landscaping  on  the 
Surface  Tract  as  required  by  the  City  of  Arlington  drilling  ordinance  and  any  other 
applicable  governmental  requirements.  Lessee  shall  keep  all  surface  equipment  in  a  good 
state  of  repair  and  painted  as  often  as  is  necessary  to  maintain  a  good  appearance.  Lessee 
shall  remove  from  the  Surface  Tract  any  materials,  pipe,  or  equipment  which  are  not 
being  used  and  are  not  planned  to  be  used.  Lessee  shall  use  only  low  profile  pumping 
units  on  the  Surface  Tract.  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipelines  not  less  than  36  inches  below 
the  surface  of  the  Surface  Tract." 

5.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  except  as  specifically  set  forth  above  in 
the  new  Section  22  to  the  Lease,  (i)  Section  12  of  the  Lease  shall  not  be  applicable  in  any  way  to 
the  Surface  Tract,  (ii)  the  Lease  shall  in  no  way  restrict  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  and 
subsurface  of  the  Surface  Tract,  and  (iii)  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  pay  Lessor  any 
damages  or  other  amounts  in  connection  with  the  Surface  Tract  and  Lessee's  operations  thereon, 
,that  might  otherwise  be  payable  pursuant  to  Section  12  of  the  Lease.  Lessor  also  hereby  grants, 
assigns  and  conveys  to  Lessee  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  easement 
under  and  through  the  subsurface  of  the  Lease  Premises  deeper  than  five  hundred  feet  (500') 
below  the  surface  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or 
gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  either  the  Surface  Tract  or  tracts  other 
than  the  Lease  Premises  for  the  purpose  of  developing  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  in  and  under 
the  Lease  Premises  and/or  any  other  lands,  regardless  of  whether  or  not  such  other  lands  are 
pooled  with  the  Lease  Premises.  Such  subsurface  easement  shall  run  with  the  Lease  Premises, 
shall  be  binding  on  Lessor  and  Lessor's  successors  and  assigns,  and  shall  survive  any 
termination  or  expiration  of  the  Lease. 

6.  This  Second  Amendment  may  be  executed  by  facsimile  or  otherwise  in  multiple 
counterparts,  each  of  which  will,  for  all  purposes,  be  deemed  an  original,  but  which  together  will 
constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument. 

7.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  except  as  otherwise  specifically 
amended  by  this  Second  Amendment,  the  parties  hereby  ratify  the  Lease  and  agree  that  the  Lease 
remains  in  fall  force  and  effect.  Insofar  as  necessary,  Lessor  hereby  leases,  lets  and  demises  to 
Lessee  the  Lease  Premises  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  Lease  as  amended  by  this  Second 
Amendment. 

8.  All  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Second  Amendment  which  are  not  otherwise 
defined  have  the  same  definitions  as  set  forth  in  the  Lease. 

9.  Lessor  and/or  Lessee  may  record  either  a  copy  of  this  Second  Amendment  or  a 
memorandum  thereof  in  the  real  property  records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


3 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  have  executed  this  Second  Amendment  to  be 
effective  as  of  the  Amendment  Date. 


Lessor: 

1-20  Joint  Venture, 

a  Texas  joint  venture 


Ruby^Lyfe,  Managing  Partner 


By:  /^z--^s  y//Cs?-2-YM y 
Billie  Farrar,  Managing  Partner 


Lessee: 

Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C., 

an  Oklahoma  limited  liability  company 


By:  

Henry  J.  Hood,  Senior  Vice  President 
Land  &  Legal  and  General  Counsel 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


4 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  have  executed  this  Second  Amendment  to  be 
effective  as  of  the  Amendment  Date. 

Lessor: 

1-20  Joint  Venture, 

a  Texas  joint  venture 

By:  

Ruby  Lyle,  Managing  Partner 

By:  

Billie  Farrar,  Managing  Partner 

Lessee: 


Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C., 

an  Oklahoma  limited  liability  company 


Henry  J.  Hood,  Senior  Viee'President  A) 
Land  &  Legal  and  General  Counsel 


1002849_2 


4 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF   § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  December,  2008,  by 

Ruby  Lyle,  Managing  Partner  of  1-20  Joint  Venture,  a  Texas  joint  venture,  on  behalf  of  said  joint 
venture. 


[SEAL] 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  December,  2008,  by 

Billie  Farrar,  Managing  Partner  of  1-20  Joint  Venture,  a  Texas  joint  venture,  on  behalf  of  said 
joint  venture. 


[SEAL] 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF 


COUNTY  OF  ^^(iu^^— -  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  (tsf~  day  of  December,  2008,  by 
Henry  J.  Hood,  as  Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  &  Legal  and  General  Counsel  of  Chesapeake 
Operating,  Inc.,  general  partner  of  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.,  an  Oklahoma  limited 
liability  company,  on  behalf  of  said  limited  liability  company. 


Notary  Public,N5tate 
Printed  Name: 

My  commission  expires^ -X  ' 


.   

/  #  00020590  \ 
\  bXF.  12/19/08  = 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  J*U  day  of  December,  2008,  by 
Ruby  Lyle,  Managing  Partner  of  1-20  Joint  Venture,  a  Texas  joint  venture,  on  behalf  of  said  joint 


venture. 


ANN  BLOODWORTH 
600  W.  PARK  ROW 
ARLINGTON,  TX  76010 
NOTARY  F-U3L.C 
STATE  OF  TEXAS 
MVCCMM.  EXPIRES  3-3-2012 


[SEAL] 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF   § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the^4_  day  of  December,  2008,  by 
Billie  Farrar,  Managing  Partner  of  1-20  Joint  Venture,  a  Texas  joint  venture,  on  behalf  of  said 
joint  venture. 


[SE^iq 


ANN  BLOODWORTH 
600  W.  PARK  ROW 
ARLINGTON,  TX  76010 
NOTARY  PUBLIC 
STATE  OF  TEXAS 
MY  COMM.  EXPIRES  3-fl-20t2 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas 


STATE  OF   § 

COUNTY  OF    S 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  day  of  December,  2008,  by 

Henry  J.  Hood,  as  Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  &  Legal  and  General  Counsel  of  Chesapeake 
Operating,  Inc.,  general  partner  of  Chesapeake  Exploration,  L.L.C.,  an  Oklahoma  limited 
liability  company,  on  behalf  of  said  limited  liability  company. 


Notary  Public,  State  of_ 

Printed  Name:  

My  commission  expires; 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


5 


EXHIBIT  "A"  TO  SECOND  AMENDMENT 


DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  LEASE  PREMISES 


Wi,6W  aetea  of  imid,  tmm  or  less,  ly%  ta  fte  X  Q'Datud  Survey,  Abstract  No,  1 186,  Tarnmi  County, 
Texas  bej^       purticidarfy  4  Escribed  as  two©)  siepdile  in***,  fey  radcs  and  bounds  as  falloua: 

TRACT  1: 

Bcdn^atnstwpajwS  of  tod  fying  in  the  J.  0*D«iiel  siwvcy.  Abstractly.  1  186.  Tammi  County,  Texas, 
snd  being  the  same  laud  «  canned  tn  William  FL  Crai$  by  Odes*  I  Dray,  Trustee,  by  deed  recorded  in 
VokmM;  4S25,  page  598,  Etal  Sccaids,  TajEgjt  Cowity,  Texas,  said  ttaci  or  parcel  of  land  being  more 
particularly  described  by  moles  taid  bounds  as  follows 

BEfimMNC  si  a  point  k  the  South  R.O.W.  Use  of  Pleasant  Ridge  IW  (NewkJastatB  H^twayNa 
20),  said  Beginnljjj  PaEni  being  26*1.17  feet  West  tml  15.0  ftet  South  afthe&E.  Crancr  afsuid  J 
O'EteHBl  Survey,  and  said  Beginning  Point  befog  Jhe  N.E.  Comer  oftl*  said  WiflitimK.CraiB  tract  aad 
tbe  N.W.  coixcr  of  the  Paul  E,  Yarbnmgi,,  Jr.,  tras^ 

THENCE:  S  OQf  TO*  W,  aJang  the  E«rt  line  of  sad  Craiglract  wiii^onSt&ow^Haee(l3aiJd,ftitTOi^i 
tract,  n&mtttx  of  4,20b j0  feet,  &  point  far  earner; 

THINCE  S  W  Sfi'  W,  a  Oisiunce  of  55732  feet  io  point  for  comer; 

XmHCE  N  CO*  01*  E.  adisliuice  af  4,2)  10 'feel  to  the  Sowli &JX  %  £oe  ofarid  PkaumtRidga  Rottd* 
being  paint  for  eOEW-f; 

UDENCR  3  49*21'  E,  atong  the  SeatfeJtO. W.  tine  cfPkuant  Ridge  Rood,  sdistaoca  of  5*9,8 1  fetf  to 
PLACE  OP  BEGINNING  and  coming  54.9017  acres  of  load,  more  or  less. 

TRACT* 

Braeig  a  »Kl  Of  parcel  ef  tarsd  lying  in  tfus  j.  O'Djurid  survey,  Abstract  No_  1 1 86,  Tofmnt  County,  Tea  as, 
eid  beting  d»  same  tad  as  convoyed  to  Rota*  W,  buJwr,  Thuttta  «m  deals  tlBcribinB  a  23.5  acre 
traet  in  VqIhibe  4761,  Ptnge  Deed  Records,  Tammi  Coaflty,  T«*ns,  and  a  25  acre  tract  in  Volume 
4M1,  Pugg  140,  Bead  records,  Tarrant  Cenatty,,  Tews;  udd  (mess  or  parcels  of  loud  being  mors 
parti  euSajiy  described  by  n»etra  .end  boncds  as  follows: 

BEGINNING  at  u  point  to  *c  New  SomJi  ItO.W.  Hb  e  nf  Interstate  HigWay  No  .  20,  mid  in  the  moat 
Wcsicrly  East  line  of  said  Robert  W.  baker  trace  and  also  king  ia  tJie  West  Ike  of  (he  Richard  A.  Swaim 
trod;  said  Begiruuim  paJitl.  bring.  1 ,738  JO  feet  West  mid  178.09  ft*  Swrtk  of  Uw  N.E.  comer  of  ink!  J. 
GhDanM  SitrvcK 

S  CUm'  W,al«jfi  the  West  line  of  (he  Said  Jiiebflfti  a.  Swoim  trass,  adislnnoc  of 664 J2  fed  to 
Oib  S.W.  Cornarofsaid  Swmeb  Bet,  bciae  ptiEni  far  c«ni*t; 

TBEKCi  S  WS5 '  E,  akfflg  the  (itii;  of  said  Srmm  uact  a  distance  ofl  fssl  la  tius  S^B.  ««Jwr 
of  said  S  waira  tmct^  being  poisi  for  tomer; 

IWtC^  S  CO"  I  r  W.  a  disiunce  of  3,3  BO.O  fect  to  potal  far  bksw; 

THENCE  S  flD^^D"  W,  adistaa^  of  529.644  f«a  (0  poi^rt  for  aimer,  being  lhoS.f-1  comer  of liw  PmJ 

E/Vafftfoygh.Jr^tnsct; 

TH^CC  N  OfiW  along  Hie  East  line  of  soid  Ynrbrougli  Tr^,(  a  distance  of  4,l47ii4  feet  to  tlia^aw 
S«*Wh  R  O  W.  line  of  Interstate  Highway  He,  20,  bctog  point  for  cOmrr, 

THSNCE  South  eastoiy  along  Iks  new  Souih  line  of  Interstate  Highway  No.  2Sl  a  follows: 

S  77W  E,  a  (finance  of  143.35  fcet;  C^ap^to  OsmShg  Jf1c. 

S         E, «  distance  of  103,70  fest;  ™i ^ 

S  72BS7*  E,  a  distance  »f^40fe«i  Atlrt  Untf  ^L^fiT 

S  72*lt5,E,  adisdweeofJtA.SO  feet  to  the  Plocu  ofhe^rmineawicoaBiiBiatt  47jSKE3  aensoflgnd,  marc  or 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


EXHIBIT  "B"  TO  SECOND  AMENDMENT 


DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  SURFACE  TRACT 

BEING  a  4.631  acre  tract  of  land  located  in  the  J.  O'Daniel  Survey,  Abstract  No.  1186,  in  the  City  of 
Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  a  portion  of  a  called  54.0017  acre  tract  of  land  as  described  in  the 
Warranty  Deed  with  Vendor's  Lien  to  1-20,  a  joint  venture,  filed  for  record  in  Volume  5073,  Page  400, 
Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  said  4.631  acre  tract  of  land  being  more  particularly  described  by 
metes  and  bounds  as  follows: 

COMMENCING  5/8  inch  iron  rod  found  (controlling  monument)  on  the  south  right-of-way  line  of 
Bardin  Road,  a  120'  right-of-way  at  this  point,  being  the  northeast  corner  of  a  remainder  portion  of  said 
called  54.00 1 7  acre  tract  of  land,  same  being  the  northwest  corner  of  a  remainder  portion  of  a  called  54.25 
acre  tract  of  land  as  described  in  the  Warranty  Deed  to  Peyco  Family,  Ltd.,  a  Texas  limited  partnership, 
filed  for  record  in  Volume  10897,  Page  2138,  of  said  Deed  Records; 

THENCE  South  00  degrees  25  minutes  51  seconds  East,  departing  said  south  right-of-way  line,  and 
along  the  east  line  of  said  called  54.0017  acre  tract  of  land,  common  to  the  west  line  of  said  called  54.25 
acre  tract  of  land,  a  distance  of  1318.20  feet,  to  a  5/8  inch  capped  iron  rod  set  stamped  "Mycoskie 
Mclnnis"  for  the  POINT  OF  BEGINNING; 

THENCE  South  00  degrees  25  minutes  51  seconds  East,  continuing  along  said  common  line,  a  distance 
of  390.00  feet,  to  a  5/8  inch  capped  iron  rod  set  stamped  "Mycoskie  Mclnnis",  from  which  the  southeast 
corner  of  said  called  54.0017  acre  tract  of  land  bears  South  00  degrees  25  minutes  51  seconds  East,  a 
distance  of  984.89  feet,  said  southeast  corner  being  referenced  by  a  3/8  inch  iron  rod  found,  which  bears 
North  59  degrees  56  minutes  06  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  2.65  feet,  and  as  shown  on  the  right-of-way 
dedication  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  dated  November  22,  2002,  prepared  by  Goodwin  &  Marshall,  Inc., 
filed  for  record  in  Volume  16425,  Page  236,  of  said  Deed  Records; 

THENCE  South  89  degrees  37  minutes  05  seconds  West,  departing  said  common  line,  and  over  and 
across  said  called  54.0017  acre  tract  of  land,  a  distance  of  517.45  feet,  to  a  5/8  inch  capped  iron  rod  set 
stamped  "Mycoskie  Mclnnis"  for  the  southwest  comer  of  the  herein  described  tract  of  land,  from  which  a 
1/2  inch  pipe  found  (controlling  monument)  for  the  southeast  corner  of  a  called  90.564  acre  tract  of  land 
as  described  in  the  Special  Warranty  Deed  to  Arlington  Commerce  Center,  L.P.,  filed  for  record  in 
Volume  14868,  Page  150,  of  said  Deed  Records,  bears  South  02  degrees  16  minutes  42  seconds  West,  a 
distance  of  876.90  feet; 

THENCE  North  00  degrees  22  minutes  55  seconds  West,  continuing  over  and  across  said  called  54.0017 
acre  tract  of  land,  a  distance  of  390.00  feet,  to  a  5/8  inch  capped  iron  rod  set  stamped  "Mycoskie 
Mclnnis",  from  which  a  1/2  inch  capped  iron  rod  found  stamped  "RPLS  4838"  for  the  southeast  corner  of 
Lot  1,  Block  1,  Uzziel  Addition,  Section  One,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  according  to  the  plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  5292,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas, 
bears  North  02  degrees  21  minutes  48  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  1227.18  feet,  and  a  1/2  inch  pipe  found 
(controlling  monument)  for  the  northeast  corner  of  said  Arlington  Commerce  Center  tract  bears  North  03 
degrees  13  minutes  03  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  844.40  feet; 

THENCE  North  89  degrees  37  minutes  05  seconds  East,  continuing  over  and  across  said  called  54.0017 
acre  tract  of  land,  a  distance  of  5 17. 1 2  feet,  to  the  POINT  OF  BEGINNING  and  containing  4.63 1  acres 
(201,742  square  feet)  of  land,  more  or  less. 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


7 


EXHIBIT  "C"  TO  SECOND  AMENDMENT 


THE  PLAT 


Psyco  Family.  HQ 

1  U«)1M 

Parts»pttl» 

iSI.  IKK?/ & 33 

Ctltttl  51 Km 


l£Jf  w«.';-JW-^i[.i-|lfrJt..r<:;-.;M  i".:nita-Jir-r<:tH»  iv:tl, 

w:„  m  iH-ii  t  p  v—  i  * '.  rJtf  1 1  j  !-■  i  *■;  ■:■**'  iM>mi  iwS 
Win     nv.HHiiiii:  a'  :i  v  MKiui^flMiw.M 

turn-.**;  ■•mmmnam^*tr.mmmi  ok*  en-jane* 

ra*  »,***Kr'*«lt  (!■*;>.:*■. :-1.'.''.;Bt  fr-CK"*'  m.r'C ■  IT 
UCTm-tJI^iK'-HIKC-mirA'.'iH-^MMDO^VM'UtUMI 


us*:-;  i;.nHHi£f%HHie»^nnMM 

ta^m:M^:--Jtig*gni-u-itH^iLs<  H^aaMti 

n::*«M|tM{=ri^lK.*f*KMi»l^;-**r*toMIMI 

re-«ii!m:V:w:?i"jjii5*n.*.:;»7'iy« 


•.".m*'M  ■>■■  .■H:*«W4-1','--,BB 


HEIR  K 

lit"   1  IJiJ 

* 

* 

as  « 

I     A.J  ■ 

...» 


CHESAPEAKE  OPERATING,  INC. 
PROPOSED  SURFACE  LOCATION 
ACCESS  M< 

Has.  IH  - 

future  Wet  Is 
Mas.  1H  -  IS  uotftns 

J.  0" Daniels  Surv«»,  A- 1166 
Tarrant  enwity.  Texas 
C,H.  F**ttemal«i  •  Aa**oi«t»i ,  Irs. 

IMlNMi    «^ii|milll  timUlilll   Mtfilli1  »l  'I 

BnilH     !_*fu»t}»   ■**  Orisuu 


PLAT     (Subject  to  Survey} 


Second  Amendment  to  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 


8 


SENDERA  TITLE 
2936  WEST  7TH  ST 

FT  WORTH  TX  76107 

Submitter:  SENDERA  TITLE 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 

100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$52.00 


D208443824 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  MV 


