sossrrs0zd 


Electronically Recorded Tarrant County Texas 
Official Public Records 2008 Dec 05 02:00 PM D208446805 


Fee: $ 28.00 


a Mien lhozey) Submitter: SIMPLIFILE 4 Pages 


Suzanne Henderson 


IN THE PUBLIC RECORDS: YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR YOUR 
DRIVER'S LICENSE NUMBER. 


XTO REV PROD 88 (7-69) PAID UP (0417/0798 


OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE 


THIS AGREEMENT made this _7 day of__November_, 2008, between Ronald J. Ingram and Penelope A. Ingram, a married couple, 
as Lessor (whether one or more), whose address is: 7912 Bal Harbour Court, Fort Worth, Texas 76179 and XTO Energy Inc., whose address 
is: 810 Houston St, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, Lessee, WTNESSETH: 


agreements of Lessee hereinafter contained, does here ¥ grant, lease and let unto Lessee the land covered hereby urposes and with the 
ther or not similar to 


on said land necessary or useful in Lessee's operations in exploring, dnilling for, pfeducin , treating, storing an transporting minerals produced 
land covere hereby, herein called "said land,” is locafed in the ‘Ounty of 


Being 0.149 acres, more or less, out of the BBB & C. RR. Co. Survey, Abstract No. 221, and being Lot 13, Block A. Lake Cou 
Estates Addition to Tarrant Cou , Texas, according to the Plat recorded in Volume 388-194, fa ‘ ; rant 
Rounty, Texas and being more particularly described in a General Warranty Deed, dated April 28, 20 , from Patty S, MacDonald to 

Id J. Ingram, recorded thereof in Instrument No, 0205121845, Deed Records, Tarrant ‘ounty, Texas, and amendments thereof 
including streets, easements, and alleyways adjacent thereto, and any riparian rights, 


SEE ADDENDUM FOR ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 


This is a non-developmental Oil & Gas Lease, whereb Lessee, its successors or assigns, shal! not conduct a 
operations, as defined herein, on the surface of said lands. Howover Lessee shall have the right to pool or unitize said lande. 
or part thereof, with other lands to comprise an oil and/or gas development unit. 


This lease also covers and includes, in addition to that above described, all land, if any, Contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining the land above 
described and (a) owned or claimed by Lessor by limitation, prescription, possession, reversion, after-acquired title or unrecorded instrument or 
(6) as to which Lessor has a preference right of acquisition. ag) tpplemental instrument requested by Lessee for a 
more Complete or accurate Ggscription of said land. For the purpose of termining the amount of any bonus or other payment hereunder, said land 
sl mi contain 0, ; 
to be the true acreage thereof Lessor accepts the bonus as lump sum consideration for this lease and all rights and options hereunder. 


2. Unless sooner terminated or longer kept in force under other provisions hereof, this iease shall remain in force for a term of 
3__years from the date hereof, hereinafter called “primary term," and as long thereafter as. operations, as hereinafter defined, are conducted 
upon sad land with no cessation for more than ninety (90) consecutive days. 


Ff As royalty, Lessee covenants and agrees: (a) To deliver to the credit of Lessor, in the pipe line to which Lessee May connect its wells, the equat 
posted Market price of such 4/4 part of such oi at the wells as of the day 
lo bear _1/4_ of the cost of treating ol to render it marketable pipe line oil; 
bi f the amount realized by Lessee, compuied at the mouth of the well, or (2) when us 

et value, at the mouth of the well, of 1/4 Of such gas and casinghead gas; i To pay 

essee's 


Lessee covenants and agrees to use reasonable dil lence to produce, utilize, or market the minerals capable of being | produced from said wells, 
but in the exercise of such diligence, Lessee shall not obligated to install or furnish facilities other than well facilities and ordinal 


ach anniversary of the expiration of said ninety da Wiad if upon such anniversary this lease is bein continued in force solely 
ef ph. Each such payment of tender shall be made to the Parlies who at the tne of payment would be 


4. Lessee is hereby granted the right, at its option, to 21 oF unitiZe any land covered by this lease with any other land covered by this lease, 
and/or with any other iand, lease, or leases, as to any or all minerals or horizons, so as to establish units containing not more than 80 surface acres, 
plus 10% acreage tolerance; provided, however, uni may be established as to aly, one or more horizons, or existing units may be enlarged as to 
any ane or more horizons, so as to contain not more than 640 surface acres plus 10% acreage tolerance, ff limited to one or more of the following: 
{) gas, other than casinghead gas, @) liquid hydrocarbons (condensate) which are not liquids in the subsurface reservoir, (3) minerals produced 
rom wells classified as gas wells by t 


, drilling, or already drilled, any such unit may be established or 
b f din the public office in which ts inser oa cera it shall beco! 

by executing an instrument identifying such un ing it for record in the public office in wi is lease is recorded. Such unit sha me 
effective asof the date provided fo iWesaid instrument ormstruments but if said instrument or instruments make no such Provision, then such unit 


royalty, operations conducted upon said land under this lease. There shall be allocated to the land covered by this lease within each su unit (or 
Meath be he unit if this lease covers separate tracts within the unit) that proportion of the total production of unitized 
minerais from the unit, after deducting any used in lease or unit Operations, which the number of surface acres in such land (or in each such 


he owner of the reversionary estate of any term royalty or mineral estate agrees that the accrual of royatties pursuant to this paragraph or of 
shutin royalties from a weil on the unit shal Satisfy ha front of term reauring production of oil or gas. The formation of any unit hereunder 


limitation, any shut-in royalty whi n partie 
partes owning interests I Bat not covered by this lease. Neither shall it impair the rig) ht of Lessee to release as provided in paragraph 5 hereof, 


are released as to lands within the unit. At any time while this lease Is in force Lessee may dissolve any unit established hereunder by filing for 
Fecord in the public office where this lease is recorded a declaration to that effect, if at that time there 


original forming thereof by filing an appropriate instrument of record in the public office in which the Pooled acreage is located. Subject to the 

rovisions of this paragraph 4, a unit once established hereunder shall remain in force $0 long as any lease subject thereto shall remain in force. If 
his lease now or hereafter covers separate tracts, no pooling or unitization of royalty interests as between any such separate tracts is intended 
or shall be implied or result merely the inclusion of such Separate tracts within this lease but Lessee shall neve less have the right to 
pool or unitize as provided in this paragraph 4 with consequent allocation of production as herein provided. As used in this paragraph , the 
word s poparate tract” Mean any tract with royalty ownership differing, now or hereafter, either as to Parties or amounts, from that as to any other 
part of leased premises. 


5. Lessee may at any time and from time to time execute and deliver to Lessor Or file for record a release or releases of this lease as to any 
Part or all of said land or of any mineral or horizon thereunder, and thereby be relieved of all obligations, as to the released acreage or interest. 


6. Whenever used in this lease the word "operations" shall mean operations for and/or any of the following: preparing the drilisite location 
and/or access road, drilling, testing, completing, feworking, recompleting, deepening, sidetracking, plugging back or repairing of a well in search 
for or in an endeavor to obtain production of oil, gas, sulphur or other minerals, excavating a mine, production of oll, gas, sulphur or other mineral, 
whether or not in paying quantities, 


7. Lessee shail have the use, free from royalty, of water, other than from Lessor's water wells, and of oil and 98S produced from said land in ail 
Operations hereunder. Lessee shall have the aght'at any time to remove all machinery and fixtures placed on said land, including the right to draw 
and remove casing. No well shail be drilled nearer than 200 feet to the house or barn now on said land without the consent of the Lessor. Lessee 
shall pay for damages caused by its operations to growing crops and timber on said land. 


8. The rights and estate of ai party hereto may be assigned from time to time in whole or in part and as to any mineral or horizon. All of the 


nge | royalties, or other moneys, or the ri 
be binding upon the then record owner of this lease until shety (60) days after there has been fumished to such record owner at his or its principal 
place of bu: hei i chy 
ce 


s r record and which evidence such change or division, and of such court 
records and proceedings, transcripts, or other documents as shall be necessary in the opinion of such record’ owner to establish the validity of 
such change or division. if any such change in ownership occurs by reason of the death of the owner, Lessee May, nevertheless pay or tender 
such royalties, or other moneys, or part thereof, to the credit of the decedent in a depository bank provided for above. 


L 9. In ing sett aaa Lessee has not fomplied with allits obligations hereunder, both e ress and ry a) een anal notify 
essee in settin specifi in what respects Lessee has breached this contract. Lessee all then have sixty IF PeCei 
of said notice within with to meet or commence i moet all or any part of the breaches all Lessor. The i id hot 4 


precedent 
after service of such n on Lessee. Neither the service of said notice nor the doing of any acts by Lessee aimed to meet all on any of 
alleged breaches shall be deemed an admission or presumption that Lessee has failed to perform all its obligations hereunder. If this lease is 
canceled for any cause, it shall nevertheless remain in force and effect as to (1) sufficient round each well as to which there are 

i emmental regulations, in no event less that forty acres), such acreage 
to be designated by Lessee as Nearly as practicable in the forn of a square centered at the well, or in such shape as then existing spacing rules 
require; and (2) any part of said land included in a pooled unit on which there are operations. Lessee shall also have such easements on said land 
as are necessary fo operations on the acreage so retained and shall not be required to move or remove any existing surface facilities necessary 
or Convenient for current operations. 


reby warrants and agrees to defend title to said land against the claims of all persons whomsoever. Lessor’s rights and 
shall be charged pnmarily with any mortgages, taxes or other liens, or interest and other 'geS ON Said land, but Lessor 
agrees that Lessee shall have the right at any time to Pay or reduce same for Lessor, either before or after maturity, and be subrogated to the 
rights of the holder thereof and to deduct amounts so paid from royalties or other payments ble or which may become payable to Lessor 
and/or assigns under this lease. If this lease covers a less interest in the oil, gas, sulphur, or other minerals in all or any part of said land than the 
moneve a ening fon wy pat te ¥ Mon tne lone oo vars toa ‘than uch full int ‘all be paid in the proporti which the interest 
mot acctuil an as to covers less sl it , only in roportion leres' 
in, Oy thé bee inlerost covered by this lease {whether 
or net owned by Lessor) shail be paid out of the royalty herein provided. This lease shall be binding upon each party who executes i without 
fegard to whether it is executed by all those named erein as Lessor, 


he 
les control of Lessee, the primary term hereof shall be extended until the first anniversary date hereof pocurting ninety (90) or more 
days following the removal of such delaying cause, and this lease may be extended thereafter by operations as if such delay had not occurred. 


12, Lessor that this lease covers and includes any and all of Lessor’s rights in and to any existing well(s) and/or wellbore(s) an said 
land, other than ext water wells, and for all purposes of this lease the re-entry and use by Lessee of any existing well and/or wellbore shall be 
deemed the same as fi driting of a new well, 

13. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this lease, at the option of Lessee, which may be exercised by Lessee 
giving notice to Lessor, a well which has been drilled and Lessee intends to frac shalt be deemed a well Capable of producing in paying 
quantities and the date such well is shut-in shall be when the drilling operations are completed. 


14. As a result of land development in the vicinity of said land, govemmental rules or ordinances regarding well sites, and/or surface 


restrictions as may be set forth in t! é inity, { t a mi 
and Lessee may encounter difficulty securing surface location(s) for drilling, reworking or other Operations. Therefore, since drilling, 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument is executed on the date first above written. 


LESSOR(S Le LESSOR(S) 
: ye 
aC 7 boas da laa 
v 
BY: Ronald J. Ingram 
STATE OF Texas_  } 
SS 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT FOR INDIVIDUAL) 


A Movericd maya 
eon tho “] aay of Novemty 


, 2008 by Ronald J. Ingram[2-singte-nra in. 
goneslope Tnoyors, 


Signature » 


Notary"Public 
Printed © & 2\ 


ADDENOUM 


THE PROVISIONS OF ADDENDUM SUPERSEDE COMPLETELY ANY PROVISIONS TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN TH 
LEASE TO WHICH THIS ADDENDUM IS ATTACHED. e 


15. Minerals Covered. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this lease covers only oil and gas. The term “oil and 
gas preans oil, gas, and other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons and their constituent elements produced through a 
well bore. 

16. Gas Royalty. (a) Royaities on oil, gas and other Substances produced and saved hereunder shall be paid by Lessee 
to Lessor as follows (a) for oil and other liquid hydrocarbons Separated at Lessee’s separator facilities, the roya 


then Prevailing in the same field, then in the nearest field in which there is such 4 prevailing price) for production of 
similar grade and gravity; and (b) for gas (including casinghead gas) and all other substances covered hereby, the 
royalty shail be twenty five percent (25%) of the proceeds realized by Lessee from the sale thereof, computed at the 
point of sale, less a Proportionate part of ad valorem taxes and Production, severance or other excise taxes, and less 
the permitted unaffiliated third party deductions described below; provided that Lessee shall have the continuing tight 


Products. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, except for nonaffiliated third-party charges incurred or paid 
by Lessee, in no event shall any of Lessor's royalty bear any part of the costs of production or any post-production 
costs, including costs of lifting, gathering, dehydration, compression, Separation, delivery, transportation, manufacture, 
Processing, treating or marketing, or for construction, Operation or depreciation of any plant or other facility or 
equipment for processing or treating oil or gas produced from the leased premises or lands pooled therewith. In no 
event shall Lessor receive a price greater than or less than Lessee in sales to nonaffiliates. 


(c) As used herein, “affiliate” means (i) a corporation, joint venture, Partnership or other entity that owns more than ten 
percent (10%) of the Outstanding voting interest of Lessee or in which Lessee owns more than ten percent (10%) of 
the outstanding voting interest: or (ii) a corporation, joint venture, partnership or other entity in which, together with 
Lessee, more than ten percent (10%) of the outstanding voting interest of both the Lessee and the other corporation, 
joint venture, Partnership or other entity is owned or controlied by the same person or group of persons. 


17. Shut-in Royalty. If at the end of the primary term or any time thereafter one or more wells on the leased premises or 
lands pooled therewith are capable of producing oil or gas or other substances covered hereby In paying quantities, 


consecutive years. 


18. No Surface Operations. Itis hereby agreed and understood that there shall be no drilling activities on the surface of 
the leased premises without the prior written permission from the surface owner of the applicable portion of the leased 
premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this waiver of surface shall not be construed as a waiver of the rights of 
Lessee to utilize the subsurface of the leased Premises under this lease, and Lessee shall have the right to exploit, 
explore for, develop and produce oil, gas and other covered minerals under this lease from wells from surface 
locations off the leased premises, Including, but not limited to, directional or horizontal drilling activity which comes 
under the surface of the leased premises. This drilling surface waiver does not apply to any surface rights associated 
with instruments other than this lease, 


19, Vertical Pugh. Upon the expiration of the primary term of this Lease, upon the expiration of any extension or renewal 
of the primary term, or after cessation of operations as provided herein, whichever occurs last, this Lease shall 


terminate as to ail rights lying below one hundred feet (100') below the Stratigraphic equivalent of the deepest 
formation drilled. 


20. No Warranties. Lessor makes no warranty of any kind with respect to title to the Land. By acceptance of this Lease, 
Lessee acknowledges that it has been given every opportunity to investigate and has conducted sufficient 


might arise by common law or by statute, including but not limited to Section 5.023 of the Texas Property Code (or its 
successors), are excluded. If Lessor owns an interest in the Land less than the entire fee simple estate, then the 


mortgage, or other lien or 


Pare 


21. 


22, 


23. 


AND/OR LIABILITIES ASSUMED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS LEASE SHALL BE WITHOUT LIMITS AND 
WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CAUSE OR CAUSES THEREOF (EXCLUDING PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS), 
STRICT LIABILITY OR THE NEGLIGENCE OF ANY PARTY OR PARTIES (INCLUDING THE NEGLIGENCE OF THE 
INDEMNIFIED PARTY), WHETHER SUCH NEGLIGENCE BE SOLE, JOINT, CONCURRENT, ACTIVE OR PASSIVE. 


Noise levels associated with Lessee's Operations related to the drilling, completion and reworking of wells shall comply 
with the City of Fort Worth Drilling Ordinance, as amended. 


Lessors lender or mortgagor, this limited Power-of-attorney to the Lessee shail in all fespects terminate and 
automatically be revoked. Lessee shall bear any and all costs associated with obtaining any such tien subordination 
agreement or similar agreement. 


Waiver of Claims as to Gas Lease Committee and Acknowledgement of Independent Legal Advice. Lessor 
acknowledges that the terms of this Lease, the amount of royalty and bonus paid hereunder, and other terms 
negotiated with Lessee with respect to this Lease (the “Negotiated Terms”) were obtained as a result of negotiations 


Nora Donavan, Margaret Hamlin, Jim Usher, Cecilia Vaidez, Phil Fox, Craig Zieres, Dave Newell, Ginger Mayronne, 


Specifically including any attomeys engaged by the GLCGLTF Gas Lease Committee to facilitate the solicitation of bids 
and negotiation of lease terms (the “GLCGLTF Releases”), of and from any and all claims, demands, obligations, 
losses, causes of action, costs, expenses, attorney’s fees, and liabilities of any nature whatsoever, whether based on 
contract, tort, statute or other legal or equitable theory of recovery, whether known or unknown, which Lessor has, has 
had, or claims to have against the GLCGLTF Releases, which arise out of or relate to (a) the Negotiated Terms, (b) the 


connection with this Lease; (b) Lessor, in making the decision to enter into this Lease, has not relied upon any 
Statements or representations, if any, of the GLCGLTF Releases regarding the terms of this Lease; and (c) Lessor’s 
decision to enter into this Lease is the independent and voluntary decision of Lessor after being given the Opportunity to 
have said Lease reviewed by counsel of Lessors choosing. 


Executed on the date first written above, 


Lessor: 


By: 


y 
i 


a j LESSOR: 


LA —— or Lenloa ld oa 
RONALD}. INGRAM PENELOPE'A. INGRAM 


