Electronically  Recorded       Tarrant  County  Texas 
Official  Public  Records  2008  Dec  08  08:47  AM 

Fee:  $  24.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


D208447445 

3  Pages 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  £K3HT5:H^(N#PIJRAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKEANY  OR  ALL 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/1 7»7)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  6th  ri^nf  Member  .  2008,  between  David  L  Dennie  and  Gale  E.  Dennie,  husband  and  wffej Lessor 
^^^^ZS^.  2700  Tally  Ho  Drive,  Hurst,  Texas  76054,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  ,s:  810  Houston  St., 
Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  ana  is  described  as  follows: 

0  379  acres  more  or  less,  out  of  the  W.  T,  Jones  Survey,  Abstract  No.  865,  and  being  Lot  13,  in  Block  2  of  Fox  Glenn  Addition, 
an  Addit  on  to?he  City  of  Hurst,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Revised  Map  or  Plat  thereof  recorded  tn^ Cab.net  A 
SHde  976  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  those  same  lands  more  partfcularly  descnbed  in  a  Warranty  Deed 
With  Vendor's  Lien  dated  May  26, 1998  from  Prudential  Residential  Services  Ujf^T^^SS  S  Records 
□artnershio  to  David  L  Dennie  and  Gale  E.  Dennie,  husband  and  wife,  recorded  in  Document  No.  D199145267,  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County "Texas  ana"  amendments  thereof,  including  streets,  easements  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  npar.an 
rights. 

SEE  ATTACHED  EXHIBIT  "A"  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 

references  to  surface  operations  contained  within  the  prepnnted  portion  of  this  lease. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  ^ 
desJrSS*(!^ 

o  i  -snnnfir  terminated  or  lonaer  keot  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of  3  .years 
frc^he  dl^  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  sad*  land 

with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3  As  rovaltv  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may 

ph.  «i  ^%rar{  ofSoH  produced I  and l  savedby  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 

rSl^o  beaT  25%     tte  ccsnhraSng  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  b  To  pay  Lessor  w  gas  and  castnghead  Sasprriucjdf™ 
fi^  m  wnSftold  bv  Lessee  25%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off 

To lessor  onl Sl^^ineralsmined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  efflie^nd  a  value  at  the  weff  on mine >  at 
iJS^ele^.  exoeS  that on. Shur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  $1.00  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the .expiration  of  the 
^SS.  hS?fSi  Sffime  or  times Kr^erthere  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been 
ffll^  Sr^We  of  Srffi  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations 

w^^S  OTTduded or rSSi  Sndfor  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shuMn,  and  thereafter  thfs  lease  may  be  conbnued  in  force  as  if  no  shuhn  had 
XS^Sri ^T^^oVenants  and aarees use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from 

toSWw  1^^^  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to 

uSse?  If  at an! ?ti^eori Kes after  toe  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shuHn  for  a  penod  of  ninety  consecutive  days  and 
durin?sucr^ ftiKere  a>e  no  opaSions  on  said  land,  then  at  o/before  the  expiration  of  said  ninetydaypenod,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tenderby 
drafto LesSee T  as  rovaltv  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments 
n?t2XTat  or  b§Se\hl  W&  ea^anrKeraary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  his  lease  is  being 
^Sin  fcSce^eTv  bv tSsoS cfmVw^^om  of  Ws  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  extender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time 
ofSavrS vK  btSm3torS^fS^£i  whicKwouTd  be  paid  under  this'lease  if  the  weHs  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in 
suchffi ^directed IbyL^^^ite  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  ofshut-in 
rSvlf a Siw^ethS  Lessee  Davs  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  enhtledTo  receive  same.  Lessee  mav 
HffiamSSS  pay  or  fender  such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jomtlyto  such 

oarites v SaSvto  each Mn ^Srx^h  S  rSpeSve  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect  Any  payment  hereunder. may  be  made 
bTche^o^ra^ L^dep^sSn  titemail  ordefiveTed  to  the  party  entitled [to  receive  paymenfortoa  depository  bank  provided  for aboveon 
or  before the last  datefor  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of 

as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4  Lessee  is  hereby  qranted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pod  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  byttiis  lease, 
and/or  v^U^  other^d  Jea%  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  aflminerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containingnot  more  thanSO^rfaceacr^ 
plus 10% acreage Tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons  or  ^^}%^^lf^f^J9. 
™nTnr3Smas  to  contain  not  more  than  640  surface  acres  rrfus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the  following. 
?l7qa?ofre^^  which  are  not  Bqiicls  in  tine  subsurface  reservoir,  (^erals  produced 
torn  ^sdaSfied  as i  gaTweis  by  ^conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  anyof ^those  herein  Pe^ed  ^.fo  al ^he 
tim»  Shlfehpd  or  after  entaraement  are  permitted  or  required  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or  operation  ot  a  well  at  a 
n^Jtoc^^  well  to  Derailing,  or  already  drilled L  su£  unit  may  be  r^shed  or 
S^r^to^form  to  the  size  Dermitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  umt 
bYexec^np^^^  fifing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Such  unit  shall i  become 
KSso^ ^eXfpro^dSfc?  i^said  instrument  prTnstruments  but  if  saTd  hstrumert  V^^fm^rS1 fSsle^t  ml 
shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may '  beewarased I  by  lessee  at  any 
time  aSfrom  tirnVto time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established !  ertter  onsa  d 
land  SontiTe  oortion  ofsaid land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  andefective 
Hl^rp^^ffs°eSe  e^™  Uc^Mhere  maybe  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  n  lands  within  the  unrt  whitf ^arenot  effe^yety 
SedorSed  Anv  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unft  zed  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of 
ESv  oDeratiore'cmdudedl s^  la^tnder  this  fease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or 

slplrat?  trac^ 'Sn  ft^u^t  if  ffls  le^e  covers  separate  tracts  witNn i  the  unit)  ^at  proportion  of  the  total  produ-^on  ^unrti^ 
minerals  from  ftie  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (orin  each  such 
seplrate  S)Xerecl  by  this  lease  wrthin  the  unit  bears  to  the  totaTnumber  of  surface  acres  tn  the  unrt,  and  the  P^uchon  so  al 'f^ed^  be 
c^dCTedfor  anpuposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  otrt  of^u(*oal to  be foe  entire 
^S^durltiz&in^als  from  The  land  to  wNch  ailocaterfin  tie  same  manner  as  thougfi  produced  therefrom  under  the ^gms  of  ^  leasa 
fhVovS  of  the^elSSary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  me  accrua  of  royalties  pursuart Ao, ttjs Jf  ragraph  or  of 
shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  P«xluctipn  of  oil  or  gas.  ^^^flSl^y^S^^SSZ 
which  iiXleslarrfnrtc^  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring,  any  interest  unoV  tris  ease  fc^OT  ™jhout 

KSon,  anVshut-in  royalty  wNch  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  befween  parties  owning  interests a'n^nd.  .^ed Iby ths .Ifaseand 
oaS Town nq  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  thislease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  nght  of  Lessee  to  releasees  provided  in  paragraph 5  herear, 
ffi  ffi  Lessef^ay not  so  release  as  tolands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals ^^fm^J^^ 
X^eased1?to larxfe  wUhin  the  unit  At  any  time  while  tNs  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  urat  established  hereunderb> ^ffling for 
rSordinths  rSbHco^XerethJslease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from 
unrt  ^  reduced  or  enlarged  by'Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the 


oridnal  forminq  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  Instrument  of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the 
pravSore ^fthis  paragraph  4,aurftoncee^bfishe<l  hereunder  shall  remain  inform 

this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended 
or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  nghtto 
pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the 
words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other 
part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search 
for  or  In  an  endeavor  to  obtain  reduction  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  frorn  said  tend  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200 feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shafextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  notiimited  to.  the  location  and  drflGng  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shal 


records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recordowner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied.  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  wfthin  whfch  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  nonce  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 )  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  pnmarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1 )  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  simBar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

1 3.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  snail  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  form  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restncted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

1 5.  The  consideration  paid  for  this  lease  shall  also  constitute  consideration  for  an  option  to  the  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns, 
to  extend  the  initial  three  (3)  year  primary  term  for  a  second  two  (2)  year  term.  This  option  may  be  exercised  anytime  during  the  initial 
primary  term  by  delivery  of  payment  of  an  additional  bonus  of  $20.000.00  per  net  mineral  acre.  The  bonus  payment  shall  constitute 
notice  to  Lessor  of  exercise  of  the  option.  In  the  event  Lessee  elects  to  exercise  this  option  and  makes  the  bonus  payment  provided  for 
above,  then  all  terms  of  this  lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  if  the  original  primary  term  was  five  (5)  years. 

F,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above/written. 


LESSOR:  David  L  Dennle 
STATE  OF  fag? 
COUNTY  OF  TcrrW 


} 

}  ss. 

.} 


LESSOR  Gale  E.  Dennle 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the        day  of    S^Heshhr-  ,  2008  by 

 David  L.  Dennie  and  Gale  E.  Dennie.  husband  and  wife  . 


Seal: 


LANCE  KAY  BRUUN  JR- 

•ffil  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 


January  19,  2011 


Signature 


itary/Public 
Printed  £—g/i<*-^  ^^t^a  "j*- 


EXHIBIT  "A" 

This  Exhibit  "A"  is  attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  the  ^  day  of  Srfj&fljf  -  2008,  by  and  between 
David  L.  Dennie  and  Gale  E.  Dennie,  husband  and  wife,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  2700  Tally  Ho  Drive,  Hurst,  Texas  76054,  and 
XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St.,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee, 

THIS  IS  A  NON-DEVELOPMENT  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE,  WHEREBY  LESSEE,  ITS  SUCCESSORS  OR  ASSIGNS  SHALL  NOT 
CONDUCT  AI^  OPERATION,  ENTER  UPON  OR  IN  ANY  WAY  DISTURB  THE  SURFACE  OF  THE  LANDS  DESCRIBED  HEREIN. 
HOWEVER,  LESSEE  SI^L  HAVE  THE  RIGHT  TO  POOL  OR  UNITIZE  SAID  LANDS,  OR  ANY  PART  THEREOF ,  WTTH OTHER ^LANDS 
TO  COMPRISE  AN  OIL  AND/OR  GAS  DEVELOPMENT  UNIT.  IT  IS  THE  INTENTION  6f  LESSOR  TO  ALLOW  LESSEE  TO  EXPLORE  FOR 
OH.  AND/OR  GAS  WITHOUT  USING  THE  SURFACE  OF  LESSORS  LAND  FOR  ANY  OPERATIONS.  THIS  CLAUSE  SHALL  TAKE 
F^fecEDENCE  OVER ANY "REFERENCES  TO  SURFACE  OPERATIONS  CONTAINED  WITHIN  THE  PREPRINTED  PORTION  OF  THIS 
LEASE. 

Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  free  and  clear  of  all  costs  and  expenses  whatsoever  including  expenses  of  separation,  compression,  marketing,  transportation, 
treating  or  manufacturing  oil  or  gas  produced  hereunder,  save  and  except  ad  valorem  and  production  taxes.  Provided,  however,  Lessor's  royalty  shall 
be  subject  proportionately  to  any  charges  incurred  by  Lessee  for  compressing,  treating,  processing,  gathering,  transporting  and  marketing  under 
Lessee's  gas  purchase  contract  with  a  nonaffiliated  third  party  covering  the  sale  of  production  from  the  lands  included  in  this  lease. 


