Electronically  Recorded 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Official  Public  Records 


2008  Dec  10  04:01  PM 


D208451790 


Fee:  $  28.00 


Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


4  Pages 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTlALFTTRlGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  10**  day  of  November,  2008,  between  William  Hawkins  and  Jimmie  Hawkins,  husband  and  wife,  as  Lessor 
(whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  7644  Skylake  Drive,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76179  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston 
St,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1 .  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  Tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  tor,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to 
those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface 
disposal  of  salt  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures 
on  said  land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring  drilling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and  transporting  minerals  produced 
from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  (and  covered  hereby,  nerein  called  "said  land,"  is  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

0.309  acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  Alexander,  Crane,  Harris  &  Brooks  Survey,  Abstract  No.  56,  being  Lot  58,  Block  11,  Lake  Country  Estates,  an 
Addition  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388-67,  Page  5,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and 
being  those  same  lands  more  particularly  described  in  a  Special  Warranty  Deed  dated  July  11, 2006  from  Guaranty  Bank,  ffk/a  Guaranty  Federal 
Bank,  F.S.B.  to  William  Hawkins  and  recorded  thereof  in  Document  No.  D206218473,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  amendments 
thereof,  including  streets,  easements*  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 


This  is  a  non-developmental  Oil  &  Gas  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any 
operations,  as  defined  herein,  on  the  surface  of  said  lands.  However,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  said  lands, 
or  part  thereof,  with  other  lands  to  comprise  an  oil  and/or  gas  development  unit 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or 
(b)  as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  ascription  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land 
shall  be  deemed  to  contain  0.309  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed 
to  be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
3     years  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  ''primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted 

upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the 
equal  1/4  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 
posted  market  price  of  such  1/4  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest,  in  either  case, 
to  bear  1/4  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  said  land 
(1 )  when  sold  by  Lessee.  1/4  of  The  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in 
the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  1/4  of  such  gas  and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay 
Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  ana  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's 
election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1.00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or 
at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable 
of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being 
conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred. 
Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells, 
but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence.  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of 
flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If,  at 
any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time 
there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period.  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of 
Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or 
before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely 
by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be 
entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed 
by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time 
that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other 
method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately 
to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of 
Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last 
date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee  s  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in 
whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by 
each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease, 
and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres, 
plus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to 
any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  640  surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the  following: 
(1 )  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced 
from  wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the 
time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilfing  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a 
regular  location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled,  any  such  unit  may  be  established  or 
enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  unit 
by  executing  an  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Such  unit  shall  become 
effective  as  of  the  date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit 
shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any 
time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said 
land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective 
for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty  (  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively 
pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of 
royalty  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or 
to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized 
minerals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such 
separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be 
considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire 
production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated^  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease. 
The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of 
shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit  nereunder 
which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without 
limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  whicn  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and 
parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof, 
except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases 
are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for 
record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from 
such  unit.  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the 


XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17rt)7)B 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


SEE  ADDENDUM  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 


original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  poc4ed  acreage  is  larated^gsctto&» 
provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  onceestablished  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in jorceJf 
this  lease  nowor  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  ismtended 
or  shall  be  implied  or  result  meretyfrom  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  thenght  to 
pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the 
words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other 
part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used 
and/or  access  road,  dril 
for  or  in  an  endeavor  to 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royatty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  weHs,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  indudirw  the  nght  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shalfextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof ,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  notlimited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 

plaCe  OT   '  '  '  ■  !     -  -  :  .  >i  i<k  nl»n>->nn  «-  rliinfljv.    r-i  nwu4        IrYLi  fJtliar  nnnimlc  rtr  ril  d\i 

certified 

such  charaeor  divisiorTff  any  such'changeTn  ownen&ipocc^  oftne  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 

such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  wrth  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service,  of  sad  npfice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 )  sufficient  acreage  around  each  weB  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  yens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/a  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  Interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  fhfe  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1 )  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 Z  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  well  bore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  mis  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restncted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  otheneases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

I N  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 
LESSORS) 


BY:  William  Hawkins  BY:  Jimmie  Hawkins 

STATE  OF       Texas  } 

}  ss.  (ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 

COUNTY  OF  Tarrant_  }  , 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  \  day  of  v4cm€ ^kEPT  ,  2008,  by  William  Hawkins  and  Jimmie 
Hawkins,  husband  and  wife. 


ROBERT  A.  SPENCE 
Notary  Pubfc,  State  of  Ibas 
My  Commission  Expires 

September  11, 2011 


Signature 

Notary  PufcHic 


Notary 

Printed     ^oHEjfcT   f\  -  ^E^CEL 


ADDENDUM 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  DATED  THE  10™  DAY  OF  NOVEMBER, 
2008,  BETWEEN,  WILLIAM  HAWKINS  AND  JIMMIE  HAWKINS,  HUSBAND  AND  WIFE,  AS  LESSOR,  AND  XTO  ENERGY  INC.,  AS 
LESSEE,  COVERING  0.309  ACRES  OF  LAND,  MORE  OR  LESS,  OUT  OF  THE  ALEXANDER,  CRANE,  HARRIS  &  BROOKS 
SURVEY,  ABSTRACT  NO.  56,  IN  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS. 

THE  PROVISIONS  OF  ADDENDUM  SUPERSEDE  COMPLETELY  ANY  PROVISIONS  TO  THE  CONTRARY  CONTAINED  IN  THE 
LEASE  TO  WHICH  THIS  ADDENDUM  IS  ATTACHED. 


15.  Minerals  Covered.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and 
gas"  means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a 
well  bore. 

16.  Gas  Royalty,  (a)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee 
to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall 
be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then 
prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar 
grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall 
be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the  point  of  sale, 
less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  and  less  the  permitted 
unaffiliated  third  party  deductions  described  below;  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase 
such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there 
is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price) 
pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which 
Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder. 

(b)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing 
plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the 
higher  of  the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid 
based  upon  the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said 
products.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  except  for  nonaffiliated  third-party  charges  incurred  or  paid 
by  Lessee,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production  costs, 
including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  transportation,  manufacture, 
processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or 
equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  In  no 
event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  greater  than  or  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffiliates. 

(c)  As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten 
percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee, 
more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint 
venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

17.  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but 
such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has 
been  drilled  but  not  fraced  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90) 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall 
pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said 
90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  date  the  first  payment  is  due;  provided,  however,  that 
if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or 
wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period 
next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is 
expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to 
continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  one  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive 
years. 

18.  No  Surface  Operations.  It  is  hereby  agreed  and  understood  that  there  shall  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of 
the  leased  premises  without  the  prior  written  permission  from  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased 
premises.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  this  waiver  of  surface  shall  not  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the  rights  of 
Lessee  to  utilize  the  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises  under  this  lease,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  exploit, 
explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil,  gas  and  other  covered  minerals  under  this  lease  from  wells  from  surface  locations 
off  the  leased  premises,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  activity  which  comes  under  the 
surface  of  the  leased  premises.  This  drilling  surface  waiver  does  not  apply  to  any  surface  rights  associated  with 
instruments  other  than  this  lease. 

19.  Vertical  Pugh.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of 
the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate 
as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  formation  drilled. 

20.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease, 
Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  every  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation 
to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by 
common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successors),  are 
excluded.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  (including 
shut-in  royalties)  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  Lessor  will  use  all  its  reasonable  efforts  to 
assist  Lessee  to  subordinate  any  rights  of  a  mortgage  holder  to  perfect  the  Lessee's  rights  under  this  lease;  provided, 
however,  any  necessary  subordination  shall  be  obtained  by  Lessee  at  Lessee's  sole  expense.  In  the  event  Lessee  is 
unable  to  obtain  a  subordination  agreement.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  or 


interest  and  other  charges  on  the  Land  superior  to  this  Lease,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  Lessee  will  have  the 
option  of  applying  the  royalties  accruing  to  Lessor  toward  payment  of  same  and  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof. 

21.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with  their 
officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs, 
successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of  action  of  every 
nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  including,  but  not  limited 
to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out 
of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or 
operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this 
Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable 
for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses, 
damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death),  costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which 
recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any  theory  including  tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  including  attorney  fees 
and  other  legal  expenses,  including  those  related  to  environmental  hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the 
drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those 
arising  from  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased 
premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased 
premises;  anc|  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this 
Lease  or  any  other  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors, 
subcontractors,  guests,  invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an 
interest  herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same 
manner  provided  above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described 
above.  EXCEPT  AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS 
AND/OR  LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND 
WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING  CONDITIONS), 
STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE 
INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT,  CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 


22.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  comply 
with  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance,  as  amended. 

23.  Limited  Power  of  Attorney  to  Obtain  Subordination  Agreement.  By  the  execution  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  does 
hereby  appoint  and  designate  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  as  its  attorneys-in-fact  solely  for  the  limited  purpose 
of  allowing  Lessee  to  contact  Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor  (if  any)  on  behalf  of  Lessor  to  obtain  a  lien  subordination 
agreement  or  other  similar  document  for  purposes  of  subordinating  any  mortgage  on  the  leased  premises  to  Lessee's 
interests  in  this  lease.  Lessee  will  mail  a  copy  of  the  executed  and  recorded  lien  subordination  agreement  or  similar 
agreement  when  finalized.  When  Lessee  has  finalized  its  lien  subordination  agreement  or  similar  agreement  with 
Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor,  this  limited  power-of-attorney  to  the  Lessee  shall  in  all  respects  terminate  and 
automatically  be  revoked.  Lessee  shall  bear  any  and  all  costs  associated  with  obtaining  any  such  lien  subordination 
agreement  or  similar  agreement. 

24.  Waiver  of  Claims  as  to  Gas  Lease  Committee  and  Acknowledgement  of  Independent  Legal  Advice.  Lessor 
acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  the  amount  of  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  other  terms 
negotiated  with  Lessee  with  respect  to  this  Lease  (the  "Negotiated  Terms")  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations 
between  Lessee  and  a  group  known  as  the  Greater  Lake  Country  Gas  Leasing  Task  Force  ("GLCGLTF"),  which 
consisted  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers,  including  Brad  Shaw,  Carl  Wilson,  Dick  Deatrick,  Dennis  Shingleton, 
Nora  Donavan,  Margaret  Hamlin,  Jim  Usher,  Cecilia  Valdez,  Phil  Fox,  Craig  Zieres,  Dave  Newell,  Ginger  Mayronne, 
Robert  Fife,  Fred  Villarreal  (the  "GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee").  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  of  the  GLCGLTF  in 
negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms,  Lessor,  individually  and  on  behalf  of  Lessor's  agents,  representatives, 
family  members,  predecessors,  successors,  heirs  and  assigns,  hereby  releases  and  forever  discharges  GLCGLTF,  the 
GLCGLTF,  and  any  of  GLCGLTF's  or  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee's  members,  agents,  and  representatives, 
specifically  including  any  attorneys  engaged  by  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee  to  facilitate  the  solicitation  of  bids 
and  negotiation  of  lease  terms  (the  "GLCGLTF  Releases"),  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations, 
losses,  causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on 
contract,  tort,  statute  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown,  which  Lessor  has,  has 
had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  GLCGLTF  Releases,  which  arise  out  of  or  relate  to  (a)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (b)  the 
negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (c)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms. 
Lessor  further  acknowledges  and  represents  that  (a)  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  have  not  acted  as  Lessor's  agent  in 
connection  with  this  Lease;  (b)  Lessor,  in  making  the  decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease,  has  not  relied  upon  any 
statements  or  representations,  if  any,  of  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  regarding  the  terms  of  this  Lease;  and  (c)  Lessor's 
decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease  is  the  independent  and  voluntary  decision  of  Lessor  after  being  given  the  opportunity  to 
have  said  Lease  reviewed  by  counsel  of  Lessor's  choosing. 

Executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


Lessor: 


WILLIAM  HAWKINS 


