Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Dec  11  11:27  AM  a 

D208452573 

Fee:  $  28.00 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDb^^V^i^n .  o;  «  NATURAL  PER^j«AY  FuferffflE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PA©  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  6  day  of  November.  2008,  between  William  J.  Adley  and  Catherine  Adley,  husband  and  wife.  Lessor 
[whether  one  oVmore),  whose  addriss  is:  8956  Random  Road,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76179  and  XTO  Enerfly  Inc.,  whose  address  .s:  810  Houston 
St,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1  i  P^nr  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
aar Jmente Vk  LeSee  hire nafte  contained  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  Tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
5333  r&ht  oflX^Sffig  Sg an ^o^erating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whe£er ^or  no simiter  to 
fhSe  menfioned^  to  make  surveys  on  said  fand,  lay  pipe  lines,  estabhsh  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface 
SSosal  of  salt  water  SnK  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures 
^M^^iiS^^^M^Skm  in  exploring,  drilling  for.  producing,  Seating  storing  ana*  '^m^&f^^ 
from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  coveredhereby  ."herein  called  "said  land,  ts  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  ana  is  described  as  follows: 

0.440  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  Alexander,  Crane,  Harris  &  Brooks  Survey  Abstract  No-  56,  and  being  Lot ,  1, .Block 1, 
Lake  Countrv  Estates  Addition  an  Addition  n  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388-67,  rage 
SPIat  RecoTdsT^  described  n  a  Warranty  Deed  With  Vendor's  Lien  dated  October  2, 2007 

from  JeromVN'  N^y  b^ing  one  and  thV  same  wreonas  Jerrv  L.  Nancy,  and  wife,  Susan  J.  Nancy,  to  WlillamJ L  Adley -and I  wife 
Catherine  Adley  "recorded  thereof  in  Document  No.  D207380719,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  amendments  thereof, 
including  streets,  easements,  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

SEE  ATTACHED  ADDENDUM  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 

This  is  a  non-developmental  Oil  &  Gas  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any 
operations*  as  defined  herein  surface  of  said  fands.  However,  Lessee  shall  have  the  rightto  pool  or  unitize  said  lands, 

or  part  thereof,  with  other  lands  to  comprise  an  oil  and/or  gas  development  unit 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or 
(b)  as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a 
more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder  said  land 
shall  be  deemed  to  contain  0.440  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  trad  shall  be  deemed  to 
be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  nghts  and  options  hereunder. 

2  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kepi  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  terrn  of 
3     years  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  ''primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted 

upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3  As  royalty  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
1/4  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 
posted  market  price  of  such  1*4  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest  in  either  case, 
to  bear  1/4  ofthe  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  on;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casmghead  gas  produced I  from  said  land 
(1 )  whensold  by  Lessee.  1/4  ofthe  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in 
the  manufacture  of  gasolineor  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  1/4  of  such  gas  and  casmghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay 
Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one-tentri lerffier  in  kind  or  value  at  the  weH  or  mine  at  Lessee  s 
election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  pnmary  term  or 
at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable 
of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being 
conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred. 
Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells, 
but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of 
flow  lines  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If,  at 
any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  dunng  such  time 
there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period.  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of 
Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or 
before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely 
by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be 
entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed 
by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time 
that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other 
method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately 
to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect.  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of 
Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last 
date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessees  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in 
whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  resf  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by 
each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease, 
and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres, 
plus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to 
any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  640  surface  acres  plus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the  following: 
{1 )  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced 
from  wells  classified  as  gas  wels  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the 
time  established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a 
regular  location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled,  any  such  unit  may  be  established  or 
enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  unit 
by  executing  an  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Such  unit  shall  become 
effective  as  ofthe  date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  rf  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit 
shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any 
time  and  from  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said 
land  or  on  the  portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective 
for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively 
pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of 
royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or 
to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized 
minerals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  m  each  such 
separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be 
considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire 
production  of  unifeedminerals  from  the  fend  to  which  allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease. 
The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of 
shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or.gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit,  hereunder 
which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  Onduding,  without 
limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  whicti  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  be&reen  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and 
parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  nght  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  Paraph  5  hereof, 
except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  fands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  affpooled  leases 
are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereundeijbyfi^g for 
record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being ^P^u«d  from 
such  unit  Anyunit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the 


is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from  such  unit.  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its 
etectior iff any Time .and  torn  time  to  time  after  the  originating  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  ins^ment  of  record  in  the  pubic  office  in 
S  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  ffiis  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  esteb  ished  hereunder  sMmnjwen 
tong  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unrtEaton  of j royaKy 
Sterests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely Jtom  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts ^rthin 
SS  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  proyrfed  in  this  paragraph  4  ^o^gKgjjgoafmdi 
production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  fract  with  royalty  ownership  diffenng,  now  or 
hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  ^^^^^^J^S^ 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite ^location 
and/or  access  road,  doling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  bat*  or  repairing  of  a  well search 
for  or  in  anendeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil!  gas.  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  frorr i  said  tend  in 
at  operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land  i£.rcht  to 
draw  and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor. 
Lessee  shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shalfextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  the'rne|revshu^^!^^' 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  otter  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  ho^ower  effected 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  droinish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  noOmited  to  the  location  and  dnlfing  of  weds  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  hereof  of  or  to.  Lessee,  its  successors  or ^ssrans uw 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  orttienght  to  receive  the  sarro.howsoe^ 

be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  recordj owner  at  his  or  rts 
principal  place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  oramals 
or  dufc certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  property  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  a™  of  such 
court  records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  ttie  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the 
validity  of  such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay 
or  tender  such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9  |n  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied.  Lessor  shall 
notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after 
receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice 


w.      aHeged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumptjc.    .... 

lease  is  canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shaB  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  wel  as  to  which  there  are 
operations  to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres), 
such  acreage  to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  we  I,  or  in  such  shape  as  then 
exisfinq  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such 
easements  on  said  land  as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing 
surface  facilities  necessary  or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  toLessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  AH  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease 
(whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shaB  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it 
without  regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1  If  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurnnq  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 2  Lessor  agrees  that  this  tease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  weilbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  exiting  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  weft  which  has  been  dnlled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or 
surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  In  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may 
be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since 
drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  lantfor  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any 
such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this 
lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other 
operations  under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land. 
Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this 
lease,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 

LESSOR(S) 


BY:  Catherine  Adley 


BY:  William  J.  Ad  ley 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  } 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  C  day  of  Ac  joiner  2008  by  William  J.  Adley  and  Catherine 
Adley,  husband  and  wife 


}  ss. 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


NICHOLAS  i.  MCCOOl 
Notary  Public  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 

Ftbruory  22, 2012 


Signature 


Printed 


My  commission  expfflST 


Notary  Public 


ADDENDUM 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  DATED  THE  JJAY  OF 

NOVEMBER  2008,  BETWEEN  William  J.  Adley  and  Catherine  Adley,  husband  and  wife,  AS  LESSORS,  AND  XTO  ENERGY  INC., 
AS  LESSEE,  COVERING  0.440  ACRES  OF  LAND,  MORE  OR  LESS,  OUT  OF  THE  Alexander,  Crane,  Harris  &  Brooks  SURVEY, 
A-56,  IN  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS. 

THE  PROVISIONS  OF  ADDENDUM  SUPERSEDE  COMPLETELY  ANY  PROVISIONS  TO  THE  CONTRARY  CONTAINED  IN  THE 
LEASE  TO  WHICH  THIS  ADDENDUM  IS  ATTACHED. 

15.  Minerals  Covered.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and 
gas"  means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a 
well  bore. 

16.  Gas  Royalty,  (a)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee 
to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty 
shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or 
to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price 
then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of 
similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the 
royalty  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at  the 
point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  and  less 
the  permitted  unaffiliated  third  party  deductions  described  below;  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right 
to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same 
field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as 
the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder. 

(b)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing 
plant  in  which  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the 
higher  of  the  proceeds  received  or  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other 
substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid 
based  upon  the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said 
products.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  except  for  nonaffiliated  third-party  charges  incurred  or  paid 
by  Lessee,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any  post-production 
costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  transportation,  manufacture, 
processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or 
equipment  for  processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  In  no 
event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  greater  than  or  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffi Hates. 

(c)  As  used  herein,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten 
percent  (1 0%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (1 0%)  of 
the  outstanding  voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with 
Lessee,  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation, 
joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

17.  Shut-in  Royalty.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities, 
but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that 
has  been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90) 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall 
pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before  the  end  of  said 
90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  date  the  first  payment  is  due;  provided,  however, 
that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another 
well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the 
90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary 
herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term.  Lessee  shall  not  have  the 
right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  for  more  than  one  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2) 
consecutive  years. 

18.  No  Surface  Operations.  It  is  hereby  agreed  and  understood  that  there  shall  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of 
the  leased  premises  without  the  prior  written  permission  from  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased 
premises.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  this  waiver  of  surface  shall  not  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the  rights  of 
Lessee  to  utilize  the  subsurface  of  the  teased  premises  under  this  lease,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  exploit, 
explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil,  gas  and  other  covered  minerals  under  this  lease  from  wells  from  surface 
locations  off  the  leased  premises,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  activity  which  comes 
under  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises.  This  drilling  surface  waiver  does  not  apply  to  any  surface  rights  associated 
with  instruments  other  than  this  lease. 

19.  Vertical  Pugh.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal 
of  the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall 
terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest 
formation  drilled. 

20.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease, 
Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  every  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient 
investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  All  warranties  that 
might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its 
successors),  are  excluded.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the 
royalties  (including  shut-in  royalties)  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by 
this  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  Lessor  will  use  all  its 
reasonable  efforts  to  assist  Lessee  to  subordinate  any  rights  of  a  mortgage  holder  to  perfect  the  Lessee's  rights  under 
this  lease;  provided,  however,  any  necessary  subordination  shall  be  obtained  by  Lessee  at  Lessee's  sole  expense,  in 
the  event  Lessee  is  unable  to  obtain  a  subordination  agreement.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax, 
mortgage,  or  other  lien  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  the  Land  superior  to  this  Lease,  and  in  the  event  Lessee  does 
so,  Lessee  will  have  the  option  of  applying  the  royalties  accruing  to  Lessor  toward  payment  of  same  and  Lessee  shall 
be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof. 


21  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with 
their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  Invitees,  and  their 
respective  heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions 
and  causes  of  action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of 
damages  Is  sought,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities 
of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the  operations  of 
or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or 
be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent 
or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate, 
indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses, 
damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal  injury  (including  death),  costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for 
which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  under  any  theory  Including  tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  liability, 
including  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses,  Including  those  related  to  environmental  hazards  on  or 
under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  failure  to 
comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  In  any  way  related  to  Lessee's  operations 
or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site; 
those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that  may 
arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other 
act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors, 
guests,  invitees  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest 
herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the 
same  manner  provided  above  In  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents 
as  described  above.  EXCEPT  AS  OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY 
OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR  LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT 
LIMITS  AND  WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING 
CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING  THE 
NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE  INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT, 
CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 

22.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  comply 
with  the  City  of  Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance,  as  amended. 

23.  Limited  Power  of  Attorney  to  Obtain  Subordination  Agreement.  By  the  execution  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  does 
hereby  appoint  and  designate  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  as  its  attorneys-in-fact  solely  for  the  limited 
purpose  of  allowing  Lessee  to  contact  Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor  (if  any)  on  behalf  of  Lessor  to  obtain  a  lien 
subordination  agreement  or  other  similar  document  for  purposes  of  subordinating  any  mortgage  on  the  leased 
premises  to  Lessee's  interests  in  this  lease.  Lessee  will  mail  a  copy  of  the  executed  and  recorded  lien  subordination 
agreement  or  similar  agreement  when  finalized.  When  Lessee  has  finalized  its  lien  subordination  agreement  or  similar 
agreement  with  Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor,  this  limited  power-of-attomey  to  the  Lessee  shall  in  all  respects 
terminate  and  automatically  be  revoked.  Lessee  shall  bear  any  and  all  costs  associated  with  obtaining  any  such  lien 
subordination  agreement  or  similar  agreement. 

24.  Waiver  of  Claims  as  to  Gas  Lease  Committee  and  Acknowledgement  of  Independent  Legal  Advice.  Lessor 
acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  the  amount  of  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  other  terms 
negotiated  with  Lessee  with  respect  to  this  Lease  (the  "Negotiated  Terms")  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations 
between  Lessee  and  a  group  known  as  the  Greater  Lake  Country  Gas  Leasing  Task  Force  ("GLCGLTF"),  which 
consisted  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers,  including  Brad  Shaw,  Carl  Wilson,  Dick  Deatrick,  Dennis  Shingleton, 
Nora  Donavan,  Margaret  Hamlin,  Jim  Usher,  Cecilia  Valdez,  Phil  Fox,  Craig  Zieres,  Dave  Newell,  Ginger  Mayronne, 
Robert  Fife,  Fred  Villarreal  (the  "GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee").  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  of  the  GLCGLTF  in 
negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms,  Lessor,  individually  and  on  behalf  of  Lessor's  agents,  representatives, 
family  members,  predecessors,  successors,  heirs  and  assigns,  hereby  releases  and  forever  discharges  GLCGLTF, 
the  GLCGLTF,  and  any  of  GLCGLTF's  or  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee's  members,  agents,  and 
representatives,  specifically  including  any  attorneys  engaged  by  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee  to  facilitate  the 
solicitation  of  bids  and  negotiation  of  lease  terms  (the  "GLCGLTF  Releases"),  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands, 
obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever, 
whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statute  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown, 
which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  GLCGLTF  Releases,  which  arise  out  of  or  relate  to  (a)  the 
Negotiated  Terms,  (b)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (c)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within 
the  Negotiated  Terms.  Lessor  further  acknowledges  and  represents  that  (a)  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  have  not  acted 
as  Lessor's  agent  in  connection  with  this  Lease;  (b)  Lessor,  in  making  the  decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease,  has  not 
relied  upon  any  statements  or  representations,  if  any,  of  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  regarding  the  terms  of  this  Lease; 
and  (c)  Lessor's  decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease  is  the  independent  and  voluntary  decision  of  Lessor  after  being  given 
the  opportunity  to  have  said  Lease  reviewed  by  counsel  of  Lessor's  choosing. 

Executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


