MOD  PRODUCKRS  88  URB/REV.  PAID  UP  LEASE  (Thornbridge)  Tract  No. 


NO  SURFACE  USE  WITH  POOLING  PROVISION 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE 
FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS: 
YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

SUBSURFACE  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  ("Lease")  made  this  7  day  of  Scipi  £.f^Wr  >  200$, 

between  Kathryn  A.  Crispin,  an  unmarried  woman,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  8212  Hallmark  Dr,  North  Richland  Hills,  Texas  76X80  and 
DDJET  Limited  LLP,  as  Lessee,  whose  address  is  13465  Midway  Road,  Suite  400,  Dallas,  Texas  75244-5106,  WITNESSETH: 

L  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  no/100  Dollars  and  Other  Valuable  Consideration  ($10.00  &  O.V.C.)  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided  and  of 

the  agreements  of  Lessee  herein  contained  hereby,  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and 
mining  tor  and  producing  oil  and  gas,  the  following  described  land  in  Tarrant  County.  Texas,  (herein  referred  to  as  the  "Lease  Premises"  or  the  "Land")  to-wit 


See  attached  Exhibit  "A"  for  Land  Description 


This  Lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  strips  and  gores,  streets,  easements,  highways  and  alleyways,  and  other  land  and  interest  in  land  owned  or 
claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  Land,  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request 
any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  reasonably  necessary  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  Lease  Premises.  Furthermore,  Lessor  authorizes 
Lessee  to  complete  the  description  of  the  Lease  Premises  by  inserting,  as  appropriate,  the  applicable  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  in  the  description  set  forth 
in  Exhibit  "A,"  attached  hereto.  In  the  event  Lessor  owns  any  additional  acreage  than  that  for  which  bonus  was  originally  paid,  Lessee  shall  pay  additional  bonus  at  a  rate 
per  acre  not  less  than  the  rate  per  acre  on  which  bonus  was  originally  paid  when  this  Lease  was  acquired.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in 
royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  specified  on  Exhibit  "A"  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through 
a  well  bore.  "Oil"  includes  all  condensate,  distillate  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore.  "Gas"  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and 
other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  Expressly  excluded  from  this  Lease  are  lignite,  coal,  sulfur  and  other  like  minerals. 

2.  Without  reference  to  the  commencement,  prosecution  or  cessation  at  any  time  of  drilling  or  other  development  operations,  and/or  to  the  discovery,  development 
or  cessation  at  any  time  of  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  and  without  further  payments  than  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  notwithstanding  anything  else 
herein  contained  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  Three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof  (called  "Primary  Term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other 
substance  covered  hereby  is  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  said  Land  ot  land  pooled  therewith  hereunder,  or  as  long  as  this  Lease  is  continued  in  effect,  as  otherwise 
provided  herein. 

3.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  are:  (a)  on  oil,  25.00%  of  that  produced  and  saved  from  said  Land ,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of 
Lessor  into  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells  may  be  connected;  provided  that  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  purchase  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession,  paying  the  market 
price  therefore  prevailing  for  the  field  where  produced  on  the  date  of  purchase,  and  Lessee  may  sell  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession  and  pay  Lessor  the  price  received  by 
Lessee  for  such  oil  computed  at  the  well;  and  (b)  on  gas,  including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substance,  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  or  used  off  the  Lease 
Premises  or  for  the  extraction  of  gasoline  or  other  product  therefrom,  the  market  value  at  the  well  of  25.00%  of  the  gas  so  sold  or  used,  provided  that  on  gas  sold  by  Lessee 
the  market  value  shall  not  exceed  the  amount  received  by  Lessee  for  such  gas  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  and  on  gas  sold  at  the  well  the  royalty  shall  be  25.00%  of 
the  amount  realized  by  1  .essee  from  such  sale.  If  the  price  of  any  mineral  or  substance  upon  which  royalty  is  payable  hereunder  is  regulated  by  any  governmental  agency, 
the  market  value  or  market  price  of  such  mineral  or  substance  for  the  purpose  of  computing  royalty  hereunder  shall  not  be  in  excess  of  the  price  which  Lessee  may  receive 
and  retain.  Lessee  shall  have  free  from  royalty  or  other  payment  the  use  of  water,  other  than  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  tanks,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  Lease 
Premises  in  all  operations  which  Lessee  may  conduct  hereunder,  including  water  injection  and  secondary  recovery  operations,  and  the  royalty  on  oil  and  gas  shall  be 
computed  after  deducting  any  so  used.  If  lessee  drills  a  well  on  said  Land  or  on  land  pooled  therewith,  which  well  is  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  but  such  well  is  not 
being  produced  and  this  Lease  is  not  being  maintained  otherwise  as  provided  herein,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  whether  it  be  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term,  (unless 
released  by  Lessee)  and  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  that  oil  and  gas  is  being  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises  covered  by  this  Lease  when  Lessee  shall  pay  or 
tender  (or  make  a  bona  fide  attempt  to  pay  or  tender)  as  shut-in  royalty  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  such  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  royalty  hereunder  if  the 
well  was  producing,  or  deposit  to  their  credit  in   LVd^    f<f\a  Bank  at    IxlOQ    \r^,->   tW^g.    flU  J  ,  (V%  lG\t}Q 
(which  bank  as  agent  or  depository  and  its  successors  are  royalty  owlier  or  owners'  agent,  and  shall  continue  as  depository  for  all  such  sums  which  Lessee  may  pay 
hereunder  regardless  of  changes  in  ownership  or  royalties)  the  sum  of  Twenty-Five  and  no/100  Dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  for  each  calendar  month,  or  portion  thereafter 
during  which  said  well  is  situated  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  on  land  pooled  therewith,  and  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained,  or  this  Lease  is  not  released  by  Lessee  as 
to  the  land  on  which  or  the  horizon,  zone  or  formation  in  which  the  well  is  completed.  The  first  payment  of  such  sum  shall  be  made  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each 
calendar  month  after  expiration  of  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date  the  lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained  for  all  accruals  to  such  date,  and  thereafter  on  or  before  the  first  day 
of  each  third  calendar  month  for  all  accruals  to  each  such  date  to  Lessor's  designated  depository  bank  or,  if  a  depository  is  not  designated  above,  then  mailed  on  or  before 
the  due  date  of  payment  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto  at  Lessor's  address  set  forth  above  or  to  the  last  known  address  provided  in  writing  to  Lessee  by  Lessor 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  withhold  and  accumulate  such  payments  payable  to  Lessor  until  the  first  of  the  calendar  month 
following  the  accumulation  of  Twenty-Five  and  no/100  Dollars  ($25.00)  when  payment  shall  be  made  as  above  provided.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein, 
it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term.  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in 
royalty  for  more  than  a  single  period  of  up  to  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

4.  The  cash  down  payment  is  consideration  for  this  Lease  according  to  its  terms  and  shall  not  be  allocated  as  rental  for  a  period.  Lessee  may  at  any  time,  and  from 
time  to  time,  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor,  or  to  the  depository  bank,  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  Lease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  said  Land  or  of  any  mineral 
or  subsurface  interval  or  any  depths  thereunder  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  released  land,  mineral,  horizon,  zone  or  formation.  If  this  Lease  is 
released  as  to  all  minerals,  horizons,  zones  and  formations  under  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  the  shut-in  royalty  and  other  payments  computed  in  accordance  therewith 
shall  thereupon  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  the  acreage  released  bears  to  the  acreage  which  was  covered  by  this  Lease  immediately  prior  to  such  release. 

5.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  is  hereby  given  the  right  and  power  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term  while  this  Lease  is  in  effect  to  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises  as 
to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  with  an}'  other  land  covered  by  this  Lease,  and/or  any  other  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  immediate  vicinity  thereof,  when  in 
Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  properly  to  explore,  or  to  develop  and  operate  the  Lease  Premises  in  compliance  with  the  spacing  rules  of 
the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in 
and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises;  provided,  however,  that  the  entire  Lease  Premises  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be  included  in  any  unit  created 
pursuant  to  the  pooling  authority  granted  herein.  Units  pooled  for  oil  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  40  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  of  10%  thereof;  and  units  pooled 
for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  160  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  of  10%  thereof,  provided  that  should  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction 
prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by 
governmental  regulations.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  stated  herein,  a  unit  for  a  horizontal  well  may  include  (i)  the  amount  of  acreage  allowed  for  obtaining 
a  permit  to  drill  a  well  under  the  spacing  and  density  provisions  in  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellbore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the 
tables  in  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater  than  40  acres),  or  (ii)  the  amount  of  acreage  allowed  for  obtaining  a  full  production  allowable  under 
the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellbore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater 
than  40  acres).  Lessee  may  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises  or  any  portion  thereof  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any  one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any  one  or 
more  strata.  Units  fbTmed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  units  as  to  any  other  stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform 
as  to  area  with  gas  units.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  pool  this  Lease  or  portions  thereof  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for 
record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  an  instrument  describing  and  designating  the  pooled  acreage  as  a  pooled  unit;  the 
unit  shall  become  effective  as  provided  in  said  instruments,  or  if  said  instrument  makes  no  such  provision,  it  shall  become  effective  upon  the  date  it  is  filed  for  record.  Each 
unit  shall  be  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  the  unit  is  likewise  effective  as  to  all  other  owners  of  surface, 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  SSMod/UiWNSU  100207    Thornbridge  Page  lof5  Initial 


mineral,  royalty  or  other  rights  in  land  included  in  such  unit.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling  option  as  to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  before  or  after 
commencing  operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  or  wells  or  mine  for  other  mineral  on  the  Lease  Premises,  and  the  pooled  unit  may  include,  but  is  not  required 
to  include,  land  or  leases  upon  which  a  well  or  mine  capable  of  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities  has  theretofore  been  completed  or  upon  which 
operations  for  drilling  of  a  well  or  mine  for  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  have  theretofore  been  commenced.  Operations  for  drilling  on,  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral 
from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  regardless  of  whether  such  operations  for  drilling  were  commenced  or  such  production 
was  secured  before  or  after  the  execution  of  this  Lease  or  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit,  shall  be  considered  as  operations  for  drilling  on  or  production  of  oil, 
gas  or  other  mineral  from  The  Lease  Premises  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  or  mine  be  located  on  the  Lease  Premises,  and  the  entire  acreage  constituting  such  unit  or 
units,  as  to  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  as  herein  provided,  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalties  on  production  from  the  pooled 
unit,  as  if  the  same  were  included  in  this  Lease;  provided  that  if  after  creation  of  a  pooled  unit,  a  well  or  mine  drilled  on  the  unit  area,  other  than  on  the  land  covered  hereby 
and  included  in  the  unit,  which  well  is  not  classified  as  the  type  of  well  for  which  the  unit  was  created  (oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  as  the  case  may  be),  such  well  or  mine  shall 
be  considered  a  dry  hole  for  purposes  of  applying  the  additional  drilling  and  reworking  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  hereof.  If  an  oil  well  on  an  oil  unit,  which  includes  all  or 
a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  a  gas  well,  or  if  a  gas  well  on  a  gas  unit,  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  an  oil  well, 
the  date  of  such  reclassification  shall  be  considered  as  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  for  purposes  of  applying  the  additional  drilling  and  reworking  provisions  of 
Paragraph  6  hereof  as  to  all  leases  any  part  of  which  are  included  in  the  unit  other  than  the  leased  premises  on  which  the  well  is  located.  For  the  purpose  of  computing 
royalties  to  which  owners  of  royalties  and  payments  out  of  production  and  each  of  them  shall  be  entitled  on  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  from  each  pooled  unit, 
there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  included  in  said  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  a  pro  rata 
portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on  the  unit.  Such  allocation  shall  be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is, 
there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts 
within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  (or  in  each  separate 
tract)  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words,  -^separate  tract-"  mean  any  tract  with 
royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  Lease  Premises.  Royalties  hereunder  shall  be  computed 
on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  so  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were 
from  such  land.  Production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  a  gas 
pooled  unit  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit. 
Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Ussee  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by  instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the 
county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  at  any  time  after  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  cessation  of  production  on  said  unit  ^Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary 
herein,  it  is  expressly  provided  that  all  leases  acquired  by  Lessee  which  are  located  within  the  Thornbridge  development  (i.e.,  the  Thornbridge  subdivision  Phase  1,  II,  III, 
IV,  V.  East  and  South)  will  be  pooled  or  unitized  within  the  same  pool  or  unit  created  by  Lessee  and  each  such  lease  will  receive  its  proportionate  part  of  the  unit 
production  by  calculating  royalty  payments  as  described  above. 

6.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  120  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall 
remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and 
if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled 
therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith, 
the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  120  days  after  the 
cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  Lessee  continues  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of 
any  additional  well  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or 
other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  660'  feet  of  and  draining  the  Lease  Premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances. 

7.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns:  but  no 
change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not 
limited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement  of  production;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  forty-five  (45) 
days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by  registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments 
evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  Lease 
or  of  a  portion  thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder,  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

8.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts 
relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  such  notice  k  which  to  commence  compliance  with  the 
obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  Lease. 

9.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein.  All 
warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are  excluded.  By 
acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title 
to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

1 0.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or 
on  land  pooled  therewith  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  therefrom  or  from  land  pooled  therewith  by  reason  of  scarcity  or  of  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use 
equipment  or  material,  or  by  operation  of  force  majeure,  any  federal  or  state  Jaw  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  Lease  shall  be 
extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  from 
the  Lease  Premises  or  land  pooled  therewith,  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  Lease  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding. 

1 1 .  Surface  Use  Restriction:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein,  Lessee  agrees  that  it  shall  have  no  right  to  enter  upon,  cross  over,  place 
any  building  or  structure  upon,  conduct  operations  upon,  or  otherwise  use  the  surface  of  the  Lease  Premises  to  exercise  any  of  the  rights  granted  hereunder.  Furthermore, 
Lessee  shall  not  drill  any  wells  or  conduct  any  operations  within  six  hundred  (600)  feet  of  the  Lease  Premises.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  Lease  Premises  by  pooling, 
as  provided  herein,  oi  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  This  provision  shall  in  no  way  restrict  Lessee's  exploration 
of  or  production  from  the  Lease  Premises  by  means  of  wells  drilled  on  other  lands  but  entering  or  bottomed  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Any  wells  direetionally  or  horizontally 
drilled  or  operated  under  the  Lease  Premises  with  bottomhole  locations  (for  vertical  wells)  or  with  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (for  horizontal  wells)  on  the  Lease 
Premises  shall  be  regarded  as  if  the  wells  were  drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Lessee  agrees  that  any  drilling  under  the  Lease  Premises  shall  commence  at  and  continue  at 
depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth.  In  addition  to  Lessee's  other  rights  under  this  Lease,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee  a  subsurface 
easement  to  drill  and  operate  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  under  and  through  the  Lease  Premises  to  reach  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  and  which  wells  have 
bottom  hole  locations  (if  a  vertical  well)  or  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (if  a  horizontal  well)  on  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee  agrees 
that  this  subsurface  easement  shall  commence  at  and  continue  at  all  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth. 

12.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into 
consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of 
Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its 
operations,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

13.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and 
other  substances  covered  hereby.  To  the  extent  any  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders  are  less  restrictive  than  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall  control. 

14.  Indemnity  .  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with  their  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents, 
contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors  and  assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any 
actions  and  causes  of  action  of  every  nature,  or  other  harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought,  including,  but  not  limited 
to,  all  losses  and  expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or  resulting  from,  the 
operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of 
any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other  negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for, 
exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property  damage,  personal 


PDJET  O&G  Prod  SS  ModAJib'  NSU  100207  Thornbridge 


Page  2  of  5 


surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease 
or  any  other  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its  directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests,  invitees  and  their  respective 
successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor 
Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided  above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  as  described  above.  EXCEPT  AS 
OTHERWISE  EXPRESSLY  LIMITED  HEREIN,  ALL  OF  THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR  LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS 
OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT  LIMITS  AND  WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING 
CONDITIONS),  STRICT  LIABILITV  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE 
INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT,  CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 

15.  Except  as  expressly  provided  above  in  Paragraph  3,  Lessor's  royalty  may  not  be  charged  directly,  or  indirectly,  with  any  of  the  expenses  of  production, 
gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  processing,  or  treating  the  gas  produced  from  the  land  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  inlet  of  a  gas  pipeline  evacuating  gas  from  the 
Lease  Premises.  After  delivery  at  said  inlet.  Lessor's  royally  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  costs  and  expenses,  including  transportation,  to  the  point  of  sale. 

16.  Bach  singular  pronoun  herein  shall  include  the  plural  whenever  applicable.  Lessor  acknowledges  and  represents  that  (a)  the  Thombridge  Homeowners 
Association,  [tic.  and  its  officers  and  directors  (collectively,  "THOA")  have  not  acted  as  Lessor's  agent  in  connection  with  this  Lease;  (b)  Lessor,  in  making  the  decision  to 
enter  into  this  Lease,  has  not  relied  upon  any  statements  or  representations,  if  any,  of  the  THOA  regarding  the  terms  of  this  Lease;  and(c)  Lessor's  decision  to  enter  into 
this  Lease  is  the  independent  and  voluntary  decision  of  Lessor  after  being  given  the  opportunity  to  have  said  Lease  reviewed  by  counsel  of  Lessor's  choosing. 

1 7.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the  primary  term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as 
provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  either  (1)  the  deepest  depth  drilled  in  any  well 
drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith  or  (2)  the  stratigraphie  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  producing  or  capable  of  producing  in  any- 
well  drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  whichever  is  the  deepest. 

18.  For  convenience,  this  instrument  may  be  executed  in  multiple  counterparts  and  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  for  recording  purposes  their  respective  signature 
page  and  acknowledgments  may  be  removed  from  their  respective  counterpart  and  attached  to  a  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  and  for  all  purposes  and  obligations 
hereunder  this  shall  be  considered  as  one  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease. 

1 9.  Lessor  shall,  upon  the  request  of  Lessee,  use  its  best  efforts  in  assisting  Lessee  in  obtaining  a  subordination  of  Deed  of  Trust  or  similar  security  instrument  that 
may  affect  the  Lease  Premises.  Additionally,  in  the  event  Lessor  receives  a  notice  of  default,  acceleration  of  loan,  or  notice  of  sale  under  a  Deed  of  Trust  or  other  security 
instrument  affecting  the  Lease  Premises,  Lessor  shall  immediately  provide  copies  of  any  such  notice,  and  all  additional  relevant  facts,  to  Lessee.  In  this  regard,  Lessor 
shall  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests  of  Lessee.  The  parties  understand  that  if  the  Lease  Premises  is  burdened  by  a  lien,  Lessor  may  be  required  to  obtain  written 
consent  to  enter  this  l^ase  and/or  a  subordination  agreement  from  the  lienholder.  In  the  event  Lessor  incurs  any  expenses  associated  with  preparing  or  executing 
documents  confirming  consent  to  this  Lease  or  subordinating  a  lienholder's  rights  to  this  Lease,  then  Lessee  will  reimburse  Lessor  for  all  such  expenses. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


and  in  all  Capacities  for  the  above  described  Land) 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  SS  Mod/Urb'  NSU  100207  Thornbridge 


Page  3  of  5 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF    fiwa^r  § 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared     Ka+kf^  ^ 


c 


known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the     H     day  of      S^pVc^-t^    ,  2008. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 

Signature  of  Notary: 


SEAL: 


4£*if%  LEWIS  KINARO 

'  iTfr*  1  NotarV  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Cornrnission  Expires 
Aprilis,  2012 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 

My  Commission  Expires:     AprA    \^ ;  '2-Q  1  2 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


§ 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared 


known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the 


day  of 


,  2008. 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 
Signature  of  Notary:  


SEAL: 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires:  


DDJCT  O&G  Prod  SS  ModAJrb/  NSU  1 00207  Thombridse 


Page  4  of  5 


Initial 


Exhibit  "A" 
Land  Description 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  f  7  day  of  Se-p+er>->  hev  a  2008,  by  and 
between,  DDJET  Limited  LLP  as  Lessee  and  Kathryn  A.  Crispin,  an  unmarried  woman  as  Lessor, 

Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  insert  the  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  below,  if  it  is  not  already  included.  From  time  to  time 
Lessee  may  determine  that  some  part  or  all  of  the  Lease  Premises  should  be  more  specifically  described,  in  which  case  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for  such  re-description. 

0.266  acre(s)  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  Stephen  Richardson  Survey,  Abstract  No.  1266  and  being  Block  3  Lot  5,  Thornbridge 
East  Addition,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  North  Richland  Hills,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat  recorded  in  Cabinet  A  Slide 
4133  of  the  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  being  further  described  in  that  certain  General  Warranty  Deed  recorded  9/5/2008 
as  Entry  #D208346708  of  the  Official  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


134-35  MIDWAY  ROAD,  STE.  400 
DALLAS-  TfcXAG  75244 
PHON£  \2"i  4)  361-4292 
FAX  (21^  ?50"735- 


DDJET  O&G  Prod  SS  Mod/Urb/  NSU  100207    Thornbridge  Pags  5  of  5  Inilial . 


HARDING  COMPANY 
13465  MIDWAY  RD#  400 


DALLAS 


TX  75244 


Submitter:  PETROCASA  ENERGY-INC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:       12/11/2008  12:19  PNI 
Instrument  #:  D2084S2708 


D208452708 

ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


LSE 


6  PGS 


$32.00 


Printed  by:  CA 


