Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Dec  12  10:06  AM 

Fee:  $  36.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  6  Pages 


D208453954 


Suzanne  Henderson 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE 
PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER, 

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

PROD  88 
09/03 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  as  of  December  _/_,  2008,  between  Charles  E.  Webb,  Esq.,  3663  Airport  Freeway 
Fort  Worth,  TX  76111,  as  Receiver  for  Cornelius  B.  Wright  and  Lillian  Christeen  Wright;  Robert  Wade  Wright  and 
Sharon  Wright;  Martin  Douglas  Wright;  Robert  McDonald  and  their  Respective  Known  or  Unknown  Heirs,  Devisees, 
Descendants,  Personal  Representatives  and  Assigns,  as  Lessors,  and  CARRIZO  OIL  &  GAS,  INC.,  1000  Louisiana  Street, 
Suite  1500,  Houston,  Texas  77002,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as 
Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces,  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 
1,  Description.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases 
and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  lands,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises. 


A)  2.163  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  out  of  the  Joseph  Baker  Survey,  A-214,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  being  the  same 
tract  or  parcel  of  land  described  in  Warranty  Deed  dated  July  19, 1967  from  Cornelius  B.  Wright  and  Lillian  Christeen 
Wright,  Robert  Wade  Wright  and  Sharon  Wright  and  Martin  Douglas  Wright,  as  Grantors  to  American  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Company,  Grantee,  recorded  in  Volume  4439,  Page  791,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

B)  2.039  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  out  of  the  Joseph  Baker  Survey,  A-214  and  the  B.B.B.  &  C.R.R.  Survey,  A- 
1897,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  being  the  same  tract  or  parcel  of  land  described  in  Deed  dated  July  22, 1966  from  Cornelius 
B.  Wright  and  Lillian  C.  Wright,  as  Grantors  to  Texas  Electric  Service  Company,  Grantee,  recorded  in  Volume  4251, 
Page  33,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

C)  0.67  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  out  of  the  Joseph  Baker  Survey,  A-214,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  being  the  same 
tract  or  parcel  of  land  described  in  Warranty  Deed  dated  November  13, 1982  from  Bobby  Earl  Townsend,  as  Grantor  to 
Robert  McDonald,  Grantee,  recorded  in  Volume  7396,  Page  1274,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

In  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  containing  4.872  acres,  more  or  less,  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may 
hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing 
oil  and  gas  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  nonhydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  herewith.  The  term  "gas"  as  used 
herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide,  gaseous  sulfur  compounds,  coalbed  methane  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  a 
normal  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  land,  this  lease  and  the  term  "leased  premises"  also  covers 
accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the 
above-described  land,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any 
additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of 
determining  the  amount  of  any  payments  based  on  acreage  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed 
correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  Term  of  Lease.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  ONE  (1) 
YEAR  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying 
quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalty  Payment.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  lo  Lessor 
as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five 
Percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil 
purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  sell  such  production  to  itself  or  an 
affiliate  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (  or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same 
field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas 
(including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  Percent  (25%)  of  the 
proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  sell  such  production  to 
itself  or  an  affiliate  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  if  no 
such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to 
comparable  purchase  arrangements  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  or  its  affiliate 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  in  calculating  royalties  on  production  hereunder,  Lessee  may  deduct  Lessor's 
proportionate  part  of  any  production  and  excise  taxes.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells 
on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying 
quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 


nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90 
consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  an 
aggregate  shut-in  royalty  of  Ten  dollars  ($10.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  on  or 
before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well 
or  wells  are  shut  in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained 
by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations  or 
production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to 
terminate  this  lease. 

4.  Shut-in  Payment.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  directly  to  Lessor  at  the  above 
address,  or  its  successors,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency, 
or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  by  deposit  in  the  U.S.  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to 
the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment. 

5.  Operations.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any 
cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental 
authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee 
commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring 
production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or 
within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not 
otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations 
are  prosecuted  with  no  interruption  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or 
gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such 
additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or 
similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  reservoirs  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the 
leased  premises  or  land  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells 
located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except 
as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right,  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein 
with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either 
before  or  after  the  commencement  of  drilling  or  production  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to 
prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands 
or  interests.  The  creation  of  a  unit  by  such  pooling  shall  be  based  on  the  following  criteria  (hereinafter  called  "pooling  criteria"): 
A  unit  for  an  oil  well  (other  than  a  horizontal  )  shall  not  exceed  40  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas 
well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit 
may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be 
prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purposes  of  the  forgoing,  the  terms 
"oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or  if  no 
definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas 
well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  pre  barrel,  based  on  a  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the 
term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  or  gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  File  of  record  a  written 
declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere 
on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessors  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of 
the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the 
unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  In  the  event  a  unit  is  formed  hereunder  before 
the  unit  well  is  drilled  and  completed,  so  that  the  applicable  pooling  criteria  are  not  yet  known,  the  unit  shall  be  based  on  the 
pooling  criteria  Lessee  expects  in  good  faith  to  apply  upon  completion  of  the  well;  provided  that  within  a  reasonable  time  after 
completion  of  the  well  the  unit  shall  be  revised  if  necessary  to  conform  to  the  pooling  criteria  that  actually  exists.  Pooling  in  one 
or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the 
obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of 
production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  To  revise  a 
unit  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of 
revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the 
proportion  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of 
production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of 


record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross- 
conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  Payment  Reductions.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties, 
and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  land  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced 
to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased 
premises.  To  the  extent  any  royalty  or  other  payment  attributable  to  the  mineral  estate  covered  by  the  lease  is  payable  to 
someone  other  than  Lessor,  such  royalty  or  other  payment  shall  be  deducted  from  the  corresponding  amount  otherwise  payable  to 
Lessor  hereunder. 

8.  Ownership  Changes.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in 
part  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs, 
devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing 
the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  sixty 
days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of 
ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form 
of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such 
shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  at  the  address  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons 
are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons,  either  jointly,  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interests  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  Lessee 
shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  hereafter  existing  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interests,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to 
satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interests,  shall  not  effect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interests 
not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the 
obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net 
acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Release  of  Lease.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this 
lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and 
shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  less  than 
all  of  the  interest  or  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in 
accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Ancillary  Rights.  In  exploring  for  developing,  producing  and  marketing  all  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on 
the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  therewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of 
ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for 
such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads, 
canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other 
facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such 
operations  any  oil,  gas  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  well  or  ponds 
in  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  therewith,  the  ancillary 
rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial 
releases  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease,  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to 
grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary 
plow  depth.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  of 
Lessor  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings 
and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon. 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased 
premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable 
laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and 
production  of  wells,  and  regulation  of  the  price  or  transportation  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to 
obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse 
weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory 
market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and,  at  Lessee's  option,  the 
period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  provisions  or 
implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented  or  delayed. 

12.  Breach  or  Default.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  for  damages,  forfeiture  or  cancellation  with  respect  to  any 
breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully 
describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the 
matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited 
or  cancelled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or 
default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

13.  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessees' 
option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If 


Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to 
its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event 
Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in 
royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be 
binding  on  the  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this 
lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor . 


LESSOR  (WHETHER  ONE  OR  MORE) 

Charles  E.  Webb,  Esq.,  acting  as  Receiver  for  Mineral  Interests  under  Appointment  by  tbe  96th  Judicial  District  Court  of 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  inCause  No.  096-229,302-08  for  Cornelius  B.  Wright  and  Lillian  Christeen  Wright;  Robert  Wade 
Wright  apd£haron  WrigntjlMartin  Douglas  Wright;  Robert  McDonald  and  their  Respective  Known  or  Unknown  Heirs, 
Devisees,  Despf^djan^s,  fjergpiial  Representatives  and  Assigns, 


q.,  Receiver 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the-//  day  of  December,  2008  by  Charles  E.  Webb,  Esq.,  acting  as  Receiver 
for  Mineral  Interests  under  Appointment  by  the  96th  Judicial  District  Court  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  in  Cause  No.  096- 
229,302-08. 


After  recording  please  return  to: 


Notary  Public  for  the  State  of  Texas 


Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas.  Inc. 
ATTN:  Mark  H.  Brethauer 
1000  Louisiana.  Suite  1500 
Houston.  TX  77002 


SUSAN  M  WEBS 
My  Commtoton  Expires 

October  12, 3009 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


This  Exhibit  "A"  is  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  &  Mineral  Lease  dated 

December  ,  2008  by  and  between,  Charles  E.  Webb,  Esq.,  3663  Airport  Freeway  Fort  Worth,  TX  76111,  as  Receiver 

for  Cornelius  B.  Wright  and  Lillian  Christeen  Wright;  Robert  Wade  Wright  and  Sharon  Wright;  Martin  Douglas 
Wright;  Robert  McDonald  and  their  Respective  Known  or  Unknown  Heirs,  Devisees,  Descendants,  Personal 
Representatives  and  Assigns,  as  Lessors,  and  CARRIZO  OIL  &  GAS,  INC.,  1000  Louisiana  Street,  Suite  1500,  Houston, 
Texas  77002,  as  Lessee. 

15.  Addendum  Provisions  Govern:  The  foregoing  Addendum  and  the  provisions  of  the  Addendum  shall  supersede  and 
govern  the  provisions  of  the  lease,  wherever  those  provisions  are  in  conflict  with  the  Addendum.  This  lease,  including  the 
Addendum,  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of,  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto  and  other  respective  heirs,  representatives, 
successors  and  assigns. 

16.  Royalty  Limited  to  Hydrocarbons  This  lease  covers  only  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  other  associated  hydrocarbons  which  can 
be  produced  out  of  and  from  the  bore  of  a  well.  Solid  minerals,  other  than  sulphur,  such  as  iron,  coal,  sand,  gravel,  gold  and  clay 
are  excluded  from  this  lease. 

17.  No  Surface  Operations:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the  printed  lease  or  this  Exhibit,  this  lease  does  not 
grant  any  drill  site  rights  to  Lessee  and  Lessee  shall  not  have  the  right  to  conduct  any  operations  on  the  surface  of  the  leased 
premises,  except  seismic  and  geophysical  operations.  Nothing  contained  herein  shall  limit  Lessee's  right  to  drill  under  any 
portion  of  the  leased  premises. 

18.  Lessor's  Royalty  Free  of  Expenses:  The  royalties  provided  in  Paragraph  3  herein  shall  be  determined  and  delivered  to 
Lessor  free  of  any  development,  production,  compression,  processing,  treating,  transportation,  delivery,  or  like  costs;  however, 
such  royalties  shall  bear  taxes  applicable  to  Lessor's  share  of  production  that  are  paid  by  Lessee. 

19.  Royalty  -Amount  Realized:  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  shall  never  be  obligated 
to  pay  royalty  on  products  produced,  saved  and  sold  by  Lessee  under  this  lease  based  upon  a  price  higher  than  that  realized  by 
Lessee  at  the  point  of  delivery  nor  shall  Lessor's  royalty  on  products  produced,  saved  and  sold  by  Lessee  under  this  lease  be  paid 
based  upon  a  price  lower  than  that  realized  by  Lessee  at  the  point  of  delivery.  For  the  purpose  of  this  lease,  point  of  delivery 
shall  be  defined  as  that  point  at  which  oil  and/or  gas  or  any  products  produced  by  Lessee  under  this  lease  are  no  longer  owned  or 
controlled  by  Lessee. 

20.  Pugh  Clause:  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  or  after  cessation  of  continuous  development  as 
provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  lands  not  included  in  a  pooled  unit  for  production. 

21.  Vertical  Pugh  Clause:  After  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  or  after  cessation  of  continuous 
development  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  depths  lying  below  100  feet  below  the 
stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  depth  for  which  production  casing  has  been  set  by  Lessee  on  the  above  described  premises 
or  upon  land  with  which  these  lands  may  be  pooled  for  production. 

22.  Shut-in  Royalty:  While  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  lease  or  on  lands  pooled  hereunder  proven  to  be  capable  of  producing 
gas  in  a  commercial  quantity  but  gas  is  not  being  sold  or  used  or  there  is  a  horizontal  drainhole  well  which  been  drilled  which  is 
awaiting  fracture  stimulation  due  to  lack  of  available  gas  pipeline  connection,  and  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained  in  force 
by  production  or  operations  as  herein  provided,  Lessee  shall  pay  as  royalty,  commencing  on  or  before  90  days  after  such  well  is 
first  shut-in,  a  sum  equal  to  Ten  and  no/100  ($10.00)  Dollars  per  net  mineral  acre  per  annum  as  shut-in  royalty  payment  during 
and  after  the  primary  term  based  on  the  number  of  acres  subject  to  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  or  development,  and  if  such 
payment  is  made  or  tendered,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  and  will  be  considered  that  gas  is  being  produced  from  this  lease  in 
paying  quantities;  provided,  however,  this  tease  cannot  be  maintained  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  for  more  than  12 
cumulative  months.  Royalty  on  actual  production  during  a  shut-in  period  will  not  be  reduced  by  the  amount  of  shut-in  payments. 

23.  Hold  Harmless:  Lessee  shall  indemnify  and  hold  Lessor  harmless  from  and  against  any  and  all  claims,  actions,  liability, 
loss,  damage  or  expense  of  every  kind  and  nature,  including,  but  not  limited  to  attorney's  fees  and  costs,  for  damage  to  property 
including  environmental  damage  to  surface  properties  and  underground  water  of  any  person,  firm  or  corporation  or  for  injury  to 
or  death  of  any  person,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  employees  of  Lessee,  its  successors,  assigns,  contractors  or 
subcontractors,  which  may,  in  whole  or  in  part,  be  caused  by  or  arise  out  of  operations  conducted  hereunder  or  the  enjoyment  of 
this  lease  or  the  exercise  of  any  right  granted  hereunder  or  any  obligation  imposed  hereby. 


24.  Release:  It  is  understood  and  agreed,  noEwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein,  that  within  Forty-five 
(45)  days  after  this  lease  has  expired  or  any  portion  thereof  has  terminated,  Lessee  or  any  assignee  thereof  shall  furnish  Lessor,  or 
Lessor's  heirs  or  assigns,  with  a  recordable  release  of  this  lease  or  such  portions  which  have  been  terminated  under  the  terms  of 
this  lease  agreement.  If  Lessor  makes  written  demand  of  Lessee  to  furnish  a  release  or  partial  release  and  Lessee  fails  or  refuses 
to  do  so  within  30  days  after  receipt  of  the  written  demand,  then  Lessee  shall  reimburse  Lessor  for  all  reasonable  expenses 
incurred  to  secure  the  release, 

25.  Transfer  of  Interest:  Pursuant  to  Paragraph  S  herein,  if  Lessee  transfer  its  interest,  it  shall  remain  jointly  liable  with  the 
transferee/assignee  for  prior  defaults.  In  addition,  Lessee  shall  remain  liable  for  its  proportionate  share  of  any  retained  interest. 

26.  Force  Majeure  &  Regulation  of  Prices:  Not  withstanding  the  provision  of  Paragraph  11  herein,  the  reference  to 
regulation  of  prices  is  deleted;  and  Lessee  must  make  all  commercially  reasonable  efforts  to  avoid  a  force  majeure,  and  any  force 
majeure  will  not  exceed  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days 

27.  No  Warranty  of  Title:  Not  withstanding  the  provision  of  Paragraph  13,  Lessor  does  not  warrant  its  title  to  the  leased 
premises.  Lessee  accepts  Lessors  title  in  and  to  the  leased  premises. 

SIGNED  FOR  IDENTIFICATION 


LESSOR: 


Charles  E.  Webb,  Esq.,  acting  as  Receiver  for  Mineral  Interests  under  Appointment  by  the  96th  Judicial  District  Court  of 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  in  Cause  No.  096-229,302-08  for  Cornelius  B.  Wright  and  Lillian  Christeen  Wright;  Robert  Wade 
WrigWand  Sbacon  JWright;  Martin  Douglas  Wright;  Robert  McDonald  and  their  Respective  Known  or  Unknown  Heirs, 
DevIisees7B>escenqafirs,  Personal  Representatives  and  Assigns, 


,  Esq.,  Receiver 


