Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2008  Dec  16  09:31  AM 


D208456636 


Fee:  $  28.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  4  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY 
OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS: 
YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  UCENSE  NUMBER. 

WrV  XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  6th  day  of  November,  2008,  between  James  E.  Reger  and  Susan  Reger,  husband  and  wife,  Lessor 
(whether  one  or  more),  whose  addrels  is:  8704  Hidden  Hill  Drive,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76179,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810 
Houston  Street,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1  Lessor  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged  and  of  the  covenants  and 
aareements  of  LeSee  hereinafte  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  lor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
n%M  of  Ixploring  Sng         and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to 
fhose iSonedf &S  surveys  on  said  (and,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface 

disDOsaTof  sK^  bridges,  dig  cabals,  build  tanks,  power-stations,  telephone  lines.. employee  houses  and  other  structures 

o  s™ I  land  necetsa"  ^S^C^ropwAmi  in  exploring,  drilling  for.  producing,  bating  sto^ 

from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  fand  coveredhereby.Tierein  called  'said  land,  is  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant  .  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

Rninn  o  d3S  acres  more  or  less  out  of  the  Dempsey  C.  Pace,  Abstract  No.  1245,  and  being  Lot  16,  Block  27,  Lake  Country  Estates,  an 
AddiSon fin iJmiAS^^^SSSS£Slff&  Plat  recorded  in  Volume  $88-82, Page 26.  dat  Records,  Tarrant Coujto  Tens 
and  hfiino those* lame  lands  oarticulariy  described  in  a  General  Warranty  Deed  With  Vendor's  Lien,  dated  August  4,  1977,  from  Mesa 
fnc  a  Texas  corooratior Tactfna  bv  Sfl  its  duly  authorized  officers,  to  James  E.  Reger  and  wife,  Susan  B.  Reger, 

recorded  ™wS££lWPw  «5,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County.  Texas  and  amendments  thereof  .Including  streets,  easements 
and  alleyways  adjacent  thereof,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

SEE  ATTACHED  ADDENDUM  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS 

This  is  a  non-development  Oil,  Gas  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any  operation,  as '  defined 
herein  or?  the 7urfacel of Wlfcndt.  However,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  said  lands,  or  part  thereof,  with  other 
lands  to  compromise  an  oil  and/or  gas  development  unit 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or ^adjoining  the  'and  above 
described  and I  fa) Townedc?  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unre^rded  instrument  or  (b) 
aslo^ch  Ussorhas  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  fo  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more 
SmnSe  or  accurate  descnDtion Tof  saicf  land  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder  said  land  shaH 
Sdeemed to^nlalr ?!^Lac  5  Aether  actually  containing  more  orfess,  and  the  above  recital  o  acreage  in  any tract  sha  1  be  deemed  to 
be  th?Efe 'acreage  thereoTTeswr  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  nghts  and  options  hereunder. 

■>  UniPss  sooner  terminated  or  lonqer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  terrn  of 
5  yearS  torn Ihe date ^Sre^f  r^r^inaSer  callS  "primary  tern."  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted 
upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3  As  rovaltv  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  'ts  wells,  the >  equal 
3  as  royalty.  Lessee  ^™n^' u  gHsaved\,'  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  opbon  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 
nosTedlTiarket  i?ri<S  S ^  such  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Leases  ffrterest  in 

ShPr        tn  ES      1/4 '         of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  lessor  on  gas  and  casing 
?  S^ifu^S  \*r,A  i  ft  ufr«n  c^ih  Li  1fl  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2) 


mouth  of  the  well,  of 


wten^STy  Ussee ofYsaid  land  or  in  the  rnanufacture  ot  gasoline  or  other  product^  me  marke  vab 
wi  mi  u»   uy  ^Tr^       ^  caginghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  trom i  saa  'ana 

S ahy  Pe5 £*U S»  ih^H  make  Se  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  rf 
the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 


each  such 
shall  be 


mmmtm 

provisions  of  this  paragraph  4.  a  unit  once  f^J^d  ^nnnd*^^  separate  tracts  is  intended 

fft!OT  stfall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to 


pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the 
words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  cwriershipcSrfering,  now  or  hereafter,  either® 
part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  (Jeliver  to  Lessor  or  fte 

part  or  aH  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  al  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shal  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  driHsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  weH  in  search 
for  or  in  an  ereJeavor  to  obtain  product 

whether  or  not  in  paying  Quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shaN  ham  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  cfwa^ 

operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  ngjrt  at  am  tinre  to  remove  al  machinery 

and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than 200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shatfextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  dmsnnintheovmefshipofsaidland,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  hereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  oNgations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  imted  to,  the  location  and  drWng  of  weis  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwftnstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  tend  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shal 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  tease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 
place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recorcfowner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  comptiedv^a>  its  obligations  he 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  speoiBcaly  in  what  respecte  Lessee  has  breacnedths  contracts 

of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  aleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shaB  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  faied  to  perform  all  ite  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remsininfbfoearKiefledasto(1)suffi^^ 

to  constitute  a  dnlng  or  maximum  alowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearty  as  prac^ 

require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  ncJuaed  in  a  pooled  unft  on  which  mere  are  qraatKxis. 

as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shaH  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  faciities  necessary 

or  convenient  tor  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shal  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  tease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oi,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  aH  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  fuB  interest  shad  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein ,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undrvided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  tease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

11.  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
wefl  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invafd)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shal  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  fblowing  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  tease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  c>perations  as  rf  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  weH(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  aH  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shal  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  weO  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  weH  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  locations)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 
LESSOR(S): 

Bv:  ^  J&WA  f^^H  Bf.jA^mAA 


Susan  Reger 


^J-SS.  (ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  CORPORATION) 

COUNTY  OF  }c^^C^\  > 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  /p      day  of 
James^Reger  and  Susan  Reger.  husband  and  wife. 

S.  Signature. 

Notary  Public 


My  commission  expires 
Seal: 


Printed  U  -  3  VP&C 

irB,  ^..IvmO'l 
ires:  t^^^^^^ssssaateasasaaKaesKL 

BRIAN  W.BURKE  If 

MY  COMMISSION  EXPRES  B 
My  23, 2012  H 


ADDENDUM 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADE  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE  DATED  THE  _6_  DAY  OF  NOVEMBER  2008, 
BETWEEN  JAMES  E.  REGER  AND  SUSAN  REGER,  HUSBAND  AND  WIFE,  AS  LESSOR,  AND  XTO  ENERGY  INC.,  AS  LESSEE,  COVERING  0.439 
ACRES  OF  LAND,  MORE  OR  LESS,  OUT  OF  THE  DEMPSEY  C.  PACE  SURVEY,  ABSTRACT  NO.  A-1245,  IN  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS, 

THE  PROVISIONS  OF  ADDENDUM  SUPERSEDE  COMPLETELY  ANY  PROVISIONS  TO  THE  CONTRARY  CONTAINED  IN  THE  LEASE  TO  WHICH 
THIS  ADDENDUM  IS  ATTACHED. 

15.  Minerals  Covered.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof,  this  lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  arid  gas"  means  oil. 
gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore. 

16.  Gas  Royalty,  (a)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as 
follows:  (a)  for  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royally  shall  be  twenty  five  percent 
(25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  al  the  oil  purchaser's 
transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price 
then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is 
such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  and  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances 
covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  computed  at 
the  point  of  sale,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  or  other  excise  taxes,  and  less  the  permitted 
unaffiliated  third  party  deductions  described  below;  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at 
the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in 
the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  lo  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered 
into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder. 

(b)  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are  processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which 
Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  shall  be  calculated  based  upon  the  higher  of  the  proceeds  received  or 
the  market  value  of  the  products  so  processed.  Similarly,  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  which  are 
sold  to  Lessee,  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  royalties  shall  be  paid  based  upon  the  higher  of  the  market  value  of  the  products  so  sold  and 
the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  said  products.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  except  for  nonaffiliated  third-party 
charges  incurred  or  paid  by  Lessee,  in  no  event  shall  any  of  Lessor's  royalty  bear  any  part  of  the  costs  of  production  or  any 
post-production  costs,  including  costs  of  lifting,  gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  separation,  delivery,  transportation,  manufacture, 
processing,  treating  or  marketing,  or  for  construction,  operation  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facilily  or  equipment  for 
processing  or  treating  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  In  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price 
greater  than  or  less  than  Lessee  in  sales  to  nonaffiliates. 

(c)  As  used  herein,  "affiliate''  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%) 
of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest;  or 
(ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than  len  percent  (10%)  of  the 
outstanding  voting  interest  of  both  the  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled 
by  the  same  person  or  group  of  persons. 

17.  Shut-In  Royalty.  If  at  Ihe  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying 
quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  A  well  that  has  been  drilled  but  not  traced  shall  be  deemed  capable  of  producing 
in  paying  quantities.  If  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being 
sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  twenty  five  dollars  ($25.00)  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease  on  or  before 
the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  date  the  first  payment  is  due;  provided,  however,  that 
if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shul-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of 
such  operations  or  production.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein,  it  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  after  the 
expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  shall  no!  have  Ihe  right  to  continue  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shul-in  royalty  for  more 
than  one  single  period  of  up  lo  two  (2)  consecutive  years. 

18.  No  Surface  Operations.  It  is  hereby  agreed  and  understood  lhat  there  shall  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of  the  leased 
prem  Ises  without  Ihe  prior  written  permission  from  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased  premises.  Notwithstanding 
Ihe  foregoing,  this  waiver  of  surface  shall  not  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  utilize  the  subsurface  of  the  leased 
premises  under  this  lease,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  exploit,  explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil,  gas  and  other  covered 
minerals  under  this  lease  from  wells  from  surface  locations  off  the  leased  premises,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  directional  or 
horizontal  drilling  activity  which  comes  under  the  surface  of  Ihe  leased  premises.  This  drilling  surface  waiver  does  not  apply  to  any 
surface  rights  associated  with  instruments  other  than  this  lease. 

19.  Vertical  Pugh.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  upon  the  expiration  of  any  extension  or  renewal  of  the  primary 
term,  or  after  cessation  of  operations  as  provided  herein,  whichever  occurs  last,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  rights  lying  below 
one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  deepest  formation  drilled. 

20.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee 
acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  every  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  invesligation  lo  satisfy  itself  as  to 
the  title  to  Ihe  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  All  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  by  statute,  including 
but  not  limited  to  Section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successors),  are  excluded.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land 
less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  (including  shut-in  royalties)  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately. 
All  royalty  interest  covered  by  (his  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  Lessor  will 
use  ail  its  reasonable  efforts  to  assist  Lessee  to  subordinate  any  rights  of  a  mortgage  holder  to  perfect  the  Lessee's  rights  under  this 
lease;  provided,  however,  any  necessary  subordination  shall  be  obtained  by  Lessee  at  Lessee's  sole  expense.  In  the  event  Lessee  is 
unable  to  obtain  a  subordination  agreement,  Lessee,  al  its  option,  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage,  or  other  lien  or  interest  and  other 
charges  on  the  Land  superior  to  this  Lease,  and  in  Ihe  event  Lessee  does  so.  Lessee  will  have  the  option  of  applying  the  royalties 
accruing  to  Lessor  toward  payment  of  same  and  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof. 

21.  Indemnity.  Lessee  hereby  releases  and  discharges  Lessor  and  the  owner  of  the  surface  estate,  along  with  their  officers, 
employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests  and  Invitees,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors  and 
assigns  (collectively  the  "Lessor  Parties"),  of  and  from  all  and  any  actions  and  causes  of  action  of  every  nature,  or  other 
harm,  including  environmental  harm,  for  which  recovery  of  damages  Is  sought,  Including,  but  not  limited  to,  all  losses  and 
expenses  which  are  caused  by  the  activities  of  Lessee,  its  officers,  employees  and  agents  arising  out  of,  incidental  to  or 
resulting  from,  the  operations  of  or  for  Lessee  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  that 
may  arise  out  of  or  be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease,  or  by  any  other 
negligent  or  strictly  liable  act  or  omission  of  Lessee.  Further,  Lessee  hereby  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  Indemnify, 
defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  against  any  and  all  claims,  liabilities,  losses,  damages,  actions,  property 
damage,  personal  Injury  (including  death),  costs  and  expenses,  or  other  harm  for  which  recovery  of  damages  is  sought, 
under  any  theory  including  tort,  contract,  statute  or  strict  liability,  Including  attorney  fees  and  other  legal  expenses, 
including  those  related  to  environmental  hazards  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations  site  or  in 
any  way  related  to  Lessee's  failure  to  comply  with  any  and  all  environmental  laws;  those  arising  from  or  in  any  way  related 
to  Lessee's  operations  or  any  other  of  Lessee's  activities  in,  on  or  under  the  leased  premises  or  at  the  drill  site  or  operations 
site;  those  arising  from  Lessee's  use  of  the  surface  or  subsurface  of  the  leased  premises;  and  those  that  may  arise  out  of  or 
be  occasioned  by  Lessee's  breach  of  any  of  the  terms  or  provisions  of  this  Lease  or  any  other  act  or  omission  of  Lessee,  its 
directors,  officers,  employees,  partners,  agents,  contractors,  subcontractors,  guests,  invitees  and  their  respective 
successors  and  assigns.  Each  assignee  of  this  Lease,  or  of  an  interest  herein,  agrees  to  be  liable  for,  exonerate,  indemnify, 
defend  and  hold  harmless  the  Lessor  Parties  in  the  same  manner  provided  above  in  connection  with  the  activities  of 
Lessee, 


THE  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  AND/OR  LIABILITIES  ASSUMED  UNDER  THE  TERMS  OF  THIS  LEASE  SHALL  BE  WITHOUT 
LIMITS  AND  WITHOUT  REGARD  TO  THE  CAUSE  OR  CAUSES  THEREOF  (EXCLUDING  PRE-EXISTING  CONDITIONS), 
STRICT  LIABILITY  OR  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  ANY  PARTY  OR  PARTIES  (INCLUDING  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OF  THE 
INDEMNIFIED  PARTY),  WHETHER  SUCH  NEGLIGENCE  BE  SOLE,  JOINT,  CONCURRENT,  ACTIVE  OR  PASSIVE. 


22.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  comply  with  the  City  of 
Fort  Worth  Drilling  Ordinance,  as  amended. 

23.  Limited  Power  of  Attorney  to  Obtain  Subordination  Agreement-  By  the  execution  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  does  hereby  appoint  and 
designate  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  as  its  attorneys-in-fact  solely  for  the  Nmted  purpose  of  allowing  Lessee  to  contact 
Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor  (H  any)  on  behalf  of  Lessor  to  obtain  a  lien  subordination  agreement  or  other  srniar  document  for 
purposes  of  subordinating  any  mortgage  on  the  leased  premises  to  Lessee's  interests  in  this  lease.  Lessee  will  mail  a  copy  of  the 
executed  and  recorded  lien  subordination  agreement  or  simitar  agreement  when  finalized.  When  Lessee  has  finalized  Hs  lien 
subordination  agreement  or  similar  agreement  with  Lessor's  lender  or  mortgagor,  this  limited  power-of-attomey  to  the  Lessee  shall  in 
all  respects  terminate  and  automatically  be  revoked.  Lessee  shall  bear  any  and  all  costs  associated  with  obtaining  any  such  lien 
subordination  agreement  or  similar  agreement. 

24.  Waiver  of  Claims  as  to  Gas  Lease  Committee  and  Acknowledgement  of  Independent  Legal  Advice.  Lessor  acknowledges  that 
the  terms  of  this  Lease,  the  amount  of  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee  with  respect  to  this 
Lease  (the  "Negotiated  Terms")  were  obtained  as  a  resuR  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  a  group  known  as  the  Greater  Lake 
Country  Gas  Leasing  Task  Force  ("GLCGLTF*),  which  consisted  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers,  including  Brad  Shaw,  Carl 
Wilson,  Dick  Deatrick,  Dennis  Shingleton,  Nora  Donavan,  Margaret  Hamtin,  Jim  Usher,  Cecilia  Vatdez,  Phil  Fox,  Craig  Zieres,  Dave 
Newell,  Ginger  Mayronne,  Robert  Fife,  Fred  Villarreal  (the  "GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee").  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  of  the 
GLCGLTF  in  negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms,  Lessor,  individually  and  on  behalf  of  Lessor's  agents,  representatives, 
family  members,  predecessors,  successors,  heirs  and  assigns,  hereby  releases  and  forever  discharges  GLCGLTF,  the  GLCGLTF, 
and  any  of  GLCGLTFs  or  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee's  members,  agents,  and  representatives,  specifically  including  any 
attorneys  engaged  by  the  GLCGLTF  Gas  Lease  Committee  to  facilitate  the  solicitation  of  bids  and  negotiation  of  lease  terms  (the 
"GLCGLTF  Releases"),  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's 
fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statute  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recovery, 
whether  known  or  unknown,  which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  GLCGLTF  Releases,  which  arise  out  of  or  relate 
to  (a)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (b)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (c)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the 
Negotiated  Terms.  Lessor  further  acknowledges  and  represents  that  (a)  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  have  not  acted  as  Lessor's  agent  in 
connection  with  this  Lease;  (b)  Lessor,  in  making  the  decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease,  has  not  relied  upon  any  statements  or 
representations,  if  any,  of  the  GLCGLTF  Releases  regarding  the  terms  of  this  Lease;  and  (c)  Lessor's  decision  to  enter  into  this  Lease 
is  the  independent  and  voluntary  decision  of  Lessor  alter  being  given  the  opportunity  to  have  said  Lease  reviewed  by  counsel  of 
Lessor's  choosing. 


