Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Jan  02  03:59  PM  ^  ^  « 

Fee:  $  36.X  D209001118 

Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  6  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


HARDING  COMPANY 

13465  Midway  Road,  Suite  400 

Dallas,  Texas  75244 

Submitter:  HARDING  COMPANY 


SUZANNE  HEggEg^ 
TARRANT  C^UWtGtERK 
TARRANT  COU^|iOMlfj^gSE 
1 00  WEST  WEAftll^P 
FORT  WORfft,  fX  7  6i8B#$Ql 


DO 


WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PARK 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPLIFILE 


£f  w\  Teredos 


By:, 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  MSTOCMrSjp :SSg&^MMr 
OF  THE  DESCRIBES  REAL  f^©!^ 

RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  '43IJPER  EEBpRfp^Af?;- 


MOD  PRODUCERS  88  URB/REV,  PAID  UP  LEAKfc 
NO  SURFACE  USE  WITH  POOLING  PROVISION 


Tract  No. 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE 
FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS: 
YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


SUBSURFACE  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  ("Lease")  made  this  2-  *^     day  of  _   ,  2008,  between 

Gary  W.  Bruner  and  wife,  Teresa  A.  Bruner,  as  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  1540  Hudnall  Farm  Rdf  Keller,  Texas  76248  and  Harding  Energy 
Partners,  LLC,  a  Texas  Limited  Liability  Company,  as  Lessee,  whose  address  is  13465  Midway  Road,  Dallas,  Texas,  75244,  WITNESSETH; . 

t.  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  no/100  Dollars  and  Other  Valuable  Consideration  ($10.00  &  Q.V.C.)  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided  and  of 
the  agreements  of  Lessee  herein  contained  hereby,  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  unto  Lessee  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and 
mining  for  and  producing  oil,  gas,  sulfur,  fissionable  materials  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to  those  mentioned),  conducting  exploration,  geologic  and 
geophysical  teste  and  surveys,  injecting  gas,  water  and  other  fluids  and  air  into  subsurface  strata,  laying  pipelines,  establishing  and  utilizing  facilities  for  the  disposition  of 
salt  water,  dredging  and  maintaining  canals,  building  roads,  bridges,  tanks,  telephone  lines,  power  stations  and  other  structures  thereon,  and  on,  over  and  across  lands 
owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  and  contiguous  thereto  necessary  to  Lessee  in  operations  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  transport  and  own  said  minerals,  the 
following  described  land  m  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  (herein  referred  to  as  the  "Lease  Premises"  or  the  "Land")  to-wit 

See  attached  Exhibit  "A"  for  Land  Description 

This  Lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  and  interest  in  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  Land  particularly  described  above, 
whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  Or  correction  to  Lease! s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for  the 
purpose  of  providing  a  more  specific  description  of  the  Lease  Premises.  Furthermore,  Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  complete  die  description  of  the  Lease  Premises  by 
inserting,  as  appropriate,  the  applicable  Acreage,  Survey,  Abstract,  Chy  and  Plat  information  m  the  description  set  forth  in  Exhibit  "A,"  attached  hereto. 

2.  Without  reference  to  the  commencement,  prosecution  or  cessation  at  anytime  of  drilling  or  other  development  operations,  and/or  to  the  discovery,  development 
or  cessation  at  any  time  of  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  and  without  further  payments  than  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  notwithstanding  anything  else 
herein  contained  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  Three  (31  years  from  the  date  hereof  (called  "Primary  Term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other 
mineral  is  produced  from  said  Land  or  land  pooled  therewith  hereunder,  or  as  long  as  this  Lease  is  continued  in  effect,  as  otherwise  provided  herein. 

3.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  are:  (a)  on  oil,  25.00%  of  that  produced  and  saved  from  said  Land ,  the  same  to  be  delivered  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of 
Lessor  into  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells  may  be  connected;  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  purchase  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession,  paying  the  market  price  therefore 
prevailing  for  the  field  where  produced  on  the  date  of  purchase,  and  Lessee  may  sell  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession  and  pay  Lessor  the  price  received  by  Lessee  for  such 
oil  computed  at  the  well;  (b)  on  gas,  including  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substance,  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  or  used  off  the  Lease  Premises  or  for  the 
extraction  of  gasoline  or  other  product  therefrom,  the  market  value  at  the  well  of 25.00%  of  the  gas  so  sold  or  used,  provided  mat  on  gas  sold  by  Lessee  the  market  value 
shall  not  exceed  the  amount  received  by  Lessee  for  such  gas  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  and  on  gas  sold  at  the  well  me  royalty  shall  be  25.00%  of  the  amount 
realized  by  Lessee  from  such  sale;  and  (c)  on  fissionable  materials  and  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine,  at 
Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulfur  mined  or  marketed,  the  royalty  shall  be  Two  Dollars  ($2.00)  per  long  ton.  If  the  price  of  any  mineral  or  substance  upon  which 
royalty  is  payable  hereunder  is  regulated  by  any  governmental  agency,  the  market  value  or  market  price  of  such  mineral  or  substance  for  the  purpose  of  computing  royalty 
hereunder  shall  not  be  in  excess  of  the  price  which  Lessee  may  receive  and  retain.  Lessee  shall  have  free  from  royalty  or  other  payment  the  use  of  water,  other  than  water 
from  Lessor's  wells  or  tanks,  and  of  oil,  gas  and  coal  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises  in  all  operations  which  Lessee  may  conduct  hereunder,  including  water  injection 
and  secondary  recovery  operations,  and  the  royalty  on  oil,  gas  and  coal  shall  be  computed  after  deducting  any  so  used.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  on  said  Land  or  on  land 
pooled  therewith,  which  well  is  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  but  such  well  is  not  being  produced  and  this  Lease  is  not  being  maintained  otherwise  as  provided  herein, 
this  Lease  shall  not  terminate,  whether  it  be  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term,  (unless  released  by  Lessee)  and  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  that  oil  and  gas  is  being 
produced  from  the  Lease  Premises  covered  by  this  Lease  when  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  (or  make  a  bona  fide  attempt  to  pay  pr  tender)  asjpyalty  to  the  parties  who  .at  the 

time  of  such  payment  would  be  entitled  torecerw;  royalty  hereunder  if  the  well  was  producing,  or  deposit  to  their  credit  in    f^/t^ffi?  fefiytfeT  

Bank  at  1 0 1  "fouSft  <%*f*  f-  £n   (&■)  le.f  .TlC  1LZM%  (which  bank  as  agent  or  depository  and  its  successors  are 

royalty  owner  or  owners  agent,  and  shall  continue  as  depository  for  all  such  sums  which  Lessee  may  pay  hereunder  regardless  of  changes  in  ownership  or  royalties)  the 
sum  of  One  and  no/1 00  Dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  calendar  month,  or  portion  thereafter  during  which  said  well  is  situated  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  on  land  pooled  therewith, 
and  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  maintained,  or  this  Lease  is  not  released  by  Lessee  as  to  the  land  on  which  or  the  horizon,  zone  or  formation  in  which  the  well  is  completed. 
The  first  payment  of  such  sum ,  shall  be  made  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each  calendar  month  after  expiration  of  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date  the  lease  is  not  otherwise 
maintained  for  all  accruals  to  such  date,  and  thereafter  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  each  third  calendar  month  for  all  accruals  to  each  such  date  to  Lessor's  designated 
depository  bank  or,  if  a  depository  is  not  designated  above,  then  mailed  on  or  before  die  due  date  of  payment  to  the  parties  entitled  thereto  at  Lessor's  address  set  forth 
above  or  to  the  last  known  address  provided  in  writing  to  Lessee  by  Lessor.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  or  timely  pay  or  tender  any  such  sum  as  royalty  shall  render 
Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due  but  it  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  withhold  and 
accumulate  such  payments  payable  to  Lessor  until  the  first  of  the  calendar  month  following  the  accumulation  of  Twenty-Five  and  no/1 00  Dollars  ($25.00)  when  payment 
shall  be  made  as  above  provided. 

4.  The  cash  down  payment  is  consideration  for  this  Lease  according  to  its  terms  and  shall  not  be  allocated  as  rental  for  a  period.  Lessee  may  at  any  time,  and  from 
time  to  time,  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor,  or  to  the  depository  bank,  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  Lease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  said  Land  or  of  any  mineral 
or  subsurface  interval  or  any  depths  (hereunder  and  thereby  be.relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  released  land,  mineral,  horizon,  zone  or  formation.  If  this  Lease  is 
released  as  to  all  minerals,  horizons,  zones  and  formations  under  aportion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  the  shut-in  royalty  and  other  payments  computed  in  accordance  therewith 
shall  thereupon  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  tbe  acreage  released  bears  to  the  acreage  which  was  covered  by  this  Lease  immediately  prior  to  such  release. 

5.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  is  hereby  given  the  right  and  power  during  or  after  the  Primary  Term  while  this  Lease  is  in  effect  to  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises, 
or  any  portion  thereof,  as  to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  with  any  other  land  covered  by  mis  Lease,  and/or  any  other  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  immediate 
vicinity  thereof,  when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  properly  to  explore,  or  to  develop  and  operate  the  Lease  Premises  in  compliance 
with  the  spacing  mles  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil, 
gas  or  other  mineral  in  and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises.  Units  pooled  for  oil  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  40  acres  each  plus  a 
tolerance  of  10%  thereof,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantial^  exceed  in  area  160  acres  each  plus  atolerance  of  10%  thereof,  provided  mat  should 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  tbe  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size 
with  those  prescribed  or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  die  contrary  stated  herein,  a  unit  for  a  horizontal  well  may  include  (i)  die 
amount  of  acreage  allowed  for  obtaining  a  permit  to  drill  a  well  under  die  spacing  and  density  provisions  in  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellbore, 
plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater  than  40  acres),  or  (ii)  the  amount  of  acreage  allowed  for 
obtaining  a  full  production  allowable  under  the  applicable  field  or  statewide  rules  for  a  vertical  wellbore,  plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  die  tables  in  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas  Rule  86  (density  greater  than  40  acres).  Lessee  may  pool  or  combine  the  Lease  Premises  or  any  portion  thereof,  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any 
one  or  more  strata  and  as  to  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata.  Units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  units  as  to  any  other 
stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  pool  this  Lease  or 
portions  thereof  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  an  instrument  describing  and 
designating  the  pooled  acreage  as  a  pooled  unit;  the  unit  shall  become  effective  as  provided  in  said  instruments,  or  if  said  instrument  makes  no  such  provision,  it  shall 
become  effective  upon  the  date  it  is  filed  for  record.  Each  unit  shall  be  effective  as  to  all  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns,  irrespective  of  whether  or  not 
the  unit  is  likewise  effective  as  to  all  other  owners  of  surface,  mineral,  royalty  or  other  rights  in  land  included  in  such  unit  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling 
option  as  to  oil,  gas  and  other  minerals  before  or  after  commencing  operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  or  wells  or  mine  for  other  mineral  on  the  Lease  Premises, 
and  the  pooled  unit  may  include,  but  is  not  required  to  include,  land  or  leases  upon  which  a  well  or  mine  capable  of  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  in  paying  quantities 
has  theretofore  been  completed  or  upon  which  operations  for  drilling  of  a  well  or  mine  for  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  have  theretofore  been  commenced^-Orjerations  for 
drilling  on,  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  which  include,  all  or  a  portion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  regardless  qrVhether  such 
operations  for  drilling  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or  after  the  execution  of  this  Lease  or  the  instrument  -designating  the.  p^led'i^t^hall  be 
considered  as  operations  for  drilling  oh  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  from  the  Lease  Premises  whether  or  not  the  well  cfr  welts  or  lrhine  be'lpcated  oh^the  Lease 
Premises,  and  the  entire  acreage  constituting  such  unit  or  units,  as  to  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  or  any  of  them,  as  herein  provided,  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except 
the  payment  of  royalties  on  production  from  the  pooled  unit,  as  if  die  same  were  included  in  this  Lease;  provided  mat  if  after  creation  of  apooled  unit,  a  well  or  mine  drilled 
on  the  unit  area,  other  than  on  the  land  covered  hereby  and  included  in  the  unit,  which  well  is  not  classified  as  the  type>of  well  for  which  the,  uritt  was  created  (oil,  gas  or 
other  mineral  as  the  case  may  be),  such  well  ormine.  shall  be  considered  a  dry  hole  for  purposes  of*  applying  die  additional  drilling and^reworking  provisions  of  Paragraph 
6  hereof.  If  an  oil  well  On  an  oil  unit,  which  includes  all  or  aportion  of  the  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  a  gas  well,  or  if  a  gas  well  on  a  gas  unit,  which  includes  all  or 
a  portion  of  die  Lease  Premises,  is  reclassified  as  an  oil  well,  the  date  of  such  reclassification  shall  be  considered  as  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  for  purposes  of 
applying  the  additional  drilling  and  reworking  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  hereof  as  to  all  leases  any  part  of  which  are  included  in  the  unit  dfterthan  theleased  premises  on 
which  the  well  is  located.  For  the  purpose  of  computing  royalties  to  which  owners  of  royalties  and  payments  out  of  production  and  each  of  them  shjjH?be  entitled  on 
production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  from  each  pooled  unit,  mere  shall  be  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  included  in  said  unit  (or  to  eachj5ej>ai^K  tract  within  the 

fiEP  OAG  Prod  8S  Mod/Uib/.  JI8U  lTMlOB/Homwwner  Nesotiatsd  Lease  Page  1  of  5  Initial 


unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  a  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  after  deducting  that  used  for  operations  on 
the  unit.  Such  allocation  shall  be  on  an  acreage  basis  -  that  is,  there  shall  be  allocated  to  the  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  pooled  unit  (or  to  each 
separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  Lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  pro  rata  portion  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  produced  from  the  unit  which  the 
number  of  surface  acres  covered  by  this  Lease  (or  in  each  separate  tract)  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit  As  used  in 
this  paragraph  the  words,  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part 
of  the  Lease  Premises.  Royalties  hereunder  shall  he  computed  on  the  portion  of  such  production,  whether  it  be  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  so  allocated  to  the  Lease  Premises 
and  included  in  the  unit  just  as  though  such  production  were  from  such  land.  Production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  as  production  from  agas  pooled  unit  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit 
from  which  it  is  producing  and  not  from  an  oil  pooled  unit  Any  pooled  unit  designated  by  Lessee  in  .accordance  with  the  terms  hereof  may  be  dissolved  by  Lessee  by 
instrument  filed  for  record  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  county  in  which  the  Lease  Premises  is  situated  at  any  time  after  completion  of  a  dry  hole  or  cessation  of 
production  on  said  unit 

6.  If  at  the  expiration  of  die  Primary  Term,  oil,  gas.  or  other  mineral  is  not  being  produced  on  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith,  but  Lessee  is  then 
engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon  within  180  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  shall 
remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of  any  additional  well  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and 
if  they  resuit  in  the  production  of  oil.  gas,  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled 
therewith.  If,  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  oil.  gas  or  oUier  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith, 
the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  within  ISO  days  after  the 
cessation  of  such  production,  but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  Lessee  continues  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  said  well  or  for  drilling  or  reworking  of 
any  additional  well  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas.  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil.  gas,  or 
other  mineral  is  produced  from  the  Lease  Premises,  or  from  land  pooled  (herewith.  In  the  event  a  well  or  wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought 
in  on  adjacent  land  and  within  660*  Feel  of  and  draining  the  Lease  Premises,  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  lime  during  or  after  die  expiration  of  this  Lease  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  the  Lease  Premises, 
including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  all  casing.  When  necessary  for  utilization  of  the  surface  for  some  intended  use  by  Lessor  and  upon  request  of  Lessor  or  when 
deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  for  protection  of  the  pipeline.  Lessee  will  bury  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth,  and  no  well  shall  be  drilled  whhin  two  hundred  (200*) 
feel  of  any  residence  or  bam  now  on  the  Lease  Premises  without  Lessor's  consent. 

8.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns:  but  no 
change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  dimmish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not 
limited  to.  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement  of  production;  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  forty-five 
(45)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished  by  registered  U.S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or  instruments 
evidencing  same.  In  the  event  of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  Lease 
or  of  a  portion  thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder.  Lessee  may  withhold  payment  thereof  unless  and  until 
furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument  executed  by  all  such  parties  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

9.  Breach  by  Lessee  ofany  obligation  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  Lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created 
hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  mis 
Lease,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing  ofthe  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  such 
notice  in  which  to  commence  compliance  with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  Lease. 

1 0.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  the  Lease  Premises  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  its  option  may  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien 
upon  the  Lease  Premises,  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  if  Lessee  docs  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  right  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties  accruing 
hereunder  toward  satisfying  same.  When  required  by  state,  federal  or  other  law,  Lessee  may  withhold  taxes  with  respect  to  royalty  and  other  payments  hereunder  and  remit 
the  amounts  withheld  to  the  applicable  taxing  authority  for  the  credit  of  Lessor.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  if 
Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  on,  in  or  under  the  Lease  Premises  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  purports  to  cover 
the  whole  or  a  fractional  interest,  the  royalties,  bonus  and  shut-in  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  shall  be  reduced  in  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  bears  to  the  whole  and 
undivided  fee  and  in  accordance  with  the  nature  of  the  estate  of  which  Lessor  is  seized.  Should  any  one  or  more  of  the  parties  named  above  as  Lessor  fail  to  execute  this 
Lease,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  binding  upon  the  party  or  parties  executing  same.  Jf  title  investigation  for  Lessee  results  in  a  reduction  or  increase  of  bonus  consideration 
payable  to  Lessor,  the  resulLing  bonus  payment  shall  be  deemed  for  all  purposes  to  be  paid  to  Lessor  on  the  date  when  Lessee's  check  (in  substitution  for  any  pre-delivered 
draft)  is  delivered  to  Lessor  prior  to  its  due  date  or,  prior  to  its  due  date  is  mailed  to  Lessor  at  the  last  known  address  provided  by  Lessor. 

1 1  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  mis  Lease,  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  thereon  or 
on  land  pooled  therewith  or  from  producing  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  therefrom  or  from  land  pooled  therewith  by  reason  of  scarcity  or  of  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use 
equipment  or  material,  or  by  operation  of  force  maieure.  any  federal  or  state  law  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  then  while  so  prevented, 
Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended,  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  mis  Lease  shall  be 
extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  gas  or  other  minerals  from 
the  Lease  Premises  or  land  pooled  therewith,  and  the  lime  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  Lease  to  the  conlrary 


12.  Surracc  Use  Restriction:  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  herein.  Lessee  agrees  that  it  shall  have  iro  right  to  use  the  surface  ofthe 
Lease  Premises  to  exercise  any  of  the  rights  granted  hereunder  without  first  obtaining  Lessor's  written  consent  This  provision  shall  in  no  way  restrict  Lessee's 
exploration  of  or  production  from  the  Lease  Premises  by  means  of  wells  drilled  on  other  lands  but  entering  or  bottomed  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Any  wells  directionally  or 
horizontally  drilled  or  operated  under  the  Lease  Premises  with  bottomhole  locations  (for  vertical  wells)  or  with  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (for  horizontal  wells)  on  the 
Lease  Premises  shall  be  regarded  as  if  the  wells  were  drilled  on  the  Lease  Premises.  Lessee  agrees  that  any  drilling  under  the  Lease  Premises  shall  commence  at  and 
continue  at  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500*)  from  the  surface  ofthe  earth.  In  addition  to  Lessee's  other  rights  under  this  Lease.  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee  a 
subsurface  easement  to  drill  and  operate  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  under  and  through  the  Lease  Premises  to  reach  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  and  which  wells 
have  bottom  hole  locations  (if  a  vertical  well)  or  horizontal  drainhole  locations  (if  a  horizontal  well)  on  lands  not  covered  by  this  Lease  or  land  pooled  therewith.  Lessee 
agrees  that  this  subsurface  easement  shall  commence  at  and  continue  at  all  depths  below  five  hundred  feet  (500')  from  the  surface  of  the  earth. 

13  Except  as  expressly  provided  above  m  Paragraph  3,  Lessor's  royalty  may  not  be  charged  directly,  or  indirectly,  with  any  of  the  expenses  of  production, 
gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  processing,  or  treating  the  gas  produced  from  the  land  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  inlet  of  a  gas  pipeline  evacuating  gas  from  the 
Lease  Premises.  After  delivery  at  said  inlet.  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  costs  and  expenses,  including  transportation,  to  the  point  of  sale. 

14.    Each  singular  pronoun  herein  shall  include  the  plural  whenever  applicable. 

3  5.  Pot  convenience,  tliis  instrument  may  be  executed  in  multiple  counterparts  and  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  for  recording  purposes  their  respective  signature 
page  and  acknowledgments  may  be  removed  from  their  respective  counterpart  and  attached  to  a  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  and  for  all  purposes  and  obligations 
hereunder  this  shall  be  considered  as  one  single  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease. 

1 6.  Lessor  shall,  upon  the  request  of  Lessee,  use  its  best  efforts  in  assisting  Lessee  in  obtaining  a  subordination  of  Deed  of  Trust  or  sim  ilar  security  instrument  that 
may  aJftct  the  Lease  Premises.  Additionally,  in  the  event  Lessor  receives  a  notice  of  default  acceleration  of  loan,  or  notice  of  sale  under  a  Deed  of  Trust  or  other  security 
instrument  affecting  the  Lease  Premises,  Lessor  shall  immediately  provide  copies  of  any  such  notice,  and  all  additional  relevant  facts,  to  Lessee.  In  this  regard,  Lessor 
shall  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests  of  Lessee. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


notwithstanding. 


Title: 


Title: 


HEP  O&C  Prod  SS  M«flJr1)/,  NST.1  lOOIO^Hcmwwner  Nctfotraied  LcafC 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  § 

BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared 


the  ffcregoing  i 


known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the 


day  of. 


J  200S. 


'Mm 


^jSWWt  SHAD  PENNINGTON 

!l4!S0ft  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 

^iTL!  My  Commission  Expires 

^  August  03, 2011 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of, 


[ignature  of  Noi 

iShck^  refill 


SEAL: 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires: 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS^  § 

county  of  ?&rr&s2i\ 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared 


known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is  subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she 
executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed,  and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the    ~2-     day  of  (Jcdo&&/' 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State 


2008. 


#f%      shad  PENNINGTON    ~||  Signature  of  Notary 

'■-  %   Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
'*&F\<*M     My  Commission  Expires 
August  03, 201 1 


SEAL: 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires: 


Corporate  Acknowledgment 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me,  on  this  day  of 

 ,  2008,  by  


of 


(Name  of  officer) 

 ,a_ 


(state  of  incorporation) 


(Title  of  officer) 
corporation, 


(Name  of  corporation) 

on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  and  year  last  above  written. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 

Signature  of  Notary:  .  


SEAL: 


HEP  G&G  Prod  88  Mnd/Uib/,  NSU 1 00  lOS/Ho-nec-wner  Negotiated  Lease 


(Print  Name  of  Notary  Here) 
My  Commission  Expires:  


Page  3  of 5 


Initial 


Exhibit  "Aw 
Land  Description 

Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated    C-    day  of\  ,  2008, 

by  and  between,  HEP  LLC,  as  Lessee  and  Gary  W.  Bruner  and  wife,  Teresa  A.  Brunei-,  as  Lessor. 

Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  insert  the  Acreage,  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  below,  if  it  is  not  already 
included.  From  time  to  time  Lessee  may  determine  that  some  part  or  all  of  the  Lease  Premises  should  be  more  specifically 
described,  in  which  case  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for 
such  re-description. 

0.3795  acre(s)  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  Debbie  Morris  Survey,  Abstract  No.  993,  and  being  Lot  33,  Block  B, 
Hudnall  Farm,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Keller,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  according  to  the  Plat  thereof  recorded  in 
Volume/Cabinet  A,  Page/Slide  4763  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  being  further  described  in  that 
certain  Warranty  Deed  with  Vendor's  lien  recorded  on  5/15/2002  as  Instrument  No.  D202133446  of  the  Official  Records  of 
Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


After  Recording  Return  to: 

HARDING  COMPANY 

13465  MIDWAY  ROAD,  STE.  400 

DALLAS,  TEXAS  75244 

PHONE  (214)  361-4292 

FAX  (214)  750-7351 


HEP  OftG  Prod  S3  Mod/UrW,  NSU  lOfllO&HomeDwner  Negotiated  Lease 


Page4of5 


ADDENDUM  TO  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 


In  the  event  that  any  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  any  of  the  following  paragraph  shall  conflict  with  any  of  the  terms  and  provisions 
of  any  of  the  preceding  paragraphs  of  this  lease,  then  the  terms  and  provisions  of  these  following  paragraphs  shall  control  and  take 
precedence. 


1)  It  is  specifically  understood  and  agreed  that  this  lease  covers  only  oil,  gas  and  associated  liquid  or  liquiflable  or  gaseous 
hydrocarbons  and  any  sulphur  as  may  be  necessarily  and  incidentally  produced  therewith.  The  term  "covered  minerals"  as  used 
in  this  lease  shall  refer  only  to  the  foregoing  minerals. 

2)  All  royalty  payments  on  the  actual  production  of  covered  minerals  shall  be  due  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the 
end  of  the  month  during  which  the  production  of  such  minerals  occurred.  In  addition  to  any  other  remedies  at  law  or  in  equity 
which  may  be  available  to  Lessor,  all  such  royally  payments  not  timely  made  shall  bear  interest  beginning  at  the  end  of  such 
120-day  period  at  the  rate  of  twelve  percent  (12%)  per  annum,  until  paid.  In  the  event  a  title  opinion  is  prepared  by  outside 
counsel  retained  by  Lessee  covering  the  leased  premises  in  which  title  defects  affecting  Lessor's  interest  in  the  leased  premises 
(other  than  title  defects  pertaining  to  the  leasehold  interest/working  interest  hereby)  are  pointed  out,  the  time  from  the  date  on 
which  such  title  opinion  is  delivered  to  Lessee  until  such  title  defects  are  cured  shall  not  be  included  in  the  one  hundred  twenty 
(120)  day  period  provided  for  herein. 

3)  Lessor  and  Lessee  agree  that  in  the  event  production  is  obtained  hereunder  pursuant  to  which  Lessor  executes  a  division  order 
or  division  orders  (or  transfer  order  or  transfer  orders)  that  contain  terms  and  provisions  which  conflict  with  or  vary  the  terms 
and  provisions  of  this  lease,  the  terms  and  provisions  hereof  shall  control  and  Lessor  shall  always  be  entitled  to  receive  royalties 
on  the  basis  herein  provided  irrespective  of  whether  such  payments  are  made  by  Lessee  or  by  a  third  party  purchaser  of 
production.  Any  division  order  or  transfer  order  that  Lessor  executes  shall  be  executed  solely  for  the  purpose  of  confirming 
Lessor's  interest  in  the  production  of  covered  minerals  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  and  in  no  event  shall 
the  execution  thereof  be  effective  to  ratify  or  revive  this  lease  irrespective  of  any  language  therein  to  the  contrary.  Furthermore, 
the  execution  by  Lessor  of  a  division  order  in  favor  of  a  third  party  purchaser  of  production  shall  not  relieve  Lessee  of  Lessee's 
obligations  hereunder  to  pay  royalties  timely  and  properly  to  Lessor  in  the  event  such  third  party  purchaser  declares  bankruptcy 
or  otherwise  fails  or  refuses  to  pay  royalties  in  a  timely  and  proper  manner.  The  royalties  payable  under  the  Lease  will  be  free  of 
all  production  and  post-production  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  prior  to  the  point  of  first  sale.  However,  any  such  costs  that  result  in 
enhancing  the  value  of  the  oil,  gas,  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production 
so  long  as  the  deductions  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  costs  and  the  total  amount  of  the  costs  do  not  exceed  the  amount  of  the 
enhancement  in  value. 

4)  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  revise,  subject  to  the  restrictions  on  unit  size  set  forth  in  Paragraph  5  of  the  lease,  a  unit  formed 
pursuant  to  the  lease.  To  effect  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and 
stating  the  effective  date  of  revision. 

5)  Upon  the  later  of  the  expiration  of  (i)  1 80  days  following  the  primary  term  or  (ii)  any  continuous  drilling  obligations  ongoing  at 
me  end  of  the  primary  term,  this  lease  shall  terminate  automatically  as  to  all  of  the  mineral  estate  lying  more  than  one  hundred 
(100)  feet  below  the  deeper  of  (x)  the  deepest  producing  horizon  in  which  Lessee  has  completed  a  well  as  a  commercial 
producer  of  covered  minerals  on  the  lands  covered  by  this  lease  or  on  other  lands,  if  any,  pooled  or  unitized  with  said  lands,  or 
(y)  the  Barnett  Shale  formation.  Upon  termination  of  this  lease  as  to  such  depths,  Lessor  and  Lessor's  heirs,  legal  and  personal 
representatives,  successors,  lessees  or  assigns,  thereafter  shall  have  the  right  to  reasonable  use  of  the  leased  premises,  but 
without  unreasonable  interference  with  Lessee's  rights,  for  the  purposes  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting  and  drilling  for, 
producing  and  owning  covered  minerals  from  the  depths  as  to  which  this  lease  has  terminated. 

6)  Lessee  shall  be  responsible  for  and  agree  to  make  reasonable  payment  for  damages  to  the  surface  of  the  land,  livestock,  crops, 
timber  and  improvements  which  are  caused  by  its  operations  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  turther  agrees  that  upon 
completion  or  abandonment  of  any  well  drilled  on  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  shall  restore  the  premises  to  as  near  its  original 
condition  as  is  reasonably  practicable. 

7)  The  right  of  Lessee  to  maintain  this  lease  in  force  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  pursuant  Paragraph  3  of  the  lease  is  limited 
in  time  to  a  period  of  no  more  than  three  (3)  cumulative  years  beyond  the  end  of  the  primary  term.  The  amount  of  annual 
shut-in  royalties  payable  under  this  lease  is  ten  dollars  ($10.00)  acre  of  land  covered  by  this  lease. 

8)  Lessee,  for  Lessee  and  Lessee's  sublessees,  successors  and  assigns,  shall  defend  Lessor  at  Lessee's  sale  cost  and  expense  from 
and  against  and  hereby  indemnifies  and  holds  Lessor  harmless  from  and  against  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  disputes,  losses, 
costs,  fees,  expenses,  damages,  liabilities,  settlements,  interest,  penalties,  administrative  and  judicial  proceedings  and  orders, 
judgments  and  enforcement  actions  of  any  kind  or  nature  arising  out  of,  connected  with  or  resulting  from  the  granting  of  this 
lease  or  Lessee's  operations  or  actions  hereunder.  NOTWITHSTANDING  the  FOREGOrNG,  IN  NO  event  SHALL  LESSEE 

INDEMNIFY,  DEFEND  OR  BE  LIABLE  UNDER  THIS  LEASE  FOR  (i)  ANY  CLAIMS,  DAMAGES,  JUDGEMENTS,  PENALTIES, 
LIABILITIES,  OR  COSTS  CAUSED  BY  OR  ARISING  OUT  OF  THE  NEGLIGENCE  OR  WILLFUL  MISCONDUCT  OF  LESSOR,  ITS 
AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  TENANTS,  GUESTS,  INVITEES  AND  THEIR  RESPECTIVE  SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS  OR  (II)  LOST  PROFITS, 
EXEMPLARY,  PUNITIVE,  SPECIAL,  INCIDENTAL,  INDIRECT,  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  OR  THE  LUCE,  EACH  OF  WHICH  IS 

HEREBY  EXCLUDED  BY  THIS  lease.  The  provisions  and  obligations  contained  in  this  paragraph  shall  survive  the  termination  of 
this  lease  for  a  period  of  two  (2)  years. 

9)  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  the  interest  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder  by,  through  and  under  Lessor, 
but  not  otherwise 


10)  If,  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  a  portion  or  portions  of  the  leased  premises  are  pooled  or  unitized  with  other  lands 
not  covered  by  this  lease  so  as  to  form  a  pooled  unit  or  units,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  production  from  such  unit  or 
units  will  maintain  this  lease  in  force  only  as  to  the  portion  or  portions  of  the  leased  premises  included  in  such  unit  or  units.  Any 
land  not  so  held  by  production  or  operations,  or  otherwise  being  maintained  by  some  other  provision  of  this  lease,  at  the  end  of 
the  primary  term  of  this  lease  shall  revert  to  Lessor  free  and  clear  of  the  terms  of  this  lease  (other  than  Lessee's  subsurface 
easement  granted  pursuant  to  Paragraph  12),  with  exception  that  in  the  event  Lessee  is,  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  engaged 
in  drilling  a  well  on  the  land  herein  leased,  that  such  entire  lease  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  continuous  drilling 
operations  are  being  conducted  on  such  property,  and  such  continuous  drilling  operations  shall  be  construed  to  mean  that  no 
more  than  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  shall  elapse  between  the  completion  or  abandonment  as  a  dry  hole  or^as  an  oil  and/or 
gas  well  and  the  commencement  of  operations  for  the  drilling  of  a  subsequent  well  on  such  property. 

mP  OfeGProd  BS  Mod/Urb/,  NSU 1001  DS/Homeowner Negotiated  Lease  Page  5  of  5  Ini 


