Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING 
INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY 
NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER, 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  effective  this   fl^V'  day  of  /SSfo&j^ffi/  2008,  by  and  between  K.  D.  RAE  MARTIN,  a  single  person,  215 

East  Trammel  Avenue,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76140,  as  Lessor,  and  THUNDERBIRD  OIL  &  GAS,  L.L.C.,  515  Fourth  Street,  Graham,  Texas  76450,  as  Lessee. 
All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were 
prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  "leased  premises,"  for  the  purpose  of  drilling  beneath  "using  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  methods  only"  without  exploring 
drilling,  or  operating  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises.  Said  leased  premises  being  described  as  follows: 

All  of  that  0.347  acre  lot,  tract  or  parcel  of  land,  more  or  less,  being  Lot  1,  Block  1,  Avirett  Addition,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Everman,  out  of  the 
Shelby  County  School  Land  Survey,  Abstract  No.  1375,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,according  to  the  Revised  Plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388-168, 
Page  35,  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  the  same  tract  described  in  that  certain  Warranty  Deed  dated  March  23,  1995,  from  Rob 
C.  Thompson  to  K,  D.  Rae  Martin,  filed  of  record  at  Volume  11915,  Page  190,  of  the  Official  Public  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  containing  0.347  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or 
otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in 
association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as 
hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned 
by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at 
Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is 
otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead 
or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead 
market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing 
price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-five 
percent  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes 
and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in 
the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest 
preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either 
shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of 
maintaining  this  lease,  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay 
shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or 
before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production 
therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well 
or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations 
or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  Lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which 
shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by 
check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  U.S.  Mail  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the 
Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason 
fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository 
agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  If  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if 
all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph 
6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee 
commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  weH  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary 
term,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Ixssee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of 
more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is 
production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar 
circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b) 
to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill 
exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all 
depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or 
proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests. 
The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas 
well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas 
well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction 
to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental 
authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well"  means  a  well 
with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard 
lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment:  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross 
completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross 
completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased 
premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is 
calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the 
unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder, 
and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to 
conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 


Paid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 

T:\Thunderbird  Oil  &  Gas  LLOCity  of  Everrnan\Evennaii  Holdout  &aup\Leases_Check.Temp\Avirett  B1  LI  -  K  D  Rae  Marti  nVAvire  It  Bl  LI  KD  Rae  Martin  25%.  kt.wpd 


Page  1 


describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue 
of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating 
the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any 
part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  ftill  mineral 
estate  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60 
days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to 
shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any 
time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository, 
either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall 
not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by 
this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this 
lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the 
interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  alt  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall 
be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor 
disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall 
be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so 
prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

1 1.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase 
from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming 
effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the 
Offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and 
preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in 
the  offer. 

12.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is 
litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

13.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  surface  or  mineral  estate  in  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  of  or  interest  therein. 
AH  warranties  that  might  arise  by  common  law  or  statute,  including  but  not  limited  to  section  5.023  of  the  Texas  Property  Code  (or  its  successor),  are 
excluded.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to 
satisfy  itself  as  to  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures. 

14.  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises. 
If  Lessee  exercises  such  option,  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself 
out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee 
may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  that  such  claim  has  been 
resolved. 

15.  This  lease  shall  also  be  subject  to  the  terms  and  provisions  of  the  attached  Exhibit  "A"  which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signatory  and  the 
signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the    t  / 


JARROD  STEPHENS 


7*!  MY  COMMISSION  EXPIRES 
$        January  14, 2012 


,  2008,  by  K.  D.  RAE  MARTIN. 


Pitid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 

T:\Thunderbird  Oil  &  Gas  LLC\City  of  Ewrman\Everman  Holdout  Group\Leases_Cheek  Temp\Aviret1  Bl  LI  -  K  D  Rae  MartiiMvirett  B I  LI  KDRaeMaitin  25%ki.wpd 


Page  2 


Exhibit  "A: 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  Certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated  IjfjfJ^^^jf      fA  2008,  by  and  between  .K.  D.  RAE  MARTIN,  as  Lessor  and 

THUNDERBIRD  OIL  &  GAS,  L.L.C.,  as  Lessee,  covering  0.347  acres,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  Shelby  County  School  Land  Survey,  Abstract  No.  1375,  in 
Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

In  the  event  of  conflict  with  the  provisions  of  the  standard  form,  then  it  is  expressly  understood,  agreed  and  provided  by  and  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  that  the 
following  terms,  covenants,  conditions,  provisions,  and  limitations  shall  prevail  and  control  over  any  other  provisions  in  the  Lease  to  the  contrary,  to  wit: 

1 .  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  two  (2)  years  from  the  expiration  of  the  original  primary  term. 
This  option  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  or  Lessee's  assigns  at  any  time  during  the  last  year  of  the  original  primary  term  by  paying  to  Lessor  herein,  or  his 
heirs,  successors  or  assigns,  an  additional  bonus  equal  to  the  bonus  dollars  originally  paid  for  this  lease.  Lessee  or  Lessee's  assigns  shall  exercise  such 
option  by  placing  written  notice  of  such  action  in  the  U.S.  Mail,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  at  the  above  address,  or  by  delivery  of  such  notice  to  Lessor,  in 
either  case,  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  hereof. 

2.  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor 
under  this  lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction,  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating, 
dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into 
marketable  form;  however,  any  such  costs  which  result  in  enhancing  the  value  of  the  marketable  oil,  gas  or  other  products  to  receive  a  better  price  may  be 
deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are  based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such  enhancements.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the 
contrary,  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  paid  monies  calculated  on  the  amount  received  by  Lessee  from  a  non-affiliated  third  party  purchaser. 

3.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  should  Lessee  exercise  its  option  under  paragraph  6  of  the  oil  and  gas  lease  to  unitize  or  pool  this  acreage 
for  the  production  or  oil,  gas,  or  related  substances,  the  entire  tract  must  be  included  in  the  unit. 

4.  By  the  acceptance  hereof,  Lessee  agrees  that  no  drilling,  prospecting,  or  mining  operations  will  be  conducted,  nor  any  pipelines  or  any  structures  or  any  type 
facilities  will  be  constructed  upon  the  surface  of  the  herein  leased  premises  without  the  consent  of  Lessor  herein;  but  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  prospect, 
drill,  mine,  and  produce  said  minerals  for  said  land  by  operations  which  it  may  conduct  on  adjoining  or  nearby  lands  through  the  drilling,  operating,  and 
maintaining  of  directional  and/or  horizontal  wells  on  such  adjoining  or  nearby  lands,  or  by  operations  which  it  may  conduct  upon  lands  with  which  the 
herein  premises  may  be  pooled. 

5.  Lessor  does  hereby  grant,  transfer  and  convey  unto  Lessee  a  right-of-way  and  easement  to  drill  and  operate  under  the  surface  of  and  through  the  lands 
described  herein  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto,  regardless  of  any  depth  limitations  set  out  therein,  one  or  more  directional  wells  to  be  bottomed  on  lands 
other  than  the  lands  described  herein,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling  mining  and  operating  for,  developing  and  producing  oil,  gas  and  associated 
hydrocarbons  under  the  terms  of  any  oil  and  gas  leases(s)  now  owned  or  hereafter  acquired  by  Lessee,  covering  lands  other  than  the  lands  described  herein 
and  to  take  any  and  or  all  other  actions  necessary  or  desirable  in  the  rights  granted  herein.  This  right-of-way  and  easement  shall  remain  in  full  force  and 
effect  for  the  primary  term  of  the  hereof  and  as  long  thereafter  as  used  by  Lessee  for  the  purposes  therein  granted.  Lessee  agrees  to  use  the  subsurface 
easement  only  in  a  manner  that  will  not  damage  or  interfere  with  the  use  of  the  surface  and  agrees  to  indemnify  the  lessor  regarding  same. 

6.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary  herein  contained,  the  payment  of  shut-in  royalty  as  provided  in  paragraph  3  of  the  oil  and  gas  lease,  shall  not 
maintain  this  lease  in  force  by  such  payment  alone  for  more  than  two  (2)  consecutive  years  beyond  the  primary  term  or  any  extension  thereof.  Further 
notwithstanding  the  provisions  contained  in  paragraph  4  of  the  oil  and  gas  lease,  the  annual  shut-in  payment  amount  shall  be  ten  dollars  per  net  mineral  acre. 

7.  Lessee,  at  Lessee's  own  expense,  will  provide  and  maintain  in  force  while  any  well  is  being  drilled  on  the  leased  premises  liability  insurance  in  the  amount 
of  at  least  $1,000,000.00  covering  Lessor  as  well  as  Lessee,  for  any  liability  for  property  damage  or  personal  injury  arising  as  a  result  of  Lessee's  conducting 
operations.  This  insurance  is  to  be  carried  by  one  or  more  insurance  companies  authorized  to  transact  business  in  Texas.  Lessee  will  furnish  Lessor  with 
certificates  of  all  insurance  required  by  this  Lease. 

8.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  DEFEND,  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S  PARTNERS,  REPRESENTATIVES, 
SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS,  AND  THEIR  OFFICERS,  REPRESENTATIVES,  EMPLOYEES,  AND  AGENTS,  AGAINST  ALL  COSTS,  EXPENSES, 
CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE  OR  KIND,  INCLUDING  BUT  NOT  LIMITED  TO  CLAIMS  FOR 
INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  AND  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ATTORNEY 
FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  ALL  COURT  COSTS  AND  OTHER  EXPENSES  INCURRED,  ARISING  OUT  OF,  RESULTING  FROM,  OR  IN  ANY 
WAY  CONNECTED  WITH,  LESSEE'S  OPERATIONS  AND  ACTIVITIES  ON  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  ADJACENT  OR  POOLED  LAND  OR  LESSEE'S 
MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND  OR  ANY  POOLED  LAND  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL 
REQUIREMENTS  IMPOSED  ON  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS, 
EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  ON  ITS  BEHALF  OR  UNDER  ITS 
DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  WHETHER  ACTING  WITHIN  THE  SCOPE  OF  THEIR  EMPLOYMENT  OR  NOT,  AND  WHETHER  NEGLIGENT  OR 
NOT. 

9.  Lessee  must  comply  with  all  valid  laws,  ordinances  and  regulations,  whether  state,  federal  or  municipal,  applicable  to  the  premises,  The  use  which  lessee 
makes  and  intends  to  make  of  the  premises  will  not  result  in  the  disposal  or  release  of  any  hazardous  substance  or  solid  waste  on  or  to  the  premises.  In  the 
event  that  any  hazardous  substances,  solid  wastes  or  other  pollutants  are  disposed  or  released  on  and/or  under  the  premises  resulting  in  the  contamination  or 
pollution  to  the  premises  or  any  adjoining  property,  arising  out  of  said  contamination  or  pollution,  caused  by  or  consented  to  by  the  lessee,  then  lessee  shall 
indemnify  and  hold  harmless  the  lessor  and  lessor's  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  successors,  and  assigns,  from  and  against  any  and  all  liability  from  the 
rules  and  regulations  of  the  Texas  Railroad  Commission,  the  comprehensive  environmental  response,  compensation,  and  liability  act  of  1980,  the  resource 
conservation  and  recovery  act  of  1976,  or  any  other  state  or  federal  statute,  rule  or  regulation  now  in  existence  or  hereinafter  enacted  relating  to  such 
substances  or  waste  and  lessee  has  the  absolute  responsibility  for  all  cleanup  of  said  pollution  or  contamination  or  reclamation  of  the  premises  and  all  costs 
and  expenses  thereof.  Lessee  shall  conduct  all  activities  so  as  not  to  pollute  or  contaminate  all  fresh  water  sources  including  adjacent  or  nearby  lakes  and 
streams. 

10.  In  the  event  that  the  leased  premises  are  subject  to  covenants,  deed  restrictions,  drilling  ordinances,  permit  requirements  from  any  authority,  or  any  other 
impediment  that  would  not  permit  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  methods  from  a  location  outside  the  subdivision  or  addition  identified  in  the  leased 
premises  or  on  additional  tracts  with  which  the  Leased  premises  are  pooled,  then  Lessor  hereby  consents  to  and  irrevocably  designates  Lessee  as  Lessor's 
agent  to  acquire  permits  and/or  take  steps  to  amend,  modify  or  change  any  covenants,  deed  restrictions,  or  remove  any  other  impediment  using  lawful  means 
so  as  to  allow  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  methods  from  locations  outside  the  subdivision  or  addition  described  in  the  leased  premises.  Lessor  further 
agrees  to  allow  a  high  impact  drilling  permit  in  the  event  that  one  is  required  to  develop  the  mineral  rights,  and  authorizes  Lessee  to  represent  to  any 
authority  that  such  consent  has  been  granted.  Lessee  shall  be  responsible  for  all  cost  and  expense  securing  any  such  change  and  shall  hold  harmless  and 
indemnify  Lessor  from  any  claims  and  expense  incurred  in  securing  any  amendment,  change,  modification  or  permit. 

1 1 .  The  leased  premises  includes  all  of  Lessor's  interest  in  and  to  the  adjacent  roads,  streets,  alleys,  any  easements,  rights  of  way,  tracts  held  in  common  and  any 
other  adjacent  or  nearby  tracts  of  land  in  which  Lessor  holds  an  interest  in  the  oil  and  gas  and  other  minerals. 

12.  Upon  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  or  any  extension  thereof,  this  Lease  shall  terminate  as  to  all  depths  lying  one  hundred  feet 
(100*)  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  from  which  any  well  commenced  in  the  primary  term  or  any  extension 
thereof  is  drilled  and  completed  as  a  well  capable  of  commercial  production  in  paying  quantities  on  any  lands  pooled  with  all  or  part  of  the  Land, 
provided,  however  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on  lands  pooled  with  the  leased  premises,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as 
to  all  depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  operations. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure  or  building  upon 
or  conduct  any  operations  (except  for  geophysical/seismic  operations  as  stated  below)  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased 
premises  by  pooling  as  provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on  other  lands.  Lessee  shall 
make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood  streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  and  lands  pooled 
therewith,  or  otherwise. 


Paid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 

T:\Thiinderbird  Oil  &  Gas  LLC\City  of  EvermarAEvermim  Holdout  Group\Leases^  Check. Temp \Avirett  Bl  LI  -  K  D  Rat  Marti rMvirett  Bl  LI  KD  Rae  Martin  25°/,. kt.wpd 


Page  3 


Lessee  shall  not  have  or  acquire  any  rights  in  and  to  the  water  from  the  leased  premises.  No  surface  water  or  underground  fresh  water  from  the 
leased  premises  will  be  used  for  any  reason,  including  water  flood  or  pressure  maintenance  purposes.  Lessee  shall  comply  with  all  applicable  rules 
on  disposition  of  salt  water,  brine,  or  other  fluids  utilized  in  or  resulting  from  operations,  and  shall  not  cause  or  permit  any  such  substances  to 
damage  or  pollute  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  any  fresh  water  sands  lying  thereunder.  The  leased  premises  shall  not  be  used  for  saltwater 
disposal. 

As  provided  above,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  conduct  geophysical/seismic  operations,  but  only  by  utilizing  the  vibreosis  method,  and  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  all  actual  damages  incurred  to  the  leased  premises  which  directly  result  from  such  geophysical  seismic  operations. 

Nothing  in  this  lease  shall  be  interpreted  as  a  waiver  by  Lessor  of  any  setback  or  other  requirements  under  the  drilling  or  other  applicable 
ordinances  of  the  City  of  Everman. 

14.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling,  completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum, 
taking  into  consideration  reasonably  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the  level  and  nature  of  development  and 
surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites  and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  arc  being  conducted  in  or  near  and  urban  residential 
area.  If  Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  it's  operations,  including  but  not  limited  to  compression  equipment.  Lessee  shall  take 
reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by  installing  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

15.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  this  lease,  the  amount  of  the  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  all  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee 
and  the  Everman  (herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms")  with  respect  to  this  lease,  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the 
Everman  Holdout  Group  ("EHG"),  consisting  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers  including  Margaret  Sides,  Betty  Meininger,  Rae  Barnes, 
Catherine  Walts,  Daniel  Villavicencio,  Pat  Maloney  (hereafter  called  the  "EHG  Negotiating  Committee").  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  spent  by 
the  EHG  and  the  EHG  Negotiating  Committee  in  negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on  behalf  of  Lessor  and  other  property  owners, 
Lessor,  on  behalf  of  the  Lessor  and  Lessor's  agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors,  parents,  subsidiaries,  affiliated  corporations  or  other 
affiliated  entities,  successors,  partners,  principals,  assigns,  attorneys,  servants,  employees,  heirs,  consultants,  and  other  representatives,  does  hereby 
release  and  forever  discharge  EHG  and  the  EHG  Negotiating  Committee  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action, 
costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statutory  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory 
of  recovery,  whether  known  or  unknown,  past,  present,  or  future,  which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  EHG  and  the  EHG 
Negotiating  Committee,  which  relate  to,  arise  from,  or  are  an  any  manner  connected  to  (1)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (ii)  the  negotiation  of  the 
Negotiated  Terms,  (iii)  the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms,  or  (iv)  any  and  all  representations  made  prior, 
during,  and  subsequent  to  Lessor's  execution  of  this  Lease. 


End  of  Exhibit  "A" 


Paid-Up  Oil  and  Gas  Lease 

T:\Thunuerbird  Oil  &  Gas  LLGCity  of  £verman\Everman  Holdout  Group\Leases_Check.Temp\Avirett  Bl  LI  -  K  D  Rae  Marti  n\Avi  ret!  B 1  LI  KD  Rae  Martin  25%.kt.wpd 


Page  4 


THUNDERBIRD  OIL  AND  GAS  LLC 
515  FOURTH  ST 

GRAHAM  TX  76450 

Submitter:  THUNDERBIRD  OIL  AND  GAS  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING-  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$28.00 


D209001338 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  WD 


