Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Feb  03  04:00  PM 


D209028269 


Fee:  $  28.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  4  Pages 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENft/SLrr^^fiSHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/1707)6 

^         OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  T2,  ""day  of  January,  2009,  between  Carlos  E.  Smith  Lacaze  and  Shellie  K.  Smith,  husband  and  wife.  Lessor 
(whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  7325  Mansfield  Cardinal  Road,  Kennedale,  Texas  76060,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is: 
810  Houston  St.,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WITNESSETH: 

1 .  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  Tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  tor,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to 
those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface 
disposal  of  salt  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures 
on  said  land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and  transporting  minerals  produced 
from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby,  nerein  called  "said  land,"  is  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant  .  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

"SEE  ATTACHED  ADDENDUM" 

3.S51  acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  Jesse  Russell  Survey,  Abstract  No.  1328,  being  Tracts  1Band  1B3A,  of  Kennedale,  an  Addition 
to  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  a  Quitclaim  Deed  dated  December  27, 1996  from  Victoria  D.  Castro  and  Oscar  Castro  to 
Carlos  E.  Smith  in  Volume  12621,  Page  506, Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  amendments  thereof,  including  streets, 
easements  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereof,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

This  is  a  non-development  oil,  gas  and  mineral  lease,  whereby  lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any  operation, 
enter  upon  or  in  any  way  disturb  the  surface  of  the  lands  described  herein.  However,  lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize 
said  lands,  or  any  part  thereof,  with  other  lands  to  comprise  an  oil  and/or  gas  development  unit.  It  is  the  intention  of  lessor  to  allow 
lessee  to  explore  for  oil  and/or  gas  without  using  the  surface  of  lessors  land  for  any  operations.  This  clause  shall  take  precedence 
over  any  references  to  surface  operations  contained  within  the  preprinted  portion  of  this  lease. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b) 
as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more 
complete  or  accurate  description  of  saidTand.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder  said  land  shall 
be  deemed  to  contain  3.551  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  oness,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to 
be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
3  years  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  "primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted 

upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal 
1/5         part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average 

posted  market  price  of  such    1/5  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks,  Lessor  s  interest,  in 

either  case  to  bear      1/5  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas 

produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  Lessee.      1/5  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well  or  (2) 

when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  ot  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  J/5  of 
such  qas  and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land  one-tenth  either  in 
kind  or  /alue  at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1. 00)  per  long 
ion.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  and  or  on  tends  with iwhich  said  and  or 
anv  Dortion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  ;n 


terms  ur  lau^eiJiciuie  iu  uoaoww.  n,  oiwiy  umoui  wi™  m**- 

consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  ■  ,  ,  -r          -  --         ,    J(.     .  .  . 

shall  pay  or  tender  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee 
shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary 
this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such i  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  .the 
parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  "be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  weHs  were  producing, 
and  mav  be  deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  deppsitones,  regardless  of  changes  in 
the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  dam  to  be,  entitled  to 
receive  same  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalty  in  the  manner  above 
specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Ussee  may  elect  Any 
payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  checker  draff  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  en titled to  receive LfJ^frt^a 
depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessees  nghtto  release jis  Provided  in 
paragraph  5  hereof  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shairrest  exdusively  on  the  then 
owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pod  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered Iby. lease, 
and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  unrts  containing  not  more  than  80  surfaceacres 
plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  unife  may  be  established  as  to  anv  one  or  more  honzons  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to 
am  wornro  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  §40  surface  acresplus  1 0%  acreage  cJfrancejf  limited  to  one -or  more i  of ^efttem 
(1 )  qas  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  m^ls  j^uced 
m^^lsdassifiedas  gas  wetts  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jurisdiction.  If  larger  units  than  anyof  those  herein  permrtted^ther  at  the 
time  SwShed  or  afte?  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  Required  under  any  mvemmerlaJ  rule  or  order  fcr  the  drilling  or  operation  of a i  wellat a 
regulaV  SrV  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drifted,  drilling,  or  already  dnlfed,  any  such  unit  may  be  esteWs^d  o 
enlarged  to  conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rde.  Lesseesrja ill  exercise  said  option  as  to  each '<^«dunrt 
bv  exSinqan  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Such,  unit  shall  become 
3^^so^da5eF?^dacJ  for  in  said  instrument  orTnstruments  but  if  sajdjnstnjment  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  ther .such  unU 
shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  opbpns  may  be  wx^M  Lessee i  at  any 
time  andfrom  time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations,  or  production i  has  been  estatjs  hed  otheronj sa d 
and or  onthe  portion  of  said  land  induded  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hinder  shaH  be  vahd  and^ective 
for  all  purposesof  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  with  n  the  unit which  arenot  effectively 
Soledor  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  Dart  of  such  unitized  land  sha I  be  considered,  for  al  purposes,  except  the payment  of 
royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  "ease.  There  shall  be  alleged  to  the  land  covered 

to  each  separate  tract  within  (he  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized 
minerals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  awes  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such 
seplra  etad)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be 
_rc° ■  j__J  Jy. '  -H  ~~     i.  .a-.~.~  M„m«t    Hai«™<  r&  m\«ait\/  rt*«amriinn  mvattu  and  anv  other  rjavments  out  of  oroducuon. 


seoarate tract) coverea  oy inis  ease  wunn ine urm Dears iu  uiwiuwi  ihjmuci  ui  sunowoucaiM  ««,  m«-         ™..  *™  — 

considered Mbr  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  produdior Uo  be  the  entire 
SXtiwofunitizXinerals  from  liejand  to  which  aJlocatecTin  the  same  manner  as  th^  ^<n^.^n?af 
The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pureu^t  to  this ^  paragraph  or  ot 
shutnn  royalties  from  a  well  oh  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  (imitation  of  term  requinng  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  ^.^f^^^SS^t 
wfich  ndUdes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transfemng.  any  interest  under  this  lease  <£<^jng, without 
Em  nation i  anv  shut-ir Troyalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this ,  laase  and 
partC PSwninglnterests  ^landTSt  covered  by  thislease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph 5  hereof, 
ex5£rt  mTLesseeSay  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  nn.nerateunless  alTpoQted  leases 
are^eased  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  urnt  established  hereunder  by  filing  for 
fe^irfthe^u^ 

such  unit  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  anytime  and  ^on^ime  to  time  after  Uie 
oriqina  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located  Sub  ect .to  the 
SrSonsofthis  paragraph  4,  a  urftonra  established  hereunder  shall  remain in  force  solongas  any please  subject  thereto  shall  r^ainin^for^Jf 
this Jrase  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended 


or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to 
pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the 
words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  trad  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  aslo  any  other 
part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location 
and/or  access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompiling,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search 
for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil;  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral, 
whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shallextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  notlimited  to.  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 
place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recordowner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 )  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity  and  be  subrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payabTe  to  Lessor 
and/or  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  sped  tied  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  uncivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 2.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  ail  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellborefs)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well. 

1 3.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restncted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 
except  as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


Carlos  E.  Smith  Lacaze  and  Shellie  K.  Smith,  husband  and  wife. 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  theZggJdav  °f-L 


Signature 


Printed 


Notary  Public 


XTO  Energy  Inc. 

By:  ^^^v-  ^  z^^L-Tw^T 
Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr. 

Sr.  Vice  President  -  Land  Administration 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  this  A^day  of  O&UiO/ij  2009,  by  Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr., 
Sr.  Vice  President  -  Land  Administration  of  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation,  on  behalf  of  said 


corporation. 


CHARLA  F.  WILKES 
MTAMNBUC  STATE  OF  TEXAS 
CORlttllON  EIMM: 
0»-0«-2012 


My  commission  expires: 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the 
State  of  Texas 

Printed  Name  of  Notary  Public 


ADDENDUM 


OIL  AND  GAS  ONLY 

Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof  this  lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid 
and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced  through  a  well  bore. 

SPECIAL  WARRANTY  CLAUSE 

Lessor  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  the  leased  premises  against  all  persons  who  lawfully  claim  title  to  the  leased  premises  or 
any  part  thereof,  by,  through  or  under  Lessor,  but  not  otherwise,  and  Lessor  assigns  to  Lessee  any  warranties  of  title  that  were  made  to 
Lessor  and  Lessor's  predecessors. 


