Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Feb  12  02:46  PM 

Fee:  $  28.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  4  Pages 


D209038433 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  Rl£ti?&:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY 
OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE 
PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Texas  Form  88 
Revised  8/05 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

(PAID  UP) 

AGREEMENT,  Made  and  entered  into  this  9^       day  of  37j  Y\)  }  AJflJhiOQ  by  and  between  Bruce  Edward  Grizzle  and  Nora 
Jane  Grizzle,  husband  and  wife,  whose  address  is  246  Cariin  Road,  ManafElti,  Texas  76063,  Party  of  the  first  part,  hereinafter 
called  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  and  Grande  Energy  Company  d/b/a  Gfandeco  Corp.,  whose  address  is  P.O.  Box  470988,  Fort 
Worth,  Texas  76147-0988,  Party  of  the  second  part,  hereinafter  called  Lessee. 

1.  WITNESSETH.  That  the  said  Lessor,  for  and  in  consideration  of  ONE  OR  MORE  DOLLARS,  cash  In  hand  paid,  receipt  of  which  is 
hereby  acknowledged  and  of  the  covenants  and  agreements  hereinafter  contained  on  the  part  of  Lessee  to  be  paid,  kept  and 
performed,  has  granted,  demised,  leased  and  let  and  by  these  presents  does  grant,  demise,  lease  and  let  unto  the  said  Lessee,  for  the 
purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  by  geophysical  or  other  means,  prospecting,  drilling,  and  operating  for  and  producing  oil  and  all  gas 
of  whatsoever  nature  or  kind,  including  all  associated  hydrocarbons  produced  In  a  liquid  or  gaseous  form,  also  including  sulphur 
produced  in  association  with  oil  or  gas,  hereinafter  sometimes  collectively  referred  to  as  "oil  and  gas",  injecting  gas,  waters,  other  fluids, 
air  and  other  gaseous  substances  into  subsurface  strata,  laying  pipelines,  storing  oil,  building  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines  and 
other  structures  and  things  hereon  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of,  treat,  process,  store  and  transport  said  oil  and  gas  and  other 
products  manufactured  therefrom,  the  following  described  land,  together  with  any  reversionary  rights,  riparian  rights  and  after-  acquired 
interest,  therein  situated;  in  the  County  of  TARRANT,  State  of  Texas, 

See  Exhibit  A. 

This  is  a  non-development  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  whereby  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  shall  not  conduct  any  operations, 
as  defined  herein,  on  the  surface  of  said  lands.  However,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  said  lands,  or  part  thereof 
with  other  lands  to  comprise  an  oil  and/or  gas  development  unit. 

and  containing    0.559  acres,  more  or  less. 

It  is  agreed  that  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of  3  years  from  date  (herein  called  primary  term)  and  as  long 
thereafter  as  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  is  produced  or  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  land  by  the  Lessee.  In  consideration  of 
the  premises  the  said  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees: 

1st.  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipeline  to  which  it  may  connect  its  wells,  25  %  part  of  all  oil  {including  but  not 
limited  to  condensate  and  distillate)  produced  and  saved  from  the  leased  premises.  Lessor's  interest  to  bear  its  proportionate  cost  of 
treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipeline  oil. 

2nd.  To  pay  Lessor  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  a  royalty  of  25  %  of  the 
net  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  the  production,  severance  and  other  excise  taxes 
and  the  cost  Incurred  by  lessee  in  delivering,  processing,  compressing,  transporting,  or  otherwise  making  such  gas  or  other  substances 
merchantable,  said  payments  to  be  made  monthly.  If  gas  from  any  well  or  wells  on  the  premises  capable  of  producing  gas  in 
commercial  quantities  Is  not  sold  or  used  off  the  premises  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gas  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  or  more,  during 
which  time  there  is  no  other  production  from  the  leased  premises,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  as  royalty  for  such  annual  period  a 
sum  of  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  net  acre  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  end  of  such  annual  period. 

If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  is  conducting  operations  for  drilling,  completing  or  reworking  a  well,  this  lease 
nevertheless  shall  continue  as  long  as  such  operations  are  prosecuted  or  additional  operations  are  commenced  and  prosecuted 
(whether  on  the  same  or  successive  wells)  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  days,  and  if  production  is  discovered,  this  lease  shall 
continue  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas,  are  produced.  In  addition,  if  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  primary  term,  there  is  a  total 
cessation  of  all  production,  for  any  cause  (subject  to  the  force  majeure  provisions),  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences 
or  resumes  any  drilling  or  reworking  operations,  or  production,  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  such  cessation.  Drilling  operations  or 
mining  operations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  commenced  when  the  first  material  is  placed  on  the  leased  premises  or  when  the  first  work 
other  than  surveying  or  staking  the  location,  is  started  thereon  which  is  necessary  for  such  operations. 

Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  to  unitize  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion  or  portions 
thereof,  as  to  all  strata  or  any  stratum  or  strata,  with  any  other  lands  as  to  all  strata  or  any  stratum  or  strata,  for  the  production  primarily 
of  oil  or  primarily  of  gas  with  or  without  distillate.  However,  no  unit  for  the  production  primarily  of  oil  shall  embrace  more  than  160  acres 
or  for  the  production  primarily  of  gas  with  or  without  distillate  more  than  640  acres;  provided  that  if  any  governmental  regulation  shall 
prescribe  a  spacing  pattern  for  the  development  of  the  field  or  allocate  a  producing  allowable  based  on  acreage  per  well,  then  any  such 
unit  may  embrace  as  much  additional  acreage  as  may  be  so  prescribed  or  as  may  be  used  In  such  allocation  of  allowable.  In  the 
absence  of  govemmentally  prescribed  spacing,  Lessee  shall  file  written  unit  designations  in  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises 
are  located.  Operations  upon  and  production  from  the  unit  shall  be  treated  as  if  such  operations  were  upon  or  such  production  was 
from  the  leased  premises  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  are  located  thereon.  The  entire  acreage  within  a  unit  shall  be  treated  for  all 
purposes  as  If  it  were  covered  by  and  included  in  this  lease  except  that  the  royalty  on  production  the  unit  shall  be  as  below  provided, 
and  except  that  in  calculating  the  amount  of  any  shut  In  gas  royalties,  only  the  part  of  the  acreage  originally  leased  and  then  actually 
embraced  by  this  lease  shall  be  counted.  In  respect  to  production  from  the  unit,  Lessee  shall  pay  Lessor,  in  lieu  of  other  royalties 
thereon,  only  such  proportion  of  the  royalties  stipulated  herein  as  the  amount  of  this  acreage  placed  in  the  unit  or  his  royalty  interest 
therein  on  an  acreage  basis,  bears  to  the  total  acreage  in  the  unit. 

If  said  Lessor  owns  a  lesser  interest  in  the  above  described  land  than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein 
whether  stated  hereinabove  as  whole  or  partial  interest,  then  the  royalties  herein  provided  shall  be  paid  to  the  Lessor  only  in  the 
proportion  which  his  Interest  bears  to  the  whole  undivided  fee.  In  addition,  the  Lessee  shall  have  a  right  to  issue  a  replacement  draft 
for  any  draft  that  was  tendered  for  bonus,  royalty  or  other  payment,  which  payment  was  based  on  Lessor's  ownership  interest  in  the 
above  described  lands.  In  the  event  it  is  determined  by  Lessee  that  Lessor  owns  a  lesser  interest  in  such  land  than  the  amount  on 
which  such  royalty,  bonus  or  other  payment  was  based  and  in  the  event  a  draft  has  already  been  paid  prior  to  the  discovery  of  Lessor's 
lesser  interest,  then  Lessee  shall  have  a  right  to  be  reimbursed  for  such  overpayment  upon  making  written  request,  and  shall  also  have 
rights  of  setoff  against  other  or  future  royalty  or  other  payments  in  order  to  recover  such  overpayment,  it  being  understood  and  agreed 
by  the  parties  that  Lessor's  payments  of  bonus,  royalty  or  other  payments  that  are  based  on  Lessor's  net  mineral  acre  ownership  shall 
be  adjusted  to  reflect  Lessor's  true  net  mineral  acre  ownership. 

Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  use,  free  of  cost,  gas,  oil  and  water  produced  on  said  land  for  its  operations  thereon,  except  water 
from  wells  of  Lessor.  When  requested  by  the  Lessor,  lessee  shall  bury  his  pipelines  below  plow  depth.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer 
than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  premises,  without  the  written  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all 
damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  on  said  land. 

Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  premises,  including  the  riqht'to  draw 
and  remove  casing. 

Any  structures  and  facilities  placed  on  the  lease  premises  by  Lessee  for  operations  hereunder  and  any  well  or  wells  on  the 
leased  premises  drilled  or  used  for  the  injection  of  salt  water  or  other  fluids  may  also  be  used  for  Lessee's  operations  on  other  lands  in 
the  same  area. 


If  the  ©state  of  either  party  hereto  is  assigned,  and  the  privilege  of  assigning  in  whole  or  in  part  is  expressly  allowed,  the 
covenants  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  successors  or  assigns.  However,  no  change  or  division  in 
ownership  of  the  land  or  royalties  shall  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee.  No  change  in  ownership  of  the  land  or 
royalties  shall  be  binding  on  the  Lessee  until  after  the  Lessee  has  been  furnished  with  a  written  transfer  or  assignment  or  a  true  copy 
thereof.  In  case  Lessee  assigns  this  lease,  in  whole  or  in  part,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  with  respect  to  the  assigned 
portion  arising  subsequent  to  the  date  of  assignment. 

If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of 
the  shut-in  well  provisions  herein,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or 
regulation,  (whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except 
financial)  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof 
occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by 
operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

This  lease  shall  be  effective  as  to  each  Lessor  on  execution  hereof  as  to  his  or  her  interest  and  shall  be  binding  on  those 
signing,  notwithstanding  some  of  the  Lessor's  above  named  may  not  Join  in  the  execution  hereof.  The  word  "Lessor"  as  used  in  this 
lease  means  the  party  or  parties  who  execute  this  lease  as  Lessor,  whether  or  not  named  above. 

Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  surrender  this  lease  as  to  any  part  or  parts  of  the  leased  premises  by  delivering 
or  mailing  a  release  thereof  to  Lessor,  or  by  placing  a  release  of  record  in  the  proper  County. 

Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  the  lands  herein  described,  and  agrees  that  the  Lessee  shall  have  the 
right  at  any  time  to  redeem  for  Lessor  by  payment,  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens  on  the  above  described  lands,  in  the  event  of 
default  of  payment  by  Lessor,  and  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof. 

This  is  a  paid-up  lease.  In  consideration  of  the  cash  payment  acknowledged  above,  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  is  not  obligated 
to  commence  or  continue  any  operations  during  the  primary  term. 

In  addition  to  the  other  rights  granted  herein,  Lessor  hereby  grants  to  Lessee  a  continuing,  perpetual  pipeline  right-of  way, 
under  the  terms  and  conditions  hereinafter  set  forth.  Lessor  grants  to  Lessee  the  right,  privilege  and  easement  to  construct, 
reconstruct,  operate,  maintain,  inspect,  test  repair,  replace,  remove,  alter  and  abandon  an  initial  pipeline,  and  any  additional  pipeline, 
for  the  transportation  of  any  or  all  of  gas,  gas  constituents,  oil  or  oil  constituents,  together  with  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  over  the 
land  leased  hereunder  and  the  right  to  use  such  surface  or  subsurface  areas  as  may  be  reasonably  needed  for  the  exercise  of  the 
rights,  privileges  and  easements  herein  granted.  The  term  "pipeline"  as  used  in  this  paragraph  includes  such  surface  or  subsurface 
pipeline  appurtenances  and  facilities  (including,  without  limitation,  any  metering  equipment  and  dehydration  facilities  and  connections  to 
any  wells  located  on  said  land).  This  pipeline  right-of-way  is  not  limited  to  pipeline  for  the  use  of  production  from  the  lands  leased  under 
this  Lease,  and  such  pipeline  right-of-way  is  without  regard  to  whether  such  gas,  gas  constituents,  oil  or  oil  constituents  are  produced 
from  the  land  leased  hereunder  or  from  any  other  lands,  and  further  without  regard  to  whether  such  lands  are  pooled  or  unitized  with 
the  land  leased  hereunder  or  not.  If  the  Lessee  desires  to  exercise  the  rights,  privileges  or  easements  granted  by  this  paragraph  by 
commencing  construction  of  an  initial  pipeline,  then  upon  completion  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  a  sum  equal  to  One  Dollar  per  lineal 
foot  for  each  lineal  foot  of  pipeline  installed,  and  upon  completion  shall  pay  a  sum  equal  to  Fifty  Dollars  for  any  meter  installation, 
dehydration  station,  or  well  connection  installed,  and  the  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  rights,  privileges  and  easements  granted  In 
this  paragraph  with  respect  to  any  additional  pipeline  that  Lessee  desires  to  install  thereafter.  If  the  Lessee  fails  to  commence 
construction  of  any  initial  pipeline  during  the  term  of  this  lease,  (as  such  teim  may  be  extended  by  option,  agreement,  production,  gas 
storage,  or  in  any  other  manner),  then  after  receipt  of  written  request  from  the  Lessor,  the  Lessee  agrees  to  provide  to  Lessor  a  written 
document  canceling  this  pipeline  right  of  way.  If  any  initial  pipeline  construction  is  commenced  during  the  term  of  this  lease,  then  all  of 
the  rights,  privileges  and  easements  granted  in  this  paragraph  to  the  Lessee  shall  continue,  after  expiration  of  this  lease,  until  such  time 
as  the  Lessee  shall  release  such  rights,  privileges  and  easements  by  an  instrument  in  writing,  duly  recorded.  Notwithstanding  anything 
in  the  foregoing  to  the  contrary,  however,  if  pipeline  is  constructed  pursuant  to  Paragraph  one  (1)  of  this  lease,  for  the  purpose  of 
transporting  gas,  gas  constituents,  oil  or  oil  constituents  produced  from  the  lands  leased  under  this  lease,  or  from  lands  pooled  with  the 
lands  leased  under  this  lease  (collectively,  the  leasehold  production  pipeline"),  then  the  Lessee  shall  not  be  required  to  pay  any  sums 
to  Lessor  in  respect  of  such  leasehold  production  pipeline  and  Lessee's  rights  with  regard  to  such  leasehold  production  pipeline  shall 
be  as  set  forth  in  Paragraph  one  (1)  of  this  lease. 

This  lease  may,  at  Lessee's  option,  be  extended  as  to  all  or  part  of  the  lands  covered  hereby  for  an  additional  primary  term  of 
(_2_)  years  commencing  on  the  date  that  this  lease  would  have  expired  but  for  the  extension.  Lessee  may  exercise  its  option  by 
paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  an  extension  payment  of  $  4.000  per  net  acre  for  the  land  then  covered  by  the  extended  lease.  Said 
bonus  is  to  Lessor  at  Lessor's  address  above  or  last  known  address.  If  Lessee  exercises  this  option,  the  primary  term  of  this  lease 
shall  be  considered  to  be  continuous,  commencing  on  the  date  of  the  lease  and  continuing  from  that  date  to  the  end  of  the  extended 
primary  term.  Lessor  hereby  grants  any  such  extensions  of  this  lease  without  necessity  of  an  amendment  to  said  lease. 

As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  the  lease  premises,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites, 
and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the 
vicinity  may  be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations. 
Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  the  lease  premises  or  other  leases  In  the 
vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  the  lease  premises  or  off  of  lands  with  which  the 
lease  premises  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the 
purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  the  lease  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of 
this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  the  lease  premises.  Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any 
surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  or  extension  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to 
accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering 
alt  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to 
notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all 
other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  the  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior 
and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to 
the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  the  Lessee  has  failed  to  comply  with  any  obligation  hereunder,  express  or  implied,  Lessor 
shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing,  specifying  in  what  respect  Lessor  claims  Lessee  has  breached  this  lease.  The  service  of  such  notice  and 
elapse  of  sixty  (60)  days  without  Lessee  meeting  or  commencing  to  meet  the  alleged  breaches  shall  be  a  condition  precedent  to  any 
action  by  Lessor  for  any  cause.  If,  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  receipt  of  such  notice  Lessee  shall  meet  or  commence  to  meet  the 
breaches  alleged  by  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  in  default  hereunder. 

Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  should  a  shut-in  royalty  payment  not  be  properly  made  in  a 
timely  manner  as  provided  for  in  this  lease,  Lessor  may,  at  Lessor's  option,  elect  to  terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this  lease  by 
sending  written  notice  to  Lessee  by  certified  mail;  provided  that,  Lessee  shall  then  have  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such 
written  notice  in  which  to  avoid  termination  of  the  applicable  portion  this  lease  by  making  or  causing  to  be  made  the  proper  shut-in 
royalty  payment.  If  such  shut-In  royalty  payment  is  not  made  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  30  day  period,  Lessor  may  elect  to 
terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this  lease  by  filing  a  Notice  of  Termination  wfth  the  County  Clerk  in  the  county  where  the  lease 
premises  are  located.  The  effective  date  of  said  termination  shall  be  the  date  said  Notice  of  Termination  is  filed  with  the  said  County 
Clerk. 


IN  TESTIMONY  WHEREOF,  we  sign  this  the 

-------  • 

Printed:       Baice  Edward  Grizzle  


dav of  rrn^\\^AAJ^. 

Jean  Grizzl 


,2009 


Printed: 


Nora 


STATE  OF  . 
COUNTY  OF 


TEXAS 


TARRANT 


}ss. 

i 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


-.Before  me,  the  undersigned,  a  Notary  Public,  in  and  for  sajd  County  and  State,  on  this  2*?  day  of 

lV^i^Y\%&SA^  VAvffi^  mW8A™  TqYWZJJ    ny\^  TFavh 


to  me  known  to  be  the  identical  person  who  executed  the  within  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  _ 
executed  the  same  as  ^v\l^\  p        free  and  voluntary  act  and  deed,  for  the  uses  and  purposes  therein  set  forth. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  I  have  hereunto  set  my  official  signature^nd  affixed  my  cifficjal  seal  the  day  and  year  first  above 

written. 


My  commission  expires 


ature^nd  affixed  my  official  seal 


Notary  PuBlIc 


EXHIBIT  A 


Tract  1 

BEING  .5  acres,  TR2L01,  A  162,  Bratton,  Thomas  Survey,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Mansfield,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and 
amendments  thereof,  including  streets,  easements  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 

Tract  2 

BEING  a  portion  of  that  certain  lot,  tract  or  parcel  of  land  situated  in  the  THOMAS  BRATTON  SURVEY,  Abstract  No.  162, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  as  conveyed  to  Gene  W.  Robertson  and  spouse,  Ann  L.  Robertson  by  deed  recorded  in  Instrument  No. 
D204001411,  County  Clerk  records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  said  portion  being  more  particularly  described  by  metes  and 
bounds  as  follows. 

BEGINNING  at  a  found  %  inch  iron  rod  for  corner,  same  being  the  most  westerly  corner  of  a  called  0.499  acre  tract  of  a  land 
conveyed  to  Bruce  Edward  Grizzle  and  wife,  Nora  Jane  Grizzle  by  deed  recorded  in  Volume  6233,  Page  444,  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas; 

THENCE  South  20  degrees  58  minutes  48  seconds  East,  along  the  most  westerly  line  of  said  Grizzle  tract,  a  distance  of  136.34 
feet  (136.45  feet  by  deed)  to  a  found  %  Inch  Iron  rod  for  comer; 

THENCE  South  60  degrees  24  minutes  52  seconds  West,  along  a  fence  line,  a  distance  of  15.00  feet  to  a  set  5/8  inch  iron  rod 
with  cap  marked  5122  for  comer; 

THENCE  North  24  degrees  20  minutes  02  seconds  West,  a  distance  of  135.50  feet  to  a  set  5/8  inch  iron  rod  with  cap  marked 
5122  for  comer; 

THENCE  North  60  degrees  44  minutes  04  seconds  East,  a  distance  of  23.00  feet  to  the  POINT  OF  BEGINNING  and  containint 
0.059  acres  (2563.51  square  feet)  of  land. 


