Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Feb  27  02:37  PM  AA 

Fee  $  32  00  D209053822 

Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  5  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


HARDING  COMPANY 

13465  Midway  Road,  Suite  400 

Dallas,  Texas  75244 


Submitter:  HARDING  COMPANY 


SUZANNE  HENDjRSgif 
TARRANT  Cdi^fVCL|Ri< 
TARRANT  CbU^^^URf  H^fUSE 

100  WEST  VS^lH|^|p  ' 
FORT  WORffi,  T?'7B1i&#bl 


do  NonOEsm&Y 


WARNING  -  THISfS 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPUF1LE 


\3 


By: 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH 

OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  FM*iDt>ERTY BP^MRp  ^eo^fe^ 


OF  THE  DESUKieew  wml  r^yj^JJ?  li^^P'lS^l^fc' 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UtfESF$S&E^Li=  -UlfogR  FEDEi^$fr 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS.  .F  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING 
INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  OF  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER 
OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
ij.     (No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  day  of  WflVCJlfeCfc  2008,  by  and  between  Makrta  Young  and  husband,  Marcus  Nelson 

Young 


whose  address  is  8430  Cotton  Valtev  Lane.  Arlington.  Texas  76002.  as  Lessor,  and  HARDING  ENERGY  PARTNERS.  LLC,  a  Tatas  limited  liability 
company,  13465  Midway  Road,  Suite  400,  Dallas,  Texas  75244,  as  Lessee.  All  printed  portions  of  this  Lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove 
named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  {including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to 
Lessee  the  following  described  land,  hereinafter  called  Leased  Premises: 

See  attached  Exhibit  "A"  for  Land  Description 

in  the  County  of  Tarrant.  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.141  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter 
acquire  by  reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all 
hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used 
herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  Leased 
Premises,  this  Lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent 
to  the  above-described  Leased  Premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any 
additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount 
of  any  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  tess. 

2.  This  Lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  Lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Three  (31  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and 
for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  from  lands  pooled 
therewith  or  this  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other 
liquid  hydrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  25.00%  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to 
Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to 
purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then 
in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all 
other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  25.00%  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad 
valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such 
gas  or  other  substances,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid 
for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is 
such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee 
commences  its  purchases  hereunder  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or  such  wells  are  waiting  on 
hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  Lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well 
or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this 
Lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and 
thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by 
Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  Lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the 
Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following  cessation  of  such  operations 
or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this 
Lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  Lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  Lessor's  address  above  or  its 
successors,  which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or 
tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mail  in  a 
stamped  envelope  addressed  to  ihe  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment  If  the  depository 
should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder,  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request, 
deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry 
hole")  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause, 
including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  Lease 
is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for 
drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after 
completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  at  any  tine 
thereafter,  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably 
calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with 
no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days,  and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as 
long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably 
prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  Leased  Premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in 
paying  quantities  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  Leased  Premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or 
wells  located  on  other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly 
provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or 
interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  Lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of 
production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  Leased  Premises,  whether  or  not 
similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal 
completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640 
acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to 
conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the 
purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  weir  and  "gas  weir  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental 
authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing 
conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the 
horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well 
in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling 
rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  Leased  Premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or 
reworking  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  ofthetotal^Jhit 

HEP  NSU3-2YR  0923QS  Page  1  of  4  lnitial(fi). 


production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such 
proportion  of  unit  production  Is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall 
have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  tD  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  Or  denslty'pattem  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shalf  file  of 
record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  Leased  Premises  is 
included  In  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter 
be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  fn  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the 
unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross- 
conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of-the  Leased  Premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder 
for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the 
Leased  Premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of  the  Leased  Premises. 

6.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by 
depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators, 
successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder, 
and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated 
copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements 
contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or 
tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are 
entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or 
separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  Its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the 
transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  fulF  or  undivided  interest  in  all 
or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the 
transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided 
interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  reHeved  of  all  obligations 
thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby. 
Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

1 0.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled 
or  unitized  herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such 
operations  on  the  Leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling 
of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines, 
power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such 
operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  Leased  Premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In 
exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to 
the  entire'  Leased  Premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  Lease;  and  (b)  to  any 
other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When 
requested  by  Lessor  in  writing,  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  2QQ  feet 
from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for 
damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and 
growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  Leased 
Premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  Lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

1 1 .  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances 
covered  hereby  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by 
inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather 
conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shaN  not  terminate 
because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not 
be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  Dr  Implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or 
interrupted. 

12  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  writing  to  accept  from  any  party 
offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  Lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described 
herein  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately, 
including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a 
period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  interest 
therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

1 3  No  litigation  shail  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor 
has  qiven  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  defauFt,  wrthin  such  period. 
In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  Lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or 
canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails 
to  do  so. 

14  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns  a  perpetual 
subsurface  well  bore  easement  under  and  through  the  Leased  Premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oi  or 
gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  Leased  Premises  or  lands  pooled 
therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive 
any  termination  of  this  Lease. 

15  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and 
discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  Leased  Premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  optior .  Lessee  shaU 
be  subrogated  to  the  righte  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  nghts,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n 
ro^Sfherwfse  payabte  to  Lesso^sreunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  Wle,  Lessee  may  suspend 
hTpa^ent T  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  ^^^^J^^r^H  ^ 
been  resolved  Lessor  shall,  upon  the  request  of  Lessee,  use  its  best  efforts  in  assisting  Lessee  in  obta.nmg  a  subordmauon  of  Mortage  Deed  of 
Trust  ToE'r  similar  secu  ity instrument  that  may  affect  the  Leased  Premises.  Additionally,  in  the  event  Lessor  re^jves  a  not.ce  of  defautt 
acceleration  of  loan,  or  notice  of  sate  under  a  Mortgage,  Deed  of  Trust,  or  other  similar  security  instrument  affecting  the  Leased  Premn» ^  ^or  f  aH 
Tmmediately  provide  copies  of  any  such  notice,  and  all  additional  relevant  facts,  to  Lessee.  In  ths  regard.  Lessor  shall  comply  with  all  reasonable 
requests  of  Lessee- 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  Leased  Premises 
for  drilling  or  other  operations. 

17  Lessor  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease  for  an  additional  period  of 
Two  lavea^  from  the  end  of  the  primary  tern?  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  pnmary  term  the  same  bonus  considerate, 
terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  Lease. 

18.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  counterparts,  each  of  which  is  deemed  an  original  and  all  of  which  only  constitute  one  original. 


HEP  NSU3-2YR  092308 


Page  2  of  4 


Initial(s) 


DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  — ssor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  Lease  payments,  In  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are 
market  sensitive  and  may  vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  Is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor 
understands  that  these  Lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and  that  Lessor  entered  into  this  Lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence. 
Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  no  representations  or 
assurances  were  made  In  the  negotiation  of  this  Lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on  future  market 
conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  Lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or 
may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the 
signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  Lease  has  been  executed  by  all 
parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 


STATE  OF  Tl 
COUNTY  OF 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared  MfHCTJi^  fJVUSQJV  l«*M/U  .  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is 
subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instalment,  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed, 
and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the 


SEAL: 


,  mm  THOMASON 
^ry>ybllc,Ste»  of  Texas 
My  eommisslon  Expires 
July  II,  2010 


ItoyfiK  ptt*>w  Y<xw(r 

'  '  e/she  executed  the  same  f 

h&State  of  TexaSf*' 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  th&State  of  Tj 
Signature  of  Notary: 
Printed  Name:  


My  Commission  Expires:  Jir 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  _ 


Individual  Acknowledgment 


BEFORE  ME,  on  this  day  personally  appeared 
subscribed  to  the  foregoing  instrument,  and  acknowledged 
and  in  the  capacity  therein  stated. 


SEAL: 


GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the 


mm  THOMASON 
NofflfvfubHe,  Stats  of  "face* 
My  semfliiMton  Expires 

July  11, 2010 


Ham*  Hwitr 

to  me  that  he/she  executed  the  sam 

4—    davof  hl&OlMfiXfcl 


  known  to  me  to  be  the  person  whose  name  is 

same  for  purposes  and  considerations  therein  expressed, 


Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  oj 
Signature 
Printed  Name: 


blic  in  and  for  the  State  ofjMtas. 
of  Notary:     Q/U<  l\WHMr*)*S 
>me:   frfftyfr  j^P^W 

My  Commission  Expires: . 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  _ 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me,  on  this 

of  .   


Corporate  Acknowledgment 

 day  of  


, 2008,  by 


(Name  of  Officer) 
corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 


(Title  of  Officer)  (Name  of  Corporation)  (State) 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  and  year  last  above  written. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 


Signature  of  Notary: . 
Printed  Name:  


SEAL: 


My  Commission  Expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  §  Corporate  Acknowledgment 

COUNTY  OF    § 

The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me,  on  this  day  of  „  ,  2008,  by_  

^  u    (Name  of  Officer} 

of   .  a  corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation, 

(Tide  of  Officer)  (Name  of  Corporation)  (State) 

GIVEN  UNDER  MY  HAND  AND  SEAL  OF  OFFICE,  this  the  day  and  year  last  above  written. 

Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  of  Texas. 


Signature  of  Notary:  

Printed  Name:  

SEAL:  My  Commission  Expires: 


HEP  NSU3-2YR  092308  Page  3  of  4  Initial® 


4t 


Exhibit  "A" 
Laud  Description 


4—  dav  of  pooeMtefe. 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  dated  \'  day  of  [UOvt-^PC-IQ  2008,  by  and  between,  HARDING 
ENERGY  PARTNERS.  LLC,  a  Texas  limited  liability  company,  as  Lessee  and  Makita  Young  and  husband.  Marcus  Nelson  Young  as  Lessor. 


Lessor  authorizes  Lessee  to  insert  the  Acreage,  Survey,  Abstract,  City  and  Plat  information  below,  if  it  is  not  already  included.  From  time  to  time  Lessee 
may  determine  that  some  part  or  all  of  the  Leased  Premises  should  be  more  specifically  described,  In  which  case  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any 
substitute  Lease(s)  or  correction  to  Lease(s)  tendered  by  Lessee  for  such  re-description. 


0.141  acre(s)  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  John  N.  Holland  Survey,  Abstract  No.  676,  and  being  Lot  29, 
Block  1,  Ham's  Ridge,  Phase  I,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  according  to  the  Plat 
thereof  recorded  in  Volume/Cabinet  A,  Page/Slide  9853  of  the  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and 
being  further  described  in  that  certain  Special  Corporation  Warranty  Deed  (Vendors  Lien)  recorded  on 
12/15/2005  as  Instrument  No.  D205373001  of  the  Official  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


After  Recording  Return  to: 

HARDING  COMPANY 

1 3465  MIDWAY  ROAD,  STE.  400 

DALLAS,  TEXAS  75244 

PHONE  (214)361-4292 

FAX  (214)  750-7351 


HEP  NSU3-2YR  092308 


Page  4  of  4 


