NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE 
OR  STRIKE  ANY  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  THIS  INSTRUMENT  BEFORE  IT  IS 
FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88-1 98{R) 
Texas  Paid-Up  (2/93) 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 
(PAID-UP  LEASE) 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  Ihis       22nd   day  of      January   ,20      09  .between 

Danny  G.  Harris  and  wife  Laura  A.  Harris  

  ,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more)  whose  address  is      920  ThoiTiaS  Crossing 


Drive,  Burleson,  Texas  76028 


and    Devon  Energy  Production  Company,  L.P.        .Lessee,  whose  address  is 


P.O.  Box  450,  Decatur,  Texas  76234   ;witnesseth: 

1 .  Lessor  in  consideration  of  Ten  or  more  Dollars,  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided,  and  of  the  agreement  of  Lessee  herein  contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets 
exclusively  unto  Lessee  Ihe  lands  subject  hereto  for  the  purpose  of  investigating,  exploring,  prospecting,  drilling  and  mining  for  and  producing  oil,  gas  (including  all  gases,  liquid  hydrocarbons 
and  their  respective  constituent  elements)  and  all  other  minerals,  (whether  or  not  similar  to  those  mentioned)  and  the  exclusive  right  to  conduct  exploration,  geologic  and  geophysical  tests  and 
surveys,  injecting  gas,  water  and  olher  fluids  and  air  into  subsurface  strata,  establishing  and  utilizing  facilities  for  the  disposition  of  salt  water,  laying  pipelines,  housing  its  employees  and 
building  roads,  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines  and  other  structures  thereon  to  produce,  save,  take  care  of.  treat,  transport,  and  own  said  products;  which  lands  are  located  in 

TaiTant   Counly,  Texas,  and  described  as  follows: 

0.  520  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  Abner  Lee  Survey,  A-931,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  all  of  Lot 

1.  Block  13,  Thomas  Crossing,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  according  to  the  plat 
thereof  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  4473  and  4474,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS  SEE  EXHIBIT  "A"  ATTACHED  HERETO  AND  A  PART  HEREOF. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  all  land  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent  or  contiguous  to  the  land  particularly  described  above,  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  in  adjacent 
surveys,  although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above.  The  land  covered  by  this  lease  shall  be  hereinafter  referred  to  as  said  Land.  Lessor  agrees  to 
execute  any  lease  amendment  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  Land  and  such  amendment  shall  include  words  of  present  lease  and  grant.  For  the 

purpose  of  calculating  any  payments  hereinafter  provided  for,  said  Land  is  estimated  to  comprise      0.520  acres,  wheiheT  it  actually  comprises  more  or  less  until  such  time  as 

Lessee  requests  a  lease  amendment  and  same  is  filed  of  record. 

2.  Subject  to  tlie  other  provisions  herein  contained  and  without  reference  to  the  commencement,  prosecution  or  cessation  of  operations  and/or  production  at  any  time  hereunder,  this 
lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  dale  (called  "primary  term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  is  produced  from  or  operations  are  conducted  on  said  Land 
or  land  with  which  said  Land  is  pooled  hereunder.  The  word  "operations"  as  used  herein  shall  include  but  not  be  limited  to  any  or  the  following,  preparing  drillsite  location  and/or  access  road, 
drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  and  any 
other  actions  conducted  on  said  lands  associated  with  or  related  thereto. 

3.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  are:  (a)  on  oil  delivered  at  the  wells  or  inlo  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells  may  be  connected,  one-eighlh  of  the  proceeds  received  from  the  sale  of 
oil  produced  and  saved  from  said  Land;  Lessee  may  from  time  to  time  purchase  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession,  paying  the  market  price  therefor  prevailing  for  the  field  where  produced  on  the 
date  of  purchase  or  Lessee  may  sell  any  royalty  oil  in  its  possession  and  pay  Lessor  the  price  received  by  the  Lessee  for  such  oil  computed  at  the  well,  Lessor's  interest  shall  bear  one -eighth  of 
Ihe  cost  of  treating  the  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipeline  oil  or,  if  there  is  no  available  pipeline,  Lessor's  interest  shall  bear  one-eighth  of  the  cost  of  all  trucking  charges,  (b)  on  gas,  including 
all  gases,  processed  liquid  hydrocarbons  associated  therewith  and  any  other  respective  constituent  elements,  casinghead  gas  or  other  gaseous  substance,  produced  from  said  Land  and  sold  or 
used  off  the  premises  or  for  the  extraction  of  gasoline  or  other  product  therefrom,  the  market  value  at  the  well  of  one-eighth  of  the  gas  so  sold  or  used  provided  the  market  value  shall  not 
exceed  the  amount  received  by  Lessee  for  such  gas  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  and  provided  further  on  gas  sold  at  the  wells  the  royalty  shall  be  one-eighth  of  the  net  proceeds  received 
from  such  sale,  it  being  understood  that  Lessor's  interest  shall  bear  one-eighth  of  the  cost  of  all  compression,  treating,  dehydrating  and  transporting  costs  incurred  in  marketing  the  gas  so  sold 
at  the  wells;  (c)  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine,  at  Lessee's  election.  Any  royalty  interests,  including,  without  limitation,  non- 
participating  royalty  interests,  in  said  Land,  whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessoi  and  whether  or  not  effectively  pooled  by  Lessee  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof,  shall  be  paid  from  the  royalty 
set  forth  herein.  Lessee  shall  have  free  use  of  oil,  gas  and  water  from  said  Land,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells,  in  all  operations  which  Lessee  may  conduct  hereunder,  including  water 
injection  and  secondary  recovery  operations,  and  the  royalty  on  oil  and  gas  shall  be  computed  after  deducting  any  so  used. 

4.  [fat  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  primary  term  herein,  there  is  a  well  or  wells  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  on  said  Land 
or  land  or  leases  pooled  therewith  but  oil  or  gas  is  not  being  sold  or  used  and  this  lease  is  not  then  being  maintained  by  production,  operations  or  otherwise,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate, 
(unless  released  by  the  Lessee),  and  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  that  oil  and/or  gas  is  being  produced  from  said  Land  within  Ihe  meaning  of  paragraph  2  herein.  However,  in  this  event, 

Lessee  shall  payor  tender  as  shut-in  royalty  to  Lessor,  or  tender  for  deposit  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  in  the    Bank  at 

  *    (which  bank  and  its  successors  are  Lessors  agent  and  shall  continue  as  the  depository  bank  for  all  shut-in  royalty  payments 

hereunder  regardless  of  changes  in  ownership  of  said  land  or  shut-in  royalty  payments)  a  sum  determined  by  multiplying  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  acre  for  each  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease, 
provided  however,  in  the  event  said  well  is  located  on  a  unit  comprised  of  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land  and  other  land  or  leases  a  sum  determined  by  multiplying  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  acre  for 
each  acre  of  said  Land  included  in  such  unit  on  which  said  shut-in  well  is  located.  If  such  bank  (or  any  successor  bank)  should  fail,  liquidate,  or  be  succeeded  by  another  bank  or  for  any  reason 
fail  or  refuse  to  accept  such  payment,  Lessee  shall  re-tender  such  payment  within  thirty  (30)  days  following  receipt  from  Lessor  of  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  bank  as  agent 
to  receive  such  payment  or  tenders.  Such  shut-in  royalty  payment  shall  be  due  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  ninety  (90)  days  after  (a)  ihe  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  or  (b)  the  date  of 
completion  of  such  well,  or  (c)  Ihe  date  on  which  oil  or  gas  ceases  to  be  sold  or  used,  or(d)  the  date  this  lease  is  included  in  a  unit  on  which  a  well  has  been  previously  completed  and  shut-in  or 
(c)  the  date  the  lease  ceases  to  be  otherwise  maintained,  whichever  be  the  later  date.  It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  no  shut-in  royalty  payments  shall  be  due  during  the  primary,  term.  In  like 
manner  and  upon  like  payments  or  tenders  on  or  before  the  next  ensuing  anniversary  of  the  due  date  for  said  payment,  the  Lessee  shall  continue  to  pay  such  shut-in  royalty  for  successive 
periods  of  one  (I)  year  each  until  such  time  as  this  lease  is  maintained  by  production  or  operations.  However,  if  actual  production  commences  within  the  applicable  90  day  period,  a  shut-in 
royalty  payment  shall  not  be  required  or,  if  a  shut-in  royalty  payment  is  tendered,  no  additional  shut-in  payment  will  be  due  until  the  next  ensuing  anniversary  of  the  due  date  for  said  tendered 
payment  regardless  of  how  many  times  actual  production  may  be  commenced  and  shut-in  during  such  one  (1 )  year  period.  Lessee's  failme  to  pay  or  lender  or  to  properly  ot  timely  pay  or 
tender  any  such  sum  as  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due  but  it  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease.  Lessee  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize 
or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities,  other  than  well  facilities  and 
ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flowline,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If  at  any  time  Lessee  pays  or 
tenders  royalty  or  shut-in  royalty  as  hereinabove  provided,  two  (2)  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein 
provided,  pay  or  lender  such  royalty  or  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof, 
as  Lessee  may  elect. 

5.  (a)  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  and  power  in  its  discretion  to  pool  or  combine,  as  to  any  one  or  more  strata  or  formations,  said  Land  or  any  portion  of  said  Land  with  other  land 
covered  by  this  lease  or  with  olher  land,  lease  or  leases  in  the  vicinity  thereof.  The  above  right  and  power  to  pool  and  unitize  may  be  exercised  with  respect  to  oil,  gas  or  oilier  minerals,  or  any 
one  or  more  of  said  substances,  and  may  be  exercised  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  during  or  after  the  primary  term,  and  before  or  after  a  well  has  been  drilled,  or  while  a  well  is  being 
drilled.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  pool  said  Land  or  portions  Ihereof  into  other  units.  Units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need 
not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  units  as  to  any  other  stratum  or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  Units  pooled  for  oil  hereunder  shall  nol  substantially  exceed  SO 
acres  each  in  area  plus  a  tolerance  of  10%  thereof,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall  not  substantially  exceed  in  area  640  acres  each,  plus  a  tolerance  of  10%  thereof,  provided  that  should 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  Ihose  specified,  units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed 
or  permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  The  pooling  for  gas  hereunder  by  Lessee  shall  also  pool  and  unitize  all  associated  liquid  hydrocarbons  and  any  other  respective  constituent  elements 
as  may  be  produced  with  the  unitized  gas,  and  the  royalty  interest  payable  to  Lessor  thereon  shall  he  computed  the  same  as  on  gas.  With  respect  to  any  such  unit  so  formed.  Lessee  shall 
execute  in  writing  an  instrument  or  instruments  identifying  and  describing  the  pooled  acreage  and  file  same  for  recording  in  the  office  of  Ihe  County  Clerk  in  the  county  in  which  said  pooled 
acreage  is  located.  Such  pooled  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the  dale  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments,  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then 
such  unit  shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  ot  instniments  are  so  filed  for  record.  Any  unit  so  formed  may  be  re-formed,  increased  or  decreased,  at  the  election  of  Lessee,  al 
any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the  original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument  of  record  in  the  County  in  which  said  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Any  such  pooled  unit 
established  in  accordance  with  the  terms  hereof  shall  constitute  a  valid  and  effective  pooling  of  the  interests  of  Lessor  and  Lessee  hereunder  regardless  of  the  existence  of  other  mineral,  non- 
executive mineral,  royalty,  non-participating  royalty,  overriding  royalty  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundary  of  any  pooled  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  therewith. 
Lessee  shall  be  under  no  duty  to  obtain  an  effective  pooling  of  such  other  outstanding  interests  in  lands  within  the  boundary  of  any  pooled  unit.  Operations  on  or  production  of  oil  and/or  gas 
from  any  part  of  the  pooled  unit  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land,  regardless  of  whether  such  operations  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or  after  the  date  of 
this  lease  or  the  date  of  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit,  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalties,  as  operations  on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  said 
Land  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  be  located  on  said  Land.  The  production  from  an  oil  well  will  be  considered  production  from  the  lease  or  oil  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and 
not  as  production  from  a  gas  pooled  unit;  and  production  from  a  gas  well  will  be  considered  as  production  from  the  lease  or  gas  pooled  unit  from  which  it  is  producing  and  nol  from  an  oil 
pooled  unit.  In  lieu  of  royalties  above  specified.  Lessor  shall  receive  on  production  from  a  unit  so  pooled  only  such  portion  of  the  royalty  stipulated  herein  as  the  amount  of  said  Land  placed  in 
the  unit  bears  to  the  total  acreage  so  pooled  in  the  unit  involved,  subject  to  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  reduce  proportionately  Lessor's  royalty  as  hereinafter  provided.  Oil  or  gas  produced  from  any 


such  unit  and  used  in  the  operations  thereof  or  thereon  shall  be  excluded  in  calculating  said  royalty.  Lessee  may  vacate  any  unit  formed  by  it  hereunder  by  instrument  in  writing  filed  for  record 
in  said  county  at  any  time  when  there  is  no  unitized  substance  being  produced  from  such  unit.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests 
as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  1o  pool 
or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  5  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  5,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty 
ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  said  Land. 

(b)  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  during  the  life  of  this  lease  shall  have  the  right  and  power  as  to  all  or  any  part  or  formation  or  strata  or  the  land  herein  leased,  without 
Lessor's  joinder,  to  unitize  the  same  with  other  lands,  formations,  strata  or  leases  covering  lands  in  the  same  genera!  area  as  the  leased  premises  by  combining  the  leasehold  estate  and  Lessor's 
royalty  estate  created  by  this  lease  with  any  other  lease  or  leases,  royalty  or  mineral  estate  in  and  under  any  other  tract  or  tracts  of  land,  regardless  of  the  ownership  thereof,  so  as  to  create  by 
the  combination  of  such  interests  or  any  of  them  one  or  more  unitized  areas  of  such  size  and  shape  as  determined  by  Lessee  to  be  developed  and  operated  by  secondary  or  tertiary  methods  as 
though  such  lands  and  interest  were  all  included  within  the  terms  hereof  and  constituted  a  single  oil,  gas  and  mineral  lease.  All  such  production  from  such  unitized  area  shall  be  divided  or 
allocated  among  the  various  tracts  comprising  such  unitized  area  based  on  a  formula  derived  from  parameters  utilized  by  Lessee  and  incorporated  in  a  unitization  agreement  approved  by  the 
Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  The  unitization  agreement  shall  include  other  provisions  designed  to  allow  for  operations  of  the  unitized  area  in  an  orderly  manner  and  Lessor  hereby  agrees 
that  all  provisions  contained  therein  shall  be  binding  on  Lessor  provided  such  unitization  agreement  is  approved  by  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  or  other  Governmental  Agencies  having 
jurisdiction  over  such  matters.  Operations  on  or  production  of  oil  and/or  gas  from  any  part  of  the  unitized  area  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land,  regardless  of  whether  such 
operations  were  commenced  or  such  production  was  secured  before  or  after  the  date  of  this  lease  or  the  date  of  the  instniment  designating  the  unitized  area,  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes, 
except  the  payment  of  royalties,  as  operations  on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  said  Land  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  be  located  on  said  Land.  Royalties  payable  from  the  unitized  area 
shall  be  computed  on  the  basis  of  the  production  allocated  to  the  portion  of  the  above  described  land  included  within  such  unitized  area  after  excluding  therefrom  any  oil  or  gas  used  in  the 
operations  thereon. 

6.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  or  times  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  above  named  or  place  of  record,  a  release  or  releases  covering  any  portion  of  said  Land  and/or 
portions  of  subsurface  strata  or  stratum  and  thereby  surrender  this  lease  as  to  such  portion  and/or  portion  of  subsurface  strata  or  stratum  and  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  as  to  the  acreage,  strata 
or  stratum  surrendered.  Lessee  shall  retain  rights  of  ingress  and  egress  across  and  through  any  released  portion  and/or  strata  of  the  lease  in  ordeT  to  have  necessary  access  to  that  portion  and/or 
strata  of  the  leased  premises  which  remains  in  force  and  on  which  Lessee  continues  to  conduct  operations. 

7.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  operations  or  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  on  said  Land  or  on  acreage  pooled  therewith  should  cease  from 
any  cause  and  tins  lease  is  not  then  being  otherwise  maintained,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  if  Lessee  commences  or  resumes  operations  within  ninety  (90)  days  thereafter  and  continues  such 
operations  or  commences  any  other  operations  with  no  cessation  of  operations  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  such  operation  or  other  operations  result  in  the  production  of 
oil,  gas  or  other  minerals,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  for  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said  Land  or  acreage  pooled  therewith.  It  is 
understood  and  agreed  that  if,  during  the  primary  term  hereof,  all  operations  or  production  ceases  on  said  Land  or  land  on  leases  pooled  therewith,  this  lease  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  full 
force  and  effect  during  the  paid-up  primary  term  hereof.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  is  nor  being  produced  on  said  Land  or  on  acreage  pooled  therewith 
and  there  are  no  operations  on  said  Land  or  on  acreage  pooled  therewith  but  operations  or  production  ceased  within  90  days  of  the  expiration  of  the  primary  tenn,  this  lease  sliall  not  terminate 
if  Lessee  commences  or  resumes  operations  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  said  cessation  of  production  or  operations.  If  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term.  Lessee  completes  either  (a)  an  oil 
well  on  land  other  than  said  Land  and  which  other  land  and  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land  has  been  included  in  a  gas  unit  that  was  formed  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  of  this  lease, 
or  (b)  a  gas  well  on  land  other  than  said  Land  and  which  other  land  and  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land  has  been  included  in  an  oil  unit  that  was  formed  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term 
of  this  lease,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  operations  on  said  well  or  operations  on  any  additional  well  on  said  Land  or  acreage  pooled  therewith  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of 
more  that  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas  or  other  mineral  is  produced  from  said  Land  or  acreage 
pooled  therewith.  For  all  purposes  herein,  if  an  oil  well  on  an  oil  unit,  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  said  Land  is  reclassified  as  a  gas  well,  or  if  a  gas  well  on  a  gas  unit,  which  includes  all 
or  a  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  is  reclassified  as  an  oil  well,  the  effective  date  of  such  reclassification  shall  be  considered  as  the  date  of  cessation  of  production  from  said  well.  If  during  the 
term  of  this  lease,  a  well  or  wells  should  be  drilled  and  completed  as  a  producer  of  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  and  such  well  ot  wells  are  located  on  adjacent  land  and  within  330  feet  of  and 
draining  said  Land,  Lessee  agrees,  at  its  option  to  either  (a)  drill  such  offset  well  or  wells,  as  an  ordinary  prudent  operator  would  do  under  similar  circumstances,  or  (b)  release  the  affected 
acreage  or  stratum  in  accordance  with  Ihe  provisions  of  paragraph  6  herein;  and,  in  this  connection,  it  shall  be  considered  that  no  drainage  exists.  However,  there  shall  be  no  express  or  implied 
duty  of  Lessee,  with  respect  to  the  above  options,  unless  such  offset  well  or  wells  drilled  by  Lessee  would  be  sufficiently  productive  to  pay  Lessee  a  profit  over  and  above  drilling,  completing 
and  operation  expenses. 

8.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right,  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  lease,  to  remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  by  Lessee  on  said  Land,  including  the  right  to  draw  and 
remove  all  casing.  Upon  Lessor's  request  and  when  reasonably  necessary  for  utilization  of  the  surface  for  some  intended  use  by  the  Lessor,  Lessee  will  bury  all  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow 
depth.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  within  two  hundred  (200)  feet  of  any  residence  or  barn  now  on  said  Land  without  Lessor's  consent. 

9.  The  rights  of  either  party  hereunder  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the  provisions  hereof  shall  extend  to  their  heirs,  successors  and  assigns;  but  no  change  or  division  in  such 
ownership  of  said  Land  or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligation  or  diminish  the  right  of  Lessee,  and  no  change  or  division  in  such  ownership  shall  be  binding 
on  Lessee  until  thirty  (30)  days  after  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished,  by  registered  U.  S.  mail  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business,  with  a  certified  copy  of  recorded  instrument  or 
instruments  evidencing  same  or  evidence  satisfactory  to  Lessee.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner.  Lessee  may  nevertheless,  pay  or  tender  royalties, 
or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above.  In  the  event  of  assignment  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  breach  of  any  obligation  hereunder  shall 
rest  exclusively  upon  the  owner  of  this  lease  or  of  a  portion  thereof  who  commits  such  breach.  If  six  or  more  parties  become  entitled  to  royalty  hereunder.  Lessee  may  withhold  payment 
thereof  unless  and  until  furnished  with  a  recordable  instrument,  executed  by  all  such  parties,  designating  an  agent  to  receive  payment  for  all. 

10.  The  breach  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  arising  hereunder  shall  not  work  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease,  nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby,  nor 
be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in  whole  or  in  part.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  operations  are  not  at  any  time  being  conducted  in  compliance  with  this  lease,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing  of  the  facts  relied  upon  as  constituting  a  breach  hereof,  and  Lessee,  if  in  default,  shall  have  ninety  (90)  days  after  receipt  of  such  notice  in  which  to  commence  the  compliance 
with  the  obligations  imposed  by  virtue  of  this  instrument.  The  service  of  said  notice  sliall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action 
shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  ninety  (90)  days  after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee,  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  After  the  discovery  of  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  in  paying 
quantities  on  said  premises,  Lessee  shall  reasonably  develop  the  acreage  retained  hereunder;  but,  in  discharging  this  obligation,  it  shall  in  no  event  be  required  to  drill  more  than  one  well  per 
eighty  (80)  acres,  phis  an  acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  10%  of  80  acres,  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  oil  in  paying  quantities  and  one  well  per  640  acres,  plus  an 
acreage  tolerance  not  to  exceed  1 0%  of  640  acres,  of  the  area  retained  hereunder  and  capable  of  producing  gas  or  other  minerals  in  paying  quantities. 

1 1 .  Lessor  hereby  wan-ants  and  agrees  to  defend  the  title  to  said  Land  and  agrees  that  Lessee  may,  at  its  option,  discharge  any  tax,  mortgage  or  other  lien  upon  said  Land,  cither  in  whole 
or  in  part,  and,  in  the  event  Lessee  does  so,  it  shall  be  subrogated  to  such  lien  with  the  righl  to  enforce  same  and  apply  royalties  accruing  hereunder  toward  satisfying  same  When  required  by 
state,  federal  or  other  laws,  Lessee  may  withhold  taxes  with  respect  to  royalty  and  other  payments  hereunder  and  remit  the  amounts  withheld  to  the  applicable  taxing  authority  for  credit  to 
Lessor.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee's  rights  under  the  warranty  in  event  of  failure  of  title,  it  is  agreed  that  if  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  on,  in  or  under  said  Land 
less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  shut-in  royalties  and  royalties  to  be  paid  Lessor  shall  be  reduced  proportionately. 

12.  (a)  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  lease,  from  conducting  operations  thereon,  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  therefrom  by 
reason  of  scarcity  of  or  inability  to  obtain  or  to  use  equipment  or  material,  or  by  operation  offeree  majeure,  any  Federal  or  State  law,  or  any  order,  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority, 
then  while  so  prevented.  Lessee's  obligation  to  comply  with  such  covenant  shall  be  suspended  and  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  and  this  lease  shall  be 
extended  while  and  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  by  any  such  cause  from  conducting  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  said  Land;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented 
shall  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  anything  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

(b)  The  specification  of  causes  of  force  majeure  herein  enumerated  shall  not  exclude  other  causes  from  consideration  in  determining  whether  Lessee  has  used  reasonable  diligence 
wherever  required  in  fulfilling  any  obligations  or  conditions  of  this  lease,  express  or  implied,  and  any  delay  of  not  more  than  six  (6)  months  after  termination  of  force  majeure  shall  be  deemed 
justified. 

(c)  All  terms  and  conditions  of  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  Federal  and  State  Laws,  Executive  Orders,  Rules,  or  Regulations;  and  this  lease  shall 
not  be  terminated,  in  whole  or  in  part,  nor  Lessee  held  liable  in  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith,  if  compliance  is  prevented  hy,  or  if  such  failure  is  the  result  of,  any  such  Law,  Order, 
Rule  or  Regulation. 

13.  This  lease  states  the  entire  contract  between  the  parties,  and  no  representation  or  promise,  verbal  or  written,  on  behalf  of  cither  party  shall  be  binding  unless  contained  herein;  and 
this  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  executing  the  same  and  their  successors,  heirs,  and  assigns,  regardless  of  whether  or  not  executed  by  all  persons  above  named  as  "Lessor". 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  shis  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written 


Danny  G 


Harris  \ 


LESSOR 


Laura  A.  Harris 


LESSOR 


LESSOR 


LESSOR 


STATE  OF 
COUNTY  OF 


TEXAS 


TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 


by     Danny  G.  Harris  and  wife  Laura  A.  Harris 


4${&\  KIMWKIRKMAN 

(*f^Jj^\^\      NOTARY  PUBLIC 
\*  \  i^i  /„  /       State  of  Texas 

Corrm  Exp.  02-14-2011 


Notary  Signature: 
Printed  Name1  _ 
Notary  Public,  State  of  TEXAS 
My  Commission  Expires 


EXHIBIT  "A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  the  22nd  day  of 
January,  2009  by  and  between  Danny  G.  Harris  and  wife  Laura  A.  Harris,  as  Lessor  and  Devon 
Energy  Production  Company,  L.P.,  as  Lessee. 

1 .  Royalty:  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  lease  to  the  contrary,  wherever  the 
fraction  "one-eighth"  (1/Sth)  appears  in  the  printed  portion  of  this  lease  the  same  is  hereby 
amended  to  read  "twenty-five  percent"  (25%). 

2-  Term:  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the  Lease  to  the  contrary,  in  Paragraph  2, 
the  primary  term  is  hereby  amended  to  read  "Two  (2)  years"  and  the  words  "Three  (3)  years" 
shall  hereby  be  deleted. 

3.  Costs.  It  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee  that,  notwithstanding  any  language 
herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the  Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by 
state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing,  gathering,  storing,  separating, 
treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  or  marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other 
products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into  marketable  form;  however,  in  the 
event  Lessee  determines  in  good  faith  that  it  can  obtain  a  higher  price  at  a  market  located  outside 
of  the  local  market,  and  Lessee  incurs  transportation  costs  charged  by  an  unaffiliated  interstate  or 
intrastate  gas  pipeline  in  order  to  enhance  the  value  of  the  oil,  gas  or  other  products,  Lessor's  pro 
rata  share  of  such  costs  may  be  deducted  from  Lessor's  share  of  production  so  long  as  they  are 
based  on  Lessee's  actual  cost  of  such  enhancements.  However,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive 
a  price  that  is  less  than  the  price  received  by  Lessee. 

4.  Assignment.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised 
or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and 
obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors, 
administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  In  the  event  of  an  assignment  of  any  portion  of  Lessee's 
interest  hereunder,  with  the  exception  of  assignments  being  made  to  officers,  directors,  and/or 
subsidiaries  of  Lessee,  Lessee  shall  deliver  to  Lessor  a  copy  of  the  recorded  document  regarding 
the  interest  so  assigned.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be 
binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly 
authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction 
of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual 
form  of  division  order.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or 
decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  Tf  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are 
entitled  to  shut  in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such 
persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest 
which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be 
relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of 
the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect 
the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or 
undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or 
tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in 
proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each. 

5.  Waiver  of  Surface  Use;  Water;  Seismic  Operations.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the 
contrary  in  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  not  enter  upon  the  surface  of,  cross  over,  place  any  structure 
or  building  upon  or  conduct  any  operations  (except  for  geophysical/seismic  operations  as  stated 
below)  on  the  leased  premises.  Lessee  shall  only  develop  the  leased  premises  by  pooling,  as 
provided  herein,  or  by  directional  or  horizontal  drilling  commenced  from  a  surface  location  on 
other  lands.  Lessee  shall  make  all  reasonable  efforts  not  to  use  residential  or  neighborhood 
streets  or  thoroughfares  in  developing  the  leased  premises,  and  lands  pooled  therewith,  or 
otherwise. 

Lessee  shall  not  have  or  acquire  any  rights  in  and  to  the  water  from  the  leased  premises.  No 
surface  water  or  underground  fresh  water  from  the  leased  premises  will  be  used  for  any  reason, 


including  water  flood  or  pressure  maintenance  purposes.  Lessee  shall  comply  with  all  applicable 
rules  in  disposition  of  salt  water,  brine,  or  other  fluids  utilized  in  or  resulting  from  operations, 
and  shall  not  cause  or  permit  any  such  substances  to  damage  or  pollute  the  surface  of  the  leased 
premises  or  any  fresh  water  sands  lying  thereunder.  The  leased  premises  shall  not  be  used  for 
salt  water  disposal. 

As  provided  above,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  conduct  geophysical/seismic  operations,  but 
only  by  utilizing  the  vibroseis  method,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all  actual  damages  incurred  to 
the  leased  premises,  which  directly  result  from  geophysical  seismic  operations. 

Nothing  in  this  Lease  shall  be  interpreted  as  a  waiver  by  Lessor  of  any  setback  or  other 
requirements  under  the  drilling  or  other  applicable  ordinances  of  the  Cities  of  Burleson  and/or  Ft. 
Worth  or  the  counties  of  Johnson  and/or  Tarrant. 

6.  Noise.  Noise  levels  associated  with  Lessee's  operations  related  to  the  drilling, 
completion  and  reworking  of  wells  shall  be  kept  to  a  reasonable  minimum,  taking  into 
consideration  reasonable  available  equipment  and  technology  in  the  oil  and  gas  industry,  the 
level  and  nature  of  development  and  surface  use  elsewhere  in  the  vicinity  of  Lessee's  drill  sites 
and  the  fact  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted  in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  If 
Lessee  utilizes  any  non-electric-powered  equipment  in  its  operations,  including  but  not  limited  to 
compression  equipment,  Lessee  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  the  sound  therefrom  by 
installing  a  noise  suppression  muffler  or  like  equipment. 

7.  Regulatory  Requirements  and  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease, 
whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules  regulations  and  orders  of 
the  Cities  of  Burleson/Ft.  Worth  and  any  other  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction 
including  restrictions  on  the  drilling,  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other 
substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are 
prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain 
necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or 
by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or 
labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of 
purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably 
within  Lessee's  control,  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and 
at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  o  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof. 
Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  Lease  when 
drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted.  Lessee  shall 
take  all  reasonable  actions  to  remove  or  end  any  cause  of  Force  Majeure  for  a  period  of  more 
than  eighteen  (18)  months  or  three  (3)  years  of  cumulative  time.  No  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay 
money  that  has  accrued  and  was  due  before  the  Force  Majeure  event  occurred  under  this  Lease 
will  be  excused  or  delayed  by  reason  of  such  Force  Majeure. 

8.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS  LESSOR, 
AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND 
AGAINST  ANY  AND  ALL  LIABILITIES,  CLAIMS,  LOSSES  AND  DEMANDS  FOR 
DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  PERSONAL  INJURY  OR  DEATH,  AND  EXPENSES, 
INCLUDING  REASONABLE  ATTORNEY'S  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES  AND  COURT 
COSTS,  ARISING  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY  FROM  ACTIONS,  INACTIONS  OR 
OCCUPANCY  OF  THE  LEASE  PREMISES  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  OF 
AND  BY  LESSEE  OR  ITS  ASSIGNS  OR  THE  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES, 
CONTRACTORS  OR  INVITEES  OF  EITHER  OF  THEM. 

9.  Notices;  Right  to  Cure.  All  notices  required  or  contemplated  by  this  Lease  shall  be 
provided  in  writing  to  the  individual  Lessees.  All  such  notices  shall  be  made  by  registered  or 
certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  unless  another  means  of  delivery  is  expressly  stated.  No 
litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  of  default  by  Lessee  hereunder, 
for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the 
breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such 
period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach 
or  default  has  occurred,  this  Lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  part  unless 
Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  (not  to  exceed  90  days)  after  said  judicial  determination  to 
remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 


10.  Waiver  of  Claims  and  Neighborhood  Association  and  Committee  Members.  Lessor 
acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  this  Lease,  the  amount  of  the  royalty  and  bonus  paid 
hereunder,  and  all  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee  (herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms") 
with  respect  to  this  Lease,  were  obtained  as  a  result  of  negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the 
Community  consisting  of  a  committee  of  unpaid  volunteers  hereafter  known  as  Committee 
Members.  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  spent  by  Committee  Members  in  negotiating  and 
obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on  behalf  of  Lessor  and  other  property  owners,  Lessor,  on 
behalf  of  the  Lessor  and  the  Lessor's  agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors,  parents, 
subsidiaries,  affiliated  corporations  or  other  affiliated  entities,  successors,  partners, 
principals,  assigns,  attorneys,  servants,  employees,  heirs,  consultants,  and  other 
representatives,  does  hereby  release  and  forever  discharge  Committee  Members,  from  any 
and  all  claims,  demand,  obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action,  costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees, 
and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on  contract,  tort,  statutory  or  other 
legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recover,  whether  known  or  unknown,  past  present,  or  future, 
which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the  Committee  Members. 


SIGNED  FOR  IDENTIFICATION: 


Laura  A.  Harris 


After  recording  return  to: 

Devon  Energy  Production  Company,  UP. 

PO,  Box  450 

Decatur,  TX  76234 


DEVON  ENERGY  PRODUCTION  COMPANY 
PO  BOX  450 


DECATUR  TX  76234 

Submitter:  DEVON  ENERGY  PROD  CO 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


$32.00 


D209072340 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  DS 


