Electronically  Recorded 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Official  Public  Records 


2009  Mar  31  09:54  AM 


D209083719 


Fee:  $  28.00 


Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


4  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF 
THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  Februaiy  1 , 2009,  between  Robert  West  Saye  and  wife,  Laura  Louise  Saye,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose 
address  is:  1541  Western  Willows,  Haslet  TX  76052^  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St,  Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee, 
WITNESSETH: 

1.  Lessor  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  Tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to 
those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  fo  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface  disposal 
of  salt  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tanks,  power  stations,  telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures  on  said 
land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and  transporting  minerals  produced  from  the  land 
covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  lancTcovered  hereby,  herein  calletf  "said  land,"  is  located  in  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State  of 
Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

For  Additional  Lease  Provisions  and  description  of  lands,  see  Addendum  and  Exhibit  "A",  as  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof. 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b) 
as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instalment  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more 
complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  tine  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land  shall 
be  deemed  to  contain  0.22226247  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to 
be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  ana  options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of  three(3)years 
from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  said  land 
with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  As  royalty,  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the 
equal  twenty-five  percent  (25%)part  of  all  oD  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  tune  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay 
Lessor  the  average  posted  market  price  of  such  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or 
storage  tanks,  Lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil;  (b) 
To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  Lessee,  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of  the  amount  realized  by 
Lessee,  computecTat  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the  manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market 
value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  twenty-five  percent  (25%}of  such  gas  and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and 
marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined 
and  marketed  the  royalty  shaD  be  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is 
any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such 
wells  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for  solong  as  said  wefls 
are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable 
diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not 
be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be 
required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If,  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term, 
all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the 
expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period.  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  for  each 
acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said 
ninety  day  period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such 
payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under 
mis  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in  such  bank  as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the 
depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-in  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or  tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more 
parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  shut- 
in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  ownerships  thereof, 
as  Lessee  may  elect  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposfted  in  the  maD  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to 
receive  payment  or  to  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to 
release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  m  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest 
exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease, 
and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  unite  containing  not  more  than  80  surface  acres, 
plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided,  however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  unite  may  be  enlarged  as  to 
any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contain  not  more  than  640  surface  acres  plus  1 0%  acreage  tolerance,  if  limited  to  one  or  more  of  the  following:  (1 ) 
gas  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not  liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced  from 
wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  the  conservation  agency  having  junsdiction.  If  larger  units  than  any  of  those  herein  permitted,  either  at  the  time 
established,  or  after  enlargement,  are  permitted  or  required  under  any  governmental  rule  or  order,  for  the  drilling  or  operation  of  a  well  at  a  regular 
location,  or  for  obtaining  maximum  allowable  from  any  well  to  be  drilled,  drilling,  or  already  drilled,  any  such  una  may  be  established  or  enlarged  to 
conform  to  the  size  permitted  or  required  by  such  governmental  order  or  rule.  Lessee  shall  exercise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  unit  by  executing 
an  instrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded.  Such  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the 
date  provided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit  shall  become 
effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from 
time  to  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said  land,  or  on  the 
portion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes 
of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized. 
Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations 
conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate 
tract  within  tne  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit  after 
deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such  separate  tract)  covered  by  this 
lease  wifnin  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes, 
including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals 
from  the  rand  to  which  allocated  in  the  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary 
estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the 
unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this 
lease  shall  not  nave  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may 
become  payable  under  this  lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by 
this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands 
within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit  At  any  time 
while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a 
declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  there  is  no  unitized  minerals  being  produced  from  such  unit  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed, 
reduced  or  enlarged  by  Lessee  at  its  election  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the  original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  instrument 
of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established 
hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no 
pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion 
of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with 
consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty 
ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 


XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


n=rt  £  ifiifS3iay  f  a^  time  and  ^  to  IF5  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  sad  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest 

a^^^^«^^^e£^illea?e*'the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drilbite  location  or 
fSbS^,SteJ^I$  conptetirtft  reworking,  recompteting  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an 
nottfp^^SSiBw  93S'    P     °r       minera,s-  exravafing  a  mine,  producfon  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or 

^^^h^Lfti^76  ^^tfS0  ^S?  ^y&f'ff  °tner  ^  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
HSSiSHEft  }?Vi*Sil!$S  ?e  ngnt  ftanytme  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  sa0  land,  including  the  right  to  draw 
fiSn^T0^  ?s,ng'  No  we"  sJf[l  &:  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  barn  now  on  said  fend  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor  Lessee 
shan  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land.  i-www 

JS^IS  ^flSl  ^ JJiFlL^fH?  may  beua??i9n5dJiom  te-ti,Je  in  wnole  or  in  Part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
SHTO  a1d  «>"sideratons  of  this  lease  shall  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns,  and 
SESSTEfSS"^- No  chaS^  ^  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  oiner  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
Hi^iSSE®/*  dimm!&  me  S&P  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  nmited  to,  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement  of 
producAon^otwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns  no  chanae  or 
™c£!n«!he  own^'P  said 'and  or  of  the  royalties  or  other  moneys  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall  be  binding 
upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  tease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of 
business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly  certified 
copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court  records  and 
proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of  such  change  or 
dMsion.  If  any  such  change  m i  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender  such  royalties,  or 
other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  impBed  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of 
said  notice  wrthin  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the  alleged 
breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is  cancelecTfor 
any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations  to  constitute  a 
dnl  ling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage  to  be  designated 
by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any 
part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said"  land  as  are  necessary  to 
operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary  or  convenient  for 
current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  pnmarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the  rights 
of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor  and/or 
assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land  than  the  entire  and 
undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessors  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  men  the  royalties  and  other  moneys 
accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any, 
covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether  or  not  owned  by 
Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without  reqard  to  whether  it  is 
executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at  or  after  the  expiation  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days 
following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

12.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  other  than  existing  water  wells,  and  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  weD. 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  locations)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restncted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease,  except 
as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 
Robert  West  Saye,  by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson, 


Attorney  in  Fact 

uAiWi 


Laura  Louise  Saye,  by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson, 
Attorney  in  Fact 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

STATE  OF  } 

county ofjArcWlfirn  '  ^no        yri    A  ,  a 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  they?  3  day  of  //  f/fftCtf  20  Oj  by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson  as  Attorney 
in  Fact  of  Robert  West  Saye  and  Laura  Louise  Saye. 


Signature 

*  tf)/]  ~~>\  Notary  Public 

Printed      /C  A*7^  ( ^Ua)LA+J) 


My  commission  expires: 
Seal: 


ADDENDUM 


This  Addendum  is  attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  dated  the  February  1  2009 
by  and  between  Robert  West  Saye  and  wife,  Laura  Louise  Saye,  as  Lessor  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  as  Lessee.  ' 

^h^!5S^:,h^<fWithStanding  a3rth,2? t0  the  co,ntrary  contained  he«in,  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  exclusive  option,  to  be  exercised  prior 

?Jm  JIT  m  »£.  i  ♦   °u  any  POrtl°!! .ttw?t W0Uld  expire  in  accordance  witn  «s  tem*  and  provisions,  of  extending  this  lease  for  an  additional 

2£2J?iS i }  y  f  f  °r  ^  lS!5n  ,°f  thS  acrea9e  deSCr,bed  herein"  The  on,y  action  rec>uired  b*  '-essee  to  exercise  this  option  being 
payment  to  Lessor,  or  to  Lessor's  credit  with  the  depository  bank  named  herein,  of  an  additional  consideration  of  the  sum  of  $1,800.00  per  net  mineral 

!S  k  e^e^ed- which  payment  shall  cover  the  entire  two  (2)  year  extended  primary  term.  Should  this  option  be  exercised  as  herein  provided  it 

S3?     5Lnsidered  fyTJn  purposes  as  though  this  lease  originally  provided  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years.  If  this  lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a 

portion  of  the  acreage  then  covered  hereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by  a  recordable  instrument. 

16.  Surface  Restrictions:  It  is  agreed  by  and  between  the  parties  hereto,  that  no  surface  operations  will  be  conducted  upon  the  above-described 
leased  premises  without  the  pnor  written  consent  of  Lessor. 


Lessor(s): 

Robert  West  Saye,  ^  Laura  Louise  Saye,  ^r*~ 

by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson,  Attorney  in  Fact  by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson,  Attorney  in  Fact 


EXHIBIT  'A' 


ATTACHED  TO  AND  MADK  A  PART  OF  THAT  CERTAIN  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
DATED  FEBRUARY  1.  2009  FROM  RORERT  WEST  SAYE  AND  WTFE.  LAIJRA 
LOUISE  SAYE.  AS  LESSOR.  TO  XTO  ENERGY.  INC..  AS  LESSEE 

BEING  0.22226247  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  and  being  described  in  1  TRACIYS1  as 


Being  0.22226247  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  and  being  apart  of  North  Jarvis  Heights 
Addition  Blk.  14  Lot  12,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas 
and  being  more  particularly  described  in  a  Deed  dated  8/16/1 956  and  recorded  at  Volume 
3024,  Page  584  of  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

The  2008  Tarrant  County  Appraisal  District  Geo-Reference  Number  for  the  above 
described  property  is  30040-14-12. 


follows: 


Lessor: 


n  Saye  Peterson, 
Attorney  in  Fact 


X 


Laura  Louise  Saye,  by  LouAnn  Saye  Peterson, 

Attorney  in  Fact 


