Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Apr  03  12:28  PM 

Fee:  $  64.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  13  Pages 


Suza 


W&ffXND  MINERAL  LEASE 


D209089222 


This  Lease  Agreement  (the  "Lease")  is  entered  into  this  23rd  day  of  January, 
2009,  between  LUMINANT  MINERAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMPANY,  LLC,  as 
"Lessor,"  whether  one  or  more,  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  whose  address  is  1000 
Louisiana  St.,  #1500,  Houston,  Texas,  77002,  as  "Lessee." 

In  consideration  of  the  sum  of  Ten  Dollars  ($10.00)  and  other  valuable 
consideration,  the  receipt  of  which  is  acknowledged,  and  of  the  royalties  and  agreements 
of  Lessee  contained  in  this  Lease,  Lessor  grants,  leases,  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee,  its 
successors  and  assigns,  all  of  the  land  described  in  this  Lease,  together  with  any 
reversionary  rights  of  Lessor,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  by  geological,  geophysical, 
and  all  other  methods,  and  of  drilling,  producing  and  operating  wells  or  mines  for  the 
recovery  of  oil,  gas  and  other  hydrocarbons,  and  all  other  minerals  or  substances,  whether 
similar  or  dissimilar,  that  may  be  produced  from  any  well  or  mine  on  the  leased  premises, 
including  primary,  secondary,  tertiary,  cycling,  pressure  maintenance  methods  of 
recovery,  and  all  other  methods,  whether  now  known  or  unknown,  with  all  related 
incidental  rights.  The  land  that  is  covered  by  and  subject  to  this  Lease  is  situated  in 
Tarrant  County,  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows  and  referred  to  in  this  Lease  as  the 
"land"  or  the  "lands": 


SEE  EXHIBIT  A  FOR  LEGAL  DESCRIPTION 
SEE  EXHIBIT  B  FOR  ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS  TO  THIS  LEASE 

The  lands  shall  also  include  Lessor's  rights  and  interests  in  all  streets,  roads, 
alleys,  rights-of-way  and  easements  that  abut  or  are  adjacent  to  the  lands  (the  "Strips"). 
Prior  to  commencing  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  shall  determine  the 
amount  of  acreage  included  within  the  Strips.  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  an  additional 
bonus  payment  equal  to  Lessor's  net  mineral  acreage  in  the  Strips  times  $3,500. 

This  Lease  covers  all  of  the  land  described  above,  and  in  addition  it  covers  and 
there  is  expressly  leased,  let,  and  demised  to  the  same  extent  as  if  described  above,  all 
lands  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  adjacent,  contiguous  to  or  a  part  of  the  lands 
specifically  described  above,  whether  the  additional  lands  are  owned  or  claimed  by  deed, 
limitation  or  otherwise,  and  whether  they  are  inside  or  outside  the  stated  description, 
whether  they  are  held  under  fence  by  Lessor  or  not,  and  whether  the  additional  lands  are 
in  the  named  survey  or  other  survey  or  surveys  and  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  bonus  in  all  such 
additional  lands  that  are  determined  to  be  covered  by  this  Lease.  This  is  a  Lease  in  gross 
and  not  by  the  acre  and  the  bonus  money  paid  shall  be  effective  to  cover  all  such  lands 
irrespective  of  the  number  of  acres  they  actually  contained,  and  the  lands  included  within 
the  terms  of  this  Lease  are  estimated  to  comprise  4.965  acres,  whether  they  actually 
comprise  more  or  less. 

1.  Without  reference  to  the  commencement,  prosecution,  or  cessation  at  any  time  of 
drilling  or  other  development  operations,  or  to  the  discovery,  development,  or  cessation 
at  any  time  of  production  of  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals,  and  notwithstanding  anything  else 
contained  in  this  Lease  to  the  contrary,  this  Lease  shall  be  for  a  term  of  3  (three)  years 
from  the  date  stated  above  (the  "Primary  Term")  and  as  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or 
other  minerals  are  produced  from  the  lands,  or  land  with  which  the  lands  are  pooled,  or  as 
long  as  this  Lease  is  continued  in  effect  as  otherwise  provided  by  the  terms  of  this  Lease. 

2.  The  royalties  to  be  paid  by  Lessee  are:  (a)  on  oil,  and  on  other  liquid 
hydrocarbons  saved  at  the  well,  l/4th  of  that  produced  and  saved  from  the  land,  the  same 
to  be  delivered  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  in  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells 
may  be  connected,  Lessor's  interest  in  either  case  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  any 
expenses  for  treating  oil  to  make  it  marketable  as  crude;  (b)  on  gas,  including  casinghead 
gas  or  other  gaseous  substances  produced  from  the  land  and  sold  on  or  off  the  premises, 
l/4th  of  the  greater  of  (i)  the  net  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  of  such  gas 


wvvw.oilandgasforms.com 
TX-PU-Pooling 


computed  at  the  Point  of  Sale  (defined  below)  which  shall  never  be  less  than  the  net 
proceeds  received  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  of  Lessee's  gas;  or  (ii)  the  value  of  the  gas  as 
determined  by  the  quoted  index  price  per  MMBTU,  as  reported  in  the  first  issue  for  the 
month  of  production  of  the  Inside  RE.R.C.  Gas  Marketing  Report,  its  successors  and 
assigns,  or  equivalent  publication,  for  Natural  Gas  Pipeline  Co.  of  America,  Mid- 
continent  Zone,  with  an  appropriate  deduction,  as  reasonably  determined  by  Lessee,  for 
the  cost  of  transmission  of  the  gas  between  the  field  and  the  geographic  point  referenced 
by  the  index  price;  (c)  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed,  1/4,  either  in  kind  or 
value  at  the  well  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election;  and,  (d)  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time 
either  at  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease,  if  there  is  a  gas  well  or 
wells  on  the  land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  land  subject  to  this  Lease  (and  for  purposes  of 
this  clause  (e)  the  term  "gas  well"  shall  include  wells  capable  of  producing  natural  gas, 
condensate,  distillate,  or  any  gaseous  substance  and  wells  classified  as  gas  wells  by  any 
governmental  authority)  and  the  well  or  wells  are  or  have  been  shut-in  before  or  after 
production,  it  shall  be  deemed  that  the  well  or  wells  are  producing  gas  within  the 
meaning  of  paragraph  1  and  this  Lease  shall  not  terminate.  In  that  event,  Lessee 
covenants  and  agrees  to  pay,  as  royalty,  shut-in  gas  royalty  in  the  amount  of  Ten  Dollars 
($10,00)  per  net  acre  per  annum  as  long  as  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  and  this  Lease  is 
not  maintained  in  force  or  effect  by  any  other  of  its  provisions.  The  shut-in  royalty  shall 
be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor.  Any  payment  or  tender  of  shut-in  royalty  made  under  the 
terms  of  this  Lease  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to 
Lessor.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  obligated  to  pay  the  shut-in  royalty  indicated,  the  first 
payment  of  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  and  payable  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days 
following  the  date  on  which  the  well  is  shut-in,  or  if  shut-in  during  the  Primary  Term 
then  on  or  before  ninety  (90)  days  following  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  and 
subsequent  payments,  if  required  under  the  terms  of  this  paragraph  shall  be  due  and 
payable  annually  on  or  before  the  anniversary  of  the  date  of  the  original  payment. 

Lessor  shall  bear  the  severance  or  production  taxes  levied  against  its  royalty  share 
of  all  production  hereunder,  and  payment  of  royalties  shall  be  made  after  deduction  of 
such  taxes  paid  by  Lessee  thereon.  Subject  to  the  foregoing,  all  of  the  royalties 
hereinabove  stipulated  shall  be  computed  and  paid  or  delivered  without  any  deduction  or 
charge  on  account  of  any  cost  or  expense  of  (i)  operation,  exploration,  development, 
production,  saving,  storage,  cleaning,  extraction,  separation,  or  recovery,  or  (ii) 
compression,  dehydration,  treating,  transportation,  marketing,  delivery,  or  any  other 
deduction  or  charge  whatsoever  that  occurs  post  production,  whether  of  the  same  or 
different  character,  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  Point  of  Sale,  unless  agreed  to  in  writing 
by  Lessor  (such  costs  described  in  item  (ii)  being  called  "Post-Production  Costs"). 
Lessor's  royalty  share  will  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  third  party  Post-Production 
Costs  that  are  actually  incurred  prior  to  the  Point  of  Sale  (i.e.  costs  associated  with  bona- 
fide  arms  length  contracts  between  Lessee  and  unaffiliated  third  parties.  Lessor's  royalty 
share,  however,  shall  not  bear  Post-Production  Costs,  if  any,  that  are  incurred  after  the 
Point  of  Sale.  It  is  the  intent  of  the  parties  that  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  Paragraph 
2  are  to  be  fully  effective  and  enforceable  and  are  not  to  be  construed  as  "surplusage" 
under  the  principles  set  forth  in  Heritage  Resources  v.  NationsBank,  939  S.W.2d  118 
(Tex.  1997).  Lessor's  royalty  share  will  be  paid  on  any  consideration  paid  to  Lessee 
under  any  gas  sales  contract  including,  but  not  limited  to,  take-or-pay  payments  and 
payments  received  in  connection  with  any  gas  contract  termination  or  modification. 


Except  for  the  first  payment  of  royalty  on  gas  that  shall  be  due  within  one  hundred 
twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of  the  first  sales,  on  or  before  the  25th  day  of  the  second 
month  following  the  month  that  Lessee  receives  payment  from  the  first  purchaser  of  oil, 
gas  or  products  produced  from  the  lands,  Lessee  shall  mail  or  deliver  to  Lessor,  upon 
written  request,  an  itemized  statement  (using  all  available  information  it  should  have) 
showing  the  total  production  of  each  substance,  including  products  extracted  from  gas, 
during  such  preceding  month,  the  royalties  including,  without  limitation,  volumes,  prices, 
severance  taxes,  and  other  deductions  applicable  to  each  such  substance,  including  plant 
products,  as  well  as  a  full  and  complete  explanation  of  the  method  of  computation  of  such 
royalties  on  each  substance,  including  all  corrections,  additions  or  deductions;  and,  at  the 
same  time  without  the  necessity  of  written  notification  from  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  remit,  or 
cause  to  be  remitted,  to  Lessor  the  royalties  due  hereunder  on  production  sold  during 


w  w  w  .o  i  land  gas  forms  .com 
TX-PU-Pooling 


such  month  covered  by  such  statement.  Any  royalties  or  other  payments  provided  for  in 
this  Lease  that  are  suspended  without  cause  or  not  paid  to  Lessor  within  the  time  period 
specified  therefor  shall  accrue  interest  at  the  rate  hereinafter  provided  from  the  due  date 
until  paid,  provided  that  the  preceding  obligation  to  pay  interest  shall  not  apply  if  the 
payment  is  suspended  or  is  not  paid  by  the  first  purchaser  of  production  of  oil,  gas  or 
products  produced  from  the  lands,  or  is  suspended  or  not  paid  by  Lessee  because  of  a 
good  faith  dispute  of  the  amount  of  any  royalty  to  be  paid  to  Lessor.  Acceptance  by 
Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  shall  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to 
receive  or  recover  any  and  all  interest  due  thereon  under  the  provisions  hereof  unless  the 
written  acceptance  or  acknowledgement  by  Lessor  to  Lessee  expressly  so  provides.  Any 
tender  or  payment  to  Lessor  of  a  sum  less  than  the  total  amount  due  to  Lessor  hereunder 
which  is  made  or  intended  to  be  made  as  an  offer  of  settlement  or  accord  and  satisfaction 
by  or  on  behalf  of  Lessee  must  be  accompanied  by  a  Notice  of  Settlement  Offer,  so 
denominated,  addressed  to  Lessor.  Any  such  offer  of  settlement  submitted  solely  by  the 
tender  of  a  check  containing  language  of  settlement  or  accord  and  satisfaction  printed  or 
otherwise  inserted  thereon  shall  not  be  deemed  an  offer  of  settlement  or  accord  and 
satisfaction,  unless  preceded  by  a  Notice  of  Settlement  Offer.  Should  Lessee  fail  to  pay 
such  royalty  within  such  time,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  to  Lessor  interest  on  said  accrued 
royalties  at  the  prime  rate  of  interest  established  from  time  to  time  by  JPMorgan  Chase 
Bank,  N.A.  or  its  successor,  from  the  due  date  until  the  date  of  payment.  If  Lessee  fails 
to  pay  royalty  due  to  Lessor  for  three  (3)  or  more  consecutive  months  and  the  aggregate 
past  due  royalty  owed  to  Lessor  exceeds  a  cumulative  amount  over  the  three  months  of 
$50,000,  then  Lessor  shall,  at  its  option,  have  the  right  to  cancel  this  Lease  by  filing  an 
affidavit  of  record  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas;  however,  prior  to  filing  such  affidavit, 
Lessor  shall  give  written  notice  to  Lessee  conspicuously  marked  "NOTICE  OF  LEASE 
CANCELLATION"  via  certified  mail  of  such  intention,  and  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty 
(60)  days  in  which  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Should  Lessee  pay 
Lessor  all  royalty  payments  past  due  during  said  period  with  accrued  interest,  this  Lease 
shall  not  be  cancelled.  The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  paragraph  shall  be  in  addition  to, 
and  not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to  payment  of  royalty  under  V.T.C.A. 
Natural  Resources  Code  §§  91.401  through  91.405. 

The  "Point  of  Sale"  shall  be  a  point  generally  recognized  in  the  industry  as  a  point 
of  sale  or  point  of  delivery  to  multiple  purchasers  of  gas  after  the  gas  produced  from  the 
lands  enters  a  major  gas  transmission  line  and  title  to  such  gas  is  transferred  to  a  party 
that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  at  such  point  of  delivery.  A  major  gas  transmission  line  is 
a  line  owned  by  an  unaffiliated  third  party  that  transports  gas  for  multiple  producers. 

Lessor,  without  additional  cost  or  expense  to  Lessee,  save  and  except  associated 
Post-Production  Costs  that  are  incurred  prior  to  the  Point  of  Sale  (which  will  be  borne  by 
Lessee)  shall  have  a  continuing  right  and  option,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  be  exercised 
by  Lessor  as  set  forth  herein,  to  take  its  royalty  interest  share  of  production  in  kind  at  the 
Lessee's  initial  point  of  delivery  into  a  third  party  gathering  or  transportation  system; 
provided,  Lessor  must  give  Lessee  thirty  (30)  days  advance  written  notice  of  Lessor's 
intent  to  take  its  royalty  interest  share  of  production  in  kind,  and  Lessor's  election  shall 
be  for  monthly  periods  of  at  least  three  (3)  consecutive  months.  The  following  provisions 
shall  also  apply  with  respect  to  Lessor's  taking  its  royalty  interest  share  of  production  in 
kind: 

(i)  Lessor  shall  have  equal  access  to  the  delivery  points  for  third  party 
purchasers  and  shippers  of  Lessor's  gas  insofar  as  Lessor  has  control  of  the  access 
to  such  delivery  points  into  which  Lessor  may  then  produce; 

(ii)  Lessee  shall  deliver  all  of  Lessor's  royalty  interest  share  of  gas 
production  through  its  or  its  affiliate's  pipeline  or  gathering  system  free  of  all 
post-production  expenses  to  the  Point  of  Sale;  and 

(iii)  Any  imbalances  as  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  will  be  handled  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  a  mutually  agreeable  gas  balancing  agreement. 

Lessor  shall  have  the  right  to  audit,  exercisable  not  more  than  once  during  any  12- 
month  period,  the  accounts  and  records  of  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  relating  to 


www.oilandpasforms.CQm 
TX-PU-Pooling 


the  lands  and  to  its  operations  under  this  Lease.  Such  right  shall  be  exercised  by  Lessor 
by  giving  Lessee  not  less  than  ten  (10)  business  day's  prior  notice  and  such  audit  shall  be 
conducted  only  during  normal  business  hours  in  Lessee's  Houston,  Texas  home  office.  If 
the  audit  reveals  an  underpayment  of  more  than  $50,000,  Lessee  shall  be  responsible,  and 
promptly  reimburse  Lessor  in  respect  of  all  reasonable  expenditures  by  Lessor,  for  the 
full  costs  of  the  audit,  or  for  those  costs  up  to  the  amount  of  such  underpayment, 
whichever  is  lesser. 

If  gas  is  produced  from  the  lands,  and  if  more  than  one  party  owns  the  working 
interest  share  of  the  gas  produced,  and  if  any  or  all  of  such  co-owners  elect  to  take  and 
market  their  share  of  such  gas  separately,  resulting  in  "split-stream"  deliveries  of  such 
gas  to  different  purchasers,  then  the  following  shall  apply: 

(i)  Lessor  shall  be  entitled  to  Lessor's  royalty  share  (proportionately 
reduced,  as  herein  provided,  if  Lessor  owns  less  than  all  the  oil  and  gas  under  the 
lands)  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  the  entire  production  of  gas  produced  from 
the  lands,  regardless  of  how  such  gas  is  allocated  among  the  working  interest 
owners  or  to  whom  such  gas  is  sold,  and  regardless  of  any  agreements  to  the 
contrary  among  the  working  interest  owners. 

(ii)  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns  shall  be  liable  for  Lessor's  entire 
royalty  on  such  gas  production,  regardless  of  whether  Lessee  actually  is  allocated 
or  receives  any  proceeds  of  sale  of  any  such  production.  Lessee  shall  account  to 
Lessor  for  all  of  Lessor's  royalty  share  of  such  gas  production,  so  that  Lessor 
shall  not  be  required  to  receive  royalties  from  more  than  one  purchaser  or 
working  interest  owner,  and  Lessee  shall  provide  production  statements  from  all 
purchasers  of  such  gas  showing  the  volumes  sold  and  the  price  paid  therefor,  and 
any  applicable  adjustments. 

To  secure  Lessee's  payment  of  royalties  and  overriding  royalties  and  compliance 
with  the  other  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  hereby  retains,  and  Lessee 
hereby  grants  to  Lessor,  a  security  interest  in  each  well  of  twenty-five  percent  (25%) 
(reduced  proportionate  as  to  Lessor's  interest  in  such  well)  of  all  (as  extracted  collateral): 
(A)  oil  and  gas  produced,  saved  and  extracted  from  the  lands,  under  and  pursuant  to  this 
Lease,  and  (B)  all  accounts  arising  out  of  the  sale  of  such  oil  and  gas  and  all  proceeds 
thereof  (the  "Collateral").  The  security  interest  created  hereby  shall  continue  with 
respect  to  oil  and  gas  produced,  saved  and  extracted  from  the  lands  notwithstanding  the 
sale  or  other  disposition  thereof  until  Lessor,  as  secured  party,  receives  indefeasible 
payment  of  the  royalties  due  with  respect  thereto  under  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this 
Lease.  In  addition  to  any  other  remedies  provided  in  this  Lease,  Lessor,  as  a  secured 
party,  may  in  the  event  of  Lessee's  default  hereunder,  including  any  failure  to  pay  when 
due  royalties  in  the  amount  required  hereby,  (i)  proceed  under  the  Texas  Uniform 
Commercial  Code  (the  "Texas  UCC")  as  to  the  Collateral,  in  any  manner  permitted  by 
the  Texas  UCC  and  (ii)  shall  have  available  to  it  the  remedy  of  sequestration  available  to 
secured  parties,  and  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  the  remedies  of  replevin,  attachment 
and  garnishment  to  assist  Lessor  in  realizing  upon  its  rights.  This  lease,  or  a 
memorandum  thereof,  shall,  upon  its  recordation,  be  effective  as  a  financing  statement 
under  the  Texas  UCC,  and  shall  serve  as  an  authenticated  record  under  Texas  Business 
and  Commerce  Code  Section  9.203.  The  addresses  of  Lessor,  as  Secured  Party,  and 
Lessee,  as  Debtor,  and  information  concerning  Lessee's  organizational  type,  and  state  of 
organization  are  as  set  forth  in  this  Lease.  To  assure  continued  perfection  of  the  security 
interest  created  hereby,  (i)  Lessee  agrees  to  promptly  notify  Lessor  of  any  change  in  its 
name  or  jurisdiction  of  organization,  and  (ii)  Lessee  authorizes  Lessor  to  file  in  any 
appropriate  office  a  financing  statement  identifying  Lessee  as  debtor  and  covering  the 
Collateral  and  continuation  statements  with  respect  to  this  Lease  or  any  separate 
financing  statement. 

The  receipt  by  Lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of 
production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator, 
acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee,  or  Lessee's  operator,  will 
at  all  times  hold  the  proceeds  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor. 


www-oilandgasfortns.com 
TX-PU-Pooling 


It  is  specifically  provided  that  this  is  a  Paid-Up  Lease  during  the  Primary  Term 
and  there  shall  be  no  obligations  or  liability  on  the  Lessee  to  make  any  shut-in  royalty 
payment  or  other  payment  during  the  Primary  Term,  and  without  any  other  payment  this 
Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  during  the  Primary  Term.  The  obligation  to 
pay  the  shut-in  royalty  provided  for  above  shall  be  a  covenant  running  with  the  land. 

3.  If  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease,  oil,  gas,  or  other  rninerals 
are  not  being  produced  from  the  lands  or  land  pooled  with  the  lands  subject  to  this  Lease, 
but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling  or  reworking  operations,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in 
force  so  long  as  drilling  or  reworking  operations,  are  prosecuted  (whether  on  the  same  or 
different  wells)  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days,  and  if  they 
result  in  production,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  are  produced  from  the 
lands  or  land  pooled  with  the  lands  subject  to  this  Lease.  If  production  of  oil,  gas,  or 
other  minerals  on  the  lands  or  land  pooled  with  the  lands  should  cease  from  any  cause 
after  the  Primary  Term,  this  Lease  nevertheless  shall  continue  in  force  and  effect  as  long 
as  additional  drilling  operations  or  reworking  operations  are  conducted  on  this  Lease,  or 
on  any  acreage  pooled  with  the  lands,  which  additional  operations  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
had  when  not  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  the  abandonment  of  operations 
on  one  well  and  the  commencement  of  operations  on  another  well,  and  if  production  is 
obtained  this  Lease  shall  continue  as  long  as  oil,  gas,  or  other  minerals  are  produced  from 
the  lands  or  land  pooled  with  the  lands,  and  as  long  thereafter  as  additional  operations, 
either  drilling  or  reworking  are  had  on  the  lands  or  pooled  lands.  In  the  event  a  well  or 
wells  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  should  be  brought  in  on  adjacent  land  and 
within  467  feet  (or  333  feet  if  the  offset  well  is  producing  from  the  Barnett  Shale 
formation)  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises,  Lessee  agrees  to  drill  offset  wells  as  a 
reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances.  The 
judgment  of  the  Lessee,  when  not  fraudulently  exercised,  in  carrying  out  the  purpose  of 
this  Lease  shall  be  conclusive. 

4.  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  at  its  option,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time, 
and  without  Lessor's  joinder  or  further  consent,  is  given  the  right  and  power  to  pool  all  or 
any  part  of  the  land  or  any  interests  covered  by  this  Lease,  as  to  oil,  gas,  condensate  or 
distillate,  or  any  of  them,  or  either  of  them,  with  any  other  land,  interests,  lease  or  leases, 
or  any  of  them  adjacent,  adjoining,  or  located  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  lands, 
when  in  Lessee's  judgment  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  to  do  so  in  order  to  efficiently 
develop  or  operate  the  lands  in  compliance  with  the  spacing  rules  of  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas,  or  other  lawful  authority,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment 
of  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation  of  oil  and  gas  on  the  lands,  the  pooling  to  be  into  a 
well  unit  or  units  not  exceeding  forty  (40)  acres  for  oil  plus  an  acreage  tolerance  of  ten 
percent  (10%),  and  not  exceeding  six-hundred-forty  (640)  acres  for  gas  plus  an  acreage 
tolerance  of  ten  percent  (10%),  provided  that  should  the  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  may 
be  created  or  enlarged  to  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or  permitted 
by  governmental  regulations. 

Lessee  may  pool  all  or  part  of  the  land  or  interests  described  above,  provided  as  to 
oil  or  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata  and  any  units  formed  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area 
with  the  unit  or  units  into  which  the  lease  is  pooled  or  combined  as  to  any  other  stratum 
or  strata,  and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  The  pooling  in  one  or 
more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  the  rights  of  the  Lessee  to  pool  the  lands,  or  any  portion 
of  the  lands,  into  other  units.  Lessee  shall  execute  in  writing  and  file  for  record  in  the 
county  or  counties  where  the  lands  are  situated  an  instrument  designating  and  describing 
the  pooled  acreage,  which  pooling  and  designation  may  be  accomplished  either  before  or 
after  a  well  or  wells  are  drilled  or  completed  on  the  unit.  The  entire  acreage  so  pooled 
into  a  unit  shall  be  treated  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalties,  overriding 
royalties  or  payments  out  of  production,  as  if  it  were  included  in  this  Lease;  and  drilling 
or  reworking  operations,  production  of  oil  or  gas,  condensate  or  distillate,  cessation  of 
production,  or  the  existence  of  a  shut-in  gas  well,  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes, 
except  the  payment  of  royalties,  as  if  the  operations  were  conducted,  or  the  production  or 
cessation  of  production  or  existence  of  a  shut-in  gas  well  were  on  the  land,  whether  or  not 
the  well  or  wells  be  located  on  the  lands.  In  lieu  of  the  royalties,  overriding  royalties  or 
payment  out  of  production,  if  any,  specified  in  this  Lease,  Lessor  shall  receive  from  a  unit 
only  the  portion  of  the  royalty,  overriding  royalty  or  payment  out  of  production,  if  any,  as 

www.oilandgasforms.com  5 
TX-PU-PooIing 


the  amount  of  the  acreage  (mineral  acres)  in  the  lands  subject  to  this  Lease,  which  is 
placed  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  acreage  (surface  acres)  pooled  in  the  particular  unit 
involved.  Shut-in  gas  royalties  with  respect  to  unit  shut-in  gas  wells  shall  be  payable  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  and  in  the  amount  set  forth  in  this  Lease.  Should  any  unit 
created  by  the  terms  of  this  Lease  contain  less  than  the  maximum  number'  of  acres 
specified  or  allowed,  then  Lessee  may  at  any  later  time,  whether  before  or  after 
production  is  obtained  on  the  unit,  enlarge  the  unit  by  adding  additional  acreage,  but  the 
enlarged  unit  shall  in  no  event  exceed  the  acreage  content  specified  or  allowed.  In  the 
event  an  existing  unit  is  enlarged,  Lessee  shall  execute  and  file  for  record  in  the  county  or 
counties  in  which  the  lands  are  located  a  supplemental  designation  and  description  of  the 
land  added  to  the  existing  unit;  provided,  that  if  the  supplemental  designation  and 
description  is  not  filed  until  production  is  obtained  on  the  unit  as  originally  created,  then 
and  in  that  event  the  supplemental  designation  and  description  shall  not  become  effective 
until  the  first  day  of  the  calendar  month  next  following  the  filing.  At  any  time,  for  any 
reason,  or  in  the  event  the  well  or  wells  drilled  on  any  unit  shall  fail  to  produce  oil  or  gas, 
or  in  the  event  the  production  from  any  well  or  wells  shall  cease,  Lessee  may  terminate 
any  unitized  area.  A  termination  may  be  accomplished  by  filing  for  record  in  the  county 
or  counties  where  the  lands  are  located  proper  instruments  evidencing  that  termination. 

5.  Lessee  shall  have  the  free  use  of  oil,  gas,  and  water  from  the  lands,  except  water 
from  Lessor's  wells  and  tanks,  for  all  operations  under  this  Lease,  including  but  not 
limited  to  repressuring,  pressure  maintenance,  cycling,  and  secondary  recovery 
operations,  and  the  royalty  on  oil  and  gas  shall  be  computed  after  deducting  any  so  used. 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  during  or  after  the  expiration  of  this  Lease  to 
remove  all  property  and  fixtures  placed  on  the  lands  by  Lessee,  including  the  right  to 
draw  and  remove  all  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  within  two  hundred  feet  (200  ft.)  of 
any  residence  or  bam  now  on  the  lands,  without  Lessor's  consent. 

6.  The  rights  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  may  be  assigned  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  the 
provisions  of  this  Lease  shall  extend  to  the  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  successors, 
and  assigns  of  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  but  no  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the  lands 
or  royalties,  however  accomplished,  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish 
the  rights  of  Lessee  or  impair  the  effectiveness  of  any  payment  previously  made  by 
Lessee.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  the  lands  or  royalties  shall  impair  the 
effectiveness  of  any  payment  previously  made  by  Lessee  or  be  binding  on  Lessee  for  any 
purpose  (and  irrespective  of  whether  Lessee  has  either  actual  or  constructive  knowledge) 
until  60  days  after  the  person  acquiring  any  interest  has  furnished,  to  Lessee  with  the 
instrument  or  instruments  or  certified  copies  of  them,  constituting  the  person's  chain  of 
title  from  the  original  Lessor.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part 
and  such  transfer  is  permitted  according  to  Paragraph  25  below,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved 
of  all  obligations  thereafter  existing  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interests  from  and 
after  the  execution  date  of  the  assignment  transferring  such  interests,  and  failure  of  the 
transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interests,  shall  not 
affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interests  not  so  transferred.  Lessee  shall 
remain  obligated  hereunder  with  respect  to  matters  occurring  prior  to  the  execution  date 
of  such  assignment.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of 
the  area  covered  by  this  Lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder 
shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage 
interest  in  this  Lease  then  held  by  each. 

7.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  delays  or  defaults  in  its  performance  of  any 
agreement  or  covenant  in  this  Lease  due  to  force  majeure  (in  any  event,  not  to  exceed  two 
periods  of  twelve  (12)  consecutive  months  each).  The  term  "force  majeure"  shall  mean: 
any  act  of  God  including,  but  not  limited  to  storms,  floods,  washouts,  landslides,  and 
lightening;  acts  of  the  public  enemy;  wars,  blockades,  insurrection  or  riots;  strikes  or 
lockouts;  epidemics  or  quarantine  regulations;  laws,  acts,  orders,  or  requests  of  federal, 
state,  municipal  or  other  governments  or  other  governmental  officers  or  agents  under 
color  of  authority;  or  freight  embargoes.  If  Lessee  is  required,  ordered,  or  directed  by 
any  federal,  state,  or  municipal  law,  executive  order,  rule,  regulation,  or  request  enacted 
or  promulgated  under  color  of  authority  to  cease  drilling  operations,  reworking  operations 
or  producing  operations  on  the  lands  covered  by  this  Lease,  or  if  Lessee  by  force  majeure 
is  prevented  from  conducting  drilling  operations,  reworking  operations,  or  producing 


www.oilandgasforms.com 
TX-PU-Pooling 


operations,  then  until  such  time  as  such  law,  order,  rule,  regulation,  request,  or  force 
majeure  is  terminated  and  for  a  period  of  ninety  (90)  days  after  such  termination  each  and 
every  provision  of  this  Lease  that  might  operate  to  terminate  it  or  the  estate  conveyed  by 
it  shall  be  suspended  and  inoperative  and  this  Lease  shall  continue  in  full  force.  If  any 
period  of  suspension  occurs  during  the  Primary  Term,  that  time  shall  be  added  to  the 
Primary  Term.  None  of  the  protections  afforded  by  this  paragraph  shall  apply  to  any 
occurrence  or  cause  within  the  control  of  Lessee,  or  which  could  have  been  prevented  by 
Lessee,  in  the  exercise  of  reasonable  prudence. 

8.  Without  impairment  of  Lessee*  s  rights  under  any  warranty  of  title  set  forth  herein, 
in  the  event  of  failure  of  title  in  whole  or  in  part,  it  is  agreed  that  if  Lessor  does  not  own 
or  have  the  right  to  lease  the  entire  mineral  estate  purported  to  be  leased  in  the  land 
subject  to  this  Lease,  then  the  royalties  and  any  other  sums  payable  shall  be  reduced 
proportionately.  To  the  extent  any  royalty  or  other  payment  attributable  to  the  mineral 
estate  covered  by  the  Lease  is  payable  to  someone  other  than  Lessor,  such  royalty  or 
other  payment  shall  be  deducted  from  the  corresponding  amount  otherwise  payable  to 
Lessor  hereunder.  Should  any  party  named  above  as  Lessor  fail  to  execute  this  Lease,  or 
should  any  party  execute  the  Lease  who  is  not  named  as  a  Lessor,  it  shall  nevertheless  be 
binding  on  the  party  or  parties  executing  it. 

9.  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  surrender 
this  Lease,  in  whole  or  in  part,  to  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs  and  assigns  by  delivering  or 
mailing  a  release  to  the  Lessor,  or  by  placing  a  release  of  record  in  the  county  in  which 
the  lands  are  located.  After  that  time,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  from  all  obligations, 
expressed  or  implied,  of  this  Lease  as  to  the  lands  surrendered. 

10.  See  Exhibit  "B"  attached  hereto  for  additional  provisions  applicable  to  this  Lease. 
[SIGNATURES  AND  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  ON  FOLLOWING  PAGE] 


wvvw.oi  landgas  forms.com  7 
TX-PU-Pooling 


This  Lease  is  executed  by  Lessor  on  the  date  of  the  acknowledgment  of  Lessor's 
signature,  but  is  effective  as  of  the  Effective  Date. 


Lessor: 

LUMINANT  MINERAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMPANY  LLC 


Name:  Brett  Wiggs 
Title:    Authorized  Representative 


Lessee: 

CARRIZO  OIL  &  GAS  INC. 


By_ 
Title: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  DALLAS 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  yjj$MtZ 
Brett  Wiggs,  Authorized  Representative  of  Luminant  Mineral  Dev 
LLC,  on  behalf  of  said  limited  liability  company. 


2009,  by 
raent  Company, 


LINDA  J.  SPENCE  WEATHERFORD 
Notary  Public 
'$?JJj      STATE  OF  TEXAS 

^49E>^  MyComm, Exp, Ji>ne28. 2011 


Notary  Putflic,  State  of 
Printed  Name: 


Commission  Expires:. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on 
 ,  the  of 


on  behalf  of  said 


2009,  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of. 
Printed  Name: 


Commission  Expires:, 


www.QilandgasfonTis.CQin 
TX-PU-Pooling 


EXHIBIT  A 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  by  and  between  Luminant 
Mineral  Development  Company,  LLC,  as  Lessor  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  as  Lessee 
dated  January  23,  2009 

Being  4.965  acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  J.  Bridgman  Survey,  Abstract  #  186,  more 
particularly  described  in  that  certain  Warranty  Deed  by  and  between  Erie  L.  Conner, 
Grantor  and  Texas  Electric  Service  Company,  Grantee,  dated  April  3,  1969,  recorded 
Volume  4707,  Page  540,  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas.  D-2025 


KXTTTRTT  R 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  by  and  between  Luminant 
Mineral  Development  Company,  LLC,  as  Lessor  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc,  as  Lessee, 
dated  January  23, 2009, 

11.  These  additional  provisions  are  attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  Lease.  In  the 
event  of  a  conflict  between  the  terms  and  provisions  contained  in  this  Exhibit  B  and  the 
terms  and  provisions  of  the  foregoing  form  Lease,  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this 
Exhibit  B  will  control. 

12.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  hereof: 

(A)  this  Lease  covers  only  oil,  gas  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons, 
and  other  substances  of  any  nature  produced  in  conjunction  with  said 
hydrocarbons;  and 

(B)  this  Lease  is  limited  to  the  depths  from  the  surface  of  the  earth  to  the  base 
of  the  Barnett  Shale  Formation 

13.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the  foregoing  form  Lease,  this  Lease 
grants  no  rights  of  access  to,  or  use  of,  the  surface  of  the  lands  described  herein  except 
for  conducting  seismic  operations  by  way  of  utilizing  the  vibroseis-method  only  (no 
explosives),  and  wherever  in  this  Lease  the  terms  "land"  or  "lands"  are  used,  the  same 
shall  be  deemed  to  refer  solely  to  the  subsurface  of  the  lands.  Lessee  is,  however, 
granted  a  subsurface  easement  to  horizontally  drill  under  the  surface  of  the  lands  covered 
hereby  for  wells  producing  under  the  lands  and  lands  pooled  therewith.  Except  as  to  the 
seismic  operations  noted  above,  Lessee  is  prohibited  from  undertaking  any  acts  which  in 
any  manner  will  interfere  with  Lessor's  use  and  operation  of  Lessor's  facilities  located  on 
or  above  the  land  covered  hereby.  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  for  all  damages,  if  any,  which 
may  be  inflicted  upon  the  surface  of  the  lands  as  a  direct  result  from  said  seismic 
operations.  No  well  on  the  lands,  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith  may  be  drilled 
nearer  than  200  feet  from  any  facility  or  structure  belonging  to  Lessor. 

14.  This  lease  may  not  be  maintained  by  the  shut-in  gas  royalty  provisions  of 
Paragraph  4  after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  for  more  than  2  years  in  the 
aggregate,  calculated  by  the  aggregate  total  amount  of  shut-in  time  during  the  productive 
life  of  the  shut-in  well. 

15.  The  parties  hereto  acknowledge  that  this  Lease  covers  numerous  non-contiguous 
tracts  of  land  (referred  to  collectively  herein  as  the  "Tracts"),  all  of  which  must  be 
developed  by  including  the  Tracts  in  a  pooled  unit(s)  with  other  acreage  not  covered  by 
this  Lease.  No  Tract  may  be  pooled  or  unitized  by  Lessee  unless  the  entirety  of  the  Tract 
is  included  in  the  unit  so  created.  A  pooled  unit  for  a  gas  well  that  is  drilled  as  a 
horizontal  drainhole  well  under  Rule  86  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  the  State  of 
Texas  and  is  completed  in  the  Barnett  Shale  formation  shall  not  exceed  forty  (40)  acres 
plus  the  additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  of  such  Rule  86  for  Fields  with  a  Density 
Rule  greater  than  40  acres;  provided  however  in  the  event  of  multiple  horizontal  gas 
wells  being  drilled  in  the  Barnett  Shale  formation,  Lessee  has  the  option  but  not  the 
obligation  to  form  one  pooled  unit  in  accordance  with  its  authority  as  provided  in 
paragraph  4  so  long  that  the  collective  acreage  being  pooled  in  relation  to  each  such  well 
does  not  exceed  that  which  is  permitted  under  Statewide  Rule  86  as  provided  herein.  No 
pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  two  or  more  Tracts  is  intended 
or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  Tracts  within  this 
Lease,  The  formation  of  any  unit  hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this 
Lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any  interest  under  this  Lease 
(including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this 
Lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  Lease  and  parties  owning 
interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this  Lease,  Lessee  may  not  release  any  of  the  lands 
described  herein  from  a  pooled  unit(s),  unless  all  pooled  leases  are  released  as  to  the 
lands  within  the  unit(s).  At  any  time  while  this  Lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any 
unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  Lease  is 
recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  no  operations  are  being  conducted 


thereon  for  unitized  minerals.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  4  and  this  paragraph 

15,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject 
thereto  shall  remain  in  force. 

16,  At  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  (if  this  Lease  is  maintained  in  effect  at  the 
expiration  of  the  Primary  Term),  Lessee  must  commence  a  continuous  development 
program  with  respect  to  any  Tracts  not  included  in  pooled  units  as  of  such  date.  The  term 
"continuous  development  program"  means  that  not  more  than  180  days  may  elapse 
between  the  deemed  date  of  completion  of  one  (1)  well  and  the  commencement  of  actual 
drilling  operations  for  the  next  succeeding  well  and  such  operations  shall  continue  in  a 
like  manner  until  such  time  that  all  Tracts  are  included  in  pooled  units.  If  at  the  end  of  the 
Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  Lessee  is  not  engaged  in  drilling  operations,  but  Lessee  has 
completed  a  well  on  the  lands  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  one  hundred  eighty  (180) 
days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  Lessee  shall  nonetheless  be  deemed  to  be 
engaged  in  continuous  drilling  operations  provided  a  succeeding  well  is  commenced 
within  one-hundred  and  eighty  (180)  days  from  the  date  of  completion  of  the  preceding 
well  that  was  completed  within  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the 
Primary  Term.  If,  during  the  period  Lessee  is  deemed  to  be  engaged  in  operations  in 
compliance  with  the  continuous  drilling  program  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  loses  or  junks  the 
hole  or  well  or  encounters  any  other  mechanical  or  technical  difficulties  incident  to 
drilling  and  after  diligent  effort  in  good  faith  is  unable  to  complete  said  operations,  then 
Lessee  may  preserve  Lessee's  rights  hereunder  by  commencing,  not  later  than  ninety 
(90)  days  after  the  date  of  the  abandonment  of  said  lost  or  junked  well,  the  drilling  of  a 
substitute  well  at  a  site  on  the  tract  upon  which  the  lost  or  junked  hole  was  commenced 
but  not  completed,  and  by  thereafter  completing  said  substitute  well.  In  such  event  the 
completion  of  the  substitute  well  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  completion  of  the  lost  or  junked 
well  in  compliance  with  the  continuous  drilling  program  defined  herein.  If  more  than  180 
days  elapse  between  the  completion  of  one  well  and  the  commencement  of  the  next 
succeeding  well  as  stated  above,  then  this  Lease  will  terminate  as  to  all  Tracts  not  then 
included  in  pooled  units  on  which  a  producing  well  exists  (including  a  well  capable  of 
producing  that  is  deemed  producing  by  the  proper  payment  of  shut-in  royalty).  After  a 
Tract  is  included  in  a  pooled  unit,  the  Tract  shall  be  considered  subject  to  a  separate 
Lease,  containing  terms  and  provisions  identical  to  those  set  forth  in  this  Lease.  Each 
such  separate  Lease  may  be  kept  in  force  and  effect  only  by  actual  or  constructive 
production  or  operations  on  the  pooled  unit  in  which  such  Tract  is  included,  without 
regard  to  production  or  drilling  operations  on  other  pooled  units  in  which  other  Tracts  are 
included.  Within  90  days  after  any  partial  termination  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  shall  execute 
and  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  all  lands,  save  and  except  the 
Tracts  as  to  which  this  Lease  is  preserved  as  set  forth  herein.  For  the  purposes  of  this 
paragraph,  (i)  a  well  shall  be  deemed  to  have  commenced  when  a  rig  and  machinery 
capable  of  drilling  to  a  depth  sufficient  to  test  the  Barnett  Shale  formation  has  been 
erected  on  the  well  location  and  (ii)  the  completion  date  of  non-producing  wells  shall  be 
the  date  of  final  plugging  and  abandonment,  and  the  completion  date  of  producing  wells 
shall  be  the  date  the  well  is  physically  completed  and  capable  of  production,  including 
the  completion  of  the  potential  test  and  all  other  tests  required  by  the  regulatory  agency 
having  jurisdiction;  provided,  the  term  completion  date  of  a  well  shall  never  be  deemed 
to  be  more  than  sixty  (60)  days  following  release  of  the  drilling  rig. 

17,  Lessee  shall,  jointly  and  severally,  mdernnify,  hold  free  and  harmless,  assume 
liability  for,  and  defend  Lessor,  its  affiliates,  agents,  servants,  employees,  officers,  and 
directors  from  any  and  all  costs  and  expenses  including,  but  not  limited  to,  attorneys' 
fees,  reasonable  investigative  and  discovery  costs,  court  costs,  and  all  other  sums 
(collectively,  "Claims")  which  Lessor,  its  affiliates,  agents,  servants,  employees,  officers, 
and  directors  may  pay  or  become  obligated  to  pay  on  account  of  any,  all  and  every 
demand  for,  claim  or  assertion  of  liability,  or  any  claim  or  action  founded  thereon,  arising 
or  alleged  to  have  arisen  out  of  Lessee's  or  their  affiliates'  use  of  real  or  personal 
property  belonging  to  Lessor,  its  affiliates,  agents,  servants,  employees,  officers,  and 
directors,  and  including  specifically  the  lands  described  herein,  or  by  any  action  or 
omission  by  Lessee  or  their  affiliates  and  their  respective  members,  agents,  servants, 
employees,  officers  or  directors,  or  due  to  any  operation  or  other  action  taken  by  Lessee 
on  the  Leased  Premises,  unless  the  Claims  result  solely  from  the  negligence  or  willful 
misconduct  of  Lessor. 


18.  Information  to  be  furnished  to  Lessor: 

(A)  copies  of  all  applications  for  drilling  permits  and  initially  designated  units 
filed  with  the  Texas  Railroad  Commission  and/or  executed  by  Lessee,  the  drilling 
of  the  initial  well  on  such  unit  or  any  of  the  other  lands  included  in  this  Lease;  and 

(B)  copies  of  any  assignment  or  farmout  agreement  of  this  Lease,  or  any 
interest  therein,  within  30  days  of  the  date  of  such  document. 

(C)  copies  of  daily  drilling  reports  of  which  this  lease  is  included  in  the  Pooled 
Unit. 

19.  All  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Lease  are  hereby  expressly  made  subject  to  all 
Federal,  State  and  Local  laws  and  to  all  orders,  rules,  regulations  and  standards  issued 
thereunder  by  all  duly  constituted  political  subdivisions  and  agencies  having  jurisdiction 
and  this  Lease  shall  ipso  facto  be  considered  supplemented  and/or  amended  accordingly 
to  make  this  Lease  subject  thereto,  and  Lessee  hereby  warrants  that  it  will  comply  with 
any  and  all  such  laws,  orders,  rules,  regulations  and  standards  of  all  such  Federal,  State 
and  Local  political  subdivisions  and  agencies  applicable  to  the  control,  regulation  and 
prevention  of  pollution  and  discharge  and  Lessee  expressly  agrees  to  wdemnify  and  hold 
Lessors  free  and  harmless  from  any  damages,  claims,  costs,  demands,  fines,  causes  of 
action  and  losses  of  whatever  nature  arising  out  of  or  in  connection  with  any  failure  of 
compliance  or  violation  of  any  such  laws,  orders,  rules,  regulations  and  standards. 

20.  EXCEPT  AS  EXPRESSLY  SET  FORTH  HEREIN,  LESSOR  DISCLAIMS  ALL 
WARRANTIES  OF  ANY  KIND,  EXPRESS  OR  IMPLIED,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT 
LIMITATION,  ANY  WARRANTY  OF  TITLE  WITH  RESPECT  TO  THE  LEASED 
PREMISES. 

21.  All  written  notices  required  under  this  Lease  must  be  hand  delivered  or  sent  by 
certified  mail  addressed  to  the  proper  party  at  the  following  address: 

Lessor:  LUMINANT  MINERAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMPANY,  LLC 

Attention:  Oil  &  Gas  Mineral  Development 
500Akard-LP10 
Dallas,  TX  75201 


Lessee:  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc. 

1000  Louisiana  St.,  #1500 
Houston,  Texas  77002 

22.  All  royalty  payments  are  to  be  made  payable  to  Luminant  Mineral  Development 
Company,  LLC  and  mailed  to  Lessor  as  follows: 

Luminant  Mineral  Development  Company,  LLC 
Attention:  Oil  &  Gas  Mineral  Development 
500  N.  Akard,-LP  10 
Dallas,  Texas  75201 

23.  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  exclusive  option  to  extend  the  Primary  Term  of  this 
Lease  for  an  additional  two  (2)  years  from  the  expiration  of  the  original  Primary  Term. 
This  option  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  during  the  last  year  of  the  original 
Primary  Term  by  paying  to  Lessor,  herein,  or  its  successors  or  assigns,  an  amount  equal 
to  two-thirds  (2/3rds)  of  the  eight-eighths  (8/8ths)  cash  bonus  paid  when  this  Lease  was 
originally  acquired  ("Lease  Extension").  Lessee  shall  exercise  the  Lease  Extension  by 
placing  written  notice  of  such  election  along  with  the  referenced  payment  to  Lessor  prior 
to  the  end  of  the  original  Primary  Term  hereof.  The  Lease  Extension  shall  be  deemed  to 
be  properly,  timely  and  fully  exercised  if  payment  is  mailed  by  Lessee  to  Lessor's  last 
known  address  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term.  It  is  agreed  and 
understood  that  Lessee  shall  have  no  obligation  to  conduct  continuous  development 


program  operations  during  the  Lease  Extension  should  it  exercise  its  rights  in  accordance 
with  this  Paragraph  23. 

24.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject 
to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction,  including  environmental  regulations,  setback  requirements,  restrictions  on 
the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered 
hereby.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  that,  in  the  event  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  to  seek  a 
variance,  waiver  or  other  relief  from  any  laws,  rules,  regulations,  or  orders  (which  for 
purposes  of  this  paragraph  shall  include  any  ordinance)  or  other  such  authority  exercised 
by  any  other  governmental  entity  or  authority  having  jurisdiction,  then  Lessor  shall 
engage  in  reasonable  acts  (at  no  cost  and  expense  to  Lessor)  and  execute  and  deliver  such 
instruments  and  documents  Lessee  deems  necessary  or  convenient  in  seeking  such  relief. 
In  the  event  Lessee  is  required  by  such  authority  to  acquire  Lessor's  consent  as  a 
prerequisite  to  obtain  such  variance,  waiver  or  other  relief,  Lessor  grants  to  Lessee  and 
agrees  that  Lessee's  leasehold  estate  acquired  hereunder  includes  the  right  to  utilize  this 
Lease  as  Lessor's  consent  and  ratification  of  any  subsequent  variance,  waiver  or  other 
relief  Lessee  seeks,  without  the  necessity  of  Lessee  obtaining  any  additional  or 
subsequent  consent(s)  from  Lessor.  Lessor  furthermore  agrees  not  to  execute  documents 
or  instruments  or  engage  in  acts  that  would  diminish  or  adversely  affect  the  relief  Lessee 
is  seeking.  Lessor  is  not  obligated  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  if,  by 
so  doing,  any  terms  of  this  Lease  would  be  altered,  modified  or  amended. 

25.  It  is  expressly  understood  and  agreed  that  Lessor  is  granting  rights  to  Lessee  that 
Lessor  would  not  grant  to  others.  Therefore,  prior  written  approval  of  Lessor  is  required 
for  any  assignment  or  sublease  of  this  Lease,  which  approval  shall  not  be  unreasonably 
withheld,  provided,  however,  that  such  prior  approval  shall  not  be  required  if  the  assignee 
is  a  publicly  traded  energy  company  with  a  market  capital  greater  than  $250,000,000  and 
that  operates  at  least  ten  (10)  wells  producing  form  the  Barnett  Shale  formation.  All 
assignments  and  subleases  must  require  the  assignee  or  sub-lessee  to  assume  all  of 
Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease. 


