A REPORT 
TO THE 
IWMATONNIENES 
LEGISLATURE 


LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
BWNION 








Montana Heritage 
Commission: Managing 
Virginia City, Nevada 
City, and Reeder’s Alley 
Historic Properties 


Montana Heritage Commission 


Aprit 2017 





LEGISLATIVE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE 


REPRESENTATIVES 
RANDY BRODEHL, CHAIR 
Randybrodehl57@gmail.com 

Kim ABBOTT 
Rep.Kim.Abbott@mt.gov 
DAN BARTEL 
Danbartel2@gmail.com 
TOM BURNETT 
Burnett.tom@gmail.com 
VIRGINIA COURT 
virginacourt@yahoo.com 


DENISE HAYMAN 
Rep.Denise. Hayman@mt.gov 




















SENATORS 


DEE BROWN 
senatordee@yahoo.com 





TERRY GAUTHIER 
Mrmac570@me.com 
BoB KEENAN 
Sen.Bob.Keenan@mt.gov 
Mary MCNALLY, VICE CHAIR 
McNally4MTLeg@gmail.com 
J.P. POMNICHOWSKI 
pomnicho@montanadsl.net 
GENE VUCKOVICH 
Sen.Gene.Vuckovich@mt.gov 

















MEMBERS SERVE UNTIL A 
MEMBER'S LEGISLATIVE TERM 
OF OFFICE ENDS OR UNTIL A 
SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED, 
WHICHEVER OCCURS FIRST. 


§5-13-202(2), MCA, 


FRAUD HOTLINE 
(STATEWIDE) 
1-800-222-4446 
(IN HELENA) 


444-4446 
ladhotline@mt.gov 





PERFORMANCE AUDITS 


Performance audits conducted by the Legislative Audit Division 
are designed to assess state government operations. From the 
audit work, a determination is made as to whether agencies and 
programs are accomplishing their purposes, and whether they 
can do so with greater efficiency and economy. 


We conducted this performance audit in accordance with 
generally accepted government auditing standards. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We 
believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis 
for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 
Members of the performance audit staff hold degrees in 
disciplines appropriate to the audit process. 


Performance audits are conducted at the request of the Legislative 
Audit Committee which is a bicameral and bipartisan standing 
committee of the Montana Legislature. The committee consists 
of six members of the Senate and six members of the House of 
Representatives. 


AUDIT STAFE 


SARAH CARLSON WILLIAM SOLLER 


Reports can be found in electronic format at: 
http://leg.mt.gov/audit 


Deputy Legislative Auditors 
Cindy Jorgenson 
Joe Murray 


Angus Maciver, Legislative Auditor 
Deborah F. Butler, Legal Counsel 





April 2017 


The Legislative Audit Committee 
of the Montana State Legislature: 


This is our performance audit of the Montana Heritage Commission (MHC) 
management of its historic properties. Overall, we found MHC manages its properties 
in a manner that both preserves the properties and encourages economic stability as 
required by law. 


However, our work identified opportunities for MHC to adopt a more business-oriented 
approach by engaging commissioners more fully, improving organizational planning 
processes, and gathering additional information. We make three recommendations 
related to these issues in the report. A written response from MHC is included at the 
end of the report. 


We wish to express our appreciation to MHC members and personnel for their 
cooperation and assistance during the audit. 


Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Angus Maciver 


Angus Maciver 
Legislative Auditor 


Room 160 ¢ State Capitol Building * PO Box 201705 * Helena, MT * 59620-1705 
Phone (406) 444-3122 * FAX (406) 444-9784 * E-Mail lad@mt.gov 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Pipers cited Vala cis eisai ada catanGesdscnsicaal oidiod eidcesdeiostind nie eamieatadeuteteianiesdeadnehaaeea ates iii 
A ppoihited aid Aman istrative OM eta ca tesas teint Recetas deed cushayt aetiedeeteicey aed alana iv 
REPOLE SUMMARY scescsusstes fiisevutietscaesecsestsvtetvstseecsscieteds stesesisttarielssstassuastestadsvissssecthusieissiesenaves S-l 
CHAPTER I- INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND sesssscscsessvossasenessosssasesessvvssesstecsnvascsbtecsassavevecess 1 
TiROCUCHON assoc dessiiteeereeenenoeeaeamennimewdaaen ener enmemieNenaeamene 1 
Organizational and Funding Changes Have Occurred at MHC... ceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeees 1 
Aalst SCO Pe atid OMjSCtyes wcasncessvarncenscivniiecisnciaoctynctinstivnictnacdanctwsadvadhnnaiunetwneinnekwvedectsvedbndsiveives 2 
PRUE WEEN Ge BES pp iasapeo'scapanaeergnorvncian Goran rane teeminenteenaeinna miner Gentvoatnmpo eT 2 
What ls the Montana Pletitace Comission sciccustedahicxciesctociacteicrutaantndensionaindd 3 
Montana Heritage Commission Membership Roles and Responsibilities... eee 4 
DVM ace ts ME pe ca ces cng ues ac React aie necneneoe ecm eatin caonials cuuatvianteetelaaiaetant > 
Montata Fleritage ( oiiintssicis Fiminchity Gs istisct esuist ctinchuntteaiicd sechanecncentid aheandlocaelcuanaenaiext 6 
Montana Heritage Commnission Expeticlitiites.2.ccciscssscissntssssdsacsctsnidincsiaccssctsselineriectenctuncduetued 8 
Sustainability, Protecting History, Economic Stability, and Planning Covered in Repott........ 9 


CHAPTER II — SUSTAINABILITY OF HISTORIC ORGANIZATIONS AND BEST HISTORIC 


OE PR AG TCS. wa vac ceseseretepunituavewatunusisnes ases vou vevnto tocsuseauvavedensavegudeusuas desexusunsvsusdansansdenevsceisiveusveesmienuesnes 11 
Tipe TUCO spscctusces atineeasidesnecdeceusandedtanaturecundsvoiuacescehncsnscivnc ucctune a wivacsisctuactuccvectaestoatangientiis 11 

Pel steers Crs airat atti Geli SUH ICI cusspGescrvcberesertncrdvoneppentacp aves Rip dawbuncebvent peroncnentalvent ponent 11 

MEHG's Earned Revenue Aligns With Peet Groups. .cssacasainscanieisacssssisnearvestocasvearocasvesacess 12 

Characteristics of Sustainable Historic Organizations sris.cscsnisspsovesavecunssusensnessvensacabyvevnenevnsend 13 

Best Practices tor Maniaging Historic Properties iscciteisisieiciostisssionsindesoataicinntisacieadeanciondeelaseuss 14 

Best Practices at Organizations Managing Pistarie S128 snc itendececidcnmmomicuntateceoun 16 


CHAPTER III - SAFEGUARDING HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND FOSTERING ECONOMIC 


STABILIT Y...........csssssssssssssssscsssssscssssssnsssscsscsscsnssesssscsscssesssessesseesessscsscssessensesssessecssesessessssessessnssessscssenseesenss 19 
TAGEOCU GION  s:cdsassetetnnshustenaveenstenenraeashoknnctinunancunncnneninnehe amamnmenncagialgiartetmcumoiebabemenats 19 
MHC Funding Trends Include Static Bed Tax Revenue and Increasing Earned Revenue...... 19 
MHC Expenditures Balance Historic Preservation and Economic Stability..........ceseeee 21 
MHC Has Improved Its Stewardship Of ResOurces sncssssisnspsuspsnsnssspssunsespiousasupcctvuiopersnenes 23 
More Commissioner Engagement Needed ss.6is.csscssnotialscisscarscasucivecaneavaivelvsaipicaeanaceasivans 25 
Active Oversight Requires Informed Commissioner s........cccesssssssseseseseeeesesessseseseseenees 25 
Oversight Diminished by Limited Understanding of Commissioner Roles... 26 
MHC Needs to Provide New Commissioners With Specific Information ........cee 26 
CHAPTER IV —- IMPROVING MONTANA HERITAGE COMMISSION STRATEGIC AND 
BUSINESS PLANNING PROCESSES .........scssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssnsessssssecssssessscsssessessnssessscesenseessnss 29 
VAGROCMU GUIs asanessicsraudieun iansyes snehsneurnusnhonwltbwntoet ancetls wWhationsasasamsaseentncaasennmiorsnntnlc arnanearaveiiies 29 
MHC Business Plan Assumptions Needed to Understand Complete Picture..........esceeee 29 
Tactical Planning for Properties Possible With More MHC Visitor Data... 30 
MHC Needs to Prioritize Expanded Data Crater sssceisciasccsscinadcnssisoeieescinicanctuoncieins 31 
Improving MHC’s Strategic and Business Planning Processesics.ccsscssssesvssrscesisssssesoseseresoasveaess 31 
MHC Business Plan Should Answer Timeline and Resource Questions ........:csseeeceee 32 
Contextual Information Needed in Planning for Successful Transitions and Measuring 
Success LATEL cpincicssasaunsiansennsnenbainvinnenrpeinpsvan isto aesbees isseereratuinertvteuneispertinnieimmencslveieias 32 
MHC Strategic Plan Should Answer Resource and Strategic Analysis Questions .......... a3 
MHC Needs to Strengthen Strategic and Business Planning... eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 34 


CO NESE) 


ii 


| Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


COMMISSION RESPONSE 
Montania Peritage: Commissions wiecsccsssevscesctotiveiscetivveesebensessstistsecatbvasesetbesescestyeaveetbenstaeestedis A-l 


FIGURES AND TABLES 


Figures 
Figure 1 


Figure 2 
Figure 3 
Figure 4 
Figure 5 
Figure 6 
Figure 7 
Figure 8 


Tables 
Table 1 


Table 2 
Table 3 


Viteuiia Cary at 300) Wallace Strestisassitatidenidennctsctueancuennnieniemeanrnunaienns 4 
Montana Heritage Commission Organization Chart sasscicssssesscestssicervivestsnosesvscetssneaesvveneveesy 6 
Montana Heritage Commission Funding Sources sisssscsssscctssscassvacscasossisneasapscteaonscusncanninecossbons 7 
Montana Heritage Commission Expenditure Categories asisessccsssassaceostatousastavdeenstueboerebnnseonaocy 8 
Fatned Revenue Expressed as Percentage of Ex peti itutess.cssccsacstvenoscesnssiepveteunvevenossnenssbeons’ 13 
Montana. Hetitage Cominissiom Funding Tretds sissssiassecesseisasseeaainseasseusoistnscsertiolenvtteer 20 
Montana Heritage Commission Fxpendinure Trends sissseadssacssinncsssselciveiscanoeteensisvecciusisany 22 
Pitre tap, aetied, Beaeppectrel Atte sess ses de ceasccncanstendestasvensnege tev coachvrenennsebssneacasssasshoaoneoeipiesssrnern 24 


MHC Characteristics Compared to Characteristics of 


Sustainable Historie Ore aml ZAtlOuis cos csewavsoesocnsiuncaexsiracsnsenisuvooxsivannecaneuesbotaronpecinivunsensntanens 14 
Sanapleor Pece Oreandzat tots Resear Gd sicecuis2esciseesssesenisinuniseasavenebasinncsGeeossi eatercsaneeassenies 15 
Satuple of Organizational Guidance Reviewed siastituisscvieiastivdadsnnss vised ions uadtuipsastanecesindesans 16 


iv 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


APPOINTED AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS 


Montana Heritage Marilyn Ross, Chairperson 


Commission 


Bill Howell, Vice-Chairperson 


Matthew Marcinek (Representing the 
Director of Fish, Wildlife & Parks) 


Jennifer Pelej (Representing the Director 
of Commerce) 


Bruce Whittenberg (Director of the 
Historical Society) 


Cyndy Andrus 
Bill Beck 

Barbie Durham 
David Hoffman 
Shera Konen 
Timothy Lehman 
Philip Maechling 
Stan Ozark 


Andy Poole 


Elijah Allen, Executive Director 


Location 


Twin Bridges 
West Yellowstone 


Helena 
Helena 


Helena 


Bozeman 
Whitefish 
Cameron 
Helena 
Ennis 
Billings 
Florence 
Glasgow 


Helena 


Virginia City 





‘Term Expires 


May 2019 
May 2019 


Permanent 
Permanent 


Permanent 


May 2017 
May 2018 
May 2019 
May 2017 
May 2019 
May 2017 
May 2019 
May 2019 


May 2017 


N/A 






APRIL 2017 


PERFORMANCE AUDIT 
Montana Heritage Commission: Managing 
Virginia City, Nevada City, and Reeder’s 
Alley Historic Properties 


Montana Heritage Commission 


MOoNntTANA LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIVISION 





16P-05 REPORT SUMMARY 


Montana Heritage Commission earned revenues have increased every year 
since 2012, from $335,442 to $515,212 in 2016. Since 2011, MHC has reduced 


staff by 60 percent and staff expenditures by more than $400,000 by cutting 
six positions. MHC manages its properties in a manner that both preserves 
the properties and encourages economic stability as required by law. We 
found opportunities for MHC to adopt a more business-oriented approach 
through engaging commissioners more fully, improving organizational 
planning processes, and gathering additional information to support its 


business plan. 





Context 
The buildings and artifacts making up the 


attractions in Virginia and Nevada Cities were 
purchased by the state for $6.5 million in 1997. 
‘The purchase included 148 buildings,160 acres 
of land, and 1 million artifacts that are currently 
estimated at a value, for insurance purposes, 
of nearly $50 million. In order to manage the 
properties, the Legislature also established the 
Montana Heritage Commission (MHC) in 
1997, tasking it with hiring staff and running 
day-to-day operations in Virginia and Nevada 
Cities. MHC properties expanded in 2000 
with the addition of Reeder’s Alley, including 


Pioneer Cabin, in Helena. 


Results 


Audit work included analyzing financial 
documents to determine trends from fiscal 
years 2012 through 2016, including private 
and public funding levels. Audit work also 
included reviewing governance documents 
from fiscal years 2012 through 2016, 
researching meeting notes from 1997 through 
2016, attending MHC meetings, interviewing 


commissioners and MHC staff, and observing 
visitor activities at MHC historic locations. 


Compared to peer organizations, we found 
MHC to bea sustainable historic preservation 
organization. Our audit work determined 
MHC manages its properties in a manner 
that both preserves the properties and 
encourages economic stability as required by 
law. However, there is room for improvement 
in the areas of commissioner engagement, 
organizational planning, and information 
collection. This audit makes the following 
three recommendations to MHC. 


¢ — Strengthen and improve commission 
engagement by providing training, 
developing a commissioner’s job 
description, and providing specific 
materials to new commissioners. 


¢ Expand its information collection 
practice to include gathering and 
documenting assumptions and other 
background data used to develop 
business plans, and demographic 


(continued on back) 


S-1 


and other detailed data regarding 
visitors and their MHC attraction 
preferences. 


Recommendation Concurrence 


Strengthen its —_— organizational 
planning processes by expanding 
its business and strategic planning 
to include other information such 


: ; Source: Agency audit response included in 
as timelines, assessment of current final report 


resources, and strategic analysis. 





For a complete copy of the report (16P-05) or for further information, contact the 
Legislative Audit Division at 406-444-3122; e-mail to lad@mt.govy; or check the web site at 


http://leg.mt.gov/audit 
Report Fraud, Waste, and Abuse to the Legislative Auditor's FRAUD HOTLINE 


Call toll-free 1-800-222-4446, or e-mail lad@mt.gov. 





Chapter | — Introduction and Background 


Introduction 


When the Legislative Audit Committee identified its preferences for 2016 performance 
audits, the management of the state’s historic properties in Virginia City, Nevada City, 
and Reeder’s Alley generated high interest. The Montana Heritage Preservation and 
Development Commission, known as the Montana Heritage Commission (MHC), 
the entity responsible for managing these properties, received the second highest 
ranking from the committee. In 2002-03, the Legislative Audit Division conducted 
a performance audit of the effectiveness of the management of Virginia and Nevada 
Cities and made five recommendations relating to strengthening site management 
through the development of business-like controls and defined accountability. 
Recommendations addressed reallocating staff resources, consolidating property 
management, prioritizing artifact management, re-defining the role of the Commission, 
and restructuring site management. The Commission concurred with the majority of 
the recommendations and follow-up audit work shows they have been implemented. 
The audit also recommended MHC no longer be attached to the Montana Historical 
Society and, instead, be attached to the Parks Division of Montana Fish, Wildlife, 
and Parks; it is no longer attached to the Montana Historical Society and is currently 
attached to the Department of Commerce (DOC). In this chapter, we discuss how 
MHC is now organized and how it currently manages its properties. We describe 
specific audit work completed and the objectives we used to direct our current efforts. 


Organizational and Funding Changes 
Have Occurred at MHC 


There have been organizational and funding changes at MHC since 2003. It is 
administratively attached to DOC, to which MHC pays an administrative fee in 
exchange for assistance related to human resources, legal work, and some public 
relations. Management staff now lives in Virginia City and a staff evaluation system 
is in place. The Environmental Quality Council (EQC) studied MHC during both 
the 2011-12 and 2013-14 interims and developed EQC-sponsored legislation for the 
2015 session, which passed. This legislation removed a prohibition for MHC to receive 
general fund appropriations and also removed the requirement that MHC manage 
properties in a way which “encourages economic independence.” Per §22-3-1001, 
MCA, the commission shall now manage the properties in a manner that “encourages 
economic stability,” largely removing the idea that the historic properties will eventually 
be self-sufficient. This current audit was performed in order to provide the most recent 
information regarding how MHC is being managed. 


CO SEE 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 





Audit Scope and Objectives 


In order to provide current information about MHC management, planning, 
activities, and funding, our audit focused on fiscal years 2012 through 2016. In some 
instances other materials were reviewed, such as meeting notes from 1997 to the 
present to determine changes in priorities and structure over a longer time period. 
In addition, long-time concessionaires were asked to describe MHC management 
approaches over the time they have been renting from MHC. During assessment and 
early audit work we developed four objectives, identified below, related to researching 
MHC’s management and how it plans for the future. The first two objectives are 
designed to ascertain the necessary features of successful management and planning 
tools for historic organizations similar to MHC. ‘The last two objectives focus more 
on MHC’s work and determining how it aligns with best practices. Audit work also 
compared MHC activities to what Montana law requires of the commission related to 
the management of it’s properties and assessed the quality of the information used in 
MHC governance and planning documents. The four objectives for our work are as 
follows: 


1. Determine best practices for the management of MHC properties compared 
to peer organizations. 


2. Quantify the public and private funding levels necessary for MHC to 
manage its properties. 


3. Determine if MHC is managing its properties in a manner that both protects 
the properties and encourages economic stability. 


4, Evaluate data and assumptions used in MHC’s strategic and business plans 
for relevancy and accuracy. 


Audit Methodologies 


To address our objectives, we conducted the following audit work: 


¢ = Interviewed MHC members and staff to determine processes used to 
manage the organization’s work, what management views as priorities, and 
if they believe MHC manages properties in a manner that both protects the 
properties and encourages economic stability. 


¢ Reviewed MHC enabling statute and related administrative rules to determine 
what requirements related to things such as commission membership, state 
funding, and artifact disposal are placed on MHC, and if there had been 
any recent changes in those requirements. 


¢ Observed visitor interactions at MHC properties to determine the general 
demographics of visitors, which attractions received the most traffic, and if 
visitors were engaged by the displays. 


¢ Interviewed concessionaires regarding their interactions with MHC to 
determine if they believe current MHC management is attentive to their 
needs and, with long-time concessionaires, ascertain how they view current 
management related to previous management circumstances. 


¢ Observed MHC quarterly meetings to determine how the staff, 
commissioners, and local leaders interact with each other regarding the 
management of MHC properties. 


¢ Analyzed MHC meeting notes from 1997 through 2016 to determine how 
MHC balances its dual economic and preservation responsibilities and how 
these responsibilities have evolved during this time frame. 


¢ = Analyzed MHC financial information from fiscal years 2012 through 2016, 
to determine MHC’s priorities as well as the accuracy and relevancy of the 
data in its strategic and business plans. 


¢ — Researched and interviewed staff from ten peer organizations in the region 
to determine best practices for organizations similar to MHC. 


¢ Researched eight historic organizations, two tourism groups, the federal 
Small Business Administration, and other experts in organizational strategic 
and business planning to determine best practices related to the management 


of MHC. 


What Is the Montana Heritage Commission? 


In 1997, the Legislature authorized the state’s purchase of the buildings and artifacts 
making up the attractions in Virginia and Nevada Cities for $6.5 million. The purchase 
included 148 buildings, 160 acres of land, and 1 million artifacts. The collection is 
currently estimated at an appraised value of nearly $50 million for insurance purposes 
by the Department of Administration’s Risk Management and Tort Defense Division. 
In order to manage the properties, the legislature established MHC in 1997, tasking it 
with hiring staff and running day-to-day operations at the sites. 


Per §22-3-1001, MCA, the purpose of the MHC “is to manage, on behalf of the 
state, properties that possess outstanding historical value, display exceptional qualities 
worth preserving, and are genuinely representative of the state’s culture and history.” 
The MHC is responsible for managing its properties in a manner that protects the 
properties and encourages economic stability. MHC properties include the towns of 
Virginia and Nevada Cities that lie approximately a mile apart along Alder Gulch in 
Madison County, the site of one of the richest gold strikes in the Rocky Mountains. 
MHC works to keep the towns looking much as they did in 1863, when the gold rush 
was occurring, as illustrated by these two photos (see Figure 1 on page 4) of a street in 
Virginia City. One is taken in 1864 and the other is present day. 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 1 
Virginia City at 300 Wallace Street 
In 1864 and Present Day 


x a 





Source: Montana Heritage Commission website. 





Virginia and Nevada Cities include displays depicting life in the 1860s, and MHC 
offers a variety of activities such as panning for gold or riding a tour train. Other venues 
such as historic lodging, live theater shows, gift and specialty shops, fine dining, and 
old-fashioned ice cream and candy shops are operated by concessionaires in buildings 
owned by MHC. Other stores and eateries are owned and operated by private owners. 
Some businesses are open year-round but most are open only in the summer months. 
MHC properties expanded in 2000 with the addition of Reeder’s Alley, including the 
Pioneer Cabin, in Helena. This location is also a mix of public and private ownership, 
with concessionaires running businesses out of the historic buildings. Examples 
include a restaurant, a barber shop, and non-profit offices. In addition, MHC rents out 
facilities in Reeder’s Alley for meetings and weddings. 


Montana Heritage Commission Membership 
Roles and Responsibilities 


A 14-member commission sets the direction of MHC, with staff responsible for 
carrying it out. The details are largely at the discretion of an executive director hired 
by MHC to implement work related to MHC priorities. The commission meets every 
three months and the executive director reports to them regarding the activities of 
MHC and the commission votes on various items, particularly those related to 
the budget and preservation activities. Section 22-3-1002, MCA, establishes the 
commission membership, which includes three state of Montana department directors, 
two appointments made by legislative leadership, and nine members of the public 
appointed by the governor. Membership requirements include: 


¢ One member must have extensive experience in managing facilities that cater 
to the needs of tourists. 


¢ One member must have experience in community planning. 

¢ One member must have experience in historic preservation. 

¢ ‘Two members must have broad experience in business. 

¢ One member must be a member of the tourism advisory council. 
¢ One member must be a Montana historian. 


¢ Two members must be from the public at large. 


MHC Staffing Levels 


MHC staff consists of five full-time employees working year-round, including one 
executive director, two preservation specialists, and two museum technicians. In 
addition, three additional full-time equivalent positions are used to hire up to ten 
seasonal staff to cover additional tasks occurring in the peak summer season. These 
tasks include staffing the Virginia City Welcome Center and the Nevada City 
Museum, selling tickets to attractions, operating the tour train traveling between 
Virginia and Nevada Cities, running the “River of Gold” gold-panning attraction, and 
selling merchandise. MHC has contractual agreements for other services. For example, 
MHC has contracted with the “Visit Helena” organization to book visits, answer 
visitor questions, and rent meeting and wedding spaces in Reeder’s Alley. Figure 2 (see 
page 6) illustrates MHC’s current organizational structure. 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 2 
Montana Heritage Commission Organization Chart 





Governor and Legislative Leaders 
Appoint Members of the Commission 


(45> Full Time All Year 
(__]}> Full Time Summer 


Season Only 


Montana Heritage Commission 





Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from commission records. 





Montana Heritage Commission Funding 


To pay for MHC activities such as restoring historic buildings, preserving artifacts, 
and offering new activities for visitors at the sites, revenue comes from state sources 
and donations. MHC raises some of its own funding also, through earned revenue, 
which is funding coming into the organization from sources like the sale of tour train 
tickets, rental of historic properties, and the sale of merchandise. In fiscal year 2016, 
MHC'’s budget included $1.5 million in funding coming from several different sources. 
Figure 3 (see page 7) identifies these sources with their total amount and percentage of 
all fiscal year 2016 revenue. 


As shown in Figure 3, the largest sources 
Figure 3 


Montana Heritage Commission Funding Sources . : 
Fiscal Year 2016 Tax (i.e. bed tax), long range planning 


of funding are the Lodging Facility Use 


funding, and the vehicle tax. Each 


Donations 


Miscellaneous $94,324 STIP revenue source is described below. 


$10,496 2% $31,694 
mS [ a SM eaer en * The bed tax has provided $400,000 in 


3% 


annual revenues since 1997, when MHC 
was organized. 


*Long range planning funding is 
legislatively-approved access to funds 
for specific projects. MHC uses it for 
repairing historic buildings. This funding 


must be approved each legislative session. 


*The vehicle tax comes from the 
Montana State Parks surcharge on 
license plates designated for MHC. 
MHC teceive 38 cents from every $6 
voluntary license fee for state parks. 


State law directs MHC to make its 
own money through revenue generating 
Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from activities at the historic sites, such as 

commission records. sales of panning for gold tickets and 
tour train ride tickets. This is included 
in the Virginia and Nevada Cities Visitor 
Services. 





¢ — Rental funding comes into MHC from contracts with various concessionaires, 
or renters, operating their businesses at historic properties owned by MHC. 


¢ Merchandise sold includes tee-shirts, coffee mugs, books, and other 
miscellaneous items. Items sold are usually MHC-branded. 


¢ MHC maintains a Short Term Investment Pool (STIP) account in order to 
cover cash-flow shortfalls during certain times of the year. Having access to 
this money is important to MHC because vehicle tax payments from the 
state do not always coincide to the increased payroll costs in the spring and 
early summer. 


¢ Donations covers private individuals and organizations contributing to the 


work of MHC. 


¢ Miscellaneous includes various smaller categories such as film fees and 
refunds for overpayment of utilities due to budget billing. 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Montana Heritage Commission Expenditures 
In fiscal year 2016, MHC’s budget expended a total of $1.2 million to support its 


operations as shown in Figure 4. Personal services is the largest expenditure for MHC 


followed by repair and maintenance of buildings. 


There are several different areas where 
MHC expends funds to support 
its activities. This includes personal 
services, repair and maintenance of 


Figure 4 


Montana Heritage Commission Expenditure Categories 





Fiscal Year 2016 


Contracted Services 


. . Rent 
property, and communications. Each Hs $30,882 


MHC expenditure category is described 


below: 


° 


[3% 


z 7 Utiliti 
Personal Services is staff $101,621 


salaries and benefits for five 
full-time employees working 
year round including one 
executive director, | two 
preservation specialists, and 
two museum _ technicians, 
as well as three additional 
full-time equivalent positions 
used to hire up to ten seasonal 
staff to cover additional tasks 
occurring in the peak summer 
season. 


Repairs and Maintenance is 
work to restore and maintain 
the historic —_ properties 


managed by MHC. 


Communications refers to 
media advertising designed to get visitors to come to MHC properties. 


Supplies and Materials refers to items spent on improving and upgrading of 
historic properties such as installing an upgraded refrigerator in a building 
used by a concessionaire selling food. 


Other Expenses include various smaller categories such as rental of propane 
tanks for heating some historic buildings. 


Utilities includes water, gas, and/or electricity for many of the historic 
buildings. 

Goods for Resale is the inventory purchased to sell at MHC properties such 
as coffee mugs and tee shirts. 


Contracted Services are expenditures relating to numerous relationships 
MHC has with organizations and individuals to assist in managing its 
properties. MHC has contracted with the “Visit Helena” organization to 


Goods For Resale 
$31,275 
3% 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from 
commission records. 





book visits, answer visitor questions, and rent meeting and wedding spaces 
in Reeder’s Alley. It also includes work done to improve and upgrade historic 
properties that provide a revenue stream to MHC. For example, this category 
would include the labor needed to install a new roof in a building used by a 
concessionaire offering lodging. 


The travel line item covers the cost of MHC quarterly meetings such as travel 
reimbursement for commission members and food at the meetings. 


Rent is the cost of renting land for the tour train operation. 


Sustainability, Protecting History, Economic 
Stability, and Planning Covered in Report 


The remainder of the report presents audit findings, conclusions, and recommendations 


to the commission to improve MHC’s operation and promote increased sustainability. 


° 


Chapter II covers audit work related to identifying best practices for 
organizations similar to MHC and the characteristics all sustainable historic 
organizations have in common. 


Chapter III explores the audit work done to determine if evidence exists 
related to MHC’s dual charge of protecting its historic properties while 
encouraging economic stability. 


Chapter I'V presents our audit work related to evaluating data and assumptions 
used in MHC strategic and business plans for relevancy and accuracy. 


10 


Chapter II —- Sustainability of Historic 
Organizations and Best Historic Site Practices 


Introduction 


This chapter addresses our objectives to determine best management practices for 
the Montana Heritage Commission (MHC) and quantify the public and private 
funding levels necessary for MHC to manage its properties. As part of this work, 
we reviewed similar historic preservation organizations in other states and national 
entities focused on the management of museum and tourism activities. We also 
reviewed the management practices of various national and local organizations . We 
conducted this work to compare the best management practices of these organizations 
to the operations of MHC and identify practices which could be adopted by MHC 
to improve its management. As part of our work, we also assessed the level of funding 
MHC has historically received to manage its responsibilities. We reviewed funding 
sources for MHC for the fiscal years 2012 through 2016. Overall, we concluded that 
MHC is similar to its peer organizations regarding management of historic properties 
and that MHC has already adopted many best practices. However, we also noted 
there is room for improvement in areas of commissioner engagement, collection of 
information, and increased planning. This review of peer organizations forms the basis 
of our findings in later chapters. As part of our review work, we found that there 
is no readily identifiable formula regarding the optimum public and private funding 
levels for similar state-managed historic organizations to manage their properties. 
Nonetheless, we determined MHC is currently managed using best practices and is 
on par with its peer groups regarding earned revenue. Ten characteristics established 
as being shared by all sustainable historic preservation organizations were compared 
to MHC’s characteristics, and overall we determined that MHC generally meets these 
characteristics. This chapter presents our work in these areas. 


Historic Organization Self-Sufficiency 


In addressing the second of our four objectives, quantifying the public and private 
funding levels necessary for MHC to manage its properties, audit work found no best 
practices or standards related to necessary funding levels, nor are there any standards 
related to the ideal mix of public and private funding for historic organizations. Over 
the course of audit work, the concept of self-sufficiency was routinely described as 
not realistic among MHC’s peer organizations unless there was a presence of a large 
benefactor or an on-going source of significant income. Our 2003 performance audit 
states, “In general, we found historic sites are not self-supporting.” A recent report 
released by a panel of historians and organizational professionals regarding the 
sustainability of historic organizations stated, “A historic organization that expects to 


CO NESS) 


11 


12 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


survive solely on admissions income, events, rentals, and donations will fail.” While 
self-sufficiency may have been the intention of the legislature when the state originally 
bought Virginia and Nevada Cities in 1997, current audit work shows it is not realistic 
to place that expectation on the organization. In 2015, the legislature changed the 
enabling statute to also reflect this idea. Until then, §22-3-1001, MCA, stated MHC 
should manage its properties, “...in a manner that protects the properties and results in 
economic independence.” The final phrase was changed in the 2015 Legislative Session 
and now reads, “encourages economic stability.” 


MHC’s Earned Revenue Aligns With Peer Groups 


Nationally, state parks and museums typically cover only 30 percent of their 
expenditures with earned revenues, which means revenue earned by the organization’s 
activities, such as selling merchandise and tickets to attractions. Audit work shows that 
MHC'’s earned revenue is comparable to peer organizations. MHC earned revenue 
comes from a combination of the following four items: 


¢ Virginia and Nevada Cities visitor services 
¢ Merchandise sold 
¢ Rentals 


¢ Donations 


MHC’s earned revenue increased from $335,442 in fiscal year 2012 to $515,212 in 
fiscal year 2016. We determined that in fiscal year 2012, MHC earned revenue as a 
percentage of expenditures was 29 percent, and earned revenue has consistently been 
over 30 percent since fiscal year 2013. Figure 5 (see page 13) illustrates MHC annual 
earned revenue and earned revenue as a percentage of expenditures since fiscal year 
2012. 


$1,600,000 


$1,400,000 


$1,200,000 


$1,000,000 


$800,000 


$600,000 


$400,000 


$200,000 


so 


Figure 5 
Earned Revenue Expressed as Percentage of Expenditures 
Fiscal Years 2012 Through 2016 





43% 
41% 
39% 


37% 
lm Total Earned Revenue 


35% (left axis) 
‘Oo 


ll Total Expenditures 
33% (left axis) 


===» Earned Revenue as 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
(right axis) 


31% 


29% 


27% 


25% 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from commission records. 





Characteristics of Sustainable Historic Organizations 


What level of private and public funding is necessary for MHC to manage its 
properties? In the absence of standards specifically related to funding levels, this 
is not possible to answer. However, a related question can be answered, “Is MHC 
sustainable?” In October 2015, a panel of historians and organizational professionals 
released a study on the characteristics of sustainable historic organizations. ‘The study 
defined “a sustainable organization” as one that, “through beneficial circumstances 
and good professional practices, generates enough financial and community support 
to guarantee its continued existence.” Ten characteristics identified by the study as 
generally existing in all sustainable historic organizations were compared to MHC’s 
characteristics. 


‘This comparison allowed us to determine if MHC meets the ten characteristics. These 
characteristics are listed below along with our assessment of MHC’s possession of 
them. Our audit work included observing staff interacting with visitors to the sites, 
commission quarterly meetings, and staff collaborating with concessionaires. Based 
on these observations, we concluded MHC is thoroughly engaged with its community 


P05 | 


13 


14 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 





as well as having an emphasis on collaboration. After analyzing MHC’s financial 
documents and interviewing staff and commissioners, we determined that it does have 
a variety of funding sources, including government resources, and good stewards of its 
resources. The advertising materials distributed by MHC we reviewed indicate it is a 
member of the digital age with numerous electronic ways to enhance visitors’ experiences 
at the historic sites. MHC has not over-expanded its physical resources; there has been 
one large new construction project that has been completed, the McFarland Curatorial 
Center, which was necessary to care appropriately for the historical artifacts. MHC 
has benefited from strong leadership and mostly successful transitions. Audit work of 
reviewing close to 20 years of meeting notes revealed this. MHC does govern largely 
according to best practices with strategic and business planning, but we found that 
improvements could be made in these areas. Audit work found that MHC possesses all 
ten characteristics of sustainable historic organizations; however, as shown specifically 
in the below table, some aspects of its governance, and strategic and business planning 
processes should be strengthened. 


Table 1 


MHC Characteristics Compared to Characteristics of 
Sustainable Historic Organizations 











Does MHC have this 


Identified Characteristic of Sustainable Historic Organizations Gharacienctic? 





Variety of funding sources, including some government Yes 





Good steward of its resources Yes 





Thoroughly engaged with their community Yes 





Governance according to best practice Yes; Could be Improved 





Emphasis on collaboration Yes 





Careful with over-expanding physical resources Yes 





Member of the digital age Yes 





Strong leadership with successful transitions Yes 





Engages in strategic planning Yes; Could be Improved 














Operates from a business plan Yes; Could be Improved 





Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 





Best Practices for Managing Historic Properties 


Managers of government programs are increasingly called upon to use limited resources 
in the most efficient and effective way possible when implementing programs. Whether 
developed at the federal level, or adopted and instituted by states, best practices and 
standards for state entities typically focus on continually seeking ways to improve 


accountability in achieving an entity’s mission through strategic planning and other 
practices. There are numerous sources for this kind of information that can be applied 
when reviewing MHC’s current and future plans. 


One useful approach is determining what has worked in similar organizations. 
Consequently, as part of audit work, we reviewed peer organizations from other states 
to determine how MHC practices aligned with what similar historic organizations 
were doing. We focused our research on states in the western region as well as states 
with smaller populations, and on organizations with historic buildings and artifacts 
comparable to MHC properties. The following table represents examples of the peer 


organizations we reviewed as part of our work. 


Table 2 
Sample of Peer Organizations Researched 





Name Location Organization Type 





Champoeg Oregon State Park 
Deadwood South Dakota City 








Fort Totten North Dakota State Historic Site 





Frontier Homestead Museum Utah State Park 





Old San Diego California State Park 





Rock Creek Station Nebraska State Historic Park 





Theodore Roosevelt Medora Foundation North Dakota Private Local Non-Profit 





This is the Place Heritage Park Utah Private Local Non-Profit 





Walla Walla Museum Washington City Park 

















Willa Cather Historic Site Nebraska Private Local Non-Profit 





Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 





Our audit work also included comparing MHC’s practices to guidance about 
organizational best practices from various related Montana organizations, national 
groups, state government, and the federal government. Table 3 (see page 16) includes 
examples of the organizations whose guidance we reviewed as part of our work. 


15 


16 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Table 3 
Sample of Organizational Guidance Reviewed 








Name Location Organization Type 





American Alliance of Museums Washington, DC National Non-Profit 





Government Accountability Office Washington, DC Federal Government 





Montana Department of Administration Montana State Government 





Montana Nonprofit Association Montana State Non-Profit 





National Heritage Areas (NHAs) program Washington, DC Federal Government 

















Small Business Administration Washington, DC Federal Government 








Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division. 


Best Practices of Organizations Managing Historic Sites 


Relevant best practices information guidance from the above groups is summarized 


and combined into five best practices that can provide direction for MHC. 


1. 


Commissioner Engagement: Best practices indicate that an oversight 
body (board of directors or commission) should clearly understand its 
responsibilities and receive information to fulfill those responsibilities. Its role 
in overseeing the strategic direction of the organization includes scrutinizing, 
and possibly presenting alternative views to, management decisions. 


Communication and Coordination: Organizations should avoid controls 
that are ad hoc, undocumented, and highly dependent on the skills, 
competence, and ethical values of one individual. This can be an especially 
troubling prospect for small organizations like MHC. Out of necessity, the 
executive director wields significant decision-making control, which in turn 
increases the need for the commission to be as fully engaged as possible, so 
commissioners can be certain their oversight is working. 


Identify a Vision: Organizations should periodically identify and document 
their foundational elements such as vision/mission statements in a strategic 
plan that includes clear and measurable goals, and timelines for achieving 
these goals. 


Gather Data: Organizations should consistently gather demographic 
data regarding visitor activity in order to determine if current efforts are 
succeeding and the make-up of future plans. 


Periodic Reviews: An organization’s management is responsible for 
establishing, maintaining, and periodically reviewing the status of controls 
designed to ensure the organization reaches its goals. As no single set of 
safeguards is universally applicable, the exact plan depends-in part-on the 
executive director’s judgment of cost versus benefit of any potential safeguard 
for the organization. 


17 


Audit work found MHC is implementing many best practices, such as strategic 
and business planning and limited data collection. There are some areas MHC 
could improve, specifically commissioner engagement, information collection, and 
organizational planning processes. ‘These areas of improvement form the basis of our 
audit findings discussed in later chapters. 


SS 
ConcLusion 


While there is not an industry standard which quantifies a ratio of public 
versus private funding for the management of publicly-owned historic sites, 
MHC’s earned revenue aligns with peer organizations and MHC possesses 
many characteristics of a sustainable organization. MHC is being managed 
with best practices and in a manner in that will ensure the preservation of the 
historic sites for which it is responsible. 


18 


Chapter III - Safeguarding Historic Properties 
and Fostering Economic Stability 


Introduction 


This chapter addresses our third objective, to determine whether the Montana Heritage 
Commission (MHC) is managing its properties in a manner that both protects the 
properties and encourages economic stability. Since its inception MHC has experienced 
competing priorities. State law requires MHC to manage its properties in a manner 
that protects the properties and encourages economic stability. To determine if MHC 
is doing this, our audit work reviewed various MHC activities for evidence regarding 
the organization’s priorities. This included reviewing nearly two decades of meeting 
notes, as well as five years of financial information, staff organizational structure, and 
current governance documents. Audit work found evidence of ongoing discussion 
and action of both preservation and economic enterprises. Throughout the almost 
20 years of meeting notes, the discussion of both preservation and revenue generating 
opportunities took place at every meeting in some form. Our work indicates that 
MHC has taken many steps to act as a responsible steward for the historic properties 
for which it is responsible; however, we identified the need for MHC to continue in 
this vein and strengthen commissioner engagement. This chapter discusses this issue 
further and includes a recommendation to increase training for, and engage more fully, 


with commissioners. 


MHC Funding Trends Include Static Bed Tax 
Revenue and Increasing Earned Revenue 


Our audit work included looking for indications of MHC’s priorities by analyzing 
MHC’s funding for the past five years. While reviewing this financial information, we 
observed trends such as static lodging facility use tax funding and increasing earned 


revenues. 


19 


20 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 6 
Montana Heritage Commission Funding Trends 
Fiscal Years 2012 Through 2016 





$600,000 


$500,000 


$400,000 
$300,000 | 
$200,000 
$100,000 | 
! : | 


Earned Revenue Lodging Facility Vehicle Tax Long Range Various 
Use Tax Funding 


mFY 2012 mFY2013 mFY2014 mFY2015 mFY 2016 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from the commission. 


The above figure illustrates trends in MHC’s funding for fiscal years 2012 through 
2016. 


Earned Revenue is made up of four categories taken together, Virginia and Nevada 
Cities (VC/NC) Visitor Services, Rentals, Merchandise Sold, and Donations. All have 
increased since 2012. The VC/NC Visitor Services is up largely because MHC has 
increased its offerings, such as taking on the operation of the gold-mining activity, 
and there are increasing numbers of visitors. MHC has been identified as the most 
visited state-owned attraction by the Office of Tourism in DOC since 2012, with 
currently more than 525,000 individuals visiting annually. This increase in visitors to 
the sites accounts for increases in merchandise sold and donations as well. Interviews 
with commission members and staff indicate that they believe this upward trend will 
continue as MHC plans to pull some of the large number of visitors in the Yellowstone 
area to Virginia and Nevada Cities. Audit work found that all concessionaires (renters) 
have signed contracts and are generally timely in paying their rent, which was not the 
case previously, leading to an upward trend in rentals. All spaces have been rented 
and contracts have been signed for a number of years into the future. Interviews with 


concessionaires indicate they are pleased with their interactions with MHC and the 
improvements that have been made in lodging and restaurant venues. In addition, 
new revenue is coming from Reeder’s Alley being rented for meetings and weddings, 
indicating a continued upward trend can be expected. 


Lodging Facility Use Tax (ie. bed tax) was the largest single funding source every 
year reviewed, and has remained static. 


Vehicle Tax is the second largest single category in four of the five years reviewed, and 
has increased slightly. Vehicle tax revenue comes from 38 cents of every Montana State 
Parks $6.00 surcharge on light vehicle license plates. 


Long Range Planning Funding was the third largest funding category in 2016. 
MHC also received long range planning funding in 2012. 


The Various category generally includes items like grants, land and property sales, and 
budget billing refunds for utility payments. In both 2014 and 2015, MHC received 
large grants that make this category noticeably larger in those years compared to other 
years. 


MHC Expenditures Balance Historic 
Preservation and Economic Stability 


Our audit work included looking for indications of MHC’s priorities by analyzing 
MHC'’s expenditures for the past five years. While reviewing this financial information, 
we observed trends in expenditures also; our work found that during the five-year 
period reviewed, similar total amounts were paid for repairing historic buildings and 
upkeep of concessionaire sites. 


21 


22 








Montana Legislative Audit Division 


Figure 7 
Montana Heritage Commission Expenditure Trends 
Fiscal Years 2012 Through 2016 





$600,000 


$500,000 
$400,000 
$300,000 
$200,000 


Personal Services Repairs & Maintenance Contracted Services Other 


@FY 2012 mFY2013 mFY2014 mFY2015 mFY 2016 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from the commission. 


Personal Services is the largest expenditure category across all years. 


Repairs and Maintenance is generally work to repair and maintain the historic 
properties that do not usually provide a direct revenue source but are valued for their 
historic value. This need for work on historic buildings is on-going, and much of this 
activity is based on the availability of funding such as long range planning or private 
grants. During the five year period reviewed, MHC spent almost $620,000 total on 
repairs and maintenance. 


Contracted Services is largely for renovation and upkeep of historic sites, which MHC 
owns and rents to concessionaires, and provides revenue-streams for the organization. 
Examples include lodging, restaurants and shops. This category decreases in fiscal year 
2016 because some large projects have been completed. In fiscal years 2012 through 
2016, MHC spent close to a total of $600,000 on contracted services. After a large 
renovation, MHC usually determines that an effort to recoup some of the investment 
through higher rental rates for the concessionaires is appropriate, although this not 
strictly adhered to. 


The Other category in the figure includes typical business needs such as 
communications, travel, utilities, rent, and equipment. 


MHC staffing also indicates a commitment to both aspects of the organization’s 
responsibility. The current structure includes five full-time all-year staff, an executive 
director who manages MHC operations, two preservation specialists who perform 
restoration work on historic buildings, and two museum technicians who work with 
artifacts. During the non-peak season from October through April, staff generally 
work on preservation and repair activities of the buildings and artifacts. During the 
organization’s busy season from May through September, the organization’s focus is 
making sure guests have a positive experience. The museum technicians are in charge of 
managing the summer staff and keeping exhibits in good repair and visually appealing 
for visitors. There are up to ten 90-day seasonal employees added in the peak summer 
season to cover additional tasks such as staffing the Virginia City Welcome Center and 
the Nevada City Museum, selling tickets to attractions, operating a tour train, running 
the “River of Gold” gold-panning attraction, and selling merchandise. Observations 
of staff during the summer months and interviews with staff about their main duties, 
indicate a focus for staff on both preservation and economic stability. MHC’s strategic 
plan also includes these priorities: preserve, sustain, promote, experience, partner, 
and manage. These priorities include both preservation and economic sustainability 
aspects. 


MHC Has Improved Its Stewardship of Resources 


In 2011, under previous management, MHC faced an in-house reporting error 
resulting in a $500,000 overstatement of MHC’s cash reserves. In addition, federal 
grant money was diminishing. Interviews with commissioners indicated that due to 
this financial situation, the commission had to focus on its organization's priorities 
in a way that had not been previously required. It established its highest priorities, 
and funded only those. MHC eliminated and combined positions to create two new 
positions that express those priorities: a cultural resource manager with interpretation, 
collections, and archeology tasks, and a business development manager with tasks 
related to developing a business model and striving for greater economic stability. 


Audit work found that one of the fundamental causes of the $500,000 overstatement 
of MHC’s cash reserves was that financial statements were not reconciled by MHC 
staff with the state’s accounting records. When the commission became aware of 
these issues, it set out to improve their organization’s controls. For example, it received 
additional guidance from the Department of Commerce (DOC) prohibiting dupli- 
cative accounting systems to the state accounting system to ensure the staff and 
commission were using accurate figures. It also developed a detailed job description for 
the business development manager, which evolved into the current executive director 
position, specifically stating what the person filling the position was expected to do, 


including financial reporting. Commissioner interviews indicated members were 


CO SSE) 


23 


24 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


concerned about this situation and wanted to ensure this did not happen again. We 
interviewed DOC accounting staff who indicated MHC has resolved the problem and 
communicates frequently with the DOC accounting staff. Also, the commission has 
increased its oversight of the executive director’s role in financial reporting. In addition 
to the commission’s quarterly meetings, the commission chairperson meets frequently 
with the executive director to discuss various items, including the current financial 
status of the organization. 


In fiscal years 2012-2016, MHC was generally successful in keeping costs within 
the funding constraints. This figure indicates total MHC funding and total MHC 
expenditures on the final day of each fiscal year reviewed. In every year but 2014, 
funding exceeds expenditures. MHC staff report that this difference in 2014 was likely 
due to timing. June usually has a lower attendance rate compared to the rest of the 
summer months. The summer influx of funding to MHC from visitors staying in 
MHC accommodations, buying tickets for train rides, and buying merchandise may 
not have occurred until after June 30 and were recorded in the 2015 fiscal year. 


Figure 8 
Funding and Expenditures 
Fiscal Years 2012 Through 2016 





FY 2016 $1,249,025 


$1,611,634 


$1,429,457 


FY 2015 
$1,469,785 


$1,281,341 


FY 2014 
$1,227,883 


$1,079,797 


FY 2013 
$1,086,634 


$1,158,365 


FY 2012 
$1,184,178 


Total Expenditures Total Funding 


Source: Compiled by the Legislative Audit Division from commission records. 





a 
CoNcLUSION 


MHC manages its historic properties in a manner that both protects the 
properties and encourages economic stability as required by law, and is a 
good steward of its resources by increasing earned revenues and keeping 
expenditures below revenues, increasing the likelihood that state revenue 
for MHC will go toward their mandated activities and be used efficiently and 
effectively. 


More Commissioner Engagement Needed 


While we found that MHC presently manages its historic properties in a manner that 
both protects the properties and encourages economic stability, we identified a need 
for the MHC to increase commissioner engagement. Additional commission oversight 
of staff was one of the MHC’s responses to the organization’s need to re-design its 
operations described above. Our audit work found work is still needed in this area. 
One of the five best practices we identified related to oversight and the importance 
of the oversight body, such as the commission members, to clearly understand their 
responsibilities and receive information to fulfill those responsibilities. Their role in 
overseeing the strategic direction of the organization includes scrutinizing, and possibly 
presenting alternate views to, management decisions. Our audit work found that some 
commissioners are still unsure about what role they play in managing MHC activities 
and there is confusion regarding what is required of commissioners. 


Active Oversight Requires Informed Commissioners 


There are a variety of sources stressing the importance of having informed individuals 
performing oversight functions for organizations. The American Alliance of Museums 
has a Code of Ethics, which includes: “Museum governance is a public trust. The 
governing authority protects and enhances the museum’s collections and programs 
and its physical, human and financial resources. ‘Thus, the governing authority ensures 
that policies are articulated and prudent oversight is practiced. ‘The governing authority 
also ensures all those who work for or on behalf of a museum understand and support 
its mission and public trust responsibilities.” One of MHC’s peer organizations has an 
oversight body of 28 individuals. Interviews with this organization's staff found this 
organization’s oversight body has a clear understanding of its oversight responsibilities. 
‘The approaches used at this organization includes the executive director meeting with 
every new board member to discuss how the organization works and providing new 
board members with governance materials such as by-laws, strategic plan, and business 
plan related to the organization. Expectations that must be met are also placed on 
board members or the board member will be prohibited from being reappointed. These 
expectations include attending all three of the group’s annual meetings during the 


CO SSE 


25 


26 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


board member’s three-year term, participation in monthly board committee activities, 
and other fundraising-related requirements. A best practice identified in audit work 
related to this issue is that organizations should avoid policies and procedures that are 
ad hoc, undocumented, and highly dependent on the skills, competence, and ethical 
values of an individual. Also, the best practices suggest developing board member job 
descriptions can be helpful in communicating those areas for which each board member 
is responsible. These descriptions often include the time commitment required and 
what tasks are required such as staff evaluation and voting on the organization’s budget. 
MHC has detailed job descriptions for management staff but no job descriptions for 


commissioners. 


Oversight Diminished by Limited 
Understanding of Commissioner Roles 


When commissioners are unclear of their role in overseeing the activities of MHC, they 
are unable to scrutinize and question management's decisions, which is the duty of an 
oversight body. It is not possible for a commissioner with an incomplete understanding 
of his or her role to present alternative views. Consequently, MHC misses out on the 
commissioner’s expertise and impartial evaluation of MHC and its operations. This 
results in diminished oversight by commission members. Just as past MHC staff needed 
clearer direction to understand their role precisely regarding financial duties after the 
2011 reorganization, some commission members need clearer direction regarding 
their responsibilities. When all commissioners understand their oversight role more 
clearly, MHC as a whole will be in a better position to question decisions of MHC 
management (i.e. executive director) regarding allocation of resources, direction of 
business plans, and assessments regarding the achievement of the organization’s goals. 
More informed commissioners will provide better oversight overall, and diminish the 
tisk of over-dependence on staff as happened in 2011. 


MHC Needs to Provide New Commissioners 
With Specific Information 


Over the course of our audit work, commissioners and MHC staff interviewed indicate 
that some of the reasons commissioners may not know their role as well as they should is 
because of lack of information given to them when they came on as new commissioners, 
including training on how to best provide governance for MHC properties. MHC has 
made attempts to set up commissioner training regarding general duties of a board of 
directors and more specific topics related to MHC but none have come to fruition, the 
most recent being canceled because of anticipated low commissioner turnout. When 
asked why this was the case, a commissioner responded that the most recent training 
was proposed to occur at a different time than the regular quarterly commission 
meeting and this likely had a negative effect on possible attendance. MHC does provide 


some materials for new commissioners but in an ad hoc manner and it is not clear that 
every commissioner has received all the basic governance documents such as by-laws 
and strategic and business plans. In addition, there is no document explaining precisely 
what is expected of commissioners, such as a MHC Commissioner job description. 
Without clear guidance and expectations for commission duties and responsibilities, 
all commissioners cannot be as fully engaged as they should be. MHC needs to add 
organizational safeguards to assure the commission is providing active and relevant 
oversight regarding MHC’s strategic direction. 


As required by law, MHC manages its historic properties in a manner that both protects 
the properties and encourages economic stability. Earned revenues are increasing and 
expenditures do not exceed funding, but the organization’s ability to continue in this 
positive manner is at risk without stronger institutional capacities such as a completely 
engaged commission. 


Ms 


RECOMMENDATION #1 


We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission improve commission 
engagement by: 


A. Developing a commissioner’s job description. 


B. Developing a specific packet of governance materials for distribution to 
each new commissioner, such as Montana Heritage Commission most 
recent by-laws, strategic plan, business plan, and commissioner’s job 
description. 


C. Developing and implementing a training plan for all commission 
members. 


TO 


27 


28 


Chapter IV — Improving Montana 
Heritage Commission Strategic and 
Business Planning Processes 


Introduction 


This chapter addresses our objective to evaluate data and assumptions used in Montana 
Heritage Commission (MHC) strategic and business plans for relevancy and accuracy. 
In order to conduct this work, we analyzed five years of MHC financial information 
from fiscal years 2012 through 2016. We reviewed MHC’s current strategic plan written 
in 2013 and finalized in 2016. We also reviewed MHC’s 2013 and 2016 business plans, 
and compared financial information obtained from MHC with financial information 
regarding MHC activities within Montana’s state accounting system. While our work 
found the data used by MHC to manage its properties are accurate and relevant, 
we also identified a need for MHC to obtain additional information regarding the 
underlying assumptions and estimated timelines for project completion of its business 
plans, as well as information related to resources needed and in both its strategic and 
business planning processes. ‘This chapter discusses these issues further and makes two 
recommendations, one related to improving MHC’s information-gathering processes 
and another related to enhancing MHC’s planning processes. 


MHC Business Plan Assumptions Needed 
to Understand Complete Picture 


As part of our work, we noted that while MHC actively engages in business planning, 
it does not identify the assumptions used in its business plans, so it is not possible to 
determine if it is using accurate and relevant assumptions. When MHC Commissioners 
do not receive information about assumptions in the organization’s business plan, 
they are not assured that they are assessing the success of items in the plan. There 
are potential changes in the local, state, and national economies, and other factors 
that could affect the number of visitors at their properties. Business plan assumptions 
are based on what the organization thinks is going to occur with forces outside the 
control of the organization. Market trends is an example. Our audit work found MHC 
anticipates its general attendance numbers in Virginia and Nevada Cities is on an 
upward trend, and will be for a few years. There are numerous reasons for this. MHC 
believes there is a largely untapped market of visitors for Virginia and Nevada Cities in 
the large number of tourists coming to the West Yellowstone area. Commissioners also 
anticipate that improvements to the properties and increased attractions, along with 
more targeted marketing, will continue to drive their numbers up. This assumption 
is important to know when assessing the success of new attractions. The assumption 
that the pool of possible attendees at a new attraction is anticipated to be larger than 


CO SS 


29 


30 


Montana Legislative Audit Division 





last year should be included in the business plan. Breaking down and identifying the 
assumptions like this in business planning helps track accurate results. An incorrect 
assumption, rather than a flaw with a plan or its execution, may be the reason a project 
does not develop into the revenue stream it is anticipated to be. Assumptions used in 
putting together the projects in a business plan should be in the plan. If management 
does not believe there will be any fluctuations large enough to affect the business plan, 
that should be noted also. There is language in MHC’s plans regarding anticipated 
revenue, potential number of visitors paying a certain attendance fee and other items, 
but staff is unable to produce the numbers and underlying supporting documentation 
for these projects. 


Tactical Planning for Properties Possible 
With More MHC Visitor Data 


Best practices reviewed in our audit work indicate that some of the most important 
information management can have in a tourism endeavor is the number of visitors, 
including demographic information about those visitors, when they visited a site, 
and what they most enjoyed. States generally gather information about tourists on a 
statewide basis. They compile data about trips to the state, where visitors come from, 
whether or not they have been to the state before, and whether they are overnight 
visitors. The University of Montana’s Institute for Tourism and Recreation Research 
does this kind of work in Montana. Our audit work identified the need for MHC to 
gather demographic data and visitor activity in order to determine if current efforts 
are succeeding and what future efforts should look like. Demographic information 
collected would include things like age, residence, size of group, where else traveling, 
source of information regarding the sites, if they had visited the sites previously, and 
which attractions they enjoyed the most. Information regarding the popularity of 
MHC properties would increase MHC’s ability to plan in a more tactical manner. In 
addition, this data is necessary to determine if previous decisions made about where 
to put resources have been correct or if they need to be adjusted. MHC staff indicated 
that they do informally collect some data regarding how visitors hear about the sites 
but nothing systematic. For example, staff at the Virginia City Visitor Center ask 
visitors how they heard about Virginia and Nevada Cities and then they write the 
answers down on a piece of paper, which is turned in to the executive director. This 
information is used to determine adjustments to marketing efforts. If radio ads are 
running, but very few respondents indicate they heard about Virginia City on the 
radio, the executive director will likely pull back on radio ads. In addition, they collect 
data regarding how many visitors come to Virginia City based on a car count and a 
formula used by the Montana Department of Transportation. 


MHC Needs to Prioritize Expanded Data Gathering 


A lack of management information is causing MHC to be unsure of which 
properties are the most/least popular with visitors and makes it difficult for MHC 
to determine where its resources should go in the future. With accurate, numerical 
hard data regarding MHC activities, MHC will increase its ability to be transparent 
and accountable related to the public funds for which it is responsible. MHC staff 
acknowledged data regarding visitors and which properties and attractions are the 
most popular is not currently collected in a deliberate way and would be helpful to 
the organization. When asked why this kind of information is not gathered, staff said 
that especially during the summer, with increased visitor traffic, all staff members are 
focused on the day-to-day tasks of running the historic sites. Consequently, gathering 
information for planning purposes has not been a priority. Audit work highlighted 
the need to identify and document assumptions in business plan in order to better 
track accurate results. Our audit work also identified the need for MHC to gather 
demographic data regarding visitors and their activity in order to determine the success 
of current efforts and plan for future efforts. Information regarding the popularity of 
MHC properties would increase MHC’s ability to plan in a more tactical manner. At 
present, MHC does not systemically collect nor use data for planning purposes. 


re 


RECOMMENDATION #2 





We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission expand its information 
collection practice to include: 


A. — Identifying and documenting assumptions and other background data 
used to develop business plans, and 


Gathering demographic and other detailed data regarding visitors, their 
activities at the historic properties, and using this data for future resource 
allocation planning. 


Improving MHC’s Strategic and 
Business Planning Processes 


In addition to the information needs discussed above, MHC could more fully use 
its strategic and business planning processes in other ways. Organizations need to be 
especially purposeful about their planning activities. Generally, a business plan covers 
a shorter period of time and specific project ideas. MHC generally puts one out every 
three years. In contrast, a strategic plan is usually designed for a five-year period and 
includes more global concepts, such as mission and vision, as well as some details on 
specific projects. Organizational planning should assess the organization’s potential, its 


Pn 1GP-05 | 


31 


32 





Montana Legislative Audit Division 


resources, and the context of its community. Best practices we reviewed as part of our 
work indicate that MHC should periodically identify and document its foundational 
elements such as its vision/theme, mission, clear measurable goals, timelines, objectives, 
policies, and procedures. This should be done in a formal strategic plan. Audit work 
found that MHC could strengthen its organizational planning processes to be more 
purposeful, useful, and to better document its intentions and accomplishments. 


MHC Business Plan Should Answer 
Timeline and Resource Questions 


Business planning is a way of answering, “Where are we going?” or “What are we 
trying to achieve?” Our audit work found that the 2013 and 2016 MHC business 
plans do answer those questions. Business plans should also answer, “Who will get 
us there, by when, and how much money and other resources will it take?” MHC 
business plans reviewed do not answer these last questions. For example, this is an 
excerpt from the 2016 Business Plan: 
The school tours program started on 1 May 2013 and will continue this year 
through June 15. We estimate that the program will bring in $50,000 in revenue 
annually, as we estimate that 5,000 students at an admission cost of $10 each 
will be visiting Virginia/Nevada Cities through the program this year. This 


contribution is significant to MHC not only because of the revenue but because 
MHC has little visitor revenue in the May to mid-June time period otherwise. 


This instance does address “Where is MHC going and what are they trying to achieve.” 
For example, the business plan sets a goal of bringing in $50,000 in annual earned 
revenue for MHC. However, this business plan does not address, “Who will get us 
there, by when, and for how much money;” it should include what resources, including 
staff time, MHC will need to expend to successfully accommodate the 5,000 attendees. 
Business plans should include a timeline for completion, an evaluation of resources 
needed, and an assessment of staff time required for each proposed project. 


Contextual Information Needed in Planning for 
Successful Transitions and Measuring Success Later 


There is language in the MHC business plans regarding anticipated revenue, potential 
number of visitors paying a certain attendance fee and other items, but staff is unable to 
generate the numbers and supporting documentation regarding the context behind the 
statements regarding these projects. This is because they do not keep readily accessible 
information related to the proposals. Consequently, this reduces the usefulness of 
MHC'’s business plans. In addition, MHC’s business plans have no timelines for 
completion, no clear staff assignments, and no estimation of resources needed for each 
projects. This information is needed to provide a more complete picture for MHC 


and for its ability to track accomplishments and the implementation of the business 
plan more closely and accurately. Consideration of resource use in business plans is 
also necessary to measure if the plan has been implemented in a manner that matches 
the expectations of MHC. Currently, MHC organizational planning processes do not 
include an estimation of resources needed to complete projects or a formal mechanism 
to report the expenditure of those resources. 


MHC Strategic Plan Should Answer Resource 
and Strategic Analysis Questions 


Strategic planning is an organizational management activity used to set priorities, 
ensure that stakeholders are working toward common goals, and adjust an 
organization’s direction in response to a changing environment. As part of our review 
of organizational best practices, we determined that, at a minimum, a strategic plan 


should include the following: 
¢ A mission statement 
¢ An outline of goals, objectives, and activities 
¢ An assessment of current resources 


¢ Strategic analysis 


MHC’s strategic plan has a mission statement, strategic priorities, objectives, and 
proposed strategies, but there is no assessment of current resources, nor is there strategic 
analysis. Strategic analysis is the step in the planning process in which an organization 
analyzes its goals, objectives, and activities and then determines how to allocate its 
resources among them. It is strategic because the goal is to allocate resources to those 
activities that will most help the organization meet its mission. The result of strategic 
analysis is a concrete determination of what quantity of the organization’s resources, 
such as staff time and funding, will be allocated to each activity identified in the plan. 
MHC’ strategic plan needs a way to tie practical ideas about how to make the best use 
of MHC’s resources to achieve its objectives, goals, and mission. The inclusion of this 
kind of information would make the strategic planning process a more useful tool for 
MHC and increase the Commission’s oversight of MHC operations. Consideration 
of resources used in strategic plans is necessary to measure if the plan has been 
implemented in a manner that matches the expectations of MHC. Lastly, with precise 
data regarding MHC activities and expectations in its strategic and business plans, 
MHC will increase its ability to be transparent and accountable with the public funds 
for which it is responsible by increasing its oversight capabilities. 


33 


34 | Montana Legislative Audit Division Legislative Audit Division 


MHC Needs to Strengthen Strategic and Business Planning 


MHC staff acknowledged more information such as timelines and assessment of 
resources in the strategic plan and business plan could be helpful. When asked why these 
items were not included, staff said all staff members are busy focused on the day-to-day 
tasks of running the organization. Consequently, some aspects of strategic and business 
planning have not been a priority. MHC staff does informally report on the progress 
of various projects mentioned in planning documents but it is not in an organized 
way. MHC members and staff already understand the importance of fundamental 
organizational ideas such as business and strategic planning but need to engage in 
more direct communication regarding MHC’s business and strategic planning process 
and goals. Best practices from our audit work stress that an organization’s management 
is responsible for establishing, maintaining, and periodically reviewing the status of 
safeguards designed to ensure the organization reaches its goals. As no single set of 
safeguards is universally applicable, the exact plan depends, in part, on the MHC 
executive director’s judgment of cost versus benefit of any potential new process for 
the organization. It is important to keep this in mind with an organization as small as 
MHC. New, large, and complicated strategic and business planning processes would 
not benefit MHC. Rather, additional work to expand its current processes to include 
additional elements will allow the organization to be more efficient and effective in 
managing the historic properties in Virginia and, Nevada Cities, and Reeder’s Alley. 


RECOMMENDATION #3 


We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission strengthen its 
organizational planning processes by expanding its: 


A. Business plans to include a timeline for completion, an evaluation of 
resources needed, and an assessment of staff time required for each 
proposed project. 


w 


Strategic plans to include an assessment of current resources, and a 
strategic analysis indicating how those resources will be distributed 
among activities identified in the plan. 


rr 


INAKO) NIA N= 
GON IVISNION 


GTOVIVINSION I ENDO K= 





A-1 








April 12° 2017 RECEIVED 


April 13, 2017 


Mr. Angus Maciver LEGISLATIVE AUDIT DIV. 


Legislative Auditor 

Office of the Legislative Auditor 
State Capital, Room 160 
Helena, MT 59620-1705 


Dear Mr. Maciver, 

The Montana Heritage Commission has reviewed the legislative audit (16P-05) completed by the 
Legislative Audit Division. Our responses and corrective action plans for each recommendation are 
provided below. 

Recommendation #1: 


We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission improve Commission engagement by: 


A. Developing a commissioner’s job description 


B. Developing a specific packet of governance materials for distribution to each new commissioner, 


such as Montana Heritage Commission’s most recent by-laws, strategic plan, business plan, and 
commissioner’s job description 
C. Developing and implementing a training plan for all commission members. 


Response: Concur 


In process of completing Montana Heritage Commission’s job description with anticipated completion 
date of December 7* 2017. We delivered Commissioner packets with information of governance 
materials at the March 9"* commissioner meeting. (MHC Commissioner Job Description is still needed in 
packet when completed). Training for the Montana Heritage Commissioner’ s is scheduled for the 
September and December meetings of 2017. The need for ongoing training will be necessary with 14 
members terms rotating out every two-three years. 


Recommendation #2 


We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission expand its information collection practice to 
include: 
A. Identifying and documenting assumptions and other background data used to develop business 
plans. 
B. Gathering demographic and other detailed data regarding visitors, their activities at the historic 
properties, and using this data for future allocation planning. 


Response: Concur 


In 2016 from Memorial Day to Labor Day we had 562,818 tourists came to Virginia City and Nevada City 
making us the number one state-owned tourist destination for the 5" consecutive year. We have also 
completed an independent Economic impact study completed by the Rocky Mountain Economic 
Development District. The findings concluded that based on our tourist counts we had a 72.2 million 
gross economic output for the State of Montana. Virginia City and Nevada city contributed to 1186 jobs. 
When we use the gross economic output number as a return on investment the Montana Heritage 
Commission has one of the highest if not the highest return on investments of any other state agency. 


While we are proud to be Montana’s top tourist destination and have confirmed we are an economic 
driver for the State of Montana, The Montana Heritage Commission will always welcome opportunities 
for improvement and will put emphasis on best practices of other historic sites on a national level, we 
believe we have the potential to be a top attraction in the nation. We will visit, study and implement 
best practices of other historic sites that will better our historic sites on a continual basis with analysis of 
results at the end of each fiscal year. 


Recommendation # 3 


We recommend the Montana Heritage Commission strengthen its organizational planning process by 
expanding its: 


A. Business plans to include timeline for completion, an evaluation of resources needed, and 
an assessment of staff time required for each proposed project. 

B. Strategic plans to include an assessment of current resources, and a strategic analysis 
indicating how those resources will be distributed among activities identified in the plan. 


A-3 


Response: Concur 


We will develop deadlines for business and strategic plans based on the available financial business 
capital to expand business opportunities. The Executive Director will be reporting on progress of 
objectives given in approved strategic plan at each Montana Heritage Commission meeting. We have 
developed a prioritized list of needs of heritage buildings and our Americana artifact collection and will 
continue to give weekly updates in written format as to the completion process. These weekly reports 
and annual reports will be will be located on our web-site at virginiacitymt.com as well as given to the 
public at their request. 


aa 


Elijah Allen, \e xecutive Director 


Sincerely, 





_ 


Montana Heritage Commission 


Muh few 


M aeshe Ross, Montana Heritage Board Chair 
Montana Heritage Commission 


