Electronically  Recorded 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTI^lWibWi  ANATU 
STRIKE  ANY  OR  A<^^_^  G  INF 

IN  THE  PUBLIC  R  CIAL 

DRIVER'S  UCENSE  NUMBIfljne  Henderson 


Tarrant  County  Texas 


Wi  MAYIRBRSCDBSOR 
BEFORE  IT  ISsFILED 
NUMBER  Ok  YOUR 


XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  {W/17/07)B 


OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  7th  day  of  April,  2009.  between  Martinez,  Genaro  , 

Lessor  {whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is:  3625  Lipscomb  St  Fort  Worth  Tx       and  XTO  Energy 

Ire^,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St.,  Fort  J  J  J    jjiu         ^  . 

1 .  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  ten  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged  and  of  the  oovenants  and 
agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  tor  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  riqht  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  simMar  to 
those  mentioned),  together  withlhe  righl  to  make  surveys  on  said  land,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  suTfaos  or  subsurface 
disposal  of  salt  water  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  build  tankst  power  stations^  telephone  lines,  employee  nouses  and  other  structures 
on  said  land,  necessary  or  useful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring,  drilling  for,  producing,  treaty  storing, and  transporting  minerals  produced 
from  the  land  covered  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby.  Tierein  called  "said  land,  is  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant         State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

The  North  50  feet  of  Block  70,  SILVER  LAKE  ADDITION  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  plat 
recorded  in  Volume  204,  Page  36,  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


This  lease  also  covers  and  includes,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above 
described  and  (a)  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  by  limitation,  prescription,  possession ,  reversion ,  after-acquired  tltte  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b) 
as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of  acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee i  for  a i  more 
complete  or  accurate  description  of  satfland.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  ^  othe^ayrrpr^ere^ 
be  deemed  to  contain    0.16971         acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  rectal  ^.^9*'"^  tract  shall  be 
deemed  to  be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  an d  opbons  he reunder 
2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  tease  shall  remain  in force  for  a  terrnot 
4    years  from  the  date  hereof,  hereinafter  called  "primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted 
uoon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days.  . 
*3  As  ro^K  Lessee tenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  Hie  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  ^SM.rnay^nect  i  s  welte  £e 
equal  part  of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  bme,  at  the  opbon i  of  Lessee <\o  Pressor  the 

averageToste^r^rKet  price  of  such     25^  part  of  such  oil  atthe  wells  as  of  the  day  rt^ 

inn^^Tto^ar •  25%  ofthecost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pfpe  line  oil;  (b)  fo  pay  ^^^^^Q^m 
rxSu^dfrom&aid  land  Wwhen  sold  by  LesseeL  25%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  me ^mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2) 
wtenTsedTL?s^^^  other  products,  the >  maAetyalue,  at  the  ^^^LIj^bsf^ 

suS i  gas and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or jjtad  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  one^ei^rin 
kind  on ralue Tatl h&  wel  or  mine  at  Lessee's  election,  except  that  on  sulphur  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  ($1. 00  per  long 
ton  If  at  the  IxKon  of  the  pnlriaryterrr.  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  and  or 
anv  Sbrtion thereof Keen  rooleo*,  wpab  e ™d f  producing  oil  or  gas.  and  all  such  wells  are  shut-in,  this  tease  shal  nevertheless,  continue  in 
WaS 


cmseSedavs T  and  during : such time  the e  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  orfcefbre  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period.  Lessee 
Sh3S?S FteX  MSofXSil^^  sum  equal  to  one  dollar  (! 51.00) _for  each  acre  of  tendthen  J^hajr.^ 


ESff either ioinly tosuch plrties o thereof/as Lessee^ete*  Any 
oatShS  deposited  in  the  mail  or  ddiveredto  the  party  en itted .to jecoye '  py^or  to  a 

o^ffiorv  bink  wovided ^r  ab^  on  orbefore  the  last  date  forpayment.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  prowted  in 
paSpri  51 ^eTln  tt?e  e^^^^Tom^se  in  whoteor  in  part,  liability  for  payment  Hereunder  shalfrest  exclusively  on  the  then 


eXed  &m Pto  '^vS^JSSS  bV  such'goTemmen^  ^^f^^^X?  MM 

bylxeSbngl^^^  it  for  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  ®  record^,  Such  unit  shall ^tocome 

e»S«  as  o ^the date  Drovided  for  in  said  instrument  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or  instruments  make  no  such  provision,  Uien  such  unrt 
IhTbel^e  K  instruments  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  at  any 

S  a^mlme^  to  b^  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  Praduc^  has  been  estebte^ 

land  or  c*  me  oortion  of  said  land  included  in  the  unit,  or  on  other  (and  unfed  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shaU  be  valid  andj^ctive 
to? II  ImosKoffi tell?  ™n  ft™lhere  tnay  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  n  ^  within  theuniT which are '  not^iveV 
Moled  or  un^ed  Anv  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unrtized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  ot 
%£$  %S^'wSSSSmW^SSBrli  lease.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this ;^fe^h^eadi  sucf.  unj  for 
toeach  separate  Set  within  Ee  unit  if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized 
minerate  fromlhe  Salter  deducting  any  Ssed  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface jacres  J"  such  fend  torn  ea* 
separate  K  ravered  by  this  lease  wthin  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  tiie  unit,  and  foe  Pf^^n^Sh?!?^ 
bwsWeredfo  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royals,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments ;  out  of iroducton^to  be  foe  entire 
ptodSwof  unitizecf  minerals  fromlhe  land  to  which  allocated  in  (he  same  manner  as  though  produced  therefrom  under  foe ^f  rms  of  tols  lease 
The i  owner  of  the^ersionarv  estate  of  any  term  royalty  or  m  nera  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  o 
ffin^yaKfr^lS  on  Sit  shaft  slfcfy  any  imitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  fo^"^ 
which ,  IncRSastarS  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transfemng  any  interest  under Jhfclease  Wding, wrthout 
Ktion  anv shut-in i  rovaltv  which  may  become  payable  under  this  ease)  befiveen  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  thislease  arid 
S^SI^  thisTe¥ase.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  rigfit  of  Lessee  to  releas€ s  as jprouded g^^ri^- 

except  S  Lessee  may  not  so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  nwmlsuijm  ^pooled  eases 
Released  as Jo  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve. any  unit  established  hereunder  by  fling  for 
record 
such  u 
original 


[his  lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended 
o!  sh^f^  inclusion*  such  separate  tracts  within  this  tease  but  Lessee .shall  n«™^s^haw  me  nah  to 

pool  aunWas  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided.  As ■  used  hi  ttis  f^ragraph  4,  the 
words  "separate  tracr  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  asto  any  other 


5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any 
part  or  all  of  said  land  or  of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest. 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillsite  location  or  access 
road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an 
endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or 
not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  nave  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shafextend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 


and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected 
shaH  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  limited  to  the  location  and  drilling  of  wells  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  (hereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 
place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  recordowner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  tease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  it  snail  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 1  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres)1  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  weH,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing j rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations.  t    t   t  ^    ,  .      ,  „  .  ,       .   .  _  . 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  ail  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other^charjes  on  said  land,  buUjessor 
agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Les  -     -         ■  -    ■  1 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other 

andfor  assigns  under  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil,  gas,  sw  .  .      ,      .  „  ^„ 

entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  rcryaltes  andcrther 
moneys  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  (whether 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1 )  any  law,  order,  rule  or 'regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar  (except  financial)  beyond  the 
reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shali  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 2  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well(s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  sakJ 
land,  other  than  exiting  water  weBs,  and  for  afl  purposes  of  this  lease  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  weHbore  shall  be 
deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well.  .  ^  

13  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
qiving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  weH  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
qualities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

14  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  (ocations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may -be limited 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  d rilling,  rework) no  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling, 
reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  otherleases  in  the  vianity,  it  is  agreed  thai :  any  such 
operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease, 
provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  .operations 
under  said  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  tand -Nothing 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 

15.  It  is  hereby  agreed  and  understood  that  there  shall  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of  the pleased "  P^«f^°"^M 
written  permission  from  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased  premises.  Withstanding  the  ™*S^wI?*«2^nrf 
surface  shall  not  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  utilize  the  subsurface  of  the  teased  premses  under  th,s  lease  and 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  exploit,  explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil.gas  and  other  covered  minerals  under  this  lease from wete 
fromlurface  locations  off  the  leased  premises,  including,  but  not  limited  to.  dfectional  or  horizontal  drilling i  activity  ^J.^,  c^es  under  the 
surface  of  the  leased  premises.  This  drilling  surface  waiver  does  not  apply  to  any  surface  rights  associated  with  instruments  other  than 
this  lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 
LESSOR(S) 


STATE  OF 


§S5. 


COUNTY  OF 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


{ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 
Q^dav  f^fifW  20tfry 


My  commission  expires: 


Signature  ^ 


^  Notary  Public 


Seal: 


DIANA  E  RAMIREZ 

Notary  Public,  State  of  T«x« 
My  Commission  Expires 
MOV  06,  2011 


