NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Paid  Up 
^Wilh  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 


PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  jffi  day  of  ^W^vl  olflO^  .  by  and  between  F  &  B  Realty  Inc.,  as  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose 

address  is  3045  Lackland  Rd  Fort  Worth,  TX  76116  Aid  DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES  L.L.C.  2100  Ross  Ave  Suite  1870  Dallas.  Texas.  7S201.  as  Lessee. 
Al!  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  the  party  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  alt  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared 
jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1 .  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained,  Lessor  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee  the  following  described  land, 
hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

Lot(s)  17,  Block  3  of  the  North  Beverly  Hills  Estates,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  more  particularly  described  by  metes 
and  bounds  in  that  certain  plat  recorded  in  Volume  388-X,  Page  9  of  the  plat  Records.  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  (2513  Capri  Dr) 

in  the  county  of  Tarrant,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  0.225  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  may  hereafter  acquire  by  reversion,  prescription 
or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non  hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in 
association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  The  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carton  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as 
hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  any  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor 
which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned  cash  bonus,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any 
additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  the  number  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually  more  or  less. 

2.  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  Two  (2)  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas 
or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect 
pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  separated 
at  Lessee's  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  (25%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the 
oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same 
field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b) 
for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby,  the  royalty  shall  be  Twenty-Five  (25%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a 
proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas 
or  other  substances,  provided  mat  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality 
in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase 
contracts  entered  into  on  the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time 
thereafter  one  or  more  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  capable  of  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paying  quantities  or 
such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  such  well  or  wells  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  he  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or 
production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee,  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-in  royalty  of  one  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  such  payment  to  be  made  to  Lessor  or  to 
Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  below,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anniversary  of  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  while 
the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being 
sold  by  Lessee  from  another  well  or  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the  end  of  the  90-day  period  next  following 
cessation  of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the  amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this 
lease. 

4.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  this  lease  shall  be  paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above  or  its  successors,  which  shall  be 
Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  in  currency,  or  by  check  or  by  draft 
and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  deposit  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to  the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known 
to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  be  succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any  reason  fail  or  refuse  to  accept  payment  hereunder. 
Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  institution  as  depository  agent  to  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  in  Paragraph  3.  above,  if  Lessee  drills  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  (hereinafter  called  "dry  hole")  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  any  cause,  including  a  revision  of  unit  boundaries  pursuant 
to  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  6  or  the  action  of  any  governmental  authority,  then  in  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in 
force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing  well  or  for  drilling  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  or  restoring  production  on  the  leased  premises  or 
lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  days  after  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  hole  or  within  90  days  after  such  cessation  of  all  production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or 
at  any  time  thereafter,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  any  other  operations  reasonably  calculated  to  obtain 
or  restore  production  therefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  one  or  more  of  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days, 
and  if  any  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is  production  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises 
or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  to  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on 
other  lands  not  pooled  therewith.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or 
zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order 
to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling 
for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  foT  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not 
exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well 
spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well" 
and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an 
initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1 00,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  wel  I"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  1 00,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour 
production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means 
an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  intervat  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment,  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well 
in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall 
file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all 
or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's 
royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the 
unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee 
shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in 
order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage 
determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective 
date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which 
royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  thereof.  Lessee 
may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of 
interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  for  any  well  on  any  part  of  the 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  the  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  full  mineral  estate  in  such  part  of 
the  leased  premises. 

8.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereundermay  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and 
obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have 
the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been 
furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the  satisfaction  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the 
notification  requirements  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  form  of  division  order  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or 
tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each 
owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of 


1 


the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee 
transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between 
Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  then  held  by  each. 

9.  "Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  he  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee 
releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby.  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance 
with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized  herewith,  in 
primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as  may  be  reasonably 
necessary  fOT  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells, 
disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport 
production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  on  the  leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or 
ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased 
premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  ot  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter 
has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below 
ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder, 
without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damage  caused  by  its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to 
commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased 
premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  time  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil,  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling,  reworking, 
production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  equipment,  services,  material,  water, 
electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike  or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a 
satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause  not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease 
shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's  option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable 
for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party  offering  to  purchase  from  Lessor 
a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  with  the  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of 
this  lease.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other 
pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  of  the  notice,  shall  have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or 
part  thereof  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

13.  No  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  90  days  after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written 
notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final 
judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said 
judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  unto  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsirface  well  bore  easement 
under  and  through  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which  are  situated  on  other 
tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  to  royalty  or  other  benefit.  Such 
subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  with  the  land  and  survive  any  termination  of  this  lease. 

1 5.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes,  mortgages  or 
liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  on  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made, 
and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any 
claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title.  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory 
evidence  that  such  claim  has  been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease,  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other  operations. 

17.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  One  (I)  from  the  end  of  the 
primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  conditions  as  granted  for  this  lease. 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS;  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  bonus  and  royalty,  are  market  sensitive  and  may 
vary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are  final  and 
that  Lessor  entered  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  depending  on  market  conditions.  Lessor 
acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  get  the  highest  price  or  different  terms  depending  on 
future  market  conditions.  Neither  party  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  this  transaction  based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  has  or  may  negotiate 
with  any  other  lessors/oil  and  gas  owners. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  be  effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  Hie  signatory  and  the  signatory's  heirs, 
devisees,  executors,  administrator^-sflC^essors  and  assigns,  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor, 

LESSOR  (WHETHI 

Signature:  ^      1  I  ^    fcJQ^^-.  Signature: 


Printed  Name:  Printed  Name: 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the  day  of  ,  20  ,  by 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


.day  of. 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


20  ,  by 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


STATE  OF  T! 
COUNTY  OF 


CORPORATE  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


™™ 1 Y  Ur  uurcMLi   0q  -  • 

l^instiyment  was  acknowledged  befcrejne  on  the  ZTT  day  of  4ty\  ■ 
fd^  ffM^lhC-  ajFyfl^  comoration.^nblhal 


 ,  20' 

corporation,  oh  behalf  of  said  corporation 


04  hrfiM  ffafttrpwAi; 


.ilittlri,, 

$$c*$k      BENJAMIN  COMPTON 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
'^f,!^       November  21 , 201 0 


of 


Notary  TublicAState  ofTexas 
Notary's>r9a»*(printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


2 


ADDENDUM 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  ("Lease")  dated  the  day  of  I        2009,  by 

and  between  F  &  B  Realty  Inc.,  Lessor,  and  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC,  Lessee,  covering  the  following  described  land  in  Tarrant 
County,  Texas; 

Lot(s)  17,  Block  3  of  the  North  Beverly  Hills  Estates,  an  addition  to  the  City  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  more  particularly 
described  by  metes  and  bounds  in  that  certain  plat  recorded  in  Volume  388-X,  Page  9  of  the  plat  Records.  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  (2513  Capri  Dr) 

The  following  terms  and  provisions  shall  take  precedence  over  and  supersede  anything  to  the  contrary  heretofore  contained  and  shall 
inure  to  the  benefit  of  the  parties  hereto,  their  respective  successors,  heirs,  legal  representatives  and  assigns. 

0.     •         SuTface  Use. 

0.  It  is  the  intention  of  Lessor  and  Lessee  that  the  Lease  and  the  Land  covered  by  the  Lease  shall  be  a  non-drilling 

lease.  Accordingly,  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor,  which  can  be  withheld  in  Lessor's  sole 
discretion,  Lessee  may  not  enter  upon  the  land  covered  by  the  Lease,  and  cannot  conduct  any  operations  of 
any  nature  on  the  surface  of  the  land  covered  by  the  Lease.  Without  limiting  the  generality  of  the  forgoing, 
Lessee  understands  and  agrees  that  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  cannot  (i)  come  on,  over  or  across  the 
land  covered  by  the  Lease,  (ii)  conduct  any  drilling  (except  horizontal  drilling  from  an  off -lease  drill  site), 
exploration,  geologic  or  geophysical  operations  on  the  land  covered  by  the  Lease,  (iii)  store  any  materials  or 
supplies  or  install  or  locate  any  equipment  or  facilities  on  the  land  covered  by  the  Lease,  nor  (iv)  lay  any 
pipelines  or  utilities  on,  over,  under  or  across,  the  land  covered  by  the  Lease. 

Royalty. 


-1.     As  royalties,  Lessee  agrees: 

-1.  To  deliver  free  of  cost  to  Lessor  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  at  the  pipeline  to  which  the  wells  may  be 

connected,  25/100ths  (25.0%)  (the  "Royalty  Fraction")  of  all  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and 
saved  from  the  Land.  At  Lessor's  option,  which  may  be  exercised  from  time  to  time,  Lessee  shall  pay  to 
Lessor  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  at  the  well  of  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  of  like  grade 
and  gravity  prevailing  in  the  area  on  the  day  the  oil  and  other  hydrocarbons  are  run  from  the  lease.  (The 
"area"  means  the  general  area  in  which  the  Land  is  located.) 


- 1 .  To  pay  to  Lessor: 

-1  -  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  by  Lessee  pursuant  to  an  arms-length  contract  with  a 

purchaser  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  for  a  term  no  longer  than  that  which  is  usual 
and  customary  in  the  industry  at  the  time  the  contract  is  made,  and  in  any  event  for  a 
term  of  one  (1)  year  or  less,  and  to  which  the  following  subparagraphs  (b)  and  (c)  do 
not  apply,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  at  Hie  point  of 
sale,  plus  the  reimbursement  and  adjustments  required  by  the  provision  of  paragraphs 
2B,2C  and  2D  below. 

-1  ■  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  by  Lessee  to  an  affiliate  or  used  on  or  off  the  Land  by 

Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  and  to  which  the  following  subparagraph  (c)  does 
apply,  the  greater  of  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  (i)  the  market  value  of  the  gas  at  the  point 
of  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition,  or  (ii)  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  at  the 
point  of  sale,  use  or  other  disposition,  and,  in  either  case,  plus  the  reimbursements, 
adjustments  and  other  payments  required  by  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2B,  2C  and 
2D  below. 

-1  ■  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  that  is  processed  in  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee  or  an 

affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect  interest,  the  greater  of  the  Royalty  Fraction  of 
the  market  value  of  the  gas  at  the  inlet  to  the  processing  plant,  OR  the  Royalty  Fraction 
of  the  market  value  of  all  processed  liquids  saved  from  the  gas  at  the  plant,  plus  the 
Royalty  Fraction  of  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  for  residue  gas  at  the  point  of 
sale,  use  or  other  disposition;  and,  in  every  case,  plus  the  reimbursements,  adjustments 
and  other  payments  required  by  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2B ,  2C  and  2D  below . 

-1 .  The  market  value  of  gas  will  be  determined  at  the  specified  location  by  reference  to  the  gross  heating  value  (measured  in  British 
thermal  units)  and  quality  of  the  gas.  The  market  value  used  in  the  calculation  of  oil  and  gas  royalty  will  never  be  less 
than  the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  in  connection  with  the  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced 
and  sold,  used  or  disposed  of,  plus  the  requirements,  adjustments  and  other  payments  required  by  the  provisions  of  this 
paragraph  2B,  and  paragraphs  2Cand  2D  below.  For  purposes  of  this  paragraph  2,  if  Lessee  receives  from  a  purchaser 
of  oil  or  gas  any  reimbursement  for  all  or  any  part  of  severance  or  production  taxes,  or  if  Lessee  realizes  proceeds  of 
production  after  deduction  for  any  expense  of  production,  gathering,  dehydration,  separation,  compression, 
transportation,  treatment,  processing,  storage,  or  marketing,  then  the  reimbursement  or  the  deductions  will  be  added  to 
the  total  proceeds  received  by  Lessee.  Royalty  calculated  in  the  manner  provided  in  this  paragraph  2  will  be  paid  on  oil 
and  gas  produced  from  the  Land  and  consumed  by  Lessee  or  others  for  compression,  dehydration,  fuel,  or  other  use. 

-1.  Lessor's  royalty  will  never  bear,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  part  of  Lessee's  costs  or  expenses  of  production,  separation, 
gathering,  dehydration,  compression,  transportation,  trucking,  processing,  treatment,  and  storage  on  the  Land  (or  any 
land  pooled  with  the  Land),  or  any  part  of  the  costs  of  construction,  operation,  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other 
facilities  or  equipment  used  in  the  handling  of  oil  or  gas,  or  any  part  of  Lessee's  costs  of  expenses  to  lay  a  pipeline  to  the 
point  of  sale,  use  or  other  disposition,  or  any  charges,  fees  or  deductions  to  transport  production  through  any  pipelines  or 
facilities  of  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  to  the  point  of  sale,  use  other  disposition;  provided,  further,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear 
its  share  of  the  actual  charges,  fees  and  deductions,  to  transport  production  through  any  pipelines  or  facilities  of  a  non- 
affiliated third  party  off  the  Land  (and  any  land  pooled  with  the  Land)  or  beyond  the  point  of  sale,  use  or  other 
disposition,  which  are  taken  into  consideration  in  calculating  the  total  proceeds  paid  for  the  production  at  the  point  of 
sale,  use  or  other  disposition. 

-1 .  Lessor  shall  be  paid  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  all  payments  and  other  benefits  made  under  any  oil  or  gas  sales  contract  or  other 
arrangement,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  stand  by  fees,  reserve  maintenance  fees,  premiums,  take-or-pay  payments,  or 
any  other  payment  or  benefit  regardless  of  the  name  or  purpose  for  the  payment  or  benefit,  and  payments  received  in 
settlement  of  disputes  relating  to  any  contracts  related  to  the  sale,  use  or  other  disposition  of  the  oil  or  gas;  provided  that 
if  Lessor  receives  a  recoupable  take-or-pay  or  similar  payment  for  gas  that  has  not  been  produced,  and  if  the  gas  is 
subsequently  produced,  Lessor's  royalty  for  such  make-up  gas  shall  be  determined  after  giving  credit  for  the  take-or- 
pay  or  similar  payment  actually  received  by  Lessor  for  such  gas. 

-1.  As  used  in  this  Lease,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other  legal  entity  that  owns  more  than 
ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of  Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding 
voting  interest;  or  (ii)  a  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other  legal  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more 
than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interests  of  both  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or 
other  legal  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  persons  or  group  of  persons. 

-1 .  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well  not  later  than  90  days 
after  completion  of  the  well,  in  the  case  of  an  oil  well,  or  after  the  pipeline  connection,  in  the  case  of  a  gas  well. 
Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be  disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  by  the  last  day  of  the 
second  month  after  the  month  of  production.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear  interest  at  the  maximum 
lawful  rate  from  the  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay. 


-1.     Acceptance  by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  will  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive  interest  due 
thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  a  writing  signed  by  Lessor, 

-1.     The  receipt  by  Lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of  production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not 


result  in  Lessee  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to  those  proceeds,  but  Lessee  will  at  all  lime  hold  the  proceeds  in  trust 
for  the  benefit  of  the  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  failure  of  any  purchaser  of  production  to  pay  Lessee  for  oil  or  gas 
produced  from  the  Land,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a 
purchaser  of  production  from  the  Land  or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the  Land,  Lessee  will  remain 
liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor  together  with  interest  if  not  timely 
paid. 


Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to  title  to  the  Land.  By  acceptance  of  the  Lease,  Lessee 
acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted  sufficient  investigation  to 
satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures.  If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the 
Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  (including  shut-in  royalties)  payable  hereunder  will  be 
reduced  proportionately. 


- 1 .     No  Warranties, 


President 


of  said  corporation. 


20I23, 


corporation,  on  behalf 


DALE  PROPERTY  SERVICES 
ATTN:  ANN  VANDENBERG 
2100  ROSS  AVE,  STE  1870,  LB-9 
DALLAS  TX  75201 


Submitter:  DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLERK 
TARRANT  COUNTY  COURTHOUSE 
100  WEST  WEATHERFORD 
FORT  WORTH,  TX  76196-0401 

DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration: 
trument  #: 


05115/2009  08:15  AM 
□2*9130012 
LSE  ^  PGS 


$28.00 


By: 


D209130012 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY  BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Printed  by:  DS 


