Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

.  Official. Public. Records  _..  2009  Jun.03.0_1;1 1.  PM 


D2091 47171 


Fee:  $  24,00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  \::'.y}]  3  Pages 


Suzanne  Henderson. 


NOTICE  OF;  CONFIDEN£lAnT^(U^^ 

STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT 
TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC 
RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUJyiBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER.  ■ .  •"  "'  ' 


Producers  88  (4-89)  —  Pfltfl  Up 
With  640  Acres  PbofnD  Provision 

PAID  UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  28th  day,  of  May,  2009,  between  GREG  ROESLER.  1ftn?  Pri  WinftiCir  Southlake-Tx 
■  76092  "as  Lessor,  and  ;FALOMA  B&RI^^^ 

jirinfed  portions  of  this  lease  'were  prepared  by  the' party  hereinabove  h&rhed.as^LessBev'  biit'all  btherpfaytsiOnS  (ta.auti'jrig.  the 
completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  arid  Lessee.  - 

.  1,  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  iri 'hand  paid  arid  ihe-eoveriaite;  herein:  contained,. Lessor  hereby.grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  toi^s^  We'foilbwiria. 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises:  " '"  ':  '  " 

0.292  acres,  more  or  less,  situated  in  the  Jam^,W  Lane  Survey,  A-950,  and  being  Lot  23,  Block  6,  «f  Waverly  Place,  an  additlon  to  the 
City  of  Arlington,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  accordingtdtbe  map  or  plat  thereof  recorded  in  Volume  388-1 70*  Page  36,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant 
iSounty  Ter-as. 

In  the  County -of  TARRANT:  Slate. or  TEXAS.1  cofttalfiihq  :0i292':gro3s  acres;  more  orless^includirig  any  interests  thefeiriwbicri  Lessor  rrev:  hereafter  ar^uft,e;;by . 
.reversion,  prescription  or  othemrise);  for.  the. purpose  and,gas.  along  with' an  . hydro^rbOh.a^ 

substances  produced  in  association  tt*erew*;^uairigjgejip.riy^  operations)  The  term  -gas"  as.  used  herein-indudes  beSum;  cart^^io>(iaV.'afl(i;iblri&:  . 

commercial  gases;  as  well  as'hydroeafbbn  gases.  In^a'drJitfon  ^'ihe;ab6^descrl&fed  leased  Remises,  this  lease; also  covers  accretions  arid  any: small; strips  orparcels . 
of  land  now  or  hertafler  owried  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  drad^  premises-and.  in  consideration  of  ^e.afirem'ehlidn.Miash . 

bdrius.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  .additional/or  supplemental  instruments  lor  a  moreoompleteor  accurate  description -6f,i5fi.iand  .s6.:G^ieTed.. 
"to  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  shirt-in  royalties /hereunder;  'the  number  of  gross  acres -above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct,  whether  actually 
more  or  less. 

2,  This  lease,  which  Is  a  "paid-up"  lease  Requiring  no  retitals,  Shall  be'lri  force  for  a  primary  term  of  five  (5)  years  from  the  dafe  Hereof,  arid:for  a'sitorig,  . 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  tiereby.are  produced  iri  paying  quantities  from  the  teased  premises  or  frorh  lands  pooled  there^  ortftis  lease-is; 
otherwise  maintained  In  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil,  gas  and  other  substances -produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  jiessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  ■  (a)  'For  oiLand. other,  liquid.- 
riytfrocarbons  separated  at  Lessee's  separator  faaiitles,  We  royalty  shall  be  twenty  .five  .percent.  125  %1  of  such  production,  to-be  delivered  at  LessWs'.'cpbon  to  . 
.Lessor  at  the  wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  crtidit  'at'ihetiil  .pui'cr^^  mat'  Lessee  shall  have  theieontihuihg'Ti^ 

production  at  the  wellhead  market  price  Itien  prevailing  In  the  Sarfie'fleld  (o'rjf  there  Is'no such  price  then  prevailing  in  the 'same  field,  then  in  the  nearest'1i&d  ih.which 
there  Is  such  a  prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity:  (bj  for  gas  (including  casing  head  gas)  and  all  other  substances  coyei^.fter^y.me'royaily 
shall  be  twenty  five  percent  (25%)  offhe  proceeds' realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production, 
severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  the  costs  incuned  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  Other  substances,  provided' that  Lessee 
shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price paid  lor  production  of  similar  quality  in  trie  same  fieW.(or.if  there is  :rib 
such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field.  1hen  In  the  nearest  fleM  In  which  there  Is  such  a  prevailing  price)  pursuant  tocompalable  purchase  'contracts  entered  hid  on 
the  same  or  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  date  on  which  Lessee  wmrhences  itspurtf^ses^eieonden  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  .temi  or  any  time  thereafter 
one  or  more  weBs  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  are  cajjabte  ol  either  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  subslances  covered  hereby  Sn'paying'quantrltes 
or  such  wells  are  waiting  on  hydraulic  fradure  stimulation,  but  such  well  or  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  Is  not  being  sold  by  Le&see,  such  'weirdr  wells 
shall  nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  producing  In  paying  quahtiHes  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of  90  consecutive  days  such  Well  or  Wens  are 
shut-tn  or  production  merefrorn  is  not  being  sold  by  Lessee;  then  Lessee  shall  pay  shut-lh  royalty  of  bne  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease;  sucti'paymerrl  tb;be 
made  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  the  depository  designated  beloW,  on  or  before  the.end  Of  said  90-day  pertod  and  thereafter  on  or  befare each -anniversary  of  the 
end  of  said  90-day  period  while  the  well  or  wells  are  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is 'riot  being  sold  by  Leasee;  provided  .that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained', 
by  operations,  or  if  production  is  being  sold  by  Lessee  from  another  welt  orweils-on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewilh.no  shut-in  royalty  shall  be  due  until 
the  end  of  the  BO-day  period  nextfolowing  cessation  Of  such  operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the 
amount  due,  but  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

A.  All  shut-in  royalty  payments  under  Hits' lease  shali  be. paid  or  tendered  to  Lessor  or  to  Lessor's  credit  in  at  lessor's  address  above-;  oritssuccessors,- 
which  shall  be  Lessor's  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  tenders  may  be  made  In  Currency 
or  by  check  or  by  dralt  and  such  payments  or  tenders  to  Lessor  or  to  the  depository  by  Heposit  In  the  US  Mails  In  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or  to 
the  Lessor  at  the  last  address  known  to  Lessee  shall  constitute  proper  payment.  If  the  depository  should  liquidate  or  ba  .succeeded  by  another  institution,  or  for  any 
reason  fait  or  refuse  lo  accept  payment  hereunder.  Lessor  shall,  at  Lessee's  request,  deliver  to  Lessee  a  proper  recordable  instrument  naming  another  irisiltuiiori  as 
depository  agent  1o  receive  payments. 

5.  Except  as  provided  for  m  Paragraphs,  above.  If  Lessee  dries  a  well  which  is  incapable  of  producing  in  paying  quantifies  (hereinafter  called  "dry  toleTpp  the  . 
leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  if  all  production  .(Whether  or  not  lri;paying  quantities)  permanently  cesses  frorfVany  cause,  including  a -revision  of  unit, 
boundaries  pursuant  lo  the  provisions  of  Paragraph  S  -or  the  action  Of  any:gbvemrriehtal  authority,  then  In  the  event  this  lease  is  not  otherwise :being.'rnSuntalned  iri  force 
it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  if  Lessee  commences  operations  for  reworking  an  existing'well  or  for  drilling  an  .additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  pr'reStoririg- 
productkm  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  within  90  daysafler  completion  of  operations  on  such  dry  H0I&  or  within  9i)  days  after  such  cessation 'of  "all 
production.  If  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term,  or  al  ariy  tirne'  thereafter,  this  leasers  not  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  Is  thenVerigaged  In  drilling, 
reworking  or  any  olher  operations  reasonably  calculated  td  obtain  or  reslore  prtfc'uction  '.herefrom,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  .any  one  ormiora  of  such 
operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than '90 consecutive dayi, and  if  .any  such  operations  result  in  Ihe  production  of  oil  or  gas. or  Differ  substances 
covered  hereby,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  Is  production  in  paying  quantities  frOrh  ihe  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  iherewilh.  After  completion  of  a  well  capable  of 
producing  in  paying  quantities  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator 
would  drill  under  itie  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  teased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased 
premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  or  (b)  lo  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  any  well  or  wells  located  on  other  lands  riot  pooled  therewith. 
There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wd Is  or  any.additional  wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

6  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  bul  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  Or  any  part -of  the  teased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lanas  or  interests,  as  to  any 
or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  lo  any  or  all  subslances  covered  by  this  lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production;  whenever  lessee :deems  it 
necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  In  order  to  prudently  develop1. or  operate  trie:ie'ased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  With  respect  to  such  other 
lands  or  interests  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum' acreage  tolerance  of 
10%  and  (or  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acraage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  thai  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for 
an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or  horlzonlal  completion  to  conform  (b  any  wen  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authonty 
bavinq  lurisdiclton  to  do  so  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "ofl  well*  and  "gas  well'  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate 
Governmental  authority,  ot,  If  no  definition  is  SO  prescribed,  -oil  weir  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  1  DO.OOO  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  gas  well 
rneans  a  welt  with  an  initial  gas-ol  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using 
standard  tease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  tesling  equipment;  and  thfeterm  'horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  ihe  gross 
complelion  interval  in  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  Ihe  term  "horizontal  completion-  means  an  oil  well  in  which  the  horizontal  corrpc^nt  ofthe i  gross 
complelion  interval  in  the  reservoir  exceeds  Ihe  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  nghts  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  recorc Is ,  written Ration 
describing  the  unit  and  Stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  ur,  wh.ch  eludes  all  or  ^  ^rl  of  m^ased 
premises  shan  be  treated  as  *  it  were  production,  drilling  or  rewortdng  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  ^*^s5iL'°^.|^ 
calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  Ihe  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  mcluded  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  tora  ,9™ss  acreage  in  Uie 
unHbutonty  lo  the  extent  such  proportion  Of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee  s  pooling  righK  hereunder^ 
and  Lessee  shaM  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contract^  or  both  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  prod urtonTin  OhSr  to  conform  to  the  wel 1  spacing  or  density  pailem  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  govemmen tal  a «  having  Z^Sration 
Snronr ^  tT any  produce  acreage  determination  made  by  such  oovemmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision.  Lessee  shall  fi^,rir^rdi1w'itt!n.  2^SS5 
describing  the  nibed  unit  and  stitling  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  1he  extent  any  portion  rf  tie  leased  premises  ,s  included  ,n  or  excluded  from  the  unit  W 
such  reSlo7  Uie  pmpofflon  of  untt  pioduclion  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  £  pay  ng 

quant™!  a  u^Por  uf^.  p^anent  cessaSon  thereol,  Lessee  m^y  lermlnate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the 
jdale  of  terrrtnation.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  crass-conveyance  of  Interests. 


.7.  If  l^or  owns  less  wan-metull  miriefia  .e^^ 
any.parto)  the  leased  premises  or  larids/^edihereWihsliairte^iic^b'.meproponidn  thai  f^sors  Interest  in  such  part  .or  the  teased  presses  tears  to  the  full 
mineral estafs. In suc^ part oflr^leasMprefrSses.-  ■  ■  .    .--.>.  -  ■    ■  ; 

■         8-  T^e  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  o:  otherwise*  IransTerfed  in  whole  or  m  pari  by  area  aridtof  by  depth  or  zone, 
and  the  Aghtb  and-obSgatlons^df  thft'p«irtie%  H€i^nUershall  ,'exlerid  fb' tteir>ie4ipe!^^'heire.^e^£j^^;  ^^uldis.'^irninisira.tot'v:  sucbe-ssocsi-ancf  eitoigHs.'  -No'bHaiig^iT' : 
lessor's  ownership  shall  have  theeffedwredu^mg'me'Y^  and  no^ar^e'inOwnersiiip'9ha)rt^-bjrirJiaa  driX4ssee:: 

Unlii  eO'days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  ceTtifTed  ordulyaWieritir^ediC^es  ^if  the  docurrwnts -establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to  the 
■saHsfaeb'bn  of  Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notificaUon  requirements  contained  t-.  Lessea's  usual  form  of  division  order   In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any', 
person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or'. tender  such  shut-in  royaillcs  to  the  credit  of  decedent  of  decedent's  estate i in  'the. dep.^ 
.deslgnatad  above,  if  at  any  time  twoer  more'pe'iMh^are.e^  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  rbyaWes^tb-such:pefsVnspr  to- 

■their  oedit  in  the  depository,  either  jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  Interest  which  eiach  owns.  .  If  Lessee  1ransfers;rts  interest  hereunder*  whole  b'r  in'  part 
liessee  shall  be  relieved  of  ai  bbligalronS  ther^er  ar^  such  obllgatiatis' with  f£sbectao. 

trie  transferred  interest  shall  not  affect  the  rights  of. Lessee  wilh  respect  to  any  interest  nol  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  ot -undivided^  htSfeslin  aiior.any 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties; hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  me  lranaTaree.in  'proribrtionW 
thenet  acreage  interest  in  this  lease  thenheBby  each. . 

9.  Lessee  may,  at  any  lime  and  from  timeilo  trne,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  wriflen  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  orany. 
portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  iones  .thereirvJer,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  Of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  . with  respect  to  tho 
interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releasesall  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  thart  all  rjllhe.area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shiri-ln  royalties'  shall  ■ 
Be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  WHhlhe  net  acreage1  interest  retained  hereunder.  ...-.-.-.' 

: .  1 0.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  produemg  and  martceting.oii,  gas'  arid  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  Uie  teased  brermses  or  lands'pooied. or  Unitized 
herewith.  In  primary  and/or  eriianced  rewery.  l^ee  premised 
as  may  be  reasonably  necessary  Tor  such'riurr^se^'lnclublhg  but  not  limited  to' geophysical  "operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  trie  construction  and  use  of  roads 
canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  dl^saVvve(s;:ir^ect)6n'wais,pns,  etectfic  and  le^hone- lines,  power  Stations,  and  Other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee'. to 
discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  Irarepdrt  production,  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operatibHs,'. free  Of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  other  substances  produced  Dn 
the  leased  premises,  except  walerfrom  Lessor's  waits  or  ponds;  in  exploring,  deVSIbping.produdng  or  marKeting  from  the  leased  premises  orlands.pooled  IherewHfi, 
the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  lottie  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  :dr  other  partial 
termination  of  this  tease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in  tohlch  Lessor  now  or.hereafler  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased: premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  cn  cultivated  lands.  No  «v61l  shall  be  . located  less  than 
200  feet  Iron  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  oilier  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessfte  shall  pay  for  damage 
caused  by  its  operations  to  buddings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon. 
Lessee  shall  have  Ihe  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials.  . including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  orsucn  other  lands  ounng  ;ne 
term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  Hme  thereafter. 

11.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  Including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  weas.  arid  the  price  of  oil.  gas.  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When'drlting, 
reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,'  rules  .-regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to obtain 'necessary  permits,  equipment, 
services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war.  sabotage,  rebelliori,  Insurrection,,  riot,  strife  or  labor 
disputes,  or  by  inability  la  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  Tor  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  earners  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  By'a'ny. other  cause-not 
reasonably  within  Leasee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  .because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  ai  Lessee's  option;  (he  period  of  .such  prevention  or  delay 
shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express:  or  implied  covenanls  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations 
are  so  prevented,  delayed  or  interrupted. 

12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  1he  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  &  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  Is  willing  Id  accept  from  any  party  offering  to 
purchase  from  Leaser  a  tease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  tease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  Of  the  land  described  berein.  with  the-lease 
becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease.  Lessor  hereby  agrees  lo  notify  Lessee  iri  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  th6  notice  Ihe  name  and.aBdress 
of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  after  receipt  6f  the  notice.-shall  have  tha  prior 
and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  the  lease  or  part  thereof  or  inlerest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and  conditions 
specified  in  ihe  ofTer. 

13.  No  Btlgalion  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect.lo  any  breach  0'  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  SOdays.after  Lessor  has  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default  arid  then  only  . if  Lessee.failsto'remerly  the  breach  or  default,' wilhiri  such  period.'  In  thei-eyeht  the  matfa.ts 
litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  Ehat  a  -breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this.ne'ase  shall  not  be  forfeited  or  canceleii  in  whole  or  in  part. unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  ctetenrinatJbn  to  remedy.Uie  biea^ 

-14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above,:  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  ard  conveys  unto  Lessee;  iis  successors  end  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
easement  under  and  Ihrough  the  leased  premisesfot  the  placemen!  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or.gas  wells  Ihe  surface  locations  of  which . 
are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop i  the  teased  premises  w  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right.to 
royaltyorotherbeneflt.  Sur*  subsuifara  y^I  tore  easements  shall  riiri  with  tnelanda^survivearr/ termination  of  this  lease, 

15,  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  at  Lessee's  oplion  may  pay  and  discharge  any 
taxes,  mortgages  or  liens  existing,  levied  or  assessed  Oh  or  against  the  leased  premises.  If  Lessee  exercises  such  option.  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of 
the  party  to  whom  payment  is  made,  and.  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  Itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-n  royalties  otherwise  payable  Id  Lessor 
hereunder.  In  the  event  Lessee  is  made  aware  of  any  claim  inconsistent  with  Lessor's  title,  Lessee  may  suspend  the  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties 
hereunder,  without  interest,  until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  thai  such  claim  has  Been  resolved. 

16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease.  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or 
other  operations. 

1T.  Lessor,  and  Iheir  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additjonal  period  of  pVe-(51 
years  from  Ihe  end  of  the  primary  lerm  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  the  primary  term  the  same  bonus:  consideration;  terms  arid  conditions  as 
granted  tor  this  lease, 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  LeesUfll^r,0M'I^,3es:tn-atolland-oa^  tease  P&yrnanti.'inthe  form  of  rental,  bonus  arid  royally,  are  market  sensitive  arid  may 
Sary  depending  on  multiple  factors  and  that  this  Lease  teWelJi^uctof^OOd  lalltl  negotlafjohs.-  Lessor  understands  that  these  lease  payments  and  terms  are' final  and , 
.  tt\B\  Lessor  enteral  into  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  trial  lease  values  could  go  up  or  down  dej^r&ha'^nmart^ 
acknowledges  that  no  representations  or  assurances  were  made  in  the  negotiation  of  this  lease  that  Lessor  would  991  the  highest  price  or  diflorentterrns  depending  on 
future  market  conditions.  NeMerparty  to  this  lease  wiltseek  ^  based  upon  any-differing terms  wWr^  Le'sSee  has  b'rrfay^ 

ariyolherlessc-rs/Qllandgasowners:  -- -' - 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  to  beeffectJve  as  of  the'  date; first' wiilten  abovei  bul  upon  execution  shall  be binding  drj  designator^  and  the 
signatorys  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators;  ^ccessbrs  aha  assigns,-  whether  cr  no1  litis  lease  has  been  executed  by  ail  parties^iiereifianove.  named  as 
Lessor. 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARftANT 


ACKNOWLEDG  M  feNT 


This  instrument  was1  acl^bwfedg^ibefOTe  riiefln  ^&f^  /■  day  of 

Greg  Roester 


iVda/y  Public 
State  of  Texas 
my  oomm.  expires  02-10-2010 


6ry  Public.  Slate  of  Texas 
Notary's  "ria  ma  (prirtted): 
fjolarv'a'commfssion  expires: 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  . 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 

This  instrument  was  acioiowtedgeti  before  me  on  the:. 


;  CORPORATE  ■  AC  KNOVfl^E  D(3  M  ENT 


.dayof . 


.corporation,  an  behaif  tf.  said  corporation. 


RECORDING  INFORMATION 
STATE  OF  TEXAS 


-  County  gf  TARRANT 


-jfhis  instrument  was'filed  lor  record  on  the . 
rre&rdedin 


j-dayof_ 


Notary  Public  State  bF  Texas 
Notary's  name  (printed): : 
;  Ntf&h/.s  oSfWrtlfeibh' expires: 


-Instrument  Number: 


.  records  of  this  office. 


By. 


