Electronically  Recorded     Tarrant  County Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2009  Aug  21  01:04  PM  r-»««rN«rt 

D209225719 

Fee:  $20.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE  2  Pages 

Suzanne  Henderson 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE 
FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  BEFORE  IT  18  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL 
SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  88  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  2&th  *y  of   Jofc  2*tt_J*wwn 

ThOTM  Wade  Greene,  a  ■arrted  man  d«tti»r  i»  hi,  «nl>        «,p,raf  ^riv  

Lessor  (whether  one  or  mow)  whose  address  is:  42M  E.  M««a«t  Fn/r«#  St .  ArHnyfam.T««  1610*   


and  XTO  Energy  Inc.  810  HWnn  Str^r.  Part  Worth.  T«aa  7*1fl2   Lenee,  WITNESSETH: 

1.  Low.  in  coruiderarion  of  ten  doners  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and  agrttmtim  of  Lessee 
hereinafter  contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  for  the  purpose*  and  with  the  exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and 
operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  similar  to  those  mentioned),  together  with  the  right  to  make  surveys  on  said 
tad,  lay  pipe  lines,  establish  and  utilize  facilities  for  surface  or  subsurface  disposal  of  sak  water,  construct  roads  and  bridges,  dig  canals,  buiM  tanks,  power  stations, 
telephone  lines,  employee  houses  and  other  structures  on  said  bud,  necessary  or  uaeful  in  Lessee's  operations  in  exploring.  driBing  for,  producing,  treating,  storing  and 
transporting  minerals  produced  from  the  land  coveted  hereby  or  any  other  land  adjacent  thereto.  The  land  covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land,"  is  located  in  the 
County  of  Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows: 

0.500  of  an  acre  of  land,  mare  or  less,  out  of  a  70.909  acre  tract,  situated  la  the  Sydacy  S.  Callander  Survey,  A-359,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas  being  more  particularly  described  as  the  0.50  acre  tract  Save  and  Excepted  In  that  certain  Warranty  Deed  dated 
December  21, 1904  from  J.  W.  Dalton  and  wife,  E.  A.  Dalton,  to  AJfc.  Collier,  which  established  the  cemetery  presently  known 
as  Grunsley  Cemetery  at  recorded  In  Volume  194,  Page  505,  Official  Public  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


DRILLING  SURFACE  RESTRICTIONS:  ft  ts  hereby  agreed  and  understood  that  there  shall  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  without  me  prior 
written  permission  front  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased  premises. 

This  lease  abo  covers  and  inctudw,  in  addition  to  that  above  described,  all  land,  if  any,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  or  adjoining  the  land  above  described  and  (a)  owned  or 
claimed  by  Lessor  by  Imitation,  prescription,  possession,  reversion,  after-acquired  title  or  unrecorded  instrument  or  (b)  as  to  which  Lessor  has  a  preference  right  of 
acquisition.  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  any  supplemental  instrument  requested  by  Lessee  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  said  land.  For  the  purpose  of 
determining  the  amount  of  any  bc^  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land  shall  be  deemed  to  contain  i.5001  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and 
the  above  recital  of  acreage  in  any  tract  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  true  acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and 
options  hereunder. 

2.  Unless  sooner  terminated  or  longer  kept  in  force  under  other  provisions  hereof,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of   ONE  ill  vers  from  the  date 
hereof,  hereinafter  called  "primary  term,"  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as  hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety 
(90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  As  royalty.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees:  (a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  wells,  the  equal  20*  part  of  a0 
oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the  average  posted  market  price  offuch  20%  part  of  such 
oil  at  the  wells  asoftbedayitisruntothe  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks.  Lessor's  interest,  in  ehher  case,  to  bear  20%  of  the  cost  of  treating  ofl  to  render  h  marketable  pipe 
line  oil;  (b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casinghead  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  Lessee,  20%  of  the  amount  realized  by  Lessee,  ccenputed  at  the  mouth 
of  the  wdL  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  me  aunufacmre  tf  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  saouth  of  the  wetL  of  20%  ofsuch  gas 
and  casinghead  gas;  (c)  To  pay  Lessor  on  all  other  minerals  mined  and  marketed  or  utilized  by  Lessee  front  said  land,  one-tenth  either  in  kind  or  vdue  at  the  well  or  miae 
at  Lessees  election,  except  that  on  sulpbar  mined  and  marketed  the  royalty  shall  be  one  dollar  (SI  , 00)  per  long  ton.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  prknary  term  or  at  any  time 
or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or  on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such 
weHs  are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for  so  long  as  said  wdls  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter 
mis  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred.  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  we  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals 
capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence.  Lessee  shaH  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities  other  man  well  facilities  and 
onftinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  sctue  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee.  If.  at 
any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of  ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on 
said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period.  Lessee  shell  pay  or  tender,  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee,  as  royalty,  a  sum  equal  to  one  doOar  ($1 .00)  for 
eadt  acre  of  land  then  covered  hereby.  Lessee  shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day  period  if 
upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.  Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties 
who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the  royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wdls  were  producing,  and  may  be  deposited  in  such  bank 
as  directed  by  Lessor,  or  its  successors,  which  shall  continue  as  the  depositories,  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  shut-m  royalty.  If  at  any  time  that  Lessee  pays  or 
tenders  shut-in  royalty,  two  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be.  entitled  to  receive  same.  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of  payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender 
such  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with  their  respective  <xwnerships  thereof,  as  Lessee 
may  elect  Any  payment  hereunder  may  be  made  by  check  or  draft  of  Lessee  deposited  in  the  mail  or  delivered  to  the  party  entitled  to  receive  payment  or  to  a  (tepcekory 
bank  provided  for  above  on  or  before  the  last  date  for  payment,  rooming  herein  shall  impair  Lessee's  right  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  m  the  event  of 
assignment  of  thb  tease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment  hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned 
by  each. 

4.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this  lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other 
lend,  tease,  or  leasee,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or  horizons,  so  as  to  establish  units  corrauning  not  more  than  80  surface  acres,  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance;  provided, 
however,  units  may  be  established  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  or  existing  units  may  be  enlarged  as  to  any  one  or  more  horizons,  so  as  to  contafci  not  more  than  640 
surface  acres  plus  10%  acreage  tolerance,  if  liiiutwl  toorw  cwrnore  ofthe  fdtowing:  (I)  gas,  other  than  casinghead  gas,  (2)  liquid  hydrocarbons  (condensate)  which  are  not 
liquids  in  the  subsurface  reservoir,  (3)  minerals  produced  from  wells  classified  as  gas  wdb  by  the  conservation  agency  having  jwisAction.  Should  governmental  authority 
having  jurisdiction  prescribe  or  permit  the  creation  of  units  larger  than  those  specified,  units  thereafter  created  may  conform  substantially  in  size  with  those  prescribed  or 
permitted  by  governmental  regulations.  Lessee  shall  exorcise  said  option  as  to  each  desired  unit  by  executing  an  irurtrument  identifying  such  unit  and  filing  it  for  record  in 
the  public  office  in  which  this  lease  is  recorded  Such  unit  shall  become  effective  as  of  the  date  provided  for  in  said  instrurnent  or  instruments  but  if  said  instrument  or 
instruments  make  no  such  provision,  then  such  unit  shall  become  effective  on  the  date  such  instrument  or  instrumentB  are  so  filed  of  record.  Each  of  said  options  may  be 
exercised  by  Lessee  at  any  time  and  from  tune  to  tone  while  this  lease  is  m  force,  and  whether  before  or  after  operations  or  production  has  been  established  either  on  said 
land,  or  on  the  portion  of  said  rand  included  in  the  unk,  or  on  other  land  unitized  therewith.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid  and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this 
lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within  the  unit  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on 
any  pan  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be  considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  tease.  There  shall  be 
allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit  if  this  lease  coven  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  that  proportion 
of  the  total  production  of  unitized  muxrals  from  the  unit,  after  deducting  any  used  in  tease  or  unit  ci>erations.  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each 
such  separate  tract)  covered  by  mis  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production  so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all 
pwposee,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any  other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  die  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the 
land  to  wru^  allocated  in  the  same  mar^  lease.  The  owiier  of  the  reversionary  estate  of  aa^ 

estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  well  on  the  unit  shaH  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production 
of  oil  or  gas. 


Tke  formation  of  my  unit  hereunder  which  include!  land  not  covered  by  this  tease  shall  not  have  die  effect  of  exchanging  or  traraferring  my  interest  under  this  tense 
(iocfoding,  without  limitation,  my  shut-in  royeity  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease)  between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties 
owning  interest*  in  land  not  covered  by  this  lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not  so 
release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operation  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  touts  are  released  «s  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while 
this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established  hereunder  by  filing  for  record  m  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at 
that  time  there  is  no  anitixed  minerals  being  produced  from  such  unit  Any  unit  formed  may  be  amended,  re-formed,  reduced  or  enlarged  by  Leasee  at  its  election  at  any 
time  and  from  time  to  time  after  the  original  forming  thereof  by  filing  an  appropriate  mstnunent  of  record  in  the  public  office  in  which  the  pooled  acreage  is  located 
Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once  established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease 
now  or  hereafter  coven  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  my  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  knplied  or  result  merely 
from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  mis  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  mis  paragraph  4  with  consequent 
allocation  of  production  as  herein  provided  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4.  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either 
as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

5.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  for  record  a  release  or  releases  of  this  lease  as  to  any  part  or  all  of  said  land  or 
of  any  mineral  or  horizon  thereunder,  and  thereby  be  relieved  of  all  obligations,  as  to  the  released  acreage  or  interest 

6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and/or  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drillshe  location  and/or 
access  road,  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  incompleting,  (fcepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repurmg  of  a  wdl  in  search  for  or  m  aa  endeavor  so 
obtain  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  me  use.  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  weBs,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all  operations  hereunder. 
Lessee  shall  nave  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw  and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled 
nearer  mm  200  feet  to  th*  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and 
timber  on  said  land. 

9.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  tine  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the  covenants,  obligations, 
and  considerations  of  this  lease  shall  extend  to  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns,  and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the 
ownership  of  said  land  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected,  shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but 
not  limited  to.  the  location  and  drilling  of  wefls  and  the  measurement  of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  conttroctive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to 
Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever 
effected  shall  be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of 
business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly  certified  copies  of  the  mstrurnents  which  have 
been  property  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court  records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be 
necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of  such  change  or  diva  ion.  If  my  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the 
owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender  such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above. 

9.  En  the  event  Lessor  considers  butt  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied.  Lessor  snail  notify  Lessee  in  writing, 
setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or 
comrnence  to  meet  aH  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for 
any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of 
any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the  alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  mat  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  ail  its  obligation* 
hereunder.  If  this  lease  is  canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (I)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are 
operations  to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage  to  be 
designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules  require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said 
land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such  easements  on  said  land  as  are  Mcessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained 
and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary  or  convenient  for  current  operations. 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and  interests  hereunder  shall  be 
charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  but  Lessor  agrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or 
reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  maturity,  and  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments 
payable  or  which  may  become  payable  to  Lessor  and/or  assigns  ander  this  lease.  If  this  lease  covers  a  toss  interest  in  the  oil.  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part 
of  said  land  than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  Interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  royalties  and  other  moneys 
accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  toss  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease, 
bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein.  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  toase  (whether  or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein 
provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without  regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor. 

11.  If  while  (his  toase  b  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  exptration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in  well  provisions  of 
paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  cperationg  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (I)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation,  (whether  or  not  subsequently  determined  to  be 
invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of  Lessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  snail  be  extended  until 
the  first  anniversary  date  heieof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  toase  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations 
as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred 

12.  Lessor  agrees  mat  mis  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  aH  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  welKs)  and/or  wellbore(i)  on  said  land,  other  than  existing 
water  wells,  and  for  all  parposes  of  this  toase  the  re-entry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  welfbore  shaU  be  deemed  the  same  as  the  drilling  of  a  new  well 

13.  Notwithstanding  arrything  to  the  cootrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Leasee  giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which 
has  been  drilled  and  Lessee  intends  to  fine  shall  be  deemed  a  wcB  capable  of  producing  ia  paying  quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  sfaat-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling 
cferatiofis  are  completed 

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth 
in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface 
location^)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  or^renons.  Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  said  land  or  other 
leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  flu*  aay  such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  in  accordance 
with  this  lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  said  land  or 
lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  said  land.  Nothing  contained  fa  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any 
surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  m  this  base,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEW30F,  this  ianm^^CMCu^mtl^^fim^b^vnHm. 


Thomas  Wade  Greece 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


STATE  OF 


) 


by  Trromas  Wftdc  CrfO 


isd. 


dealing  in  his  sttU  mid  Mrwrate 


Netary*  name  (printed): 
Notary's  commission  expires: 


993S  0KUB 


:  -,  -ygr  .  =   t  ■  wi*".,  jiam  ui  icx, 

My  Comrr»ssion  Expires 
Jonuoiy  11. 2012 


