Page  1  of  2 


Electronically  Recorded  Tarrant  County  Texas 

Official  Public  Records  1 0/7/2009 1 :46  PM  Q2Q926Zia3_ 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  A  NATURAL  PERSON  MAY  REMOVE  OR 
STRIKE  AKS3&gg&fel^-T  IT  IS  FILED 

IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:    YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

XTO  REV  PROD  B8  (7-69)  PAID  UP  (04/17/07)B 

OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

THIS  AGREEMENT  made  this  7th  day  of  October,  2009,  between  Jose  Ortiz,  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  addressis! 5717  Frisco  Ave, 
Fort  Worth,  TX,  761 10,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  whose  address  is:  810  Houston  St.,  Fort  Vtorth,  Texas  76102,  Lessee,  WTNESSETH: 


Lessor  in  consideration  often  dollars  and  other  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  a^no»M^^  an 


agreements 

exclusive  right  of  exptonng,  drillii 
those  mentToned),  together  with 


ed,  and  of  the  covenants  and 
le  purposes  and  with  the 


no  rtrinc lardoperatinq  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  sulphur  and  all  other  minerals  (whether  or  not  simijarto 

Tarrant,  State  of  Texas,  and  Is  described  as  folows: 

Being  the  North  50'  of  the  East  one-half  (1/2)  of  Block  M,  Sili/er  Uke  Addition  to  the  Xlty  of  Fort  Worth,  Tarrant  Count/,  Texas, 
accorting  to  the  plat  recorded  in  Volume  204.  Page  36.  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 


payment  Nothing  herein  sh^l  impair  l^see  s  right  to  ^  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

Sr  In  part,  liability^  payment  t55ffind?UlW  Km  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease. 

5.  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  ngh ^ at M  opton U>  ^nZ^Y^^so^StSk>\\sY\  units  containing  not  more  than  60  surface  acres, 

shall  become  effectrye  on  the !  date  such Mratrunwtor  '^^Sheftefore or  SftSopenSS  w reduction  has  been  established  either jaisaid 


limitation,  any  shut-in  royatty  which  may  k^St  ^  i  rt  frr^S^nahf  o  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof, 

parties  owning  interests  fn  tend  not  covered I  bv MHhia please  Netfrersha  ™gSJ«  ^e^n  for  unttizld  mmerals  unless  aMed  leases 


d  minerals  unless  alfpooled  leases 
established  hereunder  by  filingfor 
tized  minerals  being  produced  from 
time  and  from  time  to  time  after  ihe 
I  acreage  is  located.  Subject  to  the 


Page  2  of  2 


6.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  any  of  the  following:  preparing  the  drtlsrte  location  or  access 
road,  drilSng,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  sidetracking,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an 
endeavorto  obtain  pjodudion  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  minerals,  excavating  a  mine,  production  of  oil,  gas,  sulphur  or  other  mineral,  whether  or 
not  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  water,  other  than  from  Lessor's  water  wells,  and  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  all  machinery  and  fixtures  placed  on  said  land,  including  the  right  to  draw 
and  remove  casing.  No  well  shall  be  drilled  nearer  than  200  feet  to  the  house  or  bam  now  on  said  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Lessor.  Lessee 
shall  pay  for  damages  caused  by  its  operations  to  growing  crops  and  timber  on  said  land. 

8.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  All  of  the 
covenants,  obligations,  and  considerations  of  this  lease  shallextend  Id  and  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  heirs,  successors,  assigns, 
and  successive  assigns.  No  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land,  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  any  part  thereof,  howsoever  effected, 
shall  increase  the  obligations  or  diminish  the  rights  of  Lessee,  including,  but  not  limited  to  the  location  and  drilling  of  welts  and  the  measurement 
of  production.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or  constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no 
change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  land  or  of  the  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall 
be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until  sixty  (60)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal 
pJace  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors,  or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly 
certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly  filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court 
records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall  be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of 
such  change  or  division.  If  any  such  change  in  ownership  occurs  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  owner,  Lessee  may,  nevertheless  pay  or  tender 
such  royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  part  thereof,  to  the  credit  of  the  decedent  in  a  depository  bank  provided  for  above.  ..... 

9.  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both  express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify 
Lessee  in  wrirjng[  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this  contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt 
of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all  or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be 
precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action  by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shali  be  brought  unbl  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days 
after  service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all  or  any  of  the 
alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its  obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is 
canceled  for  any  cause,  rt  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1)  sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations 
to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit  under  applicable  Governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  that  forty  acres),  such  acreage 
to  be  designated  by  Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  fhe  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations.  Lessee  shall  also  have  such^semente  on  said  land 
as  are  necessary  to  operations  on  the  acreage  so  retained  and  shall  not  be  required  to  move  or  remove  any  existing  surface  facilities  necessary 
or  convenient  for  current  operations.  .  .      «  ,.  ,  .       .   .  , 

10.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  said  land  against  the  claims  of  all  persons  whomsoever.  Lessor's  rights  and 
interests  hereunder  shall  be  charged  primarily  with  any  mortgages,  taxes  or  other  liens,  or  interest  and  other  charges  on  said  land,  put  Lessor 
aqrees  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  pay  or  reduce  same  for  Lessor,  either  before  or  after  matunty,  and  be  surrogated  to  the 
rights  of  the  holder  thereof  and  to  deduct  amounts  so  paid  from  royalties  or  other  payments  payable  or  which  may  become ^payable  to i  Lessor 
and/or  assiqns  under  this  tease.  If  this  tease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  ort,  gas,  sulphur,  or  other  minerals  in  all  or  any  part  of  sad  land  than  the 
entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  Lessor's  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein,  then  the  realties  and  other 
moneys  accruinq  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall  be  paid  only  in  the  prcpofton  which  the  interest 
therein,  if  any,  covered  by  fris  lease,  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  therein  All  royalty  interest  covered  by  this  lease  fruntther 
or  not  owned  by  Lessor)  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  royalty  herein  provided.  This  lease  shall  be  binding  upon  each  party  who  executes  it  without 
regard  to  whether  it  is  executed  by  all  those  named  herein  as  Lessor.  ^««.*u*i» 

1 1 .  If,  while  this  tease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  (he  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not  being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in 
well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting  operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  ruje  or  regulation, 
(whether  or  not  subsequentty  determined  to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar  (except  financial) .beyond  the 
reasonable  control  ofUessee,  the  primary  term  hereof  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occumng  ninety  (90)  or  more 
days  following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had  not  occurred. 

1 2.  Lessor  agrees  that  this  lease  covers  and  includes  any  and  all  of  Lessor's  rights  in  and  to  any  existing  well{s)  and/or  wellbore(s)  on  said 
land,  otheMhan  existing  water  wells,  and  for  aU  purposes  of  this  lease  the  reentry  and  use  by  Lessee  of  any  existing  well  and/or  wellbore  shall  be 

deemed  ^os™  *J n^a^hing^tr^contrary  contained  in  this  lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which  may  be  exercised  by  Lessee 
oivinq  notice  to  Lessor  a  well  which  has  been  dnlled  and  Lessee  intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying 

quantities  and  the  date  such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed.   

14.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  said  land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding  well  sites,  and/or surface 
restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  ocations  for  well  srtes  in  tne  vicinity  may ^e  hm  ted 
and  Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  locations)  for  drilling  .reworking  or  other  operations  it^SS^hSSn^nA 
reworkina  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  a  owed  on  said  land  or  other  leases  m  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such 
Rations rod^  atTarffece  location  off  of  said  land  or  off  of  Ms  with  which  said  land  are  pooled  .nj ; ^rdance "^^jgf . 
provSed  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of  drilling,  reworking, producing  or .other  operations 
under  safi  land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations  oondtart  or >  "Jlfl^ihtafl!? 
contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this  lease, 

except ^as  ,«I™«{Y d  understood  that  ^9re  $haj  be  no  drilling  activities  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises l^^^P^ 
written Tpermissim  from  the  surface  owner  of  the  applicable  portion  of  the  leased  premises.  Nota  hstandmg  tr»^«ng,  this  waiyer  of 
surface  shal  i Sot  be  construed  as  a  waiver  of  the  rights  of  Lessee  to  utilize  the  subsurface  of  the  teased  P<™;>£  <£^£"  KSTuSSk 
LBssee  sha  have  the  riqht  to  exploit,  explore  for,  develop  and  produce  oil.  gas  andtfher  covered  minerals  under  this  lease  from  wells 
from  turface  localions  iff  ffie  leased  premises,  including,  but  notlimited  to  directional  or  horizontal  dnHing £^^tS^^S^ 
sXce  of  the  leased  premises.  This  drilling  surface  warver  does  not  apply  to  any  surface  nghts  associated  with  instruments  other  than 
this  lease. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 
LESSOR(S) 

2a^ 


STATE  OF 


§ 

§  ss. 


(ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 


COUNTY  OF  ^OT^LrvV—  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the^Y^dav  of  Sepfapk&f — .  20J*1  °y 


Notary  Pul 


My  commission  e> 
Seal: 


Signature 

~"  Public 
Printed     T^xtpA  |^^La^- 


^REODiHlfUESULH 

Notwy  Public  State  olTexfl 
My  Commission  Expires 


