Page  1  of  3 


Tarrant  County  Texas 
1 0/1 6/2009 1 2:41  PM  D209276099 

PGS     3  $24.00 
Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 

FIRST  AMENDMENT  OF  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 

STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

WHEREAS,  Willie  J.  Rankin  ("Lessor")  whose  address  is  6745  Manor  Drive,  North 
Richland  Hills,  Texas  76180,  executed  an  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (the  "Lease")  dated  September  14, 
2006,  which  is  recorded  as  Instrument  No.  D2063  82026  in  the  Official  Records  of  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  in  favor  of  XTO  Energy  Inc.  ("Lessee")  covering  the  following  land  (the 
"Land"): 

7.95  acres,  more  or  less,  out  of  the  Jesse  Russell  Survey,  A-l  361,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas,  being  known  as  Tract  5,  and  being  those  same  lands  more 
particularly  described  in  Volume  6787,  Page  1031,  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

WHERERAS,  Lessor  and  Lessee  desire  to  amend  the  Lease  as  set  forth  herein. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  $10.00  and  other  good  and  valuable  consideration,  the  receipt 
and  sufficiency  of  which  are  hereby  acknowledged,  Lessor  and  Lessee  hereby  agree  that  the 
Lease  is  hereby  amended  as  follows: 

It  is  agreed  and  understood  that  wherever  the  designation  "23%"  appears  in  paragraph 
three  (3)  hereof,  the  same  shall  be  deleted  and  the  designation  "25%"  shall  be  substituted 
therefore. 

Where  it  now  reads  "320  surface  acres"  in  paragraph  four  (4)  is  amended  to  now  read 
"430  surface  acres". 

The  following  language  shall  be  added  to  the  Lease:  Lessor's  royalty  shall  be  calculated 
free  and  clear  of  costs  and  expenses  for  exploration,  drilling,  development  and 
production,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  dehydration,  storage,  compression,  separation 
by  mechanical  means  and  product  stabilization,  incurred  prior  to  the  oil,  gas  and  other 
mineral  production  leaving  the  leased  premises  or  prior  to  delivery  into  a  pipeline  or 
gathering  system,  whichever  occurs  first;  provided,  however,  (a)  Lessee  shall  have  free 
use  of  produced  oil  and  gas  for  operations  conducted  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith,  and  the  royalties  on  oil  and  gas  herein  provided  shall  be  computed  after 
deducting  any  so  used,  and  (b)  Lessor's  royalty  shall  bear  its  proportionate  share  of  all  ad 
valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance  and  other  taxes  and  the  actual,  reasonable  costs 
(including  compression  and  related  fuel  charges)  paid  to  or  deducted  by  a  third  party  to 
transport,  compress,  stabilize,  process  or  treat  the  oil,  gas  and  other  mineral  production 
off  the  leased  premises  in  order  to  make  the  oil,  gas  and  other  mineral  production 
saleable,  increase  its  value  or  in  order  to  get  the  oil,  gas  and  other  mineral  production  to  a 
market. 


Electronically  Recorded 

Official  Public  Records 


Suzanne  Henderson 


1 


Page  2  of  3 


Lessor  and  Lessee  hereby  adopt,  ratify  and  confirm  the  Lease  as  to  all  of  the  terms  and 
provisions  therein,  as  amended  by  this  Amendment  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  and  for  the 
same  consideration,  Lessor  does  hereby  lease,  grant,  demise  and  let  the  interest  of  Lessor  in  the 
Land  covered  by  the  Lease,  as  amended  by  this  Amendment  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  unto 
Lessee,  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  in  accordance  with  all  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  the 
Lease,  as  amended  by  this  Amendment  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease. 

Except  as  amended  by  this  Amendment  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease,  the  Lease  is  and 
remains  in  full  force  and  effect  as  originally  written. 

This  Amendment  of  Oil,  Gas  and  Mineral  Lease  is  executed  this  13*    day  of  October, 

2009. 

LESSOR: 

PA  ^  ^^-^ 


Timothy     Rankin,  individually  and  as 

Executor  onhe  Estate  of  Willie  J.  Rankin,  deceased 


LESSEE: 

XTO  ENERGY  INC. 


Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr.  x 
Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  Administration 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  /J^  day  of  October,  2009,  by 
Timothy  G.  Rankin,  individually  and  as  Executor  of  the  Estate  of  Willie  J.  Rankin,  deceased. 


GEORGE  0.  DIETRICH 
Notary  Futile.  Stare  of  Texas 
My  Con-rnssston  Expires 

October  21,  2009 


Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


2 


Page  3  of  3 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  this  (3  day  of  October,  2009,  by 
Edwin  S.  Ryan,  Jr.,  Senior  Vice  President  -  Land  Administration  of  XTO  Energy  Inc.,  a 
Delaware  corporation,  on  behalf  of  said  corporation. 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


3 


