Page  1  of  12 


Electronically  Recorded  Tarrant  County  Texas 

Official  Public  Records  1 0/20/2009  3:54  PM  D209278940 
 -   /    PGS    12  $60.00 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON, 
YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING 
INFORMATION  FROM  ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN 
REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS: 
YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 

(No  Surface  Use;  Paid  Up  Lease) 

This  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (this  "Lease")  is  made  on  October  13,  2008  between  Stephen  D, 
Johnson  and  Bonnie  J.  Johnson,  a  married  couple  (hereafter  called  "Lessor"),  whose 
address  is  501  Evergreen  Dr,  Hurst,  Texas.  76054,  and  XTO  Energy  Inc.  (hereafter 
called  "Lessee"),  whose  address  is  810  Houston  Street  Fort  Worth,  TX.  76102  . 

1.  Grant.  In  consideration  of  Ten  Dollars  and  other  consideration  in  hand  paid,  Lessor 
grants  and  leases  exclusively  unto  Lessee  the  land  described  in  attached  Exhibit  A  (the  "Land") 
in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling,  and  producing  oil  and  gas, 
and  to  produce,  save  and  transport  oil  and  gas  and  other  products  manufactured  from  oil  and  gas 
produced  from  the  Land,  but  only  as  to  depths  below  1,000  feet  beneath  the  surface  of  the 
ground.  This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  any  interest  which  Lessor  may  own  in  any  street, 
alley,  highway,  railroad,  canal,  river,  body  of  water,  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  Land,  whether 
the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys,  although  not  included  within  the 
boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 

2.  Primary  Term.  This  Lease  is  for  a  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  this  date  (called 
"Primary  Term")  and  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land,  or  lands  pooled 
therewith,  in  paying  quantities. 

3.  Minerals  Covered.  This  Lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas"  means 
oil,  gas,  and  other  liquid  and  gaseous  hydrocarbons  and  their  constituent  elements  produced 
through  a  well  bore.  All  other  substances  and  minerals  (including  water)  are  excepted  from  this 
Lease  and  reserved  to  Lessor. 

4.  Royalty. 

(a)      As  royalties,  Lessee  agrees: 

(1)  To  pay  to  Lessor,  on  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and 
saved  from  the  Land,  25%  (the  "Royalty  Fraction")  of  the  market  value  at  the  point  of  sale  of 
such  oil,  or  at  Lessor's  option,  which  may  be  exercised  from  time  to  time,  the  Royalty  Fraction 
of  all  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons  produced  and  saved  from  the  Land,  which  shall  be 
delivered  free  of  expense  to  Lessor  at  the  wells  or  to  the  credit  of  Lessor  at  the  pipeline  to  which 
the  wells  may  be  connected. 

(2)  To  pay  to  Lessor: 

(i)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  and  sold  by  Lessee  or  used  off  the 
Land  and  to  which  the  following  subparagraphs  (ii)  and  (iii)  do  not  apply, 
the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  at  the  point  of  sale,  use  or  other 
disposition,  less  the  deductions  authorized  in  subparagraph  4(c)  below. 

(ii)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  that  is  processed  in  a  processing 
plant  in  which  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a  direct  or  indirect 
interest,  the  higher  of  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  the  gas 
at  the  inlet  to  the  processing  plant,  or  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market 
value  of  all  processed  liquids  saved  from  the  gas  at  the  plant  plus  the 
Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  all  residue  gas  at  the  point  of  sale, 
use,  or  other  disposition,  less  the  deductions  authorized  in  subparagraph 
4(c)  below. 


Page  2  of  12 


(iii)  On  gas  produced  from  the  Land  that  is  processed  in  facilities  other 
than  a  processing  plant  in  which  Lessee  or  an  affiliate  of  Lessee  has  a 
direct  or  indirect  interest,  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  at  the 
plant  of  all  processed  liquids  credited  to  the  account  of  Lessee  and 
attributable  to  the  gas  plus  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  all 
residue  gas  at  the  point  of  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition,  less  the 
deductions  authorized  in  subparagraph  4(c)  below. 

(b)  The  market  value  of  gas  will  be  determined  at  the  specified  location  by  reference 
to  the  gross  heating  value  (measured  in  British  thermal  units)  and  quality  of  the  gas.  The  market 
value  used  in  the  calculation  of  oil  and  gas  royalty  will  never  be  less  than  the  proceeds  received 
by  Lessee  in  connection  with  the  sale,  use,  or  other  disposition  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced  or  sold. 
For  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  if  Lessee  receives  from  a  purchaser  of  oil  or  gas  any 
reimbursement  for  all  or  any  part  of  severance  or  production  taxes,  or  if  Lessee  realizes  proceeds 
of  production  after  deduction  for  any  expense  of  production,  gathering,  dehydration,  separation, 
compression,  transportation,  treatment,  processing,  storage,  marketing,  or  remediation,  then  the 
reimbursement  or  the  deductions  will  be  added  to  the  proceeds  received  by  Lessee  except  as  set 
forth  in  subparagraph  4(c)  below  .  Royalty  will  be  payable  on  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the 
Land  and  consumed  by  Lessee  on  the  Land  for  compression,  dehydration,  fuel,  or  other  use. 

(c)  Except  as  permitted  herein,  it  is  agreed  between  the  Lessor  and  Lessee,  that, 
notwithstanding  any  language  herein  to  the  contrary,  all  oil,  gas  or  other  proceeds  accruing  to  the 
Lessor  under  this  Lease  or  by  state  law  shall  be  without  deduction  for  the  cost  of  producing, 
gathering,  storing,  separating,  treating,  dehydrating,  compressing,  processing,  transporting,  and 
marketing  the  oil,  gas  and  other  products  produced  hereunder  to  transform  the  product  into 
marketable  form.  Further,  in  no  event  shall  Lessor  receive  a  price  that  is  less  than  the  price 
received  by  Lessee  from  an  arms-length  contract  with  a  purchaser  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of 
Lessee.  It  is  the  specific  intent  of  the  parties  to  this  Lease  that  this  provision  is  to  be  treated  as 
enforceable  as  written  and  is  not  to  be  deemed  "surplusage"  under  the  principals  set  forth  in 
Heritage  Resources  v.  Nations  Bank,  939  S.W.2d  118  (Tex.  1997).  Notwithstanding  the 
foregoing,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear  its  share  of  all  severance  and  productions  taxes  and  if  a 
third  party,  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  compresses,  transports,  processes,  or  treats  gas 
produced  from  the  Land  to  receive  a  better  price,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear  its  proportionate 
share  of  the  additional  costs  and  expenses  associated  therewith,  even  if  such  third  party  charges 
are  passed  through  an  affiliate  of  Lessee. 

(d)  If  gas  produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith  is  sold  by  Lessee 
pursuant  to  an  arms-length  contract  with  a  purchaser  that  is  not  an  affiliate  of  Lessee,  and  for  a 
term  no  longer  than  that  which  is  usual  and  customary  in  the  industry  at  the  time  the  contract  is 
made,  then  the  market  value  of  the  gas  sold  pursuant  to  the  contract  shall  be  the  total  proceeds 
received  by  Lessee  in  the  sale,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  4(b)  above. 

(e)  Lessor  shall  be  paid  the  Royalty  Fraction  of  all  payments  and  other  benefits  made 
under  any  oil  or  gas  sales  contract  or  other  arrangement,  including  take-or-pay  payments  and 
payments  received  in  settlement  of  disputes;  provided  that  if  Lessor  receives  a  take-or-pay 
payment  or  similar  payment  for  gas  that  has  not  been  produced,  and  if  the  gas  is  subsequently 
produced,  Lessor  will  receive  only  its  Royalty  Fraction  of  the  market  value  of  the  volume  of  gas 
for  which  payment  has  not  already  been  made, 

(f)  Unless  there  is  a  reasonable  title  dispute,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be 
disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  from  a  particular  well  not  later  than  120  days  after 
the  end  of  the  month  of  first  sales  of  production.  Thereafter,  Lessee  must  disburse  or  cause  to  be 
disbursed  to  Lessor  its  royalty  on  production  by  the  last  day  of  the  second  month  after  the  month 
in  which  production  is  sold.  If  not  paid  when  due,  Lessor's  royalty  will  bear  interest  at  Eighteen 
Percent  (18%)  annual  from  due  date  until  paid,  which  amount  Lessee  agrees  to  pay.  Acceptance 
by  Lessor  of  royalties  that  are  past  due  will  not  act  as  a  waiver  or  estoppel  of  its  right  to  receive 
interest  due  thereon  unless  Lessor  expressly  so  provides  in  writing  signed  by  Lessor.  The  royalty 
payment  obligations  under  this  Lease  shall  not  be  affected  by  any  division  order  or  the 
provisions  of  the  Section  91 .402  of  the  Texas  Natural  Resources  Code  or  any  similar  statute. 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  Lease,  should  a  royalty  payment  not 
be  made  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  anniversary  date  of  the  due  date  as  provided  for  in  this 
Lease,  unless  there  is  then  in  effect  another  applicable  preservation  provision  of  this  Lease, 
Lessor  may,  at  Lessor's  option,  elect  to  terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this  Lease  by  sending 


Page  3  of  12 


written  notice  to  Lessee  by  certified  mail.  Lessee  shall  then  have  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  date 
of  service  of  such  written  notice  in  which  to  avoid  termination  of  the  applicable  portion  this 
Lease  by  making  or  causing  to  be  made  the  proper  royalty  payment.  If  such  royalty  payment  is 
not  made  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  said  90  day  period,  or  written  approval  is  not  obtained 
from  Lessor  to  defer  such  payment,  Lessor  may  elect  to  terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this 
Lease  by  filing  a  Notice  of  Termination  with  the  County  Clerk  in  the  county  where  the  Land  is 
located.  The  effective  date  of  said  termination  shall  be  the  date  said  Notice  of  Termination  is 
filed  with  the  said  County  Clerk. 

(g)  As  used  in  this  Lease,  "affiliate"  means  (i)  a  corporation,  joint  venture, 
partnership,  or  other  entity  that  owns  more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest  of 
Lessee  or  in  which  Lessee  owns  more  than  ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interest:  or  (ii)  a 
corporation,  joint  venture,  partnership,  or  other  entity  in  which,  together  with  Lessee,  more  than 
ten  percent  of  the  outstanding  voting  interests  of  both  Lessee  and  the  other  corporation,  joint 
venture,  partnership,  or  other  entity  is  owned  or  controlled  by  the  same  persons  or  group  of 
persons. 

(h)  The  receipt  by  Lessee  from  a  purchaser  or  a  pipeline  company  of  proceeds  of 
production  for  distribution  to  Lessor  will  not  result  in  Lessee  acquiring  legal  or  equitable  title  to 
those  proceeds,  but  Lessee  will  at  all  times  hold  Lessor's  share  of  those  proceeds  for  the  benefit 
of  Lessor.  Notwithstanding  the  insolvency,  bankruptcy,  or  other  business  failure  of  a  purchaser 
of  production  from  the  Land  or  pipeline  company  transporting  production  from  the  Land,  Lessee 
will  remain  liable  for  payment  to  Lessor  for,  and  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  all  royalties  due  Lessor 
together  with  interest  if  not  timely  paid. 

(i)  If  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land,  and  if  (either  because  this  Lease  covers  less 
than  all  of  the  gas  or  other  substances  in  and  under  the  Land  or  because  of  assignments  by  Lessee 
of  undivided  interests  in  this  Lease)  more  than  one  party  owns  the  working  interest  share  of  the 
gas  produced,  and  if  any  or  all  of  such  co-owners  elect  to  take  and  market  their  share  of  such  gas 
separately,  resulting  in  "split-stream"  deliveries  of  such  gas  to  different  purchasers,  then  the 
following  shall  apply: 

(1)  Lessor  shall  be  entitled  to  Lessor's  royalty  share  (proportionately  reduced, 
as  herein  provided,  if  Lessor  owns  less  than  all  the  applicable  gas  and/or  other 
substances  under  the  Land)  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  the  entire  production  of 
the  gas  produced  from  the  Land,  regardless  of  how  such  gas  is  allocated  among 
the  working  interest  owners  or  to  whom  such  gas  is  sold,  and  regardless  of  any 
agreements  to  the  contrary  among  the  working  interest  owners  or  other  parties; 
and 

(2)  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  shall  be  liable  for  Lessor's  entire 
royalty  on  such  gas  production,  regardless  of  whether  Lessee  actually  is  allocated 
or  receives  any  proceeds  of  sale  of  any  such  production.  Lessee  shall  account  to 
Lessor  for  all  of  Lessor's  royalty  share  of  such  gas  production,  so  that  Lessor  shall 
not  be  required  to  receive  royalties  from  more  than  one  purchaser  or  working 
interest  owner,  and  Lessee  shall  provide  production  statements  from  all 
purchasers  of  such  gas  showing  the  volumes  sold  and  the  price  paid  therefore,  and 
any  applicable  adjustments. 

5.  Shut-in  Royalty.  After  the  Primary  Term,  or  any  time  thereafter,  if  there  is  a  gas  well  on 
this  Lease  or  on  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities,  but  gas  is 
not  being  sold  for  a  period  of  sixty  (60)  consecutive  days,  and  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise  being 
maintained,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  in  advance  an  annual  shut-in  royalty  of  $100.00  per  net 
mineral  acre  then  covered  by  this  Lease.  Payment  with  respect  to  a  well  will  be  due  within  60 
days  after  the  later  of  (i)  the  date  the  well  is  shut-in,  or  (ii)  the  date  this  Lease  is  not  otherwise 
being  maintained.  Thereafter,  while  such  well  remains  shut-in,  Lessee  shall  make  like  shut-in 
payments  or  tenders  at  annual  intervals  on  or  before  the  anniversary  of  the  date  the  first  payment 
is  due.  While  shut-in  royalty  payments  are  timely  and  properly  paid,  this  Lease  shall  be 
considered  as  producing  in  paying  quantities  for  all  purposes  of  this  Lease.  The  obligation  of 
Lessee  to  pay  shut-in  royalty  is  a  condition  and  not  a  covenant.  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty 
under  this  paragraph  may  be  made  by  the  check  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to  the  parties 
entitled  thereto  on  or  before  the  due  date.  Lessee  may  exercise  its  right  to  make  shut-in  royalty 
payments  as  provided  for  herein  from  time  to  time.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the 


Page  4  of  12 


contrary,  this  Lease  shall  not  be  maintained  by  shut-in  royalty  payments  for  periods  totaling 
more  than  three  (3)  years  of  cumulative  time. 

Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  Lease,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  which 
may  be  exercised  by  Lessee  giving  notice  to  Lessor,  a  well  which  has  been  drilled  and  Lessee 
intends  to  frac  shall  be  deemed  a  well  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  and  the  date 
such  well  is  shut-in  shall  be  when  the  drilling  operations  are  completed. 

Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  contained  in  this  Lease,  should  a  shut-in  royalty 
payment  not  be  properly  made  in  a  timely  manner  as  provided  for  in  this  Lease,  unless  there  is 
then  in  effect  another  applicable  preservation  provision  of  this  Lease,  Lessor  may,  at  Lessor's 
option,  elect  to  terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this  Lease  by  sending  written  notice  to  Lessee 
by  certified  mail.  Lessee  shall  then  have  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of  service  of  such  written 
notice  in  which  to  avoid  termination  of  the  applicable  portion  this  Lease  by  making  or  causing  to 
be  made  the  proper  shut-in  royalty  payment.  If  such  shut-in  royalty  payment  is  not  made  on  or 
before  the  expiration  of  said  30  day  period,  or  written  approval  is  not  obtained  from  Lessor  to 
defer  such  payment,  Lessor  may  elect  to  terminate  the  applicable  portion  of  this  Lease  by  filing  a 
Notice  of  Termination  with  the  County  Clerk  in  the  county  where  the  Landis  located.  The 
effective  date  of  said  termination  shall  be  the  date  said  Notice  of  Termination  is  filed  with  the 
said  County  Clerk. 

6.  Continuous  Operations.  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil  or  gas  is  not  being 
produced  from  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith,  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  operations  (as 
defined  below)  on  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  herewith,  or  shall  have  completed  a  dry  hole  thereon 
within  60  days  prior  to  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term,  the  Lease  will  not  terminate  but  will  remain 
in  effect  for  so  long  thereafter  as  operations  on  said  well  or  any  additional  well  are  carried  out 
with  due  diligence  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  ninety  (90)  days,  and  if  the  operations  result  in 
the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long  thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land  or  from 
land  pooled  therewith.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations"  means  operations 
for  any  of  the  following:  drilling,  testing,  completing,  reworking,  recomputing,  deepening, 
plugging  back,  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  the  endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil 
or  gas.  Further,  the  term  "production"  in  this  Lease  means  production  in  paying  quantities.  If, 
after  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  and  after  oil  and  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land,  or  from 
land  pooled  therewith,  the  production  thereof  should  cease  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  shall  not 
terminate  if  Lessee  commences  operations  within  60  days  after  the  cessation  of  such  production, 
but  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  so  long  as  such  operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation 
of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  so  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land,  or  from  land  pooled  therewith. 

7.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the 
Land  or  interest  therein  with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as 
to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  Lease,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of 
production  or  operations,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to 
prudently  develop  or  operate  the  Land,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with 
respect  to  such  other  lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is 
not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  40  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%, 
and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed 
or  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the 
foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable 
law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so  prescribed,  "oil  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24- 
hour  production  test  conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator 
facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and  the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  an  oil  or 
gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the  reservoir 
exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall 
file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling. 
Production  or  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land  shall  be 
treated  as  if  it  were  production  or  operations  on  the  Land,  except  that  the  production  on  which 
Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  total 
net  acreage  covered  by  this  Lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  surface  acreage  in  the 


Page  5  of  12 


unit  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and 
Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder 
by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after  commencement  of  production,  in  order 
to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by 
such  governmental  authority.  Further,  in  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  revised  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the 
extent  any  portion  of  the  Land  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision, 
the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall  thereafter  be 
adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon 
permanent  cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written 
declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not 
constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests.  If  this  Lease  now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts, 
no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interest  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or 
shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  Lease  but 
Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  as  provided  above  with  consequent  allocation  of 
production  as  above  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any 
tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that 
as  to  any  other  part  of  the  Land. 

Royalties  shall  be  computed  on  the  portion  of  production  allocated  to  the  Land.  No  part 
of  the  Land  may  be  included  in  a  pooled  unit  unless  all  of  the  Land  is  included  in  said  pooled 
unit. 

Lessee  will  not  implement  any  re-pressuring,  pressure  maintenance,  recycling  or 
secondary  recovery  operations  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor,  which  shall  be  at 
Lessor's  sole  discretion. 

8.  Offset  Wells.  This  offset  obligation  shall  go  into  effect  one  (1)  year  after  the  effective 
date  of  this  Lease  and  shall  not  apply  to  any  well  drilled  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  this  Lease. 
If  the  nearest  bottom-hole  producing  perforations  in  a  well  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  or 
other  hydrocarbons  in  paying  quantities  should  hereafter  be  completed  within  three  hundred 
thirty  (330)  feet  of  the  Land  then,  within  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  offsetting  well 
continuously  produces  in  paying  quantities  for  sixty  (60)  consecutive  days  (but  subject  to 
Paragraph  1 1  hereof),  Lessee  shall  commence  operations  for  and  thereafter  diligently  prosecute 
the  drilling  of  an  offset  well  at  a  permitted  location  which  is  reasonably  designed  to  protect  the 
Land  from  drainage.  Lessee's  obligation  to  drill  under  this  paragraph  shall  not  apply  if  the  40 
acres  nearest  the  offsetting  well  as  to  the  formation  in  which  the  offsetting  well  is  producing  is 
already  included  within  a  pooled  unit  or  proration  unit  as  determined  by  Lessee.  Lessor  and 
Lessee  agree  that  this  offset  provision  shall  supersede  and  replace  any  implied  obligations  of 
Lessee  to  protect  against  drainage  during  the  Primary  Term  of  this  Lease  and  after  the  Primary 
Term  (if  perpetuated),  whether  or  not  Lessee  is  the  operator  or  an  interest  owner  as  to  any 
offsetting  well 

9.  NO  SURFACE  OPERATIONS/  OFFSITE  OPERATIONS. 
NOTWITHSTANDING  ANY  LANGUAGE  CONTAINED  HEREIN  TO  THE 
CONTRARY,  LESSEE  HEREBY  WAIVES  AND  RELEASES  ALL  SURFACE  RIGHTS 
OF  EVERY  KIND  AND  NATURE  ACQUIRED  UNDER  THIS  LEASE,  IF  ANY,  OTHER 
THAN  THE  RIGHT  TO  SURVEY  DURING  THE  PRIMARY  TERM.  ACCORDINGLY, 
LESSEE  SHALL  NOT  (I)  CONDUCT  ANY  SURFACE  OPERATIONS  WHATSOEVER 
UPON  THE  LAND,  (II)  PLACE  ANY  PERSONAL  PROPERTY,  FIXTURES  OR 
EQUIPMENT  UPON  THE  LAND,  OR  (HI)  ENTER  UPON  THE  SURFACE  OF  THE 
LAND  FOR  ANY  REASON  OR  FOR  ANY  AMOUNT  OF  TIME;  HOWEVER,  THIS 
LIMITATION  SHALL  NOT  AFFECT  THE  RIGHT  OF  LESSEE  OR  ITS  SUCCESSORS 
AND  ASSIGNS  TO  ENTER  THE  LAND  FOR  SURVEYING  OR  UTILIZE  THE 
SUBSURFACE  OF  THE  LAND  OR  ENGAGE  IN  DIRECTIONAL  OR  HORIZONTAL 
DRILLING  ACTIVITIES  OR  OPERATIONS  WHICH  COMES  UNDER  THE  LAND 
AND/OR  FROM  POOLING  IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  THIS  LEASE,  BUT  IN  NO 
EVENT  MAY  THE  MINING  OR  DRILLING  ACTIVITIES  OR  OPERATIONS 
PENETRATE  THE  LAND  AT  A  DEPTH  OF  LESS  THAN  1,000  FEET  BELOW  THE 
SURFACE.  FURTHER,  LESSEE  WILL  MEET  ALL  CITY  ORDINANCES  IN  THE 
DRILLING  OF  WELLS  FROM  SURFACE  LOCATIONS  THAT  OFFSET  THE  LAND, 
BUT  IN  NO  EVENT  SHALL  LESSEE  DRILL  A  WELL  AT  A  SURFACE  LOCATION 


Page  6  of  12 


THAT  IS  WITHIN  300  FEET  OF  THE  LAND.  THIS  PROVISION  SHALL  SURVIVE 
TERMINATION  OF  THE  LEASE. 

As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Land,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances 
regarding  well  sites,  and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  Lease  and/or  other 
leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and  Lessee 
may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations. 
Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either  restricted  or  not  allowed  on  the 
Land  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface 
location  off  of  the  Land  or  off  of  lands  with  which  the  Land  is  pooled  in  accordance  with  this 
Lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the  purpose  of 
drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  therewith, 
shall  for  purposes  of  this  Lease  be  deemed  operations  conducted  on  the  Land,  Nothing  contained 
in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restrictions  or  pooling  provisions  or 
restrictions  contained  in  this  lease,  except  as  expressly  stated, 

10.  Assignments.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to 
time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to  any  mineral  or  horizon.  Lessee  shall  notify  Lessor  in  writing 
of  any  assignment  or  sublease  of  this  Lease  only  if  assigned  to  a  company  of  lesser  financial 
viability  than  XTO  Energy  at  the  time  of  Assignment.  Lessee  and  its  assignees  and  sublessee's  of 
an  interest  in  this  Lease  shall  be  severally  liable.  No  change  or  division  in  ownership  of  the 
Land  or  royalties  however  accomplished  shall  operate  to  enlarge  the  obligations  or  diminish  the 
rights  of  Lessee;  and  no  such  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  nor  impair  the 
effectiveness  of  any  payments  made  hereunder  until  Lessee  shall  have  been  furnished,  thirty  (30) 
days  before  payment  is  due,  a  certified  copy  of  the  recorded  instrument  evidencing  any  transfer, 
inheritance,  sale  or  other  change  in  ownership. 

11.  Force  Majeure.  Should  Lessee  be  wholly  prevented  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure  from 
complying  with  any  express  or  implied  covenant  of  this  Lease  (other  than  a  requirement  to  pay 
money),  from  conducting  operations  on  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  with  the  Land,  or  from 
producing  oil  or  gas,  then  while  so  prevented,  that  covenant  will  be  suspended;  Lessee  will  not 
be  liable  for  damages  for  failure  to  comply  therewith;  this  Lease  will  be  extended  so  long  as 
Lessee  is  prevented  from  conducting  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil  or  gas  from  lands 
pooled  with  the  Land,  but  in  no  event  for  more  than  six  months  per  occurrence  and  the  total  time 
which  this  lease  may  be  extended  by  this  paragraph  may  not  exceed  Two  years;  and  the  time 
while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  will  not  be  counted  against  Lessee,  "Force  Majeure"  means  any 
Act  of  God,  riot,  war,  strike,  insurrection,  any  federal  or  state  law,  or  any  rule  or  regulation  of 
governmental  authority,  or  other  similar  cause  (other  than  financial  reasons),  lack  of  a  suitable 
market  or  other  causes  beyond  the  control  of  Lessee,  BUT  NOT  for  Lessee's  failure  to  obtain  a 
necessary  permit  for  its  operations  from  a  local,  state  or  federal  governing  body.  Before  the 
provisions  of  this  paragraph  may  be  relied  upon  by  Lessee,  Lessee  must  first  furnish  written 
notice  to  Lessor,  within  a  reasonable  time  after  the  first  day  of  the  provisions  hereof  are  relied 
upon,  of  such  event,  giving  the  beginning  date  thereof;  and,  within  a  reasonable  time  after  such 
event  ceases,  notify  Lessor  of  the  resumption  of  activities. 

12.  Warranty  and  Proportionate  Reduction. 

Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind,  either  express  or  implied,  with  respect  to  title  to  the 
Land  or  the  minerals  subject  to  this  Lease.  However,  if  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land 
or  the  minerals  subject  to  this  Lease  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties 
payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately.  By  acceptance  of  this  Lease,  Lessee 
acknowledges  that  it  has  been  given  full  opportunity  to  investigate  and  has  conducted 
sufficient  investigation  to  satisfy  itself  as  to  the  title  to  the  Land  and  the  minerals  subject  to 
this  Lease,  and  Lessee  assumes  all  risk  of  title  failures,  and  in  connection  therewith  Lessee 
shall  have  no  recourse  against  Lessor,  including  no  right  to  a  refund  of  the  bonus  and 
royalties  paid  for  or  under  this  Lease.  Further,  in  the  event  Lessor  does  not  own  all  of  the 
minerals  subject  to  his  Lease,  Lessee  agrees  that  it  will  not  conduct  operations  on  the 
surface  of  the  Land.  This  provision  shall  survive  termination  of  the  Lease. 

13.  Notices.  All  notices  will  be  deemed  given  and  reports  will  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent 
by  certified  letter,  return  receipt  requested,  properly  addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States 


Page  7  of  12 


Postal  Service,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  and  Lessee  at  the  addresses  shown  above.  Either  party 
may  designate  a  new  address  by  written  notice  to  the  other  party. 

14.  Attorney's  Fees.  In  the  event  that  Lessor  or  Lessee  is  required  to  employ  legal  counsel 
for  the  enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this  Lease  and  receives  a  final  unappealable  judgment, 
the  prevailing  party  will  be  entitled  to  recover  from  the  other  party  the  reasonable  attorney's  fees 
and  expenses  incurred  by  said  party. 

15.  Insurance.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force,  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain 
insurance  in  compliance  with  City  of  Grapevine  oil  and  gas  ordinance,  as  amended  and  any  other 
municipal  authority  having  jurisdiction  over  the  Land  and/or  operations  conducted  upon  the 
Land. 

16.  Indemnity.  LESSEE  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS 
LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  EMPLOYEES,  TRUSTEES, 
VOLUNTEERS,  AGENTS,  SUCCESSORS,  AND  ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES, 
CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE 
FOR  INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO 
PROPERTY,  WHETHER  THE  CLAIMS  ARE  BROUGHT  OR  PURSUED  AS  CLAIMS 
OF  NEGLIGENCE,  BREACH  OF  CONTRACT,  NUISANCE,  TORT,  STRICT 
LIABILITY,  OR  OTHERWISE,  AND  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION, 
REASONABLE  ATTORNEY  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED 
BY  LESSEE'S  ACTIVITIES  AND  OPERATIONS  ON  THE  LAND,  OR  LESSEE'S 
MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LAND,  OR  ANY  VIOLATION  OF  ANY 
ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS 
PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE"  INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS, 
EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING 
UNDER  ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT 
CONTRACTORS.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LAND"  INCLUDES 
THE  LAND  COVERED  BY  THIS  LEASE  OR  ANY  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH. 
LESSEE'S  INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  SURVIVE  THE  TERMINATION  OF  THIS 
LEASE, 

17.  Payment  of  Royalties.  The  rights  of  Lessor  under  this  Lease  shall  be  in  addition  to,  and 
not  in  lieu  of,  all  rights  Lessor  may  have  as  to  payment  of  royalty  under  Texas  law,  including, 
without  limitation,  V.T.C.A.  NATURAL  RESOURCES  CODE  §§  91.401  through  91.405. 

18.  Inspection  of  Lessee's  Records.  Upon  written  request,  Lessor  and/or  Lessor's 
representative  shall  have  the  right  to  inspect  all  lease  and  title  records  and  well  records  of  Lessee 
relating  to  the  production  data  attributable  to  this  Lease,  ,  including  the  right  to  audit  Lessee's 
books  insofar  as  they  relate  to  the  calculation  of  Lessor's  royalties.  Such  inspection  shall  be 
limited  to  an  annual  basis  only,  during  Lessee's  normal  business  hours  and  be  exercised  by 
Lessor  by  giving  Lessee  not  less  than  thirty  (30)  business  days  prior  notice;  provided,  however, 
such  audit  rights  shall  not  extend  to  any  periods  which  are  twenty-four  months  (24)  prior  to  the 
date  of  such  audit  notice.  Lessor  shall  bear  all  costs  and  expenses  of  any  such  audit. 

19.  Implied  Covenants.  Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  herein,  nothing  in  this 
Lease  negates  the  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee  under  applicable  law. 

20.  Division  Orders.  If  Lessee  shall  require  the  execution  of  a  division  order  for  payment  of 
royalty  payable  under  this  lease,  then  the  only  form  of  division  order  permitted  for  Lessee's  use 
shall  be  such  form  promulgated  by  the  State  of  Texas  and  set  forth  in  Section  91.402(d),  of  the 
Texas  Natural  Resources  Code  as  amended  from  time  to  time.  Transfer  orders,  if  required,  shall 
be  solely  for  the  purpose  of  confirming  the  interest  transferred  by  Lessor.  In  the  event  of 
production,  all  division  orders  prepared  by  Lessee  and  its  assigns  shall  eliminate  all  references  to 
ratification  of  Lessee's  acts  and  ratification  of  any  related  gas  or  oil  purchase  contracts.  If  such 
statements  are  contained  therein,  such  ratifications  are  void  and  of  no  effect.  Any  amendment, 
alteration,  extension  or  ratification  of  this  lease,  or  of  any  term  or  provision  of  this  lease,  shall  be 
made  only  by  an  instrument  clearly  denominating  its  purpose  and  effect,  describing  the  specific 
terms  or  provisions  affected  and  the  proposed  change  or  modification  hereof,  and  executed  by 
the  party  against  whom  any  such  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  is  sought  to  be 
enforced,  and  any  purported  amendment,  alteration,  extension  or  ratification  not  so  drafted  shall 
be  of  no  force  or  effect. 


Page  8  of  12 


21.  Compliance  with  Governing  Law.  Lessee  will  conduct  all  operations  under  this  Lease 
and/or  on  lands  pooled  herewith  in  compliance  with  the  current  and  future  rules  of  the  Railroad 
Commission  of  Texas,  and  all  federal,  state  and  local  laws,  rules,  regulations,  and  ordinances, 
including  without  limitation  all  environmental  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  ordinances. 

22.  Excess  Royalty  Payments.  Any  payment  of  royalty  or  Shut-in  Royalty  hereunder  paid 
to  Lessor  in  excess  of  the  amount  actually  due  to  the  Lessor  shall  nevertheless  become  the 
property  of  Lessor  if  Lessee  does  not  make  written  request  to  Lessor  for  reimbursement  within 
one  (1)  year  from  the  date  that  Lessor  received  the  erroneous  payment,  it  being  agreed  and 
expressly  understood  between  the  parties  hereto  that  Lessor  is  not  the  collecting  agent  for  any 
other  royalty  owner  under  the  Land,  and  a  determination  of  the  name,  interest  ownership  and 
whereabouts  of  any  person  entitled  to  any  payment  whatsoever  under  the  terms  hereof  shall  be 
the  sole  responsibility  of  Lessee.  Should  monthly  royalty  payments  cease  under  this  Lease  prior 
to  Lessee  recouping  any  such  overpayments  out  of  a  portion  of  Lessor's  monthly  royalty,  Lessee 
shall  absorb  such  loss  in  its  entirety  without  any  liability  to  or  reimbursement  from  Lessor. 

23.  Depth  Severance.  One  (1)  Year  after  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  this  Lease  shall 
terminate  as  to  all  depths  lying  below  one  hundred  feet  (100')  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent 
of  the  deepest  formation  drilled;  provided,  however,  if  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  operations  on 
the  Land  or  on  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  Lease  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  as  to  all 
depths  so  long  as  no  more  than  ninety  (90)  days  elapse  between  said  operations 

24.  Damages.  Should  Lessor  or  tenants  on  the  Land  suffer  loss  or  damage  to  trees,  water 
wells,  fences  and  other  personal  property,  buildings  or  other  improvements  as  a  result  of  the 
operations  of  Lessee  under  the  terms  of  this  lease,  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  or  tenants  the 
actual  amount  of  their  loss  or  damage. 

25.  Subordination  Agreement.  Lessee  shall  not  require  Lessor  to  furnish  a  subordination 
agreement  of  any  kind  as  a  condition  for  receipt  of  any  royalty  payment  or  other  payment 
obligation  hereunder.  Upon  request,  Lessor  shall  (i)  disclose  to  Lessee  contact  information  for 
any  such  lienholder,  (ii)  consent  to  Lessee  making  contact  with  any  such  lienholder,  and  consent 
to  such  lienholder  disclosing  the  status  of  any  such  lien  and  the  underlying  obligation,  and  (iii) 
agree  to  reasonably  cooperate  with  Lessee  to  obtain  such  subordination  agreement  from  Lessor's 
lender(s).  Lessee  shall  pay  all  fees  and  expenses  charged  by  Lessor's  lender  for  any 
subordination  agreement  sought  by  Lessee. 

26.  Release.  In  the  event  this  Lease  terminates  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  part  of  the 
Land,  Lessee  shall,  within  60  days  thereafter,  deliver  to  Lessor  a  recordable  release  covering  all 
of  the  Land  or  that  portion  of  the  Land  as  to  which  this  Lease  terminated 

27.  Environmental  and  Operational  Provisions.  Lessee's  operations  are  being  conducted 
in  or  near  an  urban  residential  area.  Therefore,  with  regard  to  any  well  drilled  within  600  feet  of 
said  Land,  Lessee  shall: 

(1)  Equip  any  and  all  compressors,  machinery  and  drilling  equipment  with 
noise  suppression,  muffling  devices  and  pollution  constraints. 

(2)  Not  operate  or  maintain  any  compressors  within  600  feet  of  said  Land, 
except  ones  to  be  used  solely  for  gas  odorizing  or  initial  gas  lift  purposes  and  Lessee  shall  take 
all  reasonable  steps  to  muffle  any  sound  or  noise  from  its  compressors, 

(3)  Lessee  agrees  to  comply  with  all  environmental  and  operational 
requirements  of  City  of  North  Richland  Hills  Oil  and  Gas  Ordinance,  as  amended,  and  any  other 
municipal  authority  having  jurisdiction  over  the  Land  and/or  operations  conducted  upon  the 
Land  unless  variances  are  granted  by  City  Council. 

(4)  Provide  fencing  around  the  drillsite  tract  in  order  to  reasonably  and 
effectively  prevent  the  migration  of  vermin  and  small  animals  to  the  adjacent  properties  and 
lands; 

(5)  While  drilling  operations  are  taking  place,  place  lighting  directed  on  the 
derrick  and  drill  site  area  for  safety  reasons,  and  take  all  reasonable  precautions  to  avoid 
directing  the  lighting  onto  surrounding  neighborhoods  and  properties. 


Page  9  of  12 


(6)  Lessee  shall  use  all  reasonable  safeguards  to  prevent  contamination  or 
pollution  of  any  environmental  medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater,  sediments, 
and  surface  or  subsurface  strata,  ambient  air  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under 
the  Land  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  by  any  waste,  pollutant,  or  contaminant.  Lessee  shall  not 
bring  or  permit  to  remain  on  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  therewith  any  asbestos  containing 
materials,  explosives,  toxic  materials,  or  substances  regulated  as  hazardous  wastes,  hazardous 
materials,  hazardous  substances  (as  the  term  "Hazardous  Substance"  is  defined  in  the 
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  (CERCLA),  42  U.S. 
C.  Sections  9601,  et  seq.)  or  toxic  substances  under  any  federal,  state  or  local  law  or  regulation 
("Hazardous  Materials"),  except  ordinary  products  commonly  used  in  connection  with  oil  and 
gas  exploration  and  development  operations  and  stored  in  the  usual  manner  and  quantities. 
LESSEE  SHALL  INDEMNIFY,  HOLD  HARMLESS  AND  DEFEND  LESSOR,  ITS 
AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  TENANTS,  GUESTS,  INVITEES  AND  THEIR  RESPECTIVE 
SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS  FROM  AND  AGAINST  ANY  CLAIMS,  DAMAGES, 
JUDGMENTS,  PENALTIES,  LIABILITIES,  AND  COSTS  (INCLUDING  REASONABLE 
ATTORNEYS  FEES  AND  COURT  COSTS)  CAUSED  BY  (1)  LESSEE'S  VIOLATION 
OF  THE  FOREGOING  PROHIBITION  OR  (2)  LESSEE'S  RELEASE  OR  DISPOSAL 
OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  ON,  UNDER  OR  ABOUT  SAID  LAND  OR 
LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  LESSEE'S  OCCUPANCY  OR  CONTROL 
OF  SAME.  LESSEE  SHALL  CLEAN  UP,  REMOVE,  REMEDY,  AND  REPAIR  ANY 
SOIL  OR  GROUND  WATER  CONTAMINATION  AND  DAMAGE  CAUSED  BY 
LESSEE'S  RELEASE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  IN,  ON,  UNDER  OR 
ABOUT  SAID  LAND  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH  DURING  LESSEE'S 
OCCUPANCY  OF  SAME  IN  CONFORMANCE  WITH  THE  REQUIREMENTS  OF 
APPLICABLE  LAW.  THIS  INDEMNIFICATION  AND  ASSUMPTION  SHALL  APPLY, 
BUT  IS  NOT  LIMITED  TO,  LIABILITY  FOR  RESPONSE  ACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN 
PURSUANT  TO  CERCLA  OR  ANY  OTHER  ENVIRONMENTAL  LAW  OR 
REGULATION.  LESSEE  SHALL  IMMEDIATELY  GIVE  LESSOR  WRITTEN 
NOTICE  OF  ANY  BREACH  OR  SUSPECTED  BREACH  OF  THIS  PARAGRAPH, 
UPON  LEARNING  OF  THE  PRESENCE  OF  ANY  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS,  OR 
UPON  RECEIVING  A  NOTICE  PERTAINING  TO  HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS 
WHICH  AFFECT  SAID  LAND  OR  LANDS  POOLED  THEREWITH.  THE 
OBLIGATIONS  OF  LESSEE  HEREUNDER  SHALL  SURVIVE  THE  EXPIRATION  OR 
EARLIER  TERMINATION  FOR  ANY  REASON,  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

28.  Dwellings.  No  structure  of  any  kind  shall  be  used  as  a  dwelling  house  for  any  persons 
associated  with  the  operations  on  lands  pooled  with  the  Land. 

29.  Groundwater  Protection.  Any  oil  or  gas  wells  drilled  by  Lessee  under  this  Lease  shall 
be  drilled  in  compliance  with  the  surface  casing  requirements  imposed  by  the  State  of  Texas  for 
groundwater  protection  and  Lessee  shall  install  such  surface  casing  in  the  required  manner  in 
order  to  insure  the  protection  of  all  fresh  water  bearing  formations  in  and  under  the  Land. 

30.  Visual  Appearance.  Lessee  shall  maintain  any  drillsites  within  500  feet  of  the  Land  in  a 
clean  and  orderly  fashion, 

31.  Mud  Pits.  Lessee  shall  locate  no  mud  pits  on  lands  located  within  500  feet  of  the  Land. 

32.  Headings.  Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  this  Lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to 
be  considered  in  the  interpretation  or  construction  of  this  Lease. 

33.  Binding  Effect.  This  Lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and 
their  respective  heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns. 

34.  Jurisdiction  and  Venue.  Jurisdiction  and  venue  for  any  legal  dispute  between  Lessor 
and  Lessee  related  in  any  way  to  this  lease  shall  be  in  the  court(s)  of  competent  jurisdiction 
located  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

35.  Option  to  Extend.  Lessee  is  hereby  given  the  option,  to  be  exercised  prior  to  the  date  on 
which  this  lease  or  any  portion  thereof  would  expire  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  provisions 
of  extending  this  lease  for  a  period  of  two  (2)  years  as  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  acreage  then 
held  hereunder  which  would  expire  unless  so  extended.  The  only  action  required  by  Lessee  to 
exercise  such  option  being  the  payment  to  Lessor  (or  for  Lessor's  credit  at  the  depository  bank 
named  herein)  and/or  such  parties  entitled  under  any  change  of  ownership  according  to  Lessee's 


Page  10  of  12 


records,  an  additional  consideration  of  the  sum  of  Twenty  Thousand  Dollars  ($20,000.00) 

per  net  mineral  acre  owned  by  the  party  entitled  to  such  payment  at  such  time  of  extension,  in 
the  acreage  so  extended.  If  this  lease  is  extended  as  to  only  a  portion  of  the  acreage  then  covered 
hereby,  Lessee  shall  designate  such  portion  by  a  recordable  instrument. 

36.  Free  Will.  Be  it  known  that  Lessor  has  read  this  lease  and  the  decision  made  by  Lessor 
in  signing  this  lease  is  made  after  fully  researching  this  matter  independent  of  any  other 
information  provided  by  any  person  or  entity.  Lessor  agrees  to  sign  this  agreement  of  their  own 
free  will  and  Lessor  was  in  no  way  coerced  to  sign  said  Lease  by  any  person  or  entity.  All 
proceeds  from  the  Lease  fully  remain  the  property  of  the  Lessor. 

37.  Memorandum  of  Oil  and  Gas  Lease.  Contemporaneously  with  the  execution  of  this 
Lease,  Lesser  and  Lessee  have  executed  a  Memorandum  of  Oil  and  Gas  Lease,  and  Lessor  and 
Lessee  agree  that  such  Memorandum  of  Oil  and  Gas  Lease,  which  makes  reference  to  this  Lease, 
will  be  recorded  in  the  appropriate  records  of  the  counties  in  which  said  Land  is  located  in  lieu  of 
the  recording  of  this  Lease  in  its  entirety.  The  recording  of  said  Memorandum  of  Oil  and  Gas 
Lease  shall  be  binding  upon  Lessor  and  Lessee,  and  their  respective  heirs,  successors,  legal 
representatives  and  assigns,  the  same  as  if  this  Lease  was  fried  of  record  in  its  complete  text. 

38.  Counterparts.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  in  any  number  of  counterparts  of  each  of  the 
Lessors  as  identified  on  Schedule  I  hereto  and  each  counterpart  of  a  Schedule  I  hereto  so 
executed  shall  have  the  same  force  and  effect  as  an  original  instrument  and  as  if  all  the  parties  to 
the  aggregate  counterparts  had  signed  the  same  instrument.  For  recording  purposes,  the 
counterpart  signature  and  acknowledgment  of  the  Schedule  I  of  each  of  the  Lessors  may  be 
included  in  one  instrument  to  be  filed  for  record  in  the  records  of  the  County  Clerk  of  Tarrant 
County,  Texas. 

39.  This  Lease  is  binding  upon  and  for  the  benefit  of  Lessor,  Lessee,  and  their  respective 
heirs,  personal  representatives,  successors,  and  assigns 

40.  Release  and  Discharge.  Lessor  acknowledges  that  the  terms  of  the  Lease,  this  addendum, 
the  amount  of  the  royalty  and  bonus  paid  hereunder,  and  all  other  terms  negotiated  with  Lessee 
(herein  the  "Negotiated  Terms")  with  respect  to  this  Lease,  were  obtained  as  a  result  of 
negotiations  between  Lessee  and  the  group  known  as  GRNA,  which  consists  of  a  committee  of 
unpaid  volunteers.  In  consideration  of  the  efforts  spent  by  GRNA,  the  committee  members,  other 
volunteers  and  attorneys  in  negotiating  and  obtaining  the  Negotiated  Terms  on  behalf  of  Lessor, 
Lessor  and  its  respective  agents,  spouses,  co-owners,  predecessors,  parents,  subsidiaries, 
affiliated  corporations,  or  other  affiliated  entities,  successors,  partners,  principals,  assigns, 
attorneys,  servants,  agents,  employees,  heirs,  consultants  and  other  representatives,  does  hereby 
release  and  forever  discharge  GRNA,  the  committee  members,  and  any  volunteers  or  attorneys 
representing  GRNA,  from  any  and  all  claims,  demands,  obligations,  losses,  causes  of  action, 
costs,  expenses,  attorney's  fees,  and  liabilities  of  any  nature  whatsoever,  whether  based  on 
contract,  tort,  statutory  or  other  legal  or  equitable  theory  of  recovery,  whether  known  or 
unknown,  past,  present,  or  future,  which  Lessor  has,  has  had,  or  claims  to  have  against  the 
individual  committee  members,  volunteers,  or  GRNA  which  relate  to,  arise  from,  or  are  in  any 
manner  connected  to  (i)  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (ii)  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iii), 
the  inclusion  and/or  omission  of  any  terms  within  the  Negotiated  Terms,  (iv)  any  activity,  act  or 
omission  in  ai=y  way  related  to  the  Negotiated  Terms  or  the  negotiation  of  the  Negotiated  Terms 
or  (v)  any  and  all  representations  made  prior,  during,  and  subsequent  to  Lessor's  execution  of 
this  Lease  and  Amendment. 

41.  Lessor  Acknowledgement.  GRNA  is  an  all  volunteer  group  of  residents  and  local  property 
owners  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Land.  The  group's  purpose  is  to  unite  in  the  hopes  of  negotiating  the 
best  terms  possible  with  respect  to  an  oil  and  gas  lease  with  Lessee.  By  signing  this  Lease, 
Lessor  acknowledges  and  stipulates  that  Lessor  was  not  obligated  to  sign  this  Lease  based  upon 
the  terms  negotiated  by  GRNA  with  Lessee  and  that  Lessor  had  the  right  to  negotiate  its  own 
terms  and  with  any  company  prior  to  signing  this  Lease.  Additionally,  Lessor  acknowledges  that 
it  is  Lessor's  obligation  to  investigate  this  Lease,  all  negotiated  terms,  to  take  such  action  as 
necessary  to  make  an  informed  decision  prior  to  signing  this  Lease,  and  that  the  decision  made 
by  Lessor  in  signing  this  Lease  is  made  after  fully  researching  this  matter  independent  of  any 
other  information  provided  by  GRNA  and/or  its  committee  members,  representatives  and/or 
attorneys.  Lessor  agrees  and  acknowledges  that  it  is  ultimately  Lessor's  responsibility  to  (a) 
determine  if  Lessor  wants  to  negotiate  with  Lessee,  (b)  fully  investigate  the  issues  and  facts 


Page  11  of  12 


related  to  signing  an  oil  and  gas  lease,  and  (c)  determine  what  terms  are  acceptable  to  Lessor  to 
be  included  in  this  Lease, 


SEE  EXHIBIT  'A'  FOR  LEGAL  DESCRIPTION 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instalment  is  executed  on  the  date  first  above  written. 


WENT  FOR  INDMDl 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  } 

}  ss.  (ACKNOWLEDGMENT  FOR  INDIVIDUAL) 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT} 

m 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the-8tt*day  of  October  2008  by 


Stephen  D.  Johnson  and  Bonnie  J.  Johnson,  a  married  couple 


Signal  /  /  ^J0S^ 
NoTary/  Public 


Printed  michAxA  d^ifdcn 

Seal 


WILLIAM  MICHAEL  B8ANTON 
****  A  'f\  Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
Augujst_26,  2012  ^ 


Page  12  of  12 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


0.388  acres,  more  or  less,  and  being  Block  22,  Lot  12,  Wintergreen  North  Addition, 
an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Hurst,  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  according  to  the  Plat 
recorded  in  Volume  388-121,  Page  26,  Plat  Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and 
being  those  same  lands  more  particularly  described  in  a  Warranty  Deed  (By 
Corporation)  with  Vendor's  Lien,  recorded  thereof  in  Volume  7722,  Page  459,  Deed 
Records,  Tarrant  County,  Texas  and  amendments  thereof,  including  streets, 
easements,  and  alleyways  adjacent  thereto,  and  any  riparian  rights. 


