Page 1 of 3 


Electronically Recorded Tarrant County Texas 
Official Public Records 11/4/2009 4:15 PM D209292058 


NOTICE OF CONFIDENTIALITY BIGHT Sic IF YOU ARBA NATURKU PERSON, YOU MAY REMOVE 
OR STRI NY OF THE. FOLLOWING INFORMATION FROM.ANY INSTRUMENT THAT 
TRANSFERS AN INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY BEFORE IT IS FILED FOR RECORD IN THE 
PUBLIC RECORDS: YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR YOUR DRIVER'S LICENSE NUMBER. 


XTO REV PROD 88 (7-69} PAID UP (04/97/0738 


OIL, GAS AND MINERAL LEASE 


THIS AGREEMENT mada ik f Os hetween, Elizabeihn Mutua, an unmarried person. Lessors (whether one or more), 
whose address is NS wd , and XTO Energy inc., whese address is: 810 Houston St, Fort Worth, 


Texas 764102 


1. Lessor, i 
anid agred 
and vain f 


SOD 
3. Griling, 
Hy te 


paral 


ower Stat Hone, telephone 
. producing. 
COVES 


1B IN BAPIONNS 
and adjaes 
sd 8 owe 


18 proche ai 
fed in the Couey oy 


MES, BE IW GEse 


Lot G1R, Biock 12, of Fossil Lake, Section 1, an Addition te ihe City of Artingtan, Tarrant County, Texas, according to the Plat thereof 
recorded in Cabinet 8, Side 3621, Flat Records, Tarrant County, Texas. 
SEE ATTACHED EXHIBIT "A® 


The faase ¢ : ine i hat Asam of i land, is aan sar adiais The dare 
} ipti Be yet at ronnied 
SUyNeneAw msl 
vet af any bi 
vy idse. and 
3 consideraion 


instar 


: oF oe a preference 
FEHIOSE % APBLS OF BNCOTaN Gi 
ather PayrAgne here Beer, are shall be dew 
of sere any iract shal ke deament {6 
lemam aot cdby and aptions hareunder, 


0,208 acsey, whether & cont 
2 herent. Cegaar aooe nts the Bonue as Tune § 


2. Uriess sooner terminated or longer kept in force under other provisions hereof, this lease shall remain in force for a term of Three (3) 
years from the date hereof, hereinatter called "primary term.” and as long thered fier as operations, as hereinafter defined, are conducted 
upon said land with no cessation for more than ninety ($0) consecutive days 


ine equat 3 


ae posted : 
SY Gas and casinghe aa 
: ‘ 


"ale by Li 28% of nt roadizest by Les ‘atihe macth of the well oe 2 
fos the nap 3 
tS oe 


. SXSEnT Fatah ¢ 
sae of the pr roy te Bi any. fle or thy 
marent ha: cupable of producing o 
sparat ONS. ween c fucks E 8 
Bs o vhulin had oacurn 3 rOuS IGS PRBGGNAG ¥ 
we Dru f : és of such g nce, Lasuse shall nob 
: ff i as se tank anc 
Stes afer 


: . “ BS FO¥E 
ch acte of land t a wk z E 2 TRS 2 oF before the end of 
Hf sakd ninety day period ‘ 3 ereary Uh: nirvana 19 pene solely by 
uch payrnint ¢ or tei y payriant would 
3 neler fis ig ase f the we ‘ ad bi SuCD Dak aS 
3 2HON safe Age of ahut 
hod poy payment herein, prov in oy fs : Varia z ed, athe ly to sow 
tely f>.gach i} zig 3 ’ der May 
SRECR OF eek of Las che mad 8 1 Dee fo TCS! 
fay above an or batarg the we Se hall ano 18'S. FGhE eS 
fi ent of sesignmert of t y for pe } voces sheit 
af qwners of this nase. gevaea’ ys D 


heraby gre 


¥ Bs 


ERY C 
: are ca: 
FiBR ox: 


my are sn fis E 
NS IORAGT IS ane whether bafods ¢ after ¢ GTANONS OF BEE 
id feed ved in the ond, or an other land uniize 
PLEYPRS as nase ar though there diay te riviéral, 7 
S Conductad an any part of s 
aid laed under Exe 


3th : ¥ AS 
VETS. separate § that propartiort of gh 
Hg tes unit ap ~ which iha rusher af surface ach 
re te the toa narnber of gurfage agieg in the . 
ayant or deli ery af royally “ovel 
SS frat mre land fo wh allocated 
Stats © . 


Fee LG : 
ating at daly 
fh in owbich the p By 
mane shes ee ae ‘ kk lease Sub(e 
ae OF hareaker SSS 8 SQHsraie WAS. nt Sis iS Mo y indeeaaiy a8 Saiween re 


Page 2 of 3 


shail be ins 


Ried OF result merely am the inclusion of such separate tracts within this lease but Lessee shall neverthaless hava tie right to 
ool er unites as provided in this paragraph 4 with consequent allecation of production as herein provided. As used ia this paragraph 4, 
he words “separdie tract” meen arty tract with royally awnership differing, now or hereafter, either as to parties or amounts, fram fiat as to 
any other part athe leased. premises. 


5. Lessee may at any time and from time to time execute and deliver to Lessor or file for record a release or releases of this lease as to 
any par or ail of said land or of any mineral or horizon thereunder, and thereby be relieved of alt obligations, as to the released acreage or 
interest. 


§. Whenever used in this jease the word “operations” shall mean Operations for and/or any of the following: preparing the deilisite location 
of woress road, drilling, testing, completing, reworking, recompile! ing, deepening, sidetracking, plugging back or repairing of a well in 
search for-ar in an endéaver fo obiain pecduntion of off, gas, sulphur or other minerats, excavating a mine, production of cil, gas, sulphur or 
uthet robieral, whether or pad is Baying quaniities. 


© ; af water, other thar from Lessors water wells, angi of cil and gas produced from said land 
in a operations horande sued shall Have the Sght al avy timeto remove all machinery and fixtures tlaced on said land, including the 
TOM! to craw and ramoyve casing. Ne well shall ba eiiiied nearer than S00 fest (6 the houss or bam Aow on said land without the consent of 
ihe Leasor. Lasse shall pay far damages caused by 3s operalians fo Growing Gravis and fimiber en said land, 


Lesese shall have the use, tres from raya 


8 The sights and selate of any party hereto may be asaigned frorn time to time in whole or in part and ato any mineral or horgon. All of 
ihe covenants, obtigations, and considerations of Mis tense shall extend to and be binding upan the partes berelo, ther helm, sucauasors, 
pssigns. and successive assigns. No change or division is the ownership of said land. royalties, o olher moneys, ar any part nero, 
howsoever effected, shall increase the obligations. or damirat the rights of Lessee, including. bul not limited to, the location and ubiliing at 
wells and the measurement of sroduction. Notwithstanding any other actual or consiructis nowledge of notice thereof of or to Lessee, its 
SUCCESSOFS OF ASSIGNS, NG change: or division in the ownership of said land or of the royalties, or other moneys, or the right to receive the 
same, howsvever afectes!, shai ge binding upon the then record owner of this lpase until sixty (60) days ater there has been furnished to 
Sith Teouee Gunter at his oF its principal place of business by Lessor or Lessar's heirs, successors, or assigns, notice of such change or 
(sion, sUNporikd by either originals or duly certified copies of the instruments which have been property fled for record and which 
us suck change of division, and of such court records and proceedings. transcripts, or other documents as shail be necessary in the 
opinion of such record owner to establish the validity of such change or division, if any such change in ownership occurs by reason of the 
death of the owner, Lessee may, nevertheless pay dr tender such royaities, or other moneys, or part thereof, to the credit af the decedent 
in a depository bank provided for above. 


8. in the ev 


Lessee shall ihen have anty (80) days 
: ged by Lessos, The service of sited. 
i for any RaUee, ANd NS.suSh Ballon shall he Browght unt 

rive of Sid HUG 
pragumpt 


ihe: 


see, Naither the 
med Bf SaMIaKios. ar 


{3} sufficient acreage 
verry tal 


WHS. ARE ox 
hee MEA estal 
STRING FANT BEY Reet as 

n, W any, covered & E 
ge whether or ned oy 
CUES H WHHQUE regres 


ahall be 3 : EIN P 
axeculed by af those named hersircas Lessor 


fo wheather 


24. Hf, white this lease i in Sorc’; a1, GF afer the expitstion of the primary tenn horact, i is nal being o 4d in force by reason of the 
shulag wall provisians af pafagraph 2 hereof, and Leases is oct comlucting operations on Said land by reagon af (3) any law, order, rule of 
regulation, (whether or not subsequently determined to be muatidl or 2) Say'ather cause, whether sindar ot diseiiiar, Joxcept nancial 
deyand the reasonable contral of Leases, the primary teray hereo! shall be axtendad anf! the first anniversary date hereof occurring ninety 
Q 3 ox Mure cays jolowing ihe removal of auch delany seuse, and this jense.may be extercied thareatier Sy operations as if such delay 
had not occurred: 


42. Lessor agrees that this lease covers and includes any and all of Lessor's Tights in and to any existing well(s) and/or wellbore(s) on said 
land, other than existing water wells, and for all purposes of this lease the re-eniry and use by Lessee of any existing well and/or wellbore 
shall be deemed the same as the drilling of a new well, 


13. Notwithgtanding anyiiiag tc the contrary contained in this lease, at the option of Lessee, which may be exercised by Lessee _ ; 
Giving motes fe Lisssar, a wel which has been drilled and Lessee intends fo frac shall be deerned a well capable of producing in paying 


Guantding and the date auch wei is shut-in shall be when the drilling operations are completed, 


14. As a result of land development in the vicinity of said land, governmental rules or ordinances fagarding well sites, and/or surface 
restrictions a may be set fosth in this tease and/or other leases in The vicinity, surface locations for well Sites if ihe vicinity may be limited 
any Lessee may encounter difficulty securing surface location(s) for drilling, reworking or other operations, Therefore. since driffing, 
reworking. or aiher opevationa are efther restricted or nat allowed on said land or other leases in the vicinity, itis agreed that any suc 
operatiogg conmucted af a sufface inoation off of said fand or off of lands with which said land are pooled iri accordance with this lease, 
provided thai such qperations are associated with a directional weil for the purpose of drilling, reworking, producing or other operations 
under said land or lands pidied therewith, shall for purposes of this lease be deemed operations conducted on said land. Nothing 
contained in this paragraph is intended to modify any surface restriclions or pooling provisions or restrictions contained in this lease, 
except a5 exgrasaly stated. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, thie instrument is executed on the date first above written, 


STATE OF TEXAS } 
COUNTY OF TARRANT  } 


2 : 
This instrument was acknowledged before me on the 08 day of Gstohac 20a hy E 


Signature: 


Printed: 


Randhidfertodaricanerenine 


i 
# 


Page 3 of 3 


EXHIBIT 4A” 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION 


Let 61R, Block 12, Foasii Lake, Section 1, an Addition to the City of Arlington, Tarrant 
County, Texas, according to the Plat recerded in Cabinet B, Slide 3021, Plat Records, Tarrant 
County, Texas, 


NO SURFACE USE 


Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Lessee hereby waives and releases al] surface rights 
of every kind and nature acquired under this lease. Lessee shall not conduct any surface operations whatsoever 
upon the Leased Premises. However, this waiver of surface rights shall not be construed as 9 waiver of the right 
of Leases to exploit, explore for, develop, or produce such off or gas with wells drilled from outside of the 
leased premises and in ne event may the drilling activity penetrate the land at a depth of less than 560 feet 
below the surface. 


