Page  1  of  3 


Electronically  Recorded  Tarrant  County  Texas 

Official  Public  Records  1 1/24/2009  8:45  AM  D209308598 

^^-^^^  ,  ^   j     PGS     3  $24.00 

Suzanne  Henderson  Submitter:  SIMPLIFIIF  ,,„T  _„  .  ,7 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:    IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 

REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 

INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 

FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:   YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 

DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 


AMENDMENT  OF  OIL,  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


THE  STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


KNOW  ALL  MEN  BY  THESE  PRESENTS: 

WHEREAS,  DANIEL  J.  HILER  and  NANCY  H.  HILER,  husband  and  wife,  whose  address 
is  2600  Clover  Lane,  Arlington,  Texas  76015,  ("Lessors")  executed  that  certain  Oil,  Gas  and 
Mineral  Lease  dated  August  30, 2007,  a  memorandum  of  which  is  recorded  in  the  Official  Records  of 
Tarrant  County,  Texas  as  document  D207339596,  covering  lands  more  specifically  described  therein 
("the  Lease"),  and, 

WHEREAS,  Lessors  and  Lessee  now  desire  to  amend  the  Lease  as  to  the  pooling  provision 
as  hereinafter  set  forth. 

NOW,  THEREFORE,  Lessors  do  hereby  amend  the  Lease  as  follows: 

Delete  the  following  clause: 

Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time  to  unitize  the  leased  premises  or  any  portion 
or  portions  thereof,  as  to  all  non-excepted  strata  or  any  stratum  or  strata,  with  any  other  lands  as  to  all  non-excepted  strata  or 
any  strata  or  any  stratum  or  strata,  for  the  production  primarily  of  oil  or  primarily  of  gas  with  or  without  distillate.  Lessor 
specifically  excepts  and  reserves  those  strata  beneath  the  leased  premises  within  500  feet  of  the  surface  or  those  deeper  than 
100  feet  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  formation  drilled  on  the  leased  premises.  However,  no 
unit  for  the  production  primarily  of  oil  shall  embrace  more  than  160  acres,  or  for  the  production  primarily  of  gas  with  or 
without  distillate  more  than  640  acres;  provided  that  if  any  governmental  regulation  shall  prescribe  a  spacing  pattern  for  the 
development  of  the  field  or  allocate  a  producing  allowable  based  on  acreage  per  well,  then  any  such  unit  may  embrace  as 
much  additional  acreage  as  may  be  so  prescribed  or  as  may  be  used  in  such  allocation  of  allowable.  In  the  absence  of 
governmental ly  prescribed  spacing,  Lessee  shall  file  written  unit  designations  in  the  county  in  which  the  leased  premises  are 
located.  Operations  upon  and  production  from  the  unit  shall  be  treated  as  if  such  operations  were  upon  or  such  production 
was  from  the  leased  premises  whether  or  not  the  well  or  wells  are  located  thereon.  The  entire  acreage  within  a  unit  shall  be 
treated  for  all  purposes  as  if  it  were  covered  by  and  included  in  this  lease  except  that  the  royalty  on  production  the  unit  shall 
be  as  below  provided,  and  except  that  in  calculating  the  amount  of  any  shut  in  gas  royalties,  only  the  part  of  the  acreage 
originally  leased  and  then  actually  embraced  by  this  lease  shall  be  counted.  In  respect  to  production  from  the  unit,  Lessee 
shall  pay  Lessor,  in  lieu  of  other  royalties  thereon,  only  such  proportion  of  the  royalties  stipulated  herein  as  the  amount  of 
this  acreage  placed  in  the  unit,  or  his  royalty  interest  therein  on  an  acreage  basis,  bears  to  the  total  acreage  in  the  unit. 
Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  lease  to  the  contrary,  Lessee  agrees  to  include  all  and  not  just  part  of  the  leased 
premises  in  any  unit  the  leased  premises  should  be  pooled  with,  the  size  of  the  unit  shall  not  exceed  the  minimum  size 
necessary  to  obtain  the  maximum  production  allowable.  In  the  case  of  a  well  producing  from  the  Barnett  Shale  formation, 
the  unit  may  not  exceed  40  acres  for  a  vertical  well,  and  a  unit  for  a  horizontal  well  may  include  the  additional  acreage  as 
permitted  by  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  Lessee  shall  file  for  record  in  the  real  property  records  of  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  an  Instrument  describing  and  designating  the  pooled  acreage  and  depths  for  the  pooled  unit,  and  upon  such 
recordation  the  unit  shall  become  effective  as  to  all  parties. 


Page  2  of  3 


Add  the  following  clause: 

Lessee  shall  have  the  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein 
with  any  other  lands  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  substances  covered  by  this  lease,  either 
before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to 
prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to  such  other 
lands  or  interests.  The  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80 
acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  a  gas  well  or  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  640  acres 
plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  a  larger  unit  may  be  formed  for  an  oil  well  or  gas  well  or 
horizontal  completion  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  that  may  be  prescribed  or  permitted  by  any 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction  to  do  so.  For  the  purpose  of  the  foregoing,  the  terms  "oil  well"  and  "gas  well" 
shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  the  appropriate  governmental  authority,  or,  if  no  definition  is  so 
prescribed,  "oil  well"  means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  less  than  100,000  cubic  feet  per  barrel  and  "gas  well" 
means  a  well  with  an  initial  gas-oil  ratio  of  100,000  cubic  feet  or  more  per  barrel,  based  on  24-hour  production  test 
conducted  under  normal  producing  conditions  using  standard  lease  separator  facilities  or  equivalent  testing  equipment;  and 
the  term  "horizontal  completion"  means  a  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion  interval  in  the 
reservoir  exceeds  the  vertical  component  thereof.  In  exercising  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a 
written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  pooling.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking 
operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  shall  be  treated  as  if  it  were  production, 
drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated 
shall  be  that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit 
bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the  extent  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee. 
Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring 
right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  prescribed  or  permitted  by  the 
governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any  productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such 
governmental  authority.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  revised 
unit  and  stating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded 
from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall 
thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  absence  of  production  in  paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent 
cessation  thereof,  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  stating  the 
date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

It  is  understood  and  agreed  by  the  parties  hereto  that  the  provisions  hereof  shall  supersede 
any  provisions  to  the  contrary  in  the  Lease.  For  adequate  consideration,  Lessors  do  hereby  adopt, 
ratify  and  confirm  the  Lease,  as  amended  herein,  and  do  hereby  stipulate  that  the  Lease  remains  in 
full  force  and  effect.  Insofar  as  is  necessary,  Lessors  do  hereby  lease,  let,  and  demise  to  Lessee  the 
lands  covered  by  the  Lease,  pursuant  to  the  terms  and  provisions  of  the  Lease,  as  of  the  Effective 
Date  set  forth  herein. 

The  terms  and  provisions  hereof  shall  be  binding  upon  the  parties  hereto,  their  respective 
heirs,  legatees,  devisees,  personal  representatives,  successors  and  assigns. 


IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  instrument  is  hereby  made  effective  as  of  the  I  >rh  day 
of  NtoVevnke*"  2009,  regardless  of  the  actual  day  of  execution  and  acknowledgment  by 
any  or  all  of  the  parties  constituting  the  Lessors  herein. 


Lessor: 


Nancy 


Page  3  of  3 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


STATE  OF  TEXAS  § 

§ 

COUNTY  OF  TARRANT  § 


\  The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before^n^  on  the 
of  A\**v\V>p>  ,2009,  byDanji 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 
COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


§ 


The  foregoing  instrument  was  acknowledged  before^me  on  the 
 ,  2009,  by  Nancy  H. 


r\  me  lorcgomg 

of  V  Y)Oe^Vw\ 


