Page  1  of  4 

Electronicallv  Recorded  Tarrant  County  Texas 

Official  Public  Records  11/25/200912:49  PM  D209310426 

^   j     PGS     4  $28.00 

Suzanne  Henderson  Submitter:  SIMPLIFILE 


CHESAPEAKE  ENERGY  CORP. 
ATTN:  RECORDING  TEAM 
P.O.  Box  18496 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73154 

Submitter:  Chesapeake  Operating,  Inc. 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 
TARRANT  COUNTY  CLEftK 
TARRANT  COUNfY  ^OU  At  HdUSE 

100  WESf  VffEA^I^fet* 
FORT  WOftTiN,  fX  ^619^401 


WARNING-  THIS  IS 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 


ELECTRONICALLY  RECORDED 
BY  SIMPLIFILE 


By: 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE;.  RENTAL  OR  USE 
OF  THE  DESCRIBED  ftEAC  PROPERTY  BEtciu^E;  OT ' CdtQ^^S7  • 
RACE  IS  INVALID  AMD  UNENFORG^BLIe  Uh^R  ^IWlItlW. 


Page  2  of  4 


NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS:  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY 
REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY 
INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT  IS  FILED 
FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR 
DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

Pioducers  88  (4-69)—  Paid  Up 
With  640  Acres  Pooling  Provision 

PAID-UP  OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(No  Surface  Use) 

THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  this  7lh  day  of  January.  2009.  by  and  between  Robindcr  N.  Sarniidraia  and  Rakhalinn  Shamim.  husband  and  wife 
whose  address  is  44S  Fieiicroa  Strcel,  Suite  2600  Los  Aneelcs.  CA  «)007l.  as  Lessor  and  CHESAPEAKE  EXPLORATION.  L.L.C..  an  Oklahoma  limited 
hahilitv  company,  whose  address  is  P.O.  Box  18496.  Oklahoma  City.  Oklahoma  73154-0496.  as  Lessee.  All  primed  portions  or  this  lease  were  prepared  by  .he 
puny  hereinabove  named  as  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  or'blmk  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee 

I.  In  consideration  of  a  cash  bonus  in  hand  paid  and  the  covenants  herein  contained.  Lessor  hereby  grams,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  lo  Lessee  ihe  tollowiny. 
described  land,  hereinafter  called  leased  premises: 

ABSTRACT  NO.  &  SURVEY  NAME:  JH  Lucas,  A-932 

LOT  23,  BLOCK  E,  CENTENNIAL  PLACE,  PHASE  ONE,  AN  ADDITION  TO  THE  CITY  Ol-  CROWLEY.  TARRANT  COUNTY.  TEXAS, 
ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAP  OR  PLAT  THEREOF  RECORDED  IN  CABINET  A,  SLIDE  5148,  PLAT  RECORDS,  TARRANT  COUNTY,  TEXAS. 

in  the  county  of  TARRANT,  State  of  TEXAS,  containing  .13706.06,7  gross  acres,  more  or  less  (including  any  interests  therein  which  Lessor  mav  hereafter  acquire  by 
reversion,  prescription  or  otherwise),  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas.  along  with  all  hydrocarbon  and  non 
hydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  (including  geophysical/seismic  operations).  'Hie  term  "gas"  as  used  herein  includes  helium,  carbon  dioxide 
and  other  commercial  gases,  as  well  as  hydrocarbon  gases.  In  addition  to  the  above-described  leased  premises,  this  lease  also  covers  accretions  and  anv  small  strips  nr 
parcels  of  land  now  or  hereafter  owned  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  lo  the  above-described  leased  premises,  and,  in  consideration  of  the  aforementioned 
cash  bonus.  Lessor  agrees  10  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the  land  so  covered 
(■or  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  sltul-m  royalties  hereunder,  the  umber  of  gross  acres  above  specified  shall  be  deemed  correct  whether  netually  more 
or  less,  ! 

2  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid-up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  twoffl  years  from  the  date  hereof,  and  for  us  lontt  thereafter 
as  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  are  produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  from  lands  pooled  therewith  or  this  lease  is  otherwise 
maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalties  on  oil.  gas  and  other  substances  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee  s  separator  facilities,  the  royally  shall  be  Twentv-Three  ncrccnt  f23%)  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  tn  Lessor  a:  -he 
we  mend  or  to  Lessor  s  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities/provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the 
wellhead  market  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  tor  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity;  (b)  for  gas  (including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  substances  covered  hereby  the  rov.tltv  shall  be 
IwcnlY-lhrce  percent  (23%)  of  the  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof,  less  a  proportionate  pari  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production/severance,  or 
other  exe.se  taxes  and  the  costs  incurred  by  Lessee  in  delivering,  processing  or  otherwise  marketing  such  gas  or  other  substances,  provided  thai  Lessee  shall  have  the 
tomimnng  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  (lie  same  Held  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price 
! ,Z  '!17  "g  7  V*"'  "f"',1^  fe  ?eafCS1  ficW  in  which  [here  «  S«<*  »  Prevailing  price)  pursuant  to  comparable  purchase  contracls  entered  mio  on  .he  same 
0.  nearest  preceding  date  as  the  dale  on  wh.ch  Lessee  commences  its  purchases  hereunder;  and  (c)  if  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  any  time  thereafter  one  or  more 
ttC"S  "n,l,C  kjf2  pre,miS„eS  or  lailds  P°0,ed  lller,iwilh  arc  capable  Ofeilhci  producing  oil  or  gas  or  other  substances  covered  hereby  in  paving  calamities  Or  such  wells 
arc  waiting  on  hydraulic  fracture  stimulation,  but  such  well  0r  wells  are  either  shut-in  or  production  therefrom  is  noi  being  sold  by  Lessee  such  well  or  wdls  shall 
nevertheless  be  deemed  to  be  prodicing  in  paying  ouantitics  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  this  lease.  If  for  a  period  of90  consecutive  days  such  well  or  wells  arc  <lu,i- 
!"  Tc^TlT,  ?«e-f0m  *fj  S0'd  by  L.CS  S"'  tlK'n  LWSCC  ^"WShul-in  royally  ofonc  dollar  per  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease.  Sl,eh  payment  ,o  he  made 
lo  Lessor  or  to  Lessor  s  credit  in  the  dcpos.lory  designated  belo<v,  on  or  before  the  end  of  said  90-day  period  and  thereafter  on  or  before  each  anmversary  of  the  end  of 

^  r,L>    T  T  .      'I        *?J  ?      SlU""i''  °f  pr0duction  ,herel*rom  ls  1101  bei,'S  sold  by  Lessee;  provided  that  if  this  lease  is  otherwise  being  maintained  by 

KS  dav  n?;T,Vv,tuS  S       V       "        r,hW       °r  We"S  011  tiK  M  prei,lises  or  lilI,ds  P°oled  ,h"ewiLh- 1,0  royalty  shall  be  due  until  the 

1u\a.    h. ,  Y|  Pu  fol  o^ing  cessa  .on  of  such  Operations  or  production.  Lessee's  failure  to  properly  pay  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liahle  for  the 

amount  due,  bin  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease. 

<h  Jb/t"  Sl-;iirya!t1'  Pily"ieT  UlldCr  ",iS  ,WSe  Shn"  bC  Pald  01  tCndered  10  UsS°'  0r  10  Uss0rs  c'ed'1  in  M  l"snrN,Hdr,,,ah„v,  or  i,s  successors,  winch 
shaft  be  Lessor  s  depository  agent  for  receiving  payments  regardless  of  changes  in  the  ownership  of  said  land.  All  payments  or  lenders  mav  ne  made  in  currency  or  bv 

J  ZtZ  L  h«  J^T?  °f  10  UsSOr  °f  10  lhe  deposi,or>  bV  dcP™<  in  the  US  Mails  in  a  stamped  envelope  addressed  to  the  depository  or'io  the 

f    or  ref  «  ™^™h°     T  ■      °°TT  TP"  r™"'   "*,h<  *"*  <*  be  ««^«»  by  another  i.miunion.  or  ft,  Jny  rea,on 

"  deliver  10  Lesscc  a  PW  ^wrdable  instrument  naming  another  insmufon  as  depository 

lc-«ed  D«S«anrPrJf d  ?  T.k^^T"  3"  ?T'  irjLCS'ee  IT  3  **"  W,lieh  iS  i,1Cilpab'e  °f  pr0d,,Ci"&  m  Pflyin«  t>l,amiI,es  (hereinafter  called  -dry  hole")  on  the 
t.«ed  premises  or  land  pooled  therewith,  or  .1  all  production  (whether  or  not  in  paying  quantities)  permanently  ceases  from  Wiv  cause  inckidiim  a  rem.on  of  unit 

s  o    rDroS^  r,  «™*»«*  wor^&  m  well  or  for  drillmB  an  additional  well  or  for  otherwise  obtaining  ot 

Sa    n  o  t  ll  1  Dro  duct  ion   K h'T,,"  ^  P°°'ed  90  ^  aftcr  °f  °pCrations  on  suc"  ^  hole  or  ^  d^  Lh 

h    ri  ?.  „  L1PI  t  '  6  end.0f     pnmary  iemi- or  m  »V  llltK  'bcreafter,  this  lease  is  no.  otherwise  being  maintained  in  force  but  Lessee  is  men  enwu-ed 

of  s      LTZn  !  ^ 0per,a"°,1S  *aSOm*ly  CalCl"aled  10  obBin  0f  feslore  Pf0dlictiai  Illwefr0111- tllis  "easc'srinl.  remain  ,n  force  so  long  «  , , 5  o,  e 2 

IsLXvS  I    eb    as'!  n,  Xll TXT  °'  *T  ^  90  C?"SeCUlivC  d^S»  ^  if  ^  suc"  «  the  production  of  0.1  or^oTZ) 

S  n        1     1 '        8       al    "  lhefC  'S  ProdlK;llon    Payine  qu-niities  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith .  After  completion  of  a  wdl 

Z^Si^Z^^^  ■?     ■ UsMe  sha!' dril1  suth  addiIi0,,al  we,,s  0,1  llie  ,cased  premises  or  ,a"ds  poo,ed  [h™ih « ' 

toStZ^Tl^JSLTS?  °T  sVmi,a7'rtumstances 'o  <a)  ^«°P     'cased  premises  as  to  formations  then  capable  of  producmg  ,n  paying  quan.it  ts  on  the 

'ncrcw^  fbV°  Pr0tCCl  ',?e  kaSed  Pr  ^  ft°m  ^  or  wells  located  on  odie  lands  not  poo  d 

tiitrcw  it.  I  here  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional  wells  excepi  as  expressly  provided  herein 

deoths  totSi^Tt^T  n  '  7  ",C  0bliga,i0" '°  p001  311  oriaV  part  lc«ed  prem.ses  or  interest  .herein  will,  my  other  lands  or  interests.  u.o  any  or  all 
™  r  .rt  f  a  V  ?"  ^ubsla,KCS  covcred  b>'  th«  lca«-  ei"'cr  berore  or  after  the  commencement  of  production  whenever  Lessee  deems  it  ncccssirv  oi 

P  ope.  to  do  so  n  order  to  prudently  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  no.  similar  pooling  authoritjexlsts  with  rZtSoS    .  « 

o    or^n  12 

toLTp^Zn^lu  r       •     Ty       SH,ng  °r  dC,1S"J' Pmcm  "U"  ,my  **  prescribed  or  pt-rnilltcd  ^  any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction 

S^h  SiV.^  *  ,  p,odimon-  drill,n8  0f  ^working  operations  on  the  leased  premises,  except  that  the  production  on  wh.el.  Lessor's  royalty  is 

nd  Ussee  I  al  hVve ^hi  1, ?  ^  ??  I  P™*»*™  «  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  no.  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder 
and  Lessee  shall  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contrac.ion  or  bo!?  either  be  \2  ™  S 

221  Lincoln  Ln.  j  Qf  3 


TYOIU)OH75-000 


Page  3  of  4 


describing  the  revised  unit  and  slating  the  effective  date  of  revision.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue 
oJ'  such  revision,  Ihe  proportion  of  mill  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall- Ihcrcafler  be  adjusted  accordingly.  In  the  iibsence  of  production  in 
paying  quantities  from  a  unit,  or  upon  permanent  cessation  (hereof.  Lessee  may  terminate  the  unit  by  filing  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit  and  suiting 
the  date  of  termination.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  n  cross-conveyance  of  interests. 

7.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the  fiill  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  the  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  payable  hereunder  lor  any  well  on  any 
part  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  shall  be  reduced  to  die  proportion  that  Lessor's  interest  in  such  part  of  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  lull  mineral 
estate  in  such  pun  of  tile  leased  premises. 

S.  The  interest  of  cither  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  m  part,  by  area  and/or  by  depth  or  zone,  and  the 
tights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns.  No  change  in  Lessor's 
ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding  on  Lessee  until  60 
days  alter  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  01  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  ol  ownership  to  ilie  satisfaction  ol 
Lessee  or  until  Lessor  has  satisfied  the  notification  requirement!;  contained  in  Lessee's  usual  Ibjm  of  division  order  (u  tlie  event  of  Hie  ilcaLh  ufaiiy  person  entitled  iu 
shui-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  slmt-in  royalties  to  the  credit  of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate  in  the  depository  designated  above.  Ifai  any 
lime  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shni-in  royalties  hereunder.  Lessee  may  pay  or  lender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such  persons  or  to  their  credit  in  the  depository, 
either. jointly  or  separately  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part  Lessee-  shall  he  relieved  of  all 
obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  lOlhc  transferred  interest  shall 
not  affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by 
this  lense,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  lender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this 
lease  then  held  by  each. 

°.  Lessee  may.  at  any  lime  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any 
punion  of  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereupon  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  lo  Hie 
interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby.  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  lender  shut-in  royalties  shall 
be  proportionately  reduced  m  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  or  unitized 
herewith,  in  primary  and/or  enhanced  recovery,  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises 
as  mny  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  loads, 
canals,  pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  m 
discover,  produce,  store,  treat  and/or  transport  production.  Lessee  may  use  in  such  operations,  free  of  cost,  any  oil,  gas,  water  and/or  oilier  substances  produced  on  the 
leased  premises,  except  water  from  Lessor's  wells  or  ponds.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  die 
ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a)  to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  I  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial 
lamination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  lo  any  other  lands  in  which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises  or  lands 
pooled  therewith.  When  requested  by  Lessor  in  writing.  Lessee  shall  bury  its  pipelines  below  ordinary  plow  depth  on  cultivated  lands.  No  well  shall  he  located  Ics^ 
than  200  feet  from  any  house  or  barn  now  on  (he  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder,  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pav  foi  damage 
caused  by  its  operations  10  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the"  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  commercial  timber  and  growing  crops  thereon 
Lessee  shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the 
term  of  this  lease  or  within  a  reasonable  lime  thereafter, 

1 1.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of  any  governmental 
authority  having  jurisdiction  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells,  and  the  price  of  oil.  gas,  and  other  substances  covered  hereby.  When  drilling, 
reworking,  production  or  oilier  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inahililv  to  obtain  necessary  permits,  cqiiipmcnl. 
services,  material,  water,  eleciriciiy,  fuel,  access  or  casements,  or  by  fire,  Hood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection  not  stiike  or  tahoi 
disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  n  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production  or  by  any  other  cause  not 
reasonably  within  Lessee's  control,  this  lease  shall  not  "terminate  because  of  Such  prevention  or  delay,  and  ai  Lessee's  option,  (he  period  of  Such  prevention  or  delav 
shall  be  added  to  Ihe  tenn  hereof  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  for  breach  of  any  express  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease  when  drilling,  production  oi  othei  operai  ions 
arc  so  prevented,  delayed  or  internpted. 

^  12.  In  the  event  that  Lessor,  during  ihe  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  tide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  partv  offering  to  purchase 
Irom  Lessor  a  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  nil  or  a  portion  of  the  land  described  herein,  will,  the  lease  becoming 
elective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  hereby  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writing  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address  of  the' 
otleror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  niter  receipt  of  the  notice  shall  have  ihe  prior  and 
SloofJbr  nghl  an<J  0Pt'0n  "°  PUKh*"t  lhC  'eilSe  °r  P'a[  lhereot'or  imeresl  lherc'n. covcrcd  *>y  lhe  offcr  *l t,ie  Pfice  a«d  According  to  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  in 

1 3  No  litigation  shall  be  initialed  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  nt  least  90  days  alter  Lessor  h»t  given 
Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  lo  remedy  the  breach  or  default,  within  such  period.  I»  the  event  ihe  matter  i« 
Ungated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  Or  canceled  in  whole  or  in  pail  unless  Lessee  is 
given  a  reasonable  tune  alter  said  judicial  determination  lo  remedy  the  breach  ordefault  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so 

14.  For  the  same  consideration  recited  above.  Lessor  hereby  grants,  assigns  and  conveys  iimo  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  a  perpetual  subsurface  well  bore 
casement  under  and  Lhrough  the  leased  premises  for  the  placement  of  well  bores  (along  routes  selected  by  Lessee)  from  oil  or  gas  wells  the  surface  locations  of  which 
are  situated  on  other  tracts  of  land  and  which  are  not  intended  to  develop  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith  and  from  which  Lessor  shall  have  no  right  lo 
loyalty  or  other  benefit  Such  subsurface  well  bore  easements  shall  run  wilh  the  land  and  survive  nnv  termination  ofihis  lease 

1 5.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder,  and  agrees  that  Lessee  ai  Lessee's  option  may  pay  and  discharge  any  taxes 


until  Lessee  has  been  furnished  satisfactory  evidence  thai  such  claim  has  been  resolved 

16.  N 
operations. 


16.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  to  the  contrary  in  this  lease.  Lessee  shall  not  have  any  rights  to  use  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  for  drilling  or  other 


1 7.  Lessor,  and  their  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  grants  Lessee  an  option  to  extend  the  primary  term  of  this  lease  for  an  additional  period  of  xcrofO)  .cars  from 
the  end  of  the  primary  term  by  paying  or  tendering  to  Lessor  prior  to  the  end  of  ihe  primary  term  the  saint  bonus  consideration,  terms  and  uondilions  ns  gnwied  for  Ms 

DISCLAIMER  OF  REPRESENTATIONS:  Lessor  acknowledges  that  oil  and  gas  lease  payments,  in  the  form  of  rental,  hems  ,       royalty,  are  market 

navm^                                               f«ct».s  and  that  this  Lease  is  the  product  of  good  faith  negotiations.   Lessor  understands  that  ihesc  lease 
payments  and  terms  arc  in.il  and  l.al  Lessor  entered  wlo  this  lease  without  duress  or  undue  influence.  Lessor  recognizes  that  lease  vain*  eould  Kn  tin  ,,r 
would  feuh  hi^.T    tl  Ca!TnaS-  UW°r  "kT**«?        «  -prestation*  or  assurances  were  mBde  in  the  negotiation  of  .1^1 
ould  get  UV  highest  pnee  or  different  terms  depend**  on  future  market  conditio.*.  Neither  parly  to  this  lease  will  seek  to  alter  the  terms  of  .his  ir.niaclmn 
based  upon  any  differing  terms  which  Lessee  h».s  or  may  negotiate  with  any  other  lessors/oil ;  gas  owners. 

!I!M^c^fSrVV|HE■RE0F,  ,CaSC,  is.exec,llcd  10  be  effetli«  N  Of  the  date  first  written  above,  but  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  on  the  signa.o.y  and  the 
Mgnatory  s  her,,  devisees,  editors,  adm.mstraiors,  successors  and  assigns.  whether  or  not  this  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  hereinabove  named  as  Lessor. 

LESSOR  (WHETHER  ON£  OR  MORE) 


Rakhshan  Shamim 


221  Lincoln  Lit. 


2  of  3 


Page  4  of  4 


STATE  OF  CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY  OF     LOS  ANGELES 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  on  the 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 


L?^  day  of 


by     Robinder  N.  Samudrala. 


PRAMEEU  V.  REDDY 
Commission  #  1804476 
Notary  Public  -  California 
Los  Angeles  County 
*  ^SSs^  My  comm.  Expires  Jun  27, 20121 


STATE  OF  CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY  OF     LOS  ANGELES 

This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  roe  on 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

by       Rakhstian  Shamim. 

^MEELAV.ftEDDY  J  /^fO^O<^t^/ 

Commission  #  1804476  J 

Notary  Public  -  California  f 
Los  Angeles  County 


221  Lincoln  Ln. 


3  of  3 


