Page  1  of  12 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


PAID-UP 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE  NO.  (MF  110401) 
GENERAL  LAND  OFFICE 
AUSTIN,  TEXAS 


THIS  AGREEMENT  made  and  entered  into  by  and  between  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  of  the  State  of 
Texas,  whose  address  is  Stephen  F.  Austin  Building,  1700  North  Congress,  Austin,  Texas,  78701,  hereinafter  called 
"Lessor",  hereunto  authorized  by  the  School  Land  Board,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Chapters  32  and  52  of  the  Natural 
Resources  Code  (hereinafter  called  N.R.C.),  and  amendments  thereto,  and  all  applicable  rules  promulgated  by  the  School 
Land  Board  and  Dale  Property  Services,  LLC,  whose  address  is  3000  Alta  Mesa  Blvd.,  Suite  300,  Ft.  Worth,  TX  76133 
hereinafter  called  "Lessee". 

1.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  One  Hundred  Eighty  One  Thousand  Six  Hundred  Five  00/100 

($181,605.00)  receipt  of  which  is  hereby  acknowledged,  and  of  the  covenants  and  agreements  of  Lessee  hereinafter 
contained,  does  hereby  grant,  lease,  and  let  unto  Lessee  the  land  covered  hereby  for  the  purposes  and  with  the 
exclusive  right  of  exploring,  drilling,  mining  and  operating  for,  producing  and  owning  oil,  gas,  and  all  other  hydrocarbons, 
produced  from  the  land  covered  hereby.  The  land  covered  hereby,  herein  called  "said  land"  is  located  in  the  County  of 
Tarrant  State  of  Texas,  and  is  described  as  follows:  -: 

60.188  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,  known  as,  situated  in  said  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  more  particularly 
described  in  Exhibit  "A"  attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  hereof  together  with  a  plat,  attached  hereto  as 
Exhibit  "B",  depicting  said  right-of-way  and  surrounding  area  for  purposes  of  illustration  only. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  bonus  or  other  payment  hereunder,  said  land  shall  be  deemed  to  contain 
60.188  acres,  whether  actually  containing  more  or  less,  and  the  above  recital  of  acreage  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  true 
acreage  thereof.  Lessor  accepts  the  bonus  as  lump  sum  consideration  for  this  lease  and  all  rights  and  options  hereunder. 

2.  PRIMARY  TERM:  This  lease,  which  is  a  "paid  up"  lease  requiring  no  rentals,  shall  remain  in  force  for  a  term  of 
three  years,  from  November  3rd  ,  2009  hereinafter  called  "primary  term",  and  as  long  thereafter  as  operations,  as 
hereinafter  defined,  are  conducted  upon  said  land  with  no  cessation  for  more  than  ninety  (90)  consecutive  days. 

3.  ROYALTIES:  As  royalty  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees: 

(a)  To  deliver  to  the  credit  of  Lessor,  in  the  pipe  line  to  which  Lessee  may  connect  its  well,  the  equal  1/4  part 
of  all  oil  produced  and  saved  by  Lessee  from  said  land,  or  from  time  to  time,  at  the  option  of  Lessee,  to  pay  Lessor  the 
average  posted  market  price  of  such  1/4  part  of  such  oil  at  the  wells  as  of  the  day  it  is  run  to  the  pipe  line  or  storage  tanks, 
Lessor's  interest,  in  either  case,  to  bear  none  of  the  cost  of  treating  oil  to  render  it  marketable  pipe  line  oil; 

(b)  To  pay  Lessor  on  gas  and  casing  head  gas  produced  from  said  land  (1)  when  sold  by  lessee  1/4  of  the 
amount  realized  by  Lessee,  computed  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  or  (2)  when  used  by  Lessee  off  said  land  or  in  the 
manufacture  of  gasoline  or  other  products,  the  market  value,  at  the  mouth  of  the  well,  of  1/4  of  such  gas  and  casing  head 
gas. 


1 


Page  2  of  12 

HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 

(c)  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  thereafter,  there  is  any  well  on  said  land  or 
on  lands  with  which  said  land  or  any  portion  thereof  has  been  pooled,  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas,  and  all  such  wells 
are  shut-in,  this  lease  shall,  nevertheless,  continue  in  force  as  though  operations  were  being  conducted  on  said  land  for 
so  long  as  said  wells  are  shut-in,  and  thereafter  this  lease  may  be  continued  in  force  as  if  no  shut-in  had  occurred 

(d)  Lessee  covenants  and  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize,  or  market  the  minerals 
capable  of  being  produced  from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or 
furnish  facilities  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of  flow  lines,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not 
be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee. 

(e)  If  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  all  such  wells  are  shut-in  for  a  period  of 
ninety  consecutive  days,  and  during  such  time  there  are  no  operations  on  said  land,  then  at  or  before  the  expiration  of 
said  ninety  day  period,  lessee  shall  pay  or  tender,  by  check  of  lessee,  as  royalty,  the  sum  of  $  25.00  per  acre.  Lessee 
shall  make  like  payments  or  tenders  at  or  before  the  end  of  each  anniversary  of  the  expiration  of  said  ninety  day 
period  if  upon  such  anniversary  this  lease  is  being  continued  in  force  solely  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph. 
Each  such  payment  or  tender  shall  be  made  to  the  parties  who  at  the  time  of  payment  would  be  entitled  to  receive  the 
royalties  which  would  be  paid  under  this  lease  if  the  wells  were  producing.  Nothing  herein  shall  impair  lessee's  right  to 
release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof.  In  the  event  of  assignment  of  this  lease  in  whole  or  in  part,  liability  for  payment 
hereunder  shall  rest  exclusively  on  the  then  owner  or  owners  of  this  lease,  severally  as  to  acreage  owned  by  each. 

(f)  All  royalties  not  taken  in  kind  shall  be  paid  to  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  at  Austin,  Texas,  in 
the  following  manner: 

Royalty  on  oil  is  due  and  must  be  received  in  the  General  Land  Office  on  or  before  the  5th  day  of  the  second  month 
succeeding  the  month  of  production,  and  royalty  on  gas  is  due  and  must  be  received  in  the  General  Land  Office  on  or  before 
the  15th  day  of  the  second  month  succeeding  the  month  of  production,  accompanied  by  the  affidavit  of  the  owner,  manager, 
or  other  authorized  agent,  completed  in  the  form  and  manner  prescribed  by  the  General  Land  Office  and  showing  the  gross 
amount  and  disposition  of  all  oil  and  gas  produced  and  the  market  value  of  the  oil  and  gas,  together  with  a  copy  of  all 
documents,  records  or  reports  confirming  the  gross  production,  disposition  and  market  value  including  gas  meter 
readings,  pipeline  receipts,  gas  line  receipts  and  other  checks  or  memoranda  of  amount  produced  and  put  into  pipelines, 
tanks,  or  pools  and  gas  lines  or  gas  storage,  and  any  other  reports  or  records  which  the  General  Land  Office  may  require 
to  verify  the  gross  production,  disposition  and  market  value.  In  all  cases  the  authority  of  a  manager  or  agent  to  act  for  the 
Lessee  herein  must  be  filed  in  the  General  Land  Office.  Each  royalty  payment  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  check  stub, 
schedule,  summary  or  other  remittance  advice  showing  by  the  assigned  General  Land  Office  lease  number  the  amount  of 
royalty  being  paid  on  each  lease.  If  Lessee  pays  his  royalty  on  or  before  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  royalty  payment  was 
due,  the  Lessee  owes  a  penalty  of  5%  on  the  royalty  or  $25.00,  whichever  is  greater.  A  royalty  payment  which  is  over  thirty 
(30)  days  late  shall  accrue  a  penalty  of  10%  of  the  royalty  due  or  $25.00,  whichever  is  greater.  In  addition  to  a  penalty, 
royalties  shall  accrue  interest  at  a  rate  of  12%  per  year;  such  interest  will  begin  accruing  when  the  royalty  is  sixty  (60)  days 
overdue.  Affidavits  and  supporting  documents  which  are  not  filed  when  due  shall  incur  a  penalty  in  an  amount  set  by  the 
General  Land  Office  administrative  rule  which  is  effective  on  the  date  when  the  affidavits  or  supporting  documents  were 
due.  The  Lessee  shall  bear  all  responsibility  for  paying  or  causing  royalties  to  be  paid  as  prescribed  by  the  due  date 
provided  herein.  Payment  of  the  delinquency  penalty  shall  in  no  way  operate  to  prohibit  the  State's  right  of  forfeiture  as 
provided  by  law  nor  act  to  postpone  the  date  on  which  royalties  were  originally  due.  The  above  penalty  provisions  shall  not 
apply  in  cases  of  title  dispute  as  to  the  State's  portion  of  the  royalty  or  to  that  portion  of  the  royalty  in  dispute  as  to  fair 
market  value.  The  State  shall  have  first  lien  upon  all  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  area  covered  by  this  lease  to  secure 
the  payment  of  all  unpaid  royalty  and  other  sums  of  money  that  may  become  due  to  the  State  hereunder. 


4.        POOLING:  (a)  Lessee  is  hereby  granted  the  right,  at  its  option,  to  pool  or  unitize  any  land  covered  by  this 
lease  with  any  other  land  covered  by  this  lease,  and/or  with  any  other  land,  lease,  or  leases,  as  to  any  or  all  minerals  or 
horizons.  Units  pooled  for  oil  hereunder  shall  not  exceed  160  acres  each  in  area,  and  units  pooled  for  gas  hereunder  shall 
not  exceed  in  area  640  acres  each  plus  a  tolerance  often  percent  (10%)  thereof,  unless  oil  or  gas  units  of  a  greater  size 
are  allowed  under  or  prescribed  by  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  A  unit  established  hereunder  shall  be  valid 
and  effective  for  all  purposes  of  this  lease  even  though  there  may  be  mineral,  royalty,  or  leasehold  interests  in  lands  within 


2 


Page  3  of  12 

HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 

the  unit,  which  are  not  effectively  pooled  or  unitized.  Any  operations  conducted  on  any  part  of  such  unitized  land  shall  be 
considered,  for  all  purposes,  except  the  payment  of  royalty,  as  operations  conducted  upon  said  land  under  this  lease. 
There  shall  be  allocated  to  the  land  covered  by  this  lease  within  each  such  unit  (or  to  each  separate  tract  within  the  unit 
if  this  lease  covers  separate  tracts  within  the  unit)  the  proportion  of  the  total  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  unit, 
after  deducting  any  used  in  lease  or  unit  operations,  which  the  number  of  surface  acres  in  such  land  (or  in  each  such 
separate  tract)  covered  by  this  lease  within  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  in  the  unit,  and  the  production 
so  allocated  shall  be  considered  for  all  purposes,  including  payment  or  delivery  of  royalty,  overriding  royalty  and  any 
other  payments  out  of  production,  to  be  the  entire  production  of  unitized  minerals  from  the  land  to  which  allocated  in  the 
same  manner  as  though  produced  there  from  under  the  terms  of  this  lease.  The  owner  of  the  reversionary  estate  of 
any  term  royalty  or  mineral  estate  agrees  that  the  accrual  of  royalties  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  or  of  shut-in  royalties 
from  a  well  on  the  unit  shall  satisfy  any  limitation  of  term  requiring  production  of  oil  or  gas.  The  formation  of  any  unit 
hereunder  which  includes  land  not  covered  by  this  lease  shall  not  have  the  effect  of  exchanging  or  transferring  any 
interest  under  this  lease  (including,  without  limitation,  any  shut-in  royalty  which  may  become  payable  under  this  lease) 
between  parties  owning  interests  in  land  covered  by  this  lease  and  parties  owning  interests  in  land  not  covered  by  this 
lease.  Neither  shall  it  impair  the  right  of  Lessee  to  release  as  provided  in  paragraph  5  hereof,  except  that  Lessee  may  not 
so  release  as  to  lands  within  a  unit  while  there  are  operations  thereon  for  unitized  minerals  unless  all  pooled  leases  are 
released  as  to  lands  within  the  unit.  At  any  time  while  this  lease  is  in  force  Lessee  may  dissolve  any  unit  established 
hereunder  by  filing  for  record  in  the  public  office  where  this  lease  is  recorded  a  declaration  to  that  effect,  if  at  that  time  no 
operations  are  being  conducted  thereon  for  unitized  minerals.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  4,  a  unit  once 
established  hereunder  shall  remain  in  force  for  so  long  as  any  lease  subject  thereto  shall  remain  in  force.  If  this  lease 
now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts 
is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  merely  from  the  inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  this  lease  but  Lessee  shall 
nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  4  with  consequent  allocation  of  production  as 
herein  provided.  As  used  in  this  paragraph  4,  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership  differing, 
now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises. 

(b)  Neither  unit  production  of  oil  or  gas,  nor  unit  operations,  nor  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  from  a  unit  gas  well, 
shall  serve  to  hold  the  lease  in  force  as  to  any  area  outside  the  unit,  regardless  of  whether  the  production,  maintenance  of  a 
shut-in  gas  well,  or  operations  are  actually  located  on  the  State  tract  or  not. 

(c)  Lessee  agrees  to  file  with  the  General  Land  Office  a  copy  of  any  unit  designation,  which  this  lease  is 
included  within  ninety  (90)  days  of  such  designation. 


5-  RELEASE:  Lessee  may  relinquish  the  rights  granted  hereunder  to  the  State  at  any  time  by  recording  the 
relinquishment  in  the  county  where  this  area  is  situated  and  filing  the  recorded  relinquishment  or  certified  copy  of  same  in  the 
General  Land  Office  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  its  execution  accompanied  by  the  prescribed  filing  fee.  Such 
relinquishment  will  not  have  the  effect  of  releasing  Lessee  from  any  liability  theretofore  accrued  in  favor  of  the  State. 

6.  REWORK:  If  at  any  time  or  times  during  the  primary  term  operations  are  conducted  on  said  land  and  if  all 
operations  are  discontinued,  this  lease  shall  thereafter  terminate  at  the  end  of  the  primary  term  or  on  the  ninetieth 
day  after  discontinuance  of  all  operations,  whichever  is  the  later  date,  unless  on  such  later  date  either  (1 )  Lessee  is 
conducting  operations  or  (2)  the  shut-in  well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  or  the  provisions  of  paragraph  9  are 
applicable.  Whenever  used  in  this  lease  the  word  "operations"  shall  mean  operations  for  and  any  of  the  following:  drilling, 
testing,  completing,  reworking,  recompleting,  deepening,  plugging  back  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  an 
endeavor  to  obtain  production  of  oil  or  gas,  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities. 

7.  MINERAL  USE:  Lessee  shall  have  the  use,  free  from  royalty,  of  oil  and  gas  produced  from  said  land  in  all 
operations  hereunder. 

8.  NOTICE:  In  the  event  Lessor  considers  that  Lessee  has  not  complied  with  all  its  obligations  hereunder,  both 
express  and  implied,  Lessor  shall  notify  Lessee  in  writing,  setting  out  specifically  in  what  respects  Lessee  has  breached  this 
contract.  Lessee  shall  then  have  sixty  (60)  days  after  receipt  of  said  notice  within  which  to  meet  or  commence  to  meet  all 

3 


Page  4  of  12 

i  « 

HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 

or  any  part  of  the  breaches  alleged  by  Lessor.  The  service  of  said  notice  shall  be  precedent  to  the  bringing  of  any  action 
by  Lessor  on  said  lease  for  any  cause,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  until  the  lapse  of  sixty  (60)  days  after 
service  of  such  notice  on  Lessee.  Neither  the  service  of  said  notice  nor  the  doing  of  any  acts  by  Lessee  aimed  to  meet  all 
or  any  of  the  alleged  breaches  shall  be  deemed  an  admission  or  presumption  that  Lessee  has  failed  to  perform  all  its 
obligations  hereunder.  If  this  lease  is  canceled  for  any  cause,  it  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  force  and  effect  as  to  (1 ) 
sufficient  acreage  around  each  well  as  to  which  there  are  operations  to  constitute  a  drilling  or  maximum  allowable  unit 
under  applicable  governmental  regulations,  (but  in  no  event  less  than  forty  acres),  such  acreage  to  be  designated  by 
Lessee  as  nearly  as  practicable  in  the  form  of  a  square  centered  at  the  well,  or  in  such  shape  as  then  existing  spacing  rules 
require;  and  (2)  any  part  of  said  land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  on  which  there  are  operations. 

9.  FORCE  MAJEURE:  If,  while  this  lease  is  in  force,  at,  or  after  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term  hereof,  it  is  not 
being  continued  in  force  by  reason  of  the  shut-in  well  provisions  of  paragraph  3  hereof,  and  Lessee  is  not  conducting 
operations  on  said  land  by  reason  of  (1)  any  law,  order,  rule  or  regulation,  (whether  or  not  subsequently  determined 
to  be  invalid)  or  (2)  any  other  cause,  whether  similar  or  dissimilar,  (except  financial)  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of 
Lessee,  the  primary  term  shall  be  extended  until  the  first  anniversary  date  hereof  occurring  ninety  (90)  or  more  days 
following  the  removal  of  such  delaying  cause,  and  this  lease  may  be  extended  thereafter  by  operations  as  if  such  delay  had 
not  occurred. 


10.  LESSER  ESTATE  CLAUSE:  If  this  lease  covers  a  less  interest  in  the  oil  or  gas  in  all  or  any  part  of  said  land 
than  the  entire  and  undivided  fee  simple  estate  (whether  lessors  interest  is  herein  specified  or  not),  or  no  interest  therein, 
then  the  royalties,  and  other  monies  accruing  from  any  part  as  to  which  this  lease  covers  less  than  such  full  interest,  shall 
be  paid  only  in  the  proportion  which  the  interest  therein,  if  any,  covered  by  this  lease  bears  to  the  whole  and  undivided  fee 
simple  estate  therein. 

11.  ASSIGNMENTS:  This  lease  may  be  transferred  at  any  time.  All  transfers  must  reference  the  lease  by  file 
number  and  must  be  recorded  in  the  county  where  the  land  covered  hereby  is  located,  and  the  recorded  transfer  or  a  copy 
certified  to  by  the  County  Clerk  of  the  county  where  the  transfer  is  recorded  must  be  filed  in  the  General  Land  Office 
within  ninety  (90)  days  of  the  execution  date,  as  provided  by  N.R.C.  Section  52.026,  accompanied  by  the  prescribed 
filing  fee.  Every  transferee  shall  succeed  to  all  rights  and  be  subject  to  all  obligations,  liabilities,  and  penalties  owed  to 
the  State  by  the  original  Lessee  or  any  prior  transferee  of  the  lease,  including  any  liabilities  to  the  State  for  unpaid 
royalties. 

!2-  WELL  INFORMATION:  Lessee  agrees  to  forthwith  furnish  Lessor,  upon  written  request,  with  copies  of  all 
drilling  logs,  electrical  logs,  cores  and  core  records  and  other  information  pertaining  to  all  wells  drilled  by  lessee  either  on 
the  leased  premises  or  acreage  pooled  therewith,  when  requested  to  do  so.  Said  information  shall  remain  confidential  as 
required  by  statute. 

!3-  SURFACE:  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  it  is  agreed  that  Lessee  will  not  conduct  any 
exploration  or  drilling  on  the  surface  of  the  leased  premises  or  use  the  surface  in  the  exercise  of  any  rights  herein 
granted.  Any  development  of  said  land  shall  be  by  means  of  a  directional  well  located  off  the  leased  premises,  or  by 
pooling  of  said  land  with  other  land,  lease  or  leases  as  hereinabove  provided. 

14-  COMPENSATORY  ROYALTY:  Lessee  shall  pay  a  compensatory  royalty  if  this  lease  is  not  being  held  by 
production  on  the  leased  premises,  by  production  from  a  pooled  unit,  or  by  payment  of  shut-in  royalties  in  accordance  with 
the  terms  of  this  lease,  and  if  oil  or  gas  is  sold  or  delivered  in  paying  quantities  from  a  well  located  within  2,500  feet  of  the 
leased  premises  and  completed  in  a  producible  reservoir  underlying  the  area  leased  hereunder  or  in  any  case  in  which 
drainage  is  occurring.  Such  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid  at  the  royalty  rate  provided  in  this  lease  based  on  the  value 
of  production  from  the  well  as  provided  in  the  lease  on  which  such  well  is  located.  The  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid 
in  the  same  proportion  that  the  acreage  of  this  lease  has  to  the  acreage  of  the  proration  unit  surrounding  the  draining  well 
plus  the  acreage  of  this  lease.  The  compensatory  royalty  shall  be  paid  monthly  to  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land 
Office  on  or  before  the  last  day  of  the  month  after  the  month  in  which  the  oil  or  gas  is  sold  and  delivered  from  the  well 


4 


Page  5  of  12 


HROW  Lease 
Revised  8/06 


causing  the  drainage  or  from  the  well  located  within  2500  feet  of  the  leased  premises  and  completed  in  a  producible 
reservoir  under  this  lease.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the  contrary,  compensatory  royalty  payable  hereunder  shall 
be  no  less  than  an  amount  equal  to  double  the  shut-in  royalty  and  shall  maintain  this  lease  in  effect  for  so  long  as  such 
payments  are  made  as  provided  herein. 

15.  FORFEITURE:  If  Lessee  shall  fail  or  refuse  to  make  payment  of  any  sum  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  it 
becomes  due,  or  if  Lessee  or  an  authorized  agent  should  knowingly  make  any  false  return  or  false  report  concerning 
production  or  drilling,  or  if  Lessee  shall  fail  or  refuse  to  drill  any  offset  well  or  wells  in  good  faith  as  required  by  law  and  the 
rules  and  regulations  adopted  by  the  Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office,  or  if  Lessee  should  fail  to  file  reports  in  the 
manner  required  by  law  or  fail  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  promulgated  by  the  General  Land  Office,  or  refuse  the 
proper  authority  access  to  the  records  pertaining  to  operations,  or  if  Lessee  or  an  authorized  agent  should  knowingly  fail  or 
refuse  to  give  correct  information  to  the  proper  authority,  or  knowingly  fail  or  refuse  to  furnish  the  General  Land  Office  a 
correct  log  of  any  well,  or  if  this  lease  is  pooled  or  assigned  and  the  unit  designation  or  assignment  is  not  filed  in  the  General 
Land  Office  as  required  by  law,  the  rights  acquired  under  this  lease  shall  be  subject  to  forfeiture  by  the  Commissioner,  and 
he  shall  forfeit  same  when  sufficiently  informed  of  the  facts  which  authorize  a  forfeiture,  and  when  forfeited  the  area  shall 
again  be  subject  to  lease.  However,  nothing  herein  shall  be  construed  as  waiving  the  automatic  termination  of  this  lease 
by  operations  of  law  or  by  reason  of  any  special  limitation  arising  hereunder.  Forfeitures  may  be  set  aside  and  this  lease 
and  all  rights  there  under  reinstated  before  the  rights  of  another  intervene  upon  satisfactory  evidence  to  the 
Commissioner  of  the  General  Land  Office  of  future  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  law  and  of  this  lease  and  the 
rules  and  regulations  that  may  be  adopted  relative  hereto. 

IN  TESTIMONY  WHEREOF,  witness  the  signature  of  the  Commissioner  ofHhe  General  Land  Office  of  the  State  of  Texas 
under  the  seal  of  the  General  Land  Office.      .  >       /  ) 


Approved: 
ML 

DC:  <^-i-A 
CC>-23  


5 


Page  6  of  12 


Exhibit  "A" 

Attached  hereto  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas 
Lease  dated  November  3rd,   2009,  by  and  between  the  State  of 
Texas,   as  lessor,   and  Dale  Properties,   LLC  as  lessee,  covering 
acreage  to  be  leased  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  being  part  of  the 
Hurst  Blvd. 

60.188  acres  of  land,  more  or  less,   situated  in  the  A. 
Trimble  Survey,  A-1528,   the  W.W.  Wallace  Survey,  A-1705  and  the 
H.   Bennett  Survey,  A-138.   Said  lands  being  described  in  the 
following  deeds  filed  in  the  Deeds  of  Records  of  Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  R.   L.   Parker  to  the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of 
Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in  Vol.   539,   P.   1225  of 
the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  R.  L.  Parker  to  the  State  of  Texas,  State  of 
Texas,  dated  8/6/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1371,  P.  19 
of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  H.   G.  Walker  et  ux  to  the  County  of  Tarrant, 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1217 
P.   4  87  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  Mrs.  M.S.   Hurst,   etal  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1229 
P.   92  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  Mrs.  M.S.  Hurst,   etal  being  all  the  heirs  of 
M.S.   Hurst,   to  the  State  of  Texas,   County  of  Tarrant 
dated,   10/1/1939  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1374,   P.   352  of 
the  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  Mrs.   Elsie  Bailey,   etal  to  the  County  of 
Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded 
in  Vol.   1232,   P.   40  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  H.   P.  Rose  to  the  State  of  Texas,   County  of 
Tarrant,   dated  9/16/193  8  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1368, 
P.   203  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  H.   P.  Rose  to  the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of 
Texas,   dated  11/22/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1372, 
P.   450  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 


1 


Page  7  of  12 


Deed  from  Elsie  Bailey  to  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State 
of  Texas,   dated  11/21/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1372, 
P.   4  53  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  Elsie  Bailey,   to  the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of 
Texas,   dated  11/21/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1372 
P.   452  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  R.   J.   Souder  et  ux  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 

State  of  Texas,   dated  4/18/1933  and  recorded  in 

Vol.   1217,   P.   495  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  R.   J.   Souder  et  ux  to  the  County  of  Tarrant, 

State  of  Texas,   dated  3/24/1936  and  recorded  in 

Vol.   1283,   P.   520  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  H.   H.   French  et  ux  to  the  County  of  Tarrant, 

State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in 

Vol.   1217,   P.   496  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  H.   H.   French  and  wife  Alice  French  to  the 
County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas  dated  9/25/1939 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   14  04,   P.   466  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  J.  H.   Hurst  Estate  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in  Vol. 
1230,   P.   110  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  J.  H.   Hurst  Estate,   to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  9/30/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol. 
1366,   P.   449  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  J.  M.  Williams  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in  Vol. 
1234,   P.   17  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  J.  M.  Williams  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 

State  of  Texas,   dated  10/3/1938  and  recorded  in 

Vol.   13  66,   P.   115  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 

Deed  from  Elizabeth  Blitzer  to  Tarrant  County, 

State  of  Texas,   dated  4/6/1937  and  recorded  in 

Vol.   1322,   P.   74  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County. 


2 


Page  8  of  12 


Deed  from  Ella  Frances  Hurst  and  Hammon  Hurst  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,  dated 
4/6/1937  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1322,   P.   72  of  the 
Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County- 
Deed  from  Ollie  Davis  and  wife  Lena  Mae  Davis  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,  dated 
10/17/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1366,   P.   Ill  of 
the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Louis  Engler  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/14/1933  and  recorded  in 
Vol.   1217,   P.   488  of  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant 
County 

Deed  from  Louis  Engler  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  12/9/1938  and  recorded  in 
Vol.   1365,   P.   108  of  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant 
County 

Deed  from  Louis  White  and  wife  Alvern  White  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,  dated 
9/30/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1366,   P.  125 
of  the  Deed  Records,  Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  U.S.  Anderson  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933  and  recorded  in 
Vol.   1217,   P.   489  of  the  Deed  Records,  Tarrant 
County 

Deed  from  Hugh  Souders  et  al  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  7/24/1934  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1225 
P.   623  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Leslie  Harrison  and  wife  Ruth  Harrison 
to  the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,  dated 
11/17/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1362,   P.   395  of 
the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Leslie  Harrison  and  wife  Ruth  Harrison  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  11/17/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   13  62,   P.   3  94  of  the  Deed  Records 
Tarrant  County 


3 


Page  9  of  12 


Deed  from  Leslie  Harrison  and  wife  Ruth  Harrison  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  11/17/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1373,   P.   89  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  R.   L.  Anderson  to  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State 
of  Texas,   dated  10/10/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1366, 
P.   352  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  J.   H.   Souder  and  wife  Edith  Souder  to  the 
County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  10/18/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   13  66,   P.   3  54  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Iva  Dean  Sexton  to  the  County  of  Tarrant, 
State  of  Texas,   dated  11/2/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1362 
P.   311  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  R.  W.  Anderson  and  wife  Edna  Anderson  to  the 
County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  10/12/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1362,   P.   272  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  G.   C.   Simmons  and  wife  Virgie  Simmons  to  the 
County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  10/17/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1366,   P.   178  of  the  Deed  Records 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  S.   L.  Arthur  and  wife  Mrs.   S.   L.  Arthur  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1217,   P.   499  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  B.   L.  Arthur  and  wife  Mrs.   B.   L.  Arthur  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  9/30/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1366,   P.   127  of  the  Deed  Records 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  L.  M.  Arwine  and  wife  Mrs.  Arwine  to  the  County 
of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  4/19/1933  and  recorded  in 
Vol.   1217,   P.   491  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  L.  M.  Arwine  and  wife  Mrs.  M.  A.  Arwine  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  11/7/1938 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1372,   P.   306  of  the  Deed  Records 


4 


Page  10  of  12 


of  Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  J.  P.  Buchanan  and  wife  Mrs.  J.  P.  Buchanan 
to  the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,  dated  4/20/1933 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1217,   P.   492  of  the  Deed  Records 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  C.  E.   Groves  to  the  County  of  Tarrant,  State 
of  Texas,   dated  9/30/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1366, 
P.   110  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  J.  M.  Anderson  and  Mrs.   J.  M.  Anderson  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  1/15/1935 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1239,   P.   212  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Mrs.   Hattie  Anderson  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  10/18/1938  and  recorded  in  Vol.  1366 
P.   3  51  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  T.  J.  Dickie  and  wife  Mrs.  T.  J.  Dickie  to 
the  County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  4/17/1933 
and  recorded  in  Vol.   1217,   P.   405  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  T.  D.  Dickey  and  wife  to  the  County  of  Tarrant 
State  of  Texas,   dated  7/12/193  9  and  recorded  in  Vol.   14  02 
P.   614  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Grady  Walker,   Loyd  George,   Jesse  C.  Powell 
trustees  for  the  Hurst  Common  School  District,   to  the 
County  of  Tarrant,   State  of  Texas,   dated  4/20/1933 
and  recorded  in.  Vol .   1217,   P.   408  of  the  Deed  Records, 
Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  Hurst  Common  School  District  No.   94  to  the 
the  State  of  Texas,   dated  9/3/193  8  and  recorded  in  Vol. 
14  05,   P.   159  of  the  Deed  Records,   Tarrant  County 

Deed  from  J.   E.  Wilis,   E.E.   Saunders  and  J.H.  Hackney, 
Trustees  of  the  Hurst  Baptist  Church  of  Tarrant  County 
to  Tarrant  County,   State  of  Texas,   dated  3/9/1936  and 
recorded  in  Vol.   1286,   P.   84  of  the  Deed  Records,  Tarrant 
County 


5 


Page  11  of  12 


Deed  from  Trustees  of  Hurst  Baptist  Church  of  Tarrant 
County  to  the  State  of  Texas,   County  of  Tarrant,  dated 
9/2/1939  and  recorded  in  Vol.   1406,   P.   17  of  the  Deed 
Records,  Tarrant  County 


Page  12  of  12 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 


COUNTY  CLERK 


1 00  West  Weatherford  Fort  Worth,  TX  761 96-0401 
PHONE  (817)  884-1195 


DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 

2100  ROSS  AVE  STE  1870  LB-9 
DALLAS,  TX  75201 


Submitter:    DALE  RESOURCES  LLC 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:     12/1/2009  8:21  AM 
Instrument*:  D209312924 

LSE  12  PGS 


$56.00 


By 


D209312924 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE  OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY 
BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR  RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Prepared  by:  VMMASSINGILL 


