Page  1  of  3 


Prod  88  (Rev.  8/93) 
Paid  Up 


OIL.  GAS  AND  MINERAL  LEASE 


THIS  LEASE  AGREEMENT  is  made  effective  the  13th       day  of  October,  2009,  between 

KHURRUM  MONGA  AND  WIFE,  SHABNAM  KHURRUM 

as  the  Lessor  (whether  one  or  more),  whose  address  is  713  Fannin  Lane,  Mansfield,  TX  76063-3423 

and  RANGE  TEXAS  PRODUCTION,  LLC,  as  Lessee,  whose  address  is  100  Throckmorton  Street,  Suite  1200,  Fort  Worth,  TX  76102. 

All  printed  portions  of  this  lease  were  prepared  by  Lessee,  but  all  other  provisions  (including  the  completion  of  blank  spaces)  were  prepared  jointly  by  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

1.  Description.  Lessor,  in  consideration  of  Ten  and  No/100  Dollars  ($10.00  &  OGVC),  in  hand  paid,  of  the  royalties  herein  provided  and  the  covenants  herein 
contained,  hereby  grants,  leases  and  lets  exclusively  to  Lessee,  for  the  purpose  of  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil  and  gas,  along  with  all 
hydrocarbon  and  nonhydrocarbon  substances  produced  in  association  therewith  including  helium,  carbon  dioxide  and  other  commercial  gases  as  well  as  hydrocarbon 
gases  (referred  to  herein  as  "covered  minerals"),  the  following  described  land  (the  "leased  premises^  in  TARRANT  County,  Texas,  to-wit: 

0.193  acre  of  land,  more  or  less,  a  part  of  the  Henry  Howard  Survey,  A-660,  and  being  described  in  that  certain  Special 
Warranty  Deed  with  Vendor's  Lien  dated  May  26,  2006,  from  GMAC  Model  Home  Finance,  LLC,  a  Delaware  Limited  Liability 
Company,  as  successor  by  statutory  conversion  to  GMAC  Model  Home  Finance,  Inc.,  a  Virginia  Corporation  To  Khurrum 
Monga  and  wife,  Shabnam  Khurrum,  recorded  in  Instrument  No.  D206187101  of  the  Official  Public  Records  of  Tarrant  County, 
Texas,  also  known  as  Lot  14,  Block  8,  of  Holland  Estates,  an  Addition  to  the  City  of  Mansfield,  Tarrant  County,  Texas, 
according  to  the  plat  thereof  recorded  in  Cabinet  A,  Slide  6428,  Plat  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

No  Surface  Operations.    It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  there  shall  be  no  operations  of  any  kind  conducted  on  the 
surface  of  the  leased  premises,  without  the  express  written  consent  of  Lessor. 

This  lease  also  covers  all  interest  in  the  leased  premises  now  or  hereafter  owned  or  claimed  by  Lessor  and  any  accretions  and  small  strips  or  parcels  of  land  owned 
or  claimed  by  Lessor  which  are  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  leased  premises  whether  or  not  such  parcels  are  known  to  exist  by  Lessor  or  Lessee,  and  for  the 
aforementioned  consideration,  Lessor  agrees  to  execute  at  Lessee's  request  any  additional  or  supplemental  instruments  for  a  more  complete  or  accurate  description  of  the 
land  so  covered.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  any  rentals,  royalties,  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  said  land  shall  be  deemed  to  be  comprised  of 
0.193  acre,  whether  it  actually  comprises  more  or  less. 

2.  Term  of  Lease.  This  leaseshall  be  in  force  for  a  primary  term  of  three  (3)  years  from  the  effective  date  hereof,  and  for  as  long  thereafter  as  a  covered  mineral  is 
produced  in  paying  quantities  from  the  leased  premises  or  this  lease  is  otherwise  maintained  in  effect  pursuant  to  the  provisions  hereof. 

3.  Royalty.  Royalties  on  covered  minerals  produced  and  saved  hereunder  shall  be  paid  by  Lessee  to  Lessor  as  follows:  (a)  For  oil  and  other  liquid  hydrocarbons 
separated  at  Lessee's  field  separator  facilities,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty-three  percent  (23.0%1  of  such  production,  to  be  delivered  at  Lessee's  option  to  Lessor  at  the 
wellhead  or  to  Lessor's  credit  at  the  oil  purchaser's  transportation  facilities,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such  production  at  the 
wellhead  posted  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in  the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a 
prevailing  price)  for  production  of  similar  grade  and  gravity  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  (b)  for  gas 
(including  casinghead  gas)  and  all  other  covered  minerals,  the  royalty  shall  be  twenty -three  percent  (23.0%)  of  the  net  proceeds  realized  by  Lessee  from  the  sale  thereof, 
less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes,  provided  that  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  right  to  purchase  such 
production  at  the  prevailing  wellhead  market  price  paid  for  production  of  similar  quality  in  the  same  field  (or  if  there  is  no  such  price  then  prevailing  in  the  same  field,  then  in 
the  nearest  field  in  which  there  is  such  a  prevailing  price)  less  a  proportionate  part  of  ad  valorem  taxes  and  production,  severance,  or  other  excise  taxes  and  (c)  if  at  the 
expiration  of  the  primary  term  or  at  any  time  or  times  after  the  primary  term  herein,  there  is  a  well  or  wells  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  on  leased 
premises  or  land  or  leases  pooled  therewith  but  oil  or  gas  is  not  being  sold  or  used  and  this  lease  is  not  then  being  maintained  by  production,  operations  or  otherwise,  this 
lease  shall  not  terminate,  (unless  released  by  the  Lessee),  and  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  that  oil  and/or  gas  is  being  produced  from  leased  premises  within  the 
meaning  of  Paragraph  2  herein.  However,  in  this  event,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  as  shut-in  royalty  to  Lessor,  a  sum  determined  by  multiplying  one  dollar  ($1.00)  per 
acre  for  each  acre  then  covered  by  this  lease,  provided  however,  in  the  event  said  well  is  located  on  a  unit  comprised  of  all  or  a  portion  of  leased  premises  and  other  land 
or  leases  a  sum  determined  by  multiplying  one  dollar  ($1 .00)  per  acre  for  each  acre  of  leased  premises  included  in  such  unit  on  which  said  shut-in  well  is  located.  Such 
shut-in  royalty  payment  shall  be  due  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  ninety  (90)  days  after  (a)  the  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  or  (b)  the  date  of  completion  of  such  well,  or 
(c)  the  date  on  which  oil  or  gas  ceases  to  be  sold  or  used,  or  (d)  the  date  this  lease  is  included  in  a  unit  on  which  a  well  has  been  previously  completed  and  shut-in  or  (e) 
the  date  the  lease  ceases  to  be  otherwise  maintained,  whichever  be  the  later  date.  It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  no  shut-in  royalty  payments  shall  be  due  during  the 
primary  term.  In  like  manner  and  upon  like  payments  or  tenders  on  or  before  the  next  ensuing  anniversary  of  the  due  date  for  said  payment,  the  Lessee  shall  continue  to 
pay  such  shut-in  royalty  for  successive  periods  of  one  (1)  year  each  until  such  time  as  this  lease  is  maintained  by  production  or  operations.  However,  if  actual  production 
commences  within  the  applicable  90  day  period,  a  shut-in  royalty  payment  shall  not  be  required  or,  if  a  shut-in  royalty  payment  is  tendered,  no  additional  shut-in  payment 
will  be  due  until  the  next  ensuing  anniversary  of  the  due  date  for  said  tendered  payment  regardless  of  how  many  times  actual  production  may  be  commenced  and  shut-in 
during  such  one  (1)  year  period.  Lessee's  failure  to  pay  or  tender  or  to  properly  or  timely  pay  or  tender  any  such  sum  as  shut-in  royalty  shall  render  Lessee  liable  for  the 
amount  due  but  it  shall  not  operate  to  terminate  this  lease.  Lessee  agrees  to  use  reasonable  diligence  to  produce,  utilize  or  market  the  minerals  capable  of  being  produced 
from  said  wells,  but  in  the  exercise  of  such  diligence,  Lessee  shall  not  be  obligated  to  install  or  furnish  facilities,  other  than  well  facilities  and  ordinary  lease  facilities  of 
flowline,  separator,  and  lease  tank,  and  shall  not  be  required  to  settle  labor  trouble  or  to  market  gas  upon  terms  unacceptable  to  Lessee,  if  at  any  time  Lessee  pays  or 
tenders  royalty  or  shut-in  royalty  as  hereinabove  provided,  two  (2)  or  more  parties  are,  or  claim  to  be,  entitled  to  receive  same,  Lessee  may,  in  lieu  of  any  other  method  of 
payment  herein  provided,  pay  or  tender  such  royalty  or  shut-in  royalty,  in  the  manner  above  specified,  either  jointly  to  such  parties  or  separately  to  each  in  accordance  with 
their  respective  ownerships  thereof,  as  Lessee  may  elect.  Payments  to  Lessor  under  this  lease  shall  be  made  to  the  address  of  Lessor  listed  above. 

4.  Operations.  If,  at  or  after  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained  but  Lessee  is  then  engaged  in  drilling,  reworking  or  other 
operations  calculated  to  obtain  or  restore  production  from  the  leased  premises,  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  this  lease  shall  remain  in  effect  so  long  as  such  operations  are 
conducted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  90  consecutive  days  and,  if  such  operations  result  in  the  production  of  a  covered  mineral,  as  long  thereafter  as  there  is 
production  from  the  leased  premises.  If,  after  expiration  of  the  primary  term,  Lessee  drills  a  dry  hole  on  the  leased  premises  or  if  all  production  of  covered  minerals  should 
permanently  cease  from  any  cause  either  voluntary  or  involuntary  (and  if  this  lease  is  not  otherwise  being  maintained),  this  lease  shall  remain  in  effect  if  Lessee 
commences  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  on  the  leased  premises  within  90  days  thereafter.  After  production  has  been  established  on  the  leased  premises, 
Lessee  shall  drill  such  additional  wells  as  a  reasonably  prudent  operator  would  drill  under  the  same  or  similar  circumstances  to  (a)  develop  the  leased  premises  as  to 
formations  then  capable  of  producing  in  paying  quantities  on  the  leased  premises  or  (b)  protect  the  leased  premises  from  uncompensated  drainage  by  a  well  producing  a 
covered  mineral  in  paying  quantities  located  within  330  feet  of  and  draining  the  leased  premises.  There  shall  be  no  covenant  to  drill  exploratory  wells  or  any  additional 
wells  except  as  expressly  provided  herein. 

5.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  continuing  recurring  right,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  pool  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises  or  interest  therein  with  any  other 
lands,  leases  or  interests,  as  to  any  or  all  depths  or  zones,  and  as  to  any  or  all  covered  minerals,  either  before  or  after  the  commencement  of  production,  whenever  Lessee 
deems  it  necessary  or  proper  to  do  so  in  order  to  prudently  explore,  develop  or  operate  the  leased  premises,  whether  or  not  similar  pooling  authority  exists  with  respect  to 
such  other  lands,  leases  or  interests.  A  unit  formed  by  such  pooling  for  an  oil  well  which  is  not  a  horizontal  completion  shall  not  exceed  80  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage 
tolerance  of  10%,  and  for  an  oil  well  which  is  a  horizontal  completion  or  a  gas  well  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  and  for  an  oil  well 
which  is  a  horizontal  completion  or  a  gas  well  shall  not  exceed  640  acres  plus  a  maximum  acreage  tolerance  of  10%;  provided  that  larger  units  may  be  formed  for  an  oil 
well  or  gas  well,  whether  or  not  horizontally  completed,  in  order  to  conform  to  any  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  permitted  by  any  governmental  authority  having 
jurisdiction  over  such  matters.  The  terms  "oil  weir  and  "gas  well"  shall  have  the  meanings  prescribed  by  applicable  law  or  by  regulations  of  the  governmental  authority 
which  has  jurisdiction  over  such  matters.  The  term  "horizontal  completion"  shall  mean  an  oil  well  or  a  gas  well  in  which  the  horizontal  component  of  the  gross  completion 
interval  exceeds  100  feet  in  length.  Lessee  may  pool  or  combine  the  leased  premises  or  any  portions  thereof,  as  above  provided  as  to  oil  in  any  one  or  more  strata  and  as 
to  gas  in  any  one  or  more  strata.  Units  formed  by  pooling  as  to  any  stratum  or  strata  need  not  conform  in  size  or  area  with  units  formed  as  to  any  other  stratum  or  strata, 
and  oil  units  need  not  conform  as  to  area  with  gas  units.  To  exercise  its  pooling  rights  hereunder,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit,  and 
the  effective  date  of  pooling  shall  be  the  date  of  filing  unless  provided  otherwise  in  such  declaration.  Lessee  wholly  at  its  option  may  exercise  its  authority  to  pool  either 
before  or  after  commencing  operations  for  or  completing  an  oil  or  gas  well  on  lands  lying  within  a  unit  and  any  unit  may  include,  but  is  not  required  to  include,  lands  or 
leases  upon  which  a  well  producing  or  capable  of  producing  oil  or  gas  in  paying  quantities  has  theretofore  been  completed,  or  upon  which  operations  have  theretofore  been 
commenced.  Production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  anywhere  on  a  unit  which  includes  all  or  any  part  of  the  teased  premises,  regardless  of  whether  such  production 
was  secured  or  such  drilling  or  reworking  operations  were  commenced  before  or  after  the  execution  of  this  lease  or  the  instrument  designating  the  pooled  unit,  shall  be 
treated  for  all  purposes  (except  the  payment  of  royalties  on  production  from  the  pooled  unit)  as  if  there  were  production,  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  leased 
premises  and  references  herein  to  production  from  or  operations  on  the  leased  premises  shall  be  deemed  to  include  production  from  or  operations  on  any  portion  of  such 
pooled  unit;  provided  that  if  after  creation  of  a  pooled  unit  a  well  is  drilled  on  land  within  the  unit  area  (other  than  the  leased  premises)  which  well  is  not  classified  as  the 
type  of  well  for  which  the  unit  was  created  (oil,  gas  or  other  minerals  as  the  case  may  be),  such  well  shall  be  considered  a  dry  hole  for  purposes  of  applying  the  additional 
drilling  and  reworking  provisions  hereof.  If  a  gas  well  on  a  gas  unit,  which  includes  all  or  a  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  is  reclassified  as  an  oil  well,  with  respect  to  all 
lands  which  are  included  within  the  unit  (other  than  the  lands  on  which  the  well  is  located),  the  date  of  such  reclassification  shall  be  considered  as  the  date  of  cessation  of 
production  for  purposes  of  applying  the  provisions  of  this  lease  covering  additional  drilling  and  reworking.  The  production  on  which  Lessor's  royalty  is  calculated  shall  be 
that  proportion  of  the  total  unit  production  which  the  net  acreage  covered  by  this  lease  and  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  gross  acreage  in  the  unit,  but  only  to  the 
extent  that  such  proportion  of  unit  production  is  sold  by  Lessee.  Pooling  in  one  or  more  instances  shall  not  exhaust  Lessee's  pooling  rights  hereunder,  and  Lessee  shall, 


Page  2  of  3 


Prod  88  (Rev.  8/93) 
Paid  Up 


without  the  joinder  of  Lessor,  have  the  recurring  right  but  not  the  obligation  to  revise  any  unit  formed  hereunder  by  expansion  or  contraction  or  both,  either  before  or  after 
commencement  of  production,  in  order  to  conform  to  the  well  spacing  or  density  pattern  permitted  by  the  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  or  to  conform  to  any 
productive  acreage  determination  made  by  such  governmental  authority,  or  court  order,  or  when  to  do  so  would,  in  the  judgment  of  the  Lessee,  promote  the  conservation 
of  covered  minerals  in  and  under  and  that  may  be  produced  from  the  leased  premises.  In  making  such  a  revision,  Lessee  shall  file  of  record  a  written  declaration 
describing  the  revised  unit  and  the  effective  date  of  the  revision  shall  be  the  date  of  filing  unless  provided  otherwise  in  such  declaration.  To  the  extent  any  portion  of  the 
leased  premises  is  included  in  or  excluded  from  the  unit  by  virtue  of  such  revision,  the  proportion  of  unit  production  on  which  royalties  are  payable  hereunder  shall 
thereafter  be  adjusted  accordingly,  and  such  adjustment  shall  be  made  effective  as  of  the  date  of  the  revision.  Lessee  may  at  any  time  dissolve  any  unit  formed  hereunder 
by  filing  a  written  declaration  describing  the  unit,  and  the  effective  date  of  dissolution  shall  be  the  date  of  filing  unless  provided  otherwise  in  such  declaration.  If  this  lease 
now  or  hereafter  covers  separate  tracts,  no  pooling  or  unitization  of  royalty  interests  as  between  any  such  separate  tracts  is  intended  or  shall  be  implied  or  result  from  the 
inclusion  of  such  separate  tracts  within  the  lease  but  Lessee  shall  nevertheless  have  the  right  to  pool  or  unitize  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  with  consequent  allocation  of 
the  production  as  herein  provided.  Furthermore,  the  inclusion  or  two  or  more  separate  tracts  within  the  description  of  this  lease  shall  not  be  construed  as  an  offer  by  Lessor 
or  Lessee  to  pool  the  royalty  interest  among  the  royalty  owners  of  the  separate  tracts.  As  used  herein  the  words  "separate  tract"  mean  any  tract  with  royalty  ownership 
differing,  now  or  hereafter,  either  as  to  parties  or  amounts,  from  that  as  to  any  other  part  of  the  leased  premises.  Pooling  hereunder  shall  not  constitute  a  cross- 
conveyance  of  interests. 

6.  Ancillary  Rights.  In  exploring  for,  developing,  producing  and  marketing  oil,  gas  and  other  substances  covered  hereby  on  the  leased  premises,  in  primary  or 
enhanced  recovery,  Lessor  hereby  grants  and  conveys  to  Lessee  the  right  of  ingress  and  egress  along  with  the  right  to  conduct  such  operations  on  the  leased  premises  as 
may  be  reasonably  necessary  for  such  purposes,  including  but  not  limited  to  geophysical  operations,  the  drilling  of  wells,  and  the  construction  and  use  of  roads,  canals, 
pipelines,  tanks,  water  wells,  disposal  wells,  injection  wells,  pits,  electric  and  telephone  lines,  power  stations,  and  other  facilities  deemed  necessary  by  Lessee  to  discover, 
produce,  store,  treat  and  transport  production.  In  exploring,  developing,  producing  or  marketing  from  the  leased  premises,  the  ancillary  rights  granted  herein  shall  apply  (a) 
to  the  entire  leased  premises  described  in  Paragraph  1  above,  notwithstanding  any  partial  release  or  other  partial  termination  of  this  lease;  and  (b)  to  any  other  lands  in 
which  Lessor  now  or  hereafter  has  authority  to  grant  such  rights  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premises.  No  surface  location  for  a  well  shall  be  located  less  than  200  feet 
from  any  house  or  bam  now  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  lands  used  by  Lessee  hereunder  without  Lessor's  consent,  and  Lessee  shall  pay  for  actual  damage  caused  by 
its  operations  to  buildings  and  other  improvements  now  on  the  leased  premises,  or  such  other  lands,  and  to  the  commercial  Umber  and  growing  crops  thereon.  Lessee 
shall  have  the  right  at  any  time  to  remove  its  fixtures,  equipment  and  materials,  including  well  casing,  from  the  leased  premises  or  such  other  lands  during  the  term  of  this 
lease  or  within  1 80  days  following  the  expiration  thereof.  As  a  result  of  land  development  in  the  vicinity  of  the  leased  premesis,  governmental  rules  or  ordinances  regarding 
well  sites,  and/or  surface  restrictions  as  may  be  set  forth  in  this  lease  and/or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  surface  locations  for  well  sites  in  the  vicinity  may  be  limited  and 
Lessee  may  encounter  difficulty  securing  surface  location(s)  for  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations.  Therefore,  since  drilling,  reworking  or  other  operations  are  either 
restricted  or  not  allowed  on  the  leased  premises  or  other  leases  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  agreed  that  any  such  operations  conducted  at  a  surface  location  off  of  the  lease 
premises  or  off  of  lands  with  which  the  lease  premises  are  pooled  in  accordance  with  this  lease,  provided  that  such  operations  are  associated  with  a  directional  well  for  the 
purpose  of  drilling,  reworking,  producing  or  other  operations  under  the  leased  premises  or  lands  pooled  therewith,  shall  for  purposes  of  this  lease  be  deemed  operations 
conducted  on  the  lease  premises.  Nothing  contained  in  this  paragraph  is  intended  to  modify  any  surface  restictions  or  pooling  provisions  or  restrictions  contained  in  this 
lease,  except  as  expressly  stated. 

7.  Ownership  Changes.  The  interest  of  either  Lessor  or  Lessee  hereunder  may  be  assigned,  devised  or  otherwise  transferred  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  area  or  by 
depth  or  zone,  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereunder  shall  extend  to  their  respective  heirs,  devisees,  executors,  administrators,  successors  and  assigns. 
No  change  in  Lessor's  ownership  shall  have  the  effect  of  reducing  the  rights  or  enlarging  the  obligations  of  Lessee  hereunder,  and  no  change  in  ownership  shall  be  binding 
on  Lessee  until  60  days  after  Lessee  has  been  furnished  the  original  or  certified  or  duly  authenticated  copies  of  the  documents  establishing  such  change  of  ownership  to 
the  satisfaction  of  the  Lessee.  In  the  event  of  the  death  of  any  person  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  the  credit 
of  decedent  or  decedent's  estate.  If  at  any  time  two  or  more  persons  are  entitled  to  shut-in  royalties  hereunder,  Lessee  may  pay  or  tender  such  shut-in  royalties  to  such 
persons,  either  jointly  or  separately,  in  proportion  to  the  interest  which  each  owns.  If  Lessee  transfers  its  interest  hereunder  in  whole  or  in  part,  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of 
all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to  transferred  interest,  and  failure  of  the  transferee  to  satisfy  such  obligations  with  respect  to  the  transferred  interest  shall  not 
affect  the  rights  of  Lessee  with  respect  to  any  interest  not  so  transferred.  If  Lessee  transfers  a  full  or  undivided  interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  area  covered  by  this 
lease,  the  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  divided  between  Lessee  and  the  transferee  in  proportion  to  the  net  acreage  interest  in  this  lease 
then  held  by  each. 

8.  Warranty  of  Title.  Lessor  hereby  warrants  and  agrees  to  defend  title  to  the  interest  conveyed  to  Lessee  hereunder.  Lessee,  at  its  option,  may  pay  or  discharge 
any  tax,  mortgage  or  lien  existing  against  the  leased  premises  and,  in  the  event  that  it  does  so.  Lessee  shall  be  subrogated  to  the  rights  of  the  party  to  whom  payment  is 
made  and,  in  addition  to  its  other  rights,  may  reimburse  itself  out  of  any  royalties  or  shut-in  royalties  otherwise  payable  to  Lessor  hereunder.  If  Lessor  owns  less  than  the 
full  mineral  estate  in  all  or  any  part  of  the  leased  premises,  payment  of  royalties  and  shut-in  royalties  hereunder  shall  be  reduced  proportionately  to  the  amount  that 
Lessor's  interest  in  the  leased  premises  bears  to  the  entire  mineral  estate  in  the  leased  premises. 

9.  Release  of  Lease.  Lessee  may,  at  any  time  and  from  time  to  time,  deliver  to  the  Lessor  or  file  of  record  a  written  release  of  this  Lease  as  to  a  full  or  undivided 
interest  in  all  or  any  portion  of  the  leased  premises  or  any  depths  or  zones  thereunder,  and  shall  thereafter  be  relieved  of  all  obligations  thereafter  arising  with  respect  to 
the  interest  so  released.  If  Lessee  releases  all  or  an  undivided  interest  in  less  than  all  of  the  area  covered  hereby,  Lessee's  obligation  to  pay  or  tender  shut-in  royalties 
shall  be  proportionately  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  net  acreage  interest  retained  hereunder. 

10.  Regulation  and  Delay.  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  lease,  whether  express  or  implied,  shall  be  subject  to  all  applicable  laws,  rules,  regulations  and  orders  of 
any  governmental  authority  having  jurisdiction,  including  restrictions  on  the  drilling  and  production  of  wells.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2  above,  when 
drilling,  reworking,  production  or  other  operations  are  prevented  or  delayed  by  such  laws,  rules,  regulations  or  orders,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  necessary  permits, 
equipment,  services,  material,  water,  electricity,  fuel,  access  or  easements,  or  by  fire,  flood,  adverse  weather  conditions,  war,  sabotage,  rebellion,  insurrection,  riot,  strike 
or  labor  disputes,  or  by  inability  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  market  for  production  or  failure  of  purchasers  or  carriers  to  take  or  transport  such  production,  or  by  any  other  cause 
not  reasonably  within  Lessee's  control  (commonly  referred  to  as  "force  majeure")  this  lease  shall  not  terminate  because  of  such  prevention  or  delay,  and  at  Lessee's 
option,  the  period  of  such  prevention  or  delay  shall  be  added  to  the  term  hereof.  Lessee  shall  not  be  liable  tor  breach  of  any  provisions  or  implied  covenants  of  this  lease 
when  drilling,  production  or  other  operations  are  so  prevented  or  delayed. 

11.  Breach  or  Default  An  alleged  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  of  any  obligation  hereunder  or  the  failure  of  Lessee  to  satisfy  any  condition  or  limitation  contained 
herein  shall  not  work  as  a  forfeiture  or  termination  of  this  lease  nor  cause  a  termination  or  reversion  of  the  estate  created  hereby  nor  be  grounds  for  cancellation  hereof  in 
whole  or  in  part,  and  no  litigation  shall  be  initiated  by  Lessor  with  respect  to  any  alleged  breach  or  default  by  Lessee  hereunder,  for  a  period  of  at  least  ninety  (90)  days 
after  Lessor  has  given  Lessee  written  notice  fully  describing  the  breach  or  default,  and  then  only  if  Lessee  fails  to  remedy  or  commence  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default 
within  such  period.  In  the  event  the  matter  is  litigated  and  there  is  a  final  judicial  determination  that  a  breach  or  default  has  occurred,  this  lease  shall  not  be  forfeited  or 
canceled  in  whole  or  in  part  unless  the  Lessee  is  given  a  reasonable  time  after  said  judicial  determination  to  remedy  the  breach  or  default  and  Lessee  fails  to  do  so. 
Nothing  in  this  instrument  or  in  the  relationship  created  hereby  shall  be  construed  to  establish  a  fiduciary  relationship,  a  relationship  of  trust  or  confidence  or  a  principle  - 
agent  relationship  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  for  any  purpose. 

12.  Right  of  First  Refusal.  In  the  event  Lessor,  during  the  primary  term  of  this  lease,  receives  a  bona  fide  offer  which  Lessor  is  willing  to  accept  from  any  party 
offering  to  purchase,  from  Lessor,  a  new  lease  covering  any  or  all  of  the  substances  covered  by  this  lease  and  covering  all  or  a  portion  of  the  leased  premises,  with  the 
new  lease  becoming  effective  upon  expiration  of  this  lease,  Lessor  agrees  to  notify  Lessee  in  writng  of  said  offer  immediately,  including  in  the  notice  the  name  and  address 
of  the  offeror,  the  price  offered  and  all  other  pertinent  terms  and  conditions  of  the  offer.  Lessee,  for  a  period  of  twenty  (20)  days  after  Lessee's  receipt  of  the  notice  shall 
have  the  prior  and  preferred  right  and  option  to  purchase  a  new  lease,  or  part  thereof,  or  interest  therein,  covered  by  the  offer  at  the  price  and  according  to  the  terms  and 
conditions  specified  in  the  offer. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  lease  is  executed  effective  the  date  first  above  written  ,  and  upon  execution  shall  be  binding  upon  the  signatory  party  whether  or  not 
the  lease  has  been  executed  by  all  parties  named  herein  as  Lessor. 


SHABNAM  KHURRUM 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


STATE  OF  TEXAS 


ยง 
ยง 
ยง 


GRANT  RANDY  HAMILTON 

Notary  Public,  State  of  Texas 
My  Commission  Expires 
July  20,  2013 


COUNTY  OF  TARRANT 


This  instrument  was  acknowledged  before  me  this 


day  of  October,  2009,  by  Khurrum  Monga  and  wife,  Shabnam  Khurrum. 


lotary  Public,  State  of  Texas 


Page  3  of  3 


SUZANNE  HENDERSON 


COUNTY  CLERK 


1 00  West  Weatherford   Fort  Worth,  TX  761 96-0401 


PHONE  (817)  884-1195 


RANGE  RESOURCES  CORP 

100  THROCKMORTON  STREET  1200 
FTW.TX  76102 


Submitter:    CWC  ENERGY  INC 


DO  NOT  DESTROY 
WARNING  -  THIS  IS  PART  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  RECORD. 


Filed  For  Registration:     1 2/31/2009  8:20  AM 
Instrument*:  D209337831 

LSE  3 


PGS 


$20.00 


By: 


D209337831 


ANY  PROVISION  WHICH  RESTRICTS  THE  SALE,  RENTAL  OR  USE  OF  THE  DESCRIBED  REAL  PROPERTY 
BECAUSE  OF  COLOR  OR  RACE  IS  INVALID  AND  UNENFORCEABLE  UNDER  FEDERAL  LAW. 


Prepared  by:  DBWARD 


