Bulletin of Electrical Engineering and Informatics 

Vol. 7, No. 3. September 2018, pp. 465-470 
ISSN: 2302-9285, DOI: 10.11591/eei.v7i3.1272 


□ 465 


Improving Classification Accuracy Using Clustering Technique 


Norsyela Muhammad Noor Mathivanan, Nor Azura Md.Ghani, Roziah Mohd Janor 

Center for Statistical and Decision Sciences Studies, Faculty of Computer & Mathematical Sciences, 
Universiti Teknologi MARA, 40450 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia 


Article Info 


ABSTRACT 


Article history: 

Received May 08, 2018 
Revised Jul 20, 2018 
Accepted Aug 13, 2018 


Keywords: 

Classification 
Clustering 
Feature selection 


Product classification is the key issue in e-commerce domains. Many 
products are released to the market rapidly and to select the correct category 
in taxonomy for each product has become a challenging task. The application 
of classification model is useful to precisely classify the products. The study 
proposed a method to apply clustering prior to classification. This study has 
used a large-scale real-world data set to identify the efficiency of clustering 
technique to improve the classification model. The conventional text 
classification procedures are used in the study such as preprocessing, feature 
extraction and feature selection before applying the clustering technique. 
Results show that clustering technique improves the accuracy of the 
classification model. The best classification model for all three approaches 
which are classification model only, classification with hierarchical 
clustering and classification with K-means clustering is K-Nearest Neighbor 
(KNN) model. Even though the accuracy of the KNN models are the same 
across different approaches but the KNN model with K-means clustering had 
the shortest time of execution. Flence, applying K-means clustering prior to 
KNN model helps in reducing the computation time. 

Copyright © 2018 Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science. 

All rights reserved. 


Corresponding Author: 

Nor Azura Md.Ghani, 

Center for Statistical and Decision Sciences Studies, Faculty of Computer & Mathematical Sciences, 
Universiti Teknologi MARA, 

40450 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. 

Email: azura@tmsk.uitm.edu.my 


1. INTRODUCTION 

Online commerce has rapidly grown since the past decade. The experience of purchasing goods not 
only from physical stores but also via online shopping. Consumers are provided with shopping ease and 
flexibility where they are able to search for products using specific keywords and know the product 
availability. There are millions of products on e-commerce websites such as Amazon, e-Bay, 11 street, and 
Lazada sold by thousands of sellers. On top of that, many new products are registered in these websites every 
day. The ability of the websites to quickly and accurately retrieve the desired products for the consumers is 
the key component of being successful [1]. Each product is commonly represented by metadata such as its 
title, description, category, image, price and so on, where most of them are assigned manually by human 
sellers. Unlike the title and price, it is possible to automatically classify the product categories from the 
metadata. The automatic product categorization can reduce the time and economic costs as well as improves 
the accuracy of category assignment of the same product listed by different sellers [2], Thus, precisely 
categorizing products emerged as a key issue in e-commerce domains. 

Product classification typically is addressed as a text classification with a large product taxonomy 
[3]. It is a classic topic for natural language processing where predefined categories are assigned to text 
inputs using machine learning techniques. The classification is based on the basis of significant words or 
features extracted from the text document such as the title and description of the products. In particular, there 
are three main issue when dealing with product classification which are the products sparsely distributed in a 


Journal homepage: http://journal.portalgaruda.org/index.php/EEI/index 








466 □ 


ISSN: 2302-9285 


large number of categories where the data distribution is quite skewed, the product titles and descriptions 
vary in length, and there is a possibility that the available pairs of current product title and assigned category 
are incorrect. Researchers took initiatives by conducting researches to face these problems and come out with 
good product classification model using different methodologies [1], [4]-[6], 

Data pre-processing is a crucial step in dealing with product classification. The main objective in 
going through this step is to use suitable techniques for transforming original textual data into an 
understandable format. Pre-processing is important to maintain a good retrieval performance and increase the 
accuracy of the model. The space for storing the document and time required for processing the data can be 
efficiently decreased after undergoing this process. It is a complex process that leads to the representation of 
feature extracted from the textual input. The extraction of key features or key terms helps to enhance the 
relevancy of word towards the category and document used in the study. Therefore, pre-processing is 
important to prevent additional problems in classifying the products. The preprocessing step in text mining 
usually consists three tasks such as tokenization, stop word removal and stemming [6],[7], Most of the 
previous studies applied these steps because they are important to make sure data are well-prepared before 
being used for text classification [8], 

There is a need for finding the efficient technique to deal with the increasing amount of large text 
data sets. An optimal number of attributes or features is required to classify any text documents as the 
preliminary condition. There are two ways to fulfill this requirement which are feature extraction and 
selection. In feature extraction, researcher builds a new set of feature space that a more compact based on the 
original feature space [9], Meanwhile, the researcher selects a subset of the original feature set in feature 
selection [10], It selects features that are able to discriminate samples that belong to different categories. The 
usefulness of the techniques depends on the data used in a study. Both techniques provide significant impact 
in increasing the accuracy of the data and efficiency of the processing time. 

The dimensionality of the data especially in machine learning and data mining tasks has increased 
dynamically. High dimensionality data provides difficult challenges to existing learning methods [11]. The 
presence of a large number of features tends to come out with an over fit learning model where the 
performance of the model decrease significantly during the prediction phase. Feature selection plays an 
important role in reducing the dimension of the dataset. The importance of features can be assessed with the 
availability of label information. If the feature and the class are highly correlated, then the feature is defined 
to be relevant to a class. It gives an idea to perform the feature selection after clustering the data with a 
purpose to prevent the curse of dimensionality. Then, the features are used to classify the products using 
existing classification models. The performance of a classifier depends on the early stage of pre-processing 
and features used in a study [12], It is important to ensure that the classification model is based on convenient 
data pre-processing and reliable features. Hence, this paper aims to improve the classification accuracy with 
using clustering technique. 


2. RELATED WORK 

Researchers often face difficulty to apply the conventional procedures when working with product 
title classification [12]. Many combinations had been done by them to increase the accuracy of a 
classification model. Recent studies have shown that the combination of classification and clustering models 
can provide better classification result [13],[14], Normally, a clustering algorithm is used to group unlabelled 
data into a homogeneous group based on selected features. It is an important tool to solve unsupervised 
learning problems. The purpose of the clustering algorithm is classifying the data into groups that share 
almost similar features. 

The application of clustering technique can be seen through various study areas such as health [15], 
insurance [16] and marketing [17]. This technique has been applied to different fields especially in 
information retrievals such as text mining, image segmentation, data mining, and pattern recognition [18], 
Recently, clustering technique plays an important role for proactive scheduling in cloud computing [19]. 
There are various clustering algorithms can be used by researchers, but the performance and execution time 
is different according to which one is used. There are some properties should be fulfilled to make sure the 
performance of a clustering algorithm is able to deal with noise and uncertainty, data with high dimension 
and different kind of attributes. 

There are two commonly used clustering algorithms which are K-means and Hierarchical clustering 
techniques. Previous studies often utilized these techniques to enhance the performance of their classification 
models [13], [14],[20]-[22], However, these previous studies often used one of the clustering techniques 
where there is not much comparison had been made between different clustering techniques to improve the 
performance of classification model. Alapati and Sindhu [13] stated that the K-means clustering over 
performed hierarchical clustering, but the computation time is not provided in the study. The accuracy of 


BEEI, Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 : 465 - 470 





BEEI 


ISSN: 2302-9285 


□ 467 


classification model should be improved along with the execution time. This is crucial when researcher deals 
with high-frequency data. Thus, an efficient method is needed to fulfill both requirements. 


3. RESEARCH METHOD 

In dealing with text classification, the data has to be pre-processed before applying a classification 
algorithm. This proposed method utilizes the use of feature selection in reducing the dimensionality of a 
dataset. The data used for this study have been collected from Tesco online stores using prototype web 
scrapers developed under STATSBDA project namely Price Intelligence (PI) by Department of Statistics 
Malaysia (DOSM). From the browse tree of the website, the study selected few leaf nodes where they 
represent categories. The data corpus used for this study is baby products data corpus. It contains data from 
four different categories which are baby food, baby toiletries, diapers and wipes, and milk powder. All these 
nodes altogether have 11419 items and the number of features in the product descriptions are 401. There are 
several steps involve before classifying the products in the research as shown in Figure 1. 



Figure 1. Research methodology 


The steps involved are data extraction, data pre-processing, feature extraction, feature selection and 
clustering technique. After data extraction, there are several steps involve in pre-processing the data such as 
tokenization, word stop removal, and stemming process. Then, the key steps in this phase are the feature 
extraction and selection. This study has used bag-of-word to extract the features before performing the 
feature selection to reduce the dimensionality of the data. One of the commonly used technique for feature 
selection known as correlation feature selection (CFS) technique is used in this study. 

All the steps involved are basic procedures in text mining before training the classifier except for 
applying the clustering technique to perform the reselection of features. The study used K-means and 
Hierarchical clustering to cluster the dataset before applying classification model. K-means clustering is 
based on the simple and understandable procedure to classify a given data according to a predefined number 
of clusters. 


Fet X — {x 1( x 2 ,x 3 , ., x n } be the set of data points and V — {v v v 2 ,v 3 ,..... v 4 } be the set of centers 

The steps to perform K-means clustering are, 

i. Provide the value for data point, n and cluster centers, c where in this study the n=l 1419 and c=4. 

ii. Calculate the distance between each data point, n and cluster centers, c. 

iii. Assign the data point, n to the cluster center, c whose distance from the cluster center is minimum 
compared to others cluster centers. 

iv. Recalculate the new cluster using, 

fi = (1/Cj) Y. C j l =i x i > where c. represents the number of data points in i th cluster. 

Improving Classification Accuracy Using Clustering Technique (Norsyela Muhammad Noor Mathivanan) 


























468 □ 


ISSN: 2302-9285 


v. Recalculate the distance between each data point and new obtained cluster centers. 

vi. If there is no reassigned of data point then the calculation is stopped or otherwise, it will be repeated 
from step (iii). 

Let X — {x 1; x 2 ,x 3 , ., x n } be the set of data points. 

The steps to perform hierarchical clustering are, 

i. The disjoint clustering consists of level L(0) = 0 and sequence number o is m — 0. 

ii. The least distance pair of clusters in the current clustering is identified, such as a pair of (a) and(b), 
where d\ (a) , (b) ] = min of d\ (n) , (m) ] which is the minimum overall pair of clusters in the current 
clustering. 

iii. Increment the sequence number, m — m + 1. Clusters (a) and(b) are merged into a single cluster to 
form the next clustering m. The level of the clustering is set to L(m)=d\ (n) , (m) ]. 

iv. The distance matrix, D is updated by deleting both rows and columns according to clusters (a) and (ft), 
and adding a row and column according to the new cluster. The distance between new cluster, denoted 
as (a, b ) and old cluster (c) is defined by, 

d[(c) , (a, b ) ] = min(d[(c ) , (a) ], d[(c) , (b) ]) 

v. The calculation is stopped when all the data points are in one cluster, otherwise, it will be repeated from 
step (ii). 

Clustering technique is used to enhance the performance of classification model. The proposed 
technique is done to overcome the complexity when dealing with high-frequency data. There are several 
classification algorithms used in the study which are Naive Bayes (NB), Support Vector Machine (SVM), K- 
Nearest Neighbor (KNN), and Random Forest (RF). 


4. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS 

Data with high-frequency may slow down the classification process and reduce the accuracy. 
Accuracy is the ratio of number of instances for which the outcome is correct to the total number of tests 
made. Table 1 shows the accuracy of a classifier without applying any clustering algorithms before 
classifying products in the dataset. The dataset is reduced from 401 features to 275 features through feature 
selection. The accuracy of KNN model is the best to classify the baby products compared to other three 
classification model. 


Table 1. Accuracy of Different Classification Algorithms 


Classification Model 

Accuracy 

NB 

0.3992 

SVM 

0.9887 

KNN 

1 

RF 

0.9947 


On the other hand. Table 2 shows the accuracy of a classifier after applying hierarchical and K- 
means clustering algorithms before classifying products in the dataset. When applying feature selection on 
the clustered dataset, the feature is reduced from 275 features to 257 and 260 for hierarchical and K-means 
clustering respectively. The accuracy of KNN model is still the best model to classify the baby products 
compared to other three classification models. As claimed by [23], the KNN model is a simple model but 
effective in many cases includes text mining. Similarly, Guo et.al [24] pointed out that the KNN model is one 
of the most effective classification models on a benchmark corpus in text categorization known as Reuters 
corpus of newswire stories. 


Table 2. Accuracy of Different Classification Algorithms with Clustering 


Accuracy 

Classification Model 

Classification model with 
Hierarchical Clustering 

Classification model with 
K-means Clustering 

NB 

0.4982 

0.4889 

SVM 

0.994 

0.994 

KNN 

1 

1 

RF 

0.9931 

0.997 


BEEI, Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 : 465 - 470 






BEEI 


ISSN: 2302-9285 


□ 469 


As shown in Table 3, the classification time for executing the best classification model which is 
KNN model to predict the baby products are different. When K-means clustering algorithm applied to the 
classification model, the execution time of KNN algorithm decrease compared to the classification model 
without applying any clustering algorithm. Meanwhile, the execution time sharply increases when 
Hierarchical clustering applied in the classification model. 


Table 3. Performance of K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) with Clustering 


Classification Model 

Execution Time (Second) 

KNN 

84.54 

KNN with Hierarchical clustering 

337.04 

KNN with K-means clustering 

60.09 


5. CONCLUSION 

This paper presents the results on classifying e-commerce products from online store website. The 
study has evaluated four classification models which are formed with two clustering algorithms known as 
Hierarchical and K-means clustering algorithms. It can be seen that both clustering algorithms help in 
improving the accuracy of the classification algorithms. However, the K-means clustering seems to provide 
more efficient computation time compared to Hierarchical clustering. Hence, the time for classifying the 
products can be reduced by using K-means clustering in selecting the important features. For future work, 
researchers plan to expand the size of the corpus and to include more categories for evaluation. It would be 
interesting to apply the technique towards semi-supervised learning model. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We would like to express our appreciation to the University Teknologi MARA for financial support 
under the Grant Scheme 600-IRMI/PERDANA 5/3 BESTARI (062/2018). We gratefully thank the 
Department of Statistics Malaysia for providing knowledge and data supports. 


REFERENCES 

[1] Z. Kozareva, “Everyone Likes Shopping! Multi-class Product Categorization for e Commerce,” Proceedings of the 
2015 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human 
Language Technologies, vol. 168, pp. 1329-1333, 2015. 

[2] A. Cevahir and P. A. South, “Large-scale Multi-class and Hierarchical Product Categorization for an E-commerce 
Giant,” Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Compu tational Linguistics (COLING-16), pp. 525- 
535,2016. 

[3] T. Zahavy, et al, “Is a picture worth a thousand words? A Deep Multi-Modal Fusion Architecture for Product 
Classification in e-commerce,” pp. 1-10, 2016. 

[4] V. Gupta, et al., “Product Classification in e-Commer ce using Distributional Semantics,” 2016. 
http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06083 

[5] X. Qiu, et al., “Hierarchical Text Classification with Latent Concepts,” 49th Annual Meeting of the Associatin of 
the Computational Linguistics, pp. 598-602, 2011. 

[6] S. Kumar and R. Karthika, “A survey on text mining process and techniques,” International Journal of Advanced 
Research in Computer Engineering & Technology (IJARCET), vol/issue: 3(7), pp. 2279-2284, 2014. 

[7] S. Vijayarani and R. Janani, “Text Mining: open Source Tokenization Tools - An Analysis,” Advanced 
Computational Intelligence: An International Journal (ACII), vol/issue: 3(1), pp. 37-47, 2016. 

[8] M. K. Dalai and M. A. Zaveri, “Automatic Text Classification: A Technical Review,” International Journal of 
Computer Applications, vol/issue: 28(2), pp. 37^-0, 2011. 

[9] J. C. Gomez, et al, “Highly discriminative statistical features for email classification,” Knowledge and Information 
Systems, vol/issue: 31(1), pp. 23-53, 2012. 

[10] D. Saxena, et al., “Survey on Feature Extraction methods in Object,” International Journal of Computer 
Applications, vol/issue: 166(11), pp. 11-17,2017. 

[11] H. Liu and H. Motoda, “Computational methods of feature selection,” Computer, vol/issue: 198(1), pp. 2-13, 2008. 

[12] H. Yu, et al., “Product Title Classification versus Text Classification,” Csie.Ntu.Edu.Tw, pp. 1-25, 2012. 

[13] Y. K. Alapati and K. Sindhu, “Combining Clustering with Classification : A Tech nique to Improve Classification 
Accuracy,” Lung Cancer, vol/issue: 32(57), pp. 3, 2016. 

[14] A. Bansal, et al., “Improved K-mean Clustering Algorithm for Prediction Analysis using Classification Technique 
in Data Mining,” International Journal of Computer Applications, vol/issue: 157(6), pp. 975-8887, 2017. 

[15] A. Alsayat and H. El-Sayed, “Efficient genetic K-means clustering for health care knowledge discovery,” 2016 
IEEE/ACIS 14th International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and Applications, 
SERA 2016, 2016. 


Improving Classification Accuracy Using Clustering Technique (Norsyela Muhammad Noor Mathivanan) 



470 □ 


ISSN: 2302-9285 


[16] F. Karamizadeh and S. A. Zolfagharifar, “Using the clustering algorithms and rule-based of data mining to identify 
affecting factors in the profit and loss of third party insurance, insurance company auto,” Indian Journal of Science 
and Technology , vol/issue: 9(7), 2016. 

[17] P. Wankhade and R. Shelke, “Analysis Of Clustering Technique In Marketing Sector,” International Journal For 
Research In Applied Science & Engineering Technology (Ijraset), vol/issue: 5(11), pp. 209-211, 2017. 

[18] M. Alaqtash, et al., “A Modified Overlapping Partitioning Clustering Algorithm for Categorical Data Clustering,” 
vol/issue: 7(1), 2018. 

[19] R. Kaur and G. Kaur, “Proactive Scheduling in Cloud Computing,” vol/issue: 6(2), pp. 174-180, 2017. 

[20] S. A. Ali, et al., “K-means clustering to improve the accuracy of Decision tree response classification,” Information 
Technology Journal, vol/issue: 8(8), pp. 1256-1262, 2009. 

[21] S. D. Sarkar, et al, “A Novel Feature Selection Technique for Text Classification Using Naive Bayes,” 
International Scholarly Research Notices, pp. 1-10, 2014. 

[22] B. Madasamy and J. J. Tamilselvi, “Improving classification Accuracy of Neural Netw- ork through Clustering 
Algorithms,” vol/issue: 4(9), pp. 3242-3246, 2013. 

[23] D. Fland, et al., “Principles of data mining. Drug safety : an international journal of medical toxicology and drug 
experience,” vol. 30, 2001. 

[24] G. Guo, et al., “kNN Model-Based Approach in Classification,” On The Move to Meaningful Internet Systems 
2003: CoopIS, DOA, and ODBASE, vol. 2888, pp. 986-996, 2003. 


BEEI, Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 : 465 - 470 





