IMPACT:  International  Journal  of  Research  in 
Humanities,  Arts  and  Literature  (IMPACT:  LJRHAL) 
ISSN(E):  2321-8878;  ISSN(P):  2347-4564 
Vol.  2,  Issue  7,  Jul  2014, 167-172 
©  Impact  Journals 

MALNUTRITION  AMONG  3-5  YEARS  OLD  CHILDREN  IN  THE  HAOR  BASIN  OF 
BANGLADESH:  A  CROSS-SECTIONAL  STUDY 

MD.  TOWHIDUL  ISLAM1  &  FARAH  SYEDA  HASIN2 

'Development  Researcher  at  Caritas,  Dhaka,  Bangladesh 
2Doctor  and  Lecturer,  Sirajul  Islam  Medical  College,  Dhaka,  Bangladesh 

ABSTRACT 

The  main  aim  of  this  article  is  to  identify  factors  contributing  to  malnutrition  among  3  to  5  years  old  children 
living  in  Haor"  Basin  of  Bangladesh.  Two  thousand  and  four  hundred  ninety  eight  (2498)  children  aged  between 
3  to  5  years  were  chosen  randomly  from  forty  primary  schools'3  in  Kishoreganjc  district  according  to  the  cross-sectional 
design.  The  nutritional  status  of  the  children  was  assessed  using  a  weight-for-age  z-scored  based  on  the  World  Health 
Organization  2007  cut-off  points.  The  overall  prevalence  rate  of  underweight  children  was  18.2%.  There  was  no  significant 
difference  in  the  prevalence  rate  between  males  and  females  (p=0.787).  However,  the  percentage  of  underweight  children 
was  slightly  higher  among  females  (18.9%)  compare  to  males  (17.6%).  There  was  association  between  parents'  education 
level  or  employment  status  and  childhood  malnutrition  (p=0.003).  Malnutrition  is  significantly  associated  with  living  in 
unsafe  environment,  and  at  least  lacking  access  to  proper  health  facilities. 

KEYWORDS:  Children,  Unhygienic  Living  Environment,  Underweight,  Haor  Basin,  Bangladesh 
INTRODUCTION 

Socio-demographic  factors  such  age,  sex,  family  size  and  number  of  children  may  indirectly  contribute  to  a 
child's  nutritional  status  and  affect  child  health.  The  complex  etiology  of  childhood  malnutrition  is  a  multifactorial  process 
and  related  to  many  socioeconomic  and  socio-demographic  factors. 

The  primary  determinants  of  malnutrition  were  unsatisfactory  food  intake,  severe  and  repeated  infections, 
and  affects  of  helminthes,  or  combination  of  the  three.  The  nutritional  status  of  children  may  also  be  affected  by 
socio-economic  and  demographic  factors  such  as  paternal  and  maternal  occupation  and  education,  marital  status, 
family  income,  nutritional  knowledge  of  mothers,  location  of  house  (urban  or  rural,  flood  prone  or  dry  land),  gender  and 
water  supply  or  unsafe  water. 

The  sex  of  children  is  an  important  influential  factor  in  determining  nutritional  status.  Some  small  scale  studies  on 
gender  differences  in  anthropometric  status  found  female  children  in  Bangladesh  to  be  at  disadvantage.  Some  have  found 
no  gender  differences  and  a  few  have  revealed  male  children  to  be  more  often  stunted  or  underweight. 


a  Haor  is  a  bowl  shaped  area.  It  covers  seven  districts  of  Bangladesh.  Kishoreganj  is  one  of  the  Haor  surrounded  areas  in 
Bangladesh 

b  A  primary  school  is  a  place  where  students  aged  from  1  to  10  years  can  learn  primary  education 

c  The  Kishoreganj  district  is  near  to  Dhaka  (capital  city  of  Bangladesh)  and  also  one  of  the  haor  areas  which  is  considered 
most  vulnerable  in  terms  of  lacked  behind  of  basic  facilities  like  health,  education,  clean  water,  medical  treatment 
d  z-score  of  <-2  is  considered  to  be  malnourished 


7 

n 

Tpact 

ournais 

Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


168 


Md.  Towhidul  Islam  &  Farah  Syeda  Hasin 


The  family-size  and  number  of  children  living  in  the  same  house  are  important  factors  for  nutritional  status  of  the 
children,  which  reflects  the  quality  of  care  given  to  those  children.  A  study  done  to  assess  the  nutritional  status  of  children 
aged  6  to  59  months  in  a  city  of  Zambia,  in  2005  showed  that  43%  of  undernourished  children  were  associated  with 
extended  families  (five  to  seven  members)  while  36%  were  associated  with  nuclear  families  (two  to  four  members). 

One  important  factor  relating  to  childhood  nutrition  is  the  members'  education.  Many  studies  have  demonstrated 
that  improvements  in  secondary  school  enrollment  rates  among  females  are  estimated  to  be  responsible  for  43%  of  the  total 
15.5%  decline  in  the  childhood  underweight  rate  in  developing  countries  during  the  period  1970-1995.  The  father's 
education  also  emerged  as  an  important  factor  that  was  significantly  associated  with  underweight  status  among  under-five 
children.  Analysis  showed  that  children  whose  fathers  had  got  scope  to  achieve  higher  education  had  lower  levels  of 
weight  deficiency  than  those  with  non-literate  fathers.  Usually,  in  Bangladeshi  society  male  members  especially  father  is 
the  main  bread  earner  and  decision  maker  in  a  family;  so  their  higher  education  plays  an  important  role  in  ensuring  better 
nutritional  status  of  children. 

Geographical  location  also  plays  an  significant  role  in  child's  nutritional  status  especially  in  haor  basin  every  year 
flash  flood  destroy  the  crops  which  in  turn  increase  the  vulnerability  of  the  families  mainly  children  who  are  the  main 
victim  of  scarcity  of  food.  The  70%  respondents  said  that  flash  fold  affects  severally  to  their  food  intake  and  often  forced 
them  to  take  one  meal  a  day.  The  poor  food  intake  is  main  cause  behind  malnutrition  among  children  as  the  general 
perception  of  the  respondents  of  the  study  area.  Nutritional  status  is  the  status  of  a  complex  interaction  between  the  foods 
we  eat,  our  overall  health  and  the  environment  in  which  we  live,  food,  health  and  caring  are  the  three  in 
"pillars  of  well-being  ranking". 

Basic  services,  such  as  electricity  and  water  supply,  have  been  disrupted,  and  a  rise  in  food  prices  has  affected 
food  security  at  the  household  level.  Further,  forced  people  to  live  with  acute  poverty.  This  will,  in  turn,  cause  malnutrition 
among  family  members,  especially  male  and  female  children. 

METHODOLOGY  OF  THE  STUDY 

A  cross-sectional  survey  design  was  used;  the  sample  size  was  2498  aged  between  3  and  5  years  selected 
randomly  from  4  different  primary  schools  in  Kishoreganj  district  in  July,  201 1.  A  list  of  50  primary  schools  was  collected 
from  district  education  department  office  and  then  forty  schools  were  selected  from  different  areas  of  the  district, 
representing  both  high  and  low  socio-economic  classes.  Subsequently,  a  complete  list  of  students'  names  in  each  of  the 
selected  primary  schools  was  obtained,  and  62  children  from  each  school  were  then  identified  by  employing  simple 
random  sampling  method. 

Sample  size  calculation  was  done  by  using  following  formula: 

a  —  

Where: 

Z  =  Z  value  (e.g.  1.96  for  95%  confidence  level) 

p  =  percentage  picking  a  choice,  expressed  as  decimal  (.5  used  for  sample  size  needed) 
|  Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us  | 


Malnutrition  among  3-5  Years  Old  Children  in  the  Haor  Basin  of  Bangladesh:  A  Cross-Sectional  Study 


169 


c  =  confidence  interval,  expressed  as  decimal  (e.g.,  .04  =  +4) 
Thus,  the  minimum  sample  -size  calculated  was  2498. 

Malnutrition  in  the  study  was  assessed  by  under-weight  status  or  low  weight-for-age  z  score  as  an  indicator  of 
childhood  maturation.  Underweight  is  2  z-score  below  the  international  reference  for  weight-for-age.  The  z-scores  were 
calculated  for  a  child's  weight-for-age  z-score  as  an  indicator  of  childhood  malnutrition.  Underweight  is  2  z-score  below 
the  international  reference  for  weight-for-age. 

Parents'  educational  level  is  defined  in  this  study  as  either  low  (ranging  from  non-literacy  to  primary  education 
only)  or  high  (secondary  school,  generally  the  final  stage  of  compulsory  education,  and/  or  university  degree). 

RESULTS 

The  prevalence  of  malnutrition  in  this  study  was  18.25.  The  mean  age  of  children  was  4.83.  The  family  size  is 
4.56  and  according  to  Bangladesh  Bureau  of  Statistics  (BBS,  2011).  The  minimum  number  of  children  in  a  family  ranged 
between  1-3  and  maximum  6-8. 

More  than  90%  of  the  respondents'  parents  were  still  married.  The  most  common  level  of  education  in  mothers 
was  at  high  level  with  30%,  with  70%  educated  to  a  low  level.  Among  fathers,  11.4%  were  educated  to  a  high  level, 
with  88.6%  educated  to  a  low  level.  The  highest  rate  of  malnourishment  in  children  was  found  in  the  low-education  group, 
it  was  17.4%.  Almost  96%  of  the  fathers  were  working  and  only  4%  not  working.  Among  the  mothers,  55%  were  working 
and  45%  were  not  working.  The  largest  percent  age  of  malnourishment  was  among  the  children  of  working  mothers 
(19.4%). 

There  was  no  significant  difference  (p=0.787)  between  males  and  females  regarding  malnutrition,  though  the  level 
of  underweight  was  higher  in  females  (18.9%)  than  in  males  (17.6%).  Marital  status  (p=0. 113),  mother's  education 
(p=  0.007),  father's  education  (p=0.023)  showed  significant  association  with  children's  nutritional  status.  There  was  a 
relationship  between  insecure  living  environment  and  child's  nutritional  status  where  there  was  a  significant  relationship 
between  families  with  a  member  evicted  from  land  as  a  result  of  soil  erosion  in  last  one  year  with  p=0.017  and  prevalence 
odds  ratio  (POR)  of  2.4,  which  means  that  families  in  which  lost  land  due  to  flash  or  lost  crops  and  fall  in  poverty  had 
2.4  times  greater  chance  of  having  malnourished  children.  The  relationship  between  living  in  a  flood  prone  area 
i.e.,  in  Haor  basin  and  child's  nutritional  status  was  also  significant  with  a  p  value  of  0.003  and  prevalence  odds 
ratio  of  2.3  while  a  family  moving  from  their  house  because  of  land  lose  was  not  significantly  associated  with  child's 
malnutrition  status. 

DISCUSSIONS  AND  CONCLUSIONS 

No  significant  difference  in  the  prevalence  of  malnutrition  between  male  and  female  respondents  (p=0.787)  were 
found.  However,  the  level  of  underweight  was  higher  among  females  (18.9%)  than  among  males  (17.6%).  The  findings  of 
this  study  are  supported  by  other  studies  done  in  India,  Pakistan.  However,  according  to  another  study  conducted  in  the 
same  area  i.e.,  Haor  basin  ensured  that  there  is  no  difference  in  weight-for-age  or  weight-for-height  between  boys  and  girls 
in  the  Haor  area.  Also  revealed  a  truth  that  girls  are  more  vulnerable  or  have  a  greater  possibility  of  reaching  potential 
linear  growth.  This  could  suggest  that  girls  of  Bangladesh  are  biologically  stronger  at  an  early  age.  However,  there  was 
significant  relationship  between  lacks  of  proper  medical  facilities  in  rural  areas  of  Haor  basin  with  child's  nutritional  heath. 
|  Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.ii  unals.us  | 


170 


Md.  Towhidul  Islam  &  Farah  Syeda  Hasin 


In  this  study,  the  most  common  level  of  education  among  both  mothers  and  fathers  was  low 
(70.0%  and  88.6%  respectively).  The  low  educational  level  ranged  from  non-literacy  to  primary  education  while  the 
highly-educated  group  attended  secondary  schools  and  universities.  The  prevalence  of  underweight  was  higher  among 
children  of  low-educated  fathers  (22.7%)  and  low  educated  mothers  (24.0%)  compared  to  those  of  more  highly  educated 
parents.  The  association  between  parents'  educational  level  and  childhood  malnutrition,  however,  was  significant 
(p=0.007  for  the  mother's  education  and  p=0.023  for  the  father's  education).  The  unstable  natural  calamity  in  Haor  basin  in 
the  last  four  to  five  years  affects  family  and  child  health.  If  we  looking  ten  years  back  we  will  find  all  most  all  villages  in 
Haor  basin  remain  outside  of  natural  calamity.  Flash  flood  and  recurrent  flood  were  not  a  regular  phenomenon. 
So,  all  respondents  termed  the  change  behavior  of  climate  as  change  in  climate. 

In  this  study,  the  higher  percentage  of  families  (45%)  that  had  involved  in  seasonal  migration  from  their  living 
place  because  of  erosion  of  cultivable  land  and  years  after  years  the  situation  became  worst  at  the  Haor  basin. 
This  could  have  affected  children's  health  as  they  stayed  in  other's  house  or  relatives'  houses  where  food  intake  may  not 
have  been  satisfactory.  Of  the  respondents'  parents,  38%  said  that  their  living  area  was  not  secure  while  23%  of  families 
had  one  member  killed  in  the  flash  flood  or  storm  surge,  leaving  either  father  or  mother  with  the  sole  responsibility  for 
providing  food  and  supplies  to  the  family. 

The  association  between  insecure  living  areas,  a  family  goes  in  vulnerable  position  and  childhood  malnutrition 
was  significant.  This  result  is  supported  by  other  studies.  Various  researches  proved  that  people/families  living  in  Haor 
during  and  after  the  flood  are  more  malnourished  and  higher  mortality  rates  than  the  high  land  area.  Major  improvements 
in  nutritional  status  and  a  decline  in  mortality  were  found  among  children  of  those  residential  areas  which  are  flood  free. 
Stunting  and  low  weight-for-age  were  significantly  higher  among  children  from  families  with  low  socio-economic  status 
and  migrants.  Comparison  of  these  data  with  an  earlier  nutritional  survey  in  the  area  showed  that  the  nutritional  status  of 
children  in  Haor  basin  had  worsened  because  of  successive  land  erosion  and  lower  food  supply  during  monsoon  period. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  article  is  final  product  of  a  survey  conducted  by  a  NGO  in  their  working  area.  The  Executive  Director  of  the 
concerned  NGO  has  given  his  permission  to  publish  the  result  without  which  it  would  not  have  been  possible. 
We  acknowledged  our  deepest  love  to  him  for  his  assistance  and  concern  to  us. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Alam,  N.,  Henry,  F.  J.,  &  Rahaman,  M.  M.  Reporting  errors  in  one-week  diarrhoea  recall  surveys:  Experience 
from  a  prospective  study  in  ruralBangladeshl989.  International  Journal  of  Epidemiology.  1989;  18(3),  697-700. 

2.  Bajracharya,  D.  (2003).  Myanmar  experiences  in  sanitation  and  hygiene  promotion:  lessons  learned  and  future 
directions.  International  Journal  of  Environmental  Health  Research.2000;  13(1):  141-152. 

3.  Barreto,  M.  L.,  Genser,  B.,  Strina,  A.,  Teixeira,  M.  G,  Assis,  A.  M.,  Rego,  R.  F.,  et  al.  Effect  of  city-wide 
sanitation  programme  on  reduction  in  rate  of  childhood  diarrhoea  in  northeast  Brazil:  assessment  by  two  cohort 
studies.  Lancet.  2007;  370(9599),  1622-1628. 


Index  Copernicus  Value:  3.0  -  Articles  can  be  sent  to  editor@impactjournals.us 


Malnutrition  among  3-5  Years  Old  Children  in  the  Haor  Basin  of  Bangladesh:  A  Cross-Sectional  Study 


171 


4.  Hasan,  K.  Z.,  Patwary,  M.  Y.,  Huttly,  S.  R.,  Rahaman,  M.  M.,  et  al.  Reduction  in  diarrhoeal  diseases  in  children  in 
rural  Bangladesh  by  environmental  and  behavioral  modifications.  Transactions  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Tropical 
Medicine  and  Hygiene.  1990;  84(3),  300-301. 

5.  M.  N.  H.  Khanl,  M.  Y.  Mia2  and  M.  R.  Hossain  (2012)  Impacts  of  Flood  on  Crop  Production  in  Haor  Areas  of 
Two  Upazillas  in  Kishoregonj,  J.  Environ.  Sci.  &  Natural  Resources.  2012;  5(1):  193  -  198. 

6.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haor 

7.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Education  in  Bangladesh 

8.  http://ibtra.com/pdf/journal/v2_nl_article4.pdf 


Impact  Factor(JCC):  1.3648  -  This  article  can  be  downloaded  from  www.impactjournals.us 


