Page  1  of  9 


Electronically  Recorded  Tarrant  County  Texas 

Official  Public  Records  2/8/2010  4:19  PM  D210029303 

-  -  ■  ^  ^  ^^fflego/ Arlington  Non  Surface  Lease 

NOTICE  OF  CONFIDENTIALITY  RIGHTS;  IF  YOU  ARE  A  NATURAL  PERSON,  YOU  MAY  REMOVE  OR  STRIKE  ANY  OR  ALL  OF 
THE  FOLLOWING  INFORMATION  FROM  ANY  INSTRUMENT  THAT  TRANSFERS  AN  INTEREST  IN  REAL  PROPERTY  BEFORE  IT 
IS  FILED  FOR  RECORD  IN  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS:  YOUR  SOCIAL  SECURITY  NUMBER  OR  YOUR  DRIVER'S  LICENSE  NUMBER. 

OIL  AND  GAS  LEASE 
(Paid-Up  Lease) 

This  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  (this  "Lease")  is  executed  and  effective  as  of  the  date  of  acknowledgment  of  the  respective  parties  between 
The  Voss  Family  Trust,  by  and  through  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E  Voss,  trustees,  (hereafter  called  "Lessor"),  whose  address  is  7444  Val 
Verde  Ct  Loomis,  CA  95650,  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.  (hereafter  called  "Lessee"),  with  offices  located  at  1000  Louisiana  Street,  Suite  1500, 
Houston,  Texas  77002. 


1.  Grant,  In  consideration  of  Ten  Dollars  and  other  consideration  in  hand  paid,  Lessor  grants  and  leases  exclusively  unto 
Lessee  the  land  described  in  attached  Exhibit  "A"  (the  "Land")  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  exploring,  drilling,  and 
producing  oil  and  gas,  and  to  produce,  save  and  transport  oil  and  gas  and  other  products  manufactured  from  oil  and  gas  produced  from  the  Land 
and/or  Leased  Premises  (defined  herein),  but  only  as  the  Land  covers  those  depths  from  the  surface  to  the  base  of  the  Barnett  Shale  formation  or 
the  stratigraphic  equivalent  thereof  and  only  to  the  extent  such  Land  is  included  in  the  lands  described  in  Exhibits  "B-l"  and  "B-2"  ("Leased 
Premises"). 

This  lease  also  covers  and  includes  any  interest  which  Lessor  may  own  in  any  street,  alley,  highway,  railroad,  canal,  river,  body  of 
water,  or  any  other  land  contiguous  or  adjacent  to  the  land  described  above,  whether  the  same  be  in  said  survey  or  surveys  or  in  adjacent  surveys, 
although  not  included  within  the  boundaries  of  the  land  particularly  described  above. 

2.  Primary  Term.  This  Lease  is  for  a  term  of  eighteen  (18)  months  from  this  date  (called  "Primary  Term")  and  ao  long 
thereafter  as  oil  or  gas  is  produced  from  the  Land  in  paying  quantities. 

3.  Minerals  Covered.  This  Lease  covers  only  oil  and  gas.  The  term  "oil  and  gas"  means  oil  gas,  and  other  liquid  and 
gaseous  hydrocarbons  produced  through  a  well  bore. 

4.  Royalty.  The  royalty  share  for  all  oil  and  gas  under  this  Lease  shall  be  25%. 

Lessor's  royalty  shall  never  bear  or  be  chargeable  with,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  any  part  of  the  costs  or  expenses  of  production,  gathering, 
dehydration,  compression,  transportation,  manufacturing,  processing,  treating,  marketing,  or  depreciation  of  any  plant  or  other  facility  or  facilities 
or  equipment  for  processing  or  treating  of  the  oil  or  gas  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises  or  any  other  costs  of  a  similar  nature.  Gas  shall  be 
priced  at  the  point  of  sale  to  a  third  parry  and  not  at  the  well  unless  an  arms  length  sale  to  a  third  party  occurs  at  that  point 

Upon  written  request  and  reasonable  notice  by  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  make  available  to  Lessor  or  Lessor's  authorized  representative  for  inspection 
and  examination  the  books  and  accounts,  receipts,  well  records,  and  all  contracts  and  other  records  pertaining  to  the  production,  transportation, 
sale,  and  marketing  of  the  oil  and  gas  produced  on  the  Leased  Premises  which  relate  to  or  have  bearing  on,  in  any  manner,  the  royalty  to  be 
received  by  Lessor  hereunder.  Any  inspection  or  examination  shall  be  done  at  Lessee's  principal  place  of  business  during  normal  working  hours. 

Any  use  of  oil  or  gas  produced  from  gas  well  operations  on  or  under  the  Leased  Premises  shall  be  included  in  calculating  revenue  and  payment  of 
royalties  from  the  well  production. 

5.  Shut-in  Royalty.  While  there  is  a  gas  well  on  this  Lease  or  on  lands  pooled  with  the  Land  capable  of  producing  in  paying 
quantities,  but  gas  is  not  being  sold,  at  the  end  of  the  Primary  Term  or  any  time  thereafter,  Lessee  shall  pay  or  tender  in  advance  an  annual  shut-in 
royalty  of  $5,000  for  each  well  from  which  gas  is  not  being  sold.  Payment  with  respect  to  a  well  will  be  due  within  60  days  after  the  well  is  shut- 
in  and  shall  be  proportionately  reduced  to  Lessor's  percentage  of  acreage  in  the  pooled  unit.  While  shut-in  royalty  payments  are  timely  and 
properly  paid,  this  Lease  will  be  held  as  a  producing  lease.  The  right  of  Lessee  to  maintain  this  Lease  in  force  by  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalty 
is  limited  to  a  period  of  three  cumulative  years  during  which  the  well  is  actually  shut-in.  The  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay  shut-in  royalty  is  a 
condition  and  not  a  covenant  The  payment  or  tender  of  royalty  under  this  paragraph  maybe  made  by  the  check  of  Lessee  mailed  or  delivered  to 
the  parties  entitled  thereto  on  or  before  the  due  date. 

6.  Continuous  Development 

(a)  If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term,  oil  or  gas  is  not  being  produced  from  the  Leased  Premises,  but  Lessee  has  commenced  the 
drilling  of  a  well  on  the  Leased  Premises,  the  Lease  will  not  terminate  but  will  remain  in  effect  for  so  long  thereafter  as  operations  are  carried  out 
with  due  diligence  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  days,  and  if  the  operations  result  in  the  production  of  oil  or  gas,  the  Lease  shall  remain  in 
force  as  otherwise  provided  herein.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Lease,  the  term  "operations"  means  operations  for  any  of  the  following:  drilling, 
testing,  completing,  reworking,  rccomplcting,  deepening,  plugging  back,  or  repairing  of  a  well  in  search  for  or  in  the  endeavor  to  obtain 
production  of  oQ  or  gas. 

(b)  If  this  Lease  is  maintained  beyond  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  by  production  or  otherwise,  it  will  remain  in  force  as  to  all 
acreage  and  depths  as  long  as  there  is  no  lapse  of  more  than  120  days  between  the  completion  of  one  well  and  the  commencement  of  the  actual 
drilling  of  another  well.  The  commencement  of  actual  drilling  means  the  penetration  of  the  surface  with  a  drilling  rig  capable  of  drilling  to  the 
anticipated  total  depth  of  the  welL  After  a  well  is  commenced,  drilling  operations  must  continue  in  a  good  and  workmanlike  manner  in  a  good 
faith  effort  to  reach  the  anticipated  total  depth  with  no  cessation  of  operations  for  more  than  60  consecutive  days.  A  well  will  be  deemed  to  have 
been  completed  on  the  date  of  the  release  of  the  drilling  rig  from  the  drill  site  and  any  completion  operations  cease.  The  permitted  time  between 
wells  shall  be  cumulative  so  that  if  a  well  is  commenced  prior  to  the  date  it  is  required  to  be  commenced,  the  number  of  days  prior  to  the  date  on 
which  the  well  should  have  been  commenced  shall  be  added  to  the  time  permitted  for  the  next  welL 

(c)  If  at  any  time  the  maximum  time  for  the  commencement  of  the  actual  drilling  of  a  well  expires  without  the  commencement  of  the 
well,  or  upon  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  if  the  Lease  is  not  maintained  by  continuous  drilling  or  any  other  provision  contained  herein, 
this  Lease  will  terminate  except  as  to  the  Retained  Tract  (defined  below)  surrounding  any  well  that  is  then  producing  in  paying  quantities  or 
deemed  to  be  producing  in  paying  quantities  by  virtue  of  payment  of  shut-in  royalties,  and  as  to  each  Retained  Tract,  the  Lease  will  then 
terminate  as  to  all  depths  100  feet  below  the  stratigraphic  equivalent  of  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation  on  the  Retained  Tract  The 
Lease  will  be  treated  as  a  separate  lease  with  respect  to  each  Retained  Tract  and  will  continue  so  long  as  production  in  paying  quantities  continues 
from  the  Retrained  Tract  or  the  Lease  is  otherwise  maintained.  If  production  from  a  Retained  Tract  ceases  from  any  cause,  this  Lease  will 
terminate  as  to  that  tract  unless  Lessee  commences  operations  for  drilling  or  reworking  on  the  tract  within  60  days  after  the  cessation  of 
production  or  this  Lease  is  maintained  by  other  provisions,  in  which  case  the  Lease  as  to  that  Retained  Tract  will  continue  in  force  as  long  as  the 
operations  are  prosecuted  with  no  cessation  of  more  than  60  consecutive  days,  and  if  they  result  in  production,  so  long  thereafter  as  there  is 
production  from  the  Retained  Tract 

(d)  As  used  in  this  Lease,  the  term  "horizontal  well"  means  a  well  that  meets  the  definition  of  a  "horizontal  drain  hole  well"  under 
Statewide  Rule  86  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas,  and  a  "vertical  well"  is  a  well  that  is  not  a  horizontal  well.  The  land  assigned  to  a  well 
for  the  purposes  of  this  section  is  referred  to  as  a  "Retained  Tract"  Each  tract  described  on  Exhibits  "B-l"  and  "B-2  shall  constitute  a  separate 
Retained  Tract;  however,  once  Lessee  concludes  its  continuous  drilling  operations  hereunder,  each  Retained  Tract  must  include  sufficient  wells 
drilled  to  hold  the  Retained  Tract  and  the  parties  agree  that  the  acreage  earned  by  drilling  a  well  may  not  exceed  the  minimum  size  required  to 
obtain  a  drilling  permit  under  the  well  density  rules  adopted  by  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  for  the  field,  or  if  there  are  no  field  rules  that 
apply,  the  Retained  Tract  shall  be  limited  to  the  smallest  size  required  to  obtain  a  drilling  permit  under  the  statewide  well  density  rules  of  the 


Page  1 


Pantego/Ailington  OGL 


Page  2  of  9 


Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  A  ReU.  Tract  for  a  vertical  well  producing  from  the  Barnett  SI  irmation  may  not  exceed  40  acres.  If 
field  rules  are  established  later  that  permit  obtaining  a  drilling  permit  with  less  acreage,  a  Retained  Tract  for  a  vertical  well  may  not  exceed  the 
minimum  size  permitted,  A  Retained  Tract  for  a  horizontal  well  may  include  the  minimum  acreage  specified  above  for  a  vertical  well  plus  the 
additional  acreage  listed  in  the  tables  in  Rule  86  and  must  comply  with  the  requirements  of  Rule  86  for  minimum  permitted  well  density,  and  if 
the  well  is  producing  from  the  Barnett  Shale  formation,  the  acreage  of  the  Retained  Tract  shall  be  assigned  as  if  well  density  for  vertical  wells  is 
40  acres  or  less.  Each  Retained  Tract  shall  be  designated  in  a  shape  that  maximizes  the  number  of  possible  Retained  Tracts  on  the  Leased 
Premises. 

(e)  Within  60  days  after  the  last  to  occur  of  the  expiration  of  the  Primary  Term  or  the  continuous  drilling  program,  Lessee  must  file  in  the 
county  records  and  furnish  to  Lessor  a  document  designating  each  Retained  Tract  by  metes  and  bounds  description  prepared  by  a  professional 
surveyor,  specifying  the  retained  depths  thereunder,  and  releasing  all  other  depths  and  acreage.  A  gas  well  that  becomes  an  oil  well  will  hold 
only  the  acreage  permitted  for  an  oil  well,  and  Lessee  must  file  a  redesignation  of  the  Retained  Tract  (containing  a  metes  and  bounds  description 
prepared  by  a  professional  surveyor  and  specifying  the  retained  depths  thereunder)  in  the  Real  Property  Records  of  the  county  where  the  Land  is 
located.  If  Lessee  fails  to  file  timely  a  document  required  by  this  paragraph  after  Lessor  has  provided  thirty  (30)  days  prior  written  notice,  then 
Lessor  may  do  so,  and  the  filing  will  bind  Lessee. 

(f)  Lessee  shall  drill  as  many  horizontal  wells  from  each  drill  site  as  is  reasonably  practicable  in  accordance  with  good  oilfield  practices 
and  taking  into  account  all  geological  and  geophysical  information  known  to  Lessee.  Each  drill  site  should  each  be  located  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
facilitate  the  drilling  of  as  many  wells  as  possible  from  such  drill  site  in  order  to  minimize  the  number  of  drillsites  on  lands  pooled  herewith. 

7.  Pooling.  Lessee  shall  have  the  right  to  pool  the  Land  to  form  two  separate  pooled  units  as  depicted  on  Exhibits  "B-l"  and 
"B-2"  respectively,  for  the  production  of  oil  and  gas  or  either  of  them.  The  acreage  in  a  pooled  unit  may  not  exceed  the  amount  that  would  be 
permitted  for  a  Retained  Tract  composed  of  acreage  lying  entirely  within  the  Land  or  lands  pooled  therewith.  A  pooled  unit  for  a  horizontal  well 
shall  be  configured  so  that  the  percentage  of  the  Land  that  is  included  in  the  unit  is  not  less  than  the  percentage  of  that  part  of  the  horizontal 
drainhole  that  is  located  under  the  Land  and  in  the  producing  formation.  The  unit  will  become  effective  when  Lessee  files  in  the  Real  Property 
Records  of  the  county  where  the  Land  is  located  a  document  describing  the  pooled  acreage  and  depths  for  the  pooled  unit  Lessee  shall  deliver  a 
copy  of  the  document  to  Lessor.  Lessee  may  at  its  election  exercise  its  pooling  option  before  or  after  commencing  operations.  Operations  for 
drilling  on  or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  any  part  of  a  pooled  unit  mat  includes  land  covered  by  this  Lease  shall  be  considered  as  operations  on 
or  production  of  oil  or  gas  from  the  portion  of  the  Land  included  in  the  pooled  unit  That  part  of  the  Land  included  in  a  pooled  unit  will  be 
considered  to  be  a  Retained  Tract  snd  ue  provisions  of  this  Lease  that  provide  for  termination  of  the  Lease  insofar  as  the  Lease  covers  depths 
below  the  base  of  the  deepest  producing  formation  and  other  provisions  relating  to  Retained  Tracts  shall  apply.  There  shall  be  allocated  to  the 
Land  included  in  the  unit  that  prorated  portion  of  the  oil  and  gas,  or  either  of  them,  produced  from  the  pooled  unit  that  the  number  of  surface 
acres  of  the  Land  included  in  the  unit  bears  to  the  total  number  of  surface  acres  included  in  the  unit  Subject  to  Paragraph  S  below,  royalties  shall 
be  computed  on  the  portion  of  production  allocated  to  the  Land  Any  unit  formed  may  not  be  amended  without  the  written  consent  of  Lessor.  No 
part  of  the  Land  may  be  included  in  a  pooled  unit  unless  all  of  the  Land  that  is  not  then  included  in  a  Retained  Tract  for  a  producing  well  is 
included  in  the  unit. 

In  the  event  any  portion  of  the  premises  within  the  area  defined  in  Exhibit  B  should  be  put  into  a  pooled  unit,  Lessee  agrees  to  include  all  of  the 
leased  premises  defined  in  Exhibit  B  in  said  pooL 

8.  Community  Lease.  The  mineral  ownership  of  the  various  Lessors  is  not  uniform  throughout  the  Leased  Premises.  By 
their  joint  execution  of  this  Lease,  the  Lessors  intend  for  the  acreage  covered  by  each  of  the  separate  and  respective  pooled  units,  as  depicted  on 
Exhibits  "B-l"  and  "B-2",  to  be  treated  as  a  "Community  Lease",  but  only  as  to  each  separate  pooled  unit  It  is  intended  that  the  royalty  payable 
under  this  Lease  be  shared  by  the  Lessors  as  follows: 

Each  separate  and  respective  pooled  unit  shall  be  administered  as  a  separate  community  lease  and  each  Lessor  shall  be  paid  a 
proportion  of  the  royalty  payable  under  this  Lease  equal  to  the  proportion  that  the  area  of  land  owned  by  such  Lessor  that  is  covered 
by  this  Lease  that  bears  to  the  total  acreage  included  in  the  respective  unit 

The  computation  of  Lessor's  acreage  shall  be  based  upon  the  Subdivision  Plat  The  agreed  acreage  for  the  purpose  of  computing  the 
Lessor's  fractional  share  of  bonus,  royalty  and  other  payments  shall  also  include  Lessor's  proportionate  share  of  any  street  alley, 
highway,  railroad,  canal,  river,  body  of  water  adjacent  to  or  contained  within  the  Subdivision,  or,  if  property  is  not  included  in  a 
Subdivision,  any  such  acreage  immediately  adjacent  to  Lessor's  property.  Lessee  shall  calculate  the  proportion  of  royalties  payable  to 
each  Lessor  under  this  Lease.  Upon  written  request  from  Lessor,  Lessee  will  provide  Lessor  with  documentation  of  the  title  and  other 
details  used  to  arrive  at  the  royalty  interest  of  Lessor. 

The  terms  and  provisions  of  this  Provision  8  will  survive  any  release  or  termination  of  the  Lease.  This  Provision  8  shall  be  binding 
upon  and  inure  to  the  benefit  of  the  parties  ("parties"  is  intended  to  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  all  Lessors  that  are  a  party  to  this 
Community  Lease")  hereto  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns,  and  all  terms,  provisions  and  reservations  contained  in  this 
Lease  shall  be  deemed  as  covenants  running  with  the  land. 

9.  Offset  Wells.  For  purposes  of  this  Lease,  an  "offsetting  well"  is  a  well  that  is  producing  oil  or  gas  from  adjacent  or  nearby 
land  and  is  draining  the  Leased  Premises.  If  an  offsetting  well  is  completed,  Lessee  must,  within  120  days  after  the  date  of  first  sales  from  the 
offsetting  well,  commence  operations  for  the  drilling  of  an  offset  well  on  the  Leased  Premises  and  must  diligently  pursue  those  operations  to  the 
horizon  in  which  the  offsetting  well  is  producing,  or  at  the  option  of  Lessee:  (i)  execute  and  deliver  to  Lessor  a  release  in  recordable  form  of  the 
acreage  nearest  to  the  offsetting  well;  or  (ii)  pay  Lessor  a  monthly  royalty  equal  to  the  royalty  that  would  be  payable  under  this  Lease  if  the 
production  from  the  offsetting  well  had  come  from  the  Leased  Premises.  In  the  event  acreage  is  released  pursuant  to  (i)  above,  the  release  will 
cover  a  tract  of  a  size  and  shape  that  will  permit  the  drilling  of  a  well  to  the  producing  formation  and  the  creation  of  a  proration  unit  surrounding 
the  well  in  compliance  with  the  field  rules  for  the  field  in  which  the  offsetting  well  is  located,  but  if  there  are  no  field  rules,  in  compliance  with 
the  statewide  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas.  A  well  producing  with  perforations  within  330  feet  of  the  Leased  Premises  will  be 
conclusively  presumed  to  be  draining  the  Land. 

10  Secondary  Recovery.    Lessee  will  not  implement  any  repressuring,  pressure  maintenance,  recycling,  or  secondary 

recovery  operations  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Lessor. 

11.  Surface  Operations.  NOTWITHSTANDING  ANYTHING  CONTAINED  HEREIN  TO  THE  CONTRARY,  IT  IS 
UNDERSTOOD  AND  AGREED  THAT  THIS  IS  A  NON-SURFACE  USE  LEASE  AND  LESSEE  HAS  NO  RIGHTS  TO  USE,  AND 
SHALL  NOT  USE,  ANY  PART  OF  THE  SURFACE  OF  THE  LEASED  PREMISES,  WITH  THE  EXCEPTION  OF  3-D  SEISMIC 
OPERATIONS  UTILIZING  THE  VXBROSEIS  METHOD;  HOWEVER,  LESSEE  SHALL  NOT  PLACE  A  VTftROSEIS  SOURCE 
POINT  WITHIN  200  FEET  OF  A  STRUCTURE  ON  THE  LEASED  PREMISES.  LESSEE  AND  LESSOR  AGREE  THAT  IN 
CONNECTION  WITH  THIS  LEASE  THERE  IS  NO  CONVEYANCE  OR  GRANT  OF  SUBSURFACE  EASEMENTS  OR 
SUBSURFACE  RIGHTS-OF-WAY. 

12.  Assignments.  The  rights  and  estate  of  any  party  hereto  may  be  assigned  from  time  to  time  in  whole  or  in  part  and  as  to 
any  mineral  or  horizon.  Lessee  shall  notify  Lessor  of  any  assignment  or  sublease  of  this  Lease,  and  Lessee  and  Lessee's  assignees  or  sublessee's 
of  an  interest  in  this  Lease  shall  be  joint  and  severally  liable  for  all  of  Lessee's  obligations  under  this  Lease.  Notwithstanding  any  other  actual  or 
constructive  knowledge  or  notice  thereof  of  or  to  Lessee,  its  successors  or  assigns,  no  change  or  division  in  the  ownership  of  said  Land  or  of  the 
royalties,  or  other  moneys,  or  the  right  to  receive  the  same,  howsoever  effected,  shall  be  binding  upon  the  then  record  owner  of  this  lease  until 
thirty  (30)  days  after  there  has  been  furnished  to  such  record  owner  at  his  or  its  principal  place  of  business  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  heirs,  successors, 
or  assigns,  notice  of  such  change  or  division,  supported  by  either  originals  or  duly  certified  copies  of  the  instruments  which  have  been  properly 
filed  for  record  and  which  evidence  such  change  or  division,  and  of  such  court  records  and  proceedings,  transcripts,  or  other  documents  as  shall 
be  necessary  in  the  opinion  of  such  record  owner  to  establish  the  validity  of  such  change  or  division. 

13.  Force  Majeure.  Should  Lessee  be  prevented  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure  from  complying  with  any  express  or  implied 
covenant  of  tins  Lease  (other  than  a  requirement  to  pay  money),  from  conducting  drilling  or  reworking  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises,  or 


Page  2 


Pantego/Arlington  OGL 


Page  3  of  9 


from  producing  oil  or  gas,  then  while  sd..  ...  .vented,  that  covenant  will  be  suspended;  Lessee  will  not      able  for  damages  for  failure  to  comply 

therewith;  this  Lease  will  be  extended  so  long  as  Lessee  is  prevented  from  conducting  (hilling  or  reworking  operations  on  or  from  producing  oil 
or  gas  from  the  Leased  Premises;  and  the  time  while  Lessee  is  so  prevented  will  not  be  counted  against  Lessee.  "Force  Majeure"  means  any  Act 
of  God,  any  federal  or  state  law,  or  any  rule  or  regulation  of  governmental  authority,  or  other  similar  cause  (other  than  financial  reasons),  and 
shall  also  include  the  inability  to  produce  gas  due  to  pipeline  delays  or  lade  of  market  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of  Lessee.  This  paragraph  is, 
however,  in  all  things  subject  to  the  limitations  of  time  during  which  this  Lease  may  be  continued  in  force  by  the  payment  of  shut-in  gas  royalties. 

14.  No  Warranties.  Lessor  makes  no  warranty  of  any  kind  with  respect  to,  and  has  no  obligation  to  defend,  title  to  the  Land. 
If  Lessor  owns  an  interest  in  the  Land  less  than  the  entire  fee  simple  estate,  then  the  royalties  payable  hereunder  will  be  reduced  proportionately. 

15.  Notices.  All  notices  will  be  deemed  given  and  reports  will  be  deemed  delivered  if  sent  by  certified  letter,  return  receipt 
requested,  properly  addressed  and  deposited  in  the  United  States  Postal  Service,  postage  prepaid,  to  Lessor  and  Lessee  at  the  addresses  shown 
above.  Either  party  may  designate  a  new  address  by  written  notice  to  the  other  party. 

16.  Attorney's  Fees.  In  the  event  that  Lessor  is  required  to  employ  legal  counsel  for  the  enforcement  of  any  provision  of  this 
Lease  and  prevails,  Lessor  will  be  entitled  to  recover  from  Lessee  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expenses  incurred  by  Lessor. 

17.  Insurance.  At  all  times  while  this  Lease  is  in  force.  Lessee  shall  acquire  and  maintain  insurance  covering  all  of  its 
activities  and  operations  hereunder,  including  any  work  performed  on  its  behalf  by  contractors,  subcontractors,  and  others,  naming  Lessor  as  an 
additional  insured.  The  policies  shall  include  coverage  for  comprehensive  general  liability,  for  bodily  injury  and  property  damage,  blowout  and 
loss  of  well  coverage,  and  coverage  for  any  damage  to  the  environment,  including  coverage  for  the  cost  of  clean  up  and  surface  remediation.  The 
coverage  shall  be  in  the  minimum  amount  of  $3,000,000.  Lessee  shall  furnish  a  certificate  from  the  issuing  insurance  company  or  companies 
evidencing  the  coverage. 

18.  Indemnity.  LESSEE,  ITS  SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS,  AGREES  TO  INDEMNIFY  AND  HOLD  HARMLESS 
LESSOR,  AND  LESSOR'S  REPRESENTATIVES,  EMPLOYEES,  TRUSTEES,  VOLUNTEERS,  AGENTS,  SUCCESSORS,  AND 
ASSIGNS  AGAINST  ALL  EXPENSES,  CLAIMS,  DEMANDS,  LIABILITIES,  AND  CAUSES  OF  ACTION  OF  ANY  NATURE  FOR 
INJURY  TO  OR  DEATH  OF  PERSONS  AND  LOSS  OR  DAMAGE  TO  PROPERTY,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION, 
ATTORNEY  FEES,  EXPERT  FEES,  AND  COURT  COSTS,  CAUSED  BY  LESSEE'S  ACTIVITIES  AND  OPERATIONS  ON  THE 
LEASED  PREMISES  OR  LESSEE'S  MARKETING  OF  PRODUCTION  FROM  THE  LEASED  PREMISES  OR  ANY  VIOLATION 
OF  ANY  ENVIRONMENTAL  REQUIREMENTS  BY  LESSEE.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH,  THE  TERM  "LESSEE" 
INCLUDES  LESSEE,  ITS  AGENTS,  EMPLOYEES,  SERVANTS,  CONTRACTORS,  AND  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  ACTING  UNDER 
ITS  DIRECTION  AND  CONTROL,  AND  ITS  INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTORS.  AS  USED  IN  THIS  PARAGRAPH.  LESSEE'S 
INDEMNITY  OBLIGATIONS  SURVIVE  THE  TERMINATION  OF  THIS  LEASE. 

19.  Compliance  with  Environmental  Laws  and  Regulations.  Lessee,  its  successors  and  assigns,  by  its  acceptance  of  this 
Lease,  hereby  agrees  to  comply  with  all  applicable  laws,  rules  and  regulations  and  hereby  assumes  full  responsibility  for,  and  agrees  to 
bdemnify,  defend  and  hold  harmless,  Lessor  from  and  against  any  loss,  liability,  claim,  fine,  expense  cost  (including  attorneys  fees  and  expenses) 
and  cause  of  action  caused  by  or  arising  out  of  the  violation  (or  defense  of  the  alleged  violation)  of  any  federal,  state  or  local  laws,  rules  or 
regulations  applicable  to  any  waste  material,  drilling  matter  fluid  or  any  hazardous  substances  released  or  caused  to  be  released  by  Lessee  or 
Lessee's  agents,  or  independent  contractors ,  or  any  other  operations  on  the  Leased  Premises  hereunder  into  tbe  atmosphere  or  into  or  upon  the 
land  or  any  water  course  or  body  of  water,  including  ground  water,  or  subsurface  water.  Additionally,  upon  receiving  any  notice  regarding  any 
environmental,  pollution  or  contamination  problem  or  violation  of  any  law,  rule  or  regulation,  Lessee  will  forward  a  copy  to  Lessor  by  certified 
mail  within  thirty  (30)  days.  This  provision  and  its  indemnities  shall  survive  me  termination  of  this  Lease,  and  shall  enure  to  the  successors,  heirs 
and  assigns  of  Lessor  and  Lessee. 

Lessee  agrees  to  pay  the  cost  of  water  quality  testing,  as  follows:  (1)  an  initial  baseline  water  quality  test  to  be  conducted  no  more  than  60  days 
before  Lessee  commences  actual  drilling  for  the  first  well  from  Lessee's  drillsite  located  on  the  Luminant  tract  at  2 1 1 8  S.  Bowen  Road,  Pantego, 
Texas,  and  (2)  re-testing  1  year  following  completion  of  the  first  well,  and  (3)  repeat  testing  every  three  years  thereafter,  as  long  as  this  lease 
remains  in  effect  Said  testing  shall  be  conducted  at  each  existing  municipal  water  well  within  the  Town  limits  of  Pantego,  Texas.  The  testing 
shall  be  done  by  a  qualified  professional  water  testing  firm  selected  jointly  by  the  Lessee  and  Lessor's  Representative  as  designated  in  Exhibit 
"C".  Testing  will  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  testing  for  gas,  minerals,  metals,  volatile  organic  compounds  (VOC's),  and  semi-volatile  organic 
compounds  (S  VOCs).  In  the  event  that  the  Town  of  Pantego  elects  to  cease  utilizing  such  municipal  water  wells  for  its  primary  water  source,  then 
during  such  time  Lessee  shall  be  relieved  of  its  recurring  testing  obligations  hereunder. 

20.  Miscellaneous  Provisions. 

(a)  In  the  event  this  Lease  terminates  for  any  reason  as  to  all  or  any  part  of  the  Land,  Lessee  shalL  within  60  days  thereafter,  deliver  to 
Lessor  a  recordable  release  covering  all  of  the  Land  or  that  portion  of  the  Land  as  to  which  this  Lease  terminated. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  Lease  negates  the  implied  covenants  imposed  upon  Lessee  under  applicable  law. 

(c)  Lessee  will  conduct  all  operations  hereunder  in  compliance  with  the  rules  of  the  Railroad  Commission  of  Texas  and  federal  and  state 
environmental  laws  and  regulations  and  municipal  ordinances.  Upon  written  request  of  Lessor,  Lessee  shall  furnish  to  a  representative 
designated  by  Lessor  copies  of  applications  to  drill,  daily  drilling  reports,  well  tests,  completion  reports,  plugging  records,  and  production  reports. 
Lessor's  Representative  as  designated  in  Exhibit  "C"  has  the  right,  at  Lessor's  risk,  of  access  to  the  derrick  floor  to  observe  all  operations  on  all 
wells  drilled  on  tbe  Leased  Premises.  Upon  written  request  Lessor's  Representative  will  have  the  right  to  inspect  and  view  samples  of  all  cores 
and  cuttings  and  witness  the  taking  of  all  logs  and  drill  stem  tests,  and,  upon  written  request,  Lessee  agrees  to  furnish  Lessor's  Representative 
with  copies  of  all  logs  and  surveys  taken  promptly  after  taking  them.  Lessee  will  divulge  to  Lessor's  Representative  correct  information  as 
requested  in  writing  by  Lessor  as  to  each  well,  the  production  therefrom,  and  such  non-proprietary  technical  information  as  Lessee  may  acquire; 
however,  Lessor  and  Lessor's  Representative  must  keep  all  such  information  confidential  and  may  not  divulge  same  to  any  third  parry.  Lessor's 
Representative  has  the  right  to  be  present  when  wells  or  tanks  are  gauged  and  production  metered  and  upon  written  request  has  tbe  right  to 
examine  all  run  tickets  and  to  have  full  information  as  to  production  and  runs  and  to  receive  copies  of  all  run  tickets. 

(d)  The  term  "production"  means  production  in  paying  quantities.  No  obligation  of  Lessee  to  pay  money  under  this  Lease  will  be  excused 
or  delayed  by  reason  of  Force  Majeure.  Lessee's  obligations  to  pay  money  under  this  Lease  are  to  be  performed  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 
Paragraph  headings  are  used  in  this  Lease  for  convenience  only  and  are  not  to  be  considered  in  the  interpretation  or  construction  of  this  Lease. 
The  execution  or  ratification  by  Lessor  of  any  division  order,  gas  contract,  or  any  other  document  will  not  alter  any  provision  of  this  Lease  unless 
the  intent  to  do  so  is  expressly  stated  in  the  document  Under  no  circumstances  may  Lessee,  As  agents,  employees,  or  contractors  bring  firearms 
or  dogs  or  other  animals  on  the  Leased  Premises  or  hunt  or  fish  on  the  Leased  Premises.  Upon  Lessor's  written  request,  Lessee  agrees  to  furnish 
to  Lessor  a  copy  of  each  title  opinion  or  report  obtained  by  Lessee  that  covers  all  or  any  part  of  the  Leased  Premises  together  with  a  copy  of  each 
title  curative  document  obtained  by  Lessee. 

(e)  Any  compressors  used  in  connection  with  this  Lease  or  the  Leased  Premises  herewith  shall  be  equipped  with  the  latest  technology  in 
noise  suppression  and  muffling  devices.  Every  five  years  if  requested  by  Lessor's  Representative  as  designated  in  Exhibit  "C",  Lessee  shall  be 
required  to  install  quieter  compressors  if  such  are  available  for  sale  and  distribution. 

(f)  Upon  Lessor's  written  request  and  reasonable  notice,  Lessor's  Representative  as  designated  in  Exhibit  "C"  shall  have  the  right  to 
inspect,  during  normal  business  hours,  all  records  of  Lessee  relating  to  this  Lease,  operations  conducted  on  the  Leased  Premises,  the  sale  and 
marketing  of  production  from  the  Leased  Premises,  and  the  payment  of  royalties,  including  the  right  to  audit  Lessee's  books  insofar  as  they  relate 
to  the  foregoing.  All  such  information  is  confidential  and  shall  not  be  further  disclosed  by  Lessor  or  Lessor's  Representative  without  Lessee's 
prior  written  consent 


Page  3  Pantego/ Arlington  OGL 


Page  4  of  9 


(g)  Lessor  may  not  own  all  of  -iinerals  underlying  the  Land.  Lessee  agrees  that  it  will  m.  .  .ill,  conduct  operations  or  participate  in 
drilling  or  operations  on  the  Land  or  Leased  Itemises  which  are  not  in  compliance  with  the  terms  and  requirements  of  this  Lease  by  claiming 
authority  under  the  lease  or  leases  covering  the  outstanding  interest 

(h)  Jurisdiction  and  venue  for  any  legal  dispute  between  Lessor  and  Lessee  related  in  any  way  to  this  lease  shall  be  in  the  court(s)  of 
competent  jurisdiction  located  in  Tarrant  County,  Texas. 

(i)  Lessee,  for  itself  and  its  successors  and  assigns,  hereby  waives  any  right  of  eminent  domain  possessed  by  Lessee  or  any  Affiliate  of 
Lessee  to  acquire  any  right  of  way  or  easement  for  the  transportation  of  gas,  oil  or  any  other  substance. 

(j)  In  the  event  Lessee  pays  a  bonus  or  royalty  amount  greater  than  the  amount  paid  to  Lessor,  for  an  oil  and/or  gas  lease,  and/or  pooling 

action,  within  the  Unit  boundaries  of  Exhibits  "B-l"  or  "B-2",  during  the  primary  term  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  agrees  to  pay  Lessor  the  difference 
between  the  bonus  amount  already  paid  per  acre,  and  the  amount  per  acre  of  the  greater  bonus  paid  and/or  increase  the  royalty  provided  for  in 
Provision  4  to  the  greater  amount 

(k)  Appointment  of  Representative.  The  parties  agree  that  Lessor  may  designate  a  representatives)  to  administer  specific  provisions  and 

rights  of  this  Lease  as  specified  in  Exhibit  C,  or  as  otherwise  stated  in  writing  by  Lessor.. 

(1)  Environmental  Safeguards.  Lessee  shall  employ  such  measures  as  will  reduce  the  impact  of  its  operations  upon  improvements, 

vegetation  and  habitat  on  the  Leased  Premises.  Lessee  shall  use  reasonable  care  and  safeguards  in  conducting  its  operations  to  prevent 
contamination  or  pollution  from  any  waste,  pollutant,  or  contaminant  to  any  environmental  medium,  including  soil,  surface  waters,  groundwater, 
sediments,  surface  or  subsurface  strata,  ambient  air,  or  any  other  environmental  medium  in,  on,  or  under  the  Leased  Premises.  Lessee  shall 
remediate  any  condition  which  is  hazardous  to  humans  or  wildlife  resulting  from  Lessee's  operations. 

(m)  Visual  Appearance.  Lessee  shall  not  permit  the  disposal  of  trash,  storage  of  used  equipment  or  other  such  materials  on  the  well  site 
and  shall  maintain  the  well  she  in  a  neat  and  orderly  fashion.  Lessee  shall  construct  or  improve  necessary  lease  roads  as  all  weather  roads  and 
shall  maintain  such  roads  in  a  good  state  of  condition  and  repair  in  order  to  prevent  excess  dust  and  erosion  and  maintain  the  continuity  of  the 
surrounding  environment.  For  safety  and  appearance,  Lessee  shall  install  appropriate  fences  around  each  well  and  related  facilities  in  a  visually 
appealing  manner  in  an  effort  to  maintain  the  continuity  of  the  surrounding  area,  and  shall  maintain  the  fences  in  a  good  state  of  repair.  Upon 
conclusion  of  Lessee's  drilling  and  completion  operations,  Lessee  shall  restore  that  portion  of  the  well  arte  not  being  utilized  by  Lessee  for 
producing  operations  as  nearly  as  is  reasonably  practicable  to  its  original  state.  In  addition,  Lessee  shall  maintain  the  well  site  in  a  manner 
whereby  it  shall  be  free  of  noxious  vegetation  and  debris  resulting  from  Lessee's  operations.  Upon  lease  expiration,  Lessee  shall  remove  all  of 
Lessee's  equipment  and  restore  the  surface  of  the  ground  as  nearly  as  is  reasonably  practicable  to  its  original  state. 

(n)  Groundwater  Protection.  Any  oil  or  gas  wells  drilled  by  Lessee  shall  be  drilled  in  compliance  with  the  surface  casing  requirements 

imposed  by  the  State  of  Texas  for  groundwater  protection  and  Lessee  shall  install  such  surface  casing  in  the  required  manner  in  order  to  insure 
the  protection  of  all  fresh  water  bearing  formations  in  and  under  the  Leased  Premises. 

(o)  Noise  Abatement  and  Safety.   Lessee  shall  utilize  modem  equipment  with  appropriate  safeguards  in  hs  drilling,  completion  and 

producing  operations.  Whenever  possible,  Lessee  shall  install  sound  barriers  and  utilize  hospital  grade  mufflers  on  compressors  to  reduce  noise 
levels  and  emissions  while  conducting  its  operations  within  the  Town  of  Pantego. 

(p)  Seismic  Operations.  Lessee  shall  pay  for  all  damages  incurred  to  the  Land  which  result  from  its  seismic  operations.  Other  than 

seismic  operations  as  provided  herein,  by  execution  and  delivery  of  this  Lease,  Lessee  does  not  otherwise  obtain  the  right  to  conduct  exploration, 
excavation  or  drilling  operations  from  or  upon  the  surface  of  any  portion  of  the  Land. 

(q)  Local  Ordinances,  hi  conducting  its  operations  hereunder.  Lessee  shall  comply  with  all  present  and  future  ordinances,  rules  or 

regulations  imposed  by  Town  of  Pantego  or  other  governmental  agency. 

(r)  Counterpart  Language.  This  Lease  may  be  executed  m  counterparts. 

Executed  on  the  date  first  written  above. 


Lessor: 


Steven  M  Voss 


Lessor: 


Barbara  E  Voss 


Lessee: 

Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Ino. 


Printed  Name:  *J*f  *l 


Title:      C  f  A~tsj 


f- 


,.„..  DANIEL  TAYIOR 

}  s  '«r'i  1  NoB,v  Pub,,c'  Sta'e  of  Texas 


My  Commission  Expires 
April  01,2012 


2> 


Page  4 


f  Pantego/Ariingtoii  OGL 


IT 


Page  5  of  9 


EXHIBIT  "A" 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  between  The  Voss  Family  Trust,  by  and  through  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E 

Voss,  trustees,  as  "Lessor",  and  Cairizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  as  "Lessee". 


0.253  gross  acre/s,  more  or  less,  described  as  Lot  15A,  Block  2,  Shady  Valley  Acres  Addition  to  the  Town  of  Pantego,  Tarrant 
County,  Texas  more  particularly  described  in  that  certain  Deed  dated  May  30, 2006,  by  and  between  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E 
Voss,  husband  and  wife,  as  grantor,  and  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E  Voss,  trustees  of  The  Voss  Family  Trust,  as  grantee,  and 
recorded  in  Instrument  #  D206182083,  of  the  Deed  Records  of  Tarrant  County,  Texas,  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  "Lease 
Premises". 


Page  5 


Pantego/Ariington  OGL 


Page  6  of  9 


EXHIBIT  "B-l" 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  between  The  Voss  Family  Trust,  by  and  through  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E 

Voss,  trustees,  as  "Lessor",  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  as  "Lessee". 


Boundaries  of  "Pantego  Unit" 


North:  Centerline  of  West  Park  Row  Drive 

South:  Centerline  of  Pioneer  Parkway 

East:  Centerline  of  South  Bowen  Road 

West:  Centerline  of  Park  Springs  Road 

Also  containing  any  other  lands  not  described  above  within  the  Town  Limits  of  Pantego  lying  west  of  the  centerline  of  South  Bowen  Road. 


Page  6 


Pantego/ Arlington  OGL 


Page  7  of  9 

EXHIBIT  "B-2' 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  CHI  and  Gas  Lease  between  The  Voss  Family  Trust,  by  and  through  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E 

Voss,  trustees,  as  "Lessor",  and  Carrizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  as  "Lessee". 


Boundaries  of  "Arlington-Lakewood  Unit" 


North:  Centerline  of  West  Park  Row  Drive 

South:  Centerline  of  West  Pioneer  Parkway 

East:  Centerline  of  South  Fielder  Road 

West:  Centerline  of  South  Bowen  Road 

Also  containing  any  other  lands  not  described  above  within  the  Town  Limits  of  Pantego  lying  east  of  the  centerline  of  South  Bowen  Road. 


Page  7 


Pantego/Arlington  OGL 


Page  8  of  9 


EXHIBIT  "C" 


Attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  certain  Oil  and  Gas  Lease  between  The  Voss  Family  Trust,  by  and  through  Steven  M  Voss  and  Barbara  E 

Voss,  trustees,  as  "Lessor",  and  Canizo  Oil  &  Gas,  Inc.,  as  "Lessee". 


Lessor  hereby  authorizes  the  designation  of  Representatives  from  the  Panlego- Arlington  Area  Citizens  Lease  Committee  to  administer  limited 
Lessor's  rights  under  the  lease,  as  follows: 

■  Verification  of  Lessor's  acreage  and  royalty  percentage. 

■  Inspection  and  examination  of  books  and  accounts,  receipts,  well  records,  and  all  contracts  and  other  records  as  specified  in 
Sections  4  and  20(f). 

"      Conduct  and  evaluation  of  water  tests  within  the  Unit  boundaries  of  Exhibit  B-l  as  specified  in  Section  19. 

■  Copies  of  reports  as  specified  in  Section  20(c). 

■  Compressor  requests  as  specified  in  Section  20(e). 


PageS 


Pantego/Arlington  OGL 


CALIFORNIA  ALL-PURi  JSE 
CERTIFICATE  OF  ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

State  of  California 

County  of     PIclc-c  ^-  


0n    before  me,  LlS^  Ldj^xtl/A.    Nobt^-i    Qu-blti   , 

(Here  insert  nalne  and  title  of  the  officer) 

personally  appeared       S>\C\/Cs\    ^-   ^^C^rb^u    \Jp  sS  

who  proved  to  me  on  the  basis  of  satisfactory  evidence  to  be  the  person(s)  whose  name(s)  #/are  subscribed  to 
the  within  instrument  and  acknowledged  to  me  that  Wshe/they  executed  the  same  in  his/her/their  authorized 
capacity(ies),  and  that  by  hi&Wtheir  signature(s)  on  the  instrument  the  person(s),  or  the  entity  upon  behalf  of 
winch  the  person(s)  acted,  executed  the  instrument. 

I  certify  under  PENALTY  OF  PERJURY  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of  California  that  the  foregoing  paragraph 
is  true  and  correct. 


WITNESS  my  hand  and  official  seal 

Signature  of  Notary  Public 

ADDITIONAL  OPTIONAL  INFORMATION 

INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  COMPLETING  THIS  FORM 

Any  acknowledgment  completed  in  California  must  contain  verbiage  exactly  as 
appears  above  in  the  notary  section  or  a  separate  acknowledgment  form  must  be 
properly  completed  and  attached  to  that  document.  The  only  exception  is  if  a 
document  is  to  be  recorded  outside  of  California.  In  such  instances,  any  alternative 
acknowledgment  verbiage  as  may  be  printed  on  such  a  document  so  long  as  the 
verbiage  does  not  require  the  notary  to  do  something  that  is  illegal  for  a  notary  in 
California  (i.e.  certifying  the  authorized  capacity  of  the  signer).  Please  check  the 
document  care  fully  for  proper  notarial  wording  and  attach  this  form  if  required. 

•  Stale  and  County  information  must  be  the  State  and  County  where  the  document 
signer(s)  personally  appeared  before  the  notary  public  for  acknowledgment. 

•  Date  of  notarization  must  be  the  date  that  the  signers)  personally  appeared  which 
must  also  be  the  same  date  the  acknowledgment  is  completed. 

•  The  notary  public  must  print  his  or  her  name  as  it  appears  within  his  or  her 
commission  followed  by  a  comma  and  then  your  title  (notary  public). 

•  Print  the  name(s)  of  document  signerfs)  who  personally  appear  at  the  time  of 
notarization. 

•  indicate  the  correct  singular  or  plural  forms  by  crossing  off  incorrect  forms  (i.e. 
he/she/thejv  is  /a+e  )  or  circling  the  correct  forms.  Failure  to  correctly  indicate  this 
information  may  lead  to  rejection  of  document  recording. 

•  The  notary  seal  impression  must  be  clear  and  photographically  reproducible. 
Impression  must  not  cover  text  or  lines.  If  seal  impression  smudges,  re-seal  if  a 
sufficient  area  permits,  otherwise  complete  a  different  acknowledgment  form. 

•  Signature  of  the  notary  public  must  match  the  signature  on  file  with  the  office  of 
the  county  clerk. 

*>     Additional  information  is  not  required  but  could  help  to  ensure  this 

acknowledgment  is  not  misused  or  attached  to  a  different  document, 
•>     Indicate  title  or  type  of  attached  document,  number  of  pages  and  date. 
*>     Indicate  the  capacity  claimed  by  the  signer.  If  the  claimed  capacity  is  a 
corporate  officer,  indicate  the  title  (i.e.  CEO,  CFO,  Secretary). 

•  Securely  attach  this  document  to  the  signed  document 


(Notary  Seal) 


Mi  rffii       mttii  affh  1T1  iiflri  irir 


USA  LAMANHA 
Commission  #  1502947 
Notary  Public  -  California 
Placer  County 
My  Comm.  Expires  Jul  23, 2006j 


DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  ATTACHED  DOCUMENT 

(Title  or  description  of  attached  document) 
(Title  or  description  of  attached  document  continued) 

Number  of  Pages   Document  Date  

(Additional  information) 


CAPACITY  CLAIMED  BY  THE  SIGNER 

□  Individual  (s) 

□  Corporate  Officer 

fjitiij 

□  Partner(s) 

□  Attorney-in-Fact 

□  Trustee(s) 

□  Other 


2008  Version  CAPA  vI2.10.07  800-873-9865  www.NotaryClasses.com 


