Is this like this meeting? Let's get that over.
Whenever you're ready Frank.
Thank you. Today's October 29th. Thank you all for coming. Today is
posted as a Board of Selectman's emergency meeting because of
Hurricane Sandra that's coming up the coast and just about to fall on us.
This is probably one meeting the Board of Selectman is going to say less. Listen to
safety officers, the emergency
preparedness team and then we can go to discussion afterwards. I'll turn it over to
Kevin. Thanks Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry for starting preemptively there. I didn't know.
I forgot the cameras. So I'm just going to give the Board
a general quick overview and then turn it over to Roger and the department heads
to go through and detail what we've done. First of all
just mention to the Board, we have learned
a great deal about emergency operations
because of the two events last year and an enormous
amount of work has taken place over the last year based
on the lessons that we learned, based on those voluminous after action
reports that we collectively wrote and you've all seen.
I had a briefing early this morning with the department
heads and Roger and we shared, everybody shared
a lot of things that they've been doing and I was frankly
surprised and very pleasantly so to hear a lot of
work that I didn't know was going on and I think you'll be pleased to hear
a lot of things that perhaps you're not aware of as well. And then all
the normal things have been happening to get ready for the storm. So
generally speaking we're looking at a
wind event with some rain and Roger will get into that in a little more detail.
Hope we're right on the cusp. I don't know what it is.
We keep being right on the edge of these storms. You know we could get clobbered
we may escape any heavy damage. So we're preparing
for the worst. All the preparations have been
made in terms of buildings. I talked to the school superintendent
last night. She asked for what our thoughts were
in terms of closing school. I reflected
I thought her inclination was to do that. I reflected that
I thought that was a prudent step because having kids out in this. It's not so much
this morning getting to work. It's more getting
home this afternoon because the storm is supposed to start really getting
going around noon time, mid afternoon and then peak tonight.
So we're a lot more concerned about getting people home than we were necessarily getting them in here.
I know a lot of towns closed town halls right from the get go
this morning. Debbie made the decision to close school because
it's a lot tougher to do midday closure, early close
than it is to just make the decision so parents can make arrangements.
I made the decision to keep town facilities open this morning. Primarily get the
payroll done. We'll be closing at noon sending everybody home. All non-essential
people home. The library has concurred with that. They're going to do the same thing.
Basically town government per se will be shut down at noon.
The emergency department heads will be around.
It's kind of, you know, I told people if you live nearby go home.
If you don't hang around here. So everybody will be
available. We're not going to plan another meeting after this one.
Next meeting will be event based. If things start
to deteriorate then we'll call the staff in. We'll meet at the
McGinty Center. We'll fire up the Emergency Operations Center. Roger will make that call in
consultation with me and I'll immediately call you to let you know that we are in operation.
So that's kind of the overview. And
Roger will get into a few more specifics and then when Roger is done we're going to go around and rob
into the department heads. And of course you all know the esteemed and inimitable Tom
Coughlin from National Grid. Tom is with us yet again and we're very pleased about
that because he is without a doubt our favorite guy from National Grid. So welcome
back Tom. And it's his anniversary by the way. He likes to do this
every year on his anniversary. Absolutely.
As Kevin said we've been monitoring this storm for over the last five
days. So it's given us plenty of time to make sure that all of our
resources, our equipment is ready and that we can handle anything that
might be thrown at us as a community. It's a
slow moving storm. It has not hit land yet.
It's been moving around 10 to 15 miles an hour.
Originally on Saturday at the conference call that we had
the storm was going to be impacting us about 8 in the morning. And then yesterday
they had changed it that it was going to be around 10 o'clock
in the morning we'd start seeing some impacts. It's a 12 hour storm.
Is what we're looking at. So from 10 o'clock to 10 o'clock is where we're going
to see majority of the impacts from this storm.
It's going to probably peak as Kevin said somewhere around
12 to 3 o'clock. That's going to be where the peak is.
Our area hasn't really changed all that much in the last three days in regards
to what they've been giving us for information. We're looking at 30 to 30 mile
an hour winds with spikes
around 50 to 55 mile an hour winds. Again as
Kevin said that that's kind of just at that point is
what kind of impacts we're going to see from that. I do
agree with Tom Coffin at our last meeting that they've done a lot of great pruning over the
summer. So that should help limit the amount of outages that we
see. But that wind is just right at that point where it's kind of
unpredictable. The positive thing is on the rain.
Roger Hill and his staff have been preparing
for flooding. We're looking at 1 to 3 inches of rain throughout a 72 hour period.
So that should be manageable. The biggest areas that we
have to look at is storm drains being plugged by leaves.
And Roger Hill and his staff have been working diligently on that to make sure that
that's going to be not an issue for us.
There was at one point at the beginning of this storm people were hearing that there might
be snow or it might be a mixture. The temperatures that we're looking at
for this storm have been constant. They're looking at anywhere from 56 to 60
degrees. So I think that the cold weather component that we're
being told that the earlier parts of the storm are pretty much
not going to be an issue for us. And that weather temperature is constant
pretty much for the week. That leads us
into a few other things. You know, what is the biggest concern
for the town of Foxborough? And it's got to be basically power outages.
That's why I'm ecstatic to have Tom Coffin here as a liaison.
As we saw for the last two storms a year ago, by
having Tom here, we had direct information, direct
conversations with National Grid. I've already
directed the police chief and the public works director if
they need to get a hold of Tom. Deputy Chief Steve Bagley
is going to be with him at all times. So we have that
direct ability to get him where we need him if we have any concerns in the
community. So again, as Kevin said, Tom,
welcome again. In regards
to if we have a power outage scenario like last year, a lot of
questions have been posed to you folks as the Board of Selectmen along with the
department heads and the town manager about sheltering.
It's very, very clear that it all depends on what is
the critical need of the community. If it ends up being
our senior housing again, and it's our fragile seniors that
we're looking at, we would absolutely open up a local shelter
here in the community. If it's a part of our community
that is middle-aged or younger homeowners,
we'll probably take part in the regional sheltering
that the state has been encouraging us to do for years. At this point,
no shelter in our area has been established or open.
There is six shelters that have been opened by the Commonwealth. They're all in the coastal
communities. Why is that? This is really a coastal
impact. That's the biggest part of our state that's going to be
impacted by this is the coastline. And that
message has been re-informed every time we do a conference
call with MEMA. It's pretty obvious that that's going to be the hardest
area hit in the state.
And again, I want to make it clear we're not going to overreact
but we're not going to underreact in regards to shelters. And if a decision is
made that we're going to open up a shelter, we
will work as a team like we did last year and we will make sure we get
the word out to all of the community. Now,
last year we did a half-decent job, I'll
call it, getting the word out. For one whole year, we've
really been working strongly with Chief O'Leary, with Deb Spinelli,
along with Vicki Lowe and the seniors,
and with Pauline Clifford and Mike John. All of us with
the folks that we were concerned about, it's getting them registered in the
reverse 911 system has been a big push for the year, along with
working hand-in-hand with the patch, with Fox Bill
Cable, with Michael, and all of our medias on
how can we do a better job getting the messages out to the community.
We have four different ways that we're doing that. The first one is reverse 911.
And that is a great tool for us to be using.
We've had more and more people registering for that. The next one would
be our medias, using Fox Bill Cable, along with
everybody seems to have smartphones now, so we're using all of the technologies of
the Fox Bill patch, Facebook and Twitter, to get the messages
out that way. We also are working with the region on an
AM radio station, that being 1320. Again, I'll say
that AM 1320 is going to be also working with us
to get the message out through the radio system. And then we'll still continue
to use the common and the billboards that we have at the common,
along with hard copy handouts that will be at the public safety building
in the senior center to get the word out.
I feel we've had five days to really get ourselves
ready. But I also want to make sure that people understand,
even though the governor has declared a state of emergency,
does not mean that we're just going to go and start putting all of this stuff in play
because the federal government or the state is going to pay for it.
Just because we declare it doesn't mean we're going to get the funding. We still
have to meet the thresholds of damage assessment for the county
before we as a community can actually look for reimbursement.
So what I've told the police department, the fire department,
highway, any department that might potentially have overtime or have
any expenses towards this is to code it as the hurricane Sandy
so that we can track that money better and working with Randy
Scalans in the finance department to track all of our costs.
But at this point, I think we are really ready.
We have had plenty of time to get ready and I think we've been
communicating our message. I want to say one more thing.
It was just a freak accident that the emergency preparedness
handbook came out the way it did, that the three presentations that
Vicki Lowe and Pauline Clifford and myself did at the high school
and at the senior center and at the McGinty room, we didn't know the storm was
coming. But I'm happy we did that. I want to commend Foxboro Cable for
putting out that presentation. We did the presentation and they've been broadcasting
it all weekend. And we've been allowed to get that message out to our residents.
And I want to give you guys kudos on that because it was your hard
work that made that happen.
Thank you, Chief. Kevin, anything else you want to add? No, I think Chief's done a good
job. But what I'd like to do, Mr. Chairman, is have the different department heads give you any
detailed information that they'd like to share at this point and then entertain any board
questions or concerns that you've got. Chief?
Starting last Thursday, we started getting briefings from
all of them. Sorry.
Frank, is that side microphone on?
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Starting last
Thursday, we started distributing MEMA updates to both the dispatch
staff and patrol staff about the pending storm coming in.
Yesterday, based on the latest update,
we actually put an additional patrol officer
out on the road for the next 24 hours, starting
today at 8 o'clock in the morning. And all officers
in specialty positions were directed to report the uniform so
that we had a contingency that the storm
could actually get worse during the day. So we're
in position to respond to calls for service, especially wires down
or any type of traffic or public hazard.
And we're going to just go by what we see
during the day today, unless there's some significant change
I would imagine by tomorrow morning. We'll go back
to our normal staffing. Okay, thank you.
Roger?
We too started last week. We fueled up all our vehicles.
We started up all our oxygen pump engines and all the
generators that we have. On Friday, we cleaned
off as many patients as we could get to, but I believe they're clogged again this
morning because it's been raining and blowing wind all weekend. So I urge
the residents of Fox Grove, if they get a chance, to go out and knock the leaves off
the catch basin so the water can go down.
Today we have divided the town up into four quadrants. Each of the quadrants
has a piece of heavy equipment and a crew. Our plan
is to just get anything that does come down off the roads.
If it's got wires on it, of course we have to work with National Grid.
We won't do any chipping until tomorrow.
We'll keep the crews on as long as necessary today
to make sure that the roads stay open. This doesn't seem to be
a big event, but it probably, it very well could
be. We just have to wait and kind of see how things go with it.
Let's have Tom up next. Thanks, Roger. Tom from
National Grid.
Thank you. I don't know whether the board has any specific questions, but let me just
tell you, well, it's nice to be back here in Foxboro, not under these
conditions, of course. We hope that the work
that we've done over the last year has really paid off. One issue
that comes up is that Union Loop that we talked about a lot last year,
we've actually done a lot of work over the course of the last year.
This weekend we did a lot of patrols both from the air and on foot
to make sure that there are no soft spots that it's
going to run as we think. I think
what we expect, because of the high winds, hopefully
all the main lines are clear, but expect that we're going to see some branches
fall on some of the house services, trees that are on private property,
as well as maybe some of those
large trees that might get topped in the wind and fall on one of our phases.
We have the report of one outage already, one of the pumping stations, so
Deputy Chief and I are going to go out there and survey it to see what's needed out there, but
likely it's just a fuse. So we're going to see, hopefully, just
little things like down services, fuses that open up, which are
easy to repair. At least we keep our fingers crossed. We've done a lot
of work trying to figure out how to do storm
restoration better, so I think it's no secret that we're facing
a rather large fine. If you're a regulator, you want to make
sure that when you're assessing a fine that also the utility
is doing a root cause analysis to find out what went wrong.
So I've seen myself and my own job a big overhaul in how
we communicate, and hopefully won't have to use
that, but there's a lot of support behind me
to make sure that we do the job better this time. Tom also
is paired up with Deputy Chief, Fire Deputy Chief Bagley.
They're going to be kind of a team that Roger has arranged.
We've got emergency contact data overlapping,
emergency contact capability overlapping redundant, so that
we'll be in touch throughout the storm. Having Tom aboard
is great. He's an outstanding individual
and terrific to work with. I'm sure you're all aware of that, but we just can't say enough about Tom.
He's fantastic. We love having him around, and Deputy Chief Bagley
will make sure he gets all the support that he needs to stay on top of things.
Thank you, Kevin. Does the board have
any questions that they'd like to ask me while I'm up here? I had one quick one,
and I thank you for coming early, and we'll go around the board quick.
I've had a lot of discussions with Marcy Reed since last year
and all the preparedness, and it certainly shows, and I thank you for that.
Just a quick common sense for the listeners that are
watching this. If something falls on your wire going to your house,
who do they call? Do they call National Grid on an 800 number? Do they call Town Hall?
Do they call the fire department or the police? Just kind of quick, common
sense direction. There is a 1-800 number that they should call
National Grid, but also I wouldn't hesitate to also place another
call to fire police dispatch as well.
I'll be sitting up there, so they'll be feeding that information to me as well.
Hopefully that won't be a burden on public safety, but definitely
let us know, but also let public safety
know as well. Does that make sense? There is two things,
and I'm happy you brought that up, Jim. I really need to stress the
point that if any resident sees a wire down, always treat it as live,
stay away from it, make the call. I'd rather have us coming out
and validating that you're safe and that your home is safe.
The other thing is that we have a lot of folks now in the last year that have gotten
generators, and we've been stressing through this community that make sure that
if you're going to be connecting a generator to your home, that it's been installed
appropriately so that it's not backfeeding the system
and causing any danger to the folks that are working for National
Grid or to anybody else. Last year we saw a lot of
backfeeding into the system. We saw also a lot of carbon monoxide
emergencies because people had them installed the wrong way. So that's
one big thing that we need to encourage all of our residents to do, is
stay away from down wires and make sure that if you're using a generator that you've had it
installed appropriately. And while Tom's here, it is a good opportunity.
Is there any more questions from the board directly at a National Grid?
Could we have the phone number? That's why I got this card out
because I was going to offer that. And I don't have my glasses on, but
for the listeners and people in the room, the emergency number is 1-800-465-1212.
Thank you. And could we have the Policify
dispatch number, which is the best number to use?
I think 1238, dear Deb. 1238. 1238. So it's
508-543-1238
would be the best number. Thank you. And Tom, last year in the heat of the
moment, we were giving out your home number and your cell number. That's probably not appropriate right now.
Mr. Chairman, we changed our number at home.
I had a feeling. Thank you. Any more from the board?
However, anniversary gifts would be appreciated.
I think Pauline Health,
it's sort of a Pauline, Vicki, Mike merged
vulnerable population sort of thing. So you guys just
jump in as you want. But Pauline, why don't you lead off?
Thank you.
Thank you. We're all set. We have been getting
information from the state starting last
Tuesday. And as we've gotten the fact sheets and everything, we've been updating
our website. And actually, the home page
of Fox Bros webpage, you click on the very front and it says, Hurricane
Ready. You just click on that and it brings you to our home page with all the fact sheets,
anything that you need to know about flooding, hurricane recovery, hurricane
readiness. Also on there, we're going to have information about the generator
too. Our handbook is on there too, so people are
downloading that and calling us and thanking us. They're sending us emails on that.
So it's been a wealth of information for people. But
it's a lot of information, not only for the residents, but also for our food
establishments. There's information on there too.
That's about it for me. Vicki, do you want to?
Thanks, Pauline.
By the way, Vicki was actually on vacation and terminated it and came home early for us.
So thanks, Vicki. Because today's my anniversary too. Oh, no.
But I'm not married to Tom.
I just wanted to say that last year after everything and we did our whole
exercise with lessons learned, we've been
working on those lessons all year long. So in the spring, I was
able to get a grant from the state to hire someone who was called an
emergency management outreach worker. She's worked throughout
the whole spring and through the fall to reach
out to try to find the people with critical needs
in the community that we could. Chief Hatfield
and my outreach worker and Lieutenant
Haskell have kind of dovetailed our list. So we know
of the people that have chosen to be on this list that have the most critical
needs, which would be people that maybe have an
electric-powered wheelchair or have some sort of life-sustaining
equipment that they need power for, or people who are bedbound
and would need help in an evacuation. In addition to that,
we've also at the Senior Center had programs where we've
showed people how to do reverse 911. We've offered to help
them do that in our computer lab. And we've also encouraged people to
get their emergency contact so that if you have
a daughter in Plymouth, she'll get the 911 call that there's a town-wide emergency
in Foxboro that their parent might be experiencing.
So we've done a lot to try to make the distinction between people with critical needs
and people who just need the information through the reverse 911.
We also were able to get an emergency evacuation
plan from Housing. Pat Anas has been able to give us
a whole procedure that we've shared with all of the critical
people. And we've also, through the grant,
and the cooperation of all the department heads involved,
Roger and Pauline and I and the outreach worker, we've done
these emergency management meetings, what you can do to help yourself
to shelter in place, and with the help of Foxboro Cable Access, as Chief said,
it was on all weekend long. So we've done these programs in
preparation for that, and Pauline got that wonderful book put together.
So I think we've done a lot to prepare, and I think we've done basically
all we can at this point to see what happens with the emergency. But the biggest
message that I think we want to get to people is neighbors checking on neighbors.
You know, if you are concerned about an elderly person or someone who's disabled
but lives near you, to check on them and just call us if they need help.
Thank you, Vicki. John? Oh, there you are.
Michael.
Three quick things.
I want to follow up on what Vicki said, agree neighbors checking on
neighbors. If someone has left town, gone to a relative,
evacuated, gone to a motel or whatever, leave a sign on the door.
Tell a neighbor. I would say do both of those things. It really
helps the emergency services personnel to know that they don't have to keep
banging on the door, calling a number, or whatever. Let somebody know.
I'm just taking my notebook here. Sorry. You hear a lot
about the reverse 911, and one thing that might
come to mind for people is that's great until the phones go down. What people need to know
is when they register for that, they can register their cell phone.
So you still have cell phone use. You're still going to get those reverse 911 calls from the
town. And the last thing, something I heard in the meeting
earlier this morning is that trash pickup is still happening today
and tomorrow will, you know, is happening until
we're here otherwise. Thank you, Michael.
And I think, Sue, on animal control issues is up next?
Next.
We do need to shelter. We have supplies
available to co-locate pets. I did get a grant
and acquired those supplies in there.
Roger is going to be talking to the superintendent
Deb Spinelli after this meeting. Lizzie's already had a chance, but
we didn't have a lot of time in between about where the location of the shelter is.
As you know, the school did not want to have it at Burroughs
again, where necessary. We had it there because the high school
wasn't complete yet. It's now complete and that apparently has been the traditional
place and it's now got a much beefed up capability over what it
used to have with the reconstruction program. So
if necessary, it'll probably be there, but we're not really in that mode, not
thinking we will with the temperatures, what they are and all that. But if necessary,
it is being worked on. The contact call down list
and all that is prepared, so we're basically there
and ready to go. Bill Kaspar is running around doing things
right now, but he asked me to relay to the board that
he has or shortly will make the emergency declaration
to Tom so that the power company can do those home connections
if necessary without needing to get permission and permits and all that.
And Bill also relays, he
has to be physically present at the scene of any building destruction
or damage, so he'll be in communication with the dispatch
desk to be able to do that throughout the storm. So
that pretty much... I just get a fire. Yeah, one other thing too,
I think you covered it earlier, but communication
with the public in the past couple storms has been a little raggedy
and we've got that really, really buttoned up now in about 20 different
ways. We're very happy with that. So talk about that a little more,
Raj, would you please? Again, as I said earlier, there's four ways
that we're going to be communicating with everybody. The first one will be
through the reverse 911 that is Chief O'Leary and Norfolk County
Sheriffs have got, along with the reverse 911 that Depp Spinelli
and the school district have. Both of those have been beefed up with phone numbers
since last year and we should have a larger amount of folks that we're
going to reach with that. The second one will be our actual medias,
working with Foxboro Cable, Foxboro Patch, making
sure that messages and information is getting out to the newspapers,
being with Frank from Foxboro Reporter, along with
using smartphone technology of
Facebook, Twitter, and that type of information. So medias will
be used. We also have an AM radio station being
1320 out of Latteboro that will also be broadcasting information
out of Foxboro using the AM radio station.
And then the last one will be, as Vicki brought up,
neighbors checking on neighbors, we'll be having hard copies of information
being at the common, along with hard copies of notices
at the public safety building and the senior center in
here if we're using the town hall and it's open. In regards to
the fire department, we did up staff. All of our equipment is ready, the generators,
the pumps, and we've been making sure that all of our equipment
is proactively ready since Friday. So, does that
answer? Yeah, thanks. I just have a couple quick things.
Mark just brought up my attention. Last year at this time, water
and sewer wasn't talked about too much and I think it's because they were very proactive.
They got the generators and there really wasn't a problem, but I'm assuming water and sewer,
the power stations and all that is suggested. Absolutely, and we already had one fuse
go off and Tom Coughlin and National Grid are already on top of it that affected
one of our pumps. But Roger Hill and his staff are
right in the communications loop and all of the information is being
looked at constantly.
And the other comment and question, looking back last year,
the department heads and the department staff and the select members, in addition to that,
there was a tremendous amount of volunteer people showing up to help
throughout, whether it's at the shelters or going door to
door. I'm looking out at Willie Long now. I'm probably going to put you on the
spot, but Willie, I've seen him at a lot of the school committee meetings and he's
the liaison a lot for the students in the school.
You were at the shelters. Are there any questions or any concerns that you'd want to share
from a school perspective? Nothing at all?
Okay.
I did actually talk to Lori that has helped organize all our volunteers
and she started making some phone calls on Friday and during the weekend.
And again, we can't do it all on our own. If it wasn't for
the volunteers that we have in this community and everybody pulling together,
it would be very, very difficult for me or anybody to be
able to handle everything. But I do believe
because we've had five days of really kind of planning for this,
all our volunteers, everybody's ready to go. And I have
no doubt in my mind if we make the call, they'll be there.
I don't know
Willie, Mr. Chairman, but it's a pleasure to meet you and I gotta say
my condolences. Here you got a snow day and you're here with us.
Sorry, but thanks. Well, yeah, snow day.
Day off. So as Raj says, the
beginning, the coordination with the volunteer networks has happened. The key
people have been contacted and we've got all the call down lists all prepared,
updated. Town halls, schools, department heads, contact
data, all that's been done. So we're basically ready to roll.
One other thing, we do have
what we think. The Pakistani delegation
beginning their visit tomorrow, now I apologize to you, it was on
and off and on and off and as of Friday it was on.
I don't have any information this morning yet whether it is in fact on or not.
We just don't know. We're assuming it is.
But, so I apologize that we haven't been able to get definitive
word to you, but it's just, you know, we don't know either.
On the assumption that this visit is on, I've given Frank
a boatload of information, we'll give it to the other press folks that are here
about what it is. But basically it's a delegation
of fairly high ranking Pakistani folks. They're like deputy minister type people.
State department program locally coordinated by the Mass
Municipal Association. We're one of, I think, three or four or five communities
having two or three people visit.
This will be the third rotation of Pakistanis
coming. I got a chance to meet some of them the first, the second rotation I think.
So we've got a nice schedule of events
planned, assuming it happens. Basically shadowing
different department heads visiting our facilities, learning about how we do
government. They'll be at your meeting tomorrow night and watching how
elected folks do their business. Their key concern
believe it or not, probably the number one on all
their lists, is how American politics
in our governmental system, in our electoral system, a very exciting time
for them to be here during the election. How we manage to do all this
without vast amounts of corruption and dishonesty. Not that
we're completely free of that, but by and large we're about 98 percent.
And that's fairly unique in the world.
Several other countries have been able to pull it off too, but we really do it well.
And so they're really fascinated to see how we do government free of
wholesale corruption, which is
very much the case in the rest of the world, particularly Middle East right now
where there's a lot of turmoil and disruption in governments that are in nebulous
form and what not. So they
I cannot tell you how much they're looking forward to watching the five
of you do your business tomorrow night. They're really, really interested in that.
Can you hear you?
Yeah. They are also, their number one request
other than seeing the board meeting, their number one request
was to watch the election. In the middle of a
storm emergency and
everything else that's going on, Bob very graciously offered
to give them an explanation as part of the schedule. I forget
what day it's on. Wednesday? Of
how an election takes place, how we do electronic voting and all that.
And how we keep the integrity in the system.
And then he's actually going to give them a quick tour
and emphasis on quick because that's a necessity of the polling place next week.
They'll be here this week and next week. The other thing that they
was very high on the list is they want to see
us doing American things in our
homes and the way we function.
So anybody wants to host them for a dinner with you and friends
Ann and I are having them over next week for dinner at our house. They're fascinated
by seeing how we live, frankly.
So tomorrow morning at nine o'clock we hope
we have no way to know but we're hoping they'll
have our opening reception. Jim I know it's late notice. I apologize
but if you can be here and assuming we are
going forward we'll have coffee and pastry
assuming we have power in the restaurant. Ron up at Lafayette House
is actually able to do it. If not we'll figure something out.
We're going to have them here and say hello. They'd love to meet you if you're
available. And Jack Offalette has very graciously
offered to do a presentation on the history of Foxboro.
Following that, assuming I have any time at all to work on it,
I'll be giving them sort of a how is our town government structured
so that as they go through things for the next two weeks
they'll understand what they're seeing and how it fits in our
style of government. The way we do it
in New England with town meeting is really very unusual from their point
of view. It's not like their model at all. So they're fascinated
by that and town meetings and all that sort of thing. So it'll be a lot of fun, hopefully.
Are you around tomorrow? I am now. Great, thank you.
I appreciate that. And again I apologize for the chaos
but it's really a manifestation of the storm. They didn't think they were going to get them
here. The plan was to fly them in Sunday to get ahead of the storm
and we're waiting word today to find out if they made it.
So hopefully they're right up the street in the hotel. Perfect, thank you.
And where this is a public meeting, any more discussion or questions while all the department heads are here?
So if someone sees a tree down, should they call
that same number at the fire department or should they call highway or
not an involving power? I would go through the fire department where we have Tom Coughlin
working with us, go right directly through us, we can handle it that way.
You guys all set?
Alright and department heads and staff and volunteers, thank you all for coming
and best of luck during the next couple hours.
Thank you.
Second. All those in favor?
That was either Fox 25 or 7. I don't know who it was.
Carrying a walking stick. We absolutely loved it.
Thank you.
