Measures of financial stability — a review 


Blaise Gadanecz and Kaushik Jayaram' 


Introduction 


Unlike price stability, financial stability is not easy to define or measure given the 
interdependence and the complex interactions of different elements of the financial system 
among themselves and with the real economy. This is further complicated by the time and 
cross-border dimensions of such interactions. However, over the past two decades, 
researchers from central banks and elsewhere have attempted to capture conditions of 
financial stability through various indicators of financial system vulnerabilities. Indeed, many 
central banks through their financial stability reports (FSRs) attempt to assess the risks to 
financial stability by focusing on a small number of key indicators. Moreover, there are 
ongoing efforts to develop a single aggregate measure that could indicate the degree of 
financial fragility or stress. Composite quantitative measures of financial system stability that 
could signal these conditions are intuitively attractive as they could enable policy makers and 
financial system participants to: (a) better monitor the degree of financial stability of the 
system, (b) anticipate the sources and causes of financial stress to the system and 
(c) communicate more effectively the impact of such conditions. 


The approach to the development of these measures of financial system stability has 
changed over the years as the locus of concern moved from micro-prudential to macro- 
prudential dimensions of financial stability. From the analysis of early warning indicators to 
monitor the state of the banking system, particularly the risk of default of individual 
institutions, the focus has shifted to a broader system-wide assessment of risks to the 
financial markets, institutions and infrastructure. More recently, the analytical focus has 
further concentrated on the dynamics of behaviour, the potential build-up of unstable 
conditions as well as the so called transmission mechanisms of shocks. A key issue 
underlying these analytical developments is the need to bridge the data gaps in several 
areas. Clearly this is an ongoing debate and a work in progress. 


This paper is a modest contribution to review the work done towards developing quantitative 
measures of financial stability and their use in published FSRs. The paper is structured as 
follows. In Section I, we look at definitions of financial stability and what they mean for 
identifying key variables, which we discuss in Section II. In Section Ill, we review how these 
individual variables might be combined into composite indicators for the purposes of 
monitoring key sectors of the economy and assigning critical values. In Section IV, we 
provide a comparative view of the main variables and indicators used in selected FSRs. In 
Section V we discuss recent attempts to construct a single aggregate measure of financial 
stability. The final section concludes. 


I Definition and identification of key financial system vulnerabilities 


Financial stability is difficult to define and even more difficult to measure. Strictly speaking, a 
financial system can be characterised as stable in the absence of excessive volatility, stress 





Monetary and Economic Department, Bank for International Settlements. The views expressed in this paper 
are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the BIS. 


IFC Bulletin No 31 365 


or crises. This narrow definition is relatively simple to formulate, but fails to capture the 
positive contribution of a well-functioning financial system to overall economic performance. 
Indeed, broader definitions of financial stability encompass the smooth functioning of a 
complex nexus of relationships among financial markets, infrastructures and institutions 
operating within the given legal, fiscal and accounting frameworks. Such definitions are more 
abstract but are more inclusive of the macro-economic dimension of financial stability and 
interactions between the financial and real sectors. From this perspective, financial stability 
can be defined as “a condition in which the financial system — comprising financial 
intermediaries, markets and market infrastructure — is capable of withstanding shocks and 
the unravelling of financial imbalances, thereby mitigating the likelihood of disruptions in the 
financial intermediation process which are severe enough to significantly impair the allocation 
of savings to profitable investment opportunities” (ECB (2007)). 


Given the imprecise nature of the broader view of financial system stability, most analysts 
concentrate on the risks and vulnerabilities of the financial system as these are relatively 
easy to understand and quantify. However, there are difficulties arising from the narrow 
definition too, insofar as a crisis is difficult to define. Different countries have been hit by 
different types of crises (banking crises, currency crises, debt crises, equity crises) over time 
and there are several ways of defining a crisis of each type, from purely binary indicators 
(failure of a bank, suspension of debt payments by a sovereign creditor) to other more 
quantifiable variables (eg number of insolvencies, magnitude of banking losses, GDP loss, 
magnitude of exchange rate fluctuation, decline of stock market index). Also important is the 
time horizon over which to measure a crisis. For instance Frankel and Rose (1996) define a 
currency crisis as a nominal depreciation of at least 25% that exceeds the previous year’s 
change by a margin of at least 10 percentage points. Patel and Sarkar (1998) identify equity- 
market crises using an a hybrid volatility loss measure in a window of 1 to 2 years. The 
interpretation of, as well as the benchmarks for, financial stability measures depend on the 
definition of crises. Nevertheless, several attempts have been made in the literature to try to 
identify and predict crises. 


ll Key financial stability segments and variables 


Policymakers and academic researchers have focused on a number of quantitative 
measures in order to assess financial stability. The set of Financial Soundness Indicators 
developed by the IMF (IMF (2006)) are examples of such indicators, as are the monitoring 
variables used in Hawkins and Klau (2000), Nelson and Perli (2005) and Gray et al (2007) 
which focus on market pressures, external vulnerability and banking system vulnerability. 


Table 1 summarises the measures commonly used in the literature, their frequency, what 
they measure, as well as their signalling properties. The focus is on six main sectors. 


Firstly, the real sector is described by GDP growth, the fiscal position of the government and 
inflation. GDP growth reflects the ability of the economy to create wealth and its risk of 
overheating. The fiscal position of the government mirrors its ability to find financing for its 
expenses above its revenue (and the associated vulnerability of the country to the 
unavailability of financing). Inflation may indicate structural problems in the economy, and 
public dissatisfaction with it may in turn lead to political instability. 


Secondly, the corporate sector’s riskiness can be assessed by its leverage and expense 
ratios, its net foreign exchange exposure to equity and the number of applications for 
protection against creditors. 


Thirdly, the household sector's health can be gauged through its net assets (assets minus 
liabilities) and net disposable income (earnings minus consumption minus debt service and 
principal payments). Net assets and net disposable earnings can measure households’ 
ability to weather (unexpected) downturns. 


366 IFC Bulletin No 31 


Le ON UnAIINg Ol 


LOE 





Table 1 


Commonly used variables 














Sectors Measure Frequency What do they measure Signalling properties 
Real Economy GDP growth QorA Indicative of the strength of the macro- Negative, or low positive values would indicate a 
economy, GDP is a key measure slowdown; excessively high values may show 
especially used in conjunction with unsustainable growth 
measures such as credit expansion, 
fiscal deficit. 

Fiscal position of government | A, QorM Ability of government to find financing, High deficit values relative to GDP can mean unsustainable 
vulnerability of sovereign debtor to government indebtedness and vulnerability of the 
unavailability of financing sovereign debtor 

Inflation MorA Rate of increase of various price indices High levels of inflation would signal structural weakness in 

the economy and increased levels of indebtedness, 
potentially leading to a tightening of monetary conditions. 
Conversely, low levels of inflation could potentially increase 
the risk appetite in the financial markets. 

Corporate sector Total debt to equity QorA Corporations’ leverage Excessively high levels may signal difficulties in meeting 
debt obligations 

Earnings to interest and QorA Corporations’ ability to meet payment Excessively low levels of liquidity may signal inability to 

principal expenses obligations relying on internal resources meet debt obligations 

Net foreign exchange QorA Currency mismatch High levels of this ratio may signal difficulties in the 

exposure to equity corporate sector arising from adverse currency moves 

Corporate defaults QorA Insolvencies in the corporate sector High values can signal future problems in the banking 

sector, if insufficiently provisioned 
Household sector | Household assets (financial, | A, QorM 

real estate’) Assets and debt can be used to compute 
net household assets 

Household debt A, QorM Net household assets and 

Household income (labour A, QorM eaeay apes ice to 

income, savings income) . . " my 
Income, consumption and debt service weather (unexpected) 

Household consumption A, QorM payments can be combined to compute economic downturns 

Household debt service and | A,QorM nel disneeAblaincene 





principal payments 














89€ 


Le ON UnelINg Oal 





Table 1 (cont) 
Commonly used variables 











Sectors Measure Frequency What do they measure Signalling properties 
External sector (Real) exchange rates D Over-/undervaluation of a currency Over- or undervaluation of currency can trigger a crisis 
(capital outflows, massive inflows or loss of export 
competitiveness) 
Foreign exchange reserves D Ability of country to resist external shocks | Reserves below short-term foreign debt, or below three 
months’ worth of exports can signal problems 
Current account/capital flows | A, QorM Trade position of country Significant trade deficits require large capital inflows in 
order to be financed; this raises sustainability issues about 
such inflows 
Maturity/currency A, QorM Disparity in the currency/maturity Maturity and currency mismatches can expose the 
mismatches composition of assets and liabilities economy to adverse shocks in case of adverse currency 
movements or sudden reversals of capital inflows 
Financial sector Monetary aggregates Transactions, saving, credit Excessive growth can signal inflationary pressures 
(Real) interest rates D Cost of credit, ability to attract deposits Real interest rates above a threshold likely to exceed the 
sustainability of debt. trend rate of economic growth, making debt/GDP ratios 
explosive; negative real rates may mean banks will struggle 
to attract deposits 
Growth in bank credit M 
Bank leverage ratios, QorA Very rapid loan growth has often accompanied declining 
NPLs QorA loan standards/greater risk. Excessively high loan losses, 
Risk premia (CDS); D Riskiness of the banking sector leverage ratios and risk premia can foreshadow a banking 
credit risk component of crisis. Loan losses/GDP can measure cost of a banking 
3 month LIBOR — OIS crisis for economy 
spreads 
Capital adequacy QorA Banks’ capital cushion size to address Excessively low levels of this ratio points to potential 
expected or unexpected losses defaults and can be a forerunner of a banking crisis 
Liquidity ratio QorA Ratio of banks’ readily available short- Excessively low levels of this ratio can lead to a systemic 
term resources that can be used to meet | crisis 
short-term obligations 
Standalone bank credit Irregular Individual strength of banks, after the Possible coincident indicator of banks’ condition, likely to 





ratings 








effect of government or other guarantees 
has been taken into account 





influence their future funding costs 





Le ON UnAIINg Ol 


69€ 





Table 1 (cont) 


Commonly used variables 











Sectors Measure Frequency What do they measure Signalling properties 
Financial sector Sectoral/regional QorA Concentration or diversification of banks’ | Can proxy for speed of propagation of shocks in the 
(cont) concentration, systemic lending strategy economy 
focus 
Financial markets | Change in Equity Indices D Net worth of, present value of future Above-trend growth in index, or very high levels of market 
cash-flows of firms comprising the index to book value can be indicative of an equity price bubble 
Corporate bond spreads D Riskiness of debt compared to risk-free Spikes in spreads can suggest higher levels of risk, 
instruments changes in risk appetite, changes in the incorporation of 
news into prices by the market 
Market liquidity D Price attached by the market to the ease _ | Spikes in these premia can reflect disruptions in market 
(Government bonds, liquidity with which liquid instruments can be liquidity 
risk component of 3m LIBOR traded 
— OIS spreads) 
Volatility D Intensity of price movements on markets | Low volatility can be indicative of a calm market, but also of 
Ease of trade on the market failings in the price discovery process. High volatility can 
mirror a disruption of market liquidity. 
House prices Q,AorM House price bubble, consumption boom fuelled by equity 














withdrawals, potential losses to financial sector in case of 
downturn in prices 





Note: A = annual 
1 


Q= quarterly M=monthly D = daily. Data available with a high frequency may sometimes be used with a lower frequency for FS monitoring. 


Measuring the financial assets of households is complicated by the measurement issues related to house price measures and the treatment of owner-occupied housings. 


These issues were discussed at an IFC conference held in August 2006 in Basel. The conference proceedings have been published in IFC Bulletins 25 and 26. 


Source: compiled by the authors. 





Fourthly, the conditions in the external sector are reflected by real exchange rates, foreign 
exchange reserves, the current account, capital flows and maturity/currency mismatches. 
These variables can be reflective of sudden changes in the direction of capital inflows, of loss 
of export competitiveness, and of the sustainability of the foreign financing of domestic debt. 


Fifthly, the financial sector is characterised by monetary aggregates, real interest rates, risk 
measures for the banking sector, banks’ capital and liquidity ratios, the quality of their loan 
book, standalone credit ratings and the concentration/systemic focus of their lending 
activities. All these proxies can be reflective of problems in the banking or financial sector 
and, if a crisis occurs, they can gauge the cost of such a crisis to the real economy. 


Lastly, variables relevant to describe conditions on financial markets are equity indices, 
corporate spreads, liquidity premia and volatility. High levels of risk spreads can indicate a 
loss of investors’ risk appetite and possibly financing problems for the rest of the economy. 
Liquidity disruptions may be a materialisation of the market's ability to efficiently allocate 
surplus funds to investment opportunities within the economy. 


Typically financial stability analysis would use several sectoral variables either individually or 
in combinations. The use of such measures including the financial soundness indicators as 
key indicators of financial stability depends on the benchmarks and thresholds which would 
characterise their behaviour in normal times and during periods of stress. In the absence of 
benchmarks, the analysis of these measures would depend on identifying changes in trend, 
major disturbances and other outliers (Worrell (2004)). 


ll Composite indicators 


A financial system consists of a number of key sectors, and interactions? between these 
sectors. The situation is further complicated by the non-linearities that can affect the 
propagation of shocks and their transmission from one sector to another (White (2004), 
ECB (2005)). For instance, there are links between monetary and financial stability, as 
monetary conditions will be affected by asset prices and vice versa. For all intents and 
purposes, it is not enough to focus on deviations from benchmarks in individual sectors for 
an overall assessment of financial stability. Whilst individual variables and indicators are 
useful in analysing the functioning of the financial systems, various studies have attempted to 
develop composite indicators which would better signal or predict the onset of financial 
distress. Beginning with the studies on early warning indicators attempts are ongoing to 
develop leading indicators which would signal conditions of stress. When multiple indicators 
are available, it would be necessary to combine them in ways that would best capture the 
interactions between relevant individual indicators. Composite indicators are such 
combinations of the individual variables (eg bank credit related to GDP) which can be 





For instance, problems in the real sector can affect the household sector (through job losses, loss of income, 
inability of the government to provide social benefits), the external sector (through loss of foreign investor 
confidence), the corporate sector (through reduced demand) and the financial sector (through its exposures to 
defaults in the corporate and household sectors). A sudden reversal of external capital flows can negatively 
affect all sectors of the economy. Difficulties in the financial sector can hit all sectors of the economy adversely 
by reducing the availability of funding. Problems in the corporate sector can translate into an economic 
downturn, can create losses in the financial sector through exposures and directly affect households through 
changes in remuneration and employment levels. A household sector in bad health can adversely influence 
the real economy (through reduced consumption) and the financial sector (through losses on household 
exposures). Lastly, disruptive financial market conditions can directly affect the health of the financial sector, 
to the extent that financial institutions are market participants. Households can also be negatively affected by 
adverse financial asset price movements insofar as they invest on financial markets or own real estate. 


370 IFC Bulletin No 31 


assigned benchmark or threshold values for the purposes of monitoring key sectors of the 
economy and serving as leading indicators of crises. 


A number of studies applied the early warning indicator methods initially developed in the 
literature for currency and balance of payments crises to banking crises. Earlier work includes, 
among others, Calvo et al (1993), Eichengreen et al (1996), Turner and Goldstein (1996) 
Frankel and Rose (1996). Demirgu¢g-Kunt and Detragiache (1997) use a multivariate Logit 
approach to identify determinants of banking crises in a large panel of developing and 
industrialised countries: slow GDP growth and high inflation, vulnerability to sudden capital 
outflows, low liquidity in the banking sector, a high share of credit to the private sector, past 
credit growth, explicit deposit insurance and weak institutions. Kaminsky and Reinhardt (1999) 
identify early warning indicators of twin (banking and balance of payments) crises, such as 
credit and equity prices, by looking at the ability of such variables to predict crises 12 or 
24 months ahead, while minimising the noise® to signal ratio. Borio and Lowe (2002) and 
Borio and Drehmann (2009) build on the techniques developed by Kaminsky and 
Reinhardt (1999). Like the latter, they define threshold values for the indicators, but unlike 
them, they look at cumulative processes rather than just growth rates over one year, they 
use ex ante information (ie information which was available to the policymaker prior to the 
crisis) and, for the first time, they consider combinations of indicators and look at multiple 
time horizons. 


Goodhart et al (2006) state that financial crisis monitoring can effectively be done with an 
indicator of banking sector profitability as well as the probability of default. Gerdrup (2003) 
uses banking indicators (number of banks, balance sheet indicators) and market indicators 
(asset prices) as determinants of the Norwegian crisis, controlling for non-financial sector 
indebtedness and macroeconomic factors. It has also been recognised in the literature 
(Nelson and Perli (2005), ECB (2005), Van den End (2006)) that in addition to balance-sheet 
based information, there is need for market information, not least because of the interactions 
between bank- and non-bank financial intermediation.* 


Illing and Liu (2003) and Van den End (2006) provide a good descriptions of how one might 
attempt to build a composite indicator of financial stability. To begin with, relevant variables 
need to be selected. The choice is most often based on the early warning indicators literature 
(Demirgt¢-Kunt and Detragiache (1998), Kaminsky, et al (1998), Bordo and Schwartz (2000)) 
and typically covers the banking system, the foreign exchange market and the equity market. 
Risk spreads and market liquidity are the two concepts most often used. Obviously, the 
choice of variables must also reflect the structure of the country’s financial system. For 
instance, more importance should be attached to banking system indicators in countries 
where bank intermediation is more significant than market financing (ECB (2007)). Then, the 
single aggregate measure is calculated as a weighted average of the variables previously 
identified, each with a suitable lag. One important aspect of the weighted average 
construction is the weights. These can be determined in five different ways. Firstly, common 





> Failure to predict a crisis or a false alarm. 


“ A number of desirable properties of a good composite indicator can be noted. It must be internationally 


comparable, if the analysis is conducted on several countries. Gers] and Hefmanek (2006) underline that 
differences in national accounting standards do not allow full cross-country comparison for some of the core 
set of the IMF’s Financial Soundness Indicators. Furthermore, as pointed out in Cihak (2007), a good indicator 
must be easy to calculate, as well as to interpret; the assumptions that support it have to be robust, its 
theoretical underpinnings clear. For instance, backing out risk aversion measures from prices observed on the 
market rests on the assumption that prices can be observed on the market at all times. This assumption of 
market liquidity is not necessarily robust in the sense that liquidity can evaporate in times of stress. Lastly, 
although formalising the outcomes of tail events is important, a composite indicator has to be a useful 
measure of stress (eg it has to measure the build-up of imbalances) in the system even in the absence of 
extreme events. 


IFC Bulletin No 31 371 


factors analysis can be performed.° Secondly, a weight representing the importance (size) of 
the market which it proxies for can be assigned to each factor. Thirdly, sample cumulative 
distribution functions can be estimated.° Fourthly, the results of economic simulations with a 
macro-economic model can be used to determine the weights.’ Fifthly, the variance-equal 
method can be chosen. This latter approach is the one most commonly used in the literature 
and consists of normalising each variable and then assigning equal weights. 


IV Use of indicators and variables in financial stability reports 


Most analyses of financial stability as reflected in the financial stability reports® (FSRs) 
extensively focus on various market segments and the variables listed in Table 1. However, 
the use of composite indicators is not very widespread in published financial stability reports. 
Table 2 provides a summary of the key indicators used by selected central banks in their 
FSRs. The selected sample represents a mix of industrial and emerging market economies 
with a diversified geographical distribution. Included in the list are a number of institutions 
whose reports compute composite measures in one form or the other.° 


Key sectors and variables 


When it comes to specific variables used in the FSRs, there are several common areas. Not 
surprisingly, the focus depends on the specific conditions in the economy and areas of 
observed and perceived vulnerabilities. Past episodes are also a guide. Many emerging 
market economies extensively focus on capital inflows, the balance of payment situation and 
exchange rate movements, while industrial countries focus on their banks’ exposure to 
emerging markets. Banking ratios are extensively analysed in most reports although there 
are differences. Some reports tend to concentrate on the banks’ performance and risks in 
considerable detail, while the others include insurance, hedge funds and other forms of non- 
bank financial intermediation. Where banking is the main form of intermediation, the available 
information would also depend on the level of supervisory input in preparing the report. 
Appropriately, many FSRs focus on systemically important banks as well as regions or 
sectors. For instance, the Austrian FSR has a strong focus on the developments in eastern 
European markets while the HKMA report extensively analyses the developments in south 
east Asia and China. With some exceptions, the FSRs reviewed here do not discuss 
monetary policy variables. A likely explanation is that central banks use other channels such 
as monetary policy statements or Inflation Reports for that purpose. 





Such analysis consists in extracting weighed linear combinations of a number of variables, maximising the 
variance of each linear combination, while minimising the variance around it. The purpose of the exercise is to 
reduce the number of variables and detect the structure in the relationships between variables. 


Each variable is transformed into percentiles, so that the highest (lowest) levels of stress are characterised by 
the 99th (first) percentile. Then, the transformed variables are averaged using chain linked arithmetic and 
geometric means. 


Using a backward-sloping IS curve, Van den End (2006) estimates the impulse of changes in financial 
soundness indicators on GDP is estimated to determine weights. 


Over 40 central banks regularly publish financial stability reports either annually or bi-annually. 


The institutions/countries included in Table 2 represent an eclectic sample merely to illustrate typical use and 
is not intended as an exhaustive coverage of all published reports. 


372 IFC Bulletin No 31 


Le ON UHAIINg Ol 


eLe 




















Table 2 
Data including composite indicators in selected FSRs 
Sector/Indicators AT AU BR CA CH CZ ES GB HK HU ID SE TR ECB' | IMF 
Composite index +47 +3 +4 
Banking index +° + + a +6 
Financial conditions index +! +8 + +49 410 
Monetary conditions index + 
Real sector 
GDP + + +, St + + + + + + + + + + 
Fiscal deficit + + + + + + + 
Inflation + +, St + ++ + + + ++ + + 
Household finance ++ ++ + ++ ++ ++ + ++ + ++ ++ + + 
Corporate finance ++ ++ + + + ++ + ++ + ++ +4" + ++ 
Policy rate’ + + +, St + rs + + ui 
Monetary aggregates + + + + + + ++ 
External sector 
FX rates Vo Vo, St + Vo Vo + ++ Vo +,Vo Vo Vo |Vo,Vi| Vo 
FX exposures ++, Vo + + + + + ++ 
BOP + + + + + + + + ++ 
Capital flows + + + + + + ++ + + ++ 
Reserves + + + +4 + fe ++ 
Financial sector’ 
Profitability + ++ + + + + ++ + + + + + + +"4 +15 
Capital ratios +, St + + + + + ++ + + + + ++, St + + 


















































vLle 


Le ON UneIINg Oal 





Table 2 (cont) 
Data including composite indicators in selected FSRs 








Sector/Indicators AT AU BR CA CH CZ ES GB HK HU ID SE TR ECB' | IMF 
Credit (Loans) + ++ + + + + + + ++ + ++ ++ + 
Liabilities (deposits) + ++ + + + + + + ++ + + + + 
Liquidity +, St + + + +, St ++ ++, St ++ +, St + 
Credit Risk + ++ +, St + ++ +,Vo | +, St +,St +, St + +,St | +,St | +,St ++ 
Market risk + ++ +, St VaR + +, St +, St is 
Interest rate risk ay +, St +" St + + +, St St ++ 
Asset quality’” ++ + ++ + + +'8 ++ ++ + ++ + + + + 
Sectoral/Regional + + ++ ++ ++ + + + + + + + 
Systemic focus + ++ + + ++ ++ + + + + ++ 





Financial Markets 


Government Bonds Y Y Y, St Y Y Y Y,Sr | Y,Sr Sr, Y, Vii Y, Sr 

Corporate Bonds Sr, Vol Sr, Vo + Y, Sr Sr Sr, Vo S, Vo, V' Sr, Vo, YY, Sr, R} Sr, Vo, Sr | Sr, Vi, | Sr, Y 
Vi Vo, Sr 

Money markets Vo Sr, Vo; Vo Sr Sr, Vo] Y” S,Vo, Vi} Sr  |Sr, Vi, Y} Y, Sr | Sr, Vo Sr Vi, Vo | Sr, Sr 

Equity prices Vo Vo Vo Vo Vo Vo Vo, Vi | Vo, Vi Vo +,Y Vo Vo, Vi Vo Vo Vo, Vi 

Real estate prices Vo Vo Vo Vo Vo + Vo Vo + Vo Vo 


















































Notes: R — ratings, St — Stress test based, Sr -— riskiness and liquidity spreads, Vo — observed volatility, Vi — implied volatility, VaR -— Value at risk, Y — Average yield, 
+ denotes the use of one indicator, ++ denotes the use of several indicators. 


‘ Euro area indicators as well as global comparisons. ? Qualitative assessment based on sources, likelihood and impact of tail risks on six key vulnerabilities in the 


financial system. : Single aggregate index of financial stability. “ Global financial stability map summarising risks and prospects of macro—financial environment. 
° Stress index for Swiss banks. ° Separate composite indices for volatility and trading and market liquidity. ’ Separate indexes for creditworthiness and market liquidity. 
A composite financial market liquidity index. ? Multiple composite measures are used to estimate credit/equity/GDP gaps, financing gaps for non-financial companies and 
composite inter—bank liquidity indicator. ‘° Banking stability index. "' Including a Real Sector Confidence index. CB monetary policy rate. '* In most cases these 
indicators refer to Banking Sector only. es Large complex banking groups. Including estimates of losses from write-downs of exposures. ‘S10 day VaR figures. 
Typically includes non-performing loans, observed and estimated default rates and loss provisioning. ‘8 NPL and doubtful assets to gross loans. aE yield average. 


Source: compiled by the authors, based on Central Banks’ FSRs. 





Four sets of specific variables are used at the ECB (ECB (2007)). Firstly, the banking 
sectors balance-sheet (reflecting the continued significance of bank-based financial 
intermediation in the euro area), especially profitability, asset quality and capital adequacy. 
Particular attention is devoted to large and complex banking groups (LCBGs). Secondly, 
major sources of risk to the financial sector. This would include an assessment of competitive 
conditions in the banking sector, credit growth and banking exposure concentrations. More 
generally, it would cover asset price developments, business cycle and monetary conditions 
as well as measures of financial fragility in the counterpart sectors to banks (primarily 
households and non-financial corporations). Thirdly, the resilience of the financial sector 
based on its risk-absorption capacity (market-based and qualitative). Fourthly, forward- 
looking measures derived from securities prices (option implied risk-neutral distributions, 
direct default risks for LCBGs based on Moody’s KMV, bid-ask spreads for EONIA swaps as 
a proxy for liquidity in the euro area money market, historical and implied volatilities, shape of 
the yield curve, term premia, options-implied skewness coefficient for German ten-year 
bonds). 


Other central banks (BoE, Riksbank, Bank of Canada) also look at various components of 
financial stability through specific variables. In terms of their usage of market data, these 
central banks are fairly consistent with one another by their focus on equity prices, corporate 
and sovereign credit risk spreads, liquidity premia and volatility. As far as the real sector is 
concerned, GDP forecasts, incoming portfolio investment, official interest rates and sub- 
prime mortgage delinquency rates versus foreclosure rates are monitored. 


In relation to the financial market turbulence that started in the summer of 2007, industrial 
economies’ central banks have followed the market for mortgage backed securities. In 
particular, they have monitored issuance volumes, together with the maturity-related 
characteristics (in particular, duration and convexity) of such securities in order to estimate 
by how much long-term interest rate shocks are likely to be amplified by mortgage-related 
hedging flows. The BoE carries observed and market-expected losses on sub-prime 
mortgages and asset backed securities, in addition to house prices and a range of housing 
market activity measures (site visits, net reservations, new buyer enquiries net balances, 
sales to stock ratio and number of loan approvals fore house purchases). 


Data on individual financial institutions are based on surveys and supervisory returns, as well 
as market data such as CDS spreads or indices. In order to monitor funding conditions for 
systemically important banks, several industrial economies’ central banks look at the 
difference between three-month interbank rates relative to expected policy rates. That 
difference can then be further decomposed into liquidity and credit risk premia. Aggregate 
balance sheets of the national banking systems are typically published, broken down by 
geography, sector, maturity, riskiness. A number of additional measures of the banking system 
are analysed, eg annual write-off rates, customer funding gaps, intraday liquidity buffers, 
funding sources, profitability, capitalisation, equity returns, income mix (fees vs spreads), 
cost efficiency, share price volatility. Common large exposure counterparts are flagged. 
Some central banks also monitor funds’ (eg hedge funds’, pension funds’) performance and 
trading events. The systemic importance of such funds, given the size of the assets under 
their management and the fact that they are counterparties to large systemically important 
banks (which act as prime brokers for them) arguably warrants this kind of monitoring. 


In their monitoring of non-financial corporations in industrial and emerging economies, many 
industrial economies focus on CDS spreads, together with corporate finance data and default 
probabilities computed from Moody’s KMV model. Using these individual default probabilities, 
multiple default probabilities can be calculated, which presumably do a better job of 
identifying market-wide distress than individual default probabilities. 


IFC Bulletin No 31 375 


Aggregate measures 


The use of aggregate measures in some of the FSRs listed in Table 2 is very recent and in 
many cases not more than one or two years old. It is early as yet to make an assessment of 
their performance. 


Of the composite measures used, the Czech National Bank (CNB), the Swiss National 
Bank (SNB), and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) use an aggregate measure to 
reflect banking stability or fragility. The SNB stress index for the banking sector is calculated 
from market data, balance sheet figures and non-public data from the supervisory authority. 
This continuous indicator measures stress in terms of deviation from the historical trend. The 
HKMA has developed a Probit model"? to estimate early warning indicators of banking 
distress. It uses quarterly panel data on macroeconomic fundamentals, estimates of default 
risk of individual banks and non-financial companies, asset price movements and contagion 
factors. The HKMA also computes a monetary conditions index which would reflect the 
monetary aggregates in the economy. 


The CNB computes a banking stability index using weighted average of sub-indicators of 
banking sector soundness including capital adequacy, profitability, balance sheet liquidity, 
asset quality, credit and currency risk. The constructed index of financial ratios is expressed 
in terms of the standard deviation from its historical average. Additionally, the CNB also 
computes composite indices of financial conditions to reflect liquidity and creditworthiness of 
non-financial companies. 


The Central Bank of Turkey calculates a financial strength index as a weighted average of 
partial indicators of the financial soundness of banks. The index combines six areas of 
financial soundness indicators, viz capital adequacy, profitability, liquidity, asset quality, 
interest rate risk and exchange rate risk. 


The ECB computes a composite indicator of financial market liquidity in the euro area, similar 
to the market liquidity indicator of the BoE. The ECB indicator combines several measures 
covering four different markets and three different dimensions of market liquidity (tightness, 
depth and resilience) as well as liquidity premia. The National Bank of Hungary also 
calculates a liquidity index along these lines. 


The IMF is developing a banking stability index. For this purpose, it considers the banking 
system as a portfolio, and based on the market-based probability of default of each individual 
bank it estimates the joint default probabilities, ie the expected number of bank defaults in 
the system, given that at least one bank defaults (see IMF (2008)). 


Most such indexes are constructed as a series going back over several years; the Czech 
Index, for instance, goes back to 1997 whilst the SNB stress index goes back to 1987. These 
indices correlate well with past episodes of financial stress and reflect the risks that have 
already materialised. What is not clear, however, is their ability to predict the onset of a crisis. 
Given that the banking sector is predominant and the construction of the index depends on 
the use of balance sheet data, it is likely that exposures not reported in the balance sheet 
might not be fully reflected. On the other hand, a more broad based measure of financial 
conditions such as market liquidity or market risk which relies on market data would be better 
able to signal conditions of stress in the short term. 





‘0 The model draws on a number of earlier studies including Kaminsky and Reinhart (1999) and Demirgu¢-Kunt 


and Detragiache (1998). 


376 IFC Bulletin No 31 


V Towards a single aggregate measure of financial stability 


As described in the previous section, some central banks have started developing aggregate 
measures that reflect the conditions of a key sector such as banking or key financial market 
conditions. There are very few instances of a single overarching aggregate measure of 
financial stability. However, some institutions have begun to present a consolidated view of 
the risks and prospects qualitatively through charts, heat maps or assessment grids. There 
also instances of single quantitative indexes. 


The IMF has started publishing a global financial stability map which presents an 
assessment of the risks and the underlying conditions for the global financial system. The 
shifting contours of credit risk, market and liquidity risks, as well as the macro-financial 
conditions from the previous period reflect the IMF’s view of the risks and prospects ahead. 
Quantitative analysis underpins the construction of this map although the final positioning is 
based on judgement. Leading indicators in six broad areas are considered: monetary and 
financial conditions in leading industrial countries, risk appetite in global financial markets, 
macro-economic risks in G3 and OECD countries, emerging market risks credit risks and 
market risks (IMF (2008)). 


The BoE presents its assessment of the outlook and prospects, presented in qualitative 
terms, which are underpinned by quantitative modelling of the key vulnerabilities of the 
UK financial system. As such, an overview of the financial system is presented in the form of 
an assessment based on the sources, likelihood and impact of tail risks on six key 
vulnerabilities in the financial system. In addition, a composite financial market liquidity index 
is computed (which is a simple unweighted average of nine liquidity measures, normalised 
on the period 1999-2004). Prospects for the UK financial system, as well as the corollary risk 
mitigation, are assessed. 


Along the lines described in Illing and Liu (2003) and Van den End (2006), respectively, the 
Bank of Canada and the Nederlandsche Bank construct single aggregate measures of 
financial stability (albeit not published in their FSRs). Illing and Liu (2003) argue that their 
single aggregate measures compare favourably in their ability to flag crises with composite 
partial measures commonly used in the literature. Van den End (2006) notes that by 
combining market and balance sheet information on financial institutions, the Financial 
Stability Conditions Index of the Netherlands Bank appears to make a significant contribution 
beyond a traditional financial conditions index which might only look at one sector. 


Bank Indonesia computes a broad based financial stability index which, in addition to the 
banking sector indicators uses leading macro-economic and external sector indicators on a 
monthly basis to reflect the financial system stability more generally. 


Although the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System does not publish a financial 
stability review, it has an index of financial fragility, constructed in two steps (Nelson and 
Perli (2005)). First, the information contained in 12 individual variables"’ is reduced to 3 
summary statistics, their rate of change and their correlation. Second, a Logit model is 
estimated to obtain the probability that, at any given time and based on the three summary 


"Based on interest rates and asset prices, a number of market liquidity proxies are monitored: bid-ask spreads, 
trading volumes, liquidity premia (difference in spread between highly liquid and less liquid securities). Risk 
spreads are also followed, in particular swap spreads (proxies for the credit quality of the banking sector and 
market liquidity), agency spreads and commercial paper spreads. Equity premia are analysed, although 
interpreting them is difficult, as it is difficult to disentangle economic information changing agents’ earnings 
expectations, changes in certainty about economic outcomes and changes in risk appetite. Finally, implied 
volatilities derived from option prices, bearing in mind that risk-neutral PDFs contain market participants’ risk 
aversion. 


IFC Bulletin No 31 377 


statistics, the behaviour of financial markets is analogous to that of high stress events 
(eg 11 September 2001). " 


Conclusion 


In theory, composite indicators of financial stability are better suited for the definition of 
threshold or benchmark values to indicate the state of financial system stability than 
individual variables. Moreover, they are useful measures of stress (eg they can be used to 
gauge the build-up of imbalances) in the system even in the absence of extreme events. 
However, as Gersl and Hefmanek (2006) point out, the construction of a single aggregate 
measure of financial stability is a difficult task given the complex nature of the financial 
system and the existence of complex links between various sectors. In the absence of an 
overarching aggregate, partial composite measures such as a banking stability index or a 
market liquidity index are used in several FSRs. Regardless of whether a single aggregate 
measure of financial stability is constructed or not, FSRs would need to analyse key 
variables in the real, banking and financial sectors as well as variables in the external sector. 


There is some diversity in construction and use of the key indicators. For broader cross- 
country comparisons it would be useful to have an appropriate template and methodology for 
such indicators, although countries’ individual circumstances make such an exercise difficult 
(due, notably, to the varying relative importance of individual financial system components 
and to differing degrees of openness of the economies concerned). If one goes a step further 
and tries to compute a single aggregate measure of financial stability, the weightings of the 
different variables that constitute such an aggregate measure have to reflect this accordingly. 
For instance, a maturity mismatch between short-term liabilities and long-term assets may 
have to be assigned a low weight, because maturity transformation is a common feature of 
the banking business and banks can successfully manage part of this risk using interest rate 
derivatives. Likewise, the fact that low volatility on a market can mean stable conditions as 
well as failings in the price discovery process should be considered when assigning a weight 
to market volatility. 


Although some central banks have experimented with computing single aggregate measures 
of financial stability, no such measures can be used without knowledge and use of other — 
quantitative or qualitative — instruments. Moreover, although single aggregate measures 
reflect the financial system conditions well post facto, it is not yet clear how well they would 
perform in signalling the onset of financial stress. 


The private sector has also made attempts at computing single aggregate measures of financial stability. Illing 


and Liu (2003) note that the Bank Credit Analyst produces a monthly stress index which incorporates major 
banks’ share price performance, credit spreads, private sector indebtedness, stock market leverage, overall 
stock market performance, consumer confidence, the slope of the yield curve and stock and bond issuance. 
Bordo, Dueker and Wheelock (2000) construct a financial instability index with lags, incorporating bank 
failures, non-financial business bankruptcies, an ex post real interest rate and an interest rate quality spread. 
Commercial and investment banks produce indices, such as the JP Morgan Liquidity, Credit and Volatility 
Index, the Credit Suisse First Boston Emerging Markets Risk Indicator, the Deutsche Bank Alarm Clock and 
the Goldman Sachs GS-Watch. 


378 IFC Bulletin No 31 


References 


Bank of England (2008), Financial Stability Report, no 23, April. 


Bordo, M and A Schwartz (2000): “Measuring real economic effects of bailouts: historical 
perspectives on how countries in financial stress have fared with and without bailouts.” 
NBER Working Paper, no 7701. 


Bordo, M, MJ Dueker and DC Wheelock (2000): “Aggregate price shocks and financial 
instability: an historical analysis”, NBER Working Paper, no 7652. 


Borio, C and M Drehmann (2009): “Assessing the risk of banking crises — revisited”, BIS 
Quarterly Review, March. 


Borio, C and P Lowe (2002): “Asset prices, financial and monetary stability: exploring the 
nexus”, BIS Working Papers, no 114, July. 


Calvo, GA, L Leiderman and CM Reinhart (1993): “Capital inflows and real exchange rate 
appreciation: the role of external factors”, International Monetary Fund Staff Papers, no 40, 
vol 1, pp 108-51, March. 


Cihak, M (2007): “Systemic loss: a measure of financial stability’, Czech Journal of 
Economics and Finance, no 57, vol 1-2, pp 5—26. 


DemirgUg¢-Kunt, A and E Detragiache (1997): “The determinants of banking crises — evidence 
from developing and developed countries’, IMF Working Papers 97/106, International 
Monetary Fund. 


(1998). “The Determinants of Banking Crises in Developing and Developed 
Countries.” International Monetary Fund Staff Papers, no 45, vol 1, pp 81-109. 


Eichengreen, B, A Rose and C Wyplosz (1996): “Contagious currency crises’, NBER 
Working papers, no 5681. 


Eichengreen, B and AK Rose (1999): “The empirics of currency and banking crises”, a non- 
theoretical study of financial crises), NBER Reporter, December. 


European Central Bank (2005): “Measurement challenges in assessing financial stability’, 
ECB Financial Stability Review, December. 


(2007): “Progress towards a framework for financial stability assessment”, 
speech by José-Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, Member of the Executive Board of the ECB, 
OECD World Forum on “Statistics, Knowledge and Policy”, Istanbul, 28 June. 


Frankel, J and A Rose (1996): “Currency crashes in emerging markets: empirical indicators”, 
Journal of International Economics, vol 41, pp 351-66. 


Gerdrup, KR (2003): “Three episodes of financial fragility in Norway since the 1890s”, BIS 
Working Papers, no 142, October. 


Gers], A and J Hefmanek (2006): “Financial Stability Indicators: advantages and 
disadvantages of their use in the assessment of the financial system stability’, Czech 
National Bank Financial Stability Review. 


Goodhart, C, O Aspachs, M Segoviano, D Tsomocos and L Zicchino (2006): “Searching for a 
metric for financial stability’, LSE Financial Markets Group Special Paper Series, Special 
Paper no 167, May. 


Gray, DF, RC Merton and Z Bodie (2007): “New framework for measuring and managing 
macrofinancial risk and financial stability”, NBER Working Paper no 13607, November. 


Haim, Y and R Levy (2007): “Using the balance sheet approach in financial stability 
surveillance: analyzing the Israeli economy’s resilience to exchange rate risk”, Bank of Israel 
Discussion Papers no 1/07, January. 


IFC Bulletin No 31 379 


Hawkins, J and M Klau (2000): “Measuring potential vulnerabilities in emerging market 
economies”, BIS Working Papers, no 91, October. 


Illing M and Y Liu (2003): “An index of financial stress for Canada”, Bank of Canada Working 
Paper no 2003-14, June. 


International Monetary Fund (2006): Financial Soundness Indicators: Compilation Guide, 
March. 


International Monetary Fund (2008): Global Financial Stability Report, April. 


Irving Fisher Committee (2007a): Proceedings of the IFC Conference on “Measuring the 
financial position of the household sector’, vol 1, IFC Bulletins no 25, March. 


(2007b): Proceedings of the IFC Conference on “Measuring the financial position 
of the household sector”, vol 2, IFC Bulletins no 26, July. 


Kaminsky, G, S Lizondo and C Reinhart (1998): “Leading indicators of currency crises”, IMF 
Staff Papers 45(1), pp 1-48. 


Kaminsky, GL and CM Reinhart (1999): “The twin crises: the causes of banking and balance- 
of-payments problems”, The American Economic Review, vol 89, no 3, pp 473-500, June. 


Nelson, W R, Perli, R (2005): “Selected indicators of financial stability’, 4th Joint Central 
Bank Research Conference on “Risk Measurement and Systemic Risk”, ECB Frankfurt am 
Main, November. 


Patel, S and A Sarkar (1998): “Crises in developed and emerging stock markets”, Financial 
Analysts Journal, vol 54—6, pp 50-9, November—December. 


Sveriges Riksbank (2008), Financial Stability Report, no 2008:1, June. 


Turner, P and M Goldstein (1996): “Banking crises in emerging economies: origins and policy 
options”, BIS Economic Papers, no 46, November. 


Van den End, JW (2006): “Indicator and boundaries of financial stability’, DNB Working 
Paper no 97, March. 


White, WR (2004): “Are changes in financial structure extending safety nets?”, BIS Working 
Papers, no 145, January. 


Worrell, D (2004): “Quantitative assessment of the financial Sector: an integrated approach’, 
International Monetary Fund Working Papers, no 153. 


380 IFC Bulletin No 31 


