ANALYSIS 


Analysis of Threats to the Financial Stability 
of the United States 


Cc)" risks to financial stability remain in the medium 


range. We reached this assessment by weighing the 
financial system's resilience against its vulnerabilities. Thanks 
to actions taken after the financial crisis, the system is far 
more resilient than it was when the crisis loomed a decade 
ago, but vulnerabilities have emerged, including in the last 
fiscal year. 
Although our overall assessment is moderate, market risks are high and 
rising from the potential for a sudden drop in the prices of assets in financial 
markets, particularly the stock markets and bond markets. Such a decline 


could exploit vulnerabilities from excessive leverage, when resources are 
too low in relation to investment exposures. 


The chapter highlights three key threats to the U.S. financial system: 
1. Vulnerabilities to Cybersecurity Incidents 


2. Obstacles to Resolving Failing Systemically Important Financial 
Institutions 


3. Structural Changes in Markets and Industry 


We also introduce new risk-assessment tools developed by the OFR — our 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Monitor and our Financial Stress Index — 
and discuss the insights we glean from them about financial stability. 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 5 


The new monitor 
and index can be 
found on the 
OFR website 


The new monitor and index, which are both on the OFR website, 
financialresearch.gov, are part of the OFR’s quantitative monitoring toolkit. They 
signal where potential vulnerabilities might require further investigation. We conduct 
those investigations using a wider set of data, qualitative information, and expert 
analysis. The OFR’s 2017 Financial Stability Report contains a more in-depth analysis 
of the threats and our overall assessment of financial stability. 


Financial Stability Threats 


Shocks that cause widespread losses or loan defaults can expose underlying vulnera- 
bilities and turn them into threats that can potentially disrupt the financial system with 
adverse consequences for the economy. 


We selected the key threats to U.S. financial stability based on their potential impact, 
probability of occurring, probability of happening soon, and the preparedness of 
industry and government to manage them. The key threats are: 


1. Vulnerabilities to Cybersecurity Incidents 


The financial system is vulnerable to cybersecurity incidents because of its inter- 
connectedness and heavy reliance on information technology. 


A large-scale cyberattack, accident, or other cybersecurity incident could disrupt 
the operations of one or more financial companies and markets and spread 
through financial networks and operational connections to the entire system, 
threatening financial stability and the broader economy. 


The financial system is an attractive target for cyber thieves and other hackers 
because financial companies manage the nation’s wealth and handle trillions of 
dollars in transactions every day that underlie the U.S. economy. 


The hack of consumer information at the consumer credit reporting firm Equifax, 
disclosed in September 2017, highlighted the vulnerability of some financial 
companies and the absence of regulatory guidance on how consumer credit 
reporting companies should manage cybersecurity risks. The attackers report- 
edly accessed personal information for 145 million Americans, including Social 
Security numbers and driver's license information. 


A cybersecurity incident could pose a financial stability risk if it caused a loss of 
confidence in financial institutions, if it damaged the integrity of consumer finan- 
cial data, or if the victimized company provided unique services that could not 
easily be replaced. 


In such a scenario, customers and other financial companies might sever their 
connections to a victimized company to avoid exposure and protect themselves 





6 


2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


from losses. They might also sever ties to similar companies for fear they are also 
vulnerable. Finally, they might limit their risks by pulling back from certain types 
of financial activities. 


Three factors increase vulnerabilities to cybersecurity incidents for any type of 
company and industry: 


1. The open structure of the Internet allows malicious actors to target compa- 
nies across the globe. 





Figure 1. Example of Financial System Network Mapping 







NOE BASE 
NOUMEMSER 






ne CREDIT 
oe DEFAULT 
—> Daas © SOMENMEER SWAP 







NN 


WSOUMAEMSER 





DEALER 


NOSEEASR 


SAESSR 
TRIPARTY 


ra Kemstnnd\Sonss)\ 

Sae 5 CHE RRAG eee 
: t+” SANS 

EES\ SEAR 


LASASA CNSMHSSVSTS\ 


DEALER 


OPERAS 


a ne NODE RLER 
LESsnky CORPORATE 


* BOND 


NS pss Qe NWSOYSERER 


DEALER 


Source: OFR analysis 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability Z 


Tabletop 
exercises 
are simulated 
cybersecurity 


incidents industry 


and regulators 
hold 


2. The availability of encrypted digital currencies or "cryptocurrencies" makes 
evading detection easier for criminals because they can move and hold 
funds under assumed names. 


3. Product liability laws do not generally apply to computer software, creating 
potential incentives to rush products to market and fix or "patch" problems 
later, including cybersecurity vulnerabilities. 


Financial companies can help protect themselves and the overall system by 
investing in strong defenses and increasing their ability to recover from cyberse- 
curity incidents. Regulators must work with the industry to ensure the resilience of 
the financial system, even if individual companies do not recognize that the bene- 
fits of protecting the overall system are worth their cost of increased resilience. 


In the insurance industry, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners 
adopted a model law in October for protecting insurance data from hackers. But 
for the model law to take effect, U.S. states would need to adopt it. 


In October 2016, federal banking regulators proposed rules to enhance risk 
management standards to combat cybersecurity threats. 


As the OFR researches cybersecurity risks, we analyze past breaches, evaluate 
the effectiveness of regulations and policies, and draw lessons from “tabletop 
exercises” — simulated cybersecurity incidents — industry and regulators hold. 


We are also applying network analysis and using detailed datasets to develop 
maps to learn how cybersecurity incidents can spread through the financial 
system (see Network Analysis to Identify Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities and 
Operational Risk). For example, such network analysis could focus on intercon- 
nections within markets and how shocks are transmitted — analysis that can be 
applied to shocks from cybersecurity incidents (see Figure 1 for a representa- 
tive multilayer view of work that could be done on three markets: credit default 
swaps, triparty repurchase agreements, and corporate bonds). 


Obstacles to Resolving Failing Systemically Important 
Financial Institutions 


Resolution is the process of restructuring or liquidating a failing financial company 
through bankruptcy or regulatory mechanism. The failure of a large, complex 
financial company could transmit distress to other firms and possibly trigger 


another financial crisis. 


After the financial crisis of 2007-09, regulators developed important tools for 
resolving failing U.S. bank holding companies that are systemically important, 
but orderly resolution still may be difficult in some scenarios. Tools to enable an 
orderly resolution process for nonbanks are still works in progress. 





8 


2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


There are two paths for the resolution of a failing systemically important finan- 
cial institution (SIFI) that is not an insured depository institution. The first path is 
bankruptcy. 


The second path, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, is the “orderly liquidation 
authority” when bankruptcy may not be the best alternative. On the recommen- 
dation of regulators and in consultation with the President, the Secretary of the 
Treasury could place the failing SIFI into receivership for the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to liquidate. The Act created this second path as 
a backstop to the bankruptcy process for the FDIC to address financial stability 
concerns and for better cross-border coordination among regulators. 


In some scenarios, the first and second paths have shortcomings for handling the 
failure of the largest and most complex bank holding companies, known as global 
systemically important banks (G-SIBs). For example, if more than one G-SIB was 
failing, the FDIC might not be able to use the orderly liquidation authority to 
restructure the banks and release them from oversight quickly enough to stabilize 
the U.S. financial system. 


Some proposals would strengthen bankruptcy provisions for financial compa- 
nies but also would eliminate orderly liquidation authority. However, obstacles to 
handling a G-SIB failure through the bankruptcy process may remain. For exam- 
ple, the bankruptcy trustee might not have near-immediate access to short-term 
liquidity needed to stabilize the failing company or the cooperation of interna- 
tional regulators. 


Finally, tools for successfully resolving systemically important nonbank finan- 
cial firms are still being developed, despite problems among such firms during 
the crisis, such as the collapse of Lehman Brothers and near-failure of insurer 
American International Group, and the increasing importance of nonbanks such 
as central counterparties (CCPs). 


Unlike G-SIBs, CCPs are not required to submit “living wills” to their primary 
federal regulators with plans for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of 
their material financial distress or failure. CCPs are required to develop recovery 
and orderly wind-down plans for extreme events that could threaten their viability 
and financial strength before insolvency is reached. But CCPs are not subject to 
sanctions if regulators deem their plans unsatisfactory. 


In 2016, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued guidance 
requiring more detailed wind-down planning. The Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) is requiring CCPs under its supervision to submit initial plans 
by the end of 2017. 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 9 


Figure 2. Market Share by Exchanges 
and Their Affiliates, 1996 and 2016 


3. Structural Changes in Markets and Industry 


Three aspects of market structure pose threats: (1) lack of substitutability, which is 
the ability to replace essential services if a provider fails or drops that line of busi- 
ness; (2) fragmentation of trading activities through multiple channels and prod- 
ucts; and (3) the danger of a difficult transition to a new reference rate to replace 
the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). 


A lack of substitutability is an aspect of market structure that can pose a threat. 
Some markets depend on one or a few financial institutions whose services may 
be difficult to replace under stress. For example, the increasing reliance on a 
single institution for settlement of Treasury securities and related repurchase 
agreements (repos) is a key vulnerability. An interruption in Treasury settlement 
services would disrupt the Treasury market and potentially a range of other 
markets. 


Fragmentation in markets can also pose threats. As electronic 
trading has escalated, the number of trading channels has 


(percent) 


1996 


INEKel-fe) IN TEN an (oY dc 


Exchange Stock 
| Exchange 





Chicago Board 
Options Exchange 


2016 


New York 
ie Stock 
exchange Exchange 





Source: Muzan Trade and Quote 





grown (see Figure 2). This growth can increase flexibility for risk 
managers who want to hedge by diversifying their risks and 

for corporate treasurers and portfolio managers to reallocate 
assets quickly under stress. But fragmentation also introduces 
risks by reducing liquidity because resources of market makers 
are stretched thinner across more exchanges and products. 


Some markets are also becoming more fragmented among 
products, raising concerns about the availability of liquidity 
also becoming more fragmented. 


Another potential threat comes from the transition from LIBOR 
to an alternative. The risks and costs of using LIBOR make the 
move essential, but failure to make a timely and smooth tran- 
sition could impair the functioning of markets that now rely on 
LIBOR. LIBOR reflects transactions in a shrinking market. Most 
of the responses by traders to the LIBOR survey are based on 
judgment rather than actual trades. LIBOR tracks unsecured 
transactions, which represent a small share of banks’ wholesale 
funding. 


The new U.S. benchmark rate, the Secured Overnight Financing 
Rate, will be produced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York in cooperation with the OFR. It will be based on trad- 

ing activity in repos backed by Treasury securities, not bank 
surveys (see LIBOR Alternative in next chapter). 





10 


2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


A vulnerability is 
a factor that can 
originate, amplify, 
or transmit 
disruptions in the 
financial system 


The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, made up of banks active in the 
derivatives market, informed the process and selected the Secured Overnight 
Financing Rate as its preferred LIBOR alternative. The new rate promises to be 
more reliable. 


Despite these improvements, the transition from LIBOR carries additional risks. 
Obtaining widespread market acceptance and reliance could take years. Officials 
and market participants must develop active derivatives markets that use the 
new rate. 


Financial Stability Assessment 


We base our overall assessment of U.S. financial stability in part on an evaluation of 
the six categories of risk in our new Financial System Vulnerabilities Monitor and on 


our research, analysis, and surveillance of the financial system. 


This new monitor improves on and replaces the OFR’s Financial Stability Monitor. 
When we introduced the prototype of the Financial Stability Monitor in 2013, we 
noted that we planned to update and fine tune it. We made improvements in 2014 
and 2015, then began a project in fiscal year (FY) 2017 to make fundamental changes. 


The previous version of the monitor combined signals of vulnerability and stress, 
which prevented an accurate assessment of risk. 


As its name indicates, the new Financial System Vulnerabilities Monitor gives early 
warning signals of potential vulnerabilities. A vulnerability is a factor that can origi- 
nate, amplify, or transmit disruptions in the financial system. 


When the Financial System Vulnerabilities Monitor shows high or rising vulnerabilities, 
it indicates a high or rising risk of disruptions in the future. Vulnerabilities typically 
lead to additional stress when shocks hit, such as when widespread losses or loan 
defaults strike the financial system. The additional stress can feed a downward cycle. 


A second new tool, the OFR Financial Stress Index, is a daily snapshot of current 
stress in global financial markets. Stress can be minor; for example, it can surface in 
a brief period of uncertainty and price volatility in the equity market. Or it can be 
major, like the stress precipitated by the runs on Lehman Brothers and other broker- 
dealers in 2008. 


The distinction between stress and vulnerabilities means that the two should be 
measured separately. Both of these complementary tools factor into our overall 
assessment that risks to U.S. financial stability remain in the medium range. 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 11 


Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Monitor 


The Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Monitor is a heat map of 58 indicators of 
potential vulnerabilities organized into 
six risk categories: (1) macroeconomic, 

(2) market, (3) credit, (4) solvency and 
leverage, (5) funding and liquidity, and (6) 
contagion. These categories reflect key 
types of risks that have contributed to 
financial instability in the past. 


The stress index and vulnerabilities moni- 
tor each have a category for credit, but 
the two tools are measuring different 
aspects of the financial system, so the 
same or similar categories or indicators 


are not contradictory. For example, high 
stock valuations generally indicate low 
stress now, but such high valuations can 
be a potential vulnerability for the future. 


The new monitor, which we will update 
quarterly, includes a category for 
solvency and leverage that was not in the 
earlier monitor. New underlying indica- 
tors provide additional information (see 
Figure 3). 


The colors of the heat map mark the 
position of each indicator in its long-term 
range. For example, red signals that a 
potential vulnerability is high relative to 
its past. Orange signals that it is elevated. 
Movement toward red indicates that a 
potential vulnerability is building. 





Figure 3. Financial System Vulnerabilities Annual Comparison, Second Quarters of 2016 and 2017 


Potential Vulnerability 


Q2 2016 edi Q2 2017 Vv } 


Low i i EE fich 





Macroeconomic Risk 


> Inflation risk 
» Fiscal risk 


>» External balance risk 








Market Risk » Valuations/risk premiums 
ned | iin > Financial risk-taking/risk appetite 
Credit Risk » Household credit risk 


» Nonfinancial business credit risk 


» Real economy borrowing levels and terms 





Solvency/Leverage Risk 


> Financial institution solvency 


» Financial institution leverage 





Funding/Liquidity Risk > Funding risk 


» Trading liquidity risk 
» Financial institution liquidity risk 





Contagion Risk 


» Cross-institution risk 
» Financial sector concentration risk 
» Cross-border contagion risk 





Note: Data available as of Oct. 4, 2017. The colors reported here and in past editions are subject to change because of newly 
reported data, data revisions, or changes in the historical range due to new observations. 

Sources: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Compustat, Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council call reports, Federal Reserve Form 
Y-9C, Haver Analytics, Morningstar, SNL Financial LC, the Volatility Laboratory of the NYU Stern Volatility Institute (https://vlab.stern. 


nyu.edu), OFR analysis 





12 2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


Macroeconomic risk 


Risk from inflation, 
government borrowing, and 
cross-border financing 


Q2. «2 
2016 2017 


Inflation risk 


U.S. core inflation 
U.S. consumer inflation expectations 


U.S. federal government budget balance/GDP 
U.S. federal government debt/GDP 


U.S. federal government interest/revenues 
al balance risk 
{9 US. current account balance/GDP 


HS BUS. cross-border financial liabilities/GDP 











Macroeconomic risks to U.S. financial 
stability are moderate. The U.S. economy 
continues to expand at a modest pace. 
The current U.S. economic expansion is 
the third longest since 1850. Inflation is 
low, and investors are not expecting 
major changes. 


U.S. government debt as a percent of 
gross domestic product (GDP) is at its 
highest level in decades. Very low inter- 
est rates are currently mitigating this 
vulnerability because they make debt 
more affordable. 


China’s elevated level of debt hampers 
additional borrowing and is high by 
world standards, although credit growth 
has slowed over the past year. Direct 
U.S. financial claims on China are small 
relative to the size of the U.S. financial 
system, but the Chinese government is 
a major holder of U.S. government debt. 
Indirect exposures through other Asian 
markets and through the global economy 
are more significant. 


Potential negative spillovers still exist 
from Brexit, the United Kingdom’s 
planned exit from the European Union. 
If the exit does not go smoothly, the 
disruptions would most affect U.S. finan- 
cial institutions with large direct financial 
exposures to the United Kingdom and 
potentially spread to other U.S. financial 


firms and markets. 


Market risk 


Risk to financial stability from 
movements in asset prices 


Q2. «2 
2016 2017 


Valuations/risk premiums 


DOB US. equity valuations 
aS U.S. Treasury term premium 
Ea 


U.S. corporate bond spread 

| | U.S. mortgage-backed security spread 
i ae U.S. house price/rent ratio 

— U.S. house price/income ratio 

| U.S. CRE capitalization spread 
Financial risk appetite 

U.S. bond investor duration 


ei 
— U.S. equity market volatility 





Market risks from a sharp change in the 
prices of assets in financial markets are 


high and rising. 


Rising prices and falling risk premi- 
ums may leave some markets vulnera- 
ble to big changes. Risk premiums are 
returns in excess of returns on risk-free 
investments. 


Such market corrections can trigger 
financial instability when the assets are 
held by entities that have excessive 
leverage and rely on short-term debt and 
other liabilities. 


Each of our annual reports has high- 
lighted the risk that low volatility in 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 13 


market prices and persistently low 
interest rates may promote excessive 
risk-taking by investors and create future 
vulnerabilities. In 2017, strong earnings 
growth, steady economic growth, and 
increased expectations for a U.S. fiscal 
policy that stimulates economic growth 
have fueled the rise in asset prices. 


Stock market valuations are at historic 
highs, according to several metrics. 


Prices are also elevated in bond markets, 
suppressing yields. Risk premiums for 
corporate bonds have nearly fallen to 
the lowest point since the financial crisis. 
At the same time, long-term interest 
rates in the United States remain low, 
despite a long span of steady economic 
growth, low unemployment, and gradual 
increases in benchmark interest rates by 
the Federal Reserve. 


The low rates have increased the risk of 
loss by bond investors if interest rates 
rise, but two factors mitigate the poten- 
tial systemic risk from rising rates. First, 
investors such as pension funds and 
insurance companies have long-term 
liabilities, including pension obligations 
and life insurance coverage that allow 
them to tolerate any short-term market 
losses on bonds. Second, the Federal 
Reserve has clearly stated its intention to 
raise interest rates gradually. 


Credit risk 


Risk of borrowers or 
counterparties not meeting 
financial obligations such as 
business loans and mortgages 


Q2. «2 
2016 2017 


Household credit risk 


HO BB U-S. consumer debt/income 
| U.S. consumer debt/GDP growth 
= U.S. consumer debt service ratio 
fe ie U.S. mortgage debt/income 
a aS U.S. mortgage debt/GDP growth 
en es U.S. mortgage debt service ratio 


Nonfinancial business credit risk 


MN EE Us. nonfinancial business debt/GDP 
| a U.S. nonfinancial business debt/GDP growth 


—— US. nonfinancial business debt/assets 


a) Ea) U.S. nonfinancial business debt/earnings 


iH U.S. nonfinancial business earnings/interest 
Real economy borrowing levels and terms 


HE Lending standards for nonfinancial business 
SS Lending standards for residential mortgages 


Some measures of credit risk have 
moderated since last year, reflecting 
crosscurrents of positive and negative 
developments. Credit risk from debt 
by nonfinancial corporations remains 
elevated. Nonfinancial corporate debt 
continues to grow, although at a slower 
pace than in 2016. Measures of firms’ 
debt-to-assets and debt-to-earnings 
ratios are red on the monitor heat map. 


In addition, the quality of covenants 
may be weakening. Covenants are terms 
in financial contracts meant to protect 
investors. For example, covenants may 
limit a borrower's total debt or restrict 
business activities. Weaker covenants 
historically accompany buildups of debt 
and may signal lower credit quality. 


However, the growing economy and 
rising profits are reducing the risk of 





2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


defaults. Many companies have rolled 
over their existing debt at lower inter- 
est rates and with longer repayment 
timetables. 


Household credit risks are rising, but 
appear to be concentrated in the 
nonmortgage segment of the market. 
Total household debt, including mort- 
gages, hit a record $12.8 trillion in the 
second quarter of 2017, surpassing 

its 2008 peak. Mortgage risks remain 
moderate after the drop in such debt 
after the financial crisis. 


Auto loans and student loans bear 
watching. They account for much of the 
recent growth in household debt (see 
Figure 4). Delinquencies of student loans 
have been high since 2012. Auto loan 
delinquencies have declined from their 
post-recession peak in 2011 but have 
been rising since 2015. 





Figure 4. U.S. Nonmortgage Household 
Debt ($ trillions) 


1.6 
Student 
loan 


Auto 
loan 


0.8 Credit 
card 


a0 i ee Other 


0.0 





2008 2012 2016 


Note: Data as of June 30, 2017. "Other" includes 
consumer finance and retail loans 


Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, OFR 
analysis 


Solvency and leverage risk 


Q2. = =Q2 
2016 2017 


Risk of reduced ability to 
repay debts or borrow funds 


Financial institution solvency 


NU S.. BHC risk-based capital (median) 
an eS U.S. BHC risk-based capital (aggregate) 
a U.S. commercial bank risk-based capital (median) 


i U.S. commercial bank risk-based capital (aggregate) 
Financial institution leverage 


HN ES. BHC leverage (median) 

(es) U.S. BHC leverage (aggregate) 
HN US. commercial bank leverage (median) 
et wae U.S. commercial bank leverage (aggregate) 
| ie U.S. life insurer leverage (median) 

a El U.S. non-life insurer leverage (median) 


The failure or near-failure of large finan- 
cial institutions has been a common 
source of stress during financial crises in 
the past, including the crisis of 2007-09. 
For this reason, the OFR’s new monitor 
includes measures of solvency and 
leverage risk. These measures signal low 
risk in banks. 


Large banks have more capital to serve 
as a cushion against losses than before 
the crisis. The eight U.S. G-SIBs have 
significant buffers of capital and liquid- 
ity above the minimum required, which 
bolsters their solvency. Bank profits are 
gradually starting to improve as inter- 
est rates rise but remain relatively low. 
Return on equity for U.S. G-SIBs has 
been stagnant at about 10 percent, 
compared with 12 percent to 17 percent 
before the crisis. 


Insurance company leverage is moder- 
ate. Since the crisis, insurers have used 
less leverage. Leverage is high when 
the company resources needed as a 
buffer against losses are low relative to 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 15 


investment exposure. Some life insur- 

ers make substantial use of derivtives; 
this indicator captures only the current 
market value of these exposures and may 
understate future risks. 


Leverage among nonbank broker-deal- 
ers, which are not reflected in the 
monitor, deserves monitoring. Most of 
the largest U.S. broker-dealers are affil- 
iated with banks. However, changes in 
bank regulation may fuel an increase in 
broker-dealers not affiliated with banks. 
The largest nonbank broker-dealers — 
each with more than $10 billion in assets 
— have substantially more leverage than 
their bank-affiliated peers. 


Funding and liquidity risk 


Risk that investors will lose 
confidence and pull their 
funding from a firm or market 
and market participants won't 
be able to sell securities 
without creating a downward 
price spiral. 

Q2 Q2 

2016 2017 
Funding risk 
HY) TED spread 
HN VS. financial commercial paper spread 
Trading liquidity risk 
HE BB Dealer positions in U.S. Treasuries 
HN BB (Dealer positions in U.S. agency-backed securities 
Sa U.S. Treasury bond turnover 
| U.S. equity turnover 
Financial institution liquidity risk 
HN BE U.S. commercial bank loans/deposits (median) 
iH U.S. commercial bank loans/deposits (aggregate) 
PB U.S. BHC wholesale funding (median) 
PY Us. BHC wholesale funding (aggregate) 
— Ci U.S. BHC net stable funding (median) 
BS. BHC net stable funding (aggregate) 


Market liquidity, the ability of a market 
participant to buy or sell an asset in a 
timely manner at relatively low cost, 
remains a concern. Market liquidity is 
vulnerable to the risk of asset fire sales — 
the risk that market participants will not 
be able to sell securities without creating 
a downward spiral in prices. 


Funding liquidity (the availability of credit 
to buy assets) is also subject to run risk 
— the risk that investors will lose confi- 
dence and pull their funding from a firm. 


In the past several years, U.S. G-SIBs 
have steadily increased their reliance on 
"runnable liabilities," liabilities that are 
vulnerable to runs. 


Indicators of market liquidity are mixed. 
Some indicators suggest that conditions 
are moderate, while others suggest lower 
risk. Two measures of market liquidity 
signaled extraordinary stress during the 
crisis but have since eased: 


1. Bid-ask spreads - the difference 
between the average price at which 
customers buy from dealers and the 
average price at which customers sell 
to dealers; and 


2. Price-impact measures — the 
price change after a large trade is 
completed. 





2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 


Contagion risk 


a2. 2 
2016 2017 


Cross-institution contagion risk 


Lae Asset fire-sale risk 


HON U-s. systemic capital shortfall estimate SRISK/GDP 
Financial sector concentration risk 


HEN US. banking industry concentration 
(ia | U.S. life insurance industry concentration 


(ee | U.S. mutual fund industry concentration 


Risk that stress at a financial 
institution or market spills 
over to others 


Contagion risk is the danger that stress 
at a financial institution or market spills 
over to others. OFR research suggests 
that the financial system remains highly 
interconnected. Of the many factors 
contributing to the financial crisis, 
contagion is one of the most difficult to 
measure (see The Contagion Index and 
Agent-based Models). 


The monitor includes measures of 
concentration in the financial system. 
Concentration makes the financial indus- 


Cross-border contagion risk 


HE US. cross-border financial assets/GDP 


BN Us. bank cross-border claims/total assets 


try more vulnerable to the spread of 
disruptions from distress at individual 


The Contagion Index and Agent-based Models 


In the search for new ways to measure conta- 
gion risk, OFR researchers have developed a 
contagion index to assess the potential spillovers 
to the broader financial system when a bank 
defaults. The contagion index has been declining 
in recent years for most G-SIBs (see Figure 5). 





Figure 5. Percent Change in Contagion Scores 
for FY 2016 


State Street 
Wells Fargo 
JPMorgan Chase 
Citigroup 
Morgan Stanley 


Bank of New York 
Mellon 


Goldman Sachs 


Bank of America 





Sources: Federal Reserve Form Y-15, OFR analysis 


The contagion index is not included in the moni- 
tor because it can only be calculated since 2013. 
The index combines measures of a bank's lever- 


age, size, and connectivity. 


Contagion Index = Financial Connectivity x Net 
Worth x (Outside Leverage - 1) 


Connectivity is measured as the portion of 
a bank’s liabilities held by other financial 
institutions. 


OFR researchers also continue to use agent- 
based models to analyze how risks can spread 
among firms during a crisis. Agent-based 
models simulate behaviors of different types of 
financial firms and the complexity of behavior 
among firms as they react to the actions of other 
firms. These models help us understand the way 
risks propagate across the financial system and 
the impacts of shocks and changes in regulatory 
policies. The OFR cosponsored a conference on 
the topic with the Bank of England and Brandeis 
University in September 2017. 








Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 


17 


firms. The monitor shows that these 
signals are mixed. Concentration in 

the U.S. mutual fund industry is high. 
Concentration in the U.S. banking indus- 
try is moderately elevated; the heights 
reached after the crisis have subsided. 
Concentration in the life insurance indus- 
try is low. 


The monitor also includes the SRISK 
measure. SRISK — short for systemic risk 
— reflects the capital a firm is expected 
to need to remain solvent during a 
crisis. SRISK and two other metrics offer 
insights on the contribution that indi- 
vidual firms make to systemic risk (see 
Figure 6). 


In addition, the monitor now contains an 
index of fire-sale risk, the chance that a 
self-reinforcing cycle will develop when 
liquidations of bank assets push down 
prices in a falling market. This risk has 
also been low in recent years. 





Figure 6. Systemic Risk Measures of Joint Distress for the Six 
Largest U.S. Bank Holding Companies (z-scores) 






6 
4 
2 
Conditional 
0 Vala Value-at-Risk 
\ey or . 
f Distress insurance 
premium 
-2 Systemic risk 


2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 


Note: Equal-weighted average. The six largest bank holding companies 

are Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan 
Stanley, and Wells Fargo. Z-score represents the distance from the average, 
expressed in standard deviations. 

Sources: Bloomberg Finance L.P., the Volatility Laboratory of the NYU Stern 
Volatility Institute, OFR analysis 


Financial Stress Index 


The Financial Stress Index is a daily 
market-based snapshot of stress in 
global financial markets. It is constructed 
from 33 financial market indicators. The 
indicators are organized into five cate- 
gories: (1) credit, (2) equity valuation, (3) 
funding, (4) safe assets, and (5) volatility. 


The index is positive when stress levels 
are above average and negative when 
stress levels are below average. 


The index shows that overall stress is 
near its lowest level since the financial 
crisis, primarily because of low volatility. 
However, this low volatility may be lead- 
ing investors to take big risks, making the 
financial system more fragile and vulner- 
able to shocks. 


The OFR index can be broken down so 
users can view each of the five categories 
separately or in combination. It also can 
be broken down by the region generat- 
ing the stress. 


Analysis of the categories can reveal 
the drivers of financial stress, guiding 
the interpretation of market events by 
cutting through the clutter of market 
chatter. For example, if we examine the 
index during the 2013 “Taper Tantrum” 
event, we find that the index shows 
increased levels of stress in the credit 
and volatility categories (see Figure 7). 


The methodology for the index uses a 
dynamic process to account for changing 
relationships among the variables in the 
index. No two stress events are exactly 
the same, and the relative importance of 


drivers of financial stress varies over time. 





18 2017 | OFR Annual Report to Congress 





Figure 7. OFR Financial Stress Index - 2013 Taper Tantrum Period 








. : ™ Credit ® volatility — FSI 
Financial stress 
refers toa = 
breakdown 
in the normal : ae 
functioning of Monday, Jun 24, 2013 
‘ : Volatility: 0.400 5 
financial markets » Credit: 0.083 
May 22, 2013 e FSI: -0.446 [Chart 
Federal Reserve announced — 
it would begin tapering 7 





15. Apr 29. Apr 13. May 3. Jun 


-10 


17. Jun 8. Jul 22. Jul 5. Aug 


Sources: Bloomberg Financial L.P., Haver Analytics, OFR analysis 


= OFFICE OF FINANCIALRESEARCH gow 
= FINANCIAL — al 
s RESEARCH 

ns 


OFR Financial Stress Index 


‘The OFR Financial Stress Index (OFR FSI) is  dady market based snapshot of stress in globsl financial markets. tis constructed from 33 financial markot variables, such as 
eld spreads, valuation messures, and interest rates. The OFR FS! is positive when stress levels aro above average, and negative when stress levels are below average. 








News Events = Inside theOFR» Publications « Subscribes Follow w 


The OFR FSI incorporates five categories of indicators: eds sauity valvation, funding, safe aszats and yolatilty, The FS! shows stvexs contributions by three regions: United 
States, other advanced economies, and gm: 





SERLYM Mon. Oct. 30, 2017 (not seasonally adjusted) 





Indicator Categories | Regions 


Select categories: Mi Credit ME Equity valuation Mi Funding ME Safe assets Mi Volatility — FSI 


Select time range: week month months year at 


How to Interpret the Index 

‘The OFR FSI measures systemic financial sess ~ d in the normal functioning of financial markets. Each vanable in the index measures a feature of finanoat stress. 
Financial sess can be captured by how the variables move together through time. A statistical algorithm captures this co-movorent and produces a set of weights for the 
varisbles. 


‘The value of the OFR FSI on a given day is the woighted average lovel of each variable observed in the market on that day, relative to its history. The indox is 20ro when this 
average is 20r0, suggesting that stress is at normal levels. The index is calculated ater each US. trading day. 


Monitoring financial stabilty requires tracking both vulnerabilities and stress. The OFR has developed the Financia! System Vulnerabilities Monitor to identity potential 
~ underying 


financial system vulnerabiises 
Indicator Categories 
Credit: Contains measures of credit spreads, which represent the alerence in borrowing costs for firms of diferent creditworthiness. In times of stress, credit spreads may. 


widien when default isk increases or crac market functioning is ditrupted, Wider spreads may indicate that investors are less wiling to hold debt increasing costs for 
borrowers t0 get funding 


weaknesses in the system that can originate, amply. or transmit stress. 


Equity valuation: Contains stock valussons from several stock market indexes, which reflec investor confidence and risk appette. In tmes of stress, stock values may fall ¢ 
investors become lees willing to hold ntky assets 


Funding: Contsins measures related to how easily finanoslinsttvtons can funs thew activites. In umes of stress, funding markets can freeze df paricipants percewe grester 
countornam ered rick or boil ink 





OFR Financial Stress Index can be found at 
www.financialresearch.gov/financial-stress-index/ 


The OFR’s innovative methodology 
is dynamic but remains accessible to 
policymakers. 


The daily frequency of the OFR's index 
improves upon the weekly or monthly 
frequency of other indexes. 


Financial stress refers to a breakdown 

in the normal functioning of financial 
markets. High levels of financial stress 
can precede declines in economic activ- 
ity. These episodes can be severe. For 
example, the OFR index shows stress 
peaking during the financial crisis. 
Policymakers need accurate, clear, and 
timely signals of market stress to effec- 
tively manage the effects. 





Analysis of Threats to Financial Stability 19 


