MARSH & MCLENNAN ‘ 
COMPANIES Global Risk Center 


RESILIENCE AMID DISORDER 


STEERING A PATH THROUGH SOCIAL AND 
POLITICAL UNREST 


Ji fay {UL je 


Fi inn 7 Te : 
i 


AUTHOR e FRAMING THE CHALLENGE 





Richard Smith-Bingham 
e AYEAR OF DOMESTIC TURBULENCE 


° DEEP-SEATED MALAISE 
° COMPANY IMPERATIVES 
e LEADING FORTHE LONG TERM 


@9 MARSH @9 GUY CARPENTER @9 MERCER @9 OLIVER WYMAN 


TEN TAKEAWAYS 


re: 


Civil disturbances, domestic political crises, and extremist violence have dominated media 
headlines across the world for much of 2016, spawning new strategic uncertainties and 
operational risks for companies. 


Social media have amplified instability by fanning populism, promoting radicalism, and 
enabling the mobilization of large numbers of people on short notice. 


In advanced economies, many of the protests, strikes, gains by populist parties, and political 
leadership crises stem from a deep frustration with a political establishment that has failed to 
address persistent economic insecurity at the household level. 


In emerging market countries, anger has been additionally fueled by endemic corruption 
and electoral malpractice, set against a backdrop of religious and ethnic conflict, entrenched 
insurgencies, and the need for complex economic transitions to achieve long-term 

national prosperity. 


In all parts of the world, inequality may be exacerbated by intractable challenges such as 
demographic shifts, climate change, and workforce automation, which will increase the 
vulnerability of lower-income groups. 


Stronger intelligence on key risk trends and the generation of plausible scenarios, both in 
specific markets and at a macro level, is a critical starting point for companies in identifying 
potential flashpoints, assessing resilience across the value chain, and being prepared for 
unexpected crises. 


In particular, firms should carefully consider their exposure to far-reaching national 
economic protectionism and the increased vulnerability of countries with weak fiscal 
positions, fragile governance arrangements, and an inherent intolerance of popular dissent. 


Investment risk can be alleviated by better aligning corporate strategic ambitions with 
political agenda, back-loading investment where possible, and making creative use of risk 
transfer facilities. 


Aspotlight on reputation risk and corporate social responsibility will help insulate firms against 
the greater political and public scrutiny that may result in targeted campaigns and instinctive 
backlashes — against responsible as well as less ethical operators. 


Fresh thinking on the company’s values, its social contract with personnel, and performance 
management framework will help mitigate operational and talent risks arising from 
mismatched role expectations and career insecurity concerns. 








Democratic politics are in a state of shock. At the same time, many of the world’s more 
illiberal regimes are on high alert. Political leaders believed they had helped their economies 
weather the great recession and that their citizens had accepted the need to swallow the 
bitter pill of austerity, with the promise of better times to come. But in many countries, 
people have simply had enough, and their demands are beginning to reshape both the 
political and the economic landscape. A new political logic is in motion, and companies need 
to think hard about the volatility, surprises, and structural shifts that may confront them. 


The standout global political crisis of 2014 was Russia’s 
incursion into Ukraine. In 2015 came the surge of refugees 
from conflicts in the Middle East and further afield. And 
this year, outpourings of domestic popular indignation 
have defined the political landscape of many countries. 
Over the three years, incidents have shifted from external 
premier-led cross-border challenges to internal social 
unrest; economic reaction has evolved from imposing 
sanctions toward enacting protectionism. Societal 
volatility forms a common thread, with echoes of the Arab 
Spring and earlier revolutions: The Ukraine crisis started 
with the populace toppling President Viktor Yanukovych 
and the Syrian crisis with an uprising against President 
Bashar al-Assad. 


This report is part of a Marsh & McLennan Companies 
series on how firms should broaden their perspectives on 
emerging risks, especially those that lurk at the periphery 
of corporate risk radars, either because they don’t fit into 
traditional risk categories or because their materiality is 
hard to demonstrate. It explores what can be understood 
from the social and political instability of 2016, as seen in 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


advanced and emerging economies alike (see Exhibit 1). 
Our contention is that these events, and the potential 
fallout from them, give rise to significant strategic, as well 
as operational, considerations. As a result, companies 
should review how the underlying sentiment might 

cut across the business environment to amplify key 
uncertainties, sharpen consequential risks, and introduce 
new challenges. 


Our reflections suggest four overarching messages. First, 
ignore public sentiment at your peril, as the discontent we 
are witnessing is widespread and deep-seated, and may 
materialize in different guises. Second, expect political 
surprises, because heightened sensitivity to popular 
demands may lead to policy vacillation, inconsistency, 
and even reversals. Third, anticipate market constraints, 
as a growing policy focus on domestic concerns and local 
industries could encumber multinational operations. 
And fourth, re-energize efforts to enhance corporate 
reputation, as greater scrutiny raises the prospect of 
aconcerted backlash by policymakers and the public 
against current company practices. 


This report starts by exploring the connections between 
the key disturbances of 2016, before offering perspectives 
on how this year’s events might shape the future risk 
environment. The following section identifies the main 
economic and political drivers that have shaped societal 
unrest, and then evaluates the key amplifiers of future 
volatility that might signal a paradigm shift rather than 


Exhibit 1: Political and social instability in 2016 to date 


simply a passing phase of turbulence. The final main section 
considers the implications of pronounced social and political 
instability for companies - their changing exposures and the 
types of action that will enable them to strengthen resilience 
and capture opportunities that may arise. A short conclusion 
presents some thoughts on how leaders can better attune 
their companies to emerging risks and uncertainties. 


REGION 


INCIDENTS (SELECTED) 





E 


! 


US: Heightened racial and police tensions, lone-wolf terror attacks, incendiary campaigns for presidential primaries and run-off 
Venezuela: Chronic food and energy shortages, soaring inflation, widespread unrest, institution of emergency powers 


Brazil: Senior politicians engulfed by Petrobras scandal, mass anti-regime and anti-corruption protests, 
President Rousseff impeached 


Chile: Violent student demonstrations, mass protests against ailing state pension system 


Argentina: Former President implicated in corruption scandals, prolonged anti-austerity protests 





UK: Historic referendum vote to exit EU, resignation of Prime Minister, spike in hate crime and abuse, resurgence of 
Scottish nationalism hopes 


Germany: Turkish-refugee tension, lone-wolf terror attacks, regional election gains by anti-refugee party 
Belgium: Brussels bombings, high ethnic tensions, violent anti-austerity protests, mass strikes 
France: Multiple demonstrations and worker strikes, lone-wolf terror attacks, high religious and ethnic tension (burkini ban) 


Spain: Prolonged political gridlock, separatist determination with significant public support (Catalunya) 








China: Ongoing protests and Uighur terrorist attacks, Hong Kong seats won by anti-Beijing activists 


India: Rise in Kashmir violence after the killing of a separatist icon, strike by ~150 million against 
Prime Minister Modi’s ‘anti-labor’ policies 


Thailand: Army-endorsed constitution following tightly controlled referendum, coordinated bomb attacks on tourist resorts 
Philippines: Violent anti-drugs campaign of new populist President, ‘state of lawlessness’ declared following Davao bomb attack 


The ‘-stans’: Land protests and suppression in Kazakhstan, bombing of Chinese embassy in Bishkek, uncertainty following 
the death of the Uzbek President after 27-year rule 





Turkey: Multiple terrorist attacks, attempted military coup, institution of emergency powers, crackdown against the Kurds, 
incursion into Syria 


Tunisia: Repeated extensions of nationwide state of emergency, violent unemployment protests, multiple terrorist attacks 
Saudi Arabia: Protests and strikes over layoffs and the non-payment of wages, suicide bombings at holy sites and US consulate 
Syria: Prolonged conflict and refugee crisis due to the competing interests of regional and global powers 


Libya: Ongoing civil war, ailing internationally-backed government, oil terminals captured by opposition forces, coup attempt 





Nigeria: Renewed Niger Delta Avenger militancy in the oil-rich South, Boko Haram insurgency in North East, famine concerns 
Gabon: Disputed re-election of President Bongo, violent demonstrations (1000+ arrests), parliament building set on fire 
Burundi: Prolonged political violence and civil unrest arising from debate around constitutionality of President’s third term 
Ethiopia: Protests and anti-government violence, destruction of foreign company property 


South Africa: President Zuma corruption charges reinstated, violent protests and nationwide strikes, African National Congress 
election losses 





Source: Press, analyst reports, MMC analysis 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


: 


i 


4 a tl 


is 


~ 
2 


| 


1 


| 


J oee! Sae comet [Pas neti es oe 
} 





ee) 


EAR OF DOMESTIC. 
\ 


Across the globe, people are sending a very clear message to political leaders. They are 
hurting, frustrated, and angry. They feel let down and they want change. Now. And they 
are prepared to take action. Governments have been thrown into disarray and distracted 
from the normal business of policymaking and regulation, almost to the point of paralysis. 





Dp} .D 
AW PD 


THE UNHEARD HAVE 
BECOME VOCIFEROUS 


At the ballot box in advanced economies, voters have 
rejected the political establishment and the status quo — in 
the UK referendum on the European Union, in the Austrian 
presidential election, and in the mayoral contest in Rome, 
among others. (At the time of writing, the US presidential 
election is still being contested.) Citizens have also taken 
to the streets in large numbers. In France, strikers have 
disrupted fuel supplies, and there have been nightly 
demonstrations in major cities against proposals for labor 
market reforms. In Germany, policies to accommodate 
the large influx of refugees have been a lightning rod 

for broader vexation. In the US, political posturing and 
policing tactics have aggravated racial tension, which has 
spilled over into bitter complaints and even bloodshed. 


Beyond advanced economies, the story is not dissimilar. 
There have been riots in Venezuela over the state of 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


the economy and shortages of food and electricity; 
violence in Tunisia over an unemployment level that is 
higher now than at the time of the revolution; and outrage 
in Brazil over the mismanagement of the economy and 
the corruption scandals engulfing the political elite. 
Protests have flared in Kazakhstan and Ethiopia over land 
reform proposals, with foreign company assets being 
destroyed by frustrated citizens in the latter. Saudi Arabia 
has experienced demonstrations and strikes, following 
worker layoffs and unpaid wages, while Zimbabwe has 
experienced a concerted shutdown of economic activity, 
with even the veteran movement criticizing President 
Robert Mugabe’s leadership. Voters in South Africa are 
turning against the African National Congress party; the 
Colombian people have rejected the government’s peace 
deal with the Farc guerillas; and the disputed re-election 
of President Ali Bongo has sparked deadly riots in Gabon. 


Rejection of the status quo is not just a matter of placards. 
The rise in cyber attacks for financial gain may be 
uppermost in the minds of company leaders, but the leak 
of the Panama papers and a campaign against global 
banks by Anonymous highlight the turmoil that can be 
caused by cyber-literate socio-political activists, even 
before one considers the possible role of foreign states. 
Against a backdrop of rising immigration, xenophobia 
and ethnic conflict appear to have escalated. Moreover, a 
deepening political and religious radicalism has expanded 
the scope of terrorist attacks from the Middle East and 
North Africa to Europe, North America, and beyond, with 
Paris, Brussels, Nice, Istanbul, Dhaka, Jakarta, Orlando, 
and New York numbering among incident locations. 
Indeed, many countries across the world 


are anticipating the steady return of disgruntled Islamic 
extremists from conflicts in Syria and Iraq. 


Several deep-rooted aspirations have surfaced in the 
recent unrest: “change”, “freedom”, “control”, and, 

as epitomized in the Brexit debate, “sovereignty”. 
Marginalized individuals, communities, regions, and 
even countries are attempting to assert themselves in 
the face of allegedly self-serving and unaccountable 
elites. Demanding to be recognized and valued, they are 
finding solidarity in anti-establishment causes that often 
align the resolution of personal grievances with a greater 
goal, such as the restoration of national greatness or a 
cross-border caliphate. 


* 
“Marginalized HarelhUceler-lpmeceyealaalelaliatssy 
regions, and even countriesare attempting 
to assert themselvesin the face of allegedly 
self-serving and unaccountable elites.” 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 





THE POLITICAL ESTABLISHMENT 
ISIN TURMOIL 


This dissent has profoundly challenged the legitimacy of 
ruling (and other centrist) political parties. Government policy 
coherence and even international solidarity have at times 
crumbled under the need to shore up public acceptance. 
Internal party fault lines have become more exposed, with 
competing visions for the future most prominent in the US 
and the UK. Satisfaction with political leaders has declined, 
and there is evidence of a desire to punish them, even 
outside the electoral cycle (see Exhibit 2). President Francois 
Hollande of France has endured approval ratings of as low 
as 12 percent; Prime Minister David Cameron resigned after 
failing to convince the UK electorate to remain in the EU; 
and the fate of Italy’s President Matteo Renzi hangs ona 
constitutional referendum in December. Regional election 
results suggest that a catalog of challenges in Germany has 
begun to sap support for Chancellor Angela Merkel. 


Corruption exposures and allegations have depressed 
the trust of emerging market citizens in their leaders. 
Rather than coming across as governance improvements 
and a form of catharsis, some initiatives have simply 
reminded populations of the venality of their elites, 


amplified instability, and taken on the characteristics of a 
purge. In South Africa, nearly 800 corruption charges 
against President Jacob Zuma may be reopened, 

while the entrenched pervasiveness of the activity 

in Nigeria forms a major drag on an ailing economy. 
Prime Minister Abdul Razak’s personal bank accounts 
are the subject of a major probe in Malaysia, while in 
China multiple long-running corruption investigations 
netted nearly 300,000 people in 2015, according to the 
government. In Latin America, President Enrique Pefa 
Nieto of Mexico has apologized for his family’s property 
dealings; President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil struggled to 
distance herself from the Petrobras “car wash” scandal 
and was successfully impeached for manipulating the 
government’s accounts; while former President Cristina 
Kirchner of Argentina has been accused of state fraud. 


Alternative political structures have arisen to better 
represent the aspirations of the people. The soaring 
success of nationalist fringe parties (in Europe, especially) 
over the past decade is testament to a hunger for platforms 


Exhibit 2: Domestic approval ratings of selected political leaders 


APPROVAL RATING (MID-2014 VS. MID-2016) 
% APPROVAL RATING 





100 
> 
> 
o 9S 
: | 
* R $s 
. > 
> > 
> mid-2014 
° mid-2016 
s % € 2@ § © €$ € 8B &§ 8 2 €& # 
S a co) Y oa © <x a =] 5 
= 3 Ms z & ~ 2 Q se) = a oO 
re) 3 o & S fo} S 3 
x a 7 Oo wi 
a 


Source: National opinion surveys, MMC analysis 
1: Duterte took office in June 2016. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


that seek greater accountability from governments and 
directly promote working-class interests (see Exhibit 3). 

In Denmark, Austria, and Hungary, far-right parties 
received over 20 percent of the vote in the most recent 
elections; in Greece, left-wing Syriza formed a government 
with 36 percent. A poll in the summer put Italy’s less- 
easily-categorized Five Star Movement on 32 per cent, 
ahead of Prime Minister Renzi’s Democratic party. Led 

by demagogues uncontaminated by experience of 
government (and sometimes mainstream politics entirely), 
these growing parties often differ more in their approach 
than in their populist goals: Right-wing movements seek to 
address the threats from uncontrolled immigration, while 
left-wing movements target the influence of multinational 
corporations and crony capitalism. They are influencing 
government agenda and political debate, even if they are 
not yet winning major elections. At times, they are making 
the process of government formation more difficult: Spain 
has been in political gridlock for more than nine months. 


Broad conviction politics are overwhelming detailed 
arguments grounded in economic theory. As the Brexit and 
US presidential primary campaigns showed, voters are less 


Exhibit 3: Support for far-right populist parties in Europe 


VOTE SHARE (PREVIOUS VS. MOST RECENT ELECTION) 


appreciative of defensible facts and practicable policies 
than clear ideals and simple messages that appeal directly 
to core hopes and fears. This anti-intellectualism has 
encouraged inflammatory rhetoric and vitriolic personal 
attacks in political debates and inhibited efforts to achieve 
national unity by making candidates highly divisive, raising 
the possibility in some countries of post-election disorder 
and further social polarization. 


It is no surprise that the changing tone of political discussion 
has resulted in somewhat contradictory outcomes in less 
liberal states. On the one hand, the appeal of strong rulers has 
risen — consider President Putin’s approval ratings in Russia, 
President Erdogan’s ability to consolidate power in Turkey 
even before the attempted coup, and President Duterte’s 
populist success in the Philippines. On the other hand, 

the declining rule of law, the gradual curtailment of press 
freedoms, and other measures to constrain civil society in 
these and other countries (such as China, Thailand, Angola, 
and Egypt) are striking. Their governments have become 
increasingly insecure about the acquiescence of their own 
people, the strength of insurgent forces, and the broader 
geopolitical environment in which they find themselves. 








% OF TOTAL VOTES 
40 
> 
> 
20 © 4 ° 
Mid-2016 polling 
> data 
> | 
> Most recent 
election 
E J or 
0 = 2 Previous election 
> 5 ‘y 2 = S 4 £ = 
oO a fat oO 
s < 5 E o & 3 = 
E = & é a = 2 
oO 


Source: ParlGov, MMC analysis 


Note: Data is taken from the following elections: Germany, 2009, 2013; UK, 2010, 2015, France, 2007, 2012; Poland, 2011, 2015; Denmark, 2011, 2015; Sweden, 2010, 2014; 


Serbia, 2014, 2016; Austria, 2008, 2013; Hungary, 2010, 2014 
1: The party did not exist at the time of the earlier election, 


2: The mid-2016 data point reflects the popularity of Marine Le Pen in the Presidential election, owing to a lack of available data on the party. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


A PARADIGM SHIFT IN POLITICAL AND 
ECONOMIC RELATIONS MAY ENSUE 


National economic and societal concerns have 
encouraged a more protectionist mindset and the world 
may now see a protracted period of deglobalization. 
World trade growth has plateaued since January 2015 
(see Exhibit 4), with more recent data on container 
shipments through ports suggesting a noticeable 
decline.’ At the same time, risks to the World Trade 
Organization’s modest trade growth forecast for 2016 
are stacked heavily on the downside. Trade liberalization 
has stalled since the financial crisis, and over the past 
year, G20 economies have introduced discriminatory 
measures at the fastest pace since the 2008 financial 
crisis, even if many of these are traditional “trade 
defense” mechanisms (see Exhibit 5). 


The recent surge in anti-trade political rhetoric 
suggests the trend may be accelerating. Some Eastern 
European countries (namely Hungary and Poland) 
have declared intentions to reduce their dependency 


Exhibit 4: Merchandise world trade 


TRADE INDICES 


FIXED BASE 2005=100' 
150 


100 


50 


on foreign capital and companies, a cornerstone of 
their economic success over the past decade. The UK’s 
impending departure from the EU may embolden the 
protectionist instincts of the larger, southern European 
states. Signature trade negotiations, the Trans-Pacific 
Partnership and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment 
Partnership, are under threat: the two deals face bi- 
partisan skepticism in the US, and opposition to the 
latter proposal is hardening in Europe too, where the 
long-negotiated agreement with Canada has seen 
further setbacks. In China, Western businesses are 
reporting increased government hostility, and it appears 
that plans to reform state-owned firms and open up 
competition have been put on hold. The stimulation of 
domestic enterprise and strategic investment under the 
One Belt, One Road initiative (and into Europe and the 
US) are top priorities for the government, as trade with 
neighboring countries and those further afield shows 
evidence of decline. 


a 
Trade Volume Index 


a) 
Trade Value Index 





2000 2005 


Source: World Trade Monitor prepared by the Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy 


Analysis, MMC analysis 


1: Indices are seasonally-adjusted. 


1 RWI/ISL Container Throughput Index, June 2016 


2010 2015 


2 European Chamber of Commerce in China, ‘Business Confidence Survey’, 2016 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Exhibit 5: Protectionism in G20 countries 


G20 TRADE POLICY MEASURES 


MEASURES IMPLEMENTED FOR EACH REPORTING YEAR' 
400 


M85 Discriminatory 
(9) Liberalizing 


300 


200 


dull 


2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 





Source: Global Trade Alert (GTA), 20th Report, MMC analysis 


G20 DISCRIMINATORY TRADE POLICY MEASURES 
MEASURES IMPLEMENTED SINCE NOVEMBER 2008 


US 
India 


Russia 
Argentina 
Brazil 
Germany 
UK 

Italy 

France 
Indonesia 
China 
Japan 
Saudi Arabia 
Turkey 
Australia 
Canada 
South Africa 
Mexico 
South Korea 





TTT] 


500 1,000 1,500 


1: The GTA reporting period is until 19 August, to align with the publication date of the annual report 


Domestic political pressures may reverberate 
internationally in other ways. The political refrain of 
restoring national greatness can be heard in many large 
countries — for example, the US, China, Japan, Russia, 
and Turkey. An appeal to national pride by vulnerable 
elites seeking to restore public faith in their leadership 
may result in unfortunate missteps on the international 
stage that have telling regional consequences. 
Moreover, a US more absorbed by domestic challenges, 
encouraging the on-shoring of economic activity and 
further narrowing its foreign policy ambitions to issues 
that directly affect American interests, would alter 
effective power relations on the international stage with 
significant ramifications for global security platforms 
and regional governance initiatives. 


Sovereignty aspirations may encourage political 
fragmentation. The Brexit result has given fresh hope to 


separatist forces in Europe. In Spain, the Catalan 
government has strengthened its determination to 
pursue independent statehood despite continued 
opposition from Madrid; Scotland’s policymakers 

may use the people’s clear preference to remain in the 
EU to initiate a second independence referendum. 
Denmark, France, and Italy may in time feel the need 
for EU referendums of their own. Even in the absence of 
a domino effect from Brexit, other member states may 
seek to renegotiate their relationship with Brussels, 
risking a gradual emasculation of the EU project. Much 
hinges on how the UK fares, presenting a quandary 

for European politicians. A strong UK (trade with 

which would help their own struggling economies) 
would energize breakaway campaigns; conversely, a 
weakened UK would dampen appetite, as indicated in 
popular polls across Europe in the immediate aftermath 
of the UK vote. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


The threat of social unrest may compound the 
vulnerability of emerging and developing market 
countries. The ability of large commodity producer 
countries to diversify and grow their economies 

more sustainably has been weakened not only by 

the constraints imposed by low government receipts 
and rising debt, but also by the possibility of trouble 
from populations currently facing tax hikes, lower 
economic prospects, and, in some cases, significant 
terrorist activity (see Exhibit 6). Failures to make these 
changes may have commercial and security spillover 
implications for even more vulnerable countries in Africa 
and the Middle East. 


Some illiberal states may endure disorderly power 
transitions, notwithstanding recent initiatives to 
consolidate political control. Growing questions worldwide 
about government legitimacy may come to a head in 
certain regimes, should elderly leaders seek to pass on the 
reins of government to others in the ruling elite without 
careful planning and sincerely engaging the populace 
(see Exhibit 7). The smooth handover of power arguably 
requires a different order of acceptance to the repeated, 
opaque reelection of the same ruler. The prospect of 
insurgencies encountering fierce pushback from the state 
apparatus raises the prospect of an increase in the number 
of fragile and even failed states in the coming years. 


Exhibit 6: GDP growth rate and government budget impacts in selected oil-exporting countries 


GDP GROWTH RATE, 2010 VS. 2016E 
PERCENT, CONSTANT PRICES (COUNTRIES ORDERED BY DIFFERENTIAL) 





20 
10 
= 
0 2010 
= 
“10 2016e 
# io” Ww £ < ° © © c © @ = £ - 
2 £— 5 8 = 3 8 &@€ 8 &@ 2 8 EE 8 & 
B £ e 
2016 GOVERNMENT BUDGET VS. 2013 EXPENDITURE 
PERCENT CHANGE, REAL TERMS 
20 
0 
- i = s Eo = Oo = i 
-20 
-40 
-60 
-80 


Kuwait 

Iraq 

UAE 

Algeria 

lran 

Mexico 
Angola 
Saudi Arabia 


Russia 
Kazakhstan 
Libya 
Venezuela 
Brazil 
Nigeria 
Qatar 


Source: IMF World Economic Outlook October 2016, IMF, Banxico, CBR, Fitch, S&P, Reuters, Bloomberg, Venezuela Analysis, CNBC, SWF Institute, MMC analysis 


1: Angola’s 2016e GDP growth rate is 0%. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Exhibit 7: Illiberal states and aging leaders 





a f 


Authoritarian regime! Premier over age of 707 


Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit, Democracy Index 2015, MMC analysis 


1:The EIU Democracy Index is based on five categories: electoral process and pluralism; civil liberties; functioning of government; political participation; and political 
culture. Based on scores on a range of indicators within each category, countries are categorized as: “full democracies”; “flawed democracies”; “hybrid regimes”; or 
“authoritarian regimes”. 


2: Correct as of October 2016. 
3: Red icon represents former Uzbek President Islam Karimov, who died on 29th August 2016 after a 27-year rule. 


12 Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 





The volatility witnessed in 2016 is rooted in trends and phenomena that have been 
building up for more than a decade. There are compelling reasons to believe that this is 
not just a transient phase but reflective of deeper structural shifts that cannot be ignored. 


A TIPPING POINT HAS BEEN REACHED 


Since the financial crisis, many citizens in advanced 
economies have endured a torrid time (see Exhibit 8), 


years, with youth unemployment at times more than 
double that figure. In some countries, recent immigrants, 


facing protracted threats to employment, family incomes, although vital for long-term national economic growth, 


and the security of their assets. Joblessness in parts of 
Southern Europe has exceeded 20 percent for several 


POVERTY RATE! 
POVERTY LINE 50% 


France 


Germany 


United 
Kingdom 


Canada 
Italy 


Japan 


United 
States 





Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


0.2 


have been blamed for taking jobs, lowering wages, and 
reducing the bargaining power of natives. However, for 


INCOME INEQUALITY? 
GINI COEFFICIENT 





France 
Germany 
United 
Kingdom 
Canada 
Italy 

2001 or 

Japan earliest 
United 

states 2013 or 

0.2 0.3 0.4 latest 


many semi-skilled workers, such privations arguably 
began several decades earlier when economic shifts 
and the opportunities of globalization left many 
industrial towns behind as they were unable to compete 
with cheap labor in East Asia and elsewhere. Indeed, 

in advanced economies, wages have been falling as a 
percentage of GDP for the last 40 years. 


Perilous economic circumstances have intensified 
the spotlight on the shortcomings of the political 
establishment. Popular resentment remains high 
about poor supervision of financial sector risks in 
good times and elevated government borrowing to 
support imprudent expenditure plans. More recently, 
in bad times, so-called technocratic regimes have 
failed to engage with popular concerns. In prizing 
the restoration of fiscal stability over investment and 
labor market considerations, cuts to welfare systems 
and public services have disproportionately affected 
lower-income groups. Although incomes of the wealthy 
were perhaps more severely dented in percentage 
terms by the financial crisis than those of the less 
well-off, opportunities for wealth creation in the past 
few years have conspicuously accrued to those more 
prosperous already. 


At national and supranational levels, technocratic 
governments have given the impression of being 
ideologically complacent about the appropriate path 

to recovery and more accountable to their peers than 
to the general populace. This has been construed as 
insensitivity to suffering in the hardest-hit areas, neglect 
for growing social polarization, and a punitive attitude 
towards struggling economies such as Greece. A failure 
to stimulate growth and meet fiscal targets in declared 
timeframes has been compounded by uncomfortable 
reminders of previous regimes’ deficiencies in 
geopolitical crises - some administrations are still 
haunted, in the form of rising refugee numbers and 
heightened terrorist threats, by decisions to pursue 
military action abroad and a lack of attention to dealing 
with the aftermath. 


In emerging and developing economies, the 
disappointment has been more recent, following years 


3 European Commission, AMECO database, 2016 


of high growth. It has also been more abrupt for the 
commodity producers formerly cushioned by prices 
propped up by strong Chinese demand. The failure of 
leaders to consolidate financial positions in boom times, 
compounded by the vast sums siphoned off through 
corruption, has heightened frustrations.* The meltdown 
of the political and economic fabric in Venezuela, 
widespread terrorism in Nigeria (following the scaling 
back of counter-insurgency initiatives), and increasing 
riots elsewhere suggest the likelihood of ongoing 
torment should economic growth remain weak and 
government finances continue to deteriorate. Traits such 
as the settling of political scores, secretive policymaking, 
and increased authoritarianism have in some countries 
unwound governance progress, sapping the confidence 
of concerned citizens in the political system. 


Advances in communications technology have helped 
fuel the instability. With regard to populist politics, 
diffusion of the powers of mass communication away 
from the owners of mainstream media channels has 
enabled a plurality of (largely uncensored) voices to 
be heard, lowering the barriers to entry for alternative 
political movements. Moreover, the proliferation of 
(often competing) information sources has enabled, 
even obliged, individuals to consciously select and 
promote feeds that they trust — usually those aligned to 
their interests and sentiments. 


More specifically in the area of popular unrest, social 
media have played a key role in encouraging both tacit 
and active support for political causes, by disseminating 
provocative images and videos, often of state oppression 
or successful anti-establishment initiatives. At the 
extreme end of the spectrum, social media have 
facilitated the direct recruitment of adherents to terrorist 
agenda and the self-radicalization of “lone wolves”. 
Organization has also become easier: Social media have 
facilitated the mobilization of individuals for direction 
action, as well as helping refugees connect with fellow 
travelers, people smugglers, and compatriots in origin 
and destination communities. 


4 Molbrahim Foundation, A Decade of African Governance - 2006-2015, 2016 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


RISING INEQUALITY MAY DRIVE 
FUTURE UNREST 


Abiding economic stagnation in advanced economies 
will exacerbate the vulnerability of people in lower- 
income groups to economic and labor market volatility, 
given minimal or negative real income growth among 
working-age populations, the rise in non-regular 
employment, and lower welfare payments. Although 
the dynamics vary across economies, this is broadly the 
case from the US through Europe to Japan. Following 
the political debates this year, pressure on government 
reforms to deliver real advantages to these groups will 
be considerable, notwithstanding fiscal constraints. 


Inequality continues to grow, spurring discontent 
among middle, as well as lower, income groups. 
The contraction of middle class jobs, the growing 
proportion of wealth held by senior citizens, and 


declining home ownership rates (in the US and the UK) 
since the early 2000s are generating cause for concern 


as young people and their parents face the prospect 
that the new workforce may be less well-off than their 
forebears. Against this backdrop, long-term market 
trends suggest that opportunities for wealth creation 
may continue to concentrate among those who are 
already capital-rich, with the OECD suggesting a near 
10 percent rise in average income inequality across 
advanced economies over the past 30 years.® 


O% 


5 OECD, Income Inequality: The Gap between Rich and Poor, 2015 





Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Technological advances facilitating workplace 
automation may aggravate household economic 
concerns in all parts of the world over the coming 
decade, via a potentially dramatic effect on 
employment opportunities. Although labor market 
disruption is likely to affect advanced economies before 
developing countries, impacts in the latter could be 
greater in due course.® With jobs based on routine 
cognitive or manual activities most at risk, industries, 
national economies, and individual career paths will 
be affected in significant ways. Even if the fourth 
industrial revolution does, like previous incarnations, 
create new jobs and wealth, it is by no means assured 
that there will be an orderly transition without a 
significant number of casualties, or that the benefits 
will be widespread. 


“Rise in average income 
inequality across OECD 
countries since 1985” 


Source: 


6 World Bank, World Development Report 2016: Digital Dividends, 2016 


The economic slowdown in emerging markets, 
particularly in commodity-reliant countries, risks 

stalling the significant progress towards global poverty 
reduction achieved in recent decades. Indeed, according 
to the World Bank, the commodities crisis has sharpened 
global inequality by setting back the timeframe by 

which emerging market countries might catch up 

with advanced economies in terms of per capita GDP. 
Moreover, with the exception of India, the demographic 
dividend for economic growth is dwindling in the 

BRICS economies; dependency ratios and healthcare 
challenges are rising at a time when social protection 
systems are still very limited.” This may provide a fresh 
spur to international migration efforts. United Nations 
data shows that the number of people living in a country 
they were not born in (for economic, family, refugee, or 
other purposes) increased by 41 percent from 2000 to 
2015, with such migrants now accounting for more than 
10 percent of the total population of Europe, Northern 
America, and Oceania (see Exhibit 9). 


Exhibit 9: Global migration trends 


INTERNATIONAL MIGRANT AND REFUGEE STOCKS 
WORLD ESTIMATES' 








Domestic inequality issues may resonate more strongly 
with populaces. Since 1990, inequality has deepened in 
many Asian countries.’ In Latin America, weak economic 
conditions may accentuate perceptions of inequality, 
which, although apparently declining, remains very high 
in comparison with other parts of the world. In South 
Africa, the chasm between rich and poor may even 
increase, if historic trends continue. The growth of the 
insulated super-rich in some countries stands out against 
the frustrations of young populations migrating to Asian 
and African cities with great hopes, but finding the living 
expensive and employment hard to find. Complaints from 
the growing number of middle-class citizens will also 
increase if public services, infrastructure, management 

of the economy, and rule of law lag popular expectations 
of an improved quality of life. Issues such as financial 
stability, property ownership, healthcare provision, and 
urban air quality (see Exhibit 10) are already deepening as 
concerns, while at the same time individuals seek further 
opportunities as consumers. 


INTERNATIONAL MIGRANT STOCKS 
SHARES OF TOTAL REGIONAL POPULATION 


INTERNATIONAL MIGRANT REFUGEE STOCK 
STOCK (MILLION) (MILLION) % OF TOTAL POPULATION 
250 25 
Oceania | 
200 20 North 
“~~ America? 
Migrants 
150 15 (Left axis) Europe 
Jae World 
100 10 Migrants 
excluding Africa 
refugees 
50 5 (Left axis) Asia | = 
oN Latin America 2015 
0 0 &the B 
Refugees Caribbean ea 
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 (Right axis) 0 5 10 15 20 25 2000 
Source: UN, Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2015), UN International Migration Report (2015), MMC analysis 


1: The UN definition of international migrant stock includes refugees 
2: Excludes Mexico 


7 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Advancing into the Golden Years: Cost of 
Healthcare for Asia-Pacific’s Elderly, 2016 





8 IMF Working Paper, ‘Shaping the Growth Dividend: Analysis of Inequality in Asia’, 
2016. Inequality has deepened in 15 out of the 22 countries analyzed 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Complex economic transitions — becoming less 
dependent on commodities and boosting consumption 
and services - will be hard for emerging economies 

to deliver at a time of fragile growth. The failure to 

take proper action threatens their long-term prospects; 
but unpopular or risky reforms in the near term may 
feel more dangerous to leaders who prize stability, 

who have ensured acquiescence either through 
nurturing prosperity or by subsidizing the cost of 
living, and who find the level of unrest in their 
populations increasingly difficult to read. 


While the sense of crisis can sometimes help bind the 
populace in a common cause, the prioritization of public 


Exhibit 10: Urban air pollution levels and trends 


MAJOR GLOBAL CITIES (PM, LEVELS) 
ANNUAL MEAN pG/M3 


order and the trend toward more authoritarian rule in 
countries facing these challenges may create a pressure- 
cooker environment, where citizens feel the only solution 
is a violent release of pent-up frustrations. This will be 
exacerbated in the event of pronounced governance 
failures, rising ethnic conflict, and increased popular 
suffering as a result of an inability to respond adequately 
to prolonged climate change events, such as drought. 
Continual pushback against dissent may test the 
tolerance of citizens to seek peaceful resolution rather 
than vociferously or militarily campaigning for change. 





400 
Most recent WHO 
reading 
300 
Advanced 
WHO Guideline Value = economy 
20 pg/m? annual mean oo 
200 / . 
/ Emerging/ 
/ developing 
> / economy 
/ 
/ 
100 > / 
/ 
/ 2009 WHO 
i 1 
/ coy reading 
meee eeeee eo oes 6-¢-2-4--0-0-w-a- 3 
in - Boe = = = as S&S = = = a2 = & S&S BoB S&B SB & SBS = 
Ss 8 af cs Ss 8 o 3 3 o o g oo UF £ 2 & > bt BS = 8 
8 2 & € 2 B= S&S FE =e BER Fe BES EF &B BF Y 8 
zq<fewvwoerst 8@ YF £ F&F &§ & = & & &€ § S&S F BU SE 
so = nant o "a = <= = = — — Zz N 3 raf oO 
s 6 £ £€ 5 € P £& § FB FEF SS He FE Fs EES 
&§ ° &§ & B £& & & 2 @¢ © 6 & €é- 6 © 8 § & 
<= "5 = >» £ & © g 8g § s 2 § 
73 oO 5 wn 7S 5 4 vn = oS Ee 
© 4a = oa s 
Ss a = N 
z 2 2 


Source: WHO Ambient Air Pollution databases, MMC analysis 


1: Due to a lack of available 2009 data, the following data is taken for: Riyadh (2003), Peru (2010), Manila (2007). 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 





Surges in social and political instability are spawning new strategic uncertainties and 
operational risks for firms struggling to chart a path through choppy macroeconomic 
waters. Better insights into potential impacts and creative approaches to mitigation are 
needed to ensure agility and resilience. 


NEW SOURCES OF UNCERTAINTY 
PROLIFERATE 


The macro-level risk environment for companies has 
become more complex and more volatile. The tight 
interplay between economic, political, and societal 
challenges has stimulated a wide range of threats to 
business activity, from civil disturbance and terrorist 
attacks to policy reversals and regime change (see 
Exhibit 11). European airlines, for example, have endured 
both revenue losses from fearful passengers after ISIS 
bombings and a slump in stock prices due to the Brexit 
decision. Moreover, the materialization of social and 
political instability in all countries (albeit with some 
variations) means that home market operations demand 
as much attention as foreign ventures. 


Potential flashpoints are hard to predict, even when the 
characteristics of the risk environment are well known. 
The attempted military coup in Turkey did not seem to 
be on analysts’ radar screens; on the eve of the UK’s 
referendum vote, the bookmakers only had a Leave 
decision at 15 percent likelihood.’ It can be hard to geta 


9 Betfair data on EU referendum at 6:00pm on June 23, 2016 


fix on seismic events even after the fact. Several months 
after the Brexit decision, there is little clarity about the 
platforms for negotiating the UK’s exit from the EU or 
their achievability. Conversely, although order was 
swiftly restored in Turkey, the sweeping deployment 

of emergency powers (removing scrutiny by the 
constitutional court) has added to pre-existing policy 
and political risk for both domestic and foreign firms. 


Government responses to the scale of societal discontent 
and civil disturbance are generating new uncertainties. 
“Done deals” — from labor reform programs to foreign 
investment in critical infrastructure — are coming unstuck 
at the last minute. Firms that are market leaders or have 
particular technological expertise can no longer rely on 
their distinct positioning to set their commercial agenda 
on purely economic terms. Political acceptability has 
become more important in assessing the feasibility of a 
major investment or strategy change. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Indeed, national economic protectionism may 
present increasing challenges. Five aspects merit 


particular consideration: 


Governments beginning to undermine the market 
presence of foreign-owned firms and inhibiting 
newcomers from developing a footprint. Delays in 
legislation designed to open up markets, and the 
increasing obduracy of planning and regulatory 
hurdles for business setup, are often less transparent 
than a hike in tariffs on certain imported goods. 


The consolidation of initiatives to constrain the free 
movement of labor. Higher expectations of locals 
filling senior positions may intensify the war for 
talent in emerging market countries where there is 
a shortage of qualified candidates, while broader 
labor market controls would increase staffing costs 
more generally. 


Increased momentum for (pre-existing) 
investigations into antitrust issues and profit shifting 
to low tax regimes, such as those undertaken 

by the European Commission against the US 
technology giants. 


Revisions to, or cancellations of, blockbuster trade 
deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the 
non-materialization of expected benefits such as 
tariff reductions, patent protections, and greater 
market access. 


The gradual conflation between different forms 

of protectionism — the safeguarding of domestic 
businesses and workers, the maintenance of 
financial sector stability, and the preservation of 
national security — thereby inhibiting certain types of 
foreign direct investment. 


Exhibit 11: Corporate threats from political and social instability (selected) 


Business degradation Transactional discrimination Sy de- lero] (ometar-li(-lale [= 


Challenge + Asset damage 


Likely primary * Terrorism and insurgency 
cause 


+ Business operations 
interruption 


* Supply chain and logistics 
disruption 


* Product / services boycott 


* Market decline (e.g. tourism) 


+ Personnel safety threats 


Civil disturbance 


Tariff hikes 
Taxation increases 


Contract repudiation 


Operating license denial 
or revocation 


Protectionism (national / local) 


Corruption and other 


Delays in enabling 
legislation or regulations 


Indigenization measures 
(local ownership / content) 


Construction permit denial 


Asset requisition, confiscation, 
or nationalization 


Currency inconvertibility 


Import / export license 
denial or revocation 


Forced abandonment 


Economic sanctions (especially 
trade embargos) 


National-level protectionism 


War or coup d'état 


governance failures 


Source: Marsh & McLennan Companies 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


Creeping expropriation has many faces and can 
materialize unexpectedly. While arbitrage benefits 
may be found behind the headaches of fragmenting 
regulation, in such an unsettled environment 
companies would be wise to question the sustainability 
of such opportunities. Likewise, commodity firms 
currently attracted by the competition between 
resource-rich countries for their investment should be 
wary of how a possible deterioration in political and 
social conditions in the years to come might influence 
terms of business and profits. 


Under any circumstances, firms (foreign ones, in 
particular) should expect higher levels of political 

and public scrutiny. Monitoring will be particularly 
intense for possible participation in corruption and tax 
avoidance, with governments wanting to demonstrate 
they are clamping down harder than in previous years, 
both strategically and on a case-by-case basis. Demands 
for financial transparency will intensify, and data on 
questionable practices are increasingly likely to make its 


way into the open, often via illicit channels — the leaking 
of the Panama papers illustrates the risks presented 

by trusted third parties. Innocence is not a sure-fire 
safeguard, as well-behaved companies may be caught in 
the general backlash against more aggressive operators. 


As acorollary, companies may more easily find 
themselves on the wrong side of volatile social, political, 
and environmental issues. Notwithstanding the already 
elevated levels of civil-disturbance risk in many parts of 
the world, social media-driven boycotts, campaigns, and 
disputes may undermine revenues, project timetables, 
and the feasibility of local operations. Strikes and 

other popular demonstrations at company property, 
transportation hubs, and suppliers may impede business 
activity, while the threat of a terrorist attack on a soft, 
talismanic target lurks in the background. Moreover, 

an increased willingness of employees to take a stand 
against their firm may be echoed in a more general 
disengagement of personnel, giving rise to operational 
errors and lapses in judgment. 


§ “Companies may more easily find 
themselves on the wrong side of volatile 
Yoloi f=] am eXe) [Lu lercl parc] alem=vandlae)alecl=laleele Seloce 


o LA 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 





GREATER PREPAREDNESS IS 
ESSENTIAL 


Despite a turbulent year, stock indices in many leading 
economies have shown remarkable resilience. Resisting 
this optimism, however, many companies have returned 
to hoarding cash, regarding it more prudent to monitor 
the progress of others while attempting to intuit how 
media-headline events will affect their own operations 
and performance. This will, of course, not inoculate them 
against shocks, and companies can certainly do more 

to strengthen their positioning by sharpening insights, 
modifying investment strategies, and deepening 
relationships (see Exhibit 12). 


The kaleidoscope of political and societal risks should 
be firmly on the corporate risk radar. Companies with an 
extensive global footprint should triangulate insights 
from local operatives with synthesized media and 
analyst reports, even if smaller organizations may need 
to rely more heavily on third-party advisors. Decision 
makers should not rely on tick-the-box exercises but 
seek to interrogate expert opinion to form a better view 
on its veracity and the scope for alternative outcomes. 
In certain circumstances, it can be valuable for firms 
operating in high-risk countries to share intelligence on 
the changing risk landscape with each other, especially 
where this might inform contingency measures in the 
event ofa crisis. 


These risks should be discussed at the top of the firm. 
Regularly covering these threats in risk reporting 
frameworks, alongside macroeconomic perspectives, 
ensures that senior management and board members 
have a good feel for the ebb and flow of key trends and 
can request further analysis or trigger decisions ina 
timely way. It also enables them to better align reactions 
to exigencies with more strategic responses to longer- 
term changes in the risk environment. 


New kinds of analysis may be necessary. Although it 

is often hard to quantify the threat from outbreaks of 
social unrest and political instability, creative scenario- 
based techniques can help identify points of corporate 
vulnerability in key markets, along with the associated 
implications for performance and assets (including 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


personnel). From this starting point, scenario thinking 
can be used to test the resilience of mitigation and 
contingency measures and also to war-game responses 
to potential crises characterized by events escalating in 
unexpected directions. For example, it is increasingly 
important to include a political risk lens within supply 
chain risk analyses — both into the consideration 

of individual counterparties and into overarching 
concentration risk assessments. 


Opportunities to insulate new strategic investments 
abroad should be sought. Alignment with strategic 
home government trade missions may provide 
necessary momentum for large deal making; this is 
becoming as true for emerging market players seeking 
to enter advanced economies as it is for the converse. As 
this does not prevent plans going awry after the ink has 
dried, being able to allocate resources in an agile way is 
an advantage. In some parts of the world, multinationals 
are seeking to back-load investment where possible and 
ensure they can exit in the medium term if, economically 
and politically, the new market does not develop 

as expected. 


Creative use of risk transfer mechanisms can better 
align protection with needs. The current climate is 
spurring many companies to broaden their insurance 
requirements. Indeed, forced abandonment coverage 
has become a driver of product demand rather than just 
a “throw-in” by insurers, with firms mindful of risks to 
dividend expectations and debt-servicing obligations 
from a sudden and lengthy inability to derive value 
from acore asset. There is further scope to structure 
trade credit policies to secure on- or off-balance sheet 
financing or focus on particular catastrophic risks of 
concern. Moreover, loss estimates generated by risk 
models are capable of not only informing insurance 
coverage and premiums, but also plans for business 
continuity and employee safety. 


Companies should strengthen efforts to build 
relationships and reputation. In the first instance, this 
means being better attuned to the political conversation 


21 


in key markets, and cultivating a wider range of 
stakeholders at national and local level. In addition, pre- 
emptive reputation management is vital for insulating 
the firm against possible targeted campaigns and 
instinctive backlashes that can spiral out of control. On 
the other hand, firms that show they can be part of the 
solution to the causes of unrest — through infrastructure, 
technology, products, or service provision — may 
encounter significant opportunities. 


Finally, companies should deepen their engagement 
with their workforce. In part, this means recognizing, 
as many firms have done, the novel expectations of 
millennials and subsequent generations rising through 
the firm. But it also means anticipating discontent 

and insecurity resulting from changing employment 
structures, increased job mobility, new skills 
requirements, and higher retirement ages. Surveys 

(if carried out with trusted assurances of anonymity) 


Exhibit 12: Pragmatic approaches for companies 













Sharpen risk insights 
» Triangulate on-the-ground 
and strategic intelligence 


» Discuss fundamental trends 
with the Executive Committee 
and the board 





» Test corporate vulnerability 
through scenario techniques 






early exit 


Source : Marsh & McLennan Companies 


22 


Insulate investment strategies 


» Align major foreign investments 
with government missions 


» Back-load capital investment 
or ensure scope for an 


- Make creative use of risk 
transfer facilities 


and other analytical and engagement-based 
methodologies can help gauge changes in employee 
sentiment and behavior that may indicate rising 
turnover challenges or a deterioration in risk culture 
where broader societal discontent is reflected in 
employee behavior. 


Peer-to-peer discussions on responsible employer issues 
can stimulate ideas for solutions and help firms calibrate 
the level of effort being applied across companies of a 
similar size. Indeed, industrywide, employers should 

ask themselves whether they are showing enough 
leadership to preserve or enhance the labor markets 
that serve them well, notwithstanding challenging 
economic conditions. In some countries, taking the 
initiative may stave off regulatory intervention and moral 
suasion by governments; elsewhere, such thinking 


may offer some early-mover advantage in tackling any 
required transition. 











Deepen relationships 


» Cultivate political stakeholders 
at national and local levels 








» Be ready for reputational 
crises from political and 
popular backlashes 


» Pre-empt insecurities and 
discontent in the workforce 








Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 





_ LEADING FOR THE 


a 


= 





Company leaders should prioritize efforts to anticipate profound shifts in the business 
environment and prepare for novel crises. This may inspire bold decisions for building 
resilience and long-term competitive advantage. 


Livelihoods are threatened by economic stagnation, 
persistent unemployment, and rising inequality. 
Meanwhile, governments stand accused of foresight 
failures, pervasive corruption, and insensitivity to the 
needs of the least well-off. It should be no surprise that 
popular frustration is high, direct action is being taken, and 
non-mainstream political movements are finding support. 


The burning question is how this will play out. Those of 
a sanguine disposition see the events of 2016 as cyclical 
in nature, and assume that the old order will eventually 
prevail after the shock of blood-letting. Pragmatic 
responses from seasoned politicians in the UK and 
Germany are testament to centrist parties bending in 
the wind with a view to returning to normal business in 
due course; election results in Peru and Argentina have 
shown a move away from populism. Gloomier types, 
however, view the same evidence base as signaling more 
cataclysmic confrontations to come — uncontrollable 
domestic insurgencies and even the possibility 

of political leaders propelling their countries into 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


international conflict. A third perspective, as outlined in 
this report, takes more of a middle road. It anticipates 
significant policy adjustments by familiar and unfamiliar 
politicians alike as countries face up to deep-seated 
challenges and attempt to navigate difficult transitions. 
By this reckoning, disturbances are likely to continue, 
and we should not expect a resumption of the status 
quo. But hopefully no conflagration will ensue. 


Whatever the actual pathway, the new normal requires 
company leaders to be better attuned to transformational 
shifts in the risk landscape and better prepared for shocks 
that may come from multiple directions. 


23 


Four interlinked priorities will help Chief Executives set 
the right tone from the top. 


First: Leaders should promote discussion of these trends 
at the enterprise level. Focusing only on terrorist threats in 
particular high-risk countries or the political risk to certain 
large transactions will achieve only piecemeal results; at 
the same time, broad-based coverage that reflects last 
year’s concerns would also be inappropriate. Instead, 
searching questions should be asked about exposures 
and opportunities across the entire value chain to the 

key themes of this report, with mitigation resources 
concentrated on addressing catastrophic risks that might 
have material impacts on earnings and share price. The 
alignment of perspectives across senior management and 
the board will energize strategic initiatives that have clear 
direction and coherence. Communicated well, this can 
also inform expectations of the firm’s risk culture. 


Second: It is important to take a fresh look at how the 
company’s strategic ambitions match with political 
agenda and public perception. As the overseas ambitions 
of large companies become increasingly viewed through 
the lens of geo-economic priorities, company leaders 
may need to work harder to ensure their investment 
narrative (market expansion as well as the off/on-shoring 
of activities) does not face undue political setbacks at 
national and local levels, both at home and abroad. 


Third: Again it may be opportune to examine corporate 
positioning from an internal perspective. Refreshing the 
company’s values can help them resonate more strongly 
with employees and strengthen the social contract of the 


employer at a time of potential personnel disengagement. 


This effort can be consolidated by building behavioral 
expectations into performance goals and review 
processes. In addition, aligning corporate social 
responsibility programs more squarely with drivers of 
financial performance or threats to long-term value might 
stimulate greater investment in issues such as workforce 
retraining, as this may mitigate the instability generated 
by structural shifts in future labor requirements. 


24 


Fourth: Crises need to be anticipated and managed in 
an enlightened way. Incidents that appear to be purely 
local and operational may be symptomatic of a wider 
predicament, and an early recognition of structural 
trends can help limit negative impacts. A robust, senior- 
level discussion of weak signals, which may well clash 
with declared directions or vested interests, may spur 
the timely preparation of mitigations, contingency 
plans, and alternative strategies that can be deployed as 
needed. Agility, after all, is a function of preparedness as 
much as innate capabilities. 


KKKKK 


2016 may not be as clearly talismanic for social 
instability as 1968 (student riots), 1989 (Berlin wall 
dismantled), and 2011 (Arab Spring), but the multitude 
of incidents experienced in recent months may have 
complex reverberations and offer further surprises. 
The intractability of the associated policy challenges 
suggests that government responses will lean towards 
political expedience rather than radical solutions. 
Protectionist initiatives, for example, may yield short- 
term benefits for particular constituencies, but at the 
expense of longer-term growth opportunities. These 
actions, moreover, are unlikely to address deep-rooted 
drivers of social instability, such as rapid technological 
advances, inevitable climate change impacts, and 
pervasive inequality. 


Uncertainty is the enemy of investment, and it is 
arguable that the number of plausible scenarios for the 
future has increased. In unsettling times, cool heads 
must balance the exigencies of fast news cycles with 
more profound developments in the risk landscape. 

In this way, company leaders can not only strengthen 
the resilience of their firms but also generate long-term 
shareholder value. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 









“| olan faremalagl=-peele) Malexeles 
must balance the exigencies — 
ffast news cycles with more 7 
profound developments In 


the risk landscape.” 





Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 25 


AUTHOR 


Richard Smith-Bingham 
Director, Global Risk Center, Marsh & McLennan Companies 


richard.smithbingham@mmc.com 
+44 207 852 7828 


CONTRIBUTORS 


Evan Freely, Global Practice Leader for Credit Specialties at Marsh 

Chris Johnson, European and Pacific Leader for the Talent business at Mercer 

Jeremy Lim, Head of the Asia-Pacific Region Health & Life Sciences and Public Sector practices at Oliver Wyman 
Julian Macey-Dare, International Head of the Political Risk and Structured Credit practice at Marsh 

Donald Mango, Vice-Chairman of Enterprise Analytics at Guy Carpenter 

Scott McDonald, Chief Executive Officer at Oliver Wyman 

Peter Regen, Director of Public Sector Consulting in North America at Oliver Wyman 


Anshu Vats, Head of Public Sector Consulting in the Middle East at Oliver Wyman 
The paper has also benefited from research and insights provided by Tom Garvey. 
The Marsh & McLennan Companies’ Global Risk Center’s research partners and broader network were also valuable 


sources for ideas. This included the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, The World Economic 
Forum, and articles published on MMC’s risk insights platform, BRINK. 


26 Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


ABOUT 


This paper was developed by Marsh & McLennan Companies’ Global Risk Center. The Global Risk Center draws 
on the expertise of Marsh, Mercer, Guy Carpenter, and Oliver Wyman, along with top-tier research partners from 
around the world, to address the major threats facing industries, governments, and societies. We highlight critical 
risk issues, bring together leaders from different sectors to stimulate new thinking, and deliver actionable insights 
that help businesses and governments respond more nimbly to the challenges and opportunities of our time. Our 
global digital news hub, BRINK, provides up-to-the-minute insights and informed perspectives on developing risk 
issues; our Asia Pacific Risk Center and BRINK Asia news hub focus on risk issues relevant to the Asian market. 


Marsh & McLennan Companies (NYSE: MMC) is a global professional services firm offering clients advice and 
solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and people. Marsh is a leader in insurance broking and risk management; Guy 
Carpenter is a leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services; Mercer is a leader in talent, health, 
retirement and investment consulting; and Oliver Wyman is a leader in management consulting. With annual 
revenue of $13 billion and approximately 60,000 colleagues worldwide, Marsh & McLennan Companies provides 
analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 130 countries. The Company is committed to 
being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. Visit 
www.mmce.com for more information and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter @MMC_Global. 


Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 27 





Copyright © 2016 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. 


This report may not be sold, reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 


This report and any recommendations, analysis or advice provided herein (i) are based on our experience as insurance and reinsurance brokers or as consultants, 
as applicable, (ii) are not intended to be taken as advice or recommendations regarding any individual situation, (iii) should not be relied upon as investment, tax, 
accounting, actuarial, regulatory or legal advice regarding any individual situation or as a substitute for consultation with professional consultants or accountants 
or with professional tax, legal, actuarial or financial advisors, and (iv) do not provide an opinion regarding the fairness of any transaction to any party. The opinions 
expressed herein are valid only for the purpose stated herein and as of the date hereof. We are not responsible for the consequences of any unauthorized use of 
this report. Its content may not be modified or incorporated into or used in other material, or sold or otherwise provided, in whole or in part, to any other person or 
entity, without our written permission. No obligation is assumed to revise this report to reflect changes, events or conditions, which occur subsequent to the date 
hereof. Information furnished by others, as well as public information and industry and statistical data, upon which all or portions of this report may be based, are 
believed to be reliable but have not been verified. Any modeling, analytics or projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, and any opinions, recommendations, 
analysis or advice provided herein could be materially affected if any underlying assumptions, conditions, information, or factors are inaccurate or incomplete 

or should change. We have used what we believe are reliable, up-to-date and comprehensive information and analysis, but all information is provided without 
warranty of any kind, express or implied, and we disclaim any responsibility for such information or analysis or to update the information or analysis in this report. 
We accept no liability for any loss arising from any action taken or refrained from, or any decision made, as a result of or reliance upon anything contained in this 
report or any reports or sources of information referred to herein, or for actual results or future events or any damages of any kind, including without limitation 
direct, indirect, consequential, exemplary, special or other damages, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. This report is not an offer to buy or 

sell securities or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. No responsibility is taken for changes in market conditions or laws or regulations which occur 
subsequent to the date hereof. 


MARSH & MCLENNAN 
COMPANIES 


