REPORT TO CONGRESS 
ON WAYS TO IMPROVE 
THE EFFECTIVENESS 
OF THE IMF AND 


MITIGATE RISKS TO 
U.S. PARTICIPATION 


United States Treasury 
June 2016 





Contents 


Ty. -- PROM sissississhdcgreanneiaiaeineianmand nea innirenne aia neuen 2 
DM, ECU UREN Y ics ca is vacates iecan xacena cepa teanevantoacesan creates ees eraen ten eere ee aS 3 
TED, Rei bei sssscivesssivccdssssstentesseedesssevtiessinvcicneviartarnsinininiannisnisisn disniaissnatssentndasieen 5 
1. Changes to IMF Surveillance in the Aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis........... 5 
2. Encouraging Countries to Implement IMF Policy Recommendations....................00 v4 
Se. The EVIE’ s Transparency Poulcy iscessscisccesscacscsccnssscoaisocsdesscenncoesnsnseeavneovsantxensionniivucatusavenaes 9 
4. Risks of Exceptional Access Loans — Surcharges and Collateral ..............scsssssseeeees 10 
5. Classification of Loans Following the Implementation of the 2010 Quota Reforms. 12 
6. Lessons Learned from Lending Arrangements that Involve the Troika................00« 13 
7. Transparency and the IMF’s Technical Assistance (TA) ..........ssccsssccssssssssssssesssseseeees 15 
Appendix 1: Sample Article IV Risk Assessment Matrix .............ccscssscssssssssssssccsscsesssescsseees 18 
Appendix 2: Sample Article IV Implementation Scorecard ...............scccscssssssssssesscesscsscseseees 20 


I. Preface 


The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, requires the Secretary of the Treasury to report on 
ways to improve the effectiveness, and mitigate the risks, of U.S. participation in the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF). Specifically, the Act requires Treasury to provide: 


1. An analysis of recent changes to the surveillance products and policies of the IMF and 
whether these effectively address the shortcomings of surveillance by the IMF in the 
periods preceding the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. 

2. A discussion of ways to better encourage countries to implement policy 
recommendations of the IMF including: 

o Whether implementation would improve if the IMF provided regular status 
reports on implementation, and 

o Whether or not IMF lending should be limited to countries that have taken steps 
to implement policy recommendations. 

3. An analysis of the transparency policy of the IMF, ways that transparency policy can be 
improved, and whether such improvements would be beneficial. 

4. A detailed analysis of the riskiness of exceptional access loans provided by the IMF 
including: 

o Whether the interest rate surcharge is working as intended to discourage large 
and prolonged use of IMF resources, and 

o Whether it would be beneficial for the IMF to require collateral when making 
exceptional access loans, and how requiring collateral would affect the make-up 
of exceptional access loans and the demand for such loans. 

5. A description of how the classification of IMF loans has changed following the 
implementation of the 2010 quota and governance reforms, including the effect on the 
classification of outstanding exceptional access loans. 

6. A discussion and analysis of lessons learned from the lending arrangements that 
included the IMF, European Commission, and the European Central Bank during the 
European sovereign debt crisis. 

7. An analysis of the risk or benefits of increasing the transparency of technical assistance 
projects of the IMF, including: 

o The advantages and disadvantages of the current disclosure policies, 

o How IMF technical assistance could be better used to prevent crises from 
happening in the future, and 

o Whether and how the IMF coordinated technical assistance projects with other 
organizations, including the U.S. Treasury Department, to avoid duplication of 
efforts. 


Il. Executive Summary 


The United States and other founding members created the IMF to promote the stability of the 
international monetary system. The IMF fulfills this obligation through three main functions: 
surveillance, financial assistance to member countries, and technical assistance. As one of the 
chief architects of the IMF and its largest shareholder, the United States is committed to 
maintaining the effectiveness of the IMF. The U.S. Treasury Department works closely with the 
U.S. Executive Director’s office at the IMF to promote U.S. policy priorities and improve the 
functioning of the IMF to minimize risk to the United States and promote a stable international 
monetary system. 


Surveillance is at the core of the IMF’s mandate and is critical to the IMF fulfilling its missions 
of promoting economic growth, facilitating external sector adjustment, and assisting members in 
addressing balance of payments difficulties. Since the global financial crisis, the IMF has taken 
substantial steps to enhance its surveillance. It has established an Early Warning Exercise to 
consider tail risks facing the global economy. It has strengthened its financial sector and external 
sector surveillance. Looking forward, Treasury will continue to press the IMF to incorporate 
clear and candid assessments of the external sector into its surveillance and to keep its 
surveillance tightly focused on its core mandate. 


The IMF can most effectively fulfill its mission when it provides relevant policy advice that has 

a positive influence on member country policy decisions. The IMF has taken steps to strengthen 
the implementation of its policy recommendations through incorporating scorecard assessments 

of actions taken to address past recommendations. This is done at the bilateral level through the 
annual country surveillance reports and on a multilateral basis through the Managing Director’s 

semi-annual Global Policy Agenda. 


The IMF provides financial assistance to countries with balance of payments needs, supporting 
the implementation of adjustment policies and reforms that will restore conditions for strong and 
sustainable growth, employment, and social investment. Before receiving a loan, a country must 
commit to undertake reforms to restore economic stability and sustainability. The IMF has taken 
steps with U.S. support to examine its lending practices by drawing lessons from previous crises 
to provide better targeted and flexible lending. An analysis in 2012 by IMF staff found 
conditionality in lending programs has become better tailored to individual country needs, more 
streamlined, and more tightly focused on core areas of IMF expertise than in the past. Based on 
reviews of the IMF’s experience with crisis cases in the euro area, Treasury believes that IMF 
lending played an essential role in mitigating risks of spillover to the global economy, but there 
are a variety of lessons from the IMF’s experience, including on the pace of reforms and 
financing contributions. 


The IMF provides technical assistance and training to help member countries build capacity in 
key areas of economic policy-making and management, including central banking, monetary and 
exchange rate policy, tax policy and administration, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist 
financing, and official statistics. Much of this work is financed by donors. The IMF has worked 
in recent years to improve the coordination of its technical assistance with that of other TA 
providers. 


Transparency in IMF advice and practices is key to improving accountability across all three 
main avenues of the IMF’s work (surveillance, lending, and technical assistance). IMF 
transparency has increased substantially over the past two decades, from publication of verbatim 
transcripts of Board discussions to publication of country economic data and greater sharing of 
IMF technical assistance reports with other donors to promote coordination. Treasury continues 
to look for ways to enhance transparency while preserving the candor required in IMF 
discussions with member states. 


Implementation of the IMF’s 2010 quota and governance reforms in February 2016 was an 
important milestone for the IMF, strengthening the IMF’s core resources and the legitimacy of 
the IMF’s governance by better reflecting current weights in the global economy. These reforms 
reinforced the central role of the IMF in the international monetary system, and the leadership 
role of the United States as the largest shareholder in the IMF. Since access to IMF resources is 
linked to the size of a country’s IMF quota, following the quota reform, the IMF adjusted its 
access limits in a way that prevented any country from experiencing a decline in access. 


III. Report 


1. Changes to IMF Surveillance in the Aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis 


The IMF’s bilateral and multilateral surveillance aims to encourage policies that contribute to 
global growth and financial stability and discourage policies that are not sustainable or have 
harmful spillover effects on other countries. The IMF’s economic surveillance work is 
comprised of country reviews (known as Article IV reviews)’, financial sector assessments, and 
regional and global reviews that focus on a range of topics. The IMF periodically reviews its 
overall surveillance through the Triennial Surveillance Review (TSR) and through separate 
reviews of the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). The IMF updates and adds to the 
range of reports and analytic tools it uses in surveillance, as circumstances warrant. As a result 
of the global financial crisis, the United States and other IMF shareholder pressed the IMF to 
strengthen its surveillance most notably in the financial sector but in other aspects as well. 
Internal reviews, including a report by the IMF’s Independent Evaluation Office (IEO) in 2011, 
and a review by the G-20 helped inform steps to strengthen IMF surveillance. 


In November 2008, G-20 Leaders called on the IMF and the Financial Stability Forum, which is 
now the Financial Stability Board (FSB) to collaborate in conducting Early Warning Exercises 
(EWE). The IMF and FSB launched the first official EWE in October 2009. The EWE is 
designed to strengthen assessments of systemic, low probability, high impact risks to the global 
outlook, and identify possible mitigating actions. The exercise integrates macroeconomic and 
prudential perspectives on systemic risks. It draws on analytical work, market information, and 
consultations with market participants, academics and country authorities. The IMF undertakes 
the EWE on a semi-annual basis and, following discussions by the IMF Executive Board and the 
FSB Plenary, presents the findings to senior International Monetary and Financial Committee 
(IMEC) officials during the IMF’s spring and Annual Meetings.” Information discussed at the 
EWE is not made available to the public but is used to inform risk analysis and surveillance by 
the IMF. 


IMF staff analysis of the fiscal response to the global financial crisis led to the creation of the 
Fiscal Monitor, a semi-annual publication that analyzes key public finance developments and 
provides medium-term fiscal projections for member countries. The Fiscal Monitor also 
examines policies to address near-term challenges as well as to put public finances on a medium- 
term sustainable path. The April 2016 Fiscal Monitor, for example, examined the use of fiscal 
policy to promote innovation and boost productivity growth. 


The 2011 Triennial Surveillance Review (TSR) examined weaknesses in pre-crisis surveillance 
and suggested improvements. Recommendations to enhance surveillance included: 


e Regularly analyzing spillovers and cross-country issues; 
e Conducting in-depth risk assessments in bilateral and multilateral surveillance products; 
e Publishing assessments of external balances; and 


' The obligation for IMF member countries to cooperate with the IMF on surveillance of their economies is 
contained in Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement. 

* The IMFC was created to advise the IMF Board of Governors. It is comprised of 24 members who represent the 
189 governors of the IMF. Its structure mirrors that of the Executive Board and its 24 constituencies. 


e Improving financial sector surveillance. 


As aresult of the 2011 TSR, the IMF Executive Board adopted a new Decision on Bilateral and 
Multilateral Surveillance in 2012. This decision: expanded the scope of Article [TV consultations 
to include cross-country spillovers, including those generated by domestic policies; incorporated 
financial stability into the range of issues to be examined in assessing the stability of the 
international monetary system; and provided broader guidance on members’ obligation related to 
domestic economic and financial policies and their spillover effects. 


The IMF incorporated spillover analysis in Article IV reports and in an annual Spillover Report. 
The United States welcomed the integration of spillover analysis in the Article IV reports. The 
United States also pushed for an integration of the spillover analysis in the existing IMF 
publications, notably the World Economic Outlook (WEO). In 2015, IMF management decided 
to cease publication of the standalone report and began incorporating spillover analysis more 
systematically into the WEO. 


The 2011 TSR found that the IMF’s risk focus was uneven. To address this in Article IV reports, 
the IMF began including a risk assessment matrix that examined key domestic and global risks 
facing a country, the expected effects and policy recommendations to address the risks. (See 
Attachment | for an example of an Article IV risk assessment matrix.) The IMF also expanded 
coverage of risks in its flagship publications, the WEO and the Global Financial Stability Report 
(GFSR). 


The United States has long pressed the IMF to improve its external sector surveillance and the 
transparency of its exchange rate analysis. As a significant outcome of the 2011 TSR, the IMF 
developed an External Sector Report (ESR) in 2012. The ESR provides much greater in-depth 
coverage of IMF exchange rate assessments, as well as assessments of reserves, the drivers of 
current account imbalances, and provides information on capital flows and measures. Consistent 
with U.S. recommendations, the IMF elevated the ESR in 2015 from a “pilot” to a permanent 
annual publication that currently covers the 29 largest economies. 


As part of the development of the ESR, the IMF updated and strengthened its methodology for 
assessing exchange rates and current account balances on a multilateral basis. Moreover, the 
IMF published not only the methodology but also the data and assessments for 25 countries. 
This External Balance Assessment (EBA), published annually along with the ESR, was a major 
step forward in IMF transparency. The IMF also updated its analysis of foreign exchange 
reserves, developing and publishing a new methodology to assess the adequate level of reserves 
for emerging market and developing countries. 


Given the key role the financial sector played in causing and transmitting the global crisis, the 
IMF has examined ways to improve its surveillance of the financial sector within and across 
countries. Following a 2009 review, the IMF adopted changes to strengthen the Financial Sector 
Assessment Program (FSAP) in response to the global financial crisis. The IMF established the 
FSAP in 1999 as a voluntary program providing a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of a 
country’s financial sector. The IMF and World Bank jointly conduct FSAP assessments for 
emerging market and developing economies and the IMF conducts FSAPs for advanced 
economies. The IMF and World Bank review the FSAP program as a whole every five years. 
The 2009 FSAP review led the IMF to introduce a financial Risk Assessment Matrix with greater 


6 


emphasis on crisis preparedness, and to develop methodologies to assess macro-prudential risks. 
In September 2010, the IMF Executive Board made it mandatory for jurisdictions with 
systemically important financial sectors to undergo FSAP assessments every five years. The 
2014 FSAP review recommended ways to facilitate further integration of FSAP findings and 
recommendations into Article IV surveillance. 


The 2014 TSR focused on areas highlighted by the 2011 TSR with particular attention to risk and 
spillover analysis. The 2014 TSR called for greater integration of bilateral and multilateral 
surveillance, recommended strengthening external sector assessments by gradually applying the 
EBA model to a broader set of countries, and undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the 
external position beyond just the exchange rate in Article IV reports. The TSR also 
recommended including a discussion of the contribution of domestic policies to external 
imbalances. Incorporating more countries into the EBA model was problematic given the lack of 
available data for all indicators in the model. To address this problem IMF staff developed an 
EBA-lite methodology that incorporates key aspects of the EBA model with a smaller set of 
variables. This has provided a more consistent methodology for exchange rate and current 
account analysis for about 150 economies. Analysis of exchange rates is now more consistently 
applied in the Article IV reports. 


2. Encouraging Countries to Implement IMF Policy Recommendations 


IMF surveillance aims to identify risks to the global and member economies as well as identify 
policy responses to mitigate those risks. Some multilateral surveillance incorporates a status 
update on past IMF policy recommendations. In the multilateral realm, the IMF’s Managing 
Director presents a Global Policy Agenda twice a year to the Executive Board and the IMFC. 
This includes a scorecard of priority policy actions for advanced, emerging and developing 
countries undertaken in the previous six months, and where further effort is needed. The IMF 
also presents Surveillance Notes to the G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors 
meetings which includes recommendations for policy action by G-20 countries. The IMF also 
works closely with the FSB to identify risks, most notably through the EWE discussed above 


On a bilateral basis, the Article IV process is the IMF’s primary means for regular policy 
discussions and recommendations. IMF staff economists continually monitor members’ 
economies. They visit member countries—usually annually—to exchange views with the 
government and the central bank and consider whether there are risks to domestic and global 
stability that argue for adjustments in economic or financial policies. Based on these 
discussions, staff submits an “Article IV report” for each member to the IMF Executive Board, 
which meets to discuss the staff’s analysis and recommendations. The IMF publishes a summary 
of the Board’s assessment on the IMF website shortly after the Board meeting. Nearly all 
member countries also permit publication of the Article IV report and any “Selected Issues” 
papers, which provide a more in-depth analysis of key issues relevant to the member’s economy. 


Bilateral surveillance now includes a status update of past IMF policy advice. In 2014, IMF staff 
began incorporating an annex in the Article IV reports on policy advice from the previous Article 
IV report. The annex provides the policy actions that countries have implemented in response to 
the IMF’s policy recommendations, and highlights areas that countries have yet to address. This 
implementation report provides a convenient way for the IMF, Executive Board members, 


country authorities, and the public to examine the degree to which member countries are taking 
actions to implement policy advice. (See Attachment 2 for an example of an Article IV policy 
implementation scorecard assessment.) 


The FSAP process is also a way for IMF staff to analyze potential risk factors facing a member 
and make policy recommendations. The FSAP provides a comprehensive and in-depth 
assessment of a country’s financial sector. FSAPs analyze the resilience of the financial sector, 
the quality of the regulatory and supervisory framework, and the capacity to manage and resolve 
financial crises. Based on its findings, FSAPs produce policy recommendations of a micro- and 
macro-prudential nature, tailored to country-specific circumstances. FSAPs conclude with the 
preparation of a Financial System Stability Assessment (FSSA), which focuses on issues of 
relevance to IMF surveillance and is discussed at the IMF Executive Board together with the 
country’s Article IV report. Each FSAP also includes a discussion of previous policy 
recommendations and the country’s actions to implement them, both of which are then regularly 
included in the Article IV policy implementation annex. 


IMF lending programs have built-in requirements to help compel countries to adopt policies that 
are consistent with IMF recommendations in return for IMF financial support. A member 
country borrowing from the IMF is typically required to commit to implementing a series of 
policies that have been negotiated between IMF staff and the country authorities, referred to as 
conditionality. The conditionality may involve prior actions, measures that a country must adopt 
or put into place before the Board approves the program, as well as ongoing performance criteria 
for key fiscal and monetary indicators (such as the budget balance and the stock of foreign 
exchange reserves) and forward-looking structural benchmarks (such as specific actions to 
strengthen public financial management or financial sector supervision). These measures help 
strengthen a country’s economic foundation and the prospects for returning to macroeconomic 
health. 


The IMF makes disbursements under a program in installments as countries carry out agreed 
economic policy actions. This approach promotes progress in program implementation, provides 
time for the country to adjust to economic shocks in a manner less disruptive to the country itself 
and the global economy, and safeguards the IMF's resources. Program reviews provide a 
framework for the IMF’s Executive Board to assess quarterly or semi-annually whether the IMF- 
supported program is on track and whether modifications are needed to achieve the program’s 
objectives. Reviews combine a backward-looking assessment on whether the country met the 
program conditions on the agreed timetable, with a forward-looking perspective (i.e., whether the 
program performance criteria or structural benchmarks needs to be modified in light of new 
developments). The IMF Executive Board reviews a country’s progress on agreed policy 
commitments and actions and must approve any monetary disbursements under an IMF- 
supported program. If a program has gone off track, the IMF may require prior actions before 
recommending that the Executive Board conduct its review and consider disbursing the next 
installment. 


The current framework appropriately conditions IMF lending on the implementation of 
policies within the country authorities’ control. At the same time it maintains flexibility to 
provide support that is needed due to external shocks. Such support included emergency 
assistance and debt relief for the Ebola-affected countries in 2015, and funding for 
reconstruction efforts in Nepal following the 2015 earthquake. The IMF’s effectiveness as 


the primary institution to promote global financial stability is bolstered by its ability to 
combine policy conditionality with appropriate flexibility. 


3. The IMF’s Transparency Policy 


The IMF has made great strides in improving institutional transparency and in encouraging 
greater public sector transparency in member economies. Over the past two decades, the IMF 
has fundamentally changed its transparency policy, enabling the organization to contribute 
openly to public debates during the global financial crisis and to respond to heightened scrutiny 
of its increased financing activities. 


Until the mid-1990s, the IMF published few of the reports prepared for the Board. With strong 
advocacy from the United States, the IMF’s shareholders have progressively moved to expand 
the IMF’s transparency policy. The IMF’s archives were first opened up to outside persons in 
1996, granting access to documents that were 30 years old, subject to certain conditions. Since 
then, the time lag for public access to most IMF documents has been progressively reduced and 
now amounts to just a few weeks for many Article IV country reports for example. 


In 2004, the IMF revised its policy to call for the publication of the vast majority of IMF 
documents (subject to country consent for country papers), institute regular reporting on ongoing 
trends on publication, and undertake periodic reviews of the transparency policy itself. 

Countries retain the right to request deletion of highly market-sensitive material prior to a 
document’s release. Publication of annual Article IV staff reports is “voluntary but presumed.” 
This means that these reports are published except in the rare cases when the country issues an 
objection. Release of country program documents is also “voluntary but presumed,” but the 
Managing Director historically has not recommended approval of an exceptional access program 
unless the country has agreed to publish the related staff report. 


In 2014, 92 percent of member countries agreed to publication of their respective IMF Article IV 
country report. Only four countries have never allowed Article IV report publication — Bahrain, 
Brunei, Oman, and Turkmenistan. At the Board, the United States continues to press countries 
to publish their Article IV reports. 


In 2014, 97 percent of member countries under an IMF program agreed to publish their letters of 
intent, memoranda on economic and financial policies, and technical memoranda of 
understanding. Over the past decade the IMF has published all exceptional access program 
proposals and program reviews. Most of these are available within a few weeks of the Board 
meeting. 


The IMF also publishes all policy papers, typically following the Board discussion. The 
publication of policy papers is presumed but is subject to Board approval, while the publication 
of multi-country documents requires consent either from the Board or the relevant members 
depending on the type of document. In 2014, the Board reduced the lag for public access to most 
Board meeting minutes from five to three years. The IMF has retained the five-year lag for 
discussions that involve IMF lending or a Policy Support Instrument. Board minutes include 
verbatim transcripts of the meeting. The United States has supported these changes and will 
continue to look for ways for the IMF to increase its transparency. 


The IMF also publishes, on a timely basis, information regarding each member country’s 
financial positon in the IMF. IMF financial data are updated weekly and available on the IMF’s 
website. These data include a summary of financial assistance to member countries in support of 
their policy programs, available IMF resources, arrears, and key IMF rates. 


The IMF established the Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS) in 1996 to guide 
members that have, or might seek, access to international capital markets in providing their 
economic and financial data to the public. For member countries with less developed statistical 
systems, the IMF established the General Data Dissemination Standard (GDDS) in 1997 as a 
framework for evaluating their needs for data improvement and setting priorities. In 2012, the 
IMF created SDDS Plus as an upper tier of the IMF’s Data Standards Initiatives to help address 
data gaps identified during the global financial crisis. The United States was one of the first 
adherents to the SDDS Plus. 


In 2015 the enhanced GDDS (e-GDDS) replaced the GDDS. More than 97 percent of IMF 
member countries participate in the eeGDDS, SDDS, or SDDS Plus. There are currently 110 
participants in the e-GDDS, 66 SDDS subscribers, and 8 SDDS Plus adherents. 


Based on the results of a March 2015 review of the IMF’s Data Standards Initiative, IMF 
management decided to focus greater attention on helping GDDS countries graduate to SDDS. 
The United States strongly supports the IMF’s push to focus technical assistance resources on 
GDDS countries and to use surveillance reviews to call attention to priorities for filling data gaps 
and improving data dissemination. Notably, in October 2015 China subscribed to SDDS, which 
will help provide better information across a number of data categories, including China’s 
reserve holdings. 


4. Risks of Exceptional Access Loans — Surcharges and Collateral 


The IMF can provide lending above normal access limits to countries in crisis, subject to the 
IMF’s exceptional access framework. While such lending inevitably involves risk, the unique 
nature of IMF lending, including the IMF’s ability to attach policy conditions to its lending, and 
the IMF’s status as the world’s “preferred creditor” (whereby countries routinely prioritize 
payment to the IMF ahead of payment to other creditors), substantially mitigates this risk. For 
example, as part of an IMF program, the country and the IMF may agree to permit the exchange 
rate to depreciate, which can reduce outflows of foreign exchange, improve export revenues, and 
strengthen a country’s external sustainability, ultimately strengthening the country’s ability to 
repay the IMF. In addition, because the international community recognizes the IMF as the 
world’s “preferred creditor,” failure of a country to repay the IMF effectively cuts a country off 
from other sources of finance, amplifying the consequences of a failure to repay and making it 
far less likely to happen. That is why of the 24 cases of IMF exceptional access lending since the 
global financial crisis began in 2008, there was only a single instance of a country not repaying 
in full and on time, and in that case (Greece in June 2015) the country quickly remedied the 
delay in its repayment to the IMF. Indeed, a number of countries that have received exceptional 
access from the IMF have made early repayments to the IMF. From an institutional perspective, 
the IMF’s balance sheet is rock solid, with precautionary balances of over $23 billion and gold 
holdings worth about $102 billion at current market value (carried on the balance sheet at $4.5 
billion), relative to credit outstanding of $67 billion. 


10 


In addition, the IMF’s exceptional access framework includes a set of four criteria that 
borrowing countries must meet, which are designed to provide clarity and predictability for 
borrowers and the markets and to further safeguard IMF resources. The criteria are: (1) balance 
of payments pressure on the capital account that cannot be met within existing financing limits; 
(2) a high probability that debt will remain sustainable, based on a rigorous and systematic 
analysis; (3) good prospects for regaining private capital market access while IMF resources are 
outstanding; and (4) a strong adjustment program and a reasonably strong prospect of success, 
considering the member’s adjustment plans and its institutional and political capacity to carry 
them out. 


The IMF uses both level and time based surcharges to further mitigate risks (by generating 
income to boost precautionary balances) and create incentives for countries to avoid large and 
prolonged use of IMF resources. Level based surcharges were introduced in 2000 to discourage 
unduly high access but are set so as not to discourage countries with need from seeking 
assistance. In 2009, level based surcharges were set at 200 basis points above the normal 
borrowing rate on credit outstanding over 300 percent of quota. In February 2016, the Board 
approved a reduction in the threshold for level based surcharges from 300 percent to 187.5 
percent of quota. The surcharge was kept at 200 basis points. 


The IMF introduced time-based surcharges in 1997 to provide an incentive for early repayment. 
When credit outstanding exceeded the threshold for level-based surcharges for more than 36 
months, a time-based surcharge of 100 basis points was added. In February 2016, the Board 
decided to differentiate between SBAs and EFFs. SBAs, the main non-concessional facility, are 
typically 12 to 24 months in duration and cannot extend beyond 36 months. In contrast, EFFs 
are intended for countries with more prolonged difficulties, including underlying structural 
problems, and generally last 36 months with a possible extension to 48 months. The repayment 
period for an EFF is also longer, 4 2 to 10 years compared to 3 % to 5 years for the SBA. IMF 
staff maintained that it takes longer on average for a country with an EFF to regain markets 
access, namely 39 months, compared to 15 months for a country with an SBA. Based on IMF 
staff advice, the Board kept the time-based threshold at 36 months for the SBA but increased it to 
51 months for the EFF. 


While surcharges have become more prevalent following the global financial crisis, the current 
system of price-based incentives appears to achieve its objective of discouraging members’ 
prolonged use of IMF resources. Since 2008, five members with high levels of credit 
outstanding—Iceland, Latvia, Hungary, Ireland and Portugal—have made large early 
repurchases. Iceland and Latvia had pre-existing arrangements with the IMF and were exempted 
from the 2009 surcharge policies, while Hungary, Ireland, and Portugal were subject to the 
system of level- and time-based surcharges. Early repurchases made by Hungary, Ireland, and 
Portugal appear to coincide with regained market access and a reduction in the cost of market 
borrowing. Ireland made early repurchases so as to reduce its credit outstanding to just below 
the surcharge threshold as market access became relatively cheaper; this suggests that 
eliminating the surcharge was a motivation for making the early repurchases. 


The IMF did not consider introducing collateral during the 2016 review of access and 

surcharges. Collateral would add an additional safeguard for IMF resources but could also act as 
a disincentive to approach the IMF in the early stages of a crisis, resulting in the need for greater 
financing. Further, the insistence on collateral for exceptional access programs could undermine 


11 


market confidence in the country and delay a return to market access. Treasury believes that 
current safeguards are sufficient to protect the IMF from incurring losses, as demonstrated by the 
IMF’s very strong balance sheet after more than 70 years of operation. 


5. Classification of Loans Following the Implementation of the 2010 Quota Reforms 


The IMF links the amount of most borrowing from the IMF to a member country’s quota. The 
IMF sets access limits at levels intended to meet member’s balance of payments needs and 
provide members with confidence regarding the scale of possible financing, while preserving the 
IMF’s liquidity and the revolving nature of its resources. The IMF Executive Board reviews 
these limits every five years to ensure their continuing adequacy relative to potential need and 
capacity to repay. In 2009, the Board approved an increase in normal access limits for 
borrowing under the Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) and Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to 200 
percent of quota on borrowing in a 12-month period and a 600 percent of quota cumulatively, net 
of scheduled repurchase obligations. 


The IMF Executive Board postponed the 2014 review pending the implementation of the 2010 
quota reforms. These reforms became effective in February 2016 and doubled country quotas on 
average. IMF staff proposed reducing access limits to 140 percent of quota over a 12-month 
period and 420 percent of quota cumulatively for the SBA and EFF. Staff argued that these 
levels would result in a rise in average nominal access consistent with the growth in global GDP, 
trade, and external liabilities (excluding foreign direct investment) since 2009. Treasury 
supported the proposed changes but some Board members pushed for higher access limits, with 
several opposing an outcome where nominal access for some countries would decline. The 
Board reached a compromise whereby access limits were reduced to 145 percent of quota over 
a 12-month period and 435 percent of quota cumulatively for the SBA and EFF. This resulted in 
an average increase in access of 45 percent in special drawing rights (SDR) terms.’ The increase 
ensures that no country’s access declines in nominal terms and that access relative to key 
economic indicators was maintained. Since the quota increase was not distributed equally across 
all countries (but rather weighted in favor of dynamic countries whose weight in the global 
economy had grown), the impact on IMF access of individual countries varies. 


The adjustments to access limits have not resulted in any reclassification of country programs. 
There are no active programs that were approved as exceptional access, but would now fall 
within normal limits. Currently, Ukraine is the only active exceptional access program; other 
exceptional access programs have already concluded, and are in the process of being repaid. As 
indicated in the table below, the Ukraine program exceeds normal access thresholds under both 
the current cumulative threshold (435 percent) and the former cumulative threshold (600 
percent). Similarly, member countries that were not subject to the exceptional access framework 
prior to the entrance into effect of the modifications to overall access limits would be 
grandfathered. No countries, however, met this threshold. 


Ukraine EFF approved March 2015: 





SDR billion (US$ billion) Percent of pre-reform quota Percent of current quota 














12.348 billion ($17.5 billion) 900 percent 614 percent 





> The SDR is a basket of currencies used as a unit of account by the IMF. 


12 





The SBA and the EFF are the main non-concessional lending facilities of the IMF. The IMF also 
reduced access under other facilities both non-concessional and concessional, as shown in the 
table below. The Flexible Credit Line, a short-term facility reserved for countries with very 
strong fundamentals, policies, and a good track record of policy implementation, has no preset 
access limit. 


Annual and Cumulative Normal Access Limits by Facility 


as a percent of quota 






Current Limits Previous Limits 








Annual |Cumulative} Annual  |Cumulative 

Non-Concessional 
SBA/EFF 600 
RFI 150 
PLL 1000 
Concessional 
SCF/ECF 450 
RCF 

Normal 150 

Shocks 150 








Note: Access limits for the concessional loan facilities and the Rapid 
Financing Instrument (RFI) were rasied by 50 percent in July 2015 with 
the understanding that they would be halved once the 2010 quota 
reforms were effective. 


6. Lessons Learned from Lending Arrangements that Involve the Troika 


There have been a series of opportunities for the IMF staff, management and shareholders to 
reflect on the lessons learned from IMF lending to the euro area crisis countries: Ireland, Greece, 
Portugal and Cyprus. The IMF conducted self-evaluations through ex post country evaluations 
of the Ireland and first Greece program, and two broad reviews of crisis programs (including 
euro area countries) in 2011 and 2015. The IMF’s Independent Evaluation office (IEO) also 
reviewed the IMF’s crisis lending programs in 2014. Forthcoming are self-evaluations of the 
Portugal, second Greece, and Cyprus programs, and an IEO review focused on the euro area 
countries. 


The IMF’s participation in the euro area programs was essential and substantial, and there is 
much to learn from what went right and what went wrong. The IMP’s technical skills and 
experience in program design were critical to the credibility of the euro area lending 
arrangements. At the time that the euro area programs were implemented, particularly with 
respect to the Greece programs, there was a real risk of severe European and global contagion 
from a potential euro area exit. This contagion would have had very severe and damaging 
consequences for the global economy and the U.S. economy. The United States believes that the 
IMF Board made the right choice in approving the IMF’s participation in these programs. 


13 


Nevertheless, important lessons can be learned from an evaluation of the individual programs 
and the interaction the IMF with the euro area institutions to guide future exceptional access 
programs and engagement with regional financial arrangements. On the program side key 
lessons include: 


Exchange Rate Adjustment/Internal Devaluation: Depreciation of the exchange rate 
can aid adjustment of an economy by easing the adverse effects on output. The euro area 
programs, however, faced a common challenge: because they were in a currency union, 
they were constrained from using exchange rate policy as a tool, and had to rely on 
“internal devaluation”. Internal devaluation which relies on domestic price adjustment 
proved difficult, slow and painful. Low inflation and weak external demand further 
complicated the process. The longer-term nature of adjustment through internal 
devaluation emphasizes the importance of finding the right balance between requiring 
upfront adjustments and a more gradual approach. 

Structural Reforms: Structural reforms are particularly important for countries requiring 
an internal devaluation and hence may need to be more extensive than in other programs. 
However, some structural reforms turned out to have a stronger drag on near-term growth 
than the IMF expected. As a result, the capacity of authorities to implement reforms is 
critically important and program assumptions need to account for the potential short-term 
drag on growth from reform implementation. Structural measures also need to be 
sequenced to favor growth-enhancing measures particularly in the early stages of a 
program. The IMF’s analysis indicated that staff assumed near-term positive growth 
effects from supply-side reforms in both Greece and Portugal programs, a result that was 
at odds with the empirical literature on the effects of such reforms. 

Fiscal Consolidation: Many of the euro area countries had high levels of public debt 
requiring fiscal consolidation. The prescribed fiscal consolidation, however, often 
proved too large and too fast to support a recovery in growth. In Ireland’s program a 
more even distribution of fiscal adjustment, rather than a more front-loaded approach, 
helped limit the contraction in demand. As with structural reforms, program design 
needs to take into account the effects of fiscal consolidation on output. In Greece, the 
greater than expected effect of consolidation on output under the first program and the 
consequent rise in the debt to GDP ratio led IMF staff to push for a more gradual 
approach to consolidation in the follow on programs. To help address these issues, the 
IMF should consider additional financing to accommodate a more gradual consolidation 
as well as timely debt restructuring. 


The IMF’s experience with euro area crisis programs also provides lessons with respect to the 
role of the European institutions in financing and program design. 


Importance of Institutional Arrangements in a Monetary Union: The Greek crisis 
highlighted the shortcomings of the euro area architecture that did not provide for 
adequate risk sharing and crisis response. The establishment of firewalls through the 
creation of the European Financial Stability Facility and the European Stability 
Mechanism helped reduce the threat of contagion. By the time of the Cyprus program in 
2013, the ability to limit contagion allowed for a deeper restructuring. The European 
efforts to move to a banking union and the creation of a Single Supervisory Mechanism 
should help prevent future crises and limit the spread of crises. 


14 


e Financing Arrangements: Membership in a currency union constrains the policy 
options that the IMF would normally pursue (i.e. exchange rate adjustment) and 
lengthens the period of adjustment, while the IMF’s financing remains short-term in 
nature. Thus, the United States has strongly supported an approach in which the currency 
union typically bears the bulk of financing costs and IMF financing plays a secondary 
and catalytic role. 

e Currency Union Conditionality: Regarding program design, a key insight is that 
currency union-level policies can matter critically for country outcomes, and thus 
currency union-level conditionality can and should be used. The IMF’s policy dialogue 
with the currency union could have been strengthened in areas such as ECB monetary 
and supervisory policies, construction of European firewalls, and intra-European 
economic imbalances that compressed demand in the periphery countries. In addition, 
more of the euro areas dimensions could have been included in euro area country 
surveillance and program reviews. 


The upcoming IEO evaluation of euro area programs is an important opportunity to delve 
more deeply into these issues so the IMF and international community can continue to learn 
from this experience and incorporate lessons into future crisis response. 


7. Transparency and the IMF’s Technical Assistance (TA) 


Many countries rely on the IMF’s technical expertise and request technical assistance from the 
institution in areas including macroeconomic policy, monetary and exchange rate policy, 
financial stability frameworks, fiscal policy and debt management, public financial management, 
tax policy and administration, and official statistics. 


In June 2013, the IMF rolled out an updated version of its official policy on dissemination of TA 
information. The report encapsulating this policy, entitled Staff Operational Guidelines on 
Dissemination of Technical Assistance Information, is available on the IMF website. Governing 
this policy is the principle that countries, in requesting TA from the IMF, consent to 
dissemination of information about that TA unless they explicitly object. In addition to the 
organization receiving TA from the IMF, other recipients of TA information may include 
Executive Directors (EDs) and their staff, donors and other TA providers with a legitimate 
interest, and/or the general public. Prior to revision of the policy in 2008, a patchwork of 
overlapping practices for specific situations led to a lack of clarity, further inhibiting wider 
sharing of TA information. As a result, before 2008, the general practice was to treat most TA 
information as confidential. 


The current policy states that TA information can be shared per the following guidelines. 

e General TA information is considered not-confidential, unless otherwise requested by the 
recipient country. The IMF makes such non-confidential TA information available to 
EDs and their staff, donors, and the general public, upon request. 

e Final TA advice is considered confidential, but if such information is requested by EDs 
and their staff, donors, or other TA providers with a legitimate interest, the IMF makes 
such information available upon absence of objection from the recipient country. When 
making such information available, the IMF requires that recipients maintain the 
confidential nature of the information. 


15 


These guidelines seek to strike a balance among: the IMF’s role as a confidential advisor to the 
authorities, the public value of IMF transparency, and the importance of information sharing 
among TA providers to promote coordination and reduce overlap. 


The IMF’s TA can help in crisis prevention by strengthening public sector institutions and 
policies. Experience suggests that helping economies develop resilient and deep capacity, with 
sufficient buffers to dull the effects during onset, represents the biggest opportunity to prevent 
crises. In providing for greater capacity, the IMF’s Monetary and Capital Markets department 
has seen an increase in interest for more advanced TA, specifically dealing with crisis 
management, systemic issues, central bank operations, banking regulation and supervision, and 
monetary frameworks. Although financial crises are likely to remain difficult to predict and 
efforts to prevent crises may not always succeed, TA can still be beneficial in amelioration of 
crisis effects. The IMF and Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance (OTA) have worked 
together to employ a wide range of TA interventions to stem the effects of crises and resolve 
failing institutions. Given downside risks to the global economy, deep capacity building 
engagements are needed. 


The IMF does not have capacity to meet all country requests for TA, and can leverage its TA 
resources by partnering with other TA providers including OTA. As in all donor-related 
endeavors, coordination is critical to effectiveness, and the IMF seeks to minimize duplication of 
effort and maximize complementarity. The IMF employs a range of coordination mechanisms 
depending on the country situation, from a formal Steering Committee, to joint participation 
under single project management, to discrete activities under a consolidated work plan, to regular 
communication about complementary projects. 


Bilateral and multilateral donors are playing an increasingly important role in financing the 
IMF’s technical assistance, with their contributions now financing nearly half of the IMF's effort. 
Strong partnerships between the IMF and other donors also help improve the quality and content 
of the IMF’s technical assistance. 


Recognizing the value of these partnerships, the IMF is taking steps to engage with donors and 
other TA providers on a broader, longer-term and more strategic basis. For example, the IMF is 
seeking to pool donor resources in multi-donor trust funds on a regional and topical basis to 
supplement the IMF's own resources for technical assistance while leveraging the IMF's 
expertise and experience. The IMF has already established topical trust funds in the areas of 
anti-money laundering/combating the financing of terrorism; management of natural resource 
wealth; tax policy and administration; and debt management. 


The IMF and Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance (OTA) have complementary models of 
operation, with the IMF engaged in a broader set of countries with more intermittent support, 
while OTA provides deeper engagement in a particular issue area (often with resident advisors) 
in fewer countries. This provides opportunity for OTA/IMF collaboration. For example, OTA 
and the IMF have worked together to help the Central Bank of Myanmar strengthen its 
framework for anti-money laundering and counter terrorist finance (AML/CFT), with OTA 
assisting with outreach events to engage the private sector, and the IMF focusing on examination 
procedures. When the IMF was unable to complete its work during its shorter-term engagement, 
the IMF coordinated with and handed off to OTA to finish the project. The IMF’s coordination 
spans both bilateral and multilateral donors. In Iraq, the IMF is assisting the central bank with 


16 


legal regulatory work to strengthen its AML/CFT regime, while the World Bank is providing 
training sessions on the basics of bank supervision, and OTA will be complementing these 
efforts through one-on-one assistance to supervision staff on practical implementation. 


In recent years, OTA has also assisted the IMF with development of its Tax Administration 
Diagnostic Assessment Tool (TADAT), which the IMF rolled out in November 2015. TADAT 
is the IMF’s toolset for diagnosing gaps and opportunities in a country’s tax administration. 
OTA provided feedback during development of the tool to improve its accuracy and practicality. 
Treasury’s OTA is now the only external organization trained, licensed, and authorized by the 
IMF to use TADAT to help countries identify areas for tax administration improvements. 
Examples of recent IMF-OTA engagement are provided in the box below. 


Technical Assistance Partnerships between the IMF and Treasury’s Office of Technical 
Assistance 


Mongolia — The IMF and OTA are engaged in a jointly run tax administration project to 
improve collection and management of tax revenue. The IMF/OTA partnership on the project 
has benefitted from a single leadership strategy and a unified set of goals. 


Guinea Bissau and Burma — The IMF and OTA have worked in partnership in these countries, 
among others, to jointly assess and address local needs in the area of tax administration. 

Often times, work on the project will be split between IMF and OTA to leverage each 
organization’s comparative advantage— given the local context. 


Ukraine — In the immediate aftermath of the Euromaidan crisis, the IMF and OTA’s Banking 
& Financial Services Team worked together to address the needs of the distressed banking 
sector. OTA brought specific and deep experience with resolving failing institutions, 
allowing for insured depositors to be paid out, and working with the National Bank. 





17 


Appendix 1: Sample Article IV Risk Assessment Matrix 


Brazil: Risk Assessment Matrix? 




















Nature/Source of | Likelihood Expected Impact on Economy Policy Responses 
Threat 
Domestic Risks 
Delays in the M H. Firms under investigation, including Strengthen governance standards and anti- 
resolution of the Petrobras, could see their access to corruption safeguards in procurement 
Petrobras funding diminished and their investment procedures to ensure the success in attracting 
corruption probe programs at risk. The infrastructure private sector participation in the infrastructure 
concession program could be hampered program. Ease the requirement that Petrobras’ 
by the ineligibility of construction participate in all new oil developments, and 
companies. Pressure would rise to use domestic content requirements. 
public funds, possibly through public 
banks, to support Petrobras’ investment. 
Drought and H H. Growth slowdown from electricity Keep policies tight to contain spillovers into 
power rationing rationing accompanied by inflationary inflation and refrain from introducing additional 
pressures as consumers will have to bear Treasury subsidies which will weaken the fiscal 
the additional energy cost in the absence outturn. Make sure that prices reflect scarcity to 
of energy subsidies. Water rationing could promote the efficient use of resources, while 
affect manufacturing as well as agriculture, | protecting basic level of access for vulnerable 
including in Sao Paulo state. households. 
Falling short of M H. Fiscal balances would continue to Additional fiscal consolidation measures should 
the fiscal target disappoint and fail to stabilize debt. be identified to restore credibility in the fiscal 
Further loss of confidence would result in | frammework and to ensure debt stabilizes. Focus 
lower investment and growth. Inflationary efforts on boosting competitiveness and 
pressures would remain elevated. Brazil productivity. If the sovereign loses its 
could lose its investment grade, which investment grade, triggering economic side- 
would further dampen confidence and effects, additional policy actions would be 
growth, weakening the primary balance necessary, possibly including monetary policy 
and increasing sovereign borrowing costs tightening. 
and public debt. Corporates could be 
vulnerable to capital flow reversals and 
exchange rate depreciation. The strains 
would worsen if banking system 
soundness deteriorated owing to an 
increase in NPLs. 
Intensified M H. Worsening inflation expectations and Further monetary tightening to preserve the 
inflationary further erosion to the inflation targeting credibility of the inflation framework and 
pressures framework. ensure the convergence of inflation towards the 











target. 








’ The Risk Assessment Matrix (RAM) shows events that could materially alter the baseline path (the scenario most likely to 
materialize in the view of IMF staff). The relative likelihood of risks listed is the staff's subjective assessment of the risks surrounding 
the baseline (“low” is meant to indicate a probability below 10 percent, “medium” a probability between 10 and 30 percent, and 
“high” a probability between 30 and 50 percent). The RAM reflects staff views on the source of risks and overall level of concern as 
of the time of discussions with the authorities. Non-mutually exclusive risks may interact and materialize jointly. 





18 





Brazil: Risk Assessment Matrix (Concluded) 


























Nature/Source of | Likelihood Expected Impact on Economy Policy Responses 
Threat 
External Risks 
Protracted M H. Employment destruction would lead to Monitor for signs of emerging domestic 
period of low a deterioration of households’ balance financial and corporate vulnerabilities. Take 
growth sheet and income resulting in a rise in measures to strengthen the fiscal framework 
delinquencies on consumer loans. including public debt, and refrain from adding 
Increased financial vulnerabilities among further demand stimulus. Impose targeted 
banks with portfolio concentrated in prudential measures to reduce risks in weak 
consumer/housing loans. Potential knock financial institutions. Smooth out the 
on effects on public finances. For example, employment loss by relying on strategies such 
Caixa extends housing loans to low- as reduced hours. Accelerate efforts to improve 
income families with a government the business environment and foster 
guarantee. Lower corporate profits may investment. 
expose some highly leveraged corporates 
Abrupt surges in H H. Increasing Brazil's risk premiums, The flexible exchange rate remains an important 
global financial pressures on the real and reversal of capital flow shock absorber. Recourse to FX 
market volatility capital flows. Increasing yields in domestic intervention if FX volatility becomes excessive. 
bond markets. In particular corporates Provide FX liquidity and support individual 
lacking FX hedging could be exposed. banks if dollar shortages appear. Increase policy 
rate to ensure adequate external financing. May 
also need to tighten fiscal policy to further 
strengthen policy credibility and avoid sell-offs 
of Brazilian domestic bonds. 
Financial M M. Building-up vulnerabilities as some Monitor highly leveraged corporate; consider 
imbalances from corporates may further increase leverage. CFMs to discourage shorter-term borrowing. 
protracted Tighten monetary policy further if financial risk 
period of low taking becomes excessive. 
global interest 
rates 
Protracted H H. Worsening current account deficit and Use the exchange rate as first shock absorbers. 
period of slower weaker growth. Highly indebted Limited room for monetary and/or fiscal policy 
global growth in corporates could see their profits decline. stimulus to smooth shock. Instead, prioritize 
advanced and A sharp decline in commodity prices structural reforms to boost potential growth. 
emerging would have a direct impact on the 
economue> exporting sector. 
Sharp rise in M L. Mild negative impact on the trade Domestic pricing policies should ensure 
world oil prices balance in the short-term, but improving Petrobras obtains an adequate return from 
current account in the medium term, when commercialization of imported fuel. 
Brazil is expected to become a net oil 
exporter. In the near term, an adverse 
impact on the finances of Petrobras if 
domestic fuel prices are not adjusted 
sufficiently. 














19 





Appendix 2: Sample Article lV Implementation Scorecard 


United States 2015 Article IV -- Responses to Past Policy Advice 


Fiscal policy. Over the last few years staff has emphasized the importance of fixing long standing fiscal 
problems to slow entitlement spending and normalize the budget process. Cost saving measures that were 
part of the Affordable Care Act appear to be lowering health care inflation. A continuing resolution for the 
rest of FY2015 that was passed in December 2014, subsequent extension of funding for the Department of 
Homeland Security, as well as bipartisan support for passing a reform package that ends automatic 
Medicare payment cuts to doctors —the so-called “Doc-Fix” were positive steps that lessened fiscal 
uncertainties. Staff also advocated adopting a medium-term fiscal consolidation plan to restore long-run 
fiscal sustainability, stressing that early action is needed to slow entitlement spending. Anchored by such a 
plan, staff called for expanding the near-term budget envelope through specific measures—including front- 
loaded infrastructure spending, a better tax system, active labor market policies, and improving educational 
spending, with these measures funded by offsetting savings in future years. The prospects for progress in 
these areas remain unfavorable, given the lack of political consensus. 


Monetary policy. Given continued economic slack and expectation of muted inflationary pressures, staff 
supported maintaining policy rates at zero for longer (past mid-2015) than foreseen by markets at the time 
of the last consultation. Staff also stressed the importance of a well communicated normalization of U.S 
monetary policy conditions, in the context of robust U.S growth, and pointed to scope for enhancements to 
the Fed’s communications toolkit. The Fed continues to maintain a supportive monetary policy and has 
made significant efforts—in FOMC statements, press conferences, and speeches—to strengthen its 
communication and prepare markets for normalization. 


Financial policies. Based on the 2010 FSAP and subsequent work, staff has recommended several steps to 
tackle financial sector risks, particularly those related to activities in nonbank intermediaries. Substantial 
progress has been made on the national and global financial reform agenda over the last few years, and 
many of the policy suggestions have been implemented. These include enhanced capital and liquidity 
buffers, strengthened underwriting standards in the housing sector, greater transparency to mitigate 
counterparty risks, as well as progress in collecting more comprehensive information to assess risks. Still, 
several reforms emphasized by staff, such as addressing remaining vulnerabilities of the money market 
funds and the tri-party repo market, allowing for the orderly resolution of too-important to-fail financial 
institutions, and reforms to increase the resilience of the insurance sector remain to be completed. 


Structural policies. Staff has recommended several structural measures to counter the slowdown in 
potential growth and high poverty rates, including expand the EITC, increasing the minimum wage, investing 
in infrastructure and education, improving the tax system, using active labor market policies, implementing a 
broad, skills-based approach to immigration reform and capitalizing on the gains from rising U.S. energy 
independence. The Administration has taken measures to increase wages for some workers and several 
states and localities have increased minimum wages. Building political consensus on a reform of the tax 
system in the direction envisaged by staff (a less complex system with a broader tax base and lower rates) 
has made little progress. Support for immigration reform is elusive and there is no plan to raise the gas tax 
or to introduce a VAT or a carbon tax. 


Housing finance. Staff has stressed policy measures to encourage greater availability of mortgage credit, 
while clarifying the future role of government in housing finance. Administrative measures have been taken 
to lessen regulatory uncertainties and to transfer risks from the agencies to private investors through market 
transactions. Legislative proposals to more fundamentally reshape housing finance have made little headway 
in Congress. 





