‘4 


Australian! MUStralian Bureau of Statistics 


Statistics 


1329.0.55.002 - Vineyards Estimates, Australia, 2009-10 


Previous ISSUE Released at 11:30 AM (CANBERRA TIME) 13/10/2010 


Summary 


Summary of Findings 


SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 


INTRODUCTION 


Estimates from the 2010 Vineyards collection indicate that total wine grape production was 
down 9% from 2009. 


AREA OF VINES 


Wine grape growers cultivated 157 thousand hectares of vines for the 2010 season. The 
total bearing area for wine grapes was 152 thousand hectares, while the area not yet 
bearing was 4.8 thousand hectares. Red wine grape varieties comprised 61% of the total 
area of vines and 61% of the total bearing area. 


GRAPE PRODUCTION 


Total wine grape production in 2010 was 1.5 million tonnes, a decrease from 1.7 million 
tonnes the previous year. South Australia remained the largest producing state with 731 
thousand tonnes. New South Wales was the next largest producing state with 443 thousand 
tonnes, followed by Victoria with 284 thousand tonnes. 


Red wine grape production (845 thousand tonnes) was higher than white wine grape 
production (688 thousand tonnes). The highest red wine grape production was in South 
Australia with 57% (482 thousand tonnes) of total red wine grapes produced. The highest 
white wine grape production was in New South Wales with 36% (250 thousand tonnes) of 
total white wine grapes produced, closely followed by South Australia with 248 thousand 
tonnes. 


Three varieties of grapes accounted for 60% of all wine grape production: shiraz (403 
thousand tonnes), chardonnay (298 thousand tonnes) and cabernet sauvignon (214 
thousand tonnes). Shiraz accounted for 48% of all red wine grape production in 2010, 
compared to 44% in 2009. Chardonnay accounted for 43% of all white wine production in 
2010, compared to 48% in 2009. 


RED WINE GRAPE PRODUCTION (a), Australia - 2010 


hearot 
Pinot Noir 
Shitez 
Total rad grapes (bh) 
18) 200 400 GO SOO 1000 
tonnes (000) 
fa) Production refers to production (fresh weight) for winemaking or 
distiltion. 
ih) eludes all surveyed red wine grape varieties. For further detaik 
refer Table 2. 


WHITE WINE GRAPE PRODUCTION (a), Australia - 2010 


Total white grapes (bh) Si io eas oka 


+*) 200 400 GO 800 1000 
tonnes (000) 
fa) Production refers to production (fresh weight) for winemaking or 
distillstion. 
th) chides all surveyed white wire grape varieties. For further detaik 
refer Table 2. 


Main Features 


NOTES 


ABOUT THIS PUBLICATION 


This publication presents estimates from the Australian Bureau of Statistics' (ABS) 2010 
Vineyards collection. Included are statistics on the area and production of wine grapes and 
summary information by wine grape variety. The publication presents data for Australia and 
states and territories, with sub-state data based on Geograpical Indication (GI) Zones 
provided in an attached data cube. An additional data cube providing information on 
watering sources and methods is also provided. 


Additional wine and grape industry data will be published in Australian Wine and Grape 
Industry (cat. no. 1329.0) and in Agricultural Commodities, Australia, 2009-10 (cat. no. 
7121.0). 


The Vineyards collection excludes table, drying and other grapes. 


CHANGES IN THIS ISSUE 


The 2010 Vineyards collection was a census of all in-scope vineyards and collected 
information on a wide range of wine grape varieties. This is in contrast to the 2009 vineyards 
collection, which was undertaken using a survey methodology and collected information on 
the major wine grape varieties only. The 2010 Vineyards collection also included additional 
questions related to watering sources and methods. Associated data are available in an 


attached data cube. 


For further information on the scope and content of 2010 Vineyards collection please refer to 
the Explanatory Notes. 


INQUIRIES 


For further information about these and related statistics, contact the National Information 
and Referral Service on 1300 135 070. 


About this Release 


Provides final estimates from the vineyards survey. This includes information at national and 
state levels on areas of vines (including, areas: bearing, not yet bearing and those removed 
or grafted) and production of grapes. It also includes summary data on major grape 
varieties. 


Explanatory Notes 


Explanatory Notes 


EXPLANATORY NOTES 


INTRODUCTION 
1 This publication presents estimates from the ABS Vineyards collection, 2010. 


2 The Vineyards collection is run on behalf of the Grape and Wine Research and 
Development Corporation (GWRDC). It is designed to collect varietal information on all 
significant grape varieties grown and provide information about grape growing and 
production for wine-making, including areas watered, and volume and sources of water 
used. The main user of this information is the Australian wine industry's Statistics Working 
Group (SWG), which is made up of representatives of industry peak bodies and represents 
the views of the industry on statistical matters. 


SCOPE AND COVERAGE 


3 In contrast to the 2009 Vineyards collection, the 2010 Vineyards collection was a census 
of all in-scope vineyards. Estimates of area, production and yield are presented in the 
publication for Australia and states and territories, and are available for sub-state regions in 
the attached data cubes. The sub-state regions are based on Australian Geographical 
Indication (GI) zones. State and territory data on watering sources and methods are also 
available in an attached data cube. 


4 Australian Geographical Indication (Gl) Zones are official descriptions of Australian wine 


zones as defined in the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980. For more 
detail on Australian Geographical Indication (Gl) Zones, see the Australian Wine and Brandy 
Corporation website, http://Awineaustralia.com/australia 


5 The scope of the 2010 Vineyards collection was agricultural businesses recorded on the 
ABS' Business Register (ABSBR) above a minimum size cut-off. The ABSBR is based on 
the Australian Business Register (ABR) which is administered and maintained by the 
Australian Taxation Office (ATO). 


6 A minimum size cut-off of $5,000 was applied to determine whether a business was in- 
scope for the 2010 Vineyards collection, as well as being identified on the ABSBR as a wine 
grape grower/vineyard through survey feedback or from Australian and New Zealand 
Standard Industrial Classification (ANZSIC) information. The measure of size was based on 
either the ABS' Estimated Value of Agricultural Operations (EVAO) or a derived value based 
on Business Activity Statement (BAS) turnover. 


7 While the ABSBR does not include all agricultural businesses in Australia, it provides 
improved coverage from the previous ABS-maintained Agricultural Survey frame, since most 
businesses and organisations in Australia need to obtain an Australian Business Number 
(ABN) from the ATO for their business operations. The ABR-based register also provides 
more up-to-date coverage as it excludes agricultural businesses with cancelled ABNs and 
incorporates regularly updated information on agricultural businesses from the ATO. 


8 Viticulture statistics relate to the year in which the harvest occurred and are derived from 
information obtained in a collection of all known growers. Data quality is continually being 
improved through advancements in coverage. 


GENERAL 


9 The statistics in this publication are the final Vineyards estimates for 2009-10. No 
preliminary data were released for the 2010 Vineyards collection. 


10 Where figures have been rounded, discrepancies may occur between sums of the 
component items and totals 


ABS DATA AVAILABLE ON REQUEST 


11 As well as the statistics included in this and related publications, the ABS may have other 
relevant data available on request. Inquiries should be made to the National Information and 
Referral Service on 1300 135 070. 


GENERAL ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


12 ABS publications draw extensively on information provided freely by individuals, 
businesses, governments and other organisations. Their continued cooperation is very 
much appreciated. Without it, the wide range of statistics published by the ABS would not be 
available. Information received by the ABS is treated in strict confidence as required by the 
Census and Statistics Act 1905. 


RELATED PUBLICATIONS 


13 A range of publications relevant to the Agriculture sector are produced by the ABS, 
including: 


= Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification (cat. no. 1292.0) 
Agricultural Commodities, Australia (cat. no. 7121.0) 

Australian Wine and Grape Industry (cat. no. 1329.0) 

Principal Agricultural Commodities, Australia, Preliminary (cat. no. 7111.0) 
Value of Agricultural Commodities Produced Australia (cat. no. 7503.0) 

Water use on Australian Farms (cat. no. 4618.0) 


14 Current publications and other products released by the ABS are listed under the 
Statistics and Topics @ a Glance pages on the ABS website <https://www.abs.gov.au>. The 
ABS also issues a daily Release Advice on the website which details products to be 
released in the week ahead. 


Abbreviations 
ABBREVIATIONS 
ABN Australian Business Number 
ABS Australian Bureau of Statistics 
ABSBR Australian Bureau of Statistics Business Register 
ACT Australian Capital Territory 
ANZSIC Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification 
ATO Australian Taxation Office 
Aust. Australia 
BAS Business Activity Statement 
cat. no. Catalogue number 
EVAO Estimated Value of Agricultural Operations 
ha hectare 
NSW New South Wales 
Qld Queensland 
SA South Australia 
t tonne 
Tas. Tasmania 
Vic. Victoria 


Quality Declaration - Summary 
QUALITY DECLARATION - SUMMARY 
INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT 
For information on the institutional environment of the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), 


including the legislative obligations of the ABS, financing and governance arrangements, 
and mechanisms for scrutiny of ABS operations, please see ABS Institutional Environment. 


RELEVANCE 


Vineyards Estimates, Australia (cat. no. 1329.0.55.002) presents final estimates from the 
annual Vineyards collection. In contrast to the 2009 survey, the 2010 Vineyards collection 
was undertaken as a census. Production and area related information was collected for 40 
of the major wine grape varieties. The estimates include information on areas of vines 
(including areas bearing, not yet bearing and those removed or grafted) and production of 
grapes for wine making. In addition, the 2010 collection includes irrigation of grapevines 
information. 


The Vineyards collection is run on behalf of the Grape and Wine Research and 
Development Corporation (GWRDC). The main user of this information is the Australian 
wine industry's Statistics Working Group (SWG) which is an industry body made up of 
representatives of industry peak bodies and represents the views of the industry on 
statistical matters. The output from the collection is essential for research and analysis by 
national, state and regional organisations involved in policy development, legislation, 
planning and infrastructure and by those directly involved in the grape and wine industries. 


TIMELINESS 


Vineyards Estimates, Australia (cat. no. 1329.0.55.002) are generally released 4 months 
after the end of the reference period. 


ACCURACY 


Data from the 2009-10 Vineyards collection are based on a final raw response rate of 92%. 
Data from the Vineyards collection have been quality assured using recognised statistical 
techniques. The resultant estimates have been extensively edited to ensure the accuracy of 
the estimates produced. This included checking against earlier years and relevant other 
sources, and contacting data providers who had reported major changes or unusual values. 


COHERENCE 


The Vineyards collection is sent to all agricultural businesses recorded on the ABS' 
Business Register (ABSBR) as a grape grower/vineyard through survey feedback or from 
Australian and New Zealand Standard Industrial Classification (ANZSIC) information. The 
ABSBR is based on the Australian Business Register (ABR) which is administered and 
maintained by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO). The data produced are expected to be 
consistent with earlier census-based estimates for the wine grape varieties collected. 


Information on drying and table grape area and production was not collected on the 2009-10 
Vineyards collection but was included in the total area and production information collected 


in the 2009-10 Agricultural Survey. These data will be released in Agricultural Commodities, 
Australia (cat. no. 7121.0). 


INTERPRETABILITY 


The Vineyards collection provides varietal information on the main wine grape varieties 


grown and measures the industry's activity throughout Australia. Not all data from this 
collection are published. Some further data, including data for Australian Geographical 
Indication (GI) Regions are available on application to the ABS. Detailed Explanatory Notes 
are provided with the publication to assist users in determining and specifying their data 
requirements and to understand the concepts underlying the data. 


ACCESSIBILITY 


An extensive range of data are available from the Vineyards collection and a variety of other 
agriculture based collections. 


If the information you require is not available as a standard product or service, then ABS 
Consultancy Services can help you with customised services to suit your needs. Inquiries 
should be made to either the National Information and Referral Service on 1300 135 070 or 
Agriculture Client Services on (03) 6222 5939. 


© Commonwealth of Australia 


All data and other material produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) constitutes Commonwealth copyright administered by the ABS. 
The ABS reserves the right to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. Unless otherwise noted, all material on this website - 
except the ABS logo, the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, and any material protected by a trade mark - is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 2.5 Australia licence 


