‘4 


Australian! M\UStralian Bureau of Statistics 


Statistics 


1329.0 - Australian Wine and Grape Industry, 2009 


Previous ISSUE Released at 11:30 AM (CANBERRA TIME) 28/01/2010 


Summary 


Main Features 


NOTES 


ABOUT THIS PUBLICATION 

This publication presents a summary of statistics on grape and wine production and related 
activities collected by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) and from other sources. 
CHANGES IN THIS ISSUE 

Significant changes have been made to the content and presentation of this publication in 
consultation with users. As a result, data previously presented for Prices, Consumption of 
Alcohol per Capita, Expenditure and World Comparisons are no longer included in this 
publication. Some additional changes are listed below. 

Viticulture 

Due to the methodological changes to the Vineyards Survey, viticulture tables present data 
for wine grape production only and for a reduced number of grape varieties. Users should 
be aware that these changes mean that data for Vineyards, 2008-09 are not directly 
comparable with data for previous years. 

Sub-state data based on Geographical Indication (Gl) Zones and derived zones previously 
presented in this publication can now be found in an attached datacube. 


Wine Surveys 

Tables relating to Brandy data have been excluded. 

International Trade 

Tables presenting the imports and exports of Australian wine of selected countries have 


been combined to better reflect the trade relationship of selected countries. 


SOURCE MATERIAL 


All sources cited refer to ABS publications and/or ABS data available on request. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


The continuing collection of varietal data is supported by Australia’s grape-growers and 
winemakers and the Australian government through the Grape and Wine Research and 
Development Corporation. 


ROUNDING 
Where figures have been rounded, discrepancies may occur between sums of the 
component items and totals. 


INQUIRIES 


For further information about these and related statistics, contact the National Information 
and Referral Service on 1300 135 070 or Paul Sutcliffe on Adelaide (08) 8237 7302. 


Summary of findings 


SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 


OVERVIEW 


There were 1.7 million tonnes of grapes crushed in the 2008-09 financial year, a decrease of 
0.1 million tonnes (5.4%) on the previous financial year. Consistent with this decline, the 
area of grape bearing vines fell to 157 thousand hectares and yields fell to 10.7 tonnes per 
hectare at 30 June 2009. 


There were 1.2 billion litres of beverage wine produced in 2008-09, a decrease of 74.8 
million litres (5.9%) compared to 2007-08. 


In contrast, 2008-09 exports of Australian produced wine rose 5.2% to 752 million litres as 
compared to the previous financial year while domestic sales of Australian wine also 
increased by 0.6% to 430 million litres. The 2008-09 inventory values increased by 0.1% to 
1.9 billion litres from 2007-08. Imports of wine into Australia rose 16.7% to 62 million litres in 
2008-09, up from 53 million litres reported in 2007-08. 


WINE AND GRAPE INDUSTRY - 2008-09 


Value % change from 2007-08 
Area of bearing vines (ha) 157 290 (a)na 
Total winegrape production (t) 1 683 643 (a)na 
Fresh grapes crushed (t) 1 732 506 -5.4 
Beverage wine production (million L) 1182.6 -5.9 


Beverage wine inventories (million L) 1879.3 0.1 


Domestic sales of Australian wine (million L) 429.9 0.6 


Domestic sales value of Australian wine ($m) 1 962.2 -5.3 
Exports of Australian wine (million L) 752.1 5.2 
Exports of Australian wine ($m) 2 477.9 -7.6 
Imports of wine (million L) 62.2 16.7 


Imports of wine ($m) 473.3 9.7 


(a) Due to changes in methodology, data presented from the Vineyards Survey, 2008-09 are not directly 
comparable with data for previous years (See paragraph 7 of Explanatory Notes). 

Source: Sales of Australian Wine and Brandy by Winemakers (cat. no. 8504.0), ABS data available on request, 
Annual Wine Survey, Vineyards Survey. 


About this Release 


A statistical compendium of Australia's wine and grape industry containing information on: 
area of vines and production of grapes; wine production and grapes crushed; structure of 
the wine manufacturing industry; inventories of wine owned by winemakers at 30 June; 
domestic wine sales; exports and imports of wine. 


History of Changes 


This document was added or updated on 10/02/2010. 


10/02/2010 Note: This publication is being updated to correct State data in table 9 "Wine 
Production". No other changes to the publication have been made. 


Explanatory Notes 


Explanatory Notes 


EXPLANATORY NOTES 


INTRODUCTION 


1 This publication presents final estimates from the ABS collections: Inventories of 
Australian Wine and Brandy, 2008-09, Wine and Spirit Production, 2008-09 (Annual Wine 
Survey), Sales of Australian Wine by Winemakers, 2008-09 and Vineyards, 2009. Not all 
data from these collections are published here. Some further data are available for a charge, 
on application to the ABS. 


2 This publication is a summary of statistics on grape and wine production and related 
activities collected by the ABS and from other sources. Some of the data used in this 
publication were obtained from various ABS collections for which publications with 


appropriate Explanatory Notes are already available. The bibliography contains a list of 
these publications. 


3 The Viticulture tables replace the previous publication Viticulture, Australia (cat. no. 
7310.0) and contain information on area of vines and production of red and white grapes for 
the 2009 season. The continuing collection of varietal data is supported by Australia's 
grape-growers and winemakers and the Australian government through the Grape and Wine 
Research and Development Corporation. 


4 Differences exist between the grape production intended for winemaking reported by 
grape growers in the viticulture collection and the quantity of fresh grapes crushed by 
winemakers reported in the Wine and Spirit Production Collection. Differences in the 
collection methodologies, as outlined below, mean some difference should always be 
apparent between the series. 


SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF VITICULTURE SURVEY 
5 Viticultural statistics relate to the year in which the harvest occur. 


6 Prior to the 1999 collection, an exercise was undertaken to increase the number of known 
growers included in the collection. The improved coverage, of over 1,000 growers, means 
that the data presented for 1999 and later years are not directly comparable with data for 
previous years. 


7 In contrast to previous years, the 2009 Vineyards collection was undertaken using a 
survey methodology and collected information on the major wine grape varieties only. The 
scope of 2009 Vineyards Survey was agricultural businesses recorded on the ABS Business 
Register (ABSBR) above a minimum size cut-off. The ABSBR is based on the Australian 
Business Register (ABR) which is administered and maintained by the Australian Taxation 
Office (ATO). This business based frame replaces the land based frame previously used for 
the Vineyards collection. The methodological changes mean that the data presented for 
2009 are not directly comparable with previous years. 


8 Tasmanian data are collected in partnership with the Department of Primary Industries 
and Water. The scope of the collected data is the same as for other states. 


9 Viticultural statistics are presented on an Australian Geographical Indications basis in this 
issue. The Geographical Indications are official descriptions of Australian wine zones, 
regions and sub-regions which are defined in the Australian Wine and Brandy 
Corporation Act, 1980. The zones and regions listed in the following table were provided to 
the ABS by the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The list includes those regions 
which had been determined at the time of the Vineyards 2009 Survey. 


10 For more detail on Australian Geographical Indications including maps of the zones and 
regions contact the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation web site <http:// 
www.wineaustralia.com.au>. 


AUSTRALIAN GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS 


Zone - Region 


NEW SOUTH WALES 


Big Rivers - Murray Darling (NSW), Perricoota, Riverina, Swan Hill (NSW), Other 


Central Ranges - Cowra, Mudgee, Orange, Other 

Hunter Valley - Hunter, Other 

Northern Rivers - Hastings River, Other 

Northern Slopes - New England 

South Coast - Shoalhaven Coast, Southern Highlands, Other 

Southern New South Wales - Canberra District, Gundagai, Hilltops, Tumbarumba, Other 
Western Plains 


VICTORIA 


Central Victoria - Bendigo, Goulburn Valley, Heathcote, Strathbogie Ranges, Upper Goulburn, Other 
Gippsland 

North East Victoria - Alpine Valleys, Beechworth, Glenrowan, Rutherglen, Other 

North West Victoria - Murray Darling (Vic.), Swan Hill (Vic.), Other 

Port Phillip - Geelong, Macedon Ranges, Mornington Peninsula, Sunbury, Yarra Valley, Other 
Western Victoria - Grampians, Henty, Pyrenees, Other 


QUEENSLAND 


Queensland - Granite Belt, South Burnett, Other 


SOUTH AUSTRALIA 


Barossa - Barossa Valley, Eden Valley, Other 

Far North - Southern Flinders Ranges, Other 

Fleurieu - Currency Creek, Kangaroo Island, Langhorne Creek, McLaren Vale, Southern Fleurieu, Other 
Limestone Coast - Coonawarra, Mount Benson, Padthaway, Robe, Wrattonbully, Other 

Lower Murray - Riverland, Other 

Mount Lofty Ranges - Adelaide Hills, Adelaide Plains, Clare Valley, Other 

The Peninsulas 


WESTERN AUSTRALIA 


Central Western Australia 

Eastern Plains, Inland and North of Western Australia 

Greater Perth - Peel, Perth Hills, Swan Districts, Other 

South West Australia - Blackwood Valley, Geographe, Great Southern, Manjimup, Margaret River, Pemberton, 
Other 

West Australian South East Coastal 


TASMANIA 


Tasmania 


NORTHERN TERRITORY 


Northern Territory 


AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY 


Australian Capital Territory 


SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF WINE SURVEYS 


11 Winemakers who crush 50 tonnes or more of grapes are included in the Wine and Spirit 
Production collection. Wine production data are collected from these winemakers ona 
winery (location) basis to allow for state and regional data output. The grapes crushed by 
these wineries includes grapes owned by others and crushed on a commission or contract 


basis, often for wine producers who do not have their own crushing facilities. 


12 Winemakers who crush more than 400 tonnes of grapes are included in the Inventories 
of Australian Wine and Brandy collection. These details on inventories of Australian 
beverage wine by wine type are collected at 30 June. 


13 All inventories data are collected on an Australia-wide basis only and state figures are 
therefore not available. Inventories data collected from 1996 include all Australian-produced 
wines owned by these winemakers and held anywhere in Australia. In years previous to 
1996, inventories included only those Australian-produced wines held by winemakers on 
any of their own premises, regardless of ownership. This change in the measurement of 
inventories means that data for 1996 and later are not directly comparable with earlier years. 


14 It is possible that inventories data may vary slightly each year as new wineries, with 
either large or small inventories, come into the scope of the collection. In particular, the 
published (i.e. closing) inventories figures for any one year may not equate with the opening 
inventories for the following year. 


15 Winemakers with sales of 250,000 litres or more in either of the previous two years are 
included in the Sales of Australian Wine by Winemakers collection. All sales data are 
collected on an Australia-wide basis only and state figures are therefore not available. 


16 The wine content of products consisting of a mixture of wine and fruit juice, commonly 
known as ‘coolers’, is included in the appropriate wine category of the wine from which it is 
made, which is generally table wine. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


17 ABS publications draw extensively on information provided freely by individuals, 
businesses, governments and other organisations. Their continued cooperation is very 
much appreciated: without it, the wide range of statistics published by the ABS would not be 
available. Information received by the ABS is treated in strict confidence as required by the 
Census and Statistics Act 1905. 


ABS PUBLICATIONS 

18 Current publications and other products released by the ABS are available from the ABS 
web site <http:\\www.abs.gov.au>. The ABS also issues a daily Release Advice on the web 
site which details products to be released in the week ahead. The ABS may have other 


relevant data available on request. Inquiries should be made to the National Information and 
Referral Service on 1300 135 070. 


Bibliography 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


ABS PUBLICATIONS 


Australian Grape Crush and Wine Production, cat. no. 1329.0.55.003 
International Merchandise Trade, Australia, cat. no. 5422.0. 
Sales of Australian Wine and Brandy by Winemakers, cat. no. 8504.0. 


Vineyards Estimates, Australia, cat. no. 1329.0.55.002 


ABS COLLECTIONS AND DATABASES 
International Trade database. 

Inventories of Australian Wine and Brandy 
Sales of Australian Wine by Winemakers. 
Vineyards 


Wine and Spirit Production 


Glossary 


GLOSSARY 

Beverage wine 

Table, sparkling and fortified wine produced for direct consumption and not for distillation. 
Brandy 

The spirit obtained by the distillation of wine in such a manner as to ensure that the spirit 
possesses the taste, aroma and other characteristics generally attributed to brandy, in 
acordance with the requirements set out in the Schedule to this Standard. 


De-alcoholised wine 


Normally fermented wine in which the alcohol has been removed and which retains all other 
components. 


Distillation wine 

Wine used for the purpose of distillation into grape spirit. 

Domestic sales 

All sales of Australian produced wine by winemakers within the scope of the Sales of 
Australian Wine by Winemakers survey, whether they be wholesale or retail sales, or bulk 
sales to other wineries outside of the scope of the survey. Excluded are inter-winery sales, 


sales where the wine will be exported, sales to other winemakers with on-site crushing 
facilities, sales for ship and aircraft stores, sales of imported wine and the volume of 


imported wine blended with Australian wine sold domestically. 

Exports 

Exports of wine to overseas ports including sales made by exporters and wine producers. 
Feints and low wine 

Parts of the distillate which are not useable. 

Fortified wine 

Wine to which grape spirit has been added, thereby adding alcoholic strength and 
precluding further fermentation. Fortified wine must contain at least 150 millilitres/litre and 
not more than 200 millilitres/litre of ethanol at 20° Centigrade. 

Grafted/grafting 

The connection of two pieces of living plant tissue, so that they unite and grow as one plant. 
Grape spirit 

Alcohol spirit of vinous origin used in fortification or as a base for grape flavoured spirits. 
The spirit is obtained from the distillation of wine, by-products of winemaking or the 
fermented liquor of a mash of dried grapes and contains methanol in a proportion not 
exceeding 3 grams per litre at 20° Centigrade of the ethanol content. 


Imports cleared for home consumption 


Imported goods brought into the country for consumption or further processing, but 
excluding goods imported with the reasonable expectation of re-export within a limited time. 


Intended planting 


The area of vines, reported on the ABS Vineyards collection form, grape growers intend to 
plant or graft after the current harvest, but before the next harvest. 


Low alcohol wine 


Wine in which the alcohol content has been deliberately reduced or wine which has been 
produced with a lower alcohol level using either dilution or partial fermentation. 


Marc 

The residue of grape skins and seeds after the juice has been extracted. 

Table and other grapes 

This category refers to grape production that is not used for either winemaking or drying. 
Sparkling wine 


The product of complete or partial fermentation of wine with contained sugars that has 
become surcharged with carbon dioxide. 


Unfermented grape juice 


A sweet, clear, non-alcoholic liquid. Winemakers use the term to refer to must which has 
undergone clarification and stabilisation. 


Unfortified wine 


Table or sparkling wine which must contain at least 80 millilitres/litre of ethanol at 20° 
Centigrade. Unfortified wines rely solely on fermentation for their alcoholic strength. 


Abbreviations 
ABBREVIATIONS 
$b billion (thousand million) dollars 
$m million dollars 
ABS Australian Bureau of Statistics 
ACT Australian Capital Territory 
Aust. Australia 
cat. no. Catalogue number 
ha hectare 
L litre 
L al litres of alcohol 
NSW New South Wales 
NT Northern Territory 
Qld Queensland 
SA South Australia 
t tonne 
Tas. Tasmania 
Vic. Victoria 
WA Western Australia 


Publication (I-Note) - Publication 


This publication is being updated to correct State data in table 9 "Wine Production". No 
other changes to the publication have been made. 


© Commonwealth of Australia 


All data and other material produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) constitutes Commonwealth copyright administered by the ABS. 
The ABS reserves the right to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. Unless otherwise noted, all material on this website - 
except the ABS logo, the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, and any material protected by a trade mark - is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 2.5 Australia licence 


