area  handbook  series 

Albania 

a  country  study 


* 


Albania 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Raymond  Zickel  and 
Walter  R.  Iwaskiw 
Research  Completed 
April  1992 


On  the  cover:  Clock  tower,  mosque  of  Ethem  Bey  in  central 
Tirane 


Second  Edition,  First  Printing,  1994. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Albania  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Raymond  E.  Zickel  and  Walter  R.  Iwaskiw.  — 
2nd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  Pam  ;  550-98) 

"Research  completed  April  1992." 

"Supersedes  the  1970  edition  of  Area  handbook  for  Albania, 
coauthored  by  Eugene  K.  Keefe  et  al." — T.p.  verso. 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  251-262)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0792-5 

1.  Albania.    I.  Zickel,  Raymond  E.,  1934-    .  II.  Iwaskiw, 
Walter  R.,  1958-    .  III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research 
Division.  IV.  Area  handbook  for  Albania.  V.  Series.  VI.  Series: 
DA  Pam  ;  550-98. 
DR910.A347    1994  93-42885 
949.65— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-98 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  acknowledge  the  numerous  individuals  who  con- 
tributed to  the  preparation  of  this  edition  of  Albania:  A  Country  Study. 
The  work  of  Eugene  K.  Keefe,  Sarah  J.  Elpern,  William  Giloane, 
James  M.  Moore,  Jr.,  Stephen  Peters,  and  Eston  T.  White,  the 
co-authors  of  the  previous  edition  who  completed  their  research 
in  1970,  is  greatly  appreciated  as  both  substantive  and  useful.  Spe- 
cial thanks  go  to  Charles  Sudetic  for  expending  his  time  and  ener- 
gy to  take  the  many  interesting  photographs  from  which  those  in 
the  book  were  selected. 

The  authors  also  gratefully  acknowledge  Ralph  K.  Benesch  for  his 
oversight  of  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  for  the 
Department  of  the  Army  and  Sandra  W.  Meditz  of  the  Federal 
Research  Division  for  her  guidance  and  suggestions.  Special  thanks 
also  go  to  the  following  individuals:  Marilyn  L.  Majeska  for  review- 
ing editing  and  managing  production;  Andrea  T.  Merrill  for  editori- 
al assistance;  Teresa  E.  Kamp  for  cover  and  chapter  illustrations; 
David  P.  Cabitto  for  graphics  and  map  support;  Harriet  R.  Blood, 
together  with  the  firm  of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara,  for  prepara- 
tion of  the  maps;  Pirkko  M.  Johnes  for  researching  and  writing 
the  Country  Profile;  and  Helen  Fedor  for  preparing  photograph 
captions. 

Special  thanks  are  also  owed  to  Evan  A.  Raynes  and  Vincent 
Ercolano,  who  edited  the  chapters,  and  to  Barbara  Edgerton  and 
Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing.  Catherine  Schwartz- 
stein  performed  the  final  p  republication  editorial  review.  Joan  C. 
Cook  compiled  the  index,  and  Linda  Peterson  of  the  Library  of 
Congress  Printing  and  Processing  Section  prepared  the  camera- 
ready  copy,  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xiii 

Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events   xv 

Country  Profile    *  xxvii 

Introduction     XXXV 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting   1 

Charles  Sudetic 

THE  ANCIENT  ILLYRIANS    4 

THE  BARBARIAN  INVASIONS  AND  THE 

MIDDLE  AGES    7 

THE  ALBANIAN  LANDS  UNDER  OTTOMAN 

DOMINATION,  1385-1876    9 

The  Ottoman  Conquest  of  Albania   9 

Albanians  under  Ottoman  Rule    12 

Local  Albanian  Leaders  in  the  Early  Nineteenth 

Century   15 

NATIONAL  AWAKENING  AND  THE  BIRTH  OF 

ALBANIA,  1876-1918   16 

The  Rise  of  Albanian  Nationalism    17 

The  Balkan  Wars  and  Creation  of  Independent 

Albania    21 

World  War  I  and  Its  Effects  on  Albania   23 

INTERWAR  ALBANIA,  1918-41   1  .  .  24 

Albania's  Reemergence  after  World  War  I    24 

Social  and  Economic  Conditions  after  World  War  I  .  .  26 

Government  and  Politics    27 

Italian  Penetration   29 

Zog's  Kingdom    31 

Italian  Occupation  »  .  32 

WORLD  WAR  II  AND  THE  RISE  OF  COMMUNISM, 

1941-44    33 

The  Communist  and  Nationalist  Resistance   34 

The  Communist  Takeover  of  Albania   36 


vii 


COMMUNIST  ALBANIA    37 

Consolidation  of  Power  and  Initial  Reforms    38 

Albanian-Yugoslav  Tensions    40 

Deteriorating  Relations  with  the  West   43 

Albania  and  the  Soviet  Union   44 

Albania  and  China    46 

The  Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution    49 

The  Break  with  China  and  Self-Reliance    50 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  55 

Walter  R.  Iwaskiw 

PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT    57 

National  Boundaries    57 

Topography   59 

Drainage    63 

Climate    64 

THE  ALBANIAN  PEOPLE    66 

Population    66 

Ethnicity    66 

Languages  and  Dialects   70 

Settlement  Patterns    74 

SOCIAL  SYSTEM    74 

Traditional  Social  Patterns  and  Values    74 

Social  Structure  under  Communist  Rule   77 

RELIGION    82 

Before  1944    82 

Hoxha's  Antireligious  Campaign   85 

The  Revival  of  Religion    87 

EDUCATION    87 

Precommunist  Era   87 

Education  under  Communist  Rule    91 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   94 

Medical  Care  and  Nutrition    94 

Housing   96 

Social  Insurance    98 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    101 

Charles  Sudetic 

ECONOMIC  POLICY  AND  PERFORMANCE   105 

The  Precommunist  Albanian  Economy    106 

Imposition  of  the  Stalinist  System    107 

Dependence  on  Yugoslavia,  1945-48    108 

Dependence  on  the  Soviet  Union,  1948-60    109 


viii 


Dependence  on  China,  1961-78    Ill 

Isolation  and  Autarky    114 

ECONOMIC  SYSTEM    118 

Governmental  Bodies  and  Control    118 

Ownership  and  Private  Property    120 

Enterprises  and  Firms    121 

Finance  and  Banking   122 

Currency  and  Monetary  Policy    124 

Government  Revenues  and  Expenditures    124 

Savings    125 

WORK  FORCE  AND  STANDARD  OF  LIVING    126 

Prices  and  Wages    126 

Domestic  Consumption    128 

Standard  of  Living    128 

Population  and  Work  Force    130 

Women  in  the  Work  Force   132 

Trade  Unions    132 

AGRICULTURE    133 

The  Land    133 

Land  Distribution  and  Agricultural 

Organization    134 

Structure  and  Marketing  of  Agricultural  Output   136 

Livestock  and  Pasturelands    137 

Mechanization   138 

Fertilizers,  Pesticides,  and  Seeds    138 

Forests   139 

Fisheries    139 

INDUSTRY    140 

Energy  and  Natural  Resources    140 

Manufacturing   146 

Construction    149 

Environmental  Problems    150 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  COMMUNICATIONS    150 

Road  Transportation    151 

Railroads    152 

Air  Transportation    152 

Water  Transportation    152 

Telecommunications    155 

RETAIL  TRADE,  SERVICES,  AND  TOURISM    156 

Refail  Trade  and  Services    156 

Black  Market   158 

Tourism   158 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   159 

Foreign  Trade  Organization    159 


ix 


Foreign  Trade  Balance  and  Balance  of  Payments   ....  162 

Trade  Partners    162 

Commodity  Pattern  of  Trade    164 

Activities  of  Foreign  Companies  in  Albania    165 

Foreign  Assistance    166 

PROSPECTS  FOR  REFORM    166 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    169 

Amy  Knight 

ORIGINS  OF  THE  POLITICAL  SYSTEM    172 

Albania  after  World  War  II    172 

The  Hoxha  Regime   173 

Alia  Takes  Over    174 

ALBANIA'S  COMMUNIST  PARTY    175 

THE  GOVERNMENT  APPARATUS   178 

People's  Assembly    178 

Council  of  Ministers  and  People's  Councils    178 

Courts    179 

MASS  ORGANIZATIONS    179 

Democratic  Front    180 

Union  of  Albanian  Working  Youth   180 

Union  of  Albanian  Women    181 

United  Trade  Unions  of  Albania   181 

MASS  MEDIA    181 

REFORM  POLITICS   182 

Initial  Stages    182 

Human  Rights   184 

Further  Moves  Toward  Democracy   185 

Multiparty  System   187 

The  Coalition  Government  of  1991    189 

FOREIGN  POLICY    191 

Shifting  Alliances   192 

Changes  in  the  1980s    194 

Alia's  Pragmatism    195 

Albania  Seeks  New  Allies    197 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    201 

Karl  Wheeler  Soper 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES    204 

From  Independence  to  World  War  II    206 

World  War  II    208 

Postwar  Development    209 

EVOLUTION  OF  NATIONAL  SECURITY  POLICY   211 


x 


DEFENSE  ORGANIZATION    215 

Political  Control   217 

People's  Army    219 

Military  Manpower    223 

Military  Budget  and  the  Economy   226 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    227 

Domestic  Repression  under  Hoxha  and  Alia    227 

Security  Forces   231 

Appendix.  Tables    241 

Bibliography    251 

Glossary   263 

Index    271 

Contributors   285 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Albania,  1992   xxxiv 

2  Illyria  under  Roman  Rule,  First  Century  B.C   6 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    62 

4  Distribution  of  Ethnic  Albanians  on  the  Balkan 

Peninsula,  1992    70 

5  Population  Density  by  District,  1955    72 

6  Population  Density  by  District,  1988   73 

7  Transportation  System,  1992    154 


xi 


Preface 


Preparation  of  this  edition  of  Albania:  A  Country  Study  began  as 
popular  revolutions  were  drastically  altering  the  political  and  eco- 
nomic systems  of  the  communist  countries  of  Eastern  Europe.  In 
Albania  extreme  isolation  and  Stalinist  policies  slowed,  but  could 
not  stop,  the  revolution  that  striking  workers  and  irate  citizens 
directed  against  the  regime.  In  early  1992,  the  Albanian  people 
forced  the  communist  government's  fall,  ushering  in  a  long-term 
transition  from  totalitarianism  toward  democracy  and  from  a  cen- 
tralized command  economy  to  one  based  on  a  private  market. 

The  uncertainty  of  both  the  process  and  the  outcome  of  the  tran- 
sition make  descriptions  of  the  changing  structures  of  government, 
economy,  and  society  somewhat  tentative  in  nature.  The  authors 
have  attempted  to  describe  the  existing,  but  possibly  transitional 
structures,  using  scholarly  materials,  which  even  from  Western 
sources  are  very  limited.  Such  descriptions  can  form  a  sound  basis 
for  readers  to  understand  the  ongoing  events  and  assess  change 
in  Albania.  The  most  useful  source's  are  cited  by  the  authors  at 
the  end  of  each  chapter.  Full  references  to  these  and  other  sources 
are  listed  in  the  Bibliography.  A  Country  Profile  and  a  Chronology 
are  also  included  in  the  book  as  reference  aids. 

Transliteration  of  Albanian  personal  names  and  terms  generally 
follows  the  Library  of  Congress  transliteration  system.  Transliter- 
ation of  place-names,  however,  follows  the  system  developed  by 
the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names.  In  the  ecclesiasti- 
cal context,  preference  is  given  to  the  generic  term  Orthodox,  rather 
than  Eastern  Orthodox.  The  term  Greek  Orthodox  (like  Serbian  Orthodox 
or  Albanian  Orthodox)  is  used  to  designate  ethnic  affiliation,  not  histor- 
ical background.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system; 
a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  readers  unfamiliar  with  that 
system  (see  table  1,  Appendix). 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  April 
1992.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been  up- 
dated: the  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have  oc- 
curred since  the  information  cutoff  date;  the  Chronology  and  the 
Country  Profile  include  updated  information  as  available;  and  the 
Bibliography  lists  recently  published  sources  thought  to  be  particu- 
larly helpful  to  the  reader. 


Xlll 


Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period 


Description 


ca.1000  B.C. 

358  B.C. 
312  B.C. 

229  B.C.  and  219  B.C. 
165  B.C. 

FIRST  CENTURY  A.D. 
A.D.  9 

A.D.  395 


FOURTH  CENTURY- 
SEVENTH  CENTURY 


732 
1054 

1081 

TWELFTH  CENTURY 
1204 

1272 
1385 


Illyrians,  descendants  of  ancient  Indo-European  peo- 
ples, setde  in  western  part  of  the  Balkan  Penin- 
sula. 

Illyrians  defeated  by  Philip  II  of  Macedonia. 

King  Glaucius  of  Illyria  expels  Greeks  from  Durres. 

Roman  soldiers  overrun  Illyrian  setdements  in  Ne- 
retva  River  valley. 

Roman  forces  capture  Illyria's  King  Gentius  at  Shko- 
der. 

Christianity  comes  to  Illyrian  populated  areas. 

Romans,  under  Emperor  Tiberius,  subjugate  Illy- 
rians and  divide  present-day  Albania  between  Dal- 
matia,  Epirus,  and  Macedonia. 

Roman  Empire  is  division  into  eastern  and  western 
parts  leaves  the  lands  that  now  comprise  Albania 
administratively  under  the  Eastern  Empire  but 
ecclesiastically  under  Rome. 

Goths,  Huns,  Avars,  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Bulgars  suc- 
cessively invade  Illyrian  lands  in  present-day  Al- 
bania. 

Illyrian  people  subordinated  to  the  patriarchate  of 
Constantinople  by  the  Byzantine  emperor,  Leo 
the  Isaurian. 

Christianity  divides  into  Catholic  and  Orthodox 
churches,  leaving  Christians  in  southern  Albania 
under  ecumenical  patriarch  of  Constantinople  and 
those  in  northern  Albania  under  pope  in  Rome. 

Albania  and  Albanians  mentioned,  for  the  first  time 
in  a  historical  record,  by  Byzantine  emperor. 

Serbs  occupy  parts  of  northern  and  eastern  Albania. 

Venice  wins  control  over  most  of  Albania,  but  Byzan* 
tines  regain  control  of  southern  portion  and  estab- 
lish Despotate  of  Epirus. 

Forces  of  the  King  of  Naples  occupy  Durres  and  es- 
tablish an  Albanian  kingdom. 

Albanian  ruler  of  Durres  invites  Ottoman  forces  to 
intervene  against  a  rival;  subsequently,  Albanian 
clans  pay  tribute  and  swear  fealty  to  Ottomans. 


XV 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


1389 


At  Kosovo  Polje,  Albanians  join  Serbian-led  Balkan 
army  that  is  crushed  by  Ottoman  forces;  coordi- 
nated resistance  to  Ottoman  westward  progress 
evaporates. 


1403 


Gjergj  Kastrioti  born,  later  becomes  Albanian  na- 
tional hero  known  as  Skanderbeg. 


1443 


After  losing  a  battle  near  Nis,  Skanderbeg  defects 
from  Ottoman  Empire,  reembraces  Roman  Cathol- 
icism, and  begins  holy  war  against  the  Ottomans. 


1444 
1449 


Skanderbeg  proclaimed  chief  of  Albanian  resistance. 

Albanians,  under  Skanderbeg,  rout  Ottoman  forces 
under  Sultan  Murad  II. 


1468 
1478 


Skanderbeg  dies. 

Kruje  falls  to  Ottoman  Turks;  Shkoder  falls  a  year 
later.  Subsequently,  many  Albanians  flee  to  south- 
ern Italy,  Greece,  Egypt,  and  elsewhere;  many 
remaining  are  forced  to  convert  to  Islam. 


EARLY  SEVENTEENTH 
CENTURY 


Some  Albanians  who  convert  to  Islam  find  careers 
in  Ottoman  Empire's  government  and  military 
service. 


SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY-     About  two-thirds  of  Albanians  convert  to  Islam. 
EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 


1785 


Kara  Mahmud  Bushati,  chief  of  Albanian  tribe  based 
in  Shkoder,  attacks  Montenegrin  territory;  subse- 
quently named  governor  of  Shkoder  by  Ottoman 
authorities. 


NINETEENTH  AND 

TWENTIETH  CENTURIES 


1822 


Albanian  leader  Ali  Pasha  of  Tepelene  assassinated 
by  Ottoman  agents  for  promoting  an  autonomous 
state. 


1830 


1,000  Albanian  leaders  invited  to  meet  with  Ottoman 
general  who  kills  about  half  of  them. 


1835 


Ottoman  Sublime  Porte  divides  Albanian-populated 
lands  into  vilayets  of  Janina  and  Rumelia  with  Ot- 
toman administrators. 


1861 


First  school  known  to  use  Albanian  language  in  mod- 
ern times  opens  in  Shkoder. 


XVI 


Table  A. — Continued 


Period  Description 

1877-78  Russia's  defeat  of  Ottoman  Empire  seriously  weakens 

Ottoman  power  over  Albanian-populated  areas. 

1878  Treaty  of  San  Stefano,  signed  after  the  Russo-Turk- 

ish  War,  assigned  Albanian-populated  lands  to 
Bulgaria,  Montenegro,  and  Serbia;  but  Austria- 
Hungary  and  Britain  block  the  treaty's  implemen- 
tation. Albanian  leaders  meet  in  Prizren,  Kosovo, 
to  form  the  Prizren  League,  initially  advocating  a 
unified  Albania  under  Ottoman  suzerainty.  Congress 
of  Berlin  overturns  the  Treaty  of  San  Stefano  but 
places  some  Albanian  lands  under  Montenegrin 
and  Serbian  rule.  The  Prizren  League  begins  to 
organize  resistance  to  the  Treaty  of  Berlin's  provisions 
that  affect  Albanians. 


1879 


Society  for  Printing  of  Albanian  Writings,  composed 
of  Roman  Catholic,  Muslim,  and  Orthodox  Al- 
banians, founded  in  Constantinople. 


1881 


Ottoman  forces  crush  Albanian  resistance  fighters  at 
Prizren.  Prizren  League's  leaders  and  families  ar- 
rested and  deported. 


1897 


Ottoman  authorities  disband  a  reactivated  Prizren 
League,  execute  its  leader  later,  then  ban  Albanian 
language  books. 


1906 


Albanians  begin  joining  the  Committee  of  Union 
and  Progress  (Young  Turks),  which  formed  in  Con- 
stantinople, hoping  to  gain  autonomy  for  their  na- 
tion within  the  Ottoman  Empire. 


1908 


Albanian  intellectuals  meet  in  Bitola  and  choose  the 
Latin  alphabet  as  standard  script  rather  than  Arabic 
or  Cyrillic. 


1912  May 


Albanians  rise  against  the  Ottoman  authorities  and 
seize  Skopje. 


October 


First  Balkan  War  begins,  and  Albanian  leaders  af- 
firm Albania  as  an  independent  state. 


November 


Muslim  and  Christian  delegates  at  Vlore  declare  Alba- 
nia independent  and  establish  a  provisional  gov- 
ernment. 


December 


Ambassadorial  conference  opens  in  London  and  dis- 
cusses Albania's  fate. 


1913  May 


Treaty  of  London  ends  First  Balkan  War.  Second 
Balkan  War  begins. 


xvii 


Table  A. — Continued 


Period 


Description 


August 
1914  March 

September 

1918  November 

December 

1919  January 
June 

1920  January 

February 

September 

December 

1921  November 


Treaty  of  Bucharest  ends  Second  Balkan  War.  Great 
Powers  recognize  an  independent  Albanian  state 
ruled  by  a  constitutional  monarchy. 

Prince  Wilhelm,  German  army  captain,  installed  as 
head  of  the  new  Albanian  state  by  the  International 
Control  Commission,  arrives  in  Albania. 

New  Albanian  state  collapses  following  outbreak  of 
World  War  I;  Prince  Wilhelm  is  stripped  of  authori- 
ty and  departs  from  Albania. 

World  War  I  ends,  with  Italian  army  occupying  most 
of  Albania  and  Serbian,  Greek,  and  French  force  oc- 
cupying remainder.  Italian  and  Yugoslav  powers  be- 
gin struggle  for  dominance  over  Albanians. 

Albanian  leaders  meet  at  Durres  to  discuss  presenta- 
tion of  Albania's  interests  at  the  Paris  Peace  Con- 
ference. 

Serbs  attack  Albania's  inhabited  cities.  Albanians  adopt 
guerrilla  warfare. 

Albania  denied  official  representation  at  the  Paris  Peace 
Conference;  British,  French,  and  Greek  negotiators 
later  decide  to  divide  Albania  among  Greece,  Italy, 
and  Yugoslavia. 

Albanian  leaders  meeting  at  Lushnje*  reject  the  parti- 
tioning of  Albania  by  the  Treaty  of  Paris,  warn  that 
Albanians  will  take  up  arms  in  defense  of  their  terri- 
tory, and  create  a  bicameral  parliament. 

Albanian  government  moves  to  Tirane,  which  becomes 
the  capital. 

Albania  forces  Italy  to  withdraw  its  troops  and  aban- 
don territorial  claims  to  almost  all  Albanian  territory. 

Albania  admitted  to  League  of  Nations  as  sovereign  and 
independent  state. 

Yugoslav  troops  invade  Albanian  territories  they  had 
not  previously  occupied;  League  of  Nations  commis- 
sion forces  Yugoslav  withdrawal  and  reaffirms  Alba- 
nia's 1913  borders. 


December 


Popular  Party,  headed  by  Xhafer  Ypi,  forms  govern- 
ment with  Ahmed  Zogu,  the  future  King  Zog,  as  in- 
ternal affairs  minister. 


1922  August 


Ecumenical  patriarch  in  Constantinople  recognizes  the 
Autocephalous  Albanian  Orthodox  Church. 


XV111 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


September 


Zogu  assumes  position  of  prime  minister  of  government; 
opposition  to  him  becomes  formidable. 


1923 


Albania's  Sunni  Muslims  break  last  ties  with  Constan- 
tinople and  pledge  primary  allegiance  to  native 
country. 


1924  March 


Zogu's  party  wins  elections  for  National  Assembly,  but 
Zogu  steps  down  after  financial  scandal  and  an  as- 
sassination attempt. 


July 


A  peasant-backed  insurgency  wins  control  of  Tirane; 
Fan  S.  Noli  becomes  prime  minister;  Zogu  flees  to 
Yugoslavia. 


December 


Zogu,  backed  by  Yugoslav  army,  returns  to  power  and 
begins  to  smother  parliamentary  democracy;  Noli 
flees  to  Italy. 


1925  May 


Italy,  under  Mussolini,  begins  penetration  of  Albani- 
an public  and  economic  life. 


1926  November 


Italy  and  Albania  sign  First  Treaty  of  Tirane,  which 
guarantees  Zogu's  political  position  and  Albania's 
boundaries. 


1928  August 


Zogu  pressures  the  parliament  to  dissolve  itself;  a  new 
constituent  assembly  declares  Albania  a  kingdom  and 
Zogu  becomes  Zog  I,  "King  of  the  Albanians." 


1931 


Zog,  standing  up  to  Italians,  refuses  to  renew  the  First 
Treaty  of  Tirane;  Italians  continue  political  and  eco- 
nomic pressure. 


1934 


After  Albania  signs  trade  agreements  with  Greece  and 
Yugoslavia,  Italy  suspends  economic  support,  then 
attempts  to  threaten  Albania. 


1935 


Mussolini  presents  a  gift  of  3,000,000  gold  francs  to  Al- 
bania; other  economic  aid  follows. 


1939  April 


Mussolini's  troops  invade  and  occupy  Albania;  Alba- 
nian parliament  votes  to  unite  country  with  Italy;  Zog 
flees  to  Greece;  Italy's  King  Victor  Emmanual  III 
assumes  Albanian  crown. 


1940  October 

1941  April 


Italian  army  attacks  Greece  through  Albania. 

Germany,  with  support  of  Italy  and  other  allies  defeat 
Greece  and  Yugoslavia. 


XIX 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


October 
November 

1942  September 
October 

1943  August 


Josip  Broz  Tito,  Yugoslav  communist  leader,  directs 
organizing  of  Albanian  communists. 

Albanian  Communist  Party  founded;  Enver  Hoxha  be- 
comes first  secretary. 

Communist  party  organizes  the  National  Liberation 
Movement,  a  popular  front  resistance  organization. 

Noncommunist  nationalist  groups  form  to  resist  the 
Italian  occupation. 

Italy's  surrender  to  Allied  forces  weakens  Italian  hold 
on  Albania;  Albanian  resistance  fighters  overwhelm 
five  Italian  divisions. 


September 
1944  January 

May 


German  forces  invade  and  occupy  Albania. 

Communist  partisans,  supplied  with  British  weapons, 
gain  control  of  southern  Albania. 

Communists  meet  to  organize  an  Albanian  government; 
Hoxha  becomes  chairman  of  executive  committee  and 
supreme  commander  of  the  Army  of  National 
Liberation. 


July 
October 

November 

December 

1945  January 


April 
August 


Communist  forces  enter  central  and  northern  Albania. 

Communists  establish  provisional  government  with 
Hoxha  as  prime  minister. 

Germans  withdraw  from  Tirane,  communists  move  into 
the  capital. 

Communist  provisional  government  adopts  laws  allow- 
ing state  regulation  of  commercial  enterprises,  for- 
eign and  domestic  trade. 

Communist  provisional  government  agrees  to  restore 
Kosovo  to  Yugoslavia  as  an  autonomous  region; 
tribunals  begin  to  condemn  thousands  of  "war  crimi- 
nals" and  "enemies  of  the  people"  to  death  or  to  prison. 
Communist  regime  begins  to  nationalize  industry,  trans- 
portation, forests,  pastures. 

Yugoslavia  recognizes  communist  government  in 
Albania. 

Sweeping  agricultural  reforms  begin;  about  half  of  ara- 
ble land  eventually  redistributed  to  peasants  from 
large  landowners;  most  church  properties  national- 
ized. United  Nations  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Ad- 
ministration begins  sending  supplies  to  Albania. 


XX 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


November 


Soviet  Union  recognizes  provisional  government;  Brit- 
ain and  United  States  make  full  diplomatic  recogni- 
tion conditional. 


December 


In  elections  for  the  People's  Assembly  only  candidates 
from  the  Democratic  Front  are  on  ballot. 


1946  January 


Spring 


July 


People's  Assembly  proclaims  Albania  a  "people's 
republic";  purges  of  noncommunists  from  positions 
of  power  in  government  begin. 

People's  Assembly  adopts  new  constitution,  Hoxha  be- 
comes prime  minister,  foreign  minister,  defense 
minister,  and  commander  in  chief;  Soviet-style  cen- 
tral planning  begins. 

Treaty  of  friendship  and  cooperation  signed  with  Yu- 
goslavia; Yugoslav  advisers  and  grain  begin  pouring 
into  Albania. 


October 


November 


British  destroyers  hit  mines  off  Albania's  coast;  Unit- 
ed Nations  (UN)  and  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  subsequently  condemn  Albania. 

Albania  breaks  diplomatic  relations  with  the  United 
States  after  latter  withdraws  its  informal  mission. 


1947  April 


May 


July 

1948  February-March 
June 


Economic  Planning  Commission  draws  up  first  econom- 
ic plan  that  establishes  production  targets  for  min- 
ing, manufacturing  and  agricultural  enterprises. 

UN  commission  concludes  that  Albania,  together  with 
Bulgaria  and  Yugoslavia,  supports  communist  guer- 
rillas in  Greece;  Yugoslav  leaders  launch  verbal  offen- 
sive against  anti-Yugoslav  Albanian  communists, 
including  Hoxha;  pro- Yugoslav  faction  begins  to 
wield  power. 

Albania  refuses  participation  in  the  Marshall  Plan  of 
the  United  States. 

Albanian  Communist  Party  leaders  vote  to  merge  Al- 
banian and  Yugoslav  economies  and  militaries. 

Cominform  expels  Yugoslavia;  Albanian  leaders  launch 
anti- Yugoslav  propaganda  campaign,  cut  economic 
ties,  and  force  Yugoslav  advisers  to  leave;  Stalin  be- 
comes national  hero  in  Albania. 


September 


Hoxha  begins  purging  high-ranking  party  members  ac- 
cused of  "Titoism";  treaty  of  friendship  with  Yugo- 
slavia abrogated  by  Albania;  Soviet  Union  begins 
giving  economic  aid  to  Albania  and  Soviet  advisers 
replace  ousted  Yugoslavs. 


XXI 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


November 

1949  January 
February 


First  Party  Congress  changes  name  of  Albanian  Com- 
munist Party  to  Albanian  Party  of  Labor. 

Regime  issues  Decree  on  Religious  Communities. 

Albania  joins  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(Comecon);  all  foreign  trade  conducted  with  mem- 
ber countries. 


1950 


December 


Pro-Tito  Albanian  communists  purged. 

Britain  and  United  States  begin  inserting  anticom- 
munist  Albanian  guerrilla  units  into  Albania;  all  are 
unsuccessful. 


July 


A  new  constitution  is  approved  by  People's  Assembly. 
Hoxha  becomes  minister  of  defense  and  foreign 
minister. 


1951  February 

1954  July 

1955  May 

1956  February 


Albania  and  Soviet  Union  sign  agreement  on  mutual 
economic  assistance. 

Hoxha  relinquishes  post  of  prime  minister  to  Mehmet 
Shehu  but  retains  primary  power  as  party  leader. 

Albania  becomes  a  founding  member  of  the  Warsaw 
Pact. 

After  Nikita  Khrushchev's  "secret  speech"  exposes  Sta- 
lin's crimes,  Hoxha  defends  Stalin;  close  relations  with 
Soviet  Union  become  strained. 


1959 


Large  amounts  of  economic  aid  from  Soviet  Union,  East 
European  countries,  and  China  begin  pouring  into 
Albania. 


May 
1960  June 


November 


1961  February 


December 


Khrushchev  visits  Albania. 

Albania  sides  with  China  in  Sino-Soviet  ideological  dis- 
pute; consequendy,  Soviet  economic  support  to  Al- 
bania is  curtailed  and  Chinese  aid  is  increased. 

Hoxha  rails  against  Khrushchev  and  supports  China 
during  an  international  communist  conference  in 
Moscow. 

Hoxha  harangues  against  the  Soviet  Union  and  Yugo- 
slavia at  Albania's  Fourth  Party  Congress. 

Soviet  Union  breaks  diplomatic  relations;  other  East 
European  countries  severely  reduce  contacts  but  do 
not  break  relations;  Albania  looks  toward  China  for 
support. 


XXII 


Table  A. — Continued 


Period 


Description 


1962 


Albanian  regime  introduces  austerity  program  in  at- 
tempt to  compensate  for  withdrawal  of  Soviet  eco- 
nomic support;  China  incapable  of  delivering 
sufficient  aid;  Albania  becomes  China's  spokesman 
at  UN. 


1964 

1966  February 
March 


Hoxha  hails  Khrushchev's  removal  as  leader  of  the 
Soviet  Union;  diplomatic  relations  fail  to  improve. 

Hoxha  initiates  Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution. 

Albanian  Party  of  Labor  "open  letter"  to  the  people 
establishes  egalitarian  wage  and  job  structure  for  all 
workers. 


1967 


Hoxha  regime  conducts  violent  campaign  to  extinguish 
religious  life  in  Albania;  by  year's  end  over  two  thou- 
sand religious  buildings  were  closed  or  converted  to 
other  uses.  * 


1968 


1976 


1977 


August 

September 

December 


1978  July 


Albania  condemns  Soviet-led  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia; 
subsequently,  Albania  withdraws  from  Warsaw  Pact. 

Hoxha  begins  criticizing  new  Chinese  regime  after  Mao's 
death. 

A  new  constitution  promulgated  superceeding  the  1950 
version;  Albania  becomes  a  people's  socialist  republic. 

Top  military  officials  purged  after  "Chinese  conspira- 
cy" is  uncovered. 

China  terminates  all  economic  and  military  aid  to 
Albania. 


1980 


1981  December 


Hoxha  selects  Ramiz  Alia  as  the  next  party  head,  bypass- 
ing Shehu. 

Shehu,  after  rebuke  by  Politburo,  dies,  possibly  mur- 
dered on  Hoxha' s  orders. 


1982  November 


Alia  becomes  chairman  of  Presidium  of  the  People's  As- 
sembly. 


1983 


Hoxha  begins  semiretirement;  Alia  starts  administering 
Albania. 


1985 
1986 


April 

November 


Hoxha  dies. 

Alia  featured  as  party's  and  country's  undisputed  lead- 
er at  Ninth  Party  Congress. 


1987  August 


Greece  ends  state  of  war  that  existed  since  World  War  II. 


xxiii 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


November 


Albania  and  Greece  sign  a  series  of  long-term  agree- 
ments. 


1989  September 


Alia,  addressing  the  Eighth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Com- 
mittee, signals  that  radical  changes  to  the  economic 
system  are  necessary. 


1990  January 


Ninth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Committee;  demonstra- 
tions at  Shkoder  force  authorities  to  declare  state  of 
emergency. 


April 


Alia  declares  willingness  to  establish  diplomatic  rela- 
tions with  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  United  States. 


May 
May 


The  Secretary  General  of  the  UN  visits  Albania. 

Regime  announces  desire  to  join  the  Conference  on 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe.  People's  As- 
sembly passes  laws  liberalizing  criminal  code,  reform- 
ing court  system,  lifting  some  restrictions  on  freedom 
of  worship,  and  guaranteeing  the  right  to  travel 
abroad. 


Summer 


Unemployment  throughout  the  economy  increases  as 
a  result  of  government's  reform  measures;  drought 
reduces  electric-power  production,  forcing  plant 
shutdowns. 


July 


Young  people  demonstrate  against  regime  in  Tirane, 
and  5,000  citizens  seek  refuge  in  foreign  embassies; 
Central  Committee  plenum  makes  significant  changes 
in  leadership  of  party  and  state.  Soviet  Union  and 
Albania  sign  protocol  normalizing  relations. 


August 


Government  abandons  its  monopoly  on  foreign  com- 
merce and  begins  to  open  Albania  to  foreign  trade. 


September 
October 


Alia  addresses  the  UN  General  Assembly  in  New  York. 

Tirane  hosts  the  Balkan  Foreign  Ministers'  Conference, 
the  first  international  political  meeting  in  Albania 
since  the  end  of  World  War  II.  Ismail  Kadare,  Al- 
bania's most  prominent  writer,  defects  to  France. 


December 


University  students  demonstrate  in  streets  and  call  for 
dictatorship  to  end;  Alia  meets  with  students;  Thir- 
teenth Plenum  of  the  Central  Committee  of  the  APL 
authorizes  a  multiparty  system;  Albanian  Democratic 
Party,  first  opposition  party  established;  regime 
authorizes  political  pluralism;  draft  constitution  is 
published;  by  year's  end,  5,000  Albanian  refugees 
had  crossed  the  mountains  into  Greece. 


XXIV 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


1991  January 


First  opposition  newspaper  Rilindja  Demokratike  begins 
publishing.  Thousands  of  Albanians  seek  refuge  in 
Greece. 


March 


Albania  and  the  United  States  reestablish  diplomatic 
relations  after  a  thirty-five-year  break.  Thousands 
more  Albanians  attempt  to  gain  asylum  in  Italy. 


March-April 


First  multiparty  elections  held  since  the  1920s;  98.9  per- 
cent of  voters  participate;  Albanian  Party  of  Labor 
wins  over  67  percent  of  vote  for  People's  Assembly 
seats;  Albanian  Democratic  Party  wins  about  30 
percent. 


April 


Communist-dominated  People's  Assembly  reelects  Alia 
to  new  presidential  term.  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs 
replaced  by  Ministry  of  Public  Order;  Frontier 
Guards  and  Directorate  of  Prison  Administration  are 
placed  under  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  the  Minis- 
try of  Justice,  respectively.  People's  Assembly  pass- 
es Law  on  Major  Constitutional  Provisions  providing 
for  fundamental  human  rights  and  separation  of  pow- 
ers and  invalidates  1976  constitution.  People's  As- 
sembly appoints  commission  to  draft  new  constitution. 


Prime  Minister  Nano  and  rest  of  cabinet  resign  after 
trade  unions  call  for  general  strike  to  protest  worsen- 
ing economic  conditions  and  killing  of  opposition  dem- 
onstrators in  Shkoder.  Coalition  government  led  by 
Prime  Minister  Ylli  Bufi  takes  office;  Tenth  Party  Con- 
gress of  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  meets  and  re- 
names party  the  Socialist  Party  of  Albania  (SPA); 
Albania  accepted  as  a  full  member  of  CSC E;  United 
States  secretary  of  state,  James  A.  Baker,  visits  Albania. 


July 

August 


Sigurimi,  notorious  secret  police,  is  abolished  and 
replaced  by  National  Information  Service. 

Up  to  18,000  Albanians  cross  the  Adriatic  Sea  to  seek 
asylum  in  Italy;  most  are  returned.  People's  Assem- 
bly passes  law  on  economic  activity  that  authorizes 
private  ownership  of  property,  privatizing  of  state 
property,  investment  by  foreigners,  and  private  em- 
ployment of  workers. 


October 


United  States  Embassy  opens  in  Tirane.  Albania  joins 
International  Monetary  Fund. 


December 


Coalition  government  dissolves  when  opposition  par- 
ties accuse  communists  of  blocking  reform  and  Al- 
banian Democratic  Party  withdraws  its  ministers  from 
the  cabinet.  Prime  Minister  Bufi  resigns  and  Alia 
names  Vilson  Ahmeti  as  prime  minister.  Alia  sets 
March  1992  for  new  elections. 


XXV 


Table  A. — Continued 


Period 


Description 


1992  February 

March 

April 
June 

July 

September 

December 

1993  March 
April 
May 

July 

September 


October 


November 


Albanian  People's  Assembly  prevents  OMONIA,  the 
party  representing  Greek  Albanians,  from  fielding 
candidates  in  the  elections  planned  for  March. 

Albanian  Democratic  Party  scores  decisive  election  vic- 
tory over  the  Socialist  Party  of  Albania  in  the  midst 
of  economic  freefall  and  social  chaos. 

Sali  Berisha,  a  leader  of  the  Albanian  Democratic  Party, 
elected  president. 

Albania  signs  Black  Sea  economic  cooperation  pact  with 
ten  other  countries,  including  six  former  Soviet 
republics. 

Socialist  Party  of  Albania  gains  significantly  in  nation- 
wide local  elections. 

Former  President  Alia  and  eighteen  other  former  com- 
munist officials,  including  Nexhmije  Hoxha,  arrest- 
ed and  charged  with  corruption  and  other  offenses. 

Albania  joins  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Con- 
ference. 

Secretary  General  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organi- 
zation (NATO)  visits  Tirane. 

Albania  recognizes  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia. 

President  Berisha  urges  NATO  to  intervene  militarily 
in  Kosovo. 

Fatos  Nano,  chairman  of  the  Socialist  Party  of  Alba- 
nia and  former  prime  minister,  arrested  and  charged 
with  corruption. 

President  Berisha  and  President  Momir  Bulatovic  of 
Montenegro  meet  in  Tirane  to  discuss  ways  of  im- 
proving Albanian-Montenegrin  relations. 

Socialist  Party  of  Albania  loses  many  votes  to  Albanian 
Democratic  Party  in  local  elections  in  Dibre  district. 

Greece  recalls  its  ambassador  for  consultations  after  se- 
ries of  border  incidents  and  alleged  human  rights 
abuses  in  Albania. 

Israel's  foreign  minister  makes  first  official  visit  to 
Tirane. 


XXVI 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Albania. 
Short  Form:  Albania. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Albanian(s). 
Capital:  Tirane. 

Date  of  Independence:  November  28,  1912,  national  holiday 
celebrated  as  Liberation  Day. 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


xxvii 


Geography 

Size:  28,750  square  kilometers  (land  area  27,400  square  kilome- 
ters); slightly  larger  than  Maryland. 

Location:  Southeastern  coast  of  Adriatic  Sea  and  eastern  part  of 
Strait  of  Otranto,  opposite  heel  of  Italian  boot;  between  approxi- 
mately 40°  and  43°  north  latitude. 

Topography:  A  little  over  20  percent  coastal  plain,  some  of  it  poorly 
drained.  Mostly  hills  and  mountains,  often  covered  with  scrub 
forest.  Only  navigable  river  is  the  Bune. 

Climate:  Mild  temperate;  cool,  cloudy,  wet  winters  with  January 
low  of  5°C;  hot,  clear,  dry  summers  with  July  high  of  28°C;  in- 
terior cooler  and  wetter. 

Boundaries:  Land  boundaries  total  720  kilometers;  borders  with 
Greece  282  kilometers;  border  with  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia  151  kilometers;  border  with  Serbia  114  kilometers;  bor- 
der with  Montengro  173  kilometers;  coastline  362  kilometers. 

Society 

Population:  3,335,000  (July  1991),  growth  rate  1.8  percent  (1991). 
Birth  rate  24  per  1 ,000  population,  death  rate  5  per  1 ,000  popula- 
tion. Total  fertility  rate  2.9  children  per  woman.  Infant  mortality 
rate  50  deaths  per  1,000  live  births.  Life  expectancy  at  birth  72 
years  for  males,  79  years  for  females. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Albanian  90  percent,  divided  into  two  groups:  the 
Gegs  to  the  north  of  the  Shkumbin  River  and  the  Tosks  to  the  south. 
Greeks  probably  8  percent,  others  (mostly  Vlachs,  Gypsies,  Serbs 
and  Bulgarians)  about  2  percent. 

Languages:  Albanian  (Tosk  official  dialect,  Geg  also  much-used 
variant),  Greek. 

Religion:  In  1992,  estimated  70  percent  of  people  Muslim,  20  per- 
cent Orthodox,  and  10  percent  Roman  Catholic.  In  1967  all 
mosques  and  churches  closed  and  religious  observances  prohibit- 
ed; in  December  1990,  ban  on  religious  observance  lifted. 

Education:  Free  at  all  levels.  Eight-grade  primary  and  intermediate 
levels  compulsory  beginning  at  age  six.  Literacy  rate  raised  from 
about  20  percent  in  1945  to  estimated  75  percent  in  recent  years. 
In  1990,  primary  school  attended  by  96  percent  of  all  school-age 
children,  and  secondary  school  by  70  percent.  School  operations 
seriously  disrupted  by  breakdown  of  public  order  in  1991. 


xxvin 


Health  and  Welfare:  All  medical  services  free.  Six  months  of 
maternity  leave  at  approximately  85  percent  salary;  noncontribu- 
tory  state  social  insurance  system  for  all  workers,  with  70-100  per- 
cent of  salary  during  sick  leave.  Pension  about  70  percent  of  average 
salary.  Retirement  age  50-60  for  men,  45-55  for  women.  In  early 
1990s,  health  and  welfare  system  adversely  affected  by  economic 
and  social  disintegration. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Until  1991,  centrally  planned  Stalinist  economy. 
Economic  reforms  crippled  by  economic  and  social  disintegration 
in  early  1990s.  In  1992,  new  Democratic  government  announced 
"shock  therapy"  program  to  establish  a  market  economy. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  L16,234  million  in  1990,  US$450 
per  capita,  drop  of  13.1  percent  from  previous  year;  preliminary 
figures  indicated  30  percent  drop  for  1991.' 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Estimated  at  US$4.1  billion  in 
1990;  per  capita  income  estimated  in  range  US$600-US$1 ,250; 
real  growth  rate  not  available. 

Government  Budget:  Revenues  US$2.3  billion;  expenditures 
US$2.3  billion  (1989).  Note:  Albania  perennially  ran  substantial 
trade  deficit;  government  tied  imports  to  exports,  so  deficit  seems 
to  have  been  greatly  reduced  if  not  eliminated. 

Labor  Force:  1,567,000  (1990);  agriculture  about  52  percent,  in- 
dustry 22.9  percent  (1987).  Females  made  up  48.1  percent  of  labor 
force  in  1990. 

Agriculture:  Arable  land  per  capita  lowest  in  Europe.  Self-suffi- 
ciency in  grain  production  achieved  in  1976,  according  to  govern- 
ment figures.  A  wide  variety  of  temperate-zone  crops  and  livestock 
raised.  Up  to  1990,  Albania  largely  self-sufficient  in  food;  there- 
after drought  and  political  breakdown  necessitated  foreign  food  aid. 

Land  Use:  Arable  land  21  percent;  permanent  crops  4  percent; 
meadows  and  pastures  15  percent;  forest  and  woodland  38  per- 
cent; other  22  percent. 

Industry:  Main  industries  in  early  1990s:  food  products,  energy 
and  petroleum,  mining  and  basic  metals,  textiles  and  clothing,  lum- 
ber, cement,  engineering,  and  chemicals. 

Natural  Resources:  Chromium,  coal,  copper,  natural  gas,  nickel, 
oil,  timber. 


XXIX 


Imports:  US$255  million  (1987  estimate).  Major  commodities: 
machinery,  machine  tools,  iron  and  steel  products,  textiles,  chem- 
icals, and  pharmaceuticals. 

Exports:  US$378  million  (1987  estimate).  Major  commodities: 
asphalt,  bitumen,  petroleum  products,  metals  and  metallic  ores, 
electricity,  oil,  vegetables,  fruits,  tobacco. 

Trading  Partners:  Italy,  Yugoslavia,  Germany,  Greece,  East  Eu- 
ropean countries,  and  China. 

Economic  aid:  In  fiscal  year  1991,  United  States  government 
provided  US$2.4  million;  the  European  Community  (EC)  pledged 
US$9.1  million;  and  Italy  provided  US$196  million  for  emergen- 
cy food  aid,  industrial  inputs,  and  education  system.  In  July  1991, 
EC  enrolled  Albania  in  its  program  for  technical  assistance  to  former 
communist  countries. 

Currency:  Lek  (pi.,  leke);  exchange  rate  in  March  1993  LI 09. 62 
per  US$1. 

Fiscal  year:  calendar  year. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  Between  16,000  and  21,000  kilometers  of  road  network 
suitable  for  motor  traffic;  6,700  kilometers  of  main  roads.  In  the 
mountainous  north,  communications  still  mostly  by  pack  ponies 
or  donkeys.  Private  cars  not  permitted  until  second  half  of  1990; 
bicycles  and  mules  widely  used. 

Railroads:  Total  of  543  kilometers,  all  single  track,  509  kilome- 
ters in  1.435-meter  standard  gauge;  thirty-four  kilometers  in  nar- 
row gauge.  Work  on  Yugoslav  section  of  fifty-kilometer  line  between 
Shkoder  and  Titograd  completed  in  late  1985;  line  opened  to  freight 
traffic  in  September  1986. 

Aviation:  Scheduled  flights  from  Rinas  Airport,  twenty-eight  kilo- 
meters from  Tirane  to  many  major  European  cities.  No  regular 
internal  air  service. 

Shipping:  In  1986  Albania  had  twenty  merchant  ships,  with  total  dis- 
placement of  about  56,000  gross  tons.  Main  ports:  Durres,  Vlore, 
Sarande  and  Shengjin.  Completion  of  the  new  port  near  Vlore  by 
early  1990s  will  allow  cargo-handling  capacity  of  4  million  tons  per 
year. 


xxx 


Politics  and  Government 


Political  Parties:  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL),  the  communist 
party,  became  Socialist  Party  of  Albania  in  1991.  Other  parties 
allowed  to  form  December  1990,  including  Albanian  Democratic 
Party,  Republican  Party,  Ecology  Party,  OMONIA  (Unity— Greek 
minority  party). 

Government:  Until  April  1991,  single-chamber  People's  Assem- 
bly with  250  deputies  met  only  few  days  each  year;  decisions  made 
by  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assembly,  whose  president  head  of 
state,  and  Council  of  Ministers;  from  April  1991,  interim  consti- 
tution provided  for  president  who  could  not  hold  other  offices  con- 
currently; People's  Assembly  with  at  least  140  members  legislative 
organ;  Council  of  Ministers  top  executive  organ. 

Ministries:  As  of  August  1993:  agriculture;  construction,  hous- 
ing, and  land;  culture,  youth,  and  sports;  defense;  economy  and 
finance;  education;  foreign  affairs;  health,  and  environment;  in- 
dustry, mining,  and  energy;  justice;  labor,  emigration,  social  as- 
sistance, and  political  prisoners;  public  order;  tourism;  trade  and 
foreign  economic  relations;  and  transport  and  communications. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Country  divided  into  twenty- six  dis- 
tricts, each  under  People's  Council  elected  every  three  years. 

Judicial  System:  Supreme  Court,  elected  by  People's  Assembly, 
also  district  and  regional  courts. 

Flag:  Black,  two-headed  eagle  centered  on  red  field. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  In  1991  People's  Army  included  ground  forces, 
air  and  air  defense  forces,  and  naval  forces  and  comprised  about 
48,000  active-duty  and  155,000  reserve  personnel. 

Ground  Forces:  Numbered  about  35,000,  including  20,000  con- 
scripts. Organized  along  Soviet  lines  into  four  infantry  brigades, 
one  tank  brigade,  three  artillery  regiments,  and  six  coastal  artillery 
battalions.  Tanks  numbered  about  190  and  were  old,  Soviet- type 
T-34  and  T-54s.  Artillery  mixture  of  outdated  Soviet  and  Chinese 
origin  equipment  and  consisted  of  towed  artillery,  mortars,  multi- 
ple rocket  launchers,  and  antitank  guns.  Infantry  brigades  oper- 
ated 130  armored  personnel  carriers. 

Air  and  Air  Defense  Forces:  About  11,000  members,  majority 
of  whose  officers  assigned  to  air  defense  units,  which  also  had  about 


xxxi 


1,400  conscripts  assigned.  Combat  aircraft,  supplied  by  China  in 
the  1960s  and  early  1990s,  numbered  less  than  100.  Air  Forces  or- 
ganized into  three  squadrons  of  fighter-bombers,  three  squadrons 
of  fighters,  two  squadrons  of  transports,  and  two  squadrons  of  un- 
armed helicopters.  Air  Defense  Forces  manned  about  twenty-two 
Soviet-made  SA-2s  at  four  sites. 

Naval  Forces:  About  2,000  members,  of  which  1,000  conscripts, 
organized  into  two  coastal  defense  brigades.  Thirty-seven  patrol 
and  coastal  combatants,  most  of  which  torpedo  craft  of  Chinese 
origin.  Two  Soviet-made  Whiskey-class  submarines.  One  mine- 
warfare  craft  of  Soviet  origin. 

Defense  Budget:  In  1991  about  LI  billion  or  about  5  percent  of 
gross  national  product  and  10  percent  of  total  government  spending. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  In  1989  about  5,000  uniformed  inter- 
nal security  troops,  organized  into  five  regiments  of  mechanized 
infantry,  and  another  5,000  plain-clothed  officers.  In  July  1991  re- 
organized by  People's  Assembly. 

Frontier  Guards:  About  7,000  members  organized  into  several 
battalion-sized  units. 


xxxn 


r 
1 

? 


I 


^Xssll  "  20    Boundary  representation  21 

not  necessarily  authoritative 

YUGOSLAVIA 

'  S/Jr  J  ~\Bajram  Curri  < 

\     ,.  C\  h  ^  TROPOJE 

~\        N.    ■.    \Shkoder  ( 
I  V^J      „    f'-'  Puke 


•    MIRDITE,V        \  r^T 


Rreshen  ■«/. 


■)  MAT  /  Peshtop,  ^ 

Su"e))  ^'YUGOSLAVIA 


Adriatic  /  <rv1 


5ea 


7/rane        ~- /  i  J 

/  /  Librazhd  \ 


International  boundary 
District  boundary 
National  capital 
District  center 


25  Kilometers 
25  Mile 


Strait 
of  Otranto 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Albania,  1992 


xxx  iv 


government  of  nonparty  members  and  specialists  headed  by  Vil- 
son  Ahmeti  struggled  on  until  the  ADP  scored  a  decisive  election 
victory  on  March  22,  1992,  amidst  economic  free-fall  and  social 
chaos,  receiving  about  62  percent  of  the  vote  to  the  SPA's  26  per- 
cent. Alia  resigned  as  president  shortly  afterward,  paving  the  way 
for  the  ADP  to  take  over  the  government.  On  April  9,  Sali  Berisha, 
a  cardiologist  by  training  and  a  dynamic  ADP  leader  who  had 
figured  prominentiy  in  the  struggle  for  political  pluralism,  was  elect- 
ed by  the  People's  Assembly  to  the  post  of  president.  The  first  pos 
communist  government,  headed  by  ADP  founding  memf 
Aleksander  Meksi,  was  appointed  four  days  later.  This  "cab.  ^et 
of  hope,"  as  it  was  popularly  dubbed,  consisted  mainly  of  young 
ADP  activists,  intellectuals  without  prior  government  experience. 
Unlike  their  communist  predecessors,  most  of  whom  were  of 
southern  Albanian  origin,  the  ministers  hailed  from  various  parts 
of  the  country. 

The  new  government  made  remarkable  progress  in  restoring  law 
and  order,  reforming  the  economy,  and  raising  the  population's 
standard  of  living.  It  privatized  small  businesses,  closed  down  un- 
profitable industrial  facilities,  distributed  about  90  percent  of  the 
land  previously  held  by  collective  farms  to  private  farmers,  began 
to  privatize  housing,  improved  the  supply  of  food  and  basic  con- 
sumer goods,  reduced  the  rate  of  inflation,  stabilized  the  lek  (Al- 
bania's currency  unit),  cut  the  budget  deficit,  and  increased  the 
volume  of  exports.  However,  more  than  one  year  after  the 
Democrats  came  to  power,  Albania's  economic  plight  was  far  from 
over.  Its  400,000  newly  registered  private  farmers  had  yet  to  as- 
sume full  ownership  rights  over  their  land,  there  was  insufficient 
investment  in  private  agriculture,  and  shortages  of  tractors  and  other 
farming  equipment  continued  to  impede  agricultural  production. 
Approximately  forty  percent  of  the  nonagricultural  labor  force  was 
unemployed,  corruption  pervaded  the  state  bureaucracy,  and  the 
country  remained  dependent  on  foreign  food  aid.  In  addition,  partly 
because  of  the  general  political  instability  in  the  Balkans,  particu- 
larly in  the  former  Yugoslavia  (see  Glossary),  direct  investment 
from  abroad  was  not  forthcoming.  Although  President  Berisha' s 
"shock  therapy"  received  the  imprimatur  of  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  it  drew  sharp  criticism  from 
the  SPA,  which  had  been  resuscitated  by  significant  gains  in  the 
July  1992  local  elections.  The  SPA  argued  that  the  reforms  should 
have  been  implemented  gradually,  that  many  more  jobs  had  been 
eliminated  than  created,  and  that  at  least  some  of  the  old  state-run 
factories  should  have  been  kept  open. 


xxxvi 


In  March  1993,  SPA  chairman  Fatos  Nano  called  on  the  entire 
cabinet  to  resign,  accusing  it  of  incompetence.  On  April  6,  Presi- 
dent Berisha,  citing  a  need  to  '  'correct  weaknesses  and  shortcom- 
ings" in  the  government's  reform  efforts,  replaced  the  ministers 
of  agriculture,  internal  affairs,  education,  and  tourism  (although 
ADP  chairman  Eduard  Selami  denied  that  these  changes  had  been 
made  in  response  to  the  opposition's  demands).  The  new  appoin- 
tees included  individuals  with  greater  professional  expertise  and 
two  political  independents.  The  outgoing  ministers  of  agriculture 
and  internal  affairs  assumed  other  government  posts.  Despite  the 
Socialist  challenge,  opposition  from  right-wing  extremists,  and  some 
manifestations  of  discord  within  the  ADP,  the  Democratic  govern- 
ment remained  in  a  strong  position  in  late  1993. 

In  foreign  policy,  the  unresolved  question  of  the  status  of  Koso- 
vo, a  formerly  autonomous  province  of  Serbia,  predominated. 
Although  in  September  1991  Kosovo's  underground  parliament 
proclaimed  this  enclave  with  its  large  majority  of  ethnic  Albani- 
ans a  ' 1  sovereign  and  independent  state,"  Albania  was  the  only 
country  that  had  officially  recognized  Kosovo's  independence  from 
Serbia.  The  Serbian  government  carried  out  a  policy  of  systemat- 
ic segregation  and  repression  in  Kosovo  that  some  Western  ob- 
servers have  compared  with  South  Africa's  apartheid  system. 
Concerned  that  Serbia's  ethnic  cleansing  campaigns  would  spread 
from  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  to  Kosovo  and  that  Albania  could 
be  dragged  into  the  ensuing  confrontation  (potentially  a  general 
Balkan  war),  President  Berisha  forged  closer  relations  with  other 
Islamic  countries,  particularly  Turkey.  In  December  1992,  Alba- 
nia joined  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC),  a 
move  denounced  by  the  SPA  as  a  detriment  to  the  country's  rein- 
tegration with  Europe.  But  Berisha  also  sought  ties  to  the  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  and  urged  repeatedly  that 
NATO  forces  be  deployed  in  Kosovo.  In  March  1993,  NATO 
secretary  general  Manfred  Worner  visited  Tirane,  and  later  that 
month  Albanian  defense  minister  Safet  Zhulali  participated  in  a 
meeting  of  the  North  Atlantic  Cooperation  Council  in  Brussels. 
Worner  offered  various  forms  of  technical  assistance  to  the  Alba- 
nian armed  forces,  although  membership  in  NATO  itself  was 
withheld. 

In  April  1993,  Albania  granted  recognition  to  the  former  Yu- 
goslav Republic  of  Macedonia.  Important  factors  in  relations  be- 
tween the  two  countries  were  the  human  rights  of  the  Albanian 
minority  in  Macedonia,  estimated  to  amount  to  between  a  fifth 
and  a  third  of  the  population,  and  possible  Albanian  irredentism. 


xxxvii 


Relations  benefited  from  the  inclusion  of  ethnic  Albanians  in  the 
Macedonian  government.  Good  relations  were  maintained  with 
Slovenia,  Croatia,  Italy,  Bulgaria,  and  Romania  as  well,  and  steps 
were  taken  to  improve  relations  with  the  neighboring  Republic  of 
Montenegro,  also  home  to  a  large  minority  Albanian  community. 
In  September,  Montenegro's  president,  Momir  Bulatovic,  met  with 
President  Berisha  in  Tirane  for  the  highest  level  talks  between  the 
two  countries  in  a  half-century.  Attempts  to  expand  cooperation 
and  exchanges  with  Montenegro,  however,  were  hampered  by  a 
United  Nations  embargo  against  the  rump  Yugoslavia. 

Relations  with  Greece,  Albania's  ancient  southern  neighbor 
(which,  for  religious  and  historical  reasons,  was  expected  to  side 
with  Serbia  in  the  event  of  war  in  Kosovo),  deteriorated  rapidly 
in  the  early  1990s.  The  tension  stemmed  primarily  from  two  is- 
sues: the  influx  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  illegal  aliens,  mostly 
economic  immigrants,  from  Albania  to  Greece,  and  the  treatment 
of  ethnic  Greeks  in  Albania.  Greco- Albanian  relations  worsened 
markedly  when  the  Albanian  parliament  voted  in  February  1992 
to  prevent  OMONIA  (Unity),  the  political  party  representing  Greek 
Albanians,  from  fielding  candidates  in  the  March  1992  election. 
A  compromise  was  reached,  permitting  OMONIA' s  members  to 
register  under  the  name  of  the  Union  for  Human  Rights  and  to 
have  their  representatives  included  among  the  candidates,  but 
mutual  recriminations  persisted.  Another  major  setback  occurred 
in  June  1993  when  Albania  expelled  a  Greek  Orthodox  priest  for 
allegedly  fomenting  unrest  among  ethnic  Greeks  in  southern  Al- 
bania, and  Greece  retaliated  by  deporting  25,000  Albanian  illegal 
immigrants.  Several  weeks  later  Greece's  prime  minister,  Constan- 
tinos  Mitsotakis,  demanded  "the  same  rights  for  the  Greek  com- 
munity living  in  Albania  as  those  that  the  Albanian  government 
demands  for  the  Albanian  communities  in  the  former  Yugoslavia. ' ' 
A  potential  problem  was  posed  also  by  the  status  of  "Northern  Epi- 
rus,"  the  Greek-populated  region  in  southern  Albania  on  which 
Greece  had  made  territorial  claims  in  the  past.  The  regional  in- 
stability created  by  such  ethnic  tensions,  combined  with  contin- 
ued economic  deprivation,  threatened  Albania's  transition  to 
democracy. 


January  1,  1994  Walter  R.  Iwaskiw 


xxxvin 


Skanderbeg,  Albanian  national  hero  of  the  fifteenth  century 


'  'THE  ALBANIAN  PEOPLE  have  hacked  their  way  through  his- 
tory, sword  in  hand,"  proclaims  the  preamble  to  Albania's  1976 
Stalinist  constitution.  These  words  were  penned  by  the  most 
dominant  figure  in  Albania's  modern  history,  the  Orwellian  post- 
war despot,  Enver  Hoxha.  The  fact  that  Hoxha  enshrined  them 
in  Albania's  supreme  law  is  indicative  of  how  he — like  his  men- 
tor, the  Soviet  dictator  Joseph  Stalin — exploited  his  people's  col- 
lective memory  to  enhance  the  might  of  the  communist  system, 
which  he  manipulated  for  over  four  decades.  Supported  by  a  group 
of  sycophantic  intellectuals,  Hoxha  repeatedly  transformed  friends 
into  hated  foes  in  his  determination  to  shape  events.  Similarly,  he 
rewrote  Albania's  history  so  that  national  heroes  were  recast,  some- 
times overnight,  as  villains.  Hoxha  appealed  to  the  Albanians' 
xenophobia  and  their  defensive  nationalism  to  parry  criticism  and 
threats  to  communist  central  control  and  his  regime  and  to  justify  its 
brutal,  arbitrary  rule  and  economic  and  social  folly.  Only  Hoxha' s 
death,  the  timely  downfall  of  communism  in  Eastern  Europe  at 
the  end  of  the  1980s,  and  the  collapse  of  the  nation's  economy  were 
enough  to  break  his  spell  and  propel  Albania  fitfully  toward  change. 

The  Albanians  are  probably  an  ethnic  outcropping  of  the  Illyri- 
ans,  an  ancient  Balkan  people  who  intermingled  and  made  war 
with  the  Greeks,  Thracians,  and  Macedonians  before  succumb- 
ing to  Roman  rule  around  the  time  of  Christ.  Eastern  and  Western 
powers,  secular  and  religious,  battled  for  centuries  after  the  fall 
of  Rome  to  control  the  lands  that  constitute  modern-day  Albania. 
All  the  Illyrian  tribes  except  the  Albanians  disappeared  during  the 
Dark  Ages  under  the  waves  of  migrating  barbarians.  A  forbidding 
mountain  homeland  and  resilient  tribal  society  enabled  the  Alba- 
nians to  survive  into  modern  times  with  their  identity  and  their 
Indo-European  language  intact. 

In  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  the  Ottoman  Turks 
swept  into  the  western  Balkans.  After  a  quixotic  defense  mounted 
by  the  Albanians'  greatest  hero,  Skanderbeg,  the  Albanians  suc- 
cumbed to  the  Turkish  sultan's  forces.  During  five  centuries  of  Ot- 
toman rule,  about  two-thirds  of  the  Albanian  population,  including 
its  most  powerful  feudal  landowners,  converted  to  Islam.  Many 
Albanians  won  fame  and  fortune  as  soldiers,  administrators,  and 
merchants  in  far-flung  parts  of  the  empire.  As  the  centuries  passed, 
however,  Ottoman  rulers  lost  the  capacity  to  command  the  loyalty 
of  local  pashas,  who  governed  districts  on  the  empire's  fringes.  Soon 


3 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


pressures  created  by  emerging  national  movements  among  the  em- 
pire's farrago  of  peoples  threatened  to  shatter  the  empire  itself.  The 
Ottoman  rulers  of  the  nineteenth  century  struggled  in  vain  to  shore 
up  central  authority,  introducing  reforms  aimed  at  harnessing  un- 
ruly pashas  and  checking  the  spread  of  nationalist  ideas. 

Albanian  nationalism  stirred  for  the  first  time  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century  when  it  appeared  that  Serbia,  Montenegro, 
Bulgaria,  and  Greece  would  snatch  up  the  Ottoman  Empire's 
Albanian-populated  lands.  In  1878  Albanian  leaders  organized  the 
Prizren  League,  which  pressed  for  autonomy  within  the  empire. 
After  decades  of  unrest  and  the  Ottoman  Empire's  defeat  in  the 
First  Balkan  War  in  1912-13,  Albanian  leaders  declared  Albania 
an  independent  state,  and  Europe's  Great  Powers  carved  out  an 
independent  Albania  after  the  Second  Balkan  War  of  1913. 

With  the  complete  collapse  of  the  Ottoman  and  Austro- 
Hungarian  empires  after  World  War  I,  the  Albanians  looked  to 
Italy  for  protection  against  predators.  After  1925,  however,  Mus- 
solini sought  to  dominate  Albania.  In  1928  Albania  became  a  king- 
dom under  Zog  I,  the  conservative  Muslim  clan  chief  and  former 
prime  minister,  but  Zog  failed  to  stave  off  Italian  ascendancy  in 
Albanian  internal  affairs.  In  1939  Mussolini's  troops  occupied  Al- 
bania, overthrew  Zog,  and  annexed  the  country.  Albanian  com- 
munists and  nationalists  fought  each  other  as  well  as  the  occupying 
Italian  and  German  forces  during  World  War  II,  and  with  Yu- 
goslav and  Allied  assistance  the  communists  triumphed. 

After  the  war,  communist  strongmen  Enver  Hoxha  and  Meh- 
met  Shehu  eliminated  their  rivals  inside  the  communist  party  and 
liquidated  anticommunist  opposition.  Concentrating  primarily  on 
maintaining  their  grip  on  power,  they  reorganized  the  country's 
economy  along  strict  Stalinist  lines,  turning  first  to  Yugoslavia, 
then  to  the  Soviet  Union,  and  later  to  China  for  support.  In  pur- 
suit of  their  goals,  the  communists  repressed  the  Albanian  people, 
subjecting  them  to  isolation,  propaganda,  and  brutal  police  mea- 
sures. When  China  opened  up  to  the  West  in  the  1970s,  Albania's 
rulers  turned  away  from  Beijing  and  implemented  a  policy  of  strict 
autarky,  or  self-sufficiency,  that  brought  their  nation  economic  ruin. 

The  Ancient  lllyrians 

Mystery  enshrouds  the  exact  origins  of  today's  Albanians.  Most 
historians  of  the  Balkans  believe  that  the  Albanian  people  are  in 
large  part  descendants  of  the  ancient  lllyrians,  who,  like  other 
Balkan  peoples,  were  subdivided  into  tribes  and  clans.  The  name 
Albania  is  derived  from  the  name  of  an  Illyrian  tribe  called  the 
Arber,  or  Arbereshe,  and  later  Albanoi,  that  lived  near  Durres. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


The  Illyrians  were  Indo-European  tribesmen  who  appeared  in  the 
western  part  of  the  Balkan  Peninsula  about  1000  B.C.,  a  period 
coinciding  with  the  end  of  the  Bronze  Age  and  the  beginning  of 
the  Iron  Age.  They  inhabited  much  of  the  area  for  at  least  the  next 
millennium.  Archaeologists  associate  the  Illyrians  with  the  Hall- 
statt  culture,  an  Iron  Age  people  noted  for  production  of  iron  and 
bronze  swords  with  winged- shaped  handles  and  for  domestication 
of  horses.  The  Illyrians  occupied  lands  extending  from  the  Danube, 
Sava,  and  Morava  rivers  to  the  Adriatic  Sea  and  the  Sar  Moun- 
tains. At  various  times,  groups  of  Illyrians  migrated  over  land  and 
sea  into  Italy. 

The  Illyrians  carried  on  commerce  and  warfare  with  their  neigh- 
bors. The  ancient  Macedonians  probably  had  some  Illyrian  roots, 
but  their  ruling  class  adopted  Greek  cultural  characteristics.  The 
Illyrians  also  mingled  with  the  Thracians,  another  ancient  people 
with  adjoining  lands  on  the  east.  In  the  south  and  along  the  Adri- 
atic Sea  coast,  the  Illyrians  were  heavily  influenced  by  the  Greeks, 
who  founded  trading  colonies  there.  The  present-day  city  of  Durres 
(Dyrrachium)  evolved  from  a  Greek  colony  known  as  Epidamnos, 
which  was  founded  at  the  end  of  the  seventh  century  B.C.  Another 
famous  Greek  colony,  Apollonia,  arose  between  Durres  and  the 
port  city  of  Vlore. 

The  Illyrians  produced  and  traded  catde,  horses,  agricultural 
goods,  and  wares  fashioned  from  locally  mined  copper  and  iron. 
Feuds  and  warfare  were  constant  facts  of  life  for  the  Illyrian  tribes, 
and  Illyrian  pirates  plagued  shipping  on  the  Adriatic  Sea.  Coun- 
cils of  elders  chose  the  chieftains  who  headed  each  of  the  numer- 
ous Illyrian  tribes.  From  time  to  time,  local  chieftains  extended 
their  rule  over  other  tribes  and  formed  short-lived  kingdoms.  During 
the  fifth  century  B.C. ,  a  well-developed  Illyrian  population  center 
existed  as  far  north  as  the  upper  Sava  River  valley  in  what  is  now 
Slovenia.  Illyrian  friezes  discovered  near  the  present-day  Sloveni- 
an city  of  Ljubljana  depict  ritual  sacrifices,  feasts,  battles,  sport- 
ing events,  and  other  activities. 

The  Illyrian  kingdom  of  Bardhyllus  became  a  formidable  local 
power  in  the  fourth  century  B.C.  In  358  B.C.,  however,  Macedo- 
nia's Philip  II,  father  of  Alexander  the  Great,  defeated  the  Illyri- 
ans and  assumed  control  of  their  territory  as  far  as  Lake  Ohrid 
(see  fig.  1).  Alexander  himself  routed  the  forces  of  the  Illyrian  chief- 
tain Clitus  in  335  B.C.,  and  Illyrian  tribal  leaders  and  soldiers  ac- 
companied Alexander  on  his  conquest  of  Persia.  After  Alexander's 
death  in  323  B.C.,  independent  Illyrian  kingdoms  again  arose.  In 
312  B.C.,  King  Glaucius  expelled  the  Greeks  from  Durres.  By  the 
end  of  the  third  century,  an  Illyrian  kingdom  based  near  what  is 


5 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  R.  Ernest  Dupuy  and  Trevor  N.  Dupuy,  The  Ency- 
clopedia of  Military  History,  New  York,  1970,  95;  Hermann  Kinder  and  Werner  Hil- 
gemann,  The  Anchor  Atlas  of  World  History,  1,  New  York,  1974,  90,  94;  and 
Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  15,  New  York,  1975,  1092. 

Figure  2.  Illyria  under  Roman  Rule,  First  Century  B.  C 

now  the  Albanian  city  of  Shkoder  controlled  parts  of  northern  Al- 
bania, Montenegro,  and  Hercegovina.  Under  Queen  Teuta,  Illyri- 
ans  attacked  Roman  merchant  vessels  plying  the  Adriatic  Sea  and 
gave  Rome  an  excuse  to  invade  the  Balkans. 

In  the  Illyrian  Wars  of  229  and  219  B.C.,  Rome  overran  the 
Illyrian  setdements  in  the  Neretva  River  valley.  The  Romans  made 
new  gains  in  168  B.C.,  and  Roman  forces  captured  Illyria' s  King 
Gentius  at  Shkoder,  which  they  called  Scodra,  and  brought  him 
to  Rome  in  165  B.C.  A  century  later,  Julius  Caesar  and  his  rival 
Pompey  fought  their  decisive  battle  near  Durres.  In  A.D.  9,  dur- 
ing the  reign  of  Emperor  Tiberius,  Rome  finally  subjugated  recal- 
citrant Illyrian  tribes  in  the  western  Balkans.  The  Romans  divided 
the  lands  that  make  up  present-day  Albania  among  the  provinces 
of  Macedonia,  Dalmatia,  and  Epirus  (see  fig.  2). 

For  about  four  centuries,  Roman  rule  brought  the  Illyrian- 
populated  lands  economic  and  cultural  advancement  and  ended 
most  of  the  clashes  among  local  tribes.  The  Illyrian  mountain 


6 


Historical  Setting 


clansmen  retained  local  authority  but  pledged  allegiance  to  the  em- 
peror and  acknowledged  the  authority  of  his  envoys.  During  a  yearly 
holiday  honoring  the  Caesars,  the  Illyrian  mountaineers  swore 
loyalty  to  the  emperor  and  reaffirmed  their  political  rights.  A  form 
of  this  tradition,  known  as  the  kuvend,  has  survived  to  the  present 
day  in  northern  Albania. 

The  Romans  established  numerous  military  camps  and  colonies 
and  completely  latinized  the  coastal  cities.  They  also  oversaw  the 
construction  of  aqueducts  and  roads,  including  the  Via  Egnatia, 
a  famous  military  highway  and  trade  route  that  led  from  Durres 
through  the  Shkumbin  River  valley  to  Macedonia  and  Byzantium 
(later  Constantinople — see  Glossary).  Copper,  asphalt,  and  silver 
were  extracted  from  the  mountains.  The  main  exports  were  wine, 
cheese,  and  oil,  as  well  as  fish  from  Lake  Scutari  and  Lake  Ohrid. 
Imports  included  tools,  metalware,  luxury  goods,  and  other 
manufactured  articles.  Apollonia  became  a  cultural  center,  and 
Julius  Caesar  himself  sent  his  nephew,  later  the  Emperor  Augustus, 
to  study  there. 

Illyrians  distinguished  themselves  as  warriors  in  the  Roman  legions 
and  made  up  a  significant  portion  of  the  Praetorian  Guard.  Several 
of  the  Roman  emperors  were  of  Illyrian  origin,  including  Diocleti- 
an (r.  284-305),  who  saved  the  empire  from  disintegration  by  in- 
troducing institutional  reforms;  and  Constantine  the  Great  (r. 
324-37),  who  accepted  Christianity  and  transferred  the  empire's  cap- 
ital from  Rome  to  Byzantium,  which  he  called  Constantinople.  Em- 
peror Justinian  (r.  527-65) — who  codified  Roman  law,  built  the  most 
famous  Byzantine  church,  the  Hagia  Sofia,  and  reextended  the  em- 
pire's control  over  lost  territories — was  probably  also  an  Illyrian. 

Christianity  came  to  the  Illyrian-populated  lands  in  the  first  cen- 
tury A.D.  Saint  Paul  wrote  that  he  preached  in  the  Roman  province 
of  Illyricum,  and  legend  holds  that  he  visited  Durres.  When  the 
Roman  Empire  was  divided  into  eastern  and  western  halves  in  A.D. 
395,  the  lands  that  now  make  up  Albania  were  administered  by 
the  Eastern  Empire  but  were  ecclesiastically  dependent  on  Rome. 
In  A.D.  732,  however,  a  Byzantine  emperor,  Leo  the  Isaurian, 
subordinated  the  area  to  the  patriarchate  of  Constantinople.  For 
centuries  thereafter,  the  Albanian  lands  were  an  arena  for  the  ec- 
clesiastical struggle  between  Rome  and  Constantinople.  Most  Al- 
banians living  in  the  mountainous  north  became  Roman  Catholic, 
whereas  in  the  southern  and  central  regions  the  majority  became 
Orthodox. 

The  Barbarian  Invasions  and  the  Middle  Ages 

The  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  and  the  age  of  great  migrations 


7 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

brought  radical  changes  to  the  Balkan  Peninsula  and  the  Illyrian 
people.  Barbarian  tribesmen  overran  many  rich  Roman  cities,  de- 
stroying the  existing  social  and  economic  order  and  leaving  the  great 
Roman  aqueducts,  coliseums,  temples,  and  roads  in  ruins.  The 
Illyrians  gradually  disappeared  as  a  distinct  people  from  the  Balkans, 
replaced  by  the  Bui  gars,  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Albanians.  In  the  late 
Middle  Ages,  new  waves  of  invaders  swept  over  the  Albanian- 
populated  lands.  Thanks  to  their  protective  mountains,  close-knit 
tribal  society,  and  sheer  pertinacity,  however,  the  Albanian  peo- 
ple developed  a  distinctive  identity  and  language. 

In  the  fourth  century,  barbarian  tribes  began  to  prey  upon  the 
Roman  Empire,  and  the  fortunes  of  the  Illyrian-populated  lands 
sagged.  The  Germanic  Goths  and  Asiatic  Huns  were  the  first  to 
arrive,  invading  in  mid-century;  the  Avars  attacked  in  A.D.  570; 
and  the  Slavic  Serbs  and  Croats  overran  Illyrian-populated  areas 
in  the  early  seventh  century.  About  fifty  years  later,  the  Bui  gars 
conquered  much  of  the  Balkan  Peninsula  and  extended  their  do- 
main to  the  lowlands  of  what  is  now  central  Albania.  Many  Illyri- 
ans fled  from  coastal  areas  to  the  mountains,  exchanging  a  sedentary 
peasant  existence  for  the  itinerant  life  of  the  herdsman.  Other  Illyri- 
ans intermarried  with  the  conquerors  and  eventually  assimilated. 
In  general,  the  invaders  destroyed  or  weakened  Roman  and  Byzan- 
tine cultural  centers  in  the  lands  that  would  become  Albania. 

Again  during  the  late  medieval  period,  invaders  ravaged  the 
Illyrian-inhabited  regions  of  the  Balkans.  Norman,  Venetian,  and 
Byzantine  fleets  attacked  by  sea.  Bulgar,  Serb,  and  Byzantine  forces 
came  overland  and  held  the  region  in  their  grip  for  years.  Clashes 
between  rival  clans  and  intrusions  by  the  Serbs  produced  hard- 
ship that  triggered  an  exodus  from  the  region  southward  into 
Greece,  including  Thessaly,  the  Peloponnese,  and  the  Aegean  Is- 
lands. The  invaders  assimilated  much  of  the  Illyrian  population, 
but  the  Illyrians  living  in  lands  that  comprise  modern-day  Alba- 
nia and  parts  of  Yugoslavia  (see  Glossary)  and  Greece  were  never 
completely  absorbed  or  even  controlled. 

The  first  historical  mention  of  Albania  and  the  Albanians  as  such 
appears  in  an  account  of  the  resistance  by  a  Byzantine  emperor, 
Alexius  I  Comnenus,  to  an  offensive,  in  1081,  into  Albanian- 
populated  lands.  The  offense  was  waged  by  Vatican-backed  Nor- 
mans from  southern  Italy. 

The  Serbs  occupied  parts  of  northern  and  eastern  Albania  toward 
the  end  of  the  twelfth  century.  In  1204,  after  Western  crusaders 
had  sacked  Constantinople,  Venice  won  nominal  control  over  Al- 
bania and  the  Epirus  region  of  northern  Greece  and  took  posses- 
sion of  Durres.  A  prince  from  the  overthrown  Byzantine  ruling 


8 


Historical  Setting 


family,  Michael  Comnenus,  made  alliances  with  Albanian  chiefs 
and  drove  the  Venetians  from  lands  that  now  make  up  southern 
Albania  and  northern  Greece.  In  1204  he  set  up  an  independent 
principality,  the  Despotate  of  Epirus,  with  Janina  (now  Ioannina 
in  northwest  Greece)  as  its  capital.  In  1272  the  king  of  Naples, 
Charles  I  of  Anjou,  occupied  Durres  and  formed  an  Albanian  king- 
dom that  would  last  for  a  century.  Internal  power  struggles  fur- 
ther weakened  the  Byzantine  Empire  in  the  fourteenth  century, 
enabling  the  Serbs'  most  powerful  medieval  ruler,  Stefan  Dusan, 
to  establish  a  short-lived  empire  that  included  all  of  Albania  ex- 
cept Durres. 

The  Albanian  Lands  under  Ottoman  Domination, 
1385-1876 

The  expanding  Ottoman  Empire  overpowered  the  Balkan  Penin- 
sula in  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries.  At  first,  the  feuding 
Albanian  clans  proved  no  match  for  the  armies  of  the  sultan  (see 
Glossary).  In  the  fifteenth  century,  however,  Skanderbeg  united 
the  Albanian  tribes  in  a  defensive  alliance  that  held  up  the  Otto- 
man advance  for  more  than  two  decades.  His  family's  banner,  bear- 
ing a  black  two-headed  eagle  on  a  red  field,  became  the  flag  under 
which  the  Albanian  national  movement  rallied  centuries  later. 

Five  centuries  of  Ottoman  rule  left  the  Albanian  people  fractured 
along  religious,  regional,  and  tribal  lines.  The  first  Albanians  to 
convert  to  Islam  were  young  boys  forcibly  conscripted  into  the  sul- 
tan's military  and  administration.  In  the  early  seventeenth  centu- 
ry, however,  Albanians  converted  to  Islam  in  great  numbers. 
Within  a  century,  the  Albanian  Islamic  community  was  split  be- 
tween Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Muslims  and  adherents  to  the  Bektashi 
(see  Glossary)  sect.  The  Albanian  people  also  became  divided  into 
two  distinct  tribal  and  dialectal  groupings,  the  Gegs  and  Tosks. 
In  the  rugged  northern  mountains,  Geg  shepherds  lived  in  a  tribal 
society  often  completely  independent  of  Ottoman  rule.  In  the  south, 
peasant  Muslim  and  Orthodox  Tosks  worked  the  land  for  Muslim 
beys,  provincial  rulers  who  frequently  revolted  against  the  sultan's 
authority.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Ottoman  sultans  tried 
in  vain  to  shore  up  their  collapsing  empire  by  introducing  a  series 
of  reforms  aimed  at  reining  in  recalcitrant  local  officials  and  dous- 
ing the  fires  of  nationalism  among  its  myriad  peoples.  The  power 
of  nationalism,  however,  proved  too  strong  to  counteract. 

The  Ottoman  Conquest  of  Albania 

The  Ottoman  Turks  expanded  their  empire  from  Anatolia  to 


9 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  Balkans  in  the  fourteenth  century.  They  crossed  the  Bosporus 
in  1352,  and  in  1389  they  crushed  a  Serb-led  army  that  included 
Albanian  forces  at  Kosovo  Polje,  located  in  the  southern  part  of 
present-day  Yugoslavia.  Europe  gained  a  brief  respite  from  Otto- 
man pressure  in  1402  when  the  Mongol  leader,  Tamerlane,  at- 
tacked Anatolia  from  the  east,  killed  the  Turks'  absolute  ruler,  the 
sultan,  and  sparked  a  civil  war.  When  order  was  restored,  the  Ot- 
tomans renewed  their  westward  progress.  In  1453  Sultan  Mehmed 
IPs  forces  overran  Constantinople  and  killed  the  last  Byzantine 
emperor. 

The  division  of  the  Albanian-populated  lands  into  small,  quar- 
reling fiefdoms  ruled  by  independent  feudal  lords  and  tribal  chiefs 
made  them  easy  prey  for  the  Ottoman  armies.  In  1385  the  Alba- 
nian ruler  of  Durres,  Karl  Thopia,  appealed  to  the  sultan  for  sup- 
port against  his  rivals,  the  Balsha  family.  An  Ottoman  force  quickly 
marched  into  Albania  along  the  Via  Egnatia  and  routed  the  Bal- 
shas.  The  principal  Albanian  clans  soon  swore  fealty  to  the  Turks. 
Sultan  Murad  II  launched  the  major  Ottoman  onslaught  in  the 
Balkans  in  1423,  and  the  Turks  took  Janina  in  1431  and  Arta,  on 
the  Ionian  coast,  in  1449.  The  Turks  allowed  conquered  Albani- 
an clan  chiefs  to  maintain  their  positions  and  property,  but  they 
had  to  pay  tribute,  send  their  sons  to  the  Turkish  court  as  hostages, 
and  provide  the  Ottoman  army  with  auxiliary  troops. 

The  Albanians'  resistance  to  the  Turks  in  the  mid-fifteenth  cen- 
tury won  them  acclaim  all  over  Europe.  Gjon  Kastrioti  of  Kruje 
was  one  of  the  Albanian  clan  leaders  who  submitted  to  Turkish 
suzerainty.  He  was  compelled  to  send  his  four  sons  to  the  Otto- 
man capital  to  be  trained  for  military  service.  The  youngest,  Gjergj 
Kastrioti  (1403-68),  who  would  become  the  Albanians'  greatest 
national  hero,  captured  the  sultan's  attention.  Renamed  Iskander 
when  he  converted  to  Islam,  the  young  man  participated  in  mili- 
tary expeditions  to  Asia  Minor  and  Europe.  When  appointed  to 
administer  a  Balkan  district,  Iskander  became  known  as  Skander- 
beg.  After  Ottoman  forces  under  Skanderbeg's  command  suffered 
defeat  in  a  battle  near  Nis,  in  present-day  Serbia,  in  1443,  the  Al- 
banian rushed  to  Kruje  and  tricked  a  Turkish  pasha  into  surren- 
dering to  him  the  Kastrioti  family  fortress.  Skanderbeg  then 
reembraced  Roman  Catholicism  and  declared  a  holy  war  against 
the  Turks. 

On  March  1,  1444,  Albanian  chieftains  gathered  in  the  cathedral 
of  Lezhe  with  the  prince  of  Montenegro  and  delegates  from  Venice 
and  proclaimed  Skanderbeg  commander  of  the  Albanian  resistance. 
All  of  Albania,  including  most  of  Epirus,  accepted  his  leadership 
against  the  Ottoman  Turks,  but  local  leaders  kept  control  of  their 


10 


Equestrian  statue  of  Skanderbeg  on  Skanderbeg  Square  in  central  Tirane 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


11 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

own  districts.  Under  a  red  flag  bearing  Skanderbeg's  heraldic  em- 
blem, an  Albanian  force  of  about  30,000  men  held  off  brutal  Ot- 
toman campaigns  against  their  lands  for  twenty-four  years.  Twice 
the  Albanians  overcame  sieges  of  Kruje.  In  1449  the  Albanians 
routed  Sultan  Murad  II  himself.  Later,  they  repulsed  attacks  led 
by  Sultan  Mehmed  II.  In  1461  Skanderbeg  went  to  the  aid  of  his 
suzerain,  King  Alfonso  I  of  Naples,  against  the  kings  of  Sicily.  The 
government  under  Skanderbeg  was  unstable,  however,  and  at  times 
local  Albanian  rulers  cooperated  with  the  Ottoman  Turks  against 
him.  When  Skanderbeg  died  at  Lezhe,  the  sultan  reportedly  cried 
out,  "Asia  and  Europe  are  mine  at  last.  Woe  to  Christendom!  She 
has  lost  her  sword  and  shield." 

With  support  from  Naples  and  the  Vatican,  resistance  to  the  Ot- 
toman Empire  continued  mostly  in  Albania's  highlands,  where  the 
chieftains  even  opposed  the  construction  of  roads  out  of  fear  that 
they  would  bring  Ottoman  soldiers  and  tax  collectors.  The  Alba- 
nians' fractured  leadership,  however,  failed  to  halt  the  Ottoman 
onslaught.  Kruje  fell  to  the  Ottoman  Turks  in  1478;  Shkoder  suc- 
cumbed in  1479  after  a  fifteen-month  siege;  and  the  Venetians 
evacuated  Durres  in  1501 .  The  defeats  triggered  a  great  Albanian 
exodus  to  southern  Italy,  especially  to  the  kingdom  of  Naples,  as 
well  as  to  Sicily,  Greece,  Romania,  and  Egypt.  Most  of  the  Alba- 
nian refugees  belonged  to  the  Orthodox  Church.  Some  of  the 
emigres  to  Italy  converted  to  Roman  Catholicism,  and  the  rest  es- 
tablished a  Uniate  Church  (see  Glossary).  The  Albanians  of  Italy 
significantly  influenced  the  Albanian  national  movement  in  future 
centuries,  and  Albanian  Franciscan  priests,  most  of  whom  were 
descended  from  emigres  to  Italy,  played  a  significant  role  in  the 
preservation  of  Catholicism  in  Albania's  northern  regions. 

Albanians  under  Ottoman  Rule 

The  Ottoman  sultan  considered  himself  God's  agent  on  earth, 
the  leader  of  a  religious — not  a  national — state  whose  purpose  was 
to  defend  and  propagate  Islam.  Non-Muslims  paid  extra  taxes  and 
held  an  inferior  status,  but  they  could  retain  their  old  religion  and 
a  large  measure  of  local  autonomy.  By  converting  to  Islam,  in- 
dividuals among  the  conquered  could  elevate  themselves  to  the 
privileged  stratum  of  society.  In  the  early  years  of  the  empire,  all 
Ottoman  high  officials  were  the  sultan's  bondsmen,  the  children 
of  Christian  subjects  chosen  in  childhood  for  their  promise,  con- 
verted to  Islam,  and  educated  to  serve.  Some  were  selected  from 
prisoners  of  war,  others  sent  as  gifts,  and  still  others  obtained 
through  devshirme,  the  tribute  of  children  levied  in  the  Ottoman  Em- 
pire's Balkan  lands.  Many  of  the  best  fighters  in  the  sultan's  elite 


12 


Historical  Setting 


guard,  the  janissaries  (see  Glossary),  were  conscripted  as  young 
boys  from  Christian  Albanian  families,  and  high-ranking  Ottoman 
officials  often  had  Albanian  bodyguards. 

In  the  early  seventeenth  century,  many  Albanian  converts  to  Is- 
lam migrated  elsewhere  within  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  found 
careers  in  the  Ottoman  military  and  government.  Some  attained 
powerful  positions  in  the  Ottoman  administration.  About  thirty 
Albanians  rose  to  the  position  of  grand  vizier,  chief  deputy  to  the 
sultan  himself.  In  the  second  half  of  the  seventeenth  century,  the 
Albanian  Kopriilu  family  provided  four  grand  viziers,  who  fought 
against  corruption,  temporarily  shored  up  eroding  central  govern- 
ment control  over  rapacious  local  beys,  and  won  several  military 
victories. 

The  Ottoman  Turks  divided  the  Albanian-inhabited  lands  among 
a  number  of  districts,  or  vilayets.  The  Ottoman  authorities  did 
not  initially  stress  conversion  to  Islam.  In  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries,  however,  economic  pressures  and  coercion 
produced  the  conversion  of  about  two-thirds  of  the  empire's  Al- 
banians. 

The  Ottoman  Turks  first  focused  their  conversion  campaigns 
on  the  Roman  Catholic  Albanians  of  the  north  and  then  on  the 
Orthodox  population  of  the  south.  The  authorities  increased  tax- 
es, especially  poll  taxes,  to  make  conversion  economically  attrac- 
tive. During  and  after  a  Christian  counteroffensive  against  the 
Ottoman  Empire  from  1687  to  1690,  when  Albanian  Catholics 
revolted  against  their  Muslim  overlords,  the  Ottoman  pasha  of  Pec, 
a  town  in  the  south  of  present-day  Yugoslavia,  retaliated  by  forc- 
ing entire  Albanian  villages  to  accept  Islam.  Albanian  beys  then 
moved  from  the  northern  mountains  to  the  fertile  lands  of  Koso- 
vo, which  had  been  abandoned  by  thousands  of  Orthodox  Serbs 
fearing  reprisals  for  their  collaboration  with  the  Christian  forces. 

Most  of  the  conversions  to  Islam  took  place  in  the  lowlands  of 
the  Shkumbin  River  valley,  where  the  Ottoman  Turks  could  easily 
apply  pressure  because  of  the  area's  accessibility.  Many  Albanians, 
however,  converted  in  name  only  and  secretly  continued  to  prac- 
tice Christianity.  Often  one  branch  of  a  family  became  Muslim 
while  another  remained  Christian,  and  many  times  these  families 
celebrated  their  respective  religious  holidays  together.  As  early  as 
the  eighteenth  century,  a  mystic  Islamic  sect,  the  Bektashi  dervishes, 
spread  into  the  empire's  Albanian-populated  lands.  Probably  found- 
ed in  the  late  thirteenth  century  in  Anatolia,  Bektashism  became 
the  janissaries'  official  faith  in  the  late  sixteenth  century.  The  Bek- 
tashi sect  contains  features  of  the  Turks'  pre-Islamic  religion  and 


13 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

emphasizes  man  as  an  individual.  Women,  unveiled,  participate 
in  Bektashi  ceremonies  on  an  equal  basis,  and  the  celebrants  use 
wine  despite  the  ban  on  alcohol  in  the  Quran.  The  Bektashis  be- 
came the  largest  religious  group  in  southern  Albania  after  the  sul- 
tan disbanded  the  janissaries  in  1826.  Bektashi  leaders  played  key 
roles  in  the  Albanian  nationalist  movement  of  the  late  nineteenth 
century  and  were  to  a  great  degree  responsible  for  the  Albanians' 
traditional  tolerance  of  religious  differences. 

During  the  centuries  of  Ottoman  rule,  the  Albanian  lands  re- 
mained one  of  Europe's  most  backward  areas.  In  the  mountains 
north  of  the  Shkumbin  River,  Geg  herders  maintained  their  self- 
governing  society  comprised  of  clans.  An  association  of  clans  was 
called  a  bajrak  (see  Glossary).  Taxes  on  the  northern  tribes  were 
difficult  if  not  impossible  for  the  Ottomans  to  collect  because  of 
the  rough  terrain  and  fierceness  of  the  Albanian  highlanders.  Some 
mountain  tribes  succeeded  in  defending  their  independence  through 
the  centuries  of  Ottoman  rule,  engaging  in  intermittent  guerrilla 
warfare  with  the  Ottoman  Turks,  who  never  deemed  it  worthwhile 
to  subjugate  them.  Until  recent  times,  Geg  clan  chiefs,  or  bajrak- 
tars,  exercised  patriarchal  powers,  arranged  marriages,  mediated 
quarrels,  and  meted  out  punishments.  The  tribesmen  of  the  north- 
ern Albanian  mountains  recognized  no  law  but  the  Code  of  Lek, 
a  collection  of  tribal  laws  transcribed  in  the  fourteenth  century  by 
a  Roman  Catholic  priest.  The  code  regulates  a  variety  of  subjects, 
including  blood  vengeance.  Even  today,  many  Albanian  highlanders 
regard  the  canon  as  the  supreme  law  of  the  land. 

South  of  the  Shkumbin  River,  the  mostiy  peasant  Tosks  lived 
in  compact  villages  under  elected  rulers.  Some  Tosks  living  in 
settlements  high  in  the  mountains  maintained  their  independence 
and  often  escaped  payment  of  taxes.  The  Tosks  of  the  lowlands, 
however,  were  easy  for  the  Ottoman  authorities  to  control.  The 
Albanian  tribal  system  disappeared  there,  and  the  Ottomans  im- 
posed a  system  of  military  fiefs  under  which  the  sultan  granted 
soldiers  and  cavalrymen  temporary  landholdings,  or  timars,  in  ex- 
change for  military  service.  By  the  eighteenth  century,  many  mili- 
tary fiefs  had  effectively  become  the  hereditary  landholdings  of 
economically  and  politically  powerful  families  who  squeezed  wealth 
from  their  hard-strapped  Christian  and  Muslim  tenant  farmers.  The 
beys,  like  the  clan  chiefs  of  the  northern  mountains,  became  virtual- 
ly independent  rulers  in  their  own  provinces,  had  their  own  military 
contingents,  and  often  waged  war  against  each  other  to  increase 
their  landholdings  and  power.  The  Sublime  Porte  (see  Glossary) 
attempted  to  press  a  divide-and-rule  policy  to  keep  the  local  beys 


14 


Historical  Setting 


from  uniting  and  posing  a  threat  to  Ottoman  rule  itself,  but  with 
little  success. 

Local  Albanian  Leaders  in  the  Early  Nineteenth  Century 

The  weakening  of  Ottoman  central  authority  and  the  timar  sys- 
tem brought  anarchy  to  the  Albanian-populated  lands.  In  the  late 
eighteenth  century,  two  Albanian  centers  of  power  emerged: 
Shkoder,  under  the  Bushati  family;  and  Janina,  under  Ali  Pasha 
of  Tepelene.  When  it  suited  their  goals,  both  places  cooperated 
with  the  Sublime  Porte,  and  when  it  was  expedient  to  defy  the  cen- 
tral government,  each  acted  independently. 

The  Bushati  family  dominated  the  Shkoder  region  through  a  net- 
work of  alliances  with  various  highland  tribes.  Kara  Mahmud 
Bushati  attempted  to  establish  an  autonomous  principality  and  ex- 
pand the  lands  under  his  control  by  playing  off  Austria  and  Rus- 
sia against  the  Sublime  Porte.  In  1785  Kara  Mahmud's  forces 
attacked  Montenegrin  territory,  and  Austria  offered  to  recognize 
him  as  the  ruler  of  all  Albania  if  he  would  ally  himself  with  Vienna 
against  the  Sublime  Porte.  Seizing  an  opportunity,  Kara  Mahmud 
sent  the  sultan  the  heads  of  an  Austrian  delegation  in  1788,  and 
the  Ottomans  appointed  him  governor  of  Shkoder.  When  he  at- 
tempted to  wrest  land  from  Montenegro  in  1796,  however,  he  was 
defeated  and  beheaded.  Kara  Mahmud's  brother,  Ibrahim,  cooper- 
ated with  the  Sublime  Porte  until  his  death  in  1810,  but  his  suc- 
cessor, Mustafa  Pasha  Bushati,  proved  to  be  recalcitrant  despite 
participation  in  Ottoman  military  campaigns  against  Greek  revolu- 
tionaries and  rebel  pashas.  He  cooperated  with  the  mountain  tribes 
and  brought  a  large  area  under  his  control. 

Ali  Pasha  (1741-1822),  the  Lion  of  Janina,  was  born  to  a  power- 
ful clan  from  Tepelene  and  spent  much  of  his  youth  as  a  bandit. 
He  rose  to  become  governor  of  the  Ottoman  province  of  Rume- 
lia,  which  included  Albania,  Macedonia,  and  Thrace,  before  es- 
tablishing himself  in  Janina.  Like  Kara  Mahmud  Bushati,  Ali  Pasha 
wanted  to  create  an  autonomous  state  under  his  rule.  When  Ali 
Pasha  forged  links  with  the  Greek  revolutionaries,  Sultan  Mah- 
mud II  decided  to  destroy  him.  The  sultan  first  discharged  the  Al- 
banian from  his  official  posts  and  recalled  him  to  Constantinople. 
Ali  Pasha  refused  and  put  up  a  formidable  resistance  that  Britain's 
Lord  Byron  immortalized  in  poems  and  letters.  In  January  1822, 
however,  Ottoman  agents  assassinated  Ali  Pasha  and  sent  his  head 
to  Constantinople.  Nevertheless,  it  took  eight  more  years  before 
the  Sublime  Porte  would  move  against  Mustafa  Pasha  Bushati.  The 
sultan  sent  Reshid  Pasha,  an  Ottoman  general,  to  Bitola  (then  called 
Monastir,  in  Macedonia),  where  he  invited  1,000  Muslim  Albanian 


15 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

leaders  to  meet  him;  in  August  1830  Reshid  Pasha  had  about  500 
of  the  Albanian  leaders  killed.  He  then  turned  on  Mustafa  Pasha, 
who  surrendered  and  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  as  an  official  in  Con- 
stantinople. 

After  crushing  the  Bushatis  and  Ali  Pasha,  the  Sublime  Porte 
introduced  a  series  of  reforms,  known  as  the  tanzimat,  which  were 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  empire  by  reining  in  fractious  pashas. 
The  government  organized  a  recruitment  program  for  the  mili- 
tary and  opened  Turkish-language  schools  to  propagate  Islam  and 
instill  loyalty  to  the  empire.  The  timars  officially  became  large  in- 
dividual landholdings,  especially  in  the  lowlands.  In  1835  the  Sub- 
lime Porte  divided  the  Albanian-populated  lands  into  the  vilayets 
of  Janina  and  Rumelia  and  dispatched  officials  from  Constantinople 
to  administer  them.  After  1865  the  central  authorities  redivided 
the  Albanian  lands  among  the  vilayets  of  Shkoder,  Janina,  Bitola, 
and  Kosovo.  The  reforms  angered  the  highland  Albanian  chief- 
tains, who  found  their  privileges  reduced  with  no  apparent  com- 
pensation, and  the  authorities  eventually  abandoned  efforts  to 
control  the  chieftains.  Ottoman  troops  crushed  local  rebellions  in 
the  lowlands,  however,  and  conditions  there  remained  bleak.  Large 
numbers  of  Tosks  emigrated  to  join  sizable  Albanian  emigre  com- 
munities in  Romania,  Egypt,  Bulgaria,  Constantinople,  southern 
Italy,  and  later  the  United  States.  As  a  result  of  contacts  main- 
tained between  the  Tosks  and  their  relatives  living  or  returning 
from  abroad,  foreign  ideas  began  to  seep  into  Albania. 

National  Awakening  and  the  Birth  of  Albania,  1876- 
1918 

By  the  1870s,  the  Sublime  Porte's  reforms  aimed  at  checking 
the  Ottoman  Empire's  disintegration  had  clearly  failed.  The  im- 
age of  the  "Turkish  yoke"  had  become  fixed  in  the  nationalist 
mythologies  and  psyches  of  the  empire's  Balkan  peoples,  and  their 
march  toward  independence  quickened.  The  Albanians,  because 
of  the  preponderance  of  Muslims  who  had  links  with  Islam  and 
internal  social  divisions,  were  the  last  of  the  Balkan  peoples  to  de- 
velop a  national  consciousness.  That  consciousness  was  triggered 
by  fears  that  the  Ottoman  Empire  would  lose  its  Albanian-populated 
lands  to  the  emerging  Balkan  states — Serbia,  Montenegro,  Bul- 
garia, and  Greece.  In  1878  Albanian  leaders  formed  the  Prizren 
League,  which  pressed  for  territorial  autonomy;  and  after  decades 
of  unrest  a  major  uprising  exploded  in  the  Albanian-populated  Ot- 
toman territories  in  1912,  on  the  eve  of  the  First  Balkan  War.  When 
Serbia,  Montenegro,  and  Greece  laid  claim  to  Albanian  lands  dur- 
ing the  war,  the  Albanians  declared  independence.  The  European 


16 


Historical  Setting 


Great  Powers  endorsed  an  independent  Albania  in  1913,  after  the 
Second  Balkan  War.  The  young  state,  however,  collapsed  within 
weeks  of  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I. 

The  Rise  of  Albanian  Nationalism 

The  1877-78  Russo-Turkish  War  dealt  a  decisive  blow  to  Otto- 
man power  in  the  Balkan  Peninsula,  leaving  the  empire  with  only 
a  precarious  hold  on  Macedonia  and  the  Albanian-populated  lands. 
The  Albanians'  fear  that  the  lands  they  inhabited  would  be  parti- 
tioned among  Montenegro,  Serbia,  Bulgaria,  and  Greece  fueled 
the  rise  of  Albanian  nationalism.  The  first  postwar  treaty,  the  abor- 
tive Treaty  of  San  Stefano  (see  Glossary)  signed  on  March  3,  1878, 
assigned  Albanian-populated  lands  to  Serbia,  Montenegro,  and  Bul- 
garia. Austria- Hungary  and  Britain  blocked  the  arrangement  be- 
cause it  awarded  Russia  a  predominant  position  in  the  Balkans  and 
thereby  upset  the  European  balance  of  power.  A  peace  conference 
to  settle  the  dispute  was  held  later  in  the  year  in  Berlin. 

The  Treaty  of  San  Stefano  triggered  profound  anxiety  among  the 
Albanians  meanwhile,  and  it  spurred  their  leaders  to  organize  a 
defense  of  the  lands  they  inhabited.  In  the  spring  of  1878,  influen- 
tial Albanians  in  Constantinople — including  Abdyl  Frasheri,  the 
Albanian  national  movement's  leading  figure  during  its  early 
years — organized  a  secret  committee  to  direct  the  Albanians' 
resistance.  In  May  the  group  called  for  a  general  meeting  of  represen- 
tatives from  all  the  Albanian-populated  lands.  On  June  10,  1878, 
about  eighty  delegates,  mosdy  Muslim  religious  leaders,  clan  chiefs, 
and  other  influential  people  from  the  four  Albanian-populated  Ot- 
toman vilayets,  met  in  the  Kosovo  town  of  Prizren.  The  delegates 
set  up  a  standing  organization,  the  Prizren  League,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  a  central  committee  that  had  the  power  to  impose  taxes  and 
raise  an  army.  The  Prizren  League  worked  to  gain  autonomy  for 
the  Albanians  and  to  thwart  implementation  of  the  Treaty  of  San 
Stefano,  but  not  to  create  an  independent  Albania. 

At  first  the  Ottoman  authorities  supported  the  Prizren  League, 
but  the  Sublime  Porte  pressed  the  delegates  to  declare  themselves 
to  be  first  and  foremost  Ottomans  rather  than  Albanians.  Some 
delegates  supported  this  position  and  advocated  emphasizing  Mus- 
lim solidarity  and  the  defense  of  Muslim  lands,  including  pres- 
ent-day Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Other  representatives,  under 
Frasheri 's  leadership,  focused  on  working  toward  Albanian  auton- 
omy and  creating  a  sense  of  Albanian  identity  that  would  cut  across 
religious  and  tribal  lines.  Because  conservative  Muslims  constituted 
a  majority  of  the  representatives,  the  Prizren  League  supported 
maintenance  of  Ottoman  suzerainty. 


17 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

In  July  1878,  the  league  sent  a  memorandum  to  the  Great  Pow- 
ers at  the  Congress  of  Berlin,  which  had  been  called  to  settle  the 
unresolved  problems  of  the  Russo-Turkish  War.  The  memoran- 
dum demanded  that  all  Albanians  be  united  in  a  single  Ottoman 
province  that  would  be  governed  from  Bitola  by  a  Turkish  gover- 
nor, who  would  be  advised  by  an  Albanian  committee  elected  by 
universal  suffrage. 

The  Congress  of  Berlin  ignored  the  league's  memorandum,  and 
Germany's  Otto  von  Bismarck  even  proclaimed  that  an  Albanian 
nation  did  not  exist.  The  congress  ceded  to  Montenegro  the  cities 
of  Bar  and  Podgorica  and  areas  around  the  mountain  villages  of 
Gusinje  and  Plav,  which  Albanian  leaders  considered  Albanian  ter- 
ritory. Serbia  also  won  Albanian- inhabited  lands.  The  Albanians, 
the  vast  majority  loyal  to  the  empire,  vehemently  opposed  the  ter- 
ritorial losses.  Albanians  also  feared  the  possible  loss  of  Epirus  to 
Greece.  The  Prizren  League  organized  armed  resistance  efforts  in 
Gusinje,  Plav,  Shkoder,  Prizren,  Prevesa,  and  Janina.  A  border 
tribesman  at  the  time  described  the  frontier  as  "floating  on  blood. ' ' 

In  August  1878,  the  Congress  of  Berlin  ordered  a  commission 
to  trace  a  border  between  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  Montenegro. 
The  congress  also  directed  Greece  and  the  Ottoman  Empire  to 
negotiate  a  solution  to  their  border  dispute.  The  Great  Powers  ex- 
pected the  Ottomans  to  ensure  that  the  Albanians  would  respect 
the  new  borders;  they  ignored  the  fact  that  the  sultan's  military 
forces  were  too  weak  to  enforce  any  settlement  and  that  the  Otto- 
mans could  only  benefit  by  the  Albanians'  resistance.  The  Sub- 
lime Porte,  in  fact,  armed  the  Albanians  and  allowed  them  to  levy 
taxes,  and  when  the  Ottoman  army  withdrew  from  areas  awarded 
to  Montenegro  under  the  Treaty  of  Berlin,  Roman  Catholic  Al- 
banian tribesmen  simply  took  control.  The  Albanians'  successful 
resistance  to  the  treaty  forced  the  Great  Powers  to  alter  the  bor- 
der, returning  Gusinje  and  Plav  to  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  grant- 
ing Montenegro  the  mostly  Muslim  Albanian-populated  coastal 
town  of  Ulcinj .  But  the  Albanians  there  refused  to  surrender  as 
well.  Finally,  the  Great  Powers  blockaded  Ulcinj  by  sea  and  pres- 
sured the  Ottoman  authorities  to  bring  the  Albanians  under 
control.  The  Great  Powers  decided  in  1881  to  cede  Greece  only 
Thessaly  and  the  small  Albanian-populated  district  of  Arta. 

Faced  with  growing  international  pressure  to  "pacify"  the  refrac- 
tory Albanians,  the  sultan  dispatched  a  large  army  under  Dervish 
Turgut  Pasha  to  suppress  the  Prizren  League  and  deliver  Ulcinj 
to  Montenegro.  Albanians  loyal  to  the  empire  supported  the  Sub- 
lime Porte's  military  intervention.  In  April  1881 ,  Dervish  Pasha's 
10,000  men  captured  Prizren  and  later  crushed  the  resistance  at 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Ulcinj.  The  Prizren  League's  leaders  and  their  families  were  ar- 
rested and  deported.  Frasheri,  who  originally  received  a  death  sen- 
tence, was  imprisoned  until  1885  and  exiled  until  his  death  seven 
years  later.  In  the  three  years  it  survived,  the  Prizren  League  ef- 
fectively made  the  Great  Powers  aware  of  the  Albanian  people  and 
their  national  interests.  Montenegro  and  Greece  received  much 
less  Albanian-populated  territory  than  they  would  have  won  without 
the  league's  resistance. 

Formidable  barriers  frustrated  Albanian  leaders'  efforts  to  in- 
still in  their  people  an  Albanian  rather  than  an  Ottoman  identity. 
Divided  into  four  vilayets,  Albanians  had  no  common  geographi- 
cal or  political  nerve  center.  The  Albanians'  religious  differences 
forced  nationalist  leaders  to  give  the  national  movement  a  purely 
secular  character  that  alienated  religious  leaders.  The  most  signifi- 
cant factor  uniting  the  Albanians,  their  spoken  language,  lacked 
a  standard  literary  form  and  even  a  standard  alphabet.  Each  of 
the  three  available  choices,  the  Latin,  Cyrillic,  and  Arabic  scripts, 
implied  different  political  and  religious  orientations  opposed  by  one 
or  another  element  of  the  population.  In  1878  there  were  no 
Albanian-language  schools  in  the  most  developed  of  the  Albanian- 
inhabited  areas — Gjirokaster,  Berat,  and  Vlore — where  schools 
conducted  classes  either  in  Turkish  or  in  Greek  (see  Education: 
Pre-Communist  Era,  ch.  2). 

In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  Albanian  intellectuals  began  devis- 
ing a  single,  standard  Albanian  literary  language  and  making  de- 
mands that  it  be  used  in  schools.  In  Constantinople  in  1879,  Sami 
Frasheri  founded  a  cultural  and  educational  organization,  the  So- 
ciety for  the  Printing  of  Albanian  Writings,  whose  membership 
comprised  Muslim,  Catholic,  and  Orthodox  Albanians.  Nairn 
Frasheri,  the  most-renowned  Albanian  poet,  joined  the  society  and 
wrote  and  edited  textbooks.  Albanian  emigres  in  Bulgaria,  Egypt, 
Italy,  Romania,  and  the  United  States  supported  the  society's  work. 
Others  opposed  it.  The  Greeks,  who  dominated  the  education  of 
Orthodox  Albanians,  joined  the  Turks  in  suppressing  the  Albani- 
ans' culture,  especially  Albanian-language  education.  In  1886  the 
ecumenical  patriarch  of  Constantinople  threatened  to  excommu- 
nicate anyone  found  reading  or  writing  Albanian,  and  priests  taught 
that  God  would  not  understand  prayers  uttered  in  Albanian. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  continued  to  crumble  after  the  Congress 
of  Berlin.  The  empire's  financial  troubles  prevented  Sultan  Abdul 
Hamid  II  from  reforming  his  military,  and  he  resorted  to  repres- 
sion to  maintain  order.  The  authorities  strove  without  success  to 
control  the  political  situation  in  the  empire's  Albanian-populated 
lands,  arresting  suspected  nationalist  activists.  When  the  sultan 


19 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

refused  Albanian  demands  for  unification  of  the  four  Albanian- 
populated  vilayets,  Albanian  leaders  reorganized  the  Prizren  League 
and  incited  uprisings  that  brought  the  Albanian  lands,  especially 
Kosovo,  to  near  anarchy.  The  imperial  authorities  again  disband- 
ed the  Prizren  League  in  1897,  executed  its  president  in  1902,  and 
banned  Albanian-language  books  and  correspondence.  In  Macedo- 
nia, where  Bulgarian-,  Greek-,  and  Serbian -backed  terrorists  were 
fighting  Ottoman  authorities  and  one  another  for  control,  Mus- 
lim Albanians  suffered  attacks,  and  Albanian  guerrilla  groups 
retaliated.  In  1906  Albanian  leaders  meeting  in  Bitola  established 
the  secret  Committee  for  the  Liberation  of  Albania.  A  year  later, 
Albanian  guerrillas  assassinated  the  Greek  Orthodox  metropoli- 
tan of  Korce. 

In  1906  opposition  groups  in  the  Ottoman  Empire  emerged,  one 
of  which  evolved  into  the  Committee  of  Union  and  Progress,  more 
commonly  known  as  the  Young  Turks,  which  proposed  restoring 
constitutional  government  in  Constantinople,  by  revolution  if  neces- 
sary. In  July  1908,  a  month  after  a  Young  Turk  rebellion  in 
Macedonia  supported  by  an  Albanian  uprising  in  Kosovo  and 
Macedonia  escalated  into  widespread  insurrection  and  mutiny  with- 
in the  imperial  army,  Sultan  Abdul  Hamid  II  agreed  to  demands 
by  the  Young  Turks  to  restore  constitutional  rule.  Many  Albani- 
ans participated  in  the  Young  Turks  uprising,  hoping  that  it  would 
gain  their  people  autonomy  within  the  empire .  The  Young  Turks 
lifted  the  Ottoman  ban  on  Albanian-language  schools  and  on  writing 
the  Albanian  language.  As  a  consequence,  Albanian  intellectuals 
meeting  in  Bitola  in  1908  chose  the  Latin  alphabet  as  a  standard 
script.  The  Young  Turks,  however,  were  set  on  maintaining  the 
empire  and  not  interested  in  making  concessions  to  the  myriad  na- 
tionalist groups  within  its  borders.  After  securing  the  abdication 
of  Abdul  Hamid  II  in  April  1909,  the  new  authorities  levied  tax- 
es, oudawed  guerrilla  groups  and  nationalist  societies,  and  attempt- 
ed to  extend  Constantinople's  control  over  the  northern  Albanian 
mountainmen.  In  addition,  the  Young  Turks  legalized  the  bastina- 
do, or  beating  with  a  stick,  even  for  misdemeanors,  banned  the 
carrying  of  rifles,  and  denied  the  existence  of  an  Albanian  nation- 
ality. The  new  government  also  appealed  for  Islamic  solidarity  to 
break  the  Albanians'  unity  and  used  the  Muslim  clergy  to  try  to 
impose  the  Arabic  alphabet. 

The  Albanians  refused  to  submit  to  the  Young  Turks'  campaign 
to  "Ottomanize"  them  by  force.  New  Albanian  uprisings  began 
in  Kosovo  and  the  northern  mountains  in  early  April  1910.  Otto- 
man forces  quashed  these  rebellions  after  three  months,  outlawed 
Albanian  organizations,  disarmed  entire  regions,  and  closed  down 


20 


Historical  Setting 


schools  and  publications.  Montenegro,  preparing  to  grab  Albanian- 
populated  lands  for  itself,  supported  a  191 1  uprising  by  the  moun- 
tain tribes  against  the  Young  Turks  regime;  the  uprising  grew  into 
a  widespread  revolt.  Unable  to  control  the  Albanians  by  force,  the 
Ottoman  government  granted  concessions  on  schools,  military 
recruitment,  and  taxation  and  sanctioned  the  use  of  the  Latin  script 
for  the  Albanian  language.  The  government  refused,  however,  to 
unite  the  four  Albanian-inhabited  vilayets. 

The  Balkan  Wars  and  Creation  of  Independent  Albania 

In  May  1912,  the  Albanians  once  more  rose  against  the  Otto- 
man Empire  and  took  the  Macedonian  capitol,  Skopje,  by  August. 
Stunned,  the  Young  Turks  regime  acceded  to  some  of  the  rebels' 
demands.  The  First  Balkan  War,  however,  erupted  before  a  final 
settlement  could  be  worked  out.  Most  Albanians  remained  neu- 
tral during  the  war,  during  which  the  Balkan  allies — the  Serbs, 
Bulgarians,  and  Greeks — quickly  drove  the  Turks  to  the  walls  of 
Constantinople.  The  Montenegrins  surrounded  Shkoder  with  the 
help  of  northern  Albanian  tribes  anxious  to  fight  the  Ottoman 
Turks.  Serb  forces  took  much  of  northern  Albania,  and  the  Greeks 
captured  Janina  and  parts  of  southern  Albania. 

An  assembly  of  eighty-three  Muslim  and  Christian  leaders  meet- 
ing in  Vlore  in  November  1912  declared  Albania  an  independent 
country  and  set  up  a  provisional  government.  However,  in  its  con- 
cluding Treaty  of  London  of  May  1913,  an  ambassadorial  confer- 
ence decided  the  major  questions  concerning  the  Albanians  after 
the  First  Balkan  War.  One  of  Serbia's  primary  war  aims  was  to 
gain  an  Adriatic  port,  preferably  Durres.  Austria- Hungary  and 
Italy  opposed  giving  Serbia  an  Adriatic  outiet,  which  they  feared 
would  become  a  Russian  port.  They  instead  supported  the  crea- 
tion of  an  autonomous  Albania.  Russia  backed  Serbia's  and  Mon- 
tenegro's claims  to  Albanian-inhabited  lands.  Britain  and  Germany 
remained  neutral.  Chaired  by  Britain's  foreign  secretary,  Sir  Ed- 
ward Grey,  the  ambassadors'  conference  initially  decided  to  cre- 
ate an  autonomous  Albania  under  continued  Ottoman  rule,  but 
with  the  protection  of  the  Great  Powers.  This  solution,  as  detailed 
in  the  Treaty  of  London,  was  abandoned  in  the  summer  of  1913 
when  it  became  obvious  that  the  Ottoman  Empire  would,  in  the 
Second  Balkan  War,  lose  Macedonia  and  hence  its  overland  con- 
nection with  the  Albanian-inhabited  lands. 

In  July  1913,  the  Great  Powers  opted  to  recognize  an  indepen- 
dent, neutral  Albanian  state  ruled  by  a  constitutional  monarchy 
and  under  the  protection  of  the  Great  Powers.  The  August  1913 


21 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Treaty  of  Bucharest  established  that  independent  Albania  was  a 
country  with  about  28,000  square  kilometers  of  territory  and  a 
population  of  800,000.  Montenegro,  whose  tribesmen  had  resort- 
ed to  terror,  mass  murder,  and  forced  conversion  in  territories  it 
coveted,  had  to  surrender  Shkoder.  Serbia  reluctantly  succumbed 
to  an  ultimatum  from  Austria-Hungary,  Germany,  and  Italy  to 
withdraw  from  northern  Albania.  The  treaty,  however,  left  large 
areas,  notably  Kosovo  and  western  Macedonia,  with  majority  Al- 
banian populations  outside  the  new  state  and  failed  to  solve  the 
region's  nationality  problems. 

Territorial  disputes  have  divided  the  Albanians  and  Serbs  since 
the  Middle  Ages,  but  none  more  so  than  the  clash  over  the  Koso- 
vo region.  Serbs  consider  Kosovo  their  Holy  Land.  They  argue 
that  their  ancestors  settled  in  the  region  during  the  seventh  centu- 
ry, that  medieval  Serbian  kings  were  crowned  there,  and  that  in 
the  mid-fourteenth  century  the  Serbs'  greatest  medieval  ruler, 
Stefan  Dusan,  established  the  seat  of  his  empire  for  a  time  near 
Prizren.  More  important,  numerous  Serbian  Orthodox  shrines, 
including  the  patriarchate  of  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church,  are 
located  in  Kosovo.  The  key  event  in  the  Serbs'  national  mytholo- 
gy, the  defeat  of  their  forces  by  the  Ottoman  Turks,  took  place 
at  Kosovo  Polje  in  1389.  For  their  part,  the  Albanians  claim  the 
land  based  on  the  argument  that  they  are  the  descendants  of  the 
ancient  Illyrians,  the  indigenous  people  of  the  region,  and  have 
been  there  since  before  the  first  Serb  ever  set  foot  in  the  Balkans. 
Although  the  Albanians  have  not  left  architectural  remains  simi- 
lar to  the  Serbs'  religious  shrines,  the  Albanians  point  to  the  fact 
that  Prizren  was  the  seat  of  their  first  nationalist  organization,  the 
Prizren  League,  and  call  the  region  the  cradle  of  their  national 
awakening.  Finally,  Albanians  claim  Kosovo  based  on  the  fact  that 
their  kinsmen  have  constituted  the  vast  majority  of  Kosovo's  popu- 
lation since  at  least  the  eighteenth  century. 

When  the  Great  Powers  recognized  an  independent  Albania,  they 
also  established  the  International  Control  Commission,  which  en- 
deavored to  exert  and  expand  its  authority  and  elbow  out  the  Vlore 
provisional  government  and  the  rival  government  of  Esad  Pasha 
Toptani,  who  enjoyed  the  support  of  large  landowners  in  central 
Albania  and  boasted  a  formidable  militia.  The  control  commis- 
sion drafted  a  constitution  that  provided  for  a  National  Assembly 
of  elected  local  representatives,  the  heads  of  the  Albanians'  major 
religious  groups,  ten  persons  nominated  by  the  prince,  and  other 
noteworthy  persons.  The  Great  Powers  chose  Prince  Wilhelm  of 
Wied,  a  thirty-five-year-old  German  army  captain,  to  head  the  new 


22 


Historical  Setting 


state.  In  March  1914,  he  moved  into  a  Durres  building  hastily  con- 
verted into  a  palace. 

After  independence  local  power  struggles,  foreign  provocations, 
miserable  economic  conditions,  and  modest  attempts  at  social  and 
religious  reform  fueled  Albanian  uprisings  aimed  at  the  prince  and 
the  control  commission.  Ottoman  propaganda,  which  appealed  to 
uneducated  peasants  loyal  to  Islam  and  Islamic  spiritual  leaders, 
attacked  the  Albanian  regime  as  a  puppet  of  the  large  landowners 
and  Europe's  Christian  powers.  Greece,  unhappy  that  the  Great 
Powers  did  not  award  it  southern  Albania,  also  encouraged  upris- 
ings against  the  Albanian  government,  and  armed  Greek  bands 
carried  out  atrocities  against  Albanian  villagers.  Italy  plotted  with 
Esad  Pasha  to  overthrow  the  new  prince.  Montenegro  and  Serbia 
plotted  with  the  northern  tribesmen.  For  their  part,  the  Great  Pow- 
ers gave  Prince  Wilhelm,  who  was  unversed  in  Albanian  affairs, 
intrigue,  or  diplomacy,  little  moral  or  material  backing.  A  gener- 
al insurrection  in  the  summer  of  1914  stripped  the  prince  of  con- 
trol except  in  Durres  and  Vlore. 

World  War  I  and  Its  Effects  on  Albania 

Political  chaos  engulfed  Albania  after  the  outbreak  of  World  War 
I.  Surrounded  by  insurgents  in  Durres,  Prince  Wilhelm  departed 
the  country  in  September  1914,  just  six  months  after  arriving,  and 
subsequently  joined  the  German  army  and  served  on  the  Eastern 
Front.  The  Albanian  people  split  along  religious  and  tribal  lines 
after  the  prince's  departure.  Muslims  demanded  a  Muslim  prince 
and  looked  to  Turkey  as  the  protector  of  the  privileges  they  had 
enjoyed.  Other  Albanians  became  little  more  than  agents  of  Italy 
and  Serbia.  Still  others,  including  many  beys  and  clan  chiefs,  recog- 
nized no  superior  authority.  In  late  1914,  Greece  occupied  southern 
Albania,  including  Korce  and  Gjirokaster.  Italy  occupied  Vlore, 
and  Serbia  and  Montenegro  occupied  parts  of  northern  Albania 
until  a  Central  Powers  offensive  scattered  the  Serbian  army,  which 
was  evacuated  by  the  French  to  Thessaloniki.  Austro-Hungarian 
and  Bulgarian  forces  then  occupied  about  two-thirds  of  the  country. 

Under  the  secret  Treaty  of  London  signed  in  April  1915,  the 
Triple  Entente  powers  promised  Italy  that  it  would  gain  Vlore  and 
nearby  lands  and  a  protectorate  over  Albania  in  exchange  for  en- 
tering the  war  against  Austria- Hungary.  Serbia  and  Montenegro 
were  promised  much  of  northern  Albania,  and  Greece  was  promised 
much  of  the  country's  southern  half.  The  treaty  left  a  tiny  Albani- 
an state  that  would  be  represented  by  Italy  in  its  relations  with  the 
other  major  powers.  In  September  1918,  Entente  forces  broke 
through  the  Central  Powers'  lines  north  of  Thessaloniki,  and  within 


23 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

days  Austro- Hungarian  forces  began  to  withdraw  from  Albania. 
When  the  war  ended  on  November  11,  1918,  Italy's  army  had  oc- 
cupied most  of  Albania;  Serbia  held  much  of  the  country's  north- 
ern mountains;  Greece  occupied  a  sliver  of  land  within  Albania's 
1913  borders;  and  French  forces  occupied  Korce  and  Shkoder  as 
well  as  other  regions  with  sizable  Albanian  populations,  such  as 
Kosovo,  which  were  later  handed  over  to  Serbia. 

Interwar  Albania,  1918-41 

Albania  achieved  real  statehood  after  World  War  I,  in  part 
because  of  the  diplomatic  intercession  of  the  United  States.  The 
country  suffered  from  a  debilitating  lack  of  economic  and  social 
development,  however,  and  its  first  years  of  independence  were 
fraught  with  political  instability.  Unable  to  survive  in  a  predatory 
world  without  a  foreign  protector,  Albania  became  the  object  of 
tensions  between  Italy  and  the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and 
Slovenes  (Yugoslavia),  which  were  both  bent  on  controlling  the 
country.  With  the  kingdom's  military  assistance,  Ahmed  Bey  Zogu, 
the  son  of  a  clan  chieftain,  emerged  victorious  from  an  internal 
political  power  struggle  in  late  1924.  Zogu,  however,  quickly  turned 
his  back  on  Belgrade  and  looked  to  Mussolini's  Italy  for  patronage. 
In  1928  Zogu  coaxed  the  country's  parliament  to  declare  Albania 
a  kingdom  and  name  him  king.  King  Zog  remained  a  hidebound 
conservative,  and  Albania  was  the  only  Balkan  state  where  the 
government  did  not  see  fit  to  introduce  a  comprehensive  land  re- 
form between  the  two  world  wars.  Mussolini's  forces  finally  over- 
threw Zog  when  they  occupied  Albania  in  1939. 

Albania's  Reemergence  after  World  War  I 

Albania's  political  confusion  continued  in  the  wake  of  World  War 
I.  The  country  lacked  a  single  recognized  government,  and  Alba- 
nians feared,  with  justification,  that  Greece,  Yugoslavia,  and  Italy 
would  succeed  in  extinguishing  Albania's  independence  and  carve 
up  the  country.  Italian  forces  controlled  Albanian  political  activi- 
ty in  the  areas  they  occupied.  The  Serbs,  who  largely  dictated  Yu- 
goslavia's foreign  policy  after  World  War  I,  strove  to  take  over 
northern  Albania,  and  the  Greeks  sought  to  control  southern  Al- 
bania. A  delegation  sent  by  a  postwar  Albanian  National  Assem- 
bly that  met  at  Durres  in  December  1918  defended  Albanian 
interests  at  the  Paris  Peace  Conference,  but  the  conference  denied 
Albania  official  representation.  The  National  Assembly,  anxious 
to  keep  Albania  intact,  expressed  willingness  to  accept  Italian  pro- 
tection and  even  an  Italian  prince  as  a  ruler  so  long  as  it  would 
mean  Albania  did  not  lose  territory. 


24 


Historical  Setting 


In  January  1919,  the  Serbs  attacked  the  Albanian  inhabitants 
of  Gusinje  and  Plav  with  regular  troops  and  artillery  after  the  Al- 
banians had  appealed  to  Britain  for  protection.  The  Serb  forces 
massacred  some  of  the  Albanians  and  forced  about  35,000  people 
to  flee  to  the  Shkoder  area.  In  Kosovo  the  Serbs  subjected  the  Al- 
banians to  brutalities,  stripped  them  of  territory  under  the  guise 
of  land  reform,  and  rewarded  Serb  colonists  with  homesteads.  In 
response,  Albanians  continued  guerrilla  warfare  in  both  Serbia  and 
Montenegro. 

At  the  Paris  Peace  Conference  in  January  1920,  negotiators  from 
France,  Britain,  and  Greece  agreed  to  divide  Albania  among  Yu- 
goslavia, Italy,  and  Greece  as  a  diplomatic  expedient  aimed  at  find- 
ing a  compromise  solution  to  the  territorial  conflict  between  Italy 
and  Yugoslavia.  The  deal  was  done  behind  the  Albanians'  backs 
and  in  the  absence  of  a  United  States  negotiator. 

Members  of  a  second  Albanian  National  Assembly  held  at 
Lushnje  in  January  1920  rejected  the  partition  plan  and  warned 
that  Albanians  would  take  up  arms  to  defend  their  country's  in- 
dependence and  territorial  integrity.  The  Lushnje  National  Assem- 
bly appointed  a  four-man  regency  to  rule  the  country.  A  bicameral 
parliament  was  also  created,  appointing  members  of  its  own  ranks 
to  an  upper  chamber,  the  Senate.  An  elected  lower  chamber,  the 
Chamber  of  Deputies,  had  one  deputy  for  every  12,000  people  in 
Albania  and  one  for  the  Albanian  community  in  the  United  States. 
In  February  1920,  the  government  moved  to  Tirane,  which  be- 
came Albania's  capital. 

One  month  later,  in  March  1920,  President  Woodrow  Wilson 
intervened  to  block  the  Paris  agreement.  The  United  States  un- 
derscored its  support  for  Albania's  independence  by  recognizing 
an  official  Albanian  representative  to  Washington,  and  in  December 
the  League  of  Nations  recognized  Albania's  sovereignty  by  admit- 
ting it  as  a  full  member.  The  country's  borders,  however,  remained 
unsettled. 

Albania's  new  government  campaigned  to  end  Italy's  occupa- 
tion of  the  country  and  encouraged  peasants  to  harass  Italian  forces. 
In  September  1920,  after  a  siege  of  Italian-occupied  Vlore  by  Al- 
banian forces,  Rome  abandoned  its  claims  on  Albania  under  the 
1915  Treaty  of  London  and  withdrew  its  forces  from  all  of  Alba- 
nia except  Sazan  Island  at  the  mouth  of  Vlore  Bay.  Yugoslavia, 
however,  pursued  a  predatory  policy  toward  Albania,  and  after 
Albanian  tribesmen  clashed  with  Serb  forces  occupying  the  north- 
ern part  of  the  country,  Yugoslav  troops  took  to  burning  villages 
and  killing  and  expelling  civilians.  Belgrade  then  recruited  a  dis- 
gruntled Geg  clan  chief,  Gjon  Markagjoni,  who  led  his  Roman 


25 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Catholic  Mirdite  tribesmen  in  a  rebellion  against  the  regency  and 
parliament.  Markagjoni  proclaimed  the  founding  of  an  indepen- 
dent "Mirdite  Republic"  based  in  Prizren,  which  had  fallen  into 
Serbian  hands  during  the  First  Balkan  War.  Finally,  in  Novem- 
ber 1921,  Yugoslav  troops  invaded  Albanian  territory  beyond  the 
areas  they  were  already  occupying.  Outraged  at  the  Yugoslav  at- 
tack and  Belgrade's  lies,  the  League  of  Nations  dispatched  a  com- 
mission composed  of  representatives  of  Britain,  France,  Italy,  and 
Japan  that  reaffirmed  Albania's  1913  borders.  Yugoslavia  com- 
plained bitterly  but  had  no  choice  but  to  withdraw  its  troops.  The 
so-called  Mirdite  Republic  disappeared. 

Social  and  Economic  Conditions  after  World  War  I 

Extraordinarily  undeveloped,  the  Albania  that  emerged  after 
World  War  I  was  home  to  something  less  than  a  million  people 
divided  into  three  major  religious  groups  and  two  distinct  classes: 
those  people  who  owned  land  and  claimed  semifeudal  privileges 
and  those  who  did  not.  The  landowners  had  always  held  the  prin- 
cipal ruling  posts  in  the  country's  central  and  southern  regions, 
but  many  of  them  were  steeped  in  the  same  Oriental  conservatism 
that  had  brought  decay  to  the  Ottoman  Empire.  The  landowning 
elite  expected  that  they  would  continue  to  enjoy  precedence.  The 
country's  peasants,  however,  were  beginning  to  dispute  the  landed 
aristocracy's  control.  Muslims  made  up  the  majority  of  the  land- 
owning class  as  well  as  most  of  the  pool  of  Ottoman-trained  admin- 
istrators and  officials.  Thus  Muslims  filled  most  of  the  country's 
administrative  posts. 

In  northern  Albania,  the  government  directly  controlled  only 
Shkoder  and  its  environs.  The  highland  clans  were  suspicious  of 
a  constitutional  government  legislating  in  the  interests  of  the  country 
as  a  whole,  and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  became  the  principal 
link  between  Tirane  and  the  tribesmen.  In  many  instances,  ad- 
ministrative communications  were  addressed  to  priests  for  circu- 
lation among  their  parishioners. 

Poor  and  remote,  Albania  remained  decades  behind  other  Balkan 
countries  in  educational  and  social  development.  Illiteracy  plagued 
almost  the  entire  population.  About  90  percent  of  the  country's 
peasants  practiced  subsistence  agriculture,  using  ancient  methods 
and  tools,  such  as  wooden  plows.  Much  of  the  country's  richest 
farmland  lay  under  water  in  malaria-infested  coastal  marshlands. 
Albania  lacked  a  banking  system,  a  railroad,  a  modern  port,  an 
efficient  military,  a  university,  and  a  modern  press.  The  Albani- 
ans had  Europe's  highest  birthrate  and  infant  mortality  rate,  and 
life  expectancy  for  men  was  about  thirty-eight  years.  In  the  post 


26 


Historical  Setting 


World  War  I  period,  the  American  Red  Cross  opened  schools  and 
hospitals  at  Durres  and  Tirane,  and  one  Red  Cross  worker  found- 
ed an  Albanian  chapter  of  the  Boy  Scouts  that  all  boys  between 
twelve  and  eighteen  years  old  were  subsequently  required  by  law 
to  join.  Although  hundreds  of  schools  opened  across  the  country, 
in  1938  only  36  percent  of  Albanian  children  of  school  age  were 
receiving  education  of  any  kind. 

Despite  the  meager  educational  opportunities,  literature  flour- 
ished in  Albania  between  the  two  world  wars.  A  Franciscan  priest, 
Gjergj  Fishta,  Albania's  greatest  poet,  dominated  the  literary  scene 
with  his  poems  on  the  Albanians'  perseverance  during  their  quest 
for  freedom. 

Independence  also  brought  changes  to  religious  life  in  Albania. 
The  ecumenical  patriarch  of  Constantinople  recognized  the  au- 
tocephaly  of  the  Albanian  Orthodox  Church  after  a  meeting  of  the 
country's  Albanian  Orthodox  congregations  in  Berat  in  August 
1922.  The  most  energetic  reformers  in  Albania  came  from  the  Or- 
thodox, who  wanted  to  see  Albania  move  quickly  away  from  its 
Muslim,  Turkish  past,  during  which  Christians  made  up  the  un- 
derclass. Albania's  conservative  Sunni  Muslim  community  broke 
its  last  ties  with  Constantinople  in  1923,  formally  declaring  that 
there  had  been  no  caliph  (see  Glossary)  since  the  Prophet  Muham- 
mad himself  and  that  Muslim  Albanians  pledged  primary  alle- 
giance to  their  native  country.  The  Muslims  also  banned  polygyny 
and  allowed  women  to  choose  whether  or  not  to  wear  a  veil. 

Government  and  Politics 

Albania's  first  political  parties  emerged  only  after  World  War 
I.  Even  more  than  in  other  parts  of  the  Balkans,  political  parties 
were  impermanent  gatherings  centered  on  prominent  persons  who 
created  temporary  alliances  to  achieve  their  personal  aims.  The 
major  conservative  party,  the  Progressive  Party,  attracted  some 
northern  clan  chiefs  and  prominent  Muslim  landholders  of  southern 
Albania  whose  main  platform  was  firm  opposition  to  any  agricul- 
tural reform  program  that  would  transfer  their  lands  to  the  peasan- 
try. The  country's  biggest  landowner,  Shefqet  Bey  Verlaci,  led  the 
Progressive  Party.  The  Popular  Party's  ranks  included  the  reform- 
minded  Orthodox  bishop  of  Durres,  Fan  S.  Noli,  who  was  imbued 
with  Western  ideas  at  his  alma  mater,  Harvard  University,  and 
had  even  translated  Shakespeare  and  Ibsen  into  Albanian.  The 
Popular  Party  also  included  Ahmed  Zogu,  the  twenty-four- year- 
old  son  of  the  chief  of  the  Mati,  a  central  Albanian  Muslim  tribe. 
The  future  King  Zog  drew  his  support  from  some  northern  clans 


27 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

and  kept  an  armed  gang  in  his  service,  but  many  Geg  clan  leaders 
refused  to  support  either  main  party. 

Interwar  Albanian  governments  appeared  and  disappeared  in 
rapid  succession.  Between  July  and  December  1921  alone,  the 
premiership  changed  hands  five  times.  The  Popular  Party's  head, 
Xhafer  Ypi,  formed  a  government  in  December  1921,  with  Noli 
as  foreign  minister  and  Zogu  as  internal  affairs  minister.  Noli, 
however,  resigned  soon  after  Zogu,  in  an  attempt  to  disarm  the 
lowland  Albanians,  resorted  to  repression,  despite  the  fact  that  bear- 
ing arms  was  a  traditional  custom.  When  the  government's  ene- 
mies attacked  Tirane  in  early  1922,  Zogu  stayed  in  the  capital  and, 
with  the  help  of  the  British  ambassador,  repulsed  the  assault.  He 
took  over  the  premiership  later  in  the  year  and  turned  his  back 
on  the  Popular  Party  by  announcing  his  engagement  to  the  daughter 
of  the  Progressive  Party  leader,  Shefqet  Beg  Verlaci. 

Zogu's  proteges  organized  themselves  into  the  Government 
Party.  Noli  and  other  Western-oriented  leaders  formed  the  Oppo- 
sition Party  of  Democrats,  which  attracted  Zogu's  many  personal 
enemies,  ideological  opponents,  and  people  left  unrewarded  by  his 
political  machine.  Ideologically,  the  Democrats  included  a  broad 
sweep  of  people  who  advocated  everything  from  conservative  Is- 
lam to  Noli's  dreams  of  rapid  modernization.  Opposition  to  Zogu 
was  formidable.  Orthodox  peasants  in  Albania's  southern  lowlands 
loathed  Zogu  because  he  supported  the  Muslim  landowners'  ef- 
forts to  block  land  reform;  Shkoder's  citizens  felt  shortchanged  be- 
cause their  city  did  not  become  Albania's  capital;  and  nationalists 
were  dissatisfied  because  Zogu's  government  did  not  press  Alba- 
nia's claims  to  Kosovo  or  speak  up  more  energetically  for  the  rights 
of  the  ethnic  Albanian  minorities  in  present-day  Yugoslavia  and 
Greece. 

Zogu's  party  handily  won  elections  for  a  National  Assembly  in 
early  1924.  Zogu  soon  stepped  aside,  however,  handing  over  the 
premiership  to  Verlaci  in  the  wake  of  a  financial  scandal  and  an 
assassination  attempt  by  a  young  radical  that  left  Zogu  wounded. 
The  opposition  withdrew  from  the  assembly  after  the  leader  of  a 
radical  youth  organization,  Avni  Rustemi,  was  murdered  in  the 
street  outside  the  parliament  building.  Noli's  supporters  blamed 
the  murder  on  Zogu's  Mati  clansmen,  who  continued  to  practice 
blood  vengeance.  After  the  walkout,  discontent  mounted,  and  by 
July  1924  a  peasant-backed  insurgency  had  won  control  of  Tirane. 
Noli  became  prime  minister,  and  Zogu  fled  to  Yugoslavia. 

Fan  Noli,  an  idealist,  rejected  demands  for  new  elections  on  the 
grounds  that  Albania  needed  a  "paternal"  government.  In  a 
manifesto  describing  his  government's  program,  Noli  called  for 


28 


Historical  Setting 


abolishing  feudalism,  resisting  Italian  domination,  and  establish- 
ing a  Western-style  constitutional  government.  Scaling  back  the 
bureaucracy,  strengthening  local  government,  assisting  peasants, 
throwing  Albania  open  to  foreign  investment,  and  improving  the 
country's  bleak  transportation,  public  health,  and  education  facil- 
ities filled  out  the  Noli  government's  overly  ambitious  agenda.  Noli, 
however,  encountered  resistance  to  his  program  from  people  who 
had  helped  him  oust  Zogu,  and  he  never  attracted  the  foreign  aid 
necessary  to  carry  out  his  reform  plans.  Concerned  over  potential 
Italian  domination,  Noli  criticized  the  League  of  Nations  for  fail- 
ing to  settle  the  threat  facing  Albania  on  its  land  borders. 

Under  Fan  Noli,  the  government  set  up  a  special  tribunal  that 
passed  death  sentences,  in  absentia,  on  Zogu,  Verlaci,  and  others 
and  confiscated  their  property.  In  Yugoslavia  Zogu  recruited  a 
mercenary  army,  and  Belgrade  furnished  the  Albanian  leader  with 
weapons,  about  1,000  Yugoslav  army  regulars,  and  refugee  troops 
from  the  Russian  Civil  War  to  mount  an  invasion  that  the  Serbs 
hoped  would  bring  them  disputed  areas  along  the  border.  After 
Noli's  regime  decided  to  establish  diplomatic  relations  with  the 
Soviet  Union,  a  bitter  enemy  of  the  Serbian  ruling  family,  Bel- 
grade began  making  wild  allegations  that  the  Albanian  regime  was 
about  to  embrace  Bolshevism.  On  December  13,  1924,  Zogu's 
Yugoslav-backed  army  crossed  into  Albanian  territory.  By  Christ- 
mas Eve,  Zogu  had  reclaimed  the  capital,  and  Noli  and  his  govern- 
ment had  fled  to  Italy. 

Zogu  quickly  smothered  Albania's  experiment  in  parliamentary 
democracy.  Looking  after  the  interests  of  the  large  landowners, 
clan  chiefs,  and  others  with  a  vested  interest  in  maintaining  the 
old  order,  he  undertook  no  serious  reform  measures.  The  parlia- 
ment quickly  adopted  a  new  constitution,  proclaimed  Albania  a 
republic,  and  granted  Zogu  dictatorial  powers  that  allowed  him 
to  appoint  and  dismiss  ministers,  veto  legislation,  and  name  all 
major  administrative  personnel  and  a  third  of  the  Senate.  On  Janu- 
ary 31 ,  Zogu  was  elected  president  for  a  seven-year  term.  Opposi- 
tion parties  and  civil  liberties  disappeared,  opponents  of  the  regime 
were  murdered,  and  the  press  suffered  strict  censorship.  Zogu  ruled 
Albania  using  four  military  governors  responsible  to  him  alone. 
He  appointed  clan  chieftains  as  reserve  army  officers,  who  were 
kept  on  call  to  protect  the  regime  against  domestic  or  foreign  threats. 

Italian  Penetration 

Belgrade,  in  return  for  aiding  Zogu's  invasion,  expected  repay- 
ment in  the  form  of  territory  and  influence  in  Tirane.  It  is  cer- 
tain that  Zogu  promised  Belgrade  frontier  concessions  before  the 


29 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

invasion,  but  once  in  power  the  Albanian  leader  continued  to  press 
Albania's  own  territorial  claims.  On  July  30,  1925,  the  two  na- 
tions signed  an  agreement  returning  the  town  of  Saint  Naum  on 
Lake  Ohrid  and  other  disputed  borderlands  to  Yugoslavia.  The 
larger  country,  however,  never  reaped  the  dividends  it  hoped  for 
when  it  invested  in  Zogu.  He  shunned  Belgrade  and  turned  Alba- 
nia toward  Italy  for  protection. 

Advocates  of  territorial  expansion  in  Italy  gathered  strength  in 
October  1922  when  Benito  Mussolini  took  power  in  Rome.  His 
fascist  supporters  undertook  an  unabashed  program  aimed  at  es- 
tablishing a  new  Roman  empire  in  the  Mediterranean  region  that 
would  rival  Britain  and  France.  Mussolini  saw  Albania  as  a  foothold 
in  the  Balkans,  and  after  the  war  the  Great  Powers  in  effect  recog- 
nized an  Italian  protectorate  over  Albania. 

In  May  1925,  Italy  began  a  penetration  into  Albania's  national 
life  that  would  culminate  fourteen  years  later  in  its  occupation  and 
annexation  of  Albania.  The  first  major  step  was  an  agreement  be- 
tween Rome  and  Tirane  that  allowed  Italy  to  exploit  Albania's 
mineral  resources.  Soon  Albania's  parliament  agreed  to  allow  the 
Italians  to  found  the  Albanian  National  Bank,  which  acted  as  the 
Albanian  treasury  even  though  its  main  office  was  in  Rome  and 
Italian  banks  effectively  controlled  it.  The  Albanians  also  award- 
ed Italian  shipping  companies  a  monopoly  on  freight  and  passenger 
transport  to  and  from  Albania. 

In  late  1925,  the  Italian-backed  Society  for  the  Economic  De- 
velopment of  Albania  began  to  lend  the  Albanian  government  funds 
at  high  interest  rates  for  transportation,  agriculture,  and  public- 
works  projects,  including  Zogu's  palace.  In  the  end,  the  loans  turned 
out  to  be  subsidies. 

In  mid- 1926  Italy  set  to  work  to  extend  its  political  influence 
in  Albania,  asking  Tirane  to  recognize  Rome's  special  interest  in 
Albania  and  accept  Italian  instructors  in  the  army  and  police.  Zogu 
resisted  until  an  uprising  in  the  northern  mountains  pressured  the 
Albanian  leader  to  conclude  the  First  Treaty  of  Tirane  with  the 
Italians  in  November  1926.  In  the  treaty,  both  states  agreed  not 
to  conclude  any  agreements  with  any  other  states  prejudicial  to  their 
mutual  interests.  The  agreement,  in  effect,  guaranteed  Zogu's  po- 
litical position  in  Albania  as  well  as  the  country's  boundaries.  In 
November  1927,  Albania  and  Italy  entered  into  a  defensive  alli- 
ance, the  Second  Treaty  of  Tirane,  which  brought  an  Italian  general 
and  about  forty  officers  to  train  the  Albanian  army.  Italian  mili- 
tary experts  soon  began  instructing  paramilitary  youth  groups.  Ti- 
rane also  allowed  the  Italian  navy  access  to  the  port  of  Vlore,  and 
the  Albanians  received  large  deliveries  of  armaments  from  Italy. 


30 


Historical  Setting 


Zog's  Kingdom 

In  1928  Zogu  secured  the  parliament's  consent  to  its  own  disso- 
lution. A  new  constituent  assembly  amended  the  constitution,  mak- 
ing Albania  a  kingdom  and  transforming  Zogu  into  Zog  I,  "King 
of  the  Albanians."  International  recognition  arrived  forthwith,  but 
many  Albanians  regarded  their  country's  nascent  dynasty  as  a  tragic 
farce.  The  new  constitution  abolished  the  Senate,  creating  a 
unicameral  National  Assembly,  but  King  Zog  retained  the  dictatori- 
al powers  he  had  enjoyed  as  President  Zogu.  Soon  after  his  coro- 
nation, Zog  broke  off  his  engagement  to  Shefqet  Bey  Verlaci's 
daughter,  and  Verlaci  withdrew  his  support  for  the  king  and  be- 
gan plotting  against  him.  Zog  had  accumulated  a  great  number 
of  enemies  over  the  years,  and  the  Albanian  tradition  of  blood 
vengeance  required  them  to  try  to  kill  him.  Zog  surrounded  him- 
self with  guards  and  rarely  appeared  in  public.  The  king's  loyalists 
disarmed  all  of  Albania's  tribes  except  for  his  own  Mati  tribesmen 
and  their  allies,  the  Dibra.  Nevertheless,  on  a  visit  to  Vienna  in 
1931,  Zog  and  his  bodyguards  fought  a  gun  battle  with  would-be 
assassins  on  the  Opera  House  steps. 

Zog  remained  sensitive  to  steadily  mounting  disillusion  with  Italy's 
domination  of  Albania.  The  Albanian  army,  though  always  less  than 
15,000-strong,  sapped  the  country's  funds,  and  the  Italians'  monop- 
oly on  training  the  armed  forces  rankled  public  opinion.  As  a  coun- 
terweight, Zog  kept  British  officers  in  the  Gendarmerie  despite  strong 
Italian  pressure  to  remove  them.  In  1931  Zog  openly  stood  up  to  the 
Italians,  refusing  to  renew  the  1926  First  Treaty  of  Tirane.  In  1932 
and  1933,  Albania  could  not  make  the  interest  payments  on  its  loans 
from  the  Society  for  the  Economic  Development  of  Albania.  In 
response,  Rome  turned  up  the  pressure,  demanding  that  Tirane 
name  Italians  to  direct  the  Gendarmerie;  join  Italy  in  a  customs 
union;  grant  Italy  control  of  the  country's  sugar,  telegraph,  and  elec- 
trical monopolies;  teach  the  Italian  language  in  all  Albanian  schools; 
and  admit  Italian  colonists.  Zog  refused.  Instead,  he  ordered  the 
national  budget  slashed  by  30  percent,  dismissed  the  Italian  mili- 
tary advisers,  and  nationalized  Italian-run  Roman  Catholic  schools 
in  the  northern  part  of  the  country. 

By  June  1934,  Albania  had  signed  trade  agreements  with  Yu- 
goslavia and  Greece,  and  Mussolini  had  suspended  all  payments 
to  Tirane.  An  Italian  attempt  to  intimidate  the  Albanians  by  sending 
a  fleet  of  warships  to  Albania  failed  because  the  Albanians  only 
allowed  the  forces  to  land  unarmed.  Mussolini  then  attempted  to 
buy  off  the  Albanians.  In  1935  he  presented  the  Albanian  govern- 
ment 3  million  gold  francs  as  a  gift. 


31 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Zog's  success  in  defeating  two  local  rebellions  convinced  Mus- 
solini that  the  Italians  had  to  reach  a  new  agreement  with  the  Al- 
banian king.  A  government  of  young  men  led  by  Mehdi  Frasheri, 
an  enlightened  Bektashi  administrator,  won  a  commitment  from 
Italy  to  fulfill  financial  promises  that  Mussolini  had  made  to  Al- 
bania and  to  grant  new  loans  for  harbor  improvements  at  Durres 
and  other  projects  that  would  keep  the  Albanian  government  afloat. 
Soon  Italians  began  taking  positions  in  Albania's  civil  service,  and 
Italian  settlers  were  allowed  into  the  country. 

Through  all  the  turmoil  of  the  interwar  years,  Albania  remained 
Europe's  most  economically  backward  nation.  Peasant  farmers 
accounted  for  the  vast  majority  of  the  Albanian  population.  Alba- 
nia had  practically  had  no  industry,  and  the  country's  potential 
for  hydroelectric  power  was  virtually  untapped.  Oil  represented 
the  country's  main  extractable  resource.  A  pipeline  between  the 
Kucove  oil  field  and  the  port  at  Vlore  expedited  shipments  of  crude 
petroleum  to  Italy's  refineries  after  the  Italians  took  over  the  oil- 
drilling  concessions  of  all  other  foreign  companies  in  1939.  Albania 
also  possessed  bitumen,  lignite,  iron,  chromite,  copper,  bauxite, 
manganese,  and  some  gold.  Shkoder  had  a  cement  factory;  Korce, 
a  brewery;  and  Durres  and  Shkoder,  cigarette  factories  that  used 
locally  grown  tobacco. 

During  much  of  the  interwar  period,  Italians  held  most  of  the 
technical  jobs  in  the  Albanian  economy.  Albania's  main  exports 
were  petroleum,  animal  skins,  cheese,  livestock,  and  eggs,  and 
prime  imports  were  grain  and  other  foodstuffs,  metal  products,  and 
machinery.  In  1939  the  value  of  Albania's  imports  outstripped  that 
of  its  exports  by  about  four  times.  About  70  percent  of  Albania's 
exports  went  to  Italy.  Italian  factories  furnished  about  40  percent 
of  Albania's  imports,  and  the  Italian  government  paid  for  the  rest. 

Italian  Occupation 

As  Germany  annexed  Austria  and  moved  against  Czechoslovak- 
ia, Italy  saw  itself  becoming  a  second-rate  member  of  the  Axis. 
After  Hitler  invaded  Czechoslovakia  without  notifying  Mussolini 
in  advance,  the  Italian  dictator  decided  in  early  1939  to  proceed 
with  his  own  annexation  of  Albania.  Italy's  King  Victor  Emmanuel 
III  criticized  the  plan  to  take  Albania  as  an  unnecessary  risk. 

Rome,  however,  delivered  Tirane  an  ultimatum  on  March  25, 
1939,  demanding  that  it  accede  to  Italy's  occupation  of  Albania. 
Zog  refused  to  accept  money  in  exchange  for  countenancing  a  full 
Italian  takeover  and  colonization  of  Albania,  and  on  April  7,  1939, 
Mussolini's  troops  invaded  Albania.  Despite  some  stubborn 
resistance,  especially  at  Durres,  the  Italians  made  short  work  of 


32 


Historical  Setting 


the  Albanians.  Unwilling  to  become  an  Italian  puppet,  King  Zog, 
his  wife  Queen  Geraldine  Apponyi,  and  their  infant  son  Skander 
fled  to  Greece  and  eventually  to  London.  On  April  12,  the  Alba- 
nian parliament  voted  to  unite  the  country  with  Italy.  Victor  Em- 
manuel III  took  the  Albanian  crown,  and  the  Italians  set  up  a  fascist 
government  under  Shefqet  Verlaci  and  soon  absorbed  Albania's 
military  and  diplomatic  service  into  Italy's. 

After  the  German  army  had  defeated  Poland,  Denmark,  and 
France,  a  still -jealous  Mussolini  decided  to  use  Albania  as  a  spring- 
board to  invade  Greece.  The  Italians  launched  their  attack  on  Oc- 
tober 28,  1940,  and  at  a  meeting  of  the  two  fascist  dictators  in 
Florence,  Mussolini  stunned  Hitler  with  his  announcement  of  the 
Italian  invasion.  Mussolini  counted  on  a  quick  victory,  but  Greek 
resistance  fighters  halted  the  Italian  army  in  its  tracks  and  soon 
advanced  into  Albania.  The  Greeks  took  Korce  and  Gjirokaster 
and  threatened  to  drive  the  Italians  from  the  port  city  of  Vlore. 
The  chauvinism  of  the  Greek  troops  fighting  in  Albania  cooled  the 
Albanians'  enthusiasm  for  fighting  the  Italians,  and  Mussolini's 
forces  soon  established  a  stable  front  in  central  Albania.  In  April 
1941,  Germany  and  its  allies  crushed  both  Greece  and  Yugosla- 
via, and  a  month  later  the  Axis  gave  Albania  control  of  Kosovo. 
Thus  Albanian  nationalists  ironically  witnessed  the  realization  of 
their  dreams  of  uniting  most  of  the  Albanian-populated  lands  during 
the  Axis  occupation  of  their  country. 

World  War  II  and  the  Rise  of  Communism,  1941-44 

Between  1941  and  1944,  communist  partisans  and  nationalist 
guerrillas  fought  Italian  and  German  occupation  forces,  and  more 
often  each  other,  in  a  brutal  struggle  to  take  control  of  Albania. 
Backed  by  Yugoslavia's  communists  and  armed  with  British  and 
United  States  weaponry,  Albania's  partisans  defeated  the  nation- 
alists in  a  civil  war  fought  between  Italy's  capitulation  in  Septem- 
ber 1943  and  the  withdrawal  of  German  forces  from  Albania  in 
late  1944.  Military  victory,  and  not  the  lure  of  Marxism,  brought 
the  Albanian  communists  from  behind  the  scenes  to  center  stage 
in  Albania's  political  drama.  Although  Albanian  writers  never  tired 
of  pointing  out  that  the  communists  had  "liberated"  Albania 
without  a  single  Soviet  soldier  setting  foot  on  its  territory,  they  often 
neglected  to  mention  that  the  communist  forces  in  Albania  were 
organized  by  the  Yugoslavs  and  armed  by  the  West  or  that  the 
Axis  retreat  from  Albania  was  in  response  to  military  defeats  out- 
side the  country. 


33 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  Communist  and  Nationalist  Resistance 

Faced  with  an  illiterate,  agrarian,  and  mostly  Muslim  society 
monitored  by  Zog's  security  police,  Albania's  communist  move- 
ment attracted  few  adherents  in  the  interwar  period.  In  fact,  the 
country  had  no  full-fledged  communist  party  before  World  War 
II.  After  Fan  Noli  fled  in  1924  to  Italy  and  later  the  United  States, 
several  of  his  leftist  proteges  migrated  to  Moscow,  where  they  af- 
filiated themselves  with  the  Balkan  Confederation  of  Communist 
Parties  and  through  it  the  Communist  International  (Comintern), 
the  Soviet-sponsored  association  of  international  communist  par- 
ties. In  1930  the  Comintern  dispatched  Ali  Kelmendi  to  Albania 
to  organize  communist  cells.  But  Albania  had  no  working  class  for 
the  communists  to  exploit,  and  Marxism  appealed  to  only  a  minute 
number  of  quarrelsome,  Western-educated,  mostly  Tosk,  intellec- 
tuals and  to  landless  peasants,  miners,  and  other  persons  discon- 
tented with  Albania's  obsolete  social  and  economic  structures. 
Forced  to  flee  Albania,  Kelmendi  fought  in  the  Garibaldi  Interna- 
tional Brigade  during  the  Spanish  Civil  War  and  later  moved  to 
France,  where  together  with  other  communists,  including  a  stu- 
dent named  Enver  Hoxha,  he  published  a  newspaper.  Paris  be- 
came the  Albanian  communists'  hub  until  Nazi  deportations 
depleted  their  ranks  after  the  fall  of  France  in  1940. 

Enver  Hoxha  and  another  veteran  of  the  Spanish  Civil  War, 
Mehmet  Shehu,  eventually  rose  to  become  the  most  powerful  figures 
in  Albania  during  the  decades  after  the  war.  The  dominant  figure 
in  modern  Albanian  history,  Enver  Hoxha  rose  from  obscurity  to 
lead  his  people  for  a  longer  time  than  any  other  ruler.  Born  in  1908 
to  a  Muslim  Tosk  landowner  from  Gjirokaster  who  returned  to 
Albania  after  working  in  the  United  States,  Hoxha  attended  the 
country's  best  college-preparatory  school,  the  National  Lycee  in 
Korce.  In  1930  he  attended  the  university  in  Montpelier,  France, 
but  lost  an  Albanian  state  scholarship  for  neglecting  his  studies. 
Hoxha  subsequently  moved  to  Paris  and  Brussels.  After  return- 
ing to  Albania  in  1936  without  earning  a  degree,  he  taught  French 
for  years  at  his  former  lycee  and  participated  in  a  communist  cell 
in  Korce.  When  the  war  erupted,  Hoxha  joined  the  Albanian  par- 
tisans. Shehu,  also  a  Muslim  Tosk,  studied  at  Tirane's  American 
Vocational  School.  He  went  on  to  a  military  college  in  Naples  but 
was  expelled  for  left-wing  political  activity.  In  Spain  Shehu  fought 
in  the  Garibaldi  International  Brigade.  After  internment  in  France, 
he  returned  to  Albania  in  1942  and  fought  with  the  partisans,  gain- 
ing a  reputation  for  brutality. 

In  October  1941 ,  the  leader  of  Communist  Party  of  the  Yugoslavia, 


34 


Historical  Setting 


Josip  Broz  Tito,  dispatched  agents  to  Albania  to  forge  the  coun- 
try's disparate,  impotent  communist  factions  into  a  monolithic  party 
organization.  Within  a  month,  they  had  established  a  Yugoslav- 
dominated  Albanian  Communist  Party  of  130  members  under  the 
leadership  of  Hoxha  and  an  eleven-member  Central  Committee. 
The  party  at  first  had  little  mass  appeal,  and  even  its  youth  or- 
ganization netted  few  recruits.  In  mid- 1942,  however,  party  lead- 
ers increased  their  popularity  by  heeding  Tito's  order  to  muffle 
their  Marxist-Leninist  propaganda  and  call  instead  for  national 
liberation.  In  September  1942,  the  party  organized  a  popular  front 
organization,  the  National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM),  from 
a  number  of  resistance  groups,  including  several  that  were  strong- 
ly anticommunist.  During  the  war,  the  NLM's  communist- 
dominated  partisans,  in  the  form  of  the  National  Liberation  Army, 
did  not  heed  warnings  from  the  Italian  occupiers  that  there  would 
be  reprisals  for  guerrilla  attacks.  Partisan  leaders,  on  the  contrary, 
counted  on  using  the  lust  for  revenge  such  reprisals  would  elicit 
to  win  recruits. 

A  nationalist  resistance  to  the  Italian  occupiers  emerged  in  Oc- 
tober 1 942 .  Ali  Klissura  and  Midhat  Frasheri  formed  the  Western- 
oriented  and  anticommunist  Balli  Kombetar  (National  Union),  a 
movement  that  recruited  supporters  from  both  the  large  landown- 
ers and  peasantry.  The  Balli  Kombetar  opposed  King  Zog's  return 
and  called  for  the  creation  of  a  republic  and  the  introduction  of 
some  economic  and  social  reforms.  The  Balli  Kombetar' s  leaders 
acted  conservatively,  however,  fearing  that  the  occupiers  would 
carry  out  reprisals  against  innocent  peasants  or  confiscate  the  land- 
owners' estates.  The  nationalistic  Geg  chieftains  and  the  Tosk 
landowners  often  came  to  terms  with  the  Italians,  and  later  the  Ger- 
mans, to  prevent  the  loss  of  their  wealth  and  power. 

With  the  overthrow  of  Mussolini's  fascist  regime  and  Italy's  sur- 
render in  1943,  the  Italian  military  and  police  establishment  in  Al- 
bania buckled.  Albanian  fighters  overwhelmed  five  Italian  divisions, 
and  enthusiastic  recruits  flocked  to  the  guerrilla  forces.  The  com- 
munists took  control  of  most  of  Albania's  southern  cities,  except 
Vlore,  which  was  a  Balli  Kombetar  stronghold,  and  nationalists 
attached  to  the  NLM  gained  control  over  much  of  the  north.  Brit- 
ish agents  working  in  Albania  during  the  war  fed  the  Albanian 
resistance  fighters  with  information  that  the  Allies  were  planning 
a  major  invasion  of  the  Balkans  and  urged  the  disparate  Albanian 
groups  to  unite  their  efforts.  In  August  1943,  the  Allies  convinced 
communist  and  Balli  Kombetar  leaders  to  meet  in  the  village  of 
Mukaj,  near  Tirane,  and  form  a  Committee  for  the  Salvation  of 
Albania  that  would  coordinate  their  guerrilla  operations.  The  two 


35 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

groups  eventually  ended  all  collaboration,  however,  over  a  disagree- 
ment on  the  postwar  status  of  Kosovo.  The  communists,  under 
Yugoslav  tutelage,  supported  returning  the  region  to  Yugoslavia 
after  the  war,  while  the  nationalist  Balli  Kombetar  advocated  keep- 
ing the  province.  The  delegates  at  Mukaj  agreed  that  a  plebiscite 
should  be  held  in  Kosovo  to  decide  the  matter;  but  under  Yugo- 
slav pressure,  the  communists  soon  reneged  on  the  accord.  A  month 
later,  the  communists  attacked  Balli  Kombetar  forces,  igniting  a  civil 
war  that  was  fought  for  the  next  year,  mostly  in  southern  Albania. 

Germany  occupied  Albania  in  September  1943,  dropping  para- 
troopers into  Tirane  before  the  Albanian  guerrillas  could  take  the 
capital,  and  the  German  army  soon  drove  the  guerrillas  into  the 
hills  and  to  the  south.  Berlin  subsequently  announced  it  would 
recognize  the  independence  of  a  neutral  Albania  and  organized  an 
Albanian  government,  police,  and  military.  The  Germans  did  not 
exert  heavy-handed  control  over  Albania's  administration.  Rather, 
they  sought  to  gain  popular  support  by  backing  causes  popular  with 
Albanians,  especially  the  annexation  of  Kosovo.  Some  Balli  Kombe- 
tar units  cooperated  with  the  Germans  against  the  communists, 
and  several  Balli  Kombetar  leaders  held  positions  in  the  German- 
sponsored  regime.  Albanian  collaborators,  especially  the  Skander- 
beg  SS  Division,  also  expelled  and  killed  Serbs  living  in  Kosovo. 
In  December  1943,  a  third  resistance  organization,  an  anticom- 
munist,  anti-German  royalist  group  known  as  Legality,  took  shape 
in  Albania's  northern  mountains.  Legality,  led  by  Abaz  Kupi, 
largely  consisted  of  Geg  guerrillas  who  withdrew  their  support  for 
the  NLM  after  the  communists  renounced  Albania's  claims  on 
Kosovo. 

The  Communist  Takeover  of  Albania 

The  communist  partisans  regrouped  and,  thanks  to  freshly  sup- 
plied British  weapons,  gained  control  of  southern  Albania  in  Janu- 
ary 1944.  In  May  they  called  a  congress  of  members  of  the  National 
Liberation  Front  (NLF,  as  the  movement  was  by  then  called)  at 
Permet,  which  chose  an  Anti-Fascist  Council  of  National  Libera- 
tion to  act  as  Albania's  administration  and  legislature.  Hoxha  be- 
came the  chairman  of  the  council's  executive  committee  and  the 
National  Liberation  Army's  supreme  commander.  The  communist 
partisans  defeated  the  last  Balli  Kombetar  forces  in  southern  Al- 
bania by  mid-summer  1944  and  encountered  only  scattered 
resistance  from  the  Balli  Kombetar  and  Legality  when  they  en- 
tered central  and  northern  Albania  by  the  end  of  July.  The  British 
military  mission  urged  the  nationalists  not  to  oppose  the  com- 
munists' advance,  and  the  Allies  evacuated  Kupi  to  Italy.  Before 


36 


War  memorial  in  Dunes 
Courtesy  Fred  Conrad 


the  end  of  November,  the  Germans  had  withdrawn  from  Tirane, 
and  the  communists,  supported  by  Allied  air  cover,  had  no  problem 
taking  control  of  the  capital.  A  provisional  government  the  com- 
munists had  formed  at  Berat  in  October  administered  Albania  with 
Enver  Hoxha  as  prime  minister,  and  in  late  1944  Hoxha  dispatched 
Albanian  partisans  to  help  Tito's  forces  rout  Albanian  nationalists 
in  Kosovo. 

Albania  stood  in  an  unenviable  position  after  World  War  II. 
Greece  and  Yugoslavia  hungered  for  Albanian  lands  they  had  lost 
or  claimed.  The  NLF's  strong  links  with  Yugoslavia's  communists, 
who  also  enjoyed  British  military  and  diplomatic  support,  guaran- 
teed that  Belgrade  would  play  a  key  role  in  Albania's  postwar  order. 
The  Allies  never  recognized  an  Albanian  government  in  exile  or 
King  Zog,  nor  did  they  ever  raise  the  question  of  Albania  or  its 
borders  at  any  of  the  major  wartime  conferences.  No  reliable  statis- 
tics on  Albania's  wartime  losses  exist,  but  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and  Rehabilitation  Administration  reported  about  30,000  Albani- 
an war  dead,  200  destroyed  villages,  18,000  destroyed  houses,  and 
about  100,000  people  left  homeless.  Albanian  official  statistics  claim 
somewhat  higher  losses. 

Communist  Albania 

Official  Albanian  writers  and  artists  presented  the  history  of  com- 
munist Albania  as  the  saga  of  a  backward,  besieged  people  marching 


37 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


toward  a  Stalinist  Utopia.  The  actual  story  of  communist  Albania 
is,  however,  quintessentially  dystopian:  a  bleak  inventory  of  bloody 
purges  and  repression,  a  case  study  in  betrayal  and  obsessive 
xenophobia,  and  a  cacophony  of  bitter  polemics. 

After  five  years  of  party  infighting  and  extermination  campaigns 
against  the  country's  anticommunist  opposition,  Enver  Hoxha  and 
Mehmet  Shehu  emerged  as  the  dominant  figures  in  Albania.  The 
duumvirate  concentrated  primarily  on  securing  and  maintaining 
their  power  base  and  secondarily  on  preserving  Albania's  indepen- 
dence and  reshaping  the  country  according  to  the  procrustean 
precepts  of  orthodox  Stalinism.  In  pursuit  of  these  goals,  the  com- 
munist elite  co-opted  or  terrorized  the  entire  Albanian  population 
into  blind  obedience,  herding  them  into  obligatory  front  organi- 
zations, bombarding  them  with  propaganda,  and  disciplining  them 
with  a  police  force  that  completely  disregarded  legal,  ethical,  reli- 
gious, or  political  norms.  Hoxha  and  Shehu  dominated  Albania 
and  denied  the  Albanian  people  the  most  basic  human  and  civil 
rights  by  pr  anting  themselves,  as  well  as  the  communist  party 
and  state  sf  rity  apparatus  they  controlled,  as  the  vigilant  defenders 
of  the  country's  independence.  After  Albania's  break  with  Yugo- 
slavia in  late  1948,  Albania  was  a  client  of  the  Soviet  Union.  Fol- 
lowing the  Soviet  Union's  rapprochement  with  Tito  after  Stalin's 
death,  Albania  turned  away  from  Moscow  and  found  a  new 
benefactor  in  China.  When  China's  isolation  ended  in  the  1970s, 
Albania  turned  away  from  its  giant  Asian  patron  and  adopted  a 
strict  policy  of  autarky  that  brought  the  country  economic  ruin. 
But  through  it  all,  Hoxha  engineered  an  elaborate  cult  of  person- 
ality (see  Glossary)  whose  spokesmen  elevated  his  persona  to  the 
status  of  a  god-man.  When  he  died  in  1985,  few  Albanian  eyes 
were  without  tears. 

Consolidation  of  Power  and  Initial  Reforms 

A  tiny  collection  of  militant  communists  moved  quickly  after 
World  War  II  to  subdue  all  potential  political  enemies  in  Albania, 
break  the  country's  landowners  and  minuscule  middle  class,  and 
isolate  Albania  from  the  noncommunist  world.  By  early  1945,  the 
communists  had  liquidated,  discredited,  or  driven  into  exile  most 
of  the  country's  interwar  elite.  The  internal  affairs  minister,  Ko^i 
Xoxe,  a  pro-Yugoslav  erstwhile  tinsmith,  presided  over  the  trial 
and  the  execution  of  thousands  of  opposition  politicians,  clan  chiefs, 
and  members  of  former  Albanian  governments,  who  were  con- 
demned as  "war  criminals."  Thousands  of  their  family  members 
were  imprisoned  for  years  in  work  camps  and  jails  and  later  exiled 
for  decades  to  state  farms  built  on  reclaimed  marshlands.  The 


38 


Historical  Setting 


communists'  consolidation  of  control  also  produced  a  shift  in  politi- 
cal power  in  Albania  from  the  northern  Gegs  to  the  southern  Tosks. 
Most  communist  leaders  were  middle-class  Tosks,  and  the  party 
drew  most  of  its  recruits  from  Tosk-inhabited  areas;  the  Gegs,  with 
their  centuries-old  tradition  of  opposing  authority,  distrusted  the 
new  Albanian  rulers  and  their  alien  Marxist  doctrines. 

In  December  1945,  Albanians  elected  a  new  People's  Assem- 
bly, but  only  candidates  from  the  Democratic  Front  (previously 
the  National  Liberation  Movement,  then  the  National  Liberation 
Front)  appeared  on  the  electoral  lists,  and  the  communists  used 
propaganda  and  terror  tactics  to  gag  the  opposition.  Official  bal- 
lot tallies  showed  that  92  percent  of  the  electorate  voted  and  that 
93  percent  of  the  voters  chose  the  Democratic  Front  ticket.  The 
assembly  convened  in  January  1946,  annulled  the  monarchy,  and 
transformed  Albania  into  a  "people's  republic."  After  months  of 
angry  debate,  the  assembly  adopted  a  constitution  that  mirrored 
the  Yugoslav  and  Soviet  constitutions.  Then  in  the  spring,  the  as- 
sembly members  chose  a  new  government.  Hoxha,  the  Albanian 
Communist  Party's  first  secretary,  became  prime  minister,  foreign 
minister,  defense  minister,  and  the  army's  commander  in  chief. 
Xoxe  remained  both  internal  affairs  minister  and  the  party's  or- 
ganizational secretary.  In  late  1945  and  early  1946,  Xoxe  and  other 
party  hard-liners  purged  moderates  who  had  pressed  for  close  con- 
tacts with  the  West,  a  modicum  of  political  pluralism,  and  a  delay 
in  the  introduction  of  strict  communist  economic  measures  until 
Albania's  economy  had  more  time  to  develop.  Hoxha  remained 
in  control  despite  the  fact  that  he  had  once  advocated  restoring  re- 
lations with  Italy  and  even  allowing  Albanians  to  study  in  Italy. 

The  communists  also  undertook  economic  measures  to  expand 
their  power.  In  December  1944,  the  provisional  government  adopt- 
ed laws  allowing  the  state  to  regulate  foreign  and  domestic  trade, 
commercial  enterprises,  and  the  few  industries  the  country  pos- 
sessed. The  laws  sanctioned  confiscation  of  property  belonging  to 
political  exiles  and  "enemies  of  the  people."  The  state  also  expropri- 
ated all  German-  and  Italian-owned  property,  nationalized  trans- 
portation enterprises,  and  canceled  all  concessions  granted  by 
previous  Albanian  governments  to  foreign  companies. 

The  government  took  major  steps  to  introduce  a  Stalinist-style 
centrally  planned  economy  in  1946.  It  nationalized  all  industries, 
transforme  i  foreign  trade  into  a  government  monopoly,  brought 
almost  all  domestic  trade  under  state  control,  and  banned  land  sales 
and  transfers.  Planners  at  the  newly  founded  Economic  Planning 
Commission  emphasized  industrial  development,  and  in  1947  the 
government  introduced  the  Soviet  cost-accounting  system. 


39 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

In  August  1945,  the  provisional  government  adopted  the  first 
sweeping  agricultural  reforms  in  Albania's  history.  The  country's 
100  largest  landowners,  who  controlled  close  to  a  third  of  Alba- 
nia's arable  land,  had  frustrated  all  agricultural  reform  proposals 
before  the  war.  The  communists'  reforms  were  aimed  at  squeez- 
ing large  landowners  out  of  business,  winning  peasant  support,  and 
increasing  farm  output  to  avert  famine.  The  government  annulled 
outstanding  agricultural  debts,  granted  peasants  access  to  inexpen- 
sive water  for  irrigation,  and  nationalized  forest  and  pastureland. 
Under  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law,  which  redistributed  about  half 
of  Albania's  arable  land,  the  government  confiscated  property  be- 
longing to  absentee  landlords  and  people  not  dependent  on  agricul- 
ture for  a  living.  The  few  peasants  with  agricultural  machinery  were 
permitted  to  keep  up  to  forty  hectares  of  land;  the  landholdings 
of  religious  institutions  and  peasants  without  agricultural  machinery 
were  limited  to  twenty  hectares;  and  landless  peasants  and  peasants 
with  tiny  landholdings  were  given  up  to  five  hectares,  although  they 
had  to  pay  nominal  compensation.  Thus  tiny  farmsteads  replaced 
large  private  estates  across  Albania.  By  mid- 1946  Albanian  peasants 
were  cultivating  more  land  and  producing  higher  corn  and  wheat 
yields  than  ever  before. 

Albanian-Yugoslav  Tensions 

Until  Yugoslavia's  expulsion  from  the  Cominform  (see  Glossary) 
in  1948,  Albania  acted  like  a  Yugoslav  satellite,  and  Tito  aimed 
to  use  his  choke  hold  on  the  Albanian  party  to  incorporate  the  en- 
tire country  into  Yugoslavia.  After  Germany's  withdrawal  from 
Kosovo  in  late  1944,  Yugoslavia's  communist  partisans  took  pos- 
session of  the  province  and  committed  retaliatory  massacres  against 
Albanians.  Before  World  War  II,  the  Communist  Party  of  Yugo- 
slavia had  supported  transferring  Kosovo  to  Albania,  but  Yugosla- 
via's postwar  communist  regime  insisted  on  preserving  the  country's 
prewar  borders.  In  repudiating  the  1943  Mukaj  agreement  under 
pressure  from  the  Yugoslavs,  Albania's  communists  had  consent- 
ed to  restore  Kosovo  to  Yugoslavia  after  the  war.  In  January  1945, 
the  two  governments  signed  a  treaty  reincorporating  Kosovo  into 
Yugoslavia  as  an  autonomous  province.  Shortly  thereafter,  Yu- 
goslavia became  the  first  country  to  recognize  Albania's  provisional 
government. 

In  July  1946,  Yugoslavia  and  Albania  signed  a  treaty  of  friend- 
ship and  cooperation  that  was  quickly  followed  by  a  series  of  techni- 
cal and  economic  agreements  laying  the  groundwork  for  integrating 
the  Albanian  and  Yugoslav  economies.  The  pacts  provided  for  co- 
ordinating the  economic  plans  of  both  states,  standardizing  their 


40 


Historical  Setting 


monetary  systems,  and  creating  a  common  pricing  system  and  a 
customs  union.  So  close  was  the  Yugoslav-Albanian  relationship 
that  Serbo-Croatian  became  a  required  subject  in  Albanian  high 
schools.  Yugoslavia  signed  a  similar  friendship  treaty  with  Bulgaria, 
and  Marshal  Tito  and  Bulgaria's  Georgi  Dimitrov  talked  of  plans 
to  establish  a  Balkan  federation  to  include  Albania,  Yugoslavia, 
and  Bulgaria.  Yugoslav  advisers  poured  into  Albania's  government 
offices  and  its  army  headquarters.  Tirane  was  desperate  for  out- 
side aid,  and  about  20,000  tons  of  Yugoslav  grain  helped  stave  off 
famine.  Albania  also  received  US$26.3  million  from  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Administration  immediately  after 
the  war  but  had  to  rely  on  Yugoslavia  for  investment  and  develop- 
ment aid. 

The  Yugoslav  government  clearly  regarded  investment  in  Al- 
bania as  investment  in  the  future  of  Yugoslavia  itself.  Joint 
Albanian-Yugoslav  companies  were  created  for  mining,  railroad 
construction,  the  production  of  petroleum  and  electricity,  and  in- 
ternational trade.  Yugoslav  investments  led  to  the  construction  of 
a  sugar  refinery  in  Korce,  a  food-processing  plant  in  Elbasan,  a 
hemp  factory  at  Rrogozhine,  a  fish  cannery  in  Vlore,  and  a  print- 
ing press,  telephone  exchange,  and  textile  mill  in  Tirane.  The  Yu- 
goslavs also  bolstered  the  Albanian  economy  by  paying  three  times 
the  world  price  for  Albanian  copper  and  other  materials. 

Relations  between  Albania  and  Yugoslavia  declined,  however, 
when  the  Albanians  began  complaining  that  the  Yugoslavs  were 
paying  too  little  for  Albanian  raw  materials  and  exploiting  Alba- 
nia through  the  joint  stock  companies.  In  addition,  the  Albanians 
sought  investment  funds  to  develop  light  industries  and  an  oil 
refinery,  while  the  Yugoslavs  wanted  the  Albanians  to  concentrate 
on  agriculture  and  raw-material  extraction.  The  head  of  Albania's 
Economic  Planning  Commission  and  one  of  Hoxha's  allies,  Nako 
Spiru,  became  the  leading  critic  of  Yugoslavia's  efforts  to  exert  eco- 
nomic control  over  Albania.  Tito  distrusted  Hoxha  and  the  other 
intellectuals  in  the  Albanian  party  and,  through  Xoxe  and  his 
loyalists,  attempted  to  unseat  them. 

In  1947  Yugoslavia's  leaders  engineered  an  all-out  offensive 
against  anti-Yugoslav  Albanian  communists,  including  Hoxha  and 
Spiru.  In  May  Tirane  announced  the  arrest,  trial,  and  conviction 
of  nine  People's  Assembly  members,  all  known  for  opposing  Yu- 
goslavia, on  charges  of  antistate  activities.  A  month  later,  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  Yugoslavia's  Central  Committee  accused  Hoxha 
of  following  "independent"  policies  and  turning  the  Albanian  peo- 
ple against  Yugoslavia.  Apparently  attempting  to  buy  support  in- 
side the  Albanian  Communist  Party,  Belgrade  extended  Tirane 


41 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

US$40  million  worth  of  credits,  an  amount  equal  to  58  percent 
of  Albania's  1947  state  budget.  A  year  later,  Yugoslavia's  credits 
accounted  for  nearly  half  of  the  state  budget.  Relations  worsened 
in  the  fall,  however,  when  Spiru's  commission  developed  an  eco- 
nomic plan  that  stressed  self-sufficiency,  light  industry,  and  agricul- 
ture. The  Yugoslavs  complained  bitterly,  and  when  Spiru  came 
under  criticism  and  failed  to  win  support  from  anyone  in  the  Al- 
banian party  leadership,  he  committed  suicide. 

The  insignificance  of  Albania's  standing  in  the  communist  world 
was  clearly  highlighted  when  the  emerging  East  European  nations 
did  not  invite  the  Albanian  party  to  the  September  1947  founding 
meeting  of  the  Cominform.  Rather,  Yugoslavia  represented  Al- 
bania at  Cominform  meetings.  Although  the  Soviet  Union  gave 
Albania  a  pledge  to  build  textile  and  sugar  mills  and  other  facto- 
ries and  to  provide  Albania  agricultural  and  industrial  machinery, 
Stalin  told  Milovan  Djilas,  at  the  time  a  high-ranking  member  of 
Yugoslavia's  communist  hierarchy,  that  Yugoslavia  should  "swal- 
low" Albania. 

The  pro-Yugoslav  faction  wielded  decisive  political  power  in  Al- 
bania well  into  1948.  At  a  party  plenum  in  February  and  March, 
the  communist  leadership  voted  to  merge  the  Albanian  and  Yu- 
goslav economies  and  militaries.  Hoxha,  to  the  core  an  opportunist, 
even  denounced  Spiru  for  attempting  to  ruin  Albanian- Yugoslav 
relations.  During  a  party  Political  Bureau  (Politburo)  meeting  a 
month  later,  Xoxe  proposed  appealing  to  Belgrade  to  admit  Alba- 
nia as  a  seventh  Yugoslav  republic.  When  the  Cominform  expelled 
Yugoslavia  on  June  28,  however,  Albania  made  a  rapid  about-face 
in  its  policy  toward  Yugoslavia.  The  move  surely  saved  Hoxha  from 
a  firing  squad  and  as  surely  doomed  Xoxe  to  one.  Three  days  later, 
Tirane  gave  the  Yugoslav  advisers  in  Albania  forty-eight  hours  to 
leave  the  country,  rescinded  all  bilateral  economic  agreements  with 
its  neighbor,  and  launched  a  virulent  anti- Yugoslav  propaganda 
blitz  that  transformed  Stalin  into  an  Albanian  national  hero,  Hoxha 
into  a  warrior  against  foreign  aggression,  and  Tito  into  an  imperi- 
alist monster. 

Albania  entered  an  orbit  around  the  Soviet  Union,  and  in  Sep- 
tember 1948  Moscow  stepped  in  to  compensate  for  Albania's  loss 
of  Yugoslav  aid.  The  shift  proved  to  be  a  boon  for  Albania  because 
Moscow  had  far  more  to  offer  than  hard-strapped  Belgrade.  The 
fact  that  the  Soviet  Union  had  no  common  border  with  Albania 
also  appealed  to  the  Albanian  regime  because  it  made  it  more 
difficult  for  Moscow  to  exert  pressure  on  Tirane.  In  November  at 
the  First  Party  Congress  of  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL),  the 
former  Albanian  Communist  Party  renamed  at  Stalin's  suggestion, 


42 


Historical  Setting 


Hoxha  pinned  the  blame  for  the  country's  woes  on  Yugoslavia  and 
Xoxe.  Hoxha  had  had  Xoxe  sacked  as  internal  affairs  minister  in 
October,  replacing  him  with  Shehu.  After  a  secret  trial  in  May 
1949,  Xoxe  was  executed.  The  subsequent  anti-Titoist  purges  in 
Albania  brought  the  liquidation  of  fourteen  members  of  the  party's 
thirty-one-person  Central  Committee  and  thirty-two  of  the  109  Peo- 
ple's Assembly  deputies.  Overall,  the  party  expelled  about  25  per- 
cent of  its  membership.  Yugoslavia  responded  with  a  propaganda 
counterattack,  canceled  its  treaty  of  friendship  with  Albania,  and 
in  1950  withdrew  its  diplomatic  mission  from  Tirane. 

Deteriorating  Relations  with  the  West 

Albania's  relations  with  the  West  soured  after  the  communist 
regime's  refusal  to  allow  free  elections  in  December  1945.  Alba- 
nia restricted  the  movements  of  United  States  and  British  person- 
nel in  the  country,  charging  that  they  had  instigated  anticommunist 
uprisings  in  the  northern  mountains.  Britain  announced  in  April 
that  it  would  not  send  a  diplomatic  mission  to  Tirane,  the  United 
States  withdrew  its  mission  in  November,  and  both  the  United 
States  and  Britain  opposed  admitting  Albania  to  the  United  Na- 
tions (UN).  The  Albanian  regime  feared  that  the  United  States 
and  Britain,  which  were  supporting  anticommunist  forces  in  the 
civil  war  in  Greece,  would  back  Greek  demands  for  territory  in 
southern  Albania;  and  anxieties  grew  in  July  when  a  United  States 
Senate  resolution  backed  the  Greek  demands. 

A  major  incident  between  Albania  and  Britain  erupted  in  1946 
after  Tirane  claimed  jurisdiction  over  the  channel  between  the  Al- 
banian mainland  and  the  Greek  island  of  Corfu.  Britain  challenged 
Albania  by  sailing  four  destroyers  into  the  channel.  Two  of  the 
ships  struck  mines  on  October  22,  1946,  and  forty-four  crew  mem- 
bers died.  Britain  complained  to  the  UN  and  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  which,  in  its  first  case  ever,  ruled  against  Tirane. 

After  1946  the  United  States  and  Britain  began  implementing 
an  elaborate  covert  plan  to  overthrow  Albania's  communist  regime 
by  backing  anticommunist  and  royalist  forces  within  the  country. 
By  1949  the  United  States  and  British  intelligence  organizations 
were  working  with  King  Zog  and  the  fanatic  mountainmen  of  his 
personal  guard.  They  recruited  Albanian  refugees  and  emigres  from 
Egypt,  Italy,  and  Greece;  trained  them  in  Cyprus,  Malta,  and  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany);  and  infiltrated 
them  into  Albania.  Guerrilla  units  entered  Albania  in  1950  and 
1952,  but  Albanian  security  forces  killed  or  captured  all  of  them. 
Kim  Philby,  a  Soviet  double  agent  working  as  a  liaison  officer  be- 
tween the  British  intelligence  service  and  the  United  States  Central 


43 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Intelligence  Agency,  had  leaked  details  of  the  infiltration  plan  to 
Moscow,  and  the  security  breach  claimed  the  lives  of  about  300 
infiltrators. 

A  wave  of  subversive  activity,  including  the  failed  infiltration 
and  the  March  1951  bombing  of  the  Soviet  embassy  in  Tirane, 
encouraged  the  Albanian  regime  to  implement  harsh  internal  secu- 
rity measures.  In  September  1952,  the  assembly  enacted  a  penal 
code  that  required  the  death  penalty  for  anyone  over  eleven  years 
old  found  guilty  of  conspiring  against  the  state,  damaging  state 
property,  or  committing  economic  sabotage. 

Albania  and  the  Soviet  Union 

Albania  became  dependent  on  Soviet  aid  and  know-how  after 
the  break  with  Yugoslavia  in  1948.  In  February  1949,  Albania 
gained  membership  in  the  communist  bloc's  organization  for  coor- 
dinating economic  planning,  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  As- 
sistance (Comecon).  Tirane  soon  entered  into  trade  agreements 
with  Poland,  Czechoslovakia,  Hungary,  Romania,  and  the  Soviet 
Union.  Soviet  and  East  European  technical  advisers  took  up  resi- 
dence in  Albania,  and  the  Soviet  Union  also  sent  Albania  military 
advisers  and  built  a  submarine  installation  on  Sazan  Island.  After 
the  Soviet- Yugoslav  split,  Albania  and  Bulgaria  were  the  only  coun- 
tries the  Soviet  Union  could  use  to  funnel  war  materiel  to  the  com- 
munists fighting  in  Greece.  What  little  strategic  value  Albania 
offered  the  Soviet  Union,  however,  gradually  shrank  as  nuclear 
arms  technology  developed. 

Anxious  to  pay  homage  to  Stalin,  Albania's  rulers  implement- 
ed new  elements  of  the  Stalinist  economic  system.  In  1949  Alba- 
nia adopted  the  basic  elements  of  the  Soviet  fiscal  system,  under 
which  state  enterprises  paid  direct  contributions  to  the  treasury  from 
their  profits  and  kept  only  a  share  authorized  for  self-financed  in- 
vestments and  other  purposes.  In  1951  the  Albanian  government 
launched  its  first  five-year  plan,  which  emphasized  exploiting  the 
country's  oil,  chromite,  copper,  nickel,  asphalt,  and  coal  resources; 
expanding  electricity  production  and  the  power  grid;  increasing 
agricultural  output;  and  improving  transportation.  The  govern- 
ment began  a  program  of  rapid  industrialization  after  the  APL's 
Second  Party  Congress  and  a  campaign  of  forced  collectivization 
of  farmland  in  1955.  At  the  time,  private  farms  still  produced  about 
87  percent  of  Albania's  agricultural  output,  but  by  1960  the  same 
percentage  came  from  collective  or  state  farms. 

Soviet-Albanian  relations  remained  warm  during  the  last  years 
of  Stalin's  life  despite  the  fact  that  Albania  was  an  economic  lia- 
bility for  the  Soviet  Union.  Albania  conducted  all  its  foreign  trade 


44 


Historical  Setting 


with  Soviet  bloc  countries  in  1949,  1950,  and  1951  and  over  half 
its  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  itself.  Together  with  its  satellites,  the 
Soviet  Union  underwrote  shortfalls  in  Albania's  balance  of  payments 
with  long-term  grants  (see  Dependence  on  the  Soviet  Union,  1948- 
60,  ch.  3). 

Although  far  behind  Western  practice,  health  care  and  educa- 
tion improved  dramatically  for  Albania's  1.2  million  people  in  the 
early  1950s.  The  number  of  Albanian  doctors  increased  by  a  third 
to  about  150  early  in  the  decade  (although  the  doctor-patient  ratio 
remained  unacceptable  by  most  standards),  and  the  state  opened 
new  medical  training  facilities.  The  number  of  hospital  beds  rose 
from  1,765  in  1945  to  about  5,500  in  1953.  Better  health  care  and 
living  conditions  produced  an  improvement  in  Albania's  dismal 
infant  mortality  rate,  lowering  it  from  112.2  deaths  per  1 ,000  live 
births  in  1945  to  99.5  deaths  per  1,000  births  in  1953  (see  Medical 
Care  and  Nutrition,  ch.  2).  The  education  system,  considered  a 
tool  for  propagating  communism  and  creating  the  academic  and 
technical  cadres  necessary  for  construction  of  a  socialist  state  and 
society,  also  improved  dramatically.  The  number  of  schools, 
teachers,  and  students  doubled  between  1945  and  1950.  Illiteracy 
declined  from  perhaps  85  percent  in  1946  to  31  percent  in  1950. 
The  Soviet  Union  provided  scholarships  for  Albanian  students  and 
supplied  specialists  and  study  materials  to  improve  instruction  in 
Albania.  The  Enver  Hoxha  University  at  Tirane  was  founded  in 
1957,  and  the  Albanian  Academy  of  Sciences  opened  fifteen  years 
later.  Despite  these  advances,  however,  education  in  Albania 
suffered  as  a  result  of  restrictions  on  freedom  of  thought.  For  ex- 
ample, educational  institutions  had  scant  influence  on  their  own 
curricula,  methods  of  teaching,  or  administration  (see  Education 
under  Communist  Rule,  ch.  2). 

Stalin  died  in  March  1953,  and  apparently  fearing  that  the  Soviet 
ruler's  demise  might  encourage  rivals  within  the  Albanian  party's 
ranks,  neither  Hoxha  nor  Shehu  risked  traveling  to  Moscow  to  at- 
tend his  funeral.  The  Soviet  Union's  subsequent  movement  toward 
rapprochement  with  the  hated  Yugoslavs  rankled  the  two  Albani- 
an leaders.  Tirane  soon  came  under  pressure  from  Moscow  to  copy, 
at  least  formally,  the  new  Soviet  model  for  a  collective  leadership. 
In  July  1953,  Hoxha  handed  over  the  foreign  affairs  and  defense 
portfolios  to  loyal  followers,  but  he  kept  both  the  top  party  post 
and  the  premiership  until  1954,  when  Shehu  became  Albania's 
prime  minister.  The  Soviet  Union,  responding  with  an  effort  to 
raise  the  Albanian  leaders'  morale,  elevated  diplomatic  relations 
between  the  two  countries  to  the  ambassadorial  level. 


45 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  some  initial  expressions  of  enthusiasm,  Hoxha  and  Shehu 
mistrusted  Nikita  Khrushchev's  programs  of  "peaceful  coexistence" 
and  "different  roads  to  socialism"  because  they  appeared  to  pose 
the  threat  that  Yugoslavia  might  again  try  to  take  control  of  Alba- 
nia. Hoxha  and  Shehu  were  also  alarmed  at  the  prospect  that 
Moscow  might  prefer  less  dogmatic  rulers  in  Albania.  Tirane  and 
Belgrade  renewed  diplomatic  relations  in  December  1953,  but  Hox- 
ha refused  Khrushchev's  repeated  appeals  to  rehabilitate  posthu- 
mously the  pro- Yugoslav  Xoxe  as  a  gesture  to  Tito.  The  Albanian 
duo  instead  tightened  their  grip  on  their  country's  domestic  life 
and  let  the  propaganda  war  with  the  Yugoslavs  grind  on.  In  1955 
Albania  became  a  founding  member  of  the  Warsaw  Treaty  Or- 
ganization (see  Glossary),  better  known  as  the  Warsaw  Pact,  the 
only  military  alliance  the  nation  ever  joined.  Although  the  pact 
represented  the  first  promise  Albania  had  obtained  from  any  of 
the  communist  countries  to  defend  its  borders,  the  treaty  did  nothing 
to  assuage  the  Albanian  leaders'  deep  mistrust  of  Yugoslavia. 

Hoxha  and  Shehu  tapped  the  Albanians'  deep-seated  fear  of  Yu- 
goslav domination  in  order  to  remain  in  power  during  the  thaw 
following  the  Twentieth  Party  Congress  of  the  Communist  party 
of  the  Soviet  Union  in  1956,  when  Khrushchev  denounced  Sta- 
lin's crimes  in  his  "secret  speech."  Hoxha  defended  Stalin  and 
blamed  the  Titoist  heresy  for  the  troubles  vexing  world  communism, 
including  the  disturbances  in  Poland  and  the  rebellion  in  Hungary 
in  1956.  Hoxha  mercilessly  purged  party  moderates  with  pro-Soviet 
and  pro- Yugoslav  leanings,  but  he  toned  down  his  anti- Yugoslav 
rhetoric  after  an  April  1957  trip  to  Moscow,  where  he  won  cancel- 
lation of  about  US$105  million  in  outstanding  loans  and  about 
US$7.8  million  in  additional  food  assistance.  By  1958,  however, 
Hoxha  was  again  complaining  about  Tito's  "fascism"  and  "geno- 
cide" against  Albanians  in  Kosovo.  He  also  grumbled  about  a 
Comecon  plan  for  integrating  the  East  European  economies,  which 
called  for  Albania  to  produce  agricultural  goods  and  minerals  in- 
stead of  emphasizing  development  of  heavy  industry.  On  a  twelve- 
day  visit  to  Albania  in  1959,  Khrushchev  reportedly  tried  to  con- 
vince Hoxha  and  Shehu  that  their  country  should  aspire  to  become 
socialism's  "orchard." 

Albania  and  China 

Albania  played  a  role  in  the  Sino- Soviet  conflict  far  outweigh- 
ing both  its  size  and  its  importance  in  the  communist  world.  By 
1958  Albania  stood  with  China  in  opposing  Moscow  on  issues  of 
peaceful  coexistence,  de-Stalinization,  and  Yugoslavia's  "separate 
road  to  socialism"  through  decentralization  of  economic  life.  The 


46 


Historical  Setting 


Soviet  Union,  other  East  European  countries,  and  China  all  offered 
Albania  large  amounts  of  aid.  Soviet  leaders  also  promised  to  build 
a  large  Palace  of  Culture  in  Tirane  as  a  symbol  of  the  Soviet  peo- 
ple's ''love  and  friendship"  for  the  Albanians.  But  despite  these 
gestures,  Tirane  was  dissatisfied  with  Moscow's  economic  policy 
toward  Albania.  Hoxha  and  Shehu  apparently  decided  in  May  or 
June  1960  that  Albania  was  assured  of  Chinese  support,  and  they 
openly  sided  with  China  when  sharp  polemics  erupted  between  Chi- 
na and  the  Soviet  Union.  Ramiz  Alia,  at  the  time  a  candidate- 
member  of  the  Politburo  and  Hoxha' s  adviser  on  ideological  ques- 
tions, played  a  prominent  role  in  the  rhetorical  batde. 

The  Sino- Soviet  split  burst  into  the  open  in  June  1960  at  a  Roma- 
nian Workers'  Party  congress,  at  which  Khrushchev  attempted  to 
secure  condemnation  of  Beijing.  Albania's  delegation,  alone  among 
the  European  delegations,  supported  the  Chinese.  The  Soviet  Union 
immediately  retaliated  by  organizing  a  campaign  to  oust  Hoxha 
and  Shehu  in  the  summer  of  1960.  Moscow  cut  grain  deliveries 
to  Albania  during  a  drought,  and  the  Soviet  embassy  in  Tirane 
overtly  encouraged  a  pro-Soviet  faction  in  the  APL  to  speak  out 
against  the  party's  pro-Chinese  stand.  Moscow  also  apparently  was 
involved  in  a  plot  within  the  APL  to  unseat  Hoxha  and  Shehu  by 
force.  But  given  their  tight  control  of  the  party  machinery,  the  army, 
and  Shehu 's  secret  police,  the  Directorate  of  State  Security  (Drej- 
torija  e  Sigurimit  te  Shtetit — Sigurimi),  the  two  Albanian  leaders 
easily  parried  the  threat.  Five  pro- Soviet  Albanian  leaders  were 
eventually  tried  and  executed.  China  immediately  began  making 
up  for  the  cancellation  of  Soviet  wheat  shipments  despite  a  pauci- 
ty of  foreign  currency  and  its  own  economic  hardships. 

Albania  again  sided  with  China  when  Hoxha  launched  an  at- 
tack on  the  Soviet  Union's  leadership  of  the  international  com- 
munist movement  at  the  November  1960  Moscow  conference  of 
the  world's  eighty-one  communist  parties.  Hoxha  inveighed  against 
Khrushchev  for  encouraging  Greek  claims  to  southern  Albania, 
sowing  discord  within  the  APL  and  the  army,  and  using  econom- 
ic blackmail.  "Soviet  rats  were  able  to  eat  while  the  Albanian  peo- 
ple were  dying  of  hunger,"  Hoxha  railed,  referring  to  purposely 
delayed  Soviet  grain  deliveries.  Communist  leaders  loyal  to  Moscow 
described  Hoxha's  performance  as  "gangsterish"  and  "infantile," 
and  the  speech  extinguished  any  chance  of  an  agreement  between 
Moscow  and  Tirane.  For  the  next  year,  Albania  played  proxy  for 
China.  Pro-Soviet  communist  parties,  reluctant  to  confront  Chi- 
na directly,  criticized  Beijing  by  castigating  Albania.  China,  for 
its  part,  frequently  gave  prominence  to  the  Albanians'  fulminations 


47 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

against  the  Soviet  Union  and  Yugoslavia,  which  Tirane  referred 
to  as  a  "socialist  hell." 

Hoxha  and  Shehu  continued  their  harangue  against  the  Soviet 
Union  and  Yugoslavia  at  the  APL's  Fourth  Party  Congress  in 
February  1961 .  During  the  congress,  the  Albanian  government  an- 
nounced the  broad  outlines  of  the  country's  Third  Five- Year  Plan 
(1961-65),  which  allocated  54  percent  of  all  investment  to  indus- 
try, thereby  rejecting  Khrushchev's  wish  to  make  Albania  primarily 
an  agricultural  producer.  Moscow  responded  by  canceling  aid  pro- 
grams and  lines  of  credit  for  Albania,  but  the  Chinese  again  came 
to  the  rescue. 

After  additional  sharp  exchanges  between  Soviet  and  Chinese 
delegates  over  Albania  at  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  Twenty-Second  Party  Congress  in  October  1961,  Khru- 
shchev lambasted  the  Albanians  for  executing  a  pregnant,  pro- 
Soviet  member  of  the  Albanian  party  Politburo,  and  the  Soviet 
Union  finally  broke  diplomatic  relations  with  Albania  in  Decem- 
ber. Moscow  then  withdrew  all  Soviet  economic  advisers  and  tech- 
nicians from  the  country,  including  those  at  work  on  the  Palace  of 
Culture,  and  halted  shipments  of  supplies  and  spare  parts  for  equip- 
ment already  in  place  in  Albania.  In  addition,  the  Soviet  Union 
continued  to  dismantle  its  naval  installations  on  Sazan  Island,  a 
process  that  had  begun  even  before  the  break  in  relations. 

China  again  compensated  Albania  for  the  loss  of  Soviet  economic 
support,  supplying  about  90  percent  of  the  parts,  foodstuffs,  and 
other  goods  the  Soviet  Union  had  promised.  Beijing  lent  the  Al- 
banians money  on  more  favorable  terms  than  Moscow,  and,  un- 
like Soviet  advisers,  Chinese  technicians  earned  the  same  low  pay 
as  Albanian  workers  and  lived  in  similar  housing.  China  also 
presented  Albania  with  a  powerful  radio  transmission  station  from 
which  Tirane  sang  the  praises  of  Stalin,  Hoxha,  and  Mao  Zedong 
for  decades.  For  its  part,  Albania  offered  China  a  beachhead  in 
Europe  and  acted  as  China's  chief  spokesman  at  the  UN.  To  Al- 
bania's dismay,  however,  Chinese  equipment  and  technicians  were 
not  nearly  so  sophisticated  as  the  Soviet  goods  and  advisers  they 
replaced.  Ironically,  a  language  barrier  even  forced  the  Chinese 
and  Albanian  technicians  to  communicate  in  Russian.  Albanians 
no  longer  took  part  in  Warsaw  Pact  activities  or  Comecon  agree- 
ments. The  other  East  European  communist  nations,  however,  did 
not  break  diplomatic  or  trade  links  with  Albania.  In  1964  the  Al- 
banians went  so  far  as  to  seize  the  empty  Soviet  embassy  in  Ti- 
rane, and  Albanian  workers  pressed  on  with  construction  of  the 
Palace  of  Culture  on  their  own. 


48 


Historical  Setting 


The  shift  away  from  the  Soviet  Union  wreaked  havoc  on  Alba- 
nia's economy.  Half  of  its  imports  and  exports  had  been  geared 
toward  Soviet  suppliers  and  markets,  so  the  souring  of  Tirane's 
relations  with  Moscow  brought  Albania's  foreign  trade  to  near  col- 
lapse as  China  proved  incapable  of  delivering  promised  machinery 
and  equipment  on  time.  The  low  productivity,  flawed  planning, 
poor  workmanship,  and  inefficient  management  at  Albanian  enter- 
prises became  clear  when  Soviet  and  East  European  aid  and  advisers 
were  withdrawn.  In  1962  the  Albanian  government  introduced  an 
austerity  program,  appealing  to  the  people  to  conserve  resources, 
cut  production  costs,  and  abandon  unnecessary  investment. 

In  October  1964,  Hoxha  hailed  Khrushchev's  fall  from  power, 
and  the  Soviet  Union's  new  leaders  made  overtures  to  Tirane.  It 
soon  became  clear,  however,  that  the  new  Soviet  leadership  had 
no  intention  of  changing  basic  policies  to  suit  Albania,  and  rela- 
tions failed  to  improve.  Tirane's  propaganda  continued  for  decades 
to  refer  to  Soviet  officials  as  "treacherous  revisionists"  and  "trai- 
tors to  communism,"  and  in  1964  Hoxha  said  that  Albania's  terms 
for  reconciliation  were  a  Soviet  apology  to  Albania  and  reparations 
for  damages  inflicted  on  the  country.  Soviet- Albanian  relations 
dipped  to  new  lows  after  the  Warsaw  Pact  invasion  of  Czecho- 
slovakia in  1968,  when  Albania  responded  by  officially  withdraw- 
ing from  the  alliance. 

The  Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution 

In  the  mid-1960s,  Albania's  leaders  grew  wary  of  a  threat  to  their 
power  by  a  burgeoning  bureaucracy.  Party  discipline  had  eroded. 
People  complained  about  malfeasance,  inflation,  and  low-quality 
goods.  Writers  strayed  from  the  orthodoxy  of  socialist  realism,  which 
demanded  that  art  and  literature  serve  as  instruments  of  govern- 
ment and  party  policy.  As  a  result,  after  Mao  unleashed  the  Cul- 
tural Revolution  in  China  in  1965,  Hoxha  launched  his  own 
Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution.  The  Albanian  leader  concen- 
trated on  reforming  the  military,  government  bureaucracy,  and 
the  economy  as  well  as  on  creating  new  support  for  his  Stalinist 
system.  The  regime  abolished  military  ranks,  reintroduced  politi- 
cal commissars  into  the  military,  and  renounced  professionalism 
in  the  army.  Railing  against  a  "white-collar  mentality,"  the  authori- 
ties also  slashed  the  salaries  of  mid-  and  high-level  officials,  ousted 
administrators  and  specialists  from  their  desk  jobs,  and  sent  such 
persons  to  toil  in  the  factories  and  fields.  Six  ministries,  including 
the  Ministry  of  Justice,  were  eliminated.  Farm  collectivization 
spread  to  even  the  remote  mountains.  In  addition,  the  government 
attacked  dissident  writers  and  artists,  reformed  its  education  system, 


49 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

and  generally  reinforced  Albania's  isolation  from  European  cul- 
ture in  an  effort  to  keep  out  foreign  influences. 

In  1967  the  authorities  conducted  a  violent  campaign  to  extin- 
guish religious  life  in  Albania,  claiming  that  religion  had  divided 
the  Albanian  nation  and  kept  it  mired  in  backwardness.  Student 
agitators  combed  the  countryside,  forcing  Albanians  to  quit  prac- 
ticing their  faith.  Despite  complaints,  even  by  APL  members,  all 
churches,  mosques,  monasteries,  and  other  religious  institutions 
had  been  closed  or  converted  into  warehouses,  gymnasiums,  and 
workshops  by  year's  end.  A  special  decree  abrogated  the  charters 
by  which  the  country's  main  religious  communities  had  operated. 
The  campaign  culminated  in  an  announcement  that  Albania  had 
become  the  world's  first  atheistic  state,  a  feat  touted  as  one  of  En- 
ver  Hoxha's  greatest  achievements  (see  Hoxha's  Antireligious  Cam- 
paign, ch.  2). 

Traditional  kinship  links  in  Albania,  centered  on  the  patriar- 
chal family,  were  shattered  by  the  postwar  repression  of  clan  lead- 
ers, collectivization  of  agriculture,  industrialization,  migration  from 
the  countryside  to  urban  areas,  and  suppression  of  religion.  The 
postwar  regime  brought  a  radical  change  in  the  status  of  Albania's 
women.  Considered  second-class  citizens  in  traditional  Albanian 
society,  women  performed  most  of  the  work  at  home  and  in  the 
fields.  Before  World  War  II,  about  90  percent  of  Albania's  wom- 
en were  illiterate,  and  in  many  areas  they  were  regarded  as  chat- 
tels under  ancient  tribal  laws  and  customs.  During  the  Cultural 
and  Ideological  Revolution,  the  party  encouraged  women  to  take 
jobs  outside  the  home  in  an  effort  to  compensate  for  labor  short- 
ages and  to  overcome  their  conservatism.  Hoxha  himself  proclaimed 
that  anyone  who  trampled  on  the  party's  edict  on  women's  rights 
should  be  "hurled  into  the  fire"  (see  Social  Structure  under  Com- 
munist Rule,  ch.  2). 

The  Break  with  China  and  Self-Reliance 

Albanian-Chinese  relations  had  stagnated  by  1970,  and  when 
the  Asian  superpower  began  to  reemerge  from  isolation  in  the  early 
1970s,  Mao  and  the  other  Chinese  leaders  reassessed  their  com- 
mitment to  tiny  Albania.  In  response,  Tirane  began  broadening 
its  contacts  with  the  outside  world.  Albania  opened  trade  negotia- 
tions with  France,  Italy,  and  the  recently  independent  Asian  and 
African  states,  and  in  1971  it  normalized  relations  with  Yugosla- 
via and  Greece.  Albania's  leaders  abhorred  China's  renewal  of  con- 
tacts with  the  United  States  in  the  early  1970s,  and  its  press  and 
radio  ignored  President  Richard  Nixon's  trip  to  Beijing  in  1972. 
Albania  actively  worked  to  reduce  its  dependence  on  China  by 


50 


Albanian  painting  in 
the  socialist-realist  style 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


diversifying  trade  and  improving  diplomatic  and  cultural  relations, 
especially  with  Western  Europe.  But  Albania  shunned  the  Con- 
ference on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  was  the  only 
European  country  that  refused  to  take  part  in  the  Helsinki  Con- 
ference of  July  1975.  Soon  after  Mao's  death  in  1976,  Hoxha  criti- 
cized the  new  leadership  as  well  as  Beijing's  pragmatic  policy  toward 
the  United  States  and  Western  Europe.  The  Chinese  responded 
by  inviting  Tito  to  visit  Beijing  in  1977  and  ending  assistance  pro- 
grams for  Albania  in  1978. 

The  break  with  China  left  Albania  with  no  foreign  protector. 
Tirane  ignored  calls  by  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union 
to  normalize  relations.  Instead,  Albania  expanded  diplomatic  ties 
with  Western  Europe  and  the  developing  nations  and  began  stress- 
ing the  principle  of  self-reliance  as  the  keystone  of  the  country's 
strategy  for  economic  development.  However,  Hoxha' s  cautious 
opening  toward  the  outside  world  had  stirred  up  nascent  move- 
ments for  change  inside  Albania.  As  the  dictator's  health  slipped, 
muted  calls  arose  for  the  relaxation  of  party  controls  and  greater 
openness.  In  response,  Hoxha  launched  a  series  of  purges  that  re- 
moved the  defense  minister  and  many  top  military  officials.  A  year 
later,  Hoxha  purged  ministers  responsible  for  the  economy  and 
replaced  them  with  younger  persons. 

As  Hoxha' s  health  declined,  the  dictator  began  planning  for  an 
orderly  succession.  He  worked  to  institutionalize  his  policies,  hoping 


51 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

to  frustrate  any  attempt  his  successors  might  make  to  venture  from 
the  Stalinist  path  he  had  blazed  for  Albania.  In  December  1976, 
Albania  adopted  its  second  Stalinist  constitution  of  the  postwar  era. 
The  document  "guaranteed"  Albanians  freedom  of  speech,  the 
press,  organization,  association,  and  assembly  but  subordinated 
these  rights  to  the  individual's  duties  to  society  as  a  whole.  The 
constitution  enshrined  in  law  the  idea  of  autarky  and  prohibited 
the  government  from  seeking  financial  aid  or  credits  or  from  form- 
ing joint  companies  with  partners  from  capitalist  or  revisionist  com- 
munist countries.  The  constitution's  preamble  also  boasted  that 
the  foundations  of  religious  belief  in  Albania  had  been  abolished. 

In  1980  Hoxha  turned  to  Ramiz  Alia  to  succeed  him  as  Alba- 
nia's communist  patriarch,  overlooking  his  long-standing  comrade- 
in-arms,  Mehmet  Shehu.  Hoxha  first  tried  to  convince  Shehu  to 
step  aside  voluntarily,  but  when  this  move  failed  Hoxha  arranged 
for  all  the  members  of  the  Politburo  to  rebuke  him  for  allowing 
his  son  to  become  engaged  to  the  daughter  of  a  former  bourgeois 
family.  Shehu  allegedly  committed  suicide  on  December  18,  1981. 
It  is  suspected,  however,  that  Hoxha  had  him  killed.  Hoxha,  ob- 
viously fearing  retaliation,  purged  the  members  of  Shehu 's  family 
and  his  supporters  within  the  police  and  military.  In  November 
1982,  Hoxha  announced  that  Shehu  had  been  a  foreign  spy  work- 
ing simultaneously  for  the  United  States,  British,  Soviet,  and  Yu- 
goslav intelligence  agencies  in  planning  the  assassination  of  Hoxha 
himself.  "He  was  buried  like  a  dog, ' '  the  dictator  wrote  in  the  Al- 
banian edition  of  his  book,  The  Titoites. 

Hoxha  went  into  semiretirement  in  early  1983,  and  Alia  as- 
sumed responsibility  for  Albania's  administration.  Alia  traveled 
extensively  around  Albania,  standing  in  for  Hoxha  at  major  events 
and  delivering  addresses  laying  down  new  policies  and  intoning 
litanies  to  the  enfeebled  president.  When  Hoxha  died  on  April  1 1 , 
1985,  he  left  Albania  a  legacy  of  repression,  technological  back- 
wardness, isolation,  and  fear  of  the  outside  world.  Alia  succeeded 
to  the  presidency  and  became  legal  secretary  of  the  APL  two  days 
later.  In  due  course,  he  became  a  dominant  figure  in  the  Albani- 
an media,  and  his  slogans  appeared  painted  in  crimson  letters  on 
signboards  across  the  country.  The  APL's  Ninth  Party  Congress 
in  November  1986  featured  Alia  as  the  party's  and  the  country's 
undisputed  leader. 

*     *  * 

Because  Albania's  fate  is  so  tightiy  interwoven  with  developments 
in  the  Balkans,  it  is  recommended  that  readers  unfamiliar  with  the 


52 


Historical  Setting 


region  first  examine  Barbara  Jelavich's  two- volume  History  of  the 
Balkans,  which  provides  an  excellent  overview  as  well  as  sections 
on  Albania  and  the  formation  of  the  state.  Robert  Lee  Wolffs  The 
Balkans  in  Our  Time  is  another  useful  survey  of  Balkan  history.  Edith 
Durham's  High  Albania  and  her  other  travelogues  on  Albania  from 
the  early  twentieth  century  read  like  adventure  novels  and  provide 
insight  into  the  cultural  underpinnings  of  the  nationalism  endem- 
ic to  the  Balkans.  The  best  examination  of  the  Albanian  nation- 
alist movement  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  and  the  creation  of 
Albania  itself  are  Stavro  Skendi's  The  Albanian  National  Awakening 
and  Joseph  Swire's  Albania:  The  Rise  of  a  Kingdom.  Anton  Logore- 
ci's  The  Albanians:  Europe's  Forgotten  Survivors  and  Peter  R.  Prifti's 
Socialist  Albania  since  1944:  Domestic  and  Foreign  Developments  are  both 
solidly  grounded  surveys  of  Albania  and  its  trials,  especially  after 
World  War  II.  Postwar  Albania,  especially  the  last  years  of  Enver 
Hoxha's  regime,  is  well  treated  in  Elez  Bibera.y  s  Albania.  No  reader 
on  Albanian  affairs,  in  fact  no  student  of  the  former  communist 
world,  should  overlook  With  Stalin,  The  Titoites,  or  Enver  Hoxha's 
other  official  works,  which  would  be  right  at  home  shelved  beside 
George  Orwell's  A nimal  Farm  and  other  works  in  the  genre  of  dys- 
topian fiction.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


53 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Albanian  family  out  for  a  stroll 


EUROPE'S  LEAST  DEVELOPED  country,  Albania  is  located 
along  the  central  west  coast  of  the  Balkan  Peninsula.  Albania's  Adri- 
atic and  Ionian  coasts  are  adjacent  to  shipping  lanes  that  have  been 
important  since  early  Greek  and  Roman  times.  Tirane,  the  capi- 
tal and  largest  city,  is  less  than  an  hour  by  air  from  eight  other 
European  capitals  and  barely  more  than  two  hours  from  the  most 
distant  of  them.  Yet,  in  large  part  because  of  its  rugged  terrain 
and,  in  recent  times,  its  Stalinist  regime,  Albania  remained  isolat- 
ed from  the  rest  of  Europe  until  the  early  1990s. 

Large  expanses  of  mountainous  and  generally  inaccessible  ter- 
rain provided  refuge  for  the  Albanian  nation  and  permitted  its  dis- 
tinctive identity  to  survive  throughout  the  centuries,  in  spite  of 
successive  foreign  invasions  and  long  periods  of  occupation.  Kin- 
ship and  tribal  affiliations,  a  common  spoken  language,  and  en- 
during folk  customs  provided  continuity  and  a  sense  of  community. 
Foreign  influence  was  inevitable,  however.  Additions  and  modifi- 
cations to  the  language  were  made  as  a  result  of  Latin,  Greek,  Slav- 
ic, and  Turkish  contacts.  Lacking  an  organized  religion  as  part 
of  their  Illyrian  heritage,  Albanians  adopted  the  Muslim,  Ortho- 
dox, and  Roman  Catholic  faiths  brought  to  them  by  their  con- 
querors. 

Following  the  Italian  and  German  occupations  of  World  War 
II,  Albania  was  subjected  to  more  than  forty-six  years  of  authoritar- 
ian rule,  from  which  it  was  emerging,  materially  and  spiritually 
impoverished,  in  1992.  Its  churches  and  mosques  had  been  de- 
stroyed, the  school  system  was  a  shambles,  hospitals  struggled  with 
extreme  shortages  of  basic  medical  supplies,  and  the  hungry,  de- 
jected people  had  come  to  rely  entirely  on  foreign  food  aid  and  other 
forms  of  assistance.  With  the  collapse  of  communism,  a  democrat- 
ically elected  government  faced  the  formidable  challenge  of  end- 
ing decades  of  self-imposed  isolation,  restoring  public  order,  and 
improving  social  conditions  for  the  more  than  3.3  million  people 
of  Albania. 

Physical  Environment 

National  Boundaries 

Albania,  with  a  total  area  of  28,750  square  kilometers,  is  slight- 
ly larger  than  the  state  of  Maryland.  It  shares  a  287-kilometer  border 
with  the  Yugoslav  republics  of  Montenegro  and  Serbia  to  the  north, 


57 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

a  1 5 1 -kilometer  border  with  the  former  Yugoslav  republic  of 
Macedonia  to  the  north  and  east,  and  a  282-kilometer  border  with 
Greece  to  the  south  and  southeast.  Its  coastline  is  362  kilometers 
long.  The  lowlands  of  the  west  face  the  Adriatic  Sea  and  the  stra- 
tegically important  Strait  of  Otranto,  which  puts  less  than  100 
kilometers  of  water  between  Albania  and  the  heel  of  the  Italian 
"boot." 

The  distinct  ethnic  character  of  the  Albanian  people  and  their 
isolation  within  a  generally  definable  area  underscored  their  de- 
mands for  independence  in  the  early  twentieth  century.  In  some 
places,  however,  the  mingling  of  different  ethnic  groups  has  com- 
plicated the  determination  of  national  borders.  Kosovo,  across  the 
northeastern  Albanian  border,  is  a  Serbian- governed  province, 
although  ethnic  Albanians  make  up  over  90  percent  of  its  popula- 
tion. Many  Albanians  still  regard  Kosovo's  status  as  an  issue. 
Greeks  and  Albanians  live  in  the  mountains  on  both  sides  of  the 
southeastern  Albanian  boundary.  Neither  Greece  nor  Albania  is 
satisfied  with  the  division  of  nations  effected  by  their  common 
border. 

With  the  exception  of  the  coastiine,  all  Albanian  borders  are  ar- 
tificial. They  were  established  in  principle  at  the  1912-13  confer- 
ence of  ambassadors  in  London.  The  country  was  occupied  by 
Italian,  Serbian,  Greek,  and  French  forces  during  World  War  I, 
but  the  1913  boundaries  were  essentially  reaffirmed  by  the  victorious 
states  in  1921.  The  original  principle  was  to  define  the  borders  in 
accordance  with  the  best  interests  of  the  Albanian  people  and  the 
nationalities  in  adjacent  areas.  The  northern  and  eastern  borders 
were  intended,  insofar  as  possible,  to  separate  the  Albanians  from 
the  Serbs  and  Montenegrins;  the  southeast  border  was  to  separate 
Albanians  and  Greeks;  the  valuable  western  Macedonian  lake  dis- 
trict was  to  be  divided  among  the  three  states — Albania,  Greece, 
and  Yugoslavia — whose  populations  shared  the  area.  When  there 
was  no  compromise  involving  other  factors,  borderlines  were  chosen 
to  make  the  best  possible  separation  of  national  groups,  connect- 
ing the  best  marked  physical  features  available. 

Allowance  was  made  for  local  economic  situations,  for  example, 
to  prevent  separation  of  a  village  from  its  animals'  grazing  areas 
or  from  the  markets  for  its  produce.  Political  pressures  also  were 
a  factor  in  the  negotiations,  but  the  outcome  was  subject  to  approval 
by  powers  having  relatively  abstract  interests,  most  of  which  involved 
the  balance  of  power  rather  than  specific  economic  ambitions. 

Division  of  the  lake  district  among  three  states  required  that  each 
of  them  have  a  share  of  the  lowlands  in  the  vicinity.  Such  an  artificial 
distribution,  once  made,  necessarily  affected  the  borderlines  to  the 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


north  and  south.  The  border  that  runs  generally  north  from  the 
lakes,  although  it  follows  the  ridges  of  the  eastern  highlands,  stays 
sixteen  to  thirty-two  kilometers  west  of  the  watershed  divide.  Be- 
cause negotiators  at  the  London  conference  declined  to  use  the 
watershed  divide  as  the  northeast  boundary  of  the  new  state  of  Al- 
bania, a  large  Albanian  population  in  Kosovo  was  incorporated 
into  Serbia. 

In  Albania's  far  north  and  the  northeast  mountainous  sections, 
the  border  connects  high  points  and  follows  mountain  ridges  through 
the  largely  inaccessible  North  Albanian  Alps,  known  locally  as 
Bjeshket  e  Namuna.  For  the  most  part,  there  is  no  natural  bound- 
ary from  the  highlands  to  the  Adriatic,  although  Lake  Scutari  and 
a  portion  of  the  Bune  River  south  of  it  were  used  to  mark  Alba- 
nia's northwest  border.  From  the  lake  district  south  and  southwest 
to  the  Ionian  Sea,  the  country's  southeast  border  goes  against  the 
grain  of  the  land,  crossing  a  number  of  ridges  instead  of  following 
them. 

Topography 

The  70  percent  of  the  country  that  is  mountainous  is  rugged  and 
often  inaccessible.  The  remainder,  an  alluvial  plain,  receives  precipi- 
tation seasonally,  is  poorly  drained,  and  is  alternately  arid  or  flood- 
ed. Much  of  the  plain's  soil  is  of  poor  quality.  Far  from  offering 
a  relief  from  the  difficult  interior  terrain,  the  alluvial  plain  is  often 
as  inhospitable  as  the  mountains.  Good  soil  and  dependable  precipi- 
tation, however,  are  found  in  intermontane  river  basins,  in  the  lake 
district  along  the  eastern  frontier,  and  in  a  narrow  band  of  slightly 
elevated  land  between  the  coastal  plains  and  the  interior  moun- 
tains (see  fig.  3). 

In  the  far  north,  the  mountains  are  an  extension  of  the  Dinaric 
Alps  and,  more  specifically,  the  Montenegrin  limestone  plateau. 
Albania's  northern  mountains  are  more  folded  and  rugged, 
however,  than  most  of  the  plateau.  The  rivers  have  deep  valleys 
with  steep  sides  and  arable  valley  floors.  Generally  unnavigable, 
the  rivers  obstruct  rather  than  encourage  movement  within  the  al- 
pine region.  Roads  are  few  and  poor.  Lacking  internal  communi- 
cations and  external  contacts,  a  tribal  society  flourished  in  this  area 
for  centuries.  Only  after  World  War  II  were  serious  efforts  made 
to  incorporate  the  people  of  the  region  into  Albanian  national  life. 

A  low  coastal  belt  extends  from  the  northern  boundary  south- 
ward to  the  vicinity  of  Vlore.  On  average,  it  extends  less  than  six- 
teen kilometers  inland,  but  widens  to  about  fifty  kilometers  in  the 
Elbasan  area  in  central  Albania.  In  its  natural  state,  the  coastal 
belt  is  characterized  by  low  scrub  vegetation,  varying  from  barren 


59 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

to  dense.  There  are  large  areas  of  marshlands  and  other  areas  of 
bare,  eroded  badlands.  Where  elevations  rise  slightly  and  precipi- 
tation is  regular — in  the  foothills  of  the  central  uplands,  for 
example — the  land  is  highly  arable.  Marginal  land  is  reclaimed 
wherever  irrigation  is  possible. 

Just  east  of  the  lowlands,  the  central  uplands,  called  Qermenike 
by  Albanians,  are  an  area  of  generally  moderate  elevations,  be- 
tween 305  and  915  meters,  with  a  few  points  reaching  above  1,520 
meters.  Shifting  along  the  faultline  that  roughly  defines  the  western 
edge  of  the  central  uplands  causes  frequent,  and  occasionally  se- 
vere, earthquakes. 

Although  rugged  terrain  and  points  of  high  elevation  mark  the 
central  uplands,  the  first  major  mountain  range  inland  from  the 
Adriatic  is  an  area  of  predominantly  serpentine  rock  (which  de- 
rives its  name  from  its  dull  green  color  and  often  spotted  appear- 
ance), extending  nearly  the  length  of  the  country,  from  the  North 
Albanian  Alps  to  the  Greek  border  south  of  Korce.  Within  this 
zone,  there  are  many  areas  in  which  sharp  limestone  and  sand- 
stone outcroppings  predominate,  although  the  ranges  as  a  whole 
are  characterized  by  rounded  mountains. 

The  mountains  east  of  the  serpentine  zone  are  the  highest  in  Al- 
bania, exceeding  2,740  meters  in  the  Mai  Korab  range.  Together 
with  the  North  Albanian  Alps  and  the  serpentine  zone,  the  eastern 
highlands  are  the  most  rugged  and  inaccessible  of  any  terrain  on 
the  Balkan  Peninsula. 

The  three  lakes  of  easternmost  Albania — Lake  Ohrid,  Lake  Pres- 
pa,  and  Prespa  e  Vogel — are  remote  and  picturesque.  Much  of 
the  terrain  in  their  vicinity  is  not  overly  steep,  and  it  supports  a 
larger  population  than  any  other  inland  portion  of  the  country. 
Albania's  eastern  border  passes  through  Lake  Ohrid;  all  but  a  small 
tip  of  Prespa  e  Vogel  is  in  Greece;  and  the  point  at  which  the  bound- 
aries of  three  states  meet  is  in  Lake  Prespa.  Each  of  the  two  larger 
lakes  has  a  total  surface  areas  of  about  260  square  kilometers,  and 
Prespa  e  Vogel  is  about  one-fifth  as  large.  The  surface  elevation 
is  about  695  meters  for  Lake  Ohrid  and  855  meters  for  the  other 
two  lakes. 

The  southern  mountain  ranges  are  more  accessible  than  the  ser- 
pentine zone,  the  eastern  highlands,  or  the  North  Albanian  Alps. 
The  transition  to  the  lowlands  is  less  abrupt,  and  the  arable  valley 
floors  are  wider.  Limestone,  the  predominant  mineral,  is  respon- 
sible for  the  cliffs  and  clear  water  of  the  coastiine  southeast  of  Vlore. 
Erosion  of  a  blend  of  softer  rocks  has  provided  the  sediment  that 
has  caused  wider  valleys  to  form  in  the  southern  mountain  area 
than  those  characteristic  of  the  remainder  of  the  country.  This 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


terrain  encouraged  the  development  of  larger  landholding,  thus  in- 
fluencing the  social  structure  of  southern  Albania. 

Drainage 

Nearly  all  of  the  precipitation  that  falls  on  Albania  drains  into 
the  rivers  and  reaches  the  coast  without  even  leaving  the  country. 
In  the  north,  only  one  small  stream  escapes  Albania.  In  the  south, 
an  even  smaller  rivulet  drains  into  Greece.  Because  the  topographi- 
cal divide  is  east  of  the  Albanian  border  with  its  neighbors,  a  con- 
siderable amount  of  water  from  other  countries  drains  through 
Albania.  An  extensive  portion  of  the  basin  of  the  Drini  i  Bardhe 
River,  called  Beli  Drim  by  Serbs,  is  in  the  Kosovo  area,  across 
Albania's  northeastern  border.  The  three  eastern  lakes  that  Alba- 
nia shares  with  its  neighboring  countries,  as  well  as  the  streams 
that  flow  into  them,  drain  into  the  Drini  i  Zi.  The  watershed  di- 
vide in  the  south  also  dips  nearly  seventy-five  kilometers  into  Greece 
at  one  point.  Several  tributaries  of  the  Vjose  River  rise  in  that  area. 

With  the  exception  of  the  Drini  i  Zi,  which  flows  northward  and 
drains  nearly  the  entire  eastern  border  region  before  it  turns  west- 
ward to  the  sea,  most  of  the  rivers  in  northern  and  central  Albania 
flow  fairly  directly  westward  to  the  sea.  In  the  process,  they  cut 
through  the  ridges  rather  than  flow  around  them.  This  apparent 
geological  impossibility  occurs  because  the  highlands  originally  were 
lifted  without  much  folding.  The  streams  came  into  existence  at 
that  time.  The  compression  and  folding  of  the  plateau  into  ridges 
occurred  later.  The  folding  process  was  rapid  enough  in  many  in- 
stances to  dam  the  rivers  temporarily.  The  resulting  lakes  existed 
until  their  downstream  channels  became  wide  enough  to  drain  them. 
This  sequence  created  the  many  interior  basins  that  are  typically 
a  part  of  the  Albanian  landform.  During  the  lifetime  of  the  tem- 
porary lakes,  enough  sediment  was  deposited  in  them  to  form  the 
basis  for  fertile  soils.  Folding  was  rarely  rapid  enough  to  force  the 
streams  into  radically  different  channels. 

The  precipitous  fall  from  higher  elevations  and  the  highly  irregu- 
lar seasonal  flow  patterns  that  are  characteristic  of  nearly  all  streams 
in  the  country  reduce  the  economic  value  of  the  streams.  They 
erode  the  mountains  and  deposit  the  sediment  that  created  the 
lowlands  and  continues  to  augment  them,  but  the  rivers  flood  when 
there  is  local  rainfall.  When  the  lands  are  parched  and  need  irri- 
gation, the  rivers  usually  are  dry.  Their  violence  when  they  are 
full  makes  them  difficult  to  control,  and  they  are  unnavigable.  The 
Bune  River  is  an  exception.  It  is  dredged  between  Shkoder  and 
the  Adriatic  Sea  and  can  be  negotiated  by  small  ships.  In  contrast 
to  their  history  of  holding  fast  to  their  courses  in  the  mountains, 


63 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  rivers  constantly  change  channels  on  the  lower  plains,  making 
waste  of  much  of  the  land  they  create. 

The  Drin  River  is  the  largest  and  most  constant  stream.  Fed 
by  melting  snows  from  the  northern  and  eastern  mountains  and 
by  the  more  evenly  distributed  seasonal  precipitation  of  that  area, 
its  flow  does  not  have  the  extreme  variations  characteristic  of  nearly 
all  other  rivers  in  the  country.  Its  normal  flow  varies  seasonally 
by  only  about  one-third.  Along  its  length  of  about  282  kilometers, 
it  drains  nearly  5,957  square  kilometers  within  Albania.  As  it  also 
collects  water  from  the  Adriatic  portion  of  the  Kosovo  watershed 
and  the  three  border  lakes  (Lake  Prespa  drains  to  Lake  Ohrid  via 
an  underground  stream),  its  total  basin  encompasses  about  15,540 
square  kilometers. 

The  Seman  and  Vjose  are  the  only  other  rivers  that  are  more 
than  160  kilometers  long  and  have  basins  larger  than  2,600  square 
kilometers.  These  rivers  drain  the  southern  regions  and,  reflect- 
ing the  seasonal  distribution  of  rainfall,  are  torrents  in  winter  and 
nearly  dry  in  the  summer  in  spite  of  their  length.  This  variable 
nature  also  characterizes  the  many  shorter  streams.  In  the  sum- 
mer, most  of  them  carry  less  than  a  tenth  of  their  winter  averages, 
if  they  are  not  altogether  dry. 

Although  the  sediment  carried  by  the  mountain  torrents  con- 
tinues to  be  deposited,  new  deposits  delay  exploitation.  Stream 
channels  rise  as  silt  is  deposited  in  them  and  eventually  become 
higher  than  the  surrounding  terrain.  Shifting  channels  frustrate 
development  in  many  areas.  Old  channels  become  barriers  to  proper 
drainage  and  create  swamps  or  marshlands.  In  general,  it  is  difficult 
to  build  roads  or  railroads  across  the  lowlands  or  otherwise  use  the 
land. 

Irrigation  has  been  accomplished  on  a  small  scale  by  Albanian 
peasants  for  many  years.  Large  irrigation  projects  were  not  com- 
pleted, however,  until  after  World  War  II.  Such  projects  include 
the  Vjose-Levan-Fier  irrigation  canal,  with  an  irrigation  capacity 
of  15,000  hectares,  and  the  reservoir  at  Thane  in  Lushnje  District, 
with  an  irrigation  capacity  of  35,100  hectares.  In  1986  nearly 
400,000  hectares  of  land,  or  56  percent  of  the  total  cultivated  area, 
were  under  irrigation,  compared  with  29,000  hectares,  or  10  per- 
cent of  the  total  cultivated  area,  in  1938. 

Climate 

With  its  coastline  facing  the  Adriatic  and  Ionian  seas,  its  high- 
lands backed  upon  the  elevated  Balkan  landmass,  and  the  entire 
country  lying  at  a  latitude  subject  to  a  variety  of  weather  patterns 
during  the  winter  and  summer  seasons,  Albania  has  a  high  number 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  climatic  regions  for  so  small  an  area.  The  coastal  lowlands  have 
typically  Mediterranean  weather;  the  highlands  have  a  Mediter- 
ranean continental  climate.  In  both  the  lowlands  and  the  interior, 
the  weather  varies  markedly  from  north  to  south. 

The  lowlands  have  mild  winters,  averaging  about  7°C.  Sum- 
mer temperatures  average  24°C,  humidity  is  high,  and  the  weather 
tends  to  be  oppressively  uncomfortable.  In  the  southern  lowlands, 
temperatures  average  about  five  degrees  higher  throughout  the  year. 
The  difference  is  greater  than  five  degrees  during  the  summer  and 
somewhat  less  during  the  winter. 

Inland  temperatures  are  affected  more  by  differences  in  eleva- 
tion than  by  latitude  or  any  other  factor.  Low  winter  temperatures 
in  the  mountains  are  caused  by  the  continental  air  mass  that 
dominates  the  weather  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Balkans.  North- 
erly and  northeasterly  winds  blow  much  of  the  time.  Average  sum- 
mer temperatures  are  lower  than  in  the  coastal  areas  and  much 
lower  at  higher  elevations,  but  daily  fluctuations  are  greater.  Day- 
time maximum  temperatures  in  the  interior  basins  and  river  val- 
leys are  very  high,  but  the  nights  are  almost  always  cool. 

Average  precipitation  is  heavy,  a  result  of  the  convergence  of 
the  prevailing  airflow  from  the  Mediterranean  Sea  and  the  con- 
tinental air  mass.  Because  the  convergence  usually  comes  at  the 
point  where  the  terrain  rises,  the  heaviest  rain  falls  in  the  central 
uplands.  Vertical  currents  initiated  when  the  Mediterranean  air 
is  uplifted  also  cause  frequent  thunderstorms.  Many  of  these  storms 
are  accompanied  by  high  local  winds  and  torrential  downpours. 

When  the  continental  air  mass  is  weak,  Mediterranean  winds 
drop  their  moisture  farther  inland.  When  there  is  a  dominant  con- 
tinental air  mass,  cold  air  spills  onto  the  lowland  areas,  which  oc- 
curs most  frequently  in  the  winter.  Because  the  season's  lower 
temperatures  damage  olive  trees  and  citrus  fruits,  groves  and  or- 
chards are  restricted  to  sheltered  places  with  southern  and  western 
exposures  even  in  areas  with  high  average  winter  temperatures. 

Lowland  rainfall  averages  from  1,000  millimeters  to  more  than 
1,500  millimeters  annually,  with  the  higher  levels  in  the  north. 
Nearly  95  percent  of  the  rain  falls  in  the  winter. 

Rainfall  in  the  upland  mountain  ranges  is  heavier.  Adequate 
records  are  not  available,  and  estimates  vary  widely,  but  annual 
averages  are  probably  about  1,800  millimeters  and  are  as  high  as 
2,550  millimeters  in  some  northern  areas.  The  seasonal  variation 
is  not  quite  as  great  in  the  coastal  area. 

The  higher  inland  mountains  receive  less  precipitation  than  the 
intermediate  uplands.  Terrain  differences  cause  wide  local  varia- 
tions, but  the  seasonal  distribution  is  the  most  consistent  of  any  area. 


65 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  Albanian  People 
Population 

The  average  annual  growth  rate  of  the  Albanian  population  for 
the  period  1960-90  was  2.4  percent,  or  approximately  three  to  four 
times  higher  than  that  of  other  European  countries.  Population 
growth  was  actively  encouraged  by  the  government,  which  deemed 
it ' 'essential  for  the  further  strengthening  and  prosperity  of  socialist 
society."  Albania  had  a  population  of  3,335,000  in  July  1991,  com- 
pared with  2,761,000  in  mid-1981  and  1,626,000  in  1960.  The  most 
sparsely  populated  Balkan  country  until  1965,  Albania  attained  a 
population  density  of  111  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer  in 
1989 — the  highest  in  the  Balkans.  The  1991  growth  rate  was  1.8 
percent. 

In  1991  Albania  had  a  birth  rate  of  24  per  1,000,  and  its  death 
rate  had  declined  from  14  per  1,000  in  1950  to  5  per  1,000.  A 
concomitant  of  the  reduced  death  rate  was  an  increase  in  life 
expectancy.  Official  Albanian  sources  indicated  that  average  life 
expectancy  at  birth  increased  from  fifty-three  years  in  1950  to 
seventy-two  years  for  males  and  seventy-nine  years  for  females  in 
1991.  The  population  was  among  the  most  youthful  in  Europe, 
with  an  average  age  of  twenty-seven  years,  and  the  fertility  rate — 2.9 
children  born  per  woman — was  one  of  Europe's  highest. 

Albania  is  the  only  country  in  Europe  with  more  males  than 
females.  The  disparity  in  the  male-to-female  ratio,  which  was 
1,055:1,000  in  1970,  had  increased  to  the  point  where  males  ac- 
counted for  51 .5  percent  of  the  population  in  1990.  This  discrepancy 
was  attributed  in  part  to  a  higher  mortality  rate  among  female  in- 
fants, caused  by  neglect  and  the  traditional  deference  accorded  male 
progeny.  Losses  in  World  War  II,  estimated  by  the  United  Na- 
tions at  30,000  persons,  or  2.5  percent  of  the  population,  appar- 
ently had  little  influence  on  the  ratio  of  males  to  females. 

Ethnicity 

Gegs  and  Tosks 

Among  ethnic  Albanians  are  two  major  subgroups:  the  Gegs,  who 
generally  occupy  the  area  north  of  the  Shkumbin  River,  and  the 
Tosks,  most  of  whom  live  south  of  the  river.  The  Gegs  account  for 
slightly  more  than  half  of  the  resident  Albanian  population.  Ethnic 
Albanians  are  estimated  to  account  for  90  percent  of  the  population. 

The  Gegs  and  Tosks  use  distinct  dialects;  there  are  also  linguis- 
tic variations  within  subgroups.  Well  into  the  twentieth  century, 
ethnic  clans  exercised  extensive  local  authority,  particularly  in  the 


66 


A  beach  outside  the  port  town  of  Dunes 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

north.  Some  progress  was  made  during  the  reign  of  King  Zog  I 
(r.  1928-39),  however,  toward  bringing  the  clans  under  govern- 
ment control  and  eliminating  blood  feuds. 

After  taking  power  in  1944,  the  communist  regime  imposed  con- 
trols intended  to  eliminate  clan  rule  entirely  and  waged  a  continu- 
ing struggle  against  customs  and  attitudes  believed  to  impede  the 
growth  of  socialism.  Blood  feuds  were  repressed.  Party  and  govern- 
ment leaders,  in  their  effort  to  develop  national,  social,  and  cul- 
tural solidarity  in  a  communist  society,  publicly  tended  to  ignore 
ethnic  differences. 

Communist  leader  Enver  Hoxha,  first  secretary  of  the  Albanian 
Party  of  Labor  and  head  of  state  until  his  death  in  1985,  came  from 
the  south.  He  received  the  bulk  of  his  support  during  World  War 
II  from  that  area  and  frequently  gave  preference  to  persons  and 
customs  of  Tosk  origin.  Most  party  and  government  executives 
were  Tosk  speakers  and  of  Muslim  background.  The  Gegs,  who 
had  dominated  Albanian  politics  before  1945,  were  educationally 
disadvantaged  by  the  adoption  of  a  "standard  literary  Albanian 
language"  based  on  the  Tosk  dialect. 

Because  of  their  greater  isolation  in  the  mountainous  areas  of 
the  north,  the  Gegs  held  on  to  their  tribal  organization  and  cus- 
toms more  tenaciously  than  did  the  Tosks.  As  late  as  the  1920s, 


67 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


approximately  20  percent  of  male  deaths  in  some  areas  of  north- 
ern Albania  were  attributable  to  blood  feuds.  Under  the  unwrit- 
ten tribal  codes,  whose  purview  included  the  regulation  of  feuds, 
any  blow,  as  well  as  many  offenses  committed  against  women,  called 
for  vengeance.  Permitting  a  girl  who  had  been  betrothed  in  infancy 
to  marry  another,  for  example,  could  set  off  a  blood  feud.  The  besa, 
a  pledge  to  keep  one's  word  as  a  solemn  obligation,  was  given  in 
various  situations  and  sometimes  included  promises  to  postpone 
quarrels.  A  man  who  killed  a  fellow  tribesman  was  commonly 
punished  by  his  neighbors,  who  customarily  would  burn  his  house 
and  destroy  his  property.  As  fugitives  from  their  own  communi- 
ties, such  persons  were  often  given  assistance  by  others. 

A  man  who  failed  to  carry  out  the  prescribed  vengeance  against 
a  member  of  another  tribe  or  that  individual's  relatives  was  sub- 
jected to  ridicule.  Insult  was  considered  one  of  the  gravest  forms 
of  dishonor,  and  the  upholding  of  one's  honor  was  the  primary 
duty  of  a  Geg.  If  the  individual  carried  out  the  required  act  of  ven- 
geance, he  was  in  turn  subject  to  retribution  by  the  victim's  rela- 
tives. Women  were  excluded  from  the  feud,  and  when  a  man 
escorted  a  woman  he  too  was  considered  inviolable.  In  other  re- 
spects, however,  a  woman's  lot  in  society  generally  was  one  of  depri- 
vation and  subjugation. 

The  isolation  from  influences  beyond  his  community  and  the 
constant  struggle  with  nature  tended  to  make  the  male  Geg  an  ascet- 
ic. Traditionally  his  closest  bonds  were  with  members  of  his  clan. 
Obstinate  and  proud,  the  Gegs  had  proved  themselves  ruthless  and 
cruel  fighters.  Visitors  from  outside  the  clan  generally  were  sus- 
pect, but  every  traveler  was  by  custom  accorded  hospitality. 

Less  isolated  by  geography  and  enjoying  slightly  less  limited  con- 
tact with  foreign  cultures,  Tosks  generally  were  more  outspoken 
and.  imaginative  than  Gegs.  Contacts  with  invaders  and  foreign 
occupiers  had  left  an  influence,  and  before  1939  some  Tosks  had 
traveled  to  foreign  countries  to  earn  money  to  buy  land,  or  to  ob- 
tain an  education.  The  clan  or  tribal  system,  which  by  the  nine- 
teenth century  was  far  less  extensive  in  the  south  than  in  the  north, 
began  to  disappear  after  independence  was  achieved  in  1912. 

Greeks  and  Other  Minorities 

The  Greek  minority,  Albania's  largest,  has  deep  roots  in  the 
country's  two  southeasternmost  districts,  Sarande  and  Gjirokaster, 
in  an  area  many  Greeks  call  Northern  Epirus  (see  fig.  1).  Estimates 
of  the  size  of  the  Greek  population  in  1989  varied  from  59,000, 
or  1  percent  of  the  total  (from  the  official  Albanian  census),  to 
266,800,  or  8  percent  (from  data  published  by  the  United  States 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


government),  to  as  high  as  400,000,  or  12  percent  (from  the  "Epirot 
lobby"  of  Greeks  with  family  roots  in  Albania).  Greeks  were  harshly 
affected  by  the  communist  regime's  attempts  to  homogenize  the 
population  through  restrictions  on  the  religious,  cultural,  educa- 
tional, and  linguistic  rights  of  minorities.  Internal  exile  and  other 
population  movements  served  as  instruments  of  policy  to  dilute  con- 
centrations of  Greeks  and  to  deprive  Greeks  of  their  status  as  a 
recognized  minority.  Despite  improvements  in  Greco- Albanian 
relations  during  the  late  1980s  and  a  significant  increase  in  cross- 
border  visits,  reports  of  persecution,  harassment,  and  discrimina- 
tion against  Greeks,  as  well  as  other  minorities,  persisted. 

Smaller  ethnic  groups,  including  Bulgarians,  Gypsies,  Jews, 
Macedonians,  Montenegrins,  Serbs,  and  Vlachs,  altogether  account 
for  about  2  percent  of  the  total  population.  Persons  of  Macedoni- 
an and  Bulgarian  origin  live  mostly  in  the  border  area  near  Lake 
Prespa.  The  Vlachs,  akin  to  modern  Romanians,  are  most  numer- 
ous in  the  Pindus  Mountains  and  in  the  districts  of  Fier,  Korce, 
and  Vlore.  A  few  persons  of  Serbian  and  Montenegrin  derivation 
reside  around  the  city  of  Shkoder.  There  are  small  Jewish  com- 
munities in  Tirane,  Vlore,  and  Korce,  and  Gypsies  are  scattered 
throughout  the  country. 

Albanians  in  Kosovo 

Large  numbers  of  ethnic  Albanians  live  outside  the  country,  in 
Italy,  Greece,  Turkey,  the  United  States,  and  especially  in  Yu- 
goslavia or  its  former  republics  (see  fig.  4).  Estimates  based  on  Yu- 
goslav census  data  indicated  that  the  number  of  Albanians  in 
Yugoslavia  in  1981  totaled  more  than  1.7  million,  or  almost  8  per- 
cent of  the  country's  total  population,  of  which  about  70  percent 
resided  in  Kosovo,  a  province  of  Serbia;  20  percent  in  Macedo- 
nia; and  9  percent  in  Montenegro.  The  predominantly  Albanian 
Kosovo  had  the  highest  birthrate  in  Europe  and  one  of  the  highest 
in  the  world:  29.9  per  1,000  in  1987.  Persons  under  twenty-seven 
years  old  accounted  for  60  percent  of  Kosovo's  total  population, 
and  students — a  reservoir  of  political  ferment — over  30  percent. 
In  1981  only  12  percent  of  the  Albanian  population  in  Kosovo  was 
employed. 

Student  protests  over  living  conditions  in  early  1981  led  to  bloody 
riots  throughout  Kosovo,  which  accelerated  the  exodus  of  Serbs 
and  Montenegrins.  The  number  of  departures  totalled  60,000  be- 
tween 1981  and  1991 .  Haunted  by  the  specter  of  secession,  the  Ser- 
bian government  resorted  to  repressive  measures,  culminating  in 
the  revocation  of  Kosovo's  autonomous  status  in  July  1990. 
Hundreds  of  Albanian  activists  were  tried  and  imprisoned,  and 


69 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  4.  Distribution  of  Ethnic  Albanians  on  the  Balkan  Peninsula,  1992 

a  campaign  was  launched  to  entice  Serbs  to  settle  in  Kosovo.  Ser- 
bian authorities  suspended  publication  of  the  Albanian-language 
daily  Rilindja,  alleging  that  it  had  become  a  "mouthpiece"  of  Al- 
banian nationalists.  A  Serbian-language  standard  curriculum  was 
introduced  for  all  middle  and  secondary  schools.  The  action  led 
to  protests  by  thousands  of  students  and  parents.  As  a  result  of 
the  curriculum's  implementation,  many  Albanian-language  schools 
had  to  be  closed.  At  Kosovo's  University  of  Pristina,  student  place- 
ments were  reserved,  in  disproportion  to  the  population,  for  eth- 
nic Serbs  and  Montenegrins — many  from  outside  Kosovo.  (Even 
though  a  number  of  these  reserved  places  were  not  filled  in  the  fall 
of  1990,  Albanian  applicants  were  denied  admission  to  the  univer- 
sity.) Discrimination  against  Albanians  seeking  employment  or 
housing  was  rampant. 

Languages  and  Dialects 

The  Albanian  language  is  spoken  by  nearly  all  inhabitants  of 
Albania,  as  well  as  by  the  vast  majority  of  the  population  of  neigh- 
boring Kosovo.  Greeks,  Macedonians,  and  other  ethnic  groups  in 
Albania  use  their  ancestral  languages,  in  addition  to  Albanian, 
to  the  extent  that  this  right  can  be  exercised.  Ethnic  minorities, 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


according  to  the  testimony  of  many  emigres,  were  in  the  past  for- 
bidden to  speak  their  own  languages  in  public. 

A  member  of  the  Indo-European  family  of  languages,  modern 
Albanian  is  derived  from  ancient  Illyrian  and  Thracian.  Additions 
and  modifications  were  made  as  a  result  of  foreign  contacts,  be- 
ginning in  the  pre-Christian  era.  The  most  significant  of  these 
changes  were  the  result  of  Latin  influence  during  the  centuries  of 
Roman  domination,  Italian  influences  resulting  from  trade  with 
Venice  during  the  Renaissance,  and  Italian  hegemony  over  Alba- 
nia in  more  recent  times.  Contributions  also  were  made  by  the 
Greeks,  Turks,  and  Slavs.  Because  the  first  written  documents  in 
Albanian  did  not  appear  until  the  fifteenth  century,  tracing  the  early 
development  of  the  language  is  difficult. 

Beginning  in  the  fifteenth  century  and  continuing  over  a  period  of 
some  450  years,  the  repressive  policies  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  rulers 
retarded  language  development.  Writing  in  Albanian  was  forbidden, 
and  only  the  Turkish  or  Greek  languages  could  be  used  in  schools. 
Emigre  Albanians,  particularly  those  living  in  Italy,  helped  keep 
the  written  forms  of  the  language  alive.  Until  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, the  language  was  sustained  in  Turkish-dominated  areas  largely 
by  verbal  communication,  including  ballads  and  folk  tales. 

By  the  early  twentieth  century,  more  than  a  dozen  different  al- 
phabets were  being  used  by  Albanians.  Some  were  predominant- 
ly Latin,  Greek,  or  Turko-Arabic.  Many  were  a  mixture  of  several 
forms.  It  was  not  until  1908  that  a  standardized  orthography  was 
adopted.  The  Latin-based  alphabet  of  twenty-six  letters,  approved 
at  that  time  by  a  linguistic  congress  at  Monastir  (now  Bitola,  in 
Macedonia),  was  made  official  by  a  government  directive  in  1924 
and  continued  to  be  in  use  in  the  early  1990s. 

The  two  principal  Albanian  dialects  are  Geg,  spoken  by  about 
two-thirds  of  the  people,  including  almost  all  Albanians  in  Koso- 
vo, and  Tosk,  used  by  the  remaining  third.  Within  each  dialect, 
there  are  subdialects.  Despite  the  variations  that  have  developed 
in  the  many  isolated  communities,  Albanians  generally  commu- 
nicate well  with  each  other. 

During  the  1920s  and  1930s,  the  government  attempted  to  es- 
tablish the  dialect  of  the  Elbasan  area,  which  was  a  mixture  of  Geg 
and  Tosk,  as  the  official  language.  The  local  dialects  persisted, 
however,  and  writers  and  even  officials  continued  to  use  the  di- 
alect of  their  association.  After  Hoxha  acceded  to  power,  the  Tosk 
dialect  became  the  official  language  of  the  country.  Some  scholars 
saw  the  imposition  of  "standard"  Albanian  as  a  political  scheme 
to  denigrate  the  Geg  dialect  and  culture. 


71 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Population  1955: 1.4  million 


not  necessarily  authoritative 


—  International  boundary 

 District  boundary 

National  capital 
Populated  place 


3.000   6,000   10,000  50,000  200,000 
Urban  population 


25  Kilometers 


GREECE 


Ionian 
Sea 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Orjan  Sjoberg,  Rural  Change  and  Development  in  Albania, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1991,  60-61. 


Figure  5.  Population  Density  by  District,  1955 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


0  25  Kilometers 

1  1  i  1    'i  1  i1  1  1 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Orjan  Sjoberg,  Rural  Change  and  Development  in  Albania, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1991,  60-61. 


Figure  6.  Population  Density  by  District,  1988 


73 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Settlement  Patterns 

In  the  early  1990s,  Albania  remained  predominantly  rural,  with 
about  65  percent  of  the  population  living  in  villages  or  the  coun- 
tryside. Urban  dwellers,  whose  proportion  of  the  national  popula- 
tion had  increased  from  one-fifth  to  almost  one-third  between  1950 
and  1970,  accounted  for  about  34  percent  in  the  1980s  (see  fig. 
5;  fig.  6).  Rural-to-urban  migration  was  contained  as  a  result  of 
the  regime's  aggressive  programs,  initiated  during  the  Third  Five- 
Year  Plan  (1961-65),  to  restrict  urban  growth,  build  up  agricul- 
ture, and  accelerate  rural  development.  (The  campaign  to  improve 
rural  living  conditions  is  best  exemplified  by  the  expansion  of  the 
electric-power  network  to  every  village  in  the  country  by  the  winter 
of  1970.)  The  average  village  grew  from  about  400  residents  in 
1955  to  nearly  700  in  1980. 

The  most  heavily  settied  areas  are  in  the  western  part  of  the  coun- 
try, in  particular  the  fertile  lowlands.  In  1987  population  density 
ranged  from  30  persons  per  square  kilometer  in  the  eastern  dis- 
trict of  Kolonje  to  281  persons  per  square  kilometer  in  the  coastal 
district  of  Durres.  The  proportion  of  urban  dwellers  was  highest 
in  the  districts  of  Tirane  (67  percent),  Durres  (49  percent),  and 
Vlore  (47  percent)  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 

Several  factors  have  contributed  to  the  pattern  of  settlement. 
Large  expanses  of  mountains  and  generally  rugged  terrain  com- 
plicate construction  of  land  transportation  routes.  In  many  areas, 
large  concentrations  of  people  cannot  be  supported  because  of  poor 
soil  and  a  lack  of  water  during  part  of  the  year.  Minerals  and  other 
natural  resources  generally  are  not  readily  accessible  or  are  other- 
wise difficult  to  exploit. 

Of  the  sixty-six  cities  and  towns  in  Albania,  nine  had  popula- 
tions greater  than  25,000  in  1987.  Tirane,  the  capital  and  largest 
city,  grew  from  about  60,000  inhabitants  in  1945  to  226,000  in 
1987,  largely  because  of  the  expansion  of  industry  and  government 
bureaucracy.  Located  on  the  inner  margin  of  the  coastal  plain,  the 
capital  is  surrounded  by  an  area  of  relatively  good  soil.  Tirane  is 
the  country's  main  political,  industrial,  educational,  and  cultural 
center.  Other  major  towns  are  Durres,  the  principal  port,  Elba- 
san,  Shkoder,  and  Vlore.  About  44  percent  of  all  towns  had  fewer 
than  5,000  inhabitants  in  1987. 

Social  System 

Traditional  Social  Patterns  and  Values 

The  social  structure  of  the  country  was,  until  the  1930s,  basi- 
cally tribal  in  the  north  and  semifeudal  in  the  central  and  southern 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


regions.  The  highlanders  of  the  north  retained  their  medieval  pat- 
tern of  life  until  well  into  the  twentieth  century  and  were  consid- 
ered the  last  people  in  Europe  to  preserve  tribal  autonomy.  In  the 
central  and  southern  regions,  increasing  contact  with  the  outside 
world  and  invasions  and  occupations  by  foreign  armies  gradually 
weakened  tribal  society. 

Traditionally  there  have  been  two  major  subcultures  in  the  Al- 
banian nation:  the  Gegs  in  the  north  and  the  Tosks  in  the  south. 
The  Gegs,  partly  Roman  Catholic  but  mostly  Muslim,  lived  until 
after  World  War  II  in  a  mountain  society  characterized  by  blood 
feuds  and  fierce  clan  and  tribal  loyalties.  The  Tosks,  whose  num- 
ber included  many  Muslims  as  well  as  Orthodox  Christians,  were 
less  culturally  isolated  mainly  because  of  centuries  of  foreign  in- 
fluence. Because  they  had  came  under  the  rule  of  the  Muslim  landed 
aristocracy,  the  Tosks  had  apparently  largely  lost  the  spirit  of  in- 
dividuality and  independence  that  for  centuries  characterized  the 
Gegs,  especially  in  the  highlands. 

Until  the  end  of  World  War  II,  society  in  the  north  and,  to  a 
much  lesser  extent,  in  the  south,  was  organized  in  terms  of  kin- 
ship and  descent.  The  basic  unit  of  society  was  the  extended  fami- 
ly, usually  composed  of  a  couple,  their  married  sons,  the  wives  and 
children  of  the  sons,  and  any  unmarried  daughters.  The  extended 
family  formed  a  single  residential  and  economic  entity  held  together 
by  common  ownership  of  means  of  production  and  common  in- 
terest in  the  defense  of  the  group.  Such  families  often  included  scores 
of  persons,  and,  as  late  as  1944,  some  encompassed  as  many  as 
sixty  to  seventy  persons  living  in  a  cluster  of  huts  surrounding  the 
father's  house. 

Extended  families  were  grouped  into  clans  whose  chiefs  preserved 
patriarchal  powers  over  the  entire  group.  The  clan  chief  arranged 
marriages,  assigned  tasks,  settled  disputes,  and  set  the  course  to 
be  followed  concerning  essential  matters  such  as  blood  feuds  and 
politics.  Descent  was  traced  from  a  common  ancestor  through  the 
male  line,  and  brides  usually  were  chosen  from  outside  the  clan. 
Clans  in  turn  were  grouped  into  tribes. 

In  the  Tosk  regions  of  the  south,  the  extended  family  was  also 
the  most  important  social  unit,  although  patriarchal  authority  had 
been  diluted  by  the  feudal  conditions  usually  imposed  by  the  Muslim 
bey  (see  Glossary). 

Social  leadership  in  the  lowlands  was  concentrated  in  the  hands 
of  the  semifeudal  local  tribal  bey  and  pasha  (see  Glossary).  The 
region  around  Tirane,  for  example,  was  controlled  by  the  Zogolli, 
Toptani,  and  Vrioni  families,  all  Muslims  and  all  owners  of  ex- 
tensive agricultural  estates.  Ahmed  Zogu,  subsequently  King  Zog  I, 


75 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


was  from  the  Zogolli  family.  Originally  pashas  ranked  slightly  higher 
than  beys,  but  differences  gradually  diminished  and  just  the  term 
bey  remained  in  use.  In  the  northern  highlands,  the  bajraktar  (see 
Glossary)  was  the  counterpart  of  the  bey  and  enjoyed  similar  heredi- 
tary rights  to  titles  and  positions. 

The  Geg  clans  put  great  importance  on  marriage  traditions.  Ac- 
cording to  custom,  a  young  man  always  married  a  young  woman 
from  outside  his  clan  but  from  within  his  tribe.  In  some  tribes, 
marriages  between  Christians  and  Muslims  were  tolerated,  but  as 
a  rule  such  unions  were  frowned  upon. 

A  variety  of  offenses  against  women  could  spark  blood  feuds. 
Many  females  were  engaged  to  marry  in  their  infancy  by  their  par- 
ents. If  later  a  woman  did  not  wish  to  marry  the  man  whom  the 
parents  had  chosen  for  her  and  married  another,  in  all  likelihood 
a  blood  feud  would  ensue.  Among  the  Tosks,  religious  beliefs  and 
customs  were  more  important  than  clan  and  tribal  traditions  in 
the  regulation  of  marriage. 

For  centuries,  the  family  was  the  basic  unit  of  the  country's  so- 
cial structure.  To  a  great  extent,  the  privacy  of  the  family  supplanted 
that  of  the  state.  Children  were  brought  up  to  respect  their  elders 
and,  above  all,  their  father,  whose  word  was  law  within  the  con- 
fines of  his  family. 

Upon  the  death  of  the  father,  family  authority  devolved  upon 
his  oldest  son.  The  females  of  the  household  occupied  an  inferior 
position;  they  were  confined  at  home,  treated  like  servants,  and 
not  allowed  to  eat  at  the  same  table  with  the  men.  When  the  time 
came  for  sons  to  set  up  their  own  households,  all  parental  property 
was  distributed  equally  among  them.  Females  owned  no  property 
and  did  not  have  the  right  to  seek  divorce.  In  northern  Albania, 
the  ancient  Code  of  Lek  permitted  the  husband  "to  beat  his  wife 
and  to  bind  her  in  chains  if  she  defies  his  words  and  orders." 

Geographical  conditions  affected  Tosk  social  organization. 
Southern  Albania's  accessibility  led  to  its  coming  much  more  firmly 
under  Ottoman  control.  In  turn,  the  Ottoman  Empire's  rule  result- 
ed in  the  breakup  of  the  large,  independent,  family  landholdings 
and  their  replacement  by  extensive  estates  owned  by  powerful  Mus- 
lims, each  with  his  own  retinue,  fortresses,  and  large  cohort  of  tenant 
peasants  to  work  his  lands.  These  landowners'  allegiance  to  the 
sultans  was  secured  by  the  granting  of  administrative  positions  either 
at  home  or  elsewhere  in  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

The  consolidation  of  the  large  estates  was  a  continuous  process. 
Landowning  beys  would  entrap  peasants  into  their  debt  and  thus 
establish  themselves  as  semifeudal  patrons  of  formerly  independent 
villagers.  In  this  way,  a  large  Muslim  aristocracy  developed  in  the 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


south,  while  the  majority  of  the  Tosk  peasants  assumed  the  charac- 
teristics of  an  oppressed  social  class.  As  late  as  the  1930s,  two-thirds 
of  the  best  land  in  central  and  southern  Albania  belonged  to  large 
landowners. 

The  tribal  society  of  the  Geg  highlanders  contrasted  sharply  with 
that  of  the  passive,  oppressed  Tosk  peasantry,  most  of  whose  mem- 
bers lived  on  the  large  estates  of  the  beys  and  were  often  represented 
in  the  political  arena  by  the  beys  themselves.  The  Tosk  semifeudal 
society  survived  in  the  south  well  into  the  twentieth  century.  After 
independence  was  achieved  in  1912,  however,  a  small  Tosk  mid- 
dle class  began  to  develop.  In  the  early  1920s,  that  group,  finding 
common  interests  with  the  more  enlightened  beys,  played  a  major 
role  in  attempts  to  create  a  modern  society.  But  in  1925  Ahmet 
Zogu  curbed  Tosk  influence  and  cemented  his  power  in  the  tribal 
north  by  governing  through  influential  tribal  and  clan  chiefs.  To 
secure  the  loyalty  of  these  chiefs,  he  placed  them  on  the  govern- 
ment payroll  and  sent  several  back  to  their  tribes  with  the  military 
rank  of  colonel.  In  1928  a  new  constitution  declared  Albania  a  king- 
dom and  Zogu  the  monarch.  King  Zog  I  ruled  until  the  Italian 
invasion  in  1939. 

Social  Structure  under  Communist  Rule 

Albania's  general  class  structure  at  the  time  of  the  communist 
takeover  in  1944  consisted  of  peasants  and  workers,  who  made  up 
the  lower  class,  and  a  small  upper  class.  Representing  over  80  per- 
cent of  the  total  population,  most  peasants  lived  at  no  better  than 
subsistence  level.  Nonagricultural  workers  numbered  about  30,000 
persons,  most  of  whom  worked  in  the  mines  and  in  the  small  han- 
dicraft industries.  The  upper  class,  whose  capital  was  invested  most- 
ly in  trade,  commerce,  and  the  Italian  industrial  concessions, 
comprised  professional  people  and  intellectuals,  merchants  with 
small  and  medium- sized  enterprises,  moneylenders,  and  well-to- 
do  artisans.  Industrialists  also  belonged  to  the  upper  class,  although 
generally  they  owned  very  small  industries  and  workshops. 

The  clergy  of  the  major  religious  denominations  did  not  form 
a  distinct  social  group.  Members  of  the  higher  clergy  typically  were 
upper-class  intellectuals;  income  from  the  fairly  extensive  church 
estates  and  state  subsidies  provided  them  with  a  comfortable,  but 
not  luxurious  living.  The  rank-and-file  clerics,  however,  were  of 
peasant  origin,  and  most  of  their  parishes  were  as  impoverished 
as  the  peasant  households  they  served. 

A  new  social  order  was  legally  instituted  in  Albania  with  the  adop- 
tion of  the  first  communist  constitution  in  March  1946,  which  creat- 
ed a  "state  of  workers  and  laboring  peasants"  and  abolished  all 


77 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

ranks  and  privileges  based  on  heredity  (such  as  those  enjoyed  by 
tribal  chiefs  and  the  beys),  position,  wealth,  or  cultural  standing. 
According  to  the  constitution,  all  citizens  were  equal,  regardless 
of  nationality,  race,  or  religion. 

Communist  spokesmen  listed  three  principal  social  classes  as 
prevalent  in  the  early  years  of  the  regime:  the  working  class,  the 
laboring  peasants,  and  the  so-called  exploiting  class,  that  is,  the 
landowners  in  the  agricultural  economy  and  the  bourgeoisie  in 
trade.  The  "exploiting  class"  was  liquidated  during  the  early  stages 
of  the  regime.  The  bourgeoisie  was  destroyed  by  the  nationaliza- 
tion of  industry,  transport,  mines,  and  banks,  as  well  as  by  the 
establishment  of  a  state  monopoly  on  foreign  commerce  and  state 
control  over  internal  trade.  The  feudal  landlords  disappeared  with 
the  application  of  the  agrarian  reforms  of  1945-46.  These  steps 
were  followed  by  a  program  of  rapid  industrialization,  whose  result 
was  the  creation  of  a  substantial  working  class.  A  program  of 
agricultural  collectivization  had  as  its  stated  goal  the  formation  of 
a  homogeneous  peasant  class.  Eventually  all  individual  farmers  were 
collectivized,  the  artisan  collectives  were  converted  to  state  indus- 
trial enterprises,  the  number  of  private  traders  was  reduced  to  a 
minimum,  and  members  of  the  clergy  who  avoided  imprisonment 
or  execution  were  sent  to  work  either  in  industrial  plants  or  agricul- 
tural collectives. 

Aside  from  the  workers  and  peasants,  the  only  group  to  which 
the  Tirane  authorities  continued  to  give  special  attention  was  the 
intelligentsia.  Usually  termed  a  layer  or  stratum  of  the  new  social 
order,  the  intelligentsia  was  considered  by  the  communist  regime 
to  be  a  special  social  group  because  of  the  country's  need  for  pro- 
fessional, technical,  and  cultural  talent.  To  justify  this  special 
attention,  ideologists  often  quoted  Lenin  to  the  effect  that  "the  in- 
telligentsia will  remain  a  special  stratum  until  the  communist  so- 
ciety reaches  its  highest  development." 

The  communist  regime,  however,  transformed  the  social  com- 
position of  the  intelligentsia.  From  1944  to  1948,  this  transforma- 
tion involved  purging  a  number  of  Western-educated  intellectuals, 
whom  the  regime  deemed  potentially  dangerous,  as  well  as  some 
high-level  communist  intellectuals  who  were  suspected  of  having 
anti- Yugoslav  or  pro-Western  sentiments.  The  remaining  intellec- 
tuals were  "reeducated"  and  employed  in  training  new  personnel 
for  work  in  industry,  government  service,  and  the  party  bureau- 
cracy. As  a  rule,  the  subsequent  generation  of  intellectuals  toed 
the  communist  party  line.  A  notable  exception  was  Albania's  fore- 
most writer,  Ismail  Kadare,  who  managed  to  walk  a  tightrope  be- 
tween conformity  and  dissent  until  his  defection  to  France  in  1990. 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  theoretical  egalitarian  social  order  had  little  in  common  with 
the  real  class  structure  that  existed  in  the  country  until  1991,  when 
the  communist  party  lost  its  monopoly  on  power.  In  fact,  there 
existed  different  classes  and  gradations  of  rank  and  privilege,  be- 
ginning with  an  upper  class  composed  of  the  party  elite,  particu- 
larly Political  Bureau  (Politburo)  and  Central  Committee  members. 
In  this  category  were  also  leaders  of  the  state  and  mass  organiza- 
tions, and  high-ranking  officers  of  the  military  and  internal  secu- 
rity forces.  Top  party  officials  and  their  families  received  special 
medical  care,  exclusive  housing  in  a  protected  compound  in  Ti- 
rane,  free  food  and  liquor,  vacation  allowances,  entertainment  sub- 
sidies, and  many  other  perquisites.  At  government  expense,  they 
purchased  stylish  French  and  Italian  clothing,  cosmetics,  appliances, 
and  vacation  homes.  An  inquiry  conducted  by  Albania's  newly 
formed  coalition  government  in  1991  concluded  that  "the  former 
party  leadership  created  for  itself  every  opportunity  to  acquire 
privileges  and  enrich  itself  while  the  people  were  deceived  by  bo- 
gus and  cynical  propaganda  about  a  struggle  against  privileges, 
luxury,  and  inequality." 

Just  below  the  Politburo  and  the  Central  Committee  were  the 
vast  party  and  government  bureaucracies,  professional  people  and 
intellectuals,  and  managers  of  state  industrial  and  agricultural  en- 
terprises. The  top  party  elite  was  distinct  from  the  lower  party  and 
state  functionaries  in  terms  of  privileges,  influence,  authority,  and 
responsibility.  The  group  of  lower  party  and  state  officials  were 
bound  together  by  the  economic  privileges  and  prestige  that  went 
with  their  positions  and  membership  in,  or  sympathy  for,  the  Al- 
banian Party  of  Labor,  as  the  communist  party  was  called  from 
1948  to  1991.  These  officials  all  benefited  from  their  association 
with  the  regime  and  enjoyed  educational  and  economic  advantages 
denied  the  rest  of  the  population.  Below  this  group  were  the  rank- 
and-file  party  members,  whose  leadership  role  was  constitutionally 
guaranteed.  Aside  from  the  prestige  they  enjoyed  as  party  members, 
however,  their  privileges  and  economic  benefits  did  not  differ  much 
from  those  of  the  next  lower  class  in  the  social  structure,  the  workers. 

Constituting  an  estimated  47  percent  of  the  total  population  in 
1985,  the  working  class  (which,  according  to  the  official  classifica- 
tion, included  rural  dwellers  employed  by  state  farms)  was  created 
after  the  communist  seizure  of  power  and  composed  almost  wholly 
of  peasants.  Although  under  constant  pressure  to  increase  produc- 
tivity, exceed  production  norms,  and  perform  "volunteer"  labor, 
workers  were  entitled  to  an  annual  two- week  paid  vacation.  State- 
subsidized  rest  houses  for  this  purpose  were  established  at  various 
locations  across  the  country. 


79 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  regime's  policy  of  complete  agricultural  collectivization 
deprived  peasants  of  their  landholdings,  except  for  tiny  personal 
plots,  and  required  them  to  work  on  collective  farms.  Despite 
government  attempts  to  equalize  the  wages  of  peasants  and  work- 
ers, peasant  income  remained  approximately  at  subsistence  level. 
One  or  two  members  of  a  peasant  family  would  often  engage  in 
rural  nonagricultural  occupations,  such  as  mining  or  forestry,  that 
offered  superior  wages  and  benefits. 

Soon  after  adoption  of  the  constitution  of  1946,  new  laws  were 
implemented  regulating  marriage  and  divorce.  Marriages  had  to 
be  contracted  before  an  official  of  the  local  People's  Council.  Af- 
ter 1967,  religious  wedding  ceremonies  were  forbidden.  The  mini- 
mum age  for  marriage  was  set  at  sixteen  for  women  and  eighteen 
for  men.  Because  marriage  was  now  supposed  to  be  based  on  the 
full  equality  of  both  spouses,  the  concept  of  the  father  as  head  of 
the  family,  recognized  by  precommunist  civil  law  and  considered 
essential  to  Albanian  family  life,  was  officially  deprived  of  legitima- 
cy. A  husband  and  wife  now  had  the  legal  right  to  choose  their 
own  residence  and  professions.  However,  marriage  to  foreigners 
was  prohibited  except  with  the  permission  of  the  government. 

The  new  divorce  laws  were  designed  to  facilitate  proceedings. 
The  separation  of  spouses  was  made  grounds  for  divorce,  and  in 
such  cases  a  court  could  grant  a  divorce  without  considering  relat- 
ed facts  or  the  causes  of  the  separation.  Either  spouse  could  ask 
for  a  divorce  on  the  basis  of  incompatibility  of  character,  continued 
misunderstandings,  irreconcilable  hostility,  or  for  any  other  rea- 
son that  disrupted  marital  relations  to  the  point  where  cohabita- 
tion had  become  intolerable.  Certain  crimes  committed  by  the 
spouse,  especially  so-called  crimes  against  the  state  and  crimes  in- 
volving moral  turpitude,  were  also  recognized  as  grounds  for 
divorce.  In  divorce  cases,  custody  of  children  was  granted  to  the 
parent  "with  better  moral  and  political  conditions  for  the  children's 
proper  education." 

About  27,400  marriages  were  contracted  in  1987,  about  8.9  per 
1,000  inhabitants.  There  were  more  than  2,500  divorces  in  the  same 
year,  or  about  0.8  per  1,000  inhabitants. 

Article  41  of  the  1976  constitution  guaranteed  women  equal  rights 
with  men  "in  work,  pay,  holidays,  social  security,  education,  in 
all  sociopolitical  activity,  as  well  as  in  the  family."  About  33  per- 
cent of  the  party's  active  members  in  1988  were  women,  as  well 
as  over  40  percent  of  those  elected  to  the  people's  councils.  Nearly 
one-half  of  the  country's  students  were  women.  Statistics  showed 
that  women  accounted  for  47  percent  of  the  work  force. 


80 


81 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  progress  during  the  communist  regime,  significant  in- 
equalities remained.  In  1990  only  one  full  member  of  the  ruling 
Politburo  was  a  woman.  In  agriculture  the  predominantly  female 
work  force  generally  had  male  supervisors.  Women  were  under- 
represented  in  certain  professions,  particularly  engineering.  Further- 
more, until  1991 ,  abortions  were  illegal  and  women  were  encouraged 
to  have  "as  many  children  as  possible,"  in  addition  to  working 
outside  the  home.  Some  traditional  practices,  such  as  the  presen- 
tation of  dowries  and  arranged  marriages,  reportedly  were  con- 
doned by  the  authorities. 

Throughout  its  existence,  the  communist  regime  persisted  in  its 
campaign  against  the  patriarchal  family  system.  In  the  mountainous 
north,  where  vestiges  of  traditional  tribal  structures  were  particu- 
larly prevalent,  the  local  patriarchs  were  detained  and  the  property 
of  their  clans  was  appropriated.  Patriarchalism,  according  to  party 
propaganda,  was  the  most  dangerous  internal  challenge  to  Alba- 
nian society. 

Religion 
Before  1944 

One  of  the  major  legacies  of  nearly  five  centuries  of  Ottoman 
rule  was  the  conversion  of  up  to  70  percent  of  the  Albanian  popu- 
lation to  Islam.  Therefore,  at  independence  the  country  emerged 
as  a  predominantly  Muslim  nation,  the  only  Islamic  state  in  Eu- 
rope. No  census  taken  by  the  communist  regime  after  it  assumed 
power  in  1944  indicated  the  religious  affiliations  of  the  people.  It 
has  been  estimated  that  of  a  total  population  of  1,180,500  at  the 
end  of  World  War  II,  about  826,000  were  Muslims,  212,500  were 
Orthodox,  and  142,000  were  Roman  Catholics.  The  Muslims  were 
divided  into  two  groups:  about  600,000  adherents  of  the  Sunni  (see 
Glossary)  branch  and  more  than  220,000  followers  of  a  dervish  order 
known  as  Bektashi  (see  Glossary),  which  was  an  offshoot  of  the 
Shia  (see  Glossary)  branch.  Bektashism  was  regarded  as  a  toler- 
ant Muslim  sect  that  also  incorporated  elements  of  paganism  and 
Christianity. 

Christianity  was  introduced  during  Roman  rule.  After  the  divi- 
sion of  the  Roman  Empire  in  395,  Albania  became  politically  a 
part  of  the  Eastern,  or  Byzantine,  Empire,  but  remained  ecclesiasti- 
cally dependent  on  Rome.  When  the  final  schism  occurred  in  1054 
between  the  Roman  and  Eastern  churches,  the  Christians  in 
southern  Albania  came  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  ecumenical 
patriarch  in  Constantinople  (see  Glossary),  and  those  in  the  north 
came  under  the  purview  of  the  papacy  in  Rome.  This  arrangement 


82 


The  eighteenth-century  mosque 
of  Ethem  Bey  on  Skanderbeg 
Square  in  the  heart  of  Tiran'e 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


The  mosque  of  Ethem  Bey 
(close-up) 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


•III!" 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

prevailed  until  the  Ottoman  invasions  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
when  the  Islamic  faith  was  introduced.  The  conversion  of  the  peo- 
ple to  Islam  took  many  decades. 

In  the  mountainous  north,  the  propagation  of  Islam  was  strongly 
opposed  by  Roman  Catholics.  Gradually,  however,  backwardness, 
illiteracy,  the  absence  of  an  educated  clergy,  and  material  induce- 
ments weakened  resistance.  Coerced  conversions  sometimes  oc- 
curred, especially  when  foreign  Roman  Catholic  powers,  such  as 
the  Venetian  Republic,  were  at  war  with  the  Ottoman  Empire. 
By  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century,  the  Catholics  in  the  north 
were  outnumbered  by  the  Muslims. 

After  the  Ottoman  conquest,  thousands  of  Orthodox  Christians 
fled  from  southern  Albania  to  Sicily  and  southern  Italy,  where  their 
descendants,  most  of  whom  joined  the  Uniate  Church  (see  Glos- 
sary), still  constitute  a  sizable  community.  Large-scale  forced  con- 
versions of  the  Orthodox  Christians  who  remained  in  Albania  did 
not  occur  until  the  seventeenth  century  and  the  Russo-Turkish  wars 
of  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries.  Pressure  was  put  on 
the  Orthodox  Christians  because  the  Ottoman  Turks  considered 
the  members  of  this  group  sympathetic  to  Orthodox  Russia.  The 
situation  of  the  Orthodox  adherents  improved  temporarily  after 
the  Treaty  of  Kuchuk-Kainarji  (1774),  in  which  Russia  was  recog- 
nized as  the  protector  of  the  Orthodox  followers  in  the  Ottoman 
Empire.  The  most  effective  method  employed  by  the  Ottoman 
Turks  in  their  missionary  efforts,  especially  in  the  central  and 
southern  parts  of  the  country,  was  the  creation  of  a  titled  Muslim 
class  of  pashas  and  beys  who  were  endowed  with  both  large  es- 
tates and  extensive  political  and  administrative  powers.  Through 
their  political  and  economic  influence,  these  nobles  controlled  the 
peasants,  large  numbers  of  whom  were  converted  to  Islam  either 
through  coercion  or  the  promise  of  economic  benefits. 

In  the  period  from  independence  to  the  communist  seizure  of 
power,  the  Muslim  noble  class  constituted  Albania's  ruling  elite, 
but  this  group  never  interfered  with  religious  freedom,  which  was 
sanctioned  by  the  various  pre- World  War  II  constitutions.  These 
constitutions  had  stipulated  that  the  country  have  no  official  religion, 
that  all  religions  be  respected,  and  that  their  freedom  of  exercise 
be  assured.  These  provisions  reflected  the  true  feelings  of  the  peo- 
ple who,  whether  Muslim,  Orthodox,  or  Roman  Catholic,  were 
generally  tolerant  in  religious  matters. 

For  generations,  religious  pragmatism  was  a  distinctive  trait  of 
the  Albanians.  Even  after  accepting  Islam,  many  people  privately 
remained  practicing  Christians.  As  late  as  1912,  in  a  large  num- 
ber of  villages  in  the  Elbasan  area,  most  men  had  two  names,  a 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Muslim  one  for  public  use  and  a  Christian  one  for  private  use. 
Adherence  to  ancient  pagan  beliefs  also  continued  well  into  the 
twentieth  century,  particularly  in  the  northern  mountain  villages, 
many  of  which  were  devoid  of  churches  and  mosques.  A  Roman 
Catholic  intellectual,  Vaso  Pashko  (1825-92),  made  the  trenchant 
remark,  later  co-opted  by  Enver  Hoxha,  that  "the  religion  of  the 
Albanians  is  Albanianism." 

Hoxha's  Antireligious  Campaign 

A  dogmatic  Stalinist,  Hoxha  considered  religion  a  divisive  force 
and  undertook  an  active  campaign  against  religious  institutions, 
despite  the  virtual  absence  of  religious  intolerance  in  Albanian  so- 
ciety. The  Agrarian  Reform  Law  of  August  1945,  for  example, 
nationalized  most  property  of  religious  institutions,  including  the 
estates  of  monasteries,  orders,  and  dioceses.  Many  clergy  and  be- 
lievers were  tried,  tortured,  and  executed.  All  foreign  Roman 
Catholic  priests,  monks,  and  nuns  were  expelled  in  1946. 

In  January  1949,  almost  three  years  after  the  adoption  of  the 
first  communist  constitution,  which  guaranteed  freedom  of  religion, 
the  government  issued  a  far-reaching  Decree  on  Religious  Com- 
munities. The  law  required  that  religious  communities  be  sanc- 
tioned by  the  state,  that  they  comply  with  "the  laws  of  the  state, 
law  and  order,  and  good  customs,"  and  that  they  submit  all  ap- 
pointments, regulations,  and  bylaws  for  approval  by  the  govern- 
ment. Even  pastoral  letters  and  parish  announcements  were  subject 
to  the  approval  of  party  officials.  Religious  communities  or  branches 
that  had  their  headquarters  outside  the  country,  such  as  the  Jesuit 
and  Franciscan  orders,  were  henceforth  ordered  to  terminate  their 
activities  in  Albania.  Religious  institutions  were  forbidden  to  have 
anything  to  do  with  the  education  of  the  young  because  that  had 
been  made  the  exclusive  province  of  the  state.  All  religious  com- 
munities were  prohibited  from  owning  real  estate  and  from  oper- 
ating philanthropic  and  welfare  institutions  and  hospitals. 

Although  there  were  tactical  variations  in  Hoxha's  approach  to 
each  of  the  major  denominations,  his  overarching  objective  was 
the  eventual  destruction  of  all  organized  religion  in  Albania.  In 
the  late  1940s  and  1950s,  the  regime  achieved  control  over  the  Mus- 
lim faith  by  formalizing  the  split  between  the  Sunni  and  Bektashi 
sects,  eliminating  all  leaders  who  opposed  Hoxha's  policies,  and 
exploiting  those  who  were  more  tractable.  Steps  were  also  taken 
to  purge  all  Orthodox  clergy  who  did  not  yield  to  the  demands  of 
the  regime,  and  to  use  the  church  as  a  means  of  mobilizing  the 
Orthodox  population  behind  government  policies.  The  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  chiefly  because  it  maintained  close  relations  with 


85 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  Vatican  and  was  more  highly  organized  than  the  Muslim  and 
Orthodox  faiths,  became  the  principal  target  of  persecution.  Be- 
tween 1945  and  1953,  the  number  of  priests  was  reduced  drasti- 
cally and  the  number  of  Roman  Catholic  churches  was  decreased 
from  253  to  100.  All  Catholics  were  stigmatized  as  fascists,  although 
only  a  minority  had  collaborated  with  the  Italian  occupation  authori- 
ties during  World  War  II. 

The  campaign  against  religion  peaked  in  the  1960s.  Inspired  by 
China's  Cultural  Revolution,  Hoxha  called  for  an  aggressive 
cultural-educational  struggle  against  "religious  superstition"  and 
assigned  the  antireligious  mission  to  Albania's  students.  By  May 
1967,  religious  institutions  had  been  forced  to  relinquish  all  2,169 
churches,  mosques,  cloisters,  and  shrines  in  Albania,  many  of  which 
were  converted  into  cultural  centers  for  young  people.  As  the  literary 
monthly  Nendori  reported  the  event,  the  youth  had  thus  "created 
the  first  atheist  nation  in  the  world." 

The  clergy  were  publicly  vilified  and  humiliated,  their  vestments 
taken  and  desecrated.  Many  Muslim  mullahs  and  Orthodox 
priests  buckled  under  and  renounced  their  "parasitic"  past.  More 
than  200  clerics  of  various  faiths  were  imprisoned,  others  were  forced 
to  seek  work  in  either  industry  or  agriculture,  and  some  were  ex- 
ecuted or  starved  to  death.  The  cloister  of  the  Franciscan  order 
in  Shkoder  was  set  on  fire,  which  resulted  in  the  death  of  four  elderly 
monks. 

All  previous  decrees  that  had  officially  sanctioned  the  nominal 
existence  of  organized  religion  were  annulled  in  1967.  Subsequently, 
the  1976  constitution  banned  all  "fascist,  religious,  warmonger- 
ish,  antisocialist  activity  and  propaganda,"  and  the  penal  code  of 
1977  imposed  prison  sentences  of  three  to  ten  years  for  "religious 
propaganda  and  the  production,  distribution,  or  storage  of  reli- 
gious literature."  A  new  decree  that  in  effect  targeted  Albanians 
with  Christian  names  stipulated  that  citizens  whose  names  did  not 
conform  to  "the  political,  ideological,  or  moral  standards  of  the 
state"  were  to  change  them.  It  was  also  decreed  that  towns  and 
villages  with  religious  names  must  be  renamed.  Thus,  in  the 
southern  areas  populated  by  ethnic  Greeks,  about  ninety  towns  and 
places  named  after  Greek  Orthodox  saints  received  secular  names. 

Hoxha' s  brutal  antireligious  campaign  succeeded  in  eradicat- 
ing formal  worship,  but  some  Albanians  continued  to  practice  their 
faith  clandestinely,  risking  severe  punishment.  Individuals  caught 
with  Bibles,  icons,  or  other  religious  objects  faced  long  prison  sen- 
tences. Parents  were  afraid  to  pass  on  their  faith,  for  fear  that  their 
children  would  tell  others.  Officials  tried  to  entrap  practicing 
Christians  and  Muslims  during  religious  fasts,  such  as  Lent  and 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Ramadan,  by  distributing  dairy  products  and  other  forbidden  foods 
in  school  and  at  work,  and  then  publicly  denouncing  those  who 
refused  the  food.  Clergy  who  conducted  secret  services  were  in- 
carcerated; in  1980,  a  Jesuit  priest  was  sentenced  to  "life  until 
death"  for  baptizing  his  nephew's  newborn  twins. 

The  Revival  of  Religion 

In  the  1980s,  officials  grudgingly  began  to  concede  that  the  cam- 
paign against  religion  had  not  been  entirely  successful,  and  indeed 
probably  was  counterproductive.  A  sociological  study  revealed  that 
over  95  percent  of  the  country's  young  people  were  choosing  spouses 
of  the  same  religious  background,  whereas,  prior  to  the  antireli- 
gious  onslaught,  marriages  between  Muslims  and  Christians  were 
not  uncommon.  Albania's  government  also  became  more  sensi- 
tive to  the  barrage  of  criticism  from  the  international  community. 
Hoxha's  successor,  Ramiz  Alia,  adopted  a  relatively  tolerant  stance 
toward  religious  practice,  referring  to  it  as  "a  personal  and  fam- 
ily matter. ' '  Emigre  clergymen  were  permitted  to  reenter  the  coun- 
try in  1988  and  officiate  at  religious  services.  Mother  Teresa,  an 
ethnic  Albanian,  visited  Tirane  in  1989,  where  she  was  received 
by  the  foreign  minister  and  by  Hoxha's  widow.  In  December  1990, 
the  ban  on  religious  observance  was  officially  lifted,  in  time  to  al- 
low thousands  of  Christians  to  attend  Christmas  services. 

Religious  leaders  estimated  that  95  percent  of  all  mosques  and 
churches  had  been  razed  or  gutted  during  the  years  of  communist 
rule.  A  few  had  been  spared  and  designated  as  "cultural  monu- 
ments." Others,  such  as  the  Roman  Catholic  cathedral  in  Shkoder, 
were  converted  to  sports  arenas.  The  status  of  the  clergy  was  equally 
appalling;  the  number  of  Roman  Catholic  priests,  for  example, 
had  declined  from  300  in  1944,  when  the  communists  took  power, 
to  thirty  by  early  1992.  In  1992  plans  were  under  way  to  restore 
the  houses  of  worship,  seminaries  were  being  reopened,  and  several 
Islamic  countries  had  sent  teachers  to  provide  religious  instruction 
to  young  Albanian  Muslims  who  knew  virtually  nothing  about  their 
religion.  "Hoxha  destroyed  the  human  soul,"  an  official  of  Alba- 
nia's new  noncommunist  government  observed,  adding,  "This  will 
take  generations  to  restore." 

Education 

Precommunist  Era 

As  late  as  1946,  about  85  percent  of  the  people  were  illiterate, 
principally  because  schools  using  the  Albanian  language  had  been 
practically  nonexistent  in  the  country  before  it  became  independent 


87 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

in  1912.  Until  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  the  Ottoman  rulers  had 
prohibited  use  of  the  Albanian  language  in  schools.  Turkish  was 
spoken  in  the  few  schools  that  served  the  Muslim  population,  but 
these  institutions  were  located  mainly  in  cities  and  large  towns. 
The  schools  for  Orthodox  Christian  children  were  under  the  su- 
pervision of  the  Constantinople  Ecumenical  Patriarchate.  The 
teachers  at  these  schools  usually  were  recruited  from  the  Ortho- 
dox clergy,  and  the  language  of  instruction  was  Greek.  The  first 
school  known  to  use  Albanian  in  modern  times  was  a  Franciscan 
seminary  that  opened  in  1861  in  Shkoder. 

From  about  1880  to  1910,  several  Albanian  patriots  intent  on 
creating  a  sense  of  national  consciousness  founded  elementary 
schools  in  a  few  cities  and  towns,  mostly  in  the  south,  but  these 
institutions  were  closed  by  the  Ottoman  authorities.  The  advent 
of  the  Young  Turks  (see  Glossary)  movement  in  1908  motivated 
the  Albanian  patriots  to  intensify  their  efforts,  and  in  the  same  year 
a  group  of  intellectuals  met  in  Monastir  to  choose  an  Albanian  al- 
phabet. Books  written  in  Albanian  before  1908  had  used  a  mix- 
ture of  alphabets,  consisting  mostiy  of  combinations  of  Latin,  Greek, 
and  Turkish- Arabic  letters. 

The  participants  in  the  Monastir  meeting  developed  a  unified 
alphabet  based  on  Latin  letters.  A  number  of  textbooks  soon  were 
written  in  the  new  alphabet,  and  Albanian  elementary  schools 
opened  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  In  1909,  to  meet  the  de- 
mand for  teachers  able  to  teach  in  the  native  tongue,  a  normal  school 
was  established  in  Elbasan.  But  in  1910,  the  Young  Turks,  fear- 
ing the  emergence  of  Albanian  nationalism,  closed  all  schools  that 
used  Albanian  as  the  language  of  instruction. 

Even  after  Albania  became  independent,  schools  were  scarce. 
The  unsettled  political  conditions  caused  by  the  Balkan  wars  and 
by  World  War  I  hindered  the  development  of  a  unified  education 
system.  The  foreign  occupying  powers,  however,  opened  some 
schools  in  their  respective  areas  of  control,  each  power  offering  in- 
struction in  its  own  language.  A  few  of  these  schools,  especially 
the  Italian  and  French  ones,  continued  to  function  after  World  War 
I  and  played  a  significant  role  in  introducing  Western  educational 
methods  and  principles.  Particularly  important  was  the  National 
Lycee  of  Korce,  in  which  the  language  of  instruction  was  French. 

Soon  after  the  establishment  in  1920  of  a  national  government, 
which  included  a  ministry  of  education,  the  foundation  was  laid 
for  a  national  education  system.  Elementary  schools  were  opened 
in  the  cities  and  some  of  the  larger  towns,  and  the  Italian  and  French 
schools  that  had  opened  during  World  War  I  were  strengthened. 
In  the  meantime,  two  important  American  schools  were  founded: 


88 


Unrestored  Roman  Catholic 
church  converted  by  the 
communist  regime  into  an 
industrial  facility  and  reclaimed 
in  1991  by  local  Catholics 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


Priest  with  previously  hidden 
religious  artifacts,  Shkoder 
Courtesy  Fred  Conrad 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  American  Vocational  School  in  Tirane,  established  by  the 
American  Junior  Red  Cross  in  1921;  and  the  American  Agricul- 
tural School  in  Kavaje,  sponsored  by  the  Near  East  Foundation. 
Several  future  communist  party  and  government  luminaries  were 
educated  in  the  foreign  schools:  Enver  Hoxha  graduated  from  the 
National  Lycee  in  1930,  and  Mehmet  Shehu,  who  would  become 
prime  minister,  completed  studies  at  the  American  Vocational 
School  in  1932. 

In  the  1920s,  the  period  when  the  foundations  of  the  modern 
Albanian  state  were  laid,  considerable  progress  was  made  toward 
development  of  a  genuinely  Albanian  education  system.  In  1933 
the  Royal  Constitution  was  amended  to  make  the  education  of 
citizens  an  exclusive  right  of  the  state.  All  foreign-language  schools, 
except  the  American  Agricultural  School,  were  either  closed  or  na- 
tionalized. This  move  was  intended  to  stop  the  rapid  spread  of 
schools  sponsored  directly  by  the  Italian  government,  especially 
among  Roman  Catholics  in  the  north. 

The  nationalization  of  schools  was  followed  in  1934  by  a  far- 
reaching  reorganization  of  the  entire  education  system.  The  new 
system  called  for  compulsory  elementary  education  from  the  ages 
of  four  to  fourteen.  It  also  provided  for  the  expansion  of  second- 
ary schools  of  various  kinds;  the  establishment  of  new  technical, 
vocational,  and  commercial  secondary  schools;  and  the  accelera- 
tion and  expansion  of  teacher  training.  The  obligatory  provisions 
of  the  1934  reorganization  law  were  never  enforced  in  rural  areas 
because  the  peasants  needed  their  children  to  work  in  the  fields, 
and  because  of  a  lack  of  schoolhouses,  teachers,  and  means  of  trans- 
portation. 

The  only  minority  schools  operating  in  Albania  before  World 
War  II  were  those  for  the  Greek  minority  living  in  the  district  of 
Gjirokaster.  These  schools  too  were  closed  by  the  constitutional 
amendment  of  1933,  but  Greece  referred  the  case  to  the  Interna- 
tional Permanent  Court  of  Justice,  which  forced  Albania  to  reopen 
them. 

Pre-World  War  II  Albania  had  no  university-level  education  and 
all  advanced  studies  were  pursued  abroad.  Every  year  the  state 
granted  a  limited  number  of  scholarships  to  deserving  high  school 
graduates,  who  otherwise  could  not  afford  to  continue  their  edu- 
cation. But  the  largest  number  of  university  students  came  from 
well-to-do  families  and  thus  were  privately  financed.  The  great 
majority  of  the  students  attended  Italian  universities  because  of  their 
proximity  and  because  of  the  special  relationship  between  the  Rome 
and  Tirane  governments.  The  Italian  government  itself,  follow- 
ing a  policy  of  political,  economic,  military,  and  cultural  penetration 


90 


of  the  country,  granted  a  number  of  scholarships  to  Albanian  stu- 
dents recommended  by  its  legation  in  Tirane. 

Soon  after  the  Italians  occupied  Albania  in  April  1939,  the  edu- 
cation system  came  under  complete  Italian  control.  Use  of  the 
Italian  language  was  made  compulsory  in  all  secondary  schools, 
and  the  fascist  ideology  and  orientation  were  incorporated  into  the 
curricula.  After  1941,  however,  when  guerrilla  groups  began  to 
operate  against  the  Italian  forces,  the  whole  education  system  be- 
came paralyzed.  Secondary  schools  became  centers  of  resistance 
and  guerrilla  recruitment,  and  many  teachers  and  students  went 
to  the  mountains  to  join  resistance  groups.  By  September  1943, 
when  Italy  capitulated  to  the  Allies  and  German  troops  invaded 
and  occupied  Albania,  education  had  come  to  a  complete  standstill. 

Education  under  Communist  Rule 

Upon  taking  power  in  late  1944,  the  communist  regime  gave 
high  priority  to  reopening  the  schools  and  organizing  the  whole 
education  system  to  reflect  communist  ideology.  The  regime's  ob- 
jectives for  the  new  school  system  were  to  wipe  out  illiteracy  in 


91 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  country  as  soon  as  possible,  to  struggle  against '  'bourgeois  sur- 
vivals" in  the  country's  culture,  to  transmit  to  Albanian  youth  the 
ideas  and  principles  of  communism  as  interpreted  by  the  party, 
and  finally  to  educate  the  children  of  all  social  classes  on  the  basis 
of  these  principles.  The  1946  communist  constitution  made  it  clear 
that  the  regime  intended  to  bring  all  children  under  the  control 
of  the  state.  All  schools  were  soon  placed  under  state  management. 

The  1946  Education  Reform  Law  provided  specifically  that 
Marxist-Leninist  principles  would  permeate  all  school  texts.  This 
law  also  made  the  struggle  against  illiteracy  a  primary  objective 
of  the  new  school  system.  In  September  1949,  the  government  pro- 
mulgated a  law  requiring  all  citizens  between  the  ages  of  twelve  and 
forty  who  could  not  read  to  attend  classes  in  reading  and  writing. 
Courses  for  illiterate  peasants  were  established  by  the  education 
sections  of  the  people's  councils.  The  political  organs  of  the  armed 
forces  provided  parallel  courses  for  illiterate  military  personnel. 

In  addition  to  providing  for  free  seven-year  obligatory  elemen- 
tary schooling  and  four-year  secondary  education,  the  1946  law 
called  for  the  establishment  of  a  network  of  vocational,  trade,  and 
teacher- training  schools  to  prepare  personnel,  technicians,  and 
skilled  workers  for  various  social,  cultural,  and  economic  activi- 
ties. Another  education  law  adopted  in  1948  provided  for  the  fur- 
ther expansion  of  vocational  and  professional  courses  to  train  skilled 
and  semiskilled  workers  and  to  increase  the  theoretical  and  profes- 
sional knowledge  of  the  technicians. 

In  the  1950s,  the  school  system  was  given  a  thorough  Soviet  orien- 
tation in  terms  both  of  communist  ideological  propaganda  and 
central  government  control.  Secondary  technical  schools  were  es- 
tablished along  the  same  lines.  In  1951  three  institutes  of  higher 
learning  were  founded:  the  Higher  Pedagogic  Institute,  the  Higher 
Poly  technical  Institute,  and  the  Higher  Agricultural  Institute,  all 
patterned  on  Soviet  models.  Most  textbooks,  especially  those  dealing 
with  scientific  and  technical  matters,  were  translations  of  Soviet 
materials.  Courses  for  teacher  preparation  were  established  in  which 
the  Russian  language,  Soviet  methods  of  pedagogy  and  psycholo- 
gy, and  Marxist-Leninist  dialectics  were  taught  by  Soviet  instruc- 
tors. A  team  of  Soviet  educators  laid  the  structural,  curricular,  and 
ideological  foundations  of  Enver  Hoxha  University  at  Tirane,  which 
was  established  in  1957. 

By  1960  the  system  of  elementary  and  secondary  education  had 
evolved  into  an  eleven-year  program  encompassing  schools  of  gener- 
al education  and  vocational  and  professional  institutes.  The  schools 
of  general  education  consisted  of  primary  grades  one  to  four,  in- 
termediate grades  five  to  seven,  and  secondary  grades  eight  to 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


eleven.  In  October  1960,  however,  as  Soviet- Albanian  tensions  were 
reaching  the  breaking  point,  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  issued 
a  resolution  calling  for  the  reorganization  of  the  whole  school  sys- 
tem. The  resolution's  real  aim  was  to  purge  the  schools  of  Soviet 
influence  and  rewrite  the  textbooks.  An  additional  year  was  ad- 
ded to  the  eleven-year  general  education  program,  and  the  whole 
school  system  was  integrated  more  closely  with  industry  in  order 
to  prepare  Albanian  youth  to  replace  the  Soviet  specialists,  should 
the  latter  be  withdrawn,  as  they  eventually  were  in  1961. 

A  subsequent  reform  divided  the  education  system  into  four 
general  categories:  preschool,  general  eight-year  program,  second- 
ary education,  and  higher  education.  The  compulsory  eight-year 
program  was  designed  to  provide  pupils  with  the  elements  of  ideo- 
logical, political,  moral,  aesthetic,  physical,  and  military  educa- 
tion. The  new  system  lowered  the  entrance  age  for  pupils  from  seven 
to  six,  and  no  longer  separated  primary  and  intermediate  schools. 

Secondary  education  began  with  grade  nine  (usually  at  age  four- 
teen), and  ended  with  grade  twelve.  Secondary  schools  offered  four- 
year  general  education  programs  or  four-year  vocational  and 
professional  programs,  including  industrial,  agricultural,  pedagogic, 
trade,  arts,  and  health  tracks,  among  others.  Some  programs  last- 
ed only  two  years. 

The  term  of  study  in  the  institutes  of  higher  education  lasted 
three  to  five  years,  and  tuition  was  also  free  at  this  level.  Provision 
was  made  to  expand  higher  education  by  increasing  the  number 
of  full-time  students,  setting  up  new  branches  in  places  where  there 
were  no  post-secondary  institutes,  and  organizing  specialized 
courses  in  which  those  who  had  completed  higher  education  would 
be  trained  to  become  highly  qualified  technical  and  scientific  cadres. 
All  full-time  graduate  students  had  to  serve  a  probationary  period  of 
nine  months  in  industrial  production  and  three  months  in  military 
training,  in  addition  to  the  prescribed  military  training  in  school. 

Adult  education  was  provided  in  the  same  sequence  as  full-time 
schooling  for  younger  students,  with  two  exceptions.  First,  the  eight- 
year  general  education  segment  was  noncompulsory  and  was  com- 
pressed into  a  six-year  program  that  allowed  for  completion  of  the 
first  four  grades  in  two  years.  Second,  those  who  wanted  to  pro- 
ceed to  higher  institutes  after  completing  secondary  school  had  to 
devote  one  year  to  preparatory  study  instead  of  engaging  in  produc- 
tion work,  as  full-time  students  did. 

Official  statistics  indicated  that  the  regime  made  considerable 
progress  in  education.  Illiteracy  had  been  virtually  eliminated  by 
the  late  1980s.  From  a  total  enrollment  of  fewer  than  60,000  stu- 
dents at  all  levels  in  1939,  the  number  of  people  in  school  had  grown 


93 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

to  more  than  750,000  by  1987;  also,  there  were  more  than  40,000 
teachers  in  Albania.  About  47  percent  of  all  students  were  female. 
The  proportion  of  eighth- grade  graduates  who  continued  with  some 
type  of  secondary  education  increased  from  39  percent  in  1980  to 
73  percent  in  1990,  with  no  village  reporting  a  figure  lower  than 
56  percent. 

A  reorganization  plan  was  announced  in  1990  that  would  ex- 
tend the  compulsory  education  program  from  eight  to  ten  years. 
The  following  year,  however,  a  major  economic  and  political  crisis 
in  Albania,  and  the  ensuing  breakdown  of  public  order,  plunged 
the  school  system  into  chaos.  Widespread  vandalism  and  extreme 
shortages  of  textbooks  and  supplies  had  a  devastating  effect  on  school 
operations,  prompting  Italy  and  other  countries  to  provide  material 
assistance.  The  minister  of  education  reported  in  September  1991 
that  nearly  one-third  of  the  2,500  schools  below  the  university  level 
had  been  ransacked  and  fifteen  school  buildings  razed.  Many 
teachers  relocated  from  rural  to  urban  areas,  leaving  village  schools 
understaffed  and  swelling  the  ranks  of  the  unemployed  in  the  cities 
and  towns;  about  2,000  teachers  fled  the  country.  The  highly  struc- 
tured and  controlled  educational  environment  that  the  communist 
regime  had  painstakingly  cultivated  in  the  course  of  more  than  forty- 
six  years  was  abruptly  shattered. 

Health  and  Welfare 
Medical  Care  and  Nutrition 

The  government  credited  itself  with  a  revolutionary  transforma- 
tion of  Albanian  health  standards.  According  to  official  statistics, 
the  incidence  of  malaria  and  other  debilitating  diseases  that  affected 
large  segments  of  the  population  before  1950  had  been  greatly 
reduced  or  eliminated,  and  average  life  expectancy  had  increased 
about  twenty  years  by  1988  (see  Population,  this  chapter).  These 
successes  were  attributable  primarily  to  large-scale  inoculation  pro- 
grams, the  extermination  or  reduction  in  number  of  disease- 
spreading  pests,  and  a  general  expansion  of  health  services.  In  1987 
Albania  had  about  one  physician  or  dentist  per  577  inhabitants 
(compared  to  one  per  8,154  inhabitants  in  1950),  and  one  hospital 
bed  per  168  inhabitants  (compared  to  one  per  229  inhabitants  in 
1950).  All  medical  services  were  free.  However,  further  improve- 
ments in  health  care  were  obstructed  by  malnutrition,  unsanitary 
conditions,  and  a  rapidly  deteriorating  economy. 

Although  considerably  decreased,  the  infant  mortality  rate — 
fifty  deaths  per  1,000  live  births,  according  to  data  published  by 
the  United  States  government — was  still  much  higher  than  that 


94 


95 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

of  other  Balkan  states  in  1991.  Many  of  these  deaths  were  caused 
by  low  birth  weight.  Because  of  food  shortages  and  inadequate 
prenatal  care,  the  proportion  of  premature  births  increased  from 
7  to  1 1  percent  between  1987  and  early  1992.  Hospitals  lacked  es- 
sential medicines  and  equipment;  the  University  of  Tirane  Hospital, 
considered  the  best  in  the  country,  had  only  one  incubator. 

The  United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF)  reported  that 
fifty-seven  out  of  every  1 ,000  Albanian  mothers  died  during  preg- 
nancy or  childbirth — roughly  ten  times  the  average  rate  in  Western 
Europe.  Contraceptives  could  not  be  obtained.  Abortions,  which 
were  legalized  in  the  summer  of  1991,  were  performed  with  poor- 
ly sterilized  instruments,  as  were  Caesarean  sections.  Patients  at 
Tirane 's  maternity  clinic  sometimes  had  to  share  beds  or  bring  their 
own  food. 

The  food  supply — a  perennial  problem  because  of  poor  soil,  oc- 
casional drought,  primitive  methods  of  cultivation,  and  a  lack  of 
readily  accessible  resources — did  not  keep  pace  with  population 
growth  under  communist  rule.  The  typical  diet  lacked  protein  and 
other  vital  elements.  Families,  regardless  of  size,  received  meager 
rations  of  meat,  usually  three  to  four  kilograms  per  month.  Eggs, 
cheese,  sugar,  and  coffee  also  were  rationed.  Nonrationed  goods, 
such  as  milk,  green  vegetables,  and  fruit,  were  often  difficult  to 
come  by,  and  emigres  reported  having  to  stand  in  line  many  hours 
to  purchase  them.  Farmers  relied  on  small  private  plots  of  land 
to  supplement  their  provisions. 

The  economic  disintegration  of  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s, 
hastened  by  a  severe  drought  in  the  summer  of  1990,  a  general 
strike  the  following  year,  and  widespread  food  riots,  compelled  the 
country  to  become  totally  dependent  on  foreign  food  aid.  Jolted 
by  a  flood  of  Albanian  refugees,  Italy  delivered  83,000  tons  of  food 
to  its  eastern  neighbor  between  September  1991  and  January  1992. 
Additional  emergency  aid  was  received  from  Germany,  Switzer- 
land, the  United  States,  and  other  countries,  as  well  as  from  inter- 
national relief  agencies. 

Housing 

Official  sources  indicated  that,  between  1945  and  1985,  nearly 
165,000  apartments  were  built  by  the  state  and  more  than  232,000 
houses  were  constructed  by  individuals  with  state  assistance. 
Nevertheless,  living  quarters  became  increasingly  overcrowded  be- 
cause of  rapid  population  growth.  Families  of  four  or  more  per- 
sons often  lived  in  a  single  room.  Newlyweds  seeking  a  private  home 
faced  waiting  periods  of  up  to  ten  years.  War  and  natural  catas- 
trophes added  to  the  burden.  During  World  War  II,  some  35,000 


96 


97 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

dwellings  had  been  destroyed.  About  10,000  homes  were  damaged 
or  destroyed  by  earthquakes  in  1967  and  1969,  and  a  powerful 
earthquake  in  1979  demolished  about  18,000  buildings  and  left 
100,000  people  homeless. 

Rural  houses  were  small,  sparsely  furnished,  and  simply  con- 
structed of  natural  rock  or  stone.  Most  had  one  or  two  rooms,  and 
a  hearth  or  sometimes  a  stove  for  heating  and  cooking.  Urban 
houses  and  apartments  usually  were  small;  many  lacked  central 
heating.  Kitchens  and  toilet  facilities  in  apartments  had  to  be  shared 
by  three  or  four  families. 

Social  Insurance 

The  noncontributory  social  insurance  program,  administered  by 
state  organizations,  included  retirement  pensions  and  compensa- 
tion for  disability  and  maternity  leave.  Funds  for  social  insurance 
payments  came  from  the  state  budget.  Total  expenditures  increased 
from  13  million  leks  (for  value  of  the  lek — see  Glossary)  in  1950 
to  almost  1.8  billion  leks  in  1987,  according  to  official  statistics. 

The  government  had  granted  retirement  benefits  to  workers,  in- 
cluding employees  of  state  farms,  since  the  late  1940s.  Depending 
on  job  type,  full  retirement  pensions  (70  percent  of  an  individu- 
al's average  monthly  earnings  during  any  three  consecutive  years 
within  the  last  ten  years  worked)  were  awarded  to  male  workers 
between  the  ages  of  fifty  and  sixty  after  twenty  to  twenty-five  years 
of  work,  and  to  female  workers  between  the  ages  of  forty-five  and 
fifty-five  after  fifteen  to  twenty  years  of  work.  Pensions  ranged  from 
L350  to  L700  (US$52  to  US$104)  monthly.  Workers  who  reached 
retirement  age  but  had  worked  less  than  the  number  of  years  re- 
quired to  receive  full  pension  payments  were  eligible  for  partial 
pensions,  computed  on  the  basis  of  time  in  service.  After  the  full 
collectivization  of  agriculture  in  1972,  social  insurance  benefits  were 
extended  to  the  peasants.  Retirement  pensions  were  granted  to  male 
peasants  at  the  age  of  sixty-five,  after  twenty-five  years  of  work, 
and  to  female  peasants  at  the  age  of  fifty-five,  after  twenty  years 
of  work. 

Disability  payments  were  made  at  the  rate  of  85  percent  of  aver- 
age earnings  for  the  last  month  worked;  persons  with  less  than  ten 
years'  service  received  70  percent;  temporary  or  seasonal  workers 
received  less.  When  a  disability  was  directiy  work-related,  com- 
pensation was  granted  at  the  rate  of  95  percent  for  most  trades  and 
100  percent  for  miners. 

Pregnant  women  were  entitled  to  a  total  of  six  months'  leave. 
During  that  period,  they  received  75  to  95  percent  of  their  regular 
earnings,  depending  on  length  of  service,  and  were  permitted  to 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


work  reduced  hours  after  returning  to  their  jobs.  Subsidized  day- 
care facilities  were  provided  for  children  six  months  of  age  or  older. 
A  woman  could  remain  at  home  for  limited  periods  to  care  for  a 
sick  child  and  collect  60  percent  of  her  average  pay.  If  it  was  con- 
sidered medically  necessary  for  a  mother  to  stay  in  the  hospital  with 
her  sick  child,  she  received  60  percent  of  her  average  pay  during 
the  entire  hospital  stay. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  education  and  health  care  systems,  in- 
deed the  structure  of  Albanian  society,  continued  to  deteriorate. 
Albanians  began  looking  toward  democratic  opposition  groups  to 
replace  their  communist  rulers  and  to  lead  the  country  toward  a 
modern,  civil  society. 

*     *  * 

Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick,  by  Elez  Biberaj ,  contains  a  good  over- 
view of  contemporary  Albanian  society.  A  broad  range  of  statisti- 
cal data  on  past  and  present  social  structure  may  be  found  in  the 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  and  oc- 
casionally also  in  articles  published  by  the  English-language  month- 
lies New  Albania  and  Albania  Today.  Albania's  diverse  cultural  history 
is  explored  in  Stavro  Skendi's  Balkan  Cultural  Studies.  Conscience  and 
Captivity:  Religion  in  Eastern  Europe,  by  Janice  A.  Broun,  provides 
valuable  insights  into  the  country's  religious  heritage  and  describes 
the  communist  regime's  campaign  against  religion.  Human  rights 
violations  are  meticulously  documented  by  the  Minnesota  Law- 
yers International  Human  Rights  Committee  in  its  1990  report, 
Human  Rights  in  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania.  For  a  com- 
prehensive analysis  of  Albania's  postwar  rural  transformation, 
Orjan  Sjoberg's  Rural  Change  and  Development  in  Albania  is  recom- 
mended. The  RFE/RL  Research  Report  (formerly  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty's  Report  on  Eastern  Europe)  regularly  reviews 
recent  sociopolitical  and  socioeconomic  developments  in  Albania 
and  neighboring  Kosovo.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


99 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Albanian  women  working  at  computer  terminals 


EUROPE'S  POOREST  NATION  by  every  economic  measure, 
Albania  has  been  isolated  and  underdeveloped  for  centuries. 
Economists  estimated  the  gross  domestic  product  per  capita  at  about 
US$450  in  1990,  a  figure  that  placed  Albania  below  Lesotho  and 
above  Sri  Lanka  as  the  world's  thirty-second  least  developed  coun- 
try. Ironically,  Albania  possesses  significant  fossil  fuel  and  mineral 
deposits,  including  oil  and  chromite,  as  well  as  a  topography  and 
annual  rainfall  suitable  for  generating  hydroelectric  power.  Large- 
scale  drainage  projects  begun  after  World  War  II  turned  marshes 
into  fertile  fields  in  Albania's  lowlands,  and  the  country's  Mediter- 
ranean climate  offers  ideal  conditions  for  cultivating  fruits  and 
vegetables.  But  Europe's  highest  birth  rate  and  a  mismanaged  post- 
war industrial  expansion,  which  failed  to  create  enough  produc- 
tive jobs  to  absorb  the  flood  of  people  entering  the  work  force,  left 
Albania  with  an  abundance  of  literate  but  unemployed  and  un- 
skilled workers.  At  the  start  of  the  1990s,  thousands  of  desperate 
Albanians  fled  abroad  seeking  jobs  because  of  the  wretched  stan- 
dard of  living  and  limited  economic  opportunity  at  home. 

Albania's  communist  economic  system,  with  its  strict  central  con- 
trols, egalitarian  incentive  system,  and  bias  toward  heavy  indus- 
try, collapsed  in  the  early  1990s,  idling  almost  all  of  the  country's 
production  lines.  In  early  1992,  the  government  was  piecing 
together  a  new,  market-based  economic  mechanism.  The  People's 
Assembly  passed  many  new  laws  on  privatization  of  state  property 
and  protection  of  free  enterprise,  private  property,  and  foreign  in- 
vestments, and  lawyers  drafted  new  civil  and  commercial  codes, 
banking  and  tax  laws,  and  labor,  antitrust,  and  social  security  regu- 
lations. The  structure  of  Albania's  productive  capacity  was  clear- 
ly going  to  change  radically  as  the  government  broke  up  collective 
farms  and  privatized  state  lands  and  enterprises  and  as  managers 
adjusted  to  free-market  conditions.  Nevertheless,  agriculture  was 
certain  to  remain  the  economy's  cornerstone  for  the  foreseeable 
future.  The  farm  sector  produced  over  30  percent  of  Albania's  net 
material  product  (see  Glossary)  and  employed  over  50  percent  of 
the  work  force  before  the  centrally  planned  economy  buckled. 
However,  farm  output  failed  to  keep  pace  with  the  demands  of  Al- 
bania's burgeoning  population,  and  the  entire  sociopolitical  sys- 
tem began  to  crumble  when  the  farm  sector  could  no  longer  supply 
adequate  food  to  urban  areas  or  raw  materials  to  factories. 


103 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  orthodox  Stalinists  of  the  ruling  Albanian  Party  of  Labor 
(APL)  worshiped  heavy  industry  and  for  decades  offered  it  invest- 
ment monies,  which  usually  flowed  from  foreign  coffers.  That  in- 
vestment brought  expansion  and  diversification  to  the  country's 
entire  industrial  sector,  but  production  was  constrained  by  the  mis- 
management and  inefficiency  that  characterize  communist  systems. 
Before  the  communist  economy  imploded  in  1990,  industry  account- 
ed for  over  40  percent  of  Albania's  net  material  product  and  em- 
ployed about  25  percent  of  the  nation's  work  force.  The  industrial 
sector's  most  important  branches  were  petroleum  production, 
electric-power  generation,  mining,  engineering,  and  light  indus- 
try. The  transportation  and  trade  sectors  had  registered  improve- 
ments in  absolute  terms  over  prewar  levels  of  development,  but 
both  lagged  behind  European  standards. 

Starting  in  the  1920s,  Italy,  Yugoslavia,  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
China  in  turn  supported  the  Albanian  economy  before  war  or  politi- 
cal spats  prompted  Tirane  to  break  off  each  relationship.  Enver 
Hoxha,  first  secretary  of  the  APL,  launched  a  policy  of  strict  au- 
tarky when  the  country's  last  foreign  patron,  China,  stopped  aid 
infusions  in  1978.  Rapid  population  growth  and  lagging  farm  and 
industrial  output,  however,  soon  brought  hunger  and  economic 
chaos.  Tirane  delayed  significant  economic  reform  until  popular 
discontent  threatened  to  explode  into  revolution.  By  1991,  a  chain 
reaction  of  supply  shortfalls  had  paralyzed  the  entire  economy,  and 
Albania  cried  out  for  humanitarian  aid,  this  time  from  the  West. 
Albania's  opening  to  the  world  had  a  major  impact  on  the  free- 
dom of  enterprises  and  people  to  participate  in  foreign  trade,  but 
the  country's  escalating  foreign  debt  and  currency  problems  ren- 
dered it  incapable  of  importing  badly  needed  materials  and 
equipment. 

The  totality  of  the  collapse  of  Albania's  communist  economic 
system  made  introducing  free-market  reforms  more  difficult,  in  the 
view  of  some  Western  authorities,  than  in  any  other  East  European 
country.  So  critical  was  the  need  for  heating  fuel  in  the  winter  of 
1991-92  that  people  stripped  wood  from  park  benches,  and  the 
nurses  at  an  orphanage  in  Shkoder  locked  up  branches  and  twigs 
to  keep  them  from  thieves.  Mobs  stormed  warehouses,  factories, 
bakeries,  flour  mills,  shops,  and  hotels,  taking  everything  they  could 
carry  and  destroying  much  of  what  they  could  not.  Italian  soldiers 
escorting  food  convoys  found  that  they  had  to  guard  their  own  gar- 
bage trucks  after  armed  gangs  descended  on  the  vehicles  to  pick 
through  their  contents.  Thieves  stole  medicine,  medical  equipment, 
and  even  ambulances  from  hospitals.  Fires  in  storehouses  and  fac- 
tories burned  out  of  control  because  fire  fighters  had  no  equipment 


104 


The  Economy 


in  good  repair.  Opposition  political  leaders  blamed  the  communist 
APL  for  instigating  unrest  in  hopes  of  demonstrating  to  the  im- 
pressionable that  the  isolation  and  apparent  order  of  the  old  re- 
gime were  better  than  the  present  chaos  and  the  ways  of  the  wider 
world. 

Despite  Albania's  economic  dysfunction  and  backwardness, 
Western  economists  predicted  that  the  country  stood  a  good  chance 
of  prospering  if  its  government  could  restore  order  and  take  ad- 
vantage of  the  country's  fertile  lands,  relatively  rich  mineral  re- 
sources, favorable  location,  potential  for  tourism,  and  generally 
literate  work  force. 

Albania's  communist  regime  published  few  economic  statistics, 
and  Western  scholars  found  that  the  sparse  data  made  available 
were  often  neither  accurate  nor  consistent.  No  statistical  yearbook 
was  issued  for  fourteen  years  after  1974,  and  data  on  performance 
of  the  oil  industry  were  treated  as  a  state  secret  after  production 
began  falling  in  the  1970s.  Observers  specializing  in  the  Albanian 
economy  have  posited  that  the  communist  government  released  data 
only  when  performance  results  were  positive  and  that  data  on  ag- 
gregate economic  growth  were  not  published  when  they  were  close 
to  or  below  the  population  growth  rate. 

Economic  Policy  and  Performance 

Despite  significant  progress  in  the  twentieth  century,  Albania 
still  lagged  far  behind  the  other  European  nations  economically. 
A  unified  economy  did  not  exist  before  the  early  1920s,  and  the 
succession  of  foreign  patrons  had  punctuated  the  country's  erratic 
economic  development  since  then.  Heavy-handed  domination  by 
fascist  Italy  between  1925  and  1943  brought  Albania  scant  eco- 
nomic progress.  During  its  postwar  rule  of  forty-six  years,  the  Al- 
banian government  turned  first  to  Yugoslavia,  then  to  the  Soviet 
Union,  and  then  to  China  for  assistance  in  imposing  a  Stalinist 
economic  system.  Enver  Hoxha  and  his  proteges  used  economic 
policy  primarily  to  maintain  political  power  and  only  secondarily 
to  stimulate  growth.  They  insisted  on  rigid  centralization  and  forced 
industrialization  despite  Albania's  small  size  and  lack  of  skilled  work- 
ers, able  administrators,  and  farmers  capable  of  producing  key  raw 
materials  and  enough  grain  to  feed  the  population.  Albania's  leaders 
prescribed  autarky  when  China  shut  off  aid  in  1978,  but  galloping 
population  growth  and  lagging  farm  output  rendered  the  policy 
and  the  regime  bankrupt.  Tirane  delayed  radical  economic  reform 
until  public  discontent  spilled  onto  the  streets.  By  1991,  supply 
shortfalls  had  paralyzed  the  entire  system. 


105 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  Precommunist  Albanian  Economy 

The  Albanians  faced  daunting  developmental  challenges  when 
they  declared  independence  in  1912  after  some  500  years  as  part 
of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Their  medieval,  patriarchal  social  struc- 
ture necessarily  stunted  the  growth  of  anything  beyond  the  most 
rudimentary  economic  relationships.  Subsistence  and  feudal  agricul- 
ture so  dominated  Albania's  economy  in  the  state's  early  years  that 
even  trained  carpenters,  joiners,  and  blacksmiths  were  in  short  sup- 
ply. Each  family  generally  produced  its  own  bread  and  meat  as 
well  as  flax,  wool,  and  leather.  Many  peasants  used  wooden  plows 
and  knew  little  about  manures,  artificial  fertilizers,  or  crop  rota- 
tion; most  had  no  incentive  to  produce  cash  crops  because  they 
had  no  way  to  transport  their  output  to  a  reliable  market.  A  com- 
plete absence  of  good  roads  made  interregional  commerce  almost 
impossible.  The  trip  from  Tirane  to  Vlore,  for  example,  involved 
a  sea  journey;  and  although  Shkoder's  tradesmen  exported  skins 
by  boat  to  Italy,  their  compatriots  in  Gjirokaster  had  to  cross  the 
Strait  of  Otranto  to  buy  them  from  the  Italians  (see  fig.  1).  There 
were  also  no  roads  across  the  Greek  or  Yugoslav  borders  capable 
of  handling  commercial  traffic. 

Albania's  leaders  lacked  accurate  data  on  the  country's  agricul- 
tural output,  as  well  as  on  the  extent  and  characteristics  of  its  farm- 
land, livestock  herds,  and  oil  and  mineral  deposits. 

President  Ahmed  Zogu  (later  king  Zog)  sought  Italian  protec- 
tion for  Albania  in  1925,  entering  into  economic  agreements  that 
Italy  used  to  exploit  Albania's  oil,  chromite,  copper,  and  iron-ore 
reserves.  Albania  remained  backward,  however.  In  the  late  1920s, 
agriculture  contributed  over  90  percent  of  the  national  income 
although  only  8  percent  of  the  country's  land  area  was  under  cul- 
tivation and  the  entire  farm  sector  could  boast  only  thirty-two  trac- 
tors (see  table  3,  Appendix).  Even  in  1938,  Albania's  industrial 
output  amounted  to  less  than  4  percent  of  national  income,  and 
annual  per  capita  industrial  production  totaled  about  US$8. 
However,  Italy  did  carry  out  extensive  geological  exploration,  gaug- 
ing for  the  first  time  the  extent  of  Albania's  mineral  wealth.  The 
Italians  also  improved  Albania's  infrastructure,  modernizing  Ti- 
rane and  constructing  1 ,500  kilometers  of  roads  and  several  hundred 
bridges  as  well  as  Durres  harbor.  World  War  II  dealt  Albania's 
economy  severe  setbacks  except  in  the  mining  sector,  where  the 
mineral-hungry  Italian  and  German  occupying  forces  actually  add- 
ed to  productive  capacity.  Durres  harbor  and  many  of  the  coun- 
try's roads  and  bridges,  however,  sustained  damage  during  the  war. 


106 


The  Economy 


Imposition  of  the  Stalinist  System 

As  World  War  II  drew  to  a  close,  Albania's  provisional  govern- 
ment, run  by  the  Albanian  Communist  Party,  predecessor  of  the 
APL  and  a  communist-dominated  front  organization,  wasted  lit- 
tle time  in  taking  full  control  of  the  economy.  In  December  1944, 
shortly  after  coming  to  power,  the  regime  adopted  new  laws  provid- 
ing for  strict  state  regulation  of  all  industrial  and  commercial  com- 
panies as  well  as  foreign  and  domestic  commercial  relations.  A 
"war-profits  tax"  and  laws  allowing  the  seizure  of  property  be- 
longing to  anyone  labeled  an  "enemy  of  the  people"  weakened 
the  country's  minuscule  middle  class.  In  early  1945,  the  Albanian 
authorities  confiscated  Italian-  and  German-owned  assets,  revoked 
all  foreign  economic  concessions,  nationalized  all  public  utilities 
and  means  of  transportation,  and  created  a  network  of  government- 
sponsored  consumer  cooperatives.  Heedless  of  Albania's  needs  and 
comparative  advantages,  the  party  leaders  followed  Stalinism's  dic- 
tates and  pushed  the  development  of  heavy  industry  over  agricul- 
ture and  light  industry. 

The  regime  wooed  the  peasantry  by  curbing  the  power  of  the 
large  landowners  and  granting  concessions  to  peasants  and 
sharecroppers.  In  January  1945,  the  new  leaders  canceled  outstand- 
ing agricultural  debts,  slashed  land-use  charges  by  75  percent,  na- 
tionalized water  resources,  and  offered  peasants  an  opportunity  to 
purchase  irrigation  water  from  the  state  at  nominal  fees.  The  Agrar- 
ian Reform  Law  of  August  1945  destroyed  what  remained  of  the 
economic  might  of  central  and  southern  Albania's  large  landown- 
ers, replacing  their  sprawling  estates  with  about  70,000  small  farms. 
In  effect,  the  government  nationalized  all  forests  and  pasture  lands 
and  expropriated  without  compensation  land  belonging  to  individu- 
als who  had  nonfarm  sources  of  income.  The  land  law  allowed  farm- 
ers to  keep  up  to  forty  hectares  if  they  earned  their  income 
exclusively  from  farming  and  worked  the  land  with  machinery.  The 
landholdings  of  religious  institutions  and  farmers  without  machinery 
were  limited  to  twenty  hectares.  Landless  peasants  and  people  who 
owned  less  than  five  hectares  of  property  received  up  to  five  hect- 
ares per  family  and  additional  hectarage  for  married  sons  who  were 
household  members.  In  some  cases,  the  law  required  the  new  land- 
owners to  make  nominal  compensation  to  the  former  owners. 

Another  agricultural  reform  law  enacted  in  1946  limited  rural 
property  holdings  to  five  hectares  of  arable  land.  In  April  of  that 
year,  military  tribunals  began  giving  prison  sentences  to  peasants 
caught  hoarding  grain.  The  state  also  nationalized  farm  tools  and 
draft  animals,  banned  land  sales  and  transfers,  and  required 


107 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


peasants  to  obtain  government  permission  to  slaughter  animals. 
In  June  the  authorities  ordered  peasants  to  deliver  relatively  high 
quotas  of  grain  crops  to  state  procurement  centers  at  low,  official- 
ly set  prices.  Using  carrot-and-stick  techniques,  the  government 
attempted  to  persuade  peasants  to  join  collective  farms.  Despite 
the  fact  that  collective-farm  members  paid  lower  taxes  and  had 
smaller  production  quotas,  the  campaign  succeeded  in  convincing 
only  2,428  peasant  families  to  join  collective  farms  by  1948.  The 
government  admitted  that  the  campaign  had  failed.  Poor  yields, 
purges,  and  coercion  characterized  the  agricultural  sector  for  the 
next  three  years,  and  grain  shortages  became  a  chronic  problem. 

By  early  1947,  the  government  had  in  place  much  of  the  institu- 
tional framework  required  for  a  Stalinist  economic  system,  nation- 
alizing industries  and  seizing  control  of  foreign  trade  and  most 
domestic  commerce.  A  currency  reform  delivered  another  blow  to 
the  embatded  middle  class.  In  April  1947,  the  Economic  Planning 
Commission  drew  up  the  country's  first  economic  plan,  a  nine- 
month  set  of  selected  production  targets  for  the  mining,  manufac- 
turing, and  agricultural  sectors  denominated  in  terms  of  physical 
output  rather  than  money.  Albanian  enterprises  also  began  in- 
troducing the  Soviet  accounting  system,  and  party  zealots  and 
teachers  set  about  indoctrinating  the  population  with  the  econom- 
ic catechism  of  Marxism-Leninism. 

Dependence  on  Yugoslavia,  1945-48 

After  World  War  II,  just  as  before,  Albania's  economy  relied 
heavily  on  foreign  assistance.  The  United  Nations  Relief  and  Re- 
habilitation Administration  granted  Albania  US$26.3  million  in 
aid  during  1945  and  1946,  including  large  amounts  of  seed  and 
enough  grain  to  feed  a  third  of  the  population  in  1945;  the  United 
States  supplied  US$20.4  million  of  the  United  Nations  relief.  In 
July  1946,  Albania  and  Yugoslavia  signed  a  treaty  of  friendship 
and  cooperation,  which  provided  for  establishment  of  an  agency 
that  would  coordinate  the  two  countries'  economic  plans.  The  agree- 
ment also  called  for  the  creation  of  a  customs  union  and  the  stan- 
dardization of  the  Albanian  and  Yugoslav  monetary  and  pricing 
systems.  A  series  of  technical  and  economic  agreements  soon  fol- 
lowed. In  November,  Tirane  and  Belgrade  signed  an  economic 
cooperation  accord  and  an  agreement  on  the  creation  of  jointly 
owned  companies.  At  least  on  paper,  these  documents  transformed 
Albania  into  a  Yugoslav  satellite;  but  their  implementation  quickly 
ran  into  snags. 

In  early  1947,  Tirane  began  voicing  serious  objections  to  the 
economic  arrangements  with  Belgrade,  taking  exception  to  the  way 


108 


The  Economy 


the  Yugoslavs  weighed  Albanian  investment  in  the  jointly  owned 
companies  and  calculated  the  value  of  Albanian  exports  of  raw 
material  to  Yugoslavia.  The  Albanians  also  charged  that  Yugosla- 
via's shipping  enterprise  was  working  to  usurp  control  of  their  coun- 
try's foreign  trade.  Tirane  sought  investment  funds  to  develop  light 
industries  and  an  oil  refinery;  Belgrade  wanted  the  Albanians  to 
concentrate  on  agriculture  and  the  extraction  of  raw  materials. 
Despite  its  objections  to  the  economic  relationship  with  Yugosla- 
via, in  early  1948  Tirane  launched  a  one-year  economic  plan 
designed  to  bring  Albania's  economy  into  step  with  Yugoslavia's. 
But  Albania  abruptly  cut  economic  links  with  its  neighbor  after 
the  Soviet  Union  expelled  Yugoslavia  from  the  Cominform  (see 
Glossary)  in  June. 

Dependence  on  the  Soviet  Union,  1948-60 

After  breaking  with  Yugoslavia,  Albania  turned  toward  the  Soviet 
Union,  forming  a  twelve-year  relationship.  In  September  1948, 
Moscow  stepped  in  to  compensate  for  Albania's  loss  of  Yugoslav 
aid,  and  Albania's  factories  quickly  became  dependent  on  Soviet 
technology.  Anxious  to  pay  tribute  to  Joseph  Stalin  personally,  the 
authorities  in  Tirane  implemented  new  elements  of  the  Stalinist 
economic  system.  The  regime  introduced  a  Soviet-style  three-step 
process  for  drawing  up  the  national  economic  plan  and  adopted 
basic  elements  of  the  Soviet  fiscal  system,  under  which  enterprises 
contributed  to  the  state  treasury  from  their  residual  income  and 
retained  only  a  share  of  earnings  for  authorized  self-financed  in- 
vestments and  other  purposes.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  thus  won 
the  authority  to  set  each  enterprise's  investment  policy  and  regu- 
late its  current  activity  through  the  state  bank. 

The  First  Five-Year  Plan  (1951-55)  emphasized  mining  and 
electric-power  production  as  well  as  transportation  improvements. 
The  plan  called  for  an  increase  in  industrial  production  at  an  aver- 
age annual  rate  of  27.7  percent,  including  an  increase  of  26.5  per- 
cent in  consumer-goods  output  and  a  31 -percent  rise  in  production 
of  goods  consumed  by  producers.  Shortfalls  in  agricultural  produc- 
tion during  the  first  year  doomed  the  entire  plan.  The  farm  sector 
failed  to  meet  output  targets  for  raw  materials,  leaving  the  indus- 
trial sector  unable  to  meet  targets  for  consumer  goods.  Industrial 
productivity  also  lagged  because  recently  urbanized  peasants  had 
not  had  enough  time  to  learn  to  operate  factory  equipment.  The 
regime  then  realigned  planning  priorities  in  favor  of  agriculture 
and  consumer- goods  production.  Over  the  plan  period,  annual  in- 
dustrial output  reportedly  increased  at  an  average  of  22.8  percent; 
consumer-goods  output  rose  24.3  percent;  and  producer- goods 


109 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

output  rose  20.7  percent.  The  Albanian  economy's  backwardness 
dashed  the  leadership's  hopes  of  rapidly  developing  heavy  indus- 
tries, specifically  the  mineral-processing  and  capital-goods  manufac- 
turing branches,  at  the  expense  of  the  agricultural  sector.  Although 
their  efforts  brought  partial  success — the  ratio  between  the  values 
of  agricultural  and  industrial  production  shifted  from  82: 18  in  1938 
to  40:60  in  1953 — 70  percent  of  Albania's  work  force  continued 
to  till  the  soil. 

Having  relatively  easy  access  to  capital  because  of  generous  Soviet 
aid,  the  regime  redoubled  its  industrialization  drive  and  tightened 
control  of  the  agriculture  sector.  Albania  conducted  all  its  foreign 
commerce  with  the  other  communist  nations  between  1949  and  1951 
and  over  half  its  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  itself.  The  Soviet 
Union  and  its  satellites  wrote  long-term  "loans"  to  cover  short- 
falls in  Albania's  balance  of  payments.  Soviet  and  other  East  Eu- 
ropean aid  at  first  dovetailed  with  the  Albanian  leadership's  am- 
bition to  industrialize  the  country.  Tirane 's  Second  Five- Year  Plan 
(1956-60)  called  for  an  annual  increase  of  14  percent  in  industrial 
production.  Good  results  in  1956  and  1957  prompted  the  authori- 
ties to  revise  plan  targets  upward.  Although  the  new  goals  went 
unattained,  industrial  production  rose  an  average  of  about  17  per- 
cent annually  over  the  five-year  period.  In  1955  private  farms  still 
produced  about  87  percent  of  Albania's  agricultural  output,  and 
the  government  reemphasized  its  farm  collectivization  drive.  By 
1960,  however,  the  proportion  of  output  from  collective  and  state 
farms  was  unchanged.  The  farm  sector  continued  to  suffer  from 
low  productivity  and  poor  worker  motivation.  Soviet  aid  was  re- 
quired, and  wheat  imports  were  depended  on  to  meet  as  much  as 
48  percent  of  Albanian  need. 

Considering  Enver  Hoxha's  obsession  with  heavy  industry  mis- 
guided, the  new  Soviet  leadership  balked  at  the  idea  of  investing 
in  large-scale  industrial  projects  in  Albania  after  Stalin's  death  in 
1953.  The  Soviet  Union  and  other  communist  countries  had  provid- 
ed considerable  investment  and  equipment  to  Tirane  from  1948. 
Especially  after  1955,  however,  this  aid  was  designed  primarily 
to  integrate  Albania's  economy  into  a  "division  of  labor"  estab- 
lished by  the  Soviet-led  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(Comecon — see  Glossary).  Albania's  allotted  role  demanded  that 
it  foster  agricultural  growth  and  increase  the  extraction  of  raw 
materials  and  the  production  of  consumer  goods.  The  leadership 
in  Tirane  considered  Moscow's  advice  to  concentrate  on  produc- 
tion of  cash  crops  and  raw  materials  a  disparaging  attempt  to 
relegate  Albania  to  the  status  of  a  Soviet  colony  in  perpetuity.  When 
Tirane  began  to  tilt  toward  China,  Moscow  and  its  satellites  offered 


110 


The  Economy 


incentives  to  persuade  Hoxha  to  remain  in  the  Comecon  fold.  The 
disagreement  over  Albania's  development  policy  soon  became  en- 
tangled in  the  animosities  between  the  Soviet  Union  and  China. 
In  1959  the  two  communist  giants  competing  for  Albania's  hand 
poured  capital  into  the  tiny  Balkan  country  so  rapidly  that  it  could 
not  be  absorbed.  China  extended  Albania  a  US$13.8  million  loan, 
Moscow  followed  with  new  credits  totaling  US$83.8  million,  and 
other  East  European  countries  contributed  another  US$35  million. 

Dependence  on  China,  1961-78 

The  Albanian  leadership's  fixation  on  heavy  industry  contributed 
significantly  to  its  decision  to  break  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Enver 
Hoxha  gambled  that  China  not  only  would  be  less  likely  than  the 
Soviet  Union  to  threaten  his  ascendancy  but  also  would  be  more 
likely  to  provide  investment  money  and  equipment  for  his  pet 
industrial  projects.  Albania's  Third  Five-Year  Plan  (1961-65) 
amounted  to  outright  defiance  of  Soviet  advice  to  concentrate  main- 
ly on  agriculture.  The  plan  allocated  industry  54  percent  of  all  in- 
vestment and  called  for  a  52-percent  rise  in  overall  industrial 
production,  including  increases  of  54  percent  and  50  percent  in 
the  output  of  producer  and  consumer  goods,  respectively.  Moscow 
responded  by  canceling  credits.  The  Albanian  leaders  foresaw  that 
a  cut  in  Soviet  investment  and  aid  would  disrupt  their  economy 
but  calculated  that  maintaining  power  and  continuing  industriali- 
zation would  outweigh  the  failure  of  one  five-year  plan.  The  Soviet 
aid  stoppage  brought  Albania's  foreign  trade  to  a  near  halt  and 
delayed  completion  of  major  construction  projects.  Spare-parts 
shortages  led  to  a  12.5-percent  decline  in  labor  productivity  be- 
tween 1960  and  1963.  China  compensated  Albania  for  the  loss  of 
Soviet  credits  and  supplied  about  90  percent  of  the  spare  parts, 
foodstuffs,  and  other  goods  Moscow  had  promised.  The  Chinese, 
however,  proved  unable  to  deliver  promised  machinery  and  equip- 
ment on  time. 

In  1962  the  Albanian  government  introduced  an  austerity  pro- 
gram to  keep  the  country's  sputtering  economy  from  stalling  en- 
tirely. Official  public  appeals  to  cut  costs  and  conserve  resources 
and  equipment  netted  a  claimed  6  percent  savings.  The  govern- 
ment also  initiated  a  campaign  of  "popular  consultation,"  asking 
individuals  to  submit  suggestions  for  improving  self-sufficiency. 
Years  of  state  terror  and  still-rigid  central  control,  however,  had 
undermined  the  Albanians'  willingness  to  assume  personal  respon- 
sibility. Party  hard-liners,  fearing  they  would  lose  their  positions 
to  a  younger  generation  of  more  technically  sophisticated  managers, 
sabotaged  cost-cutting  measures. 


Ill 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


The  government  launched  a  program  to  increase  the  amount 
and  quality  of  arable  land  by  terracing  hillsides  and  draining 
swamps.  A  new  phase  of  collectivization  was  initiated.  However, 
agricultural  output  grew  only  22  percent  over  the  entire  five  years 
instead  of  the  planned  72  percent.  Overall  industrial  production 
grew  a  mere  14  percent  in  1964  and  1965. 

Fearful  of  a  potential  domestic  power  struggle  and  disappointed 
that  heavy  industry's  output  had  failed  to  increase  significantiy  over- 
all between  1950  and  1965,  the  Albanian  regime  adjusted  its 
Stalinist  economic  system  in  the  mid-1960s.  The  government  al- 
tered the  planning  mechanism  in  February  1966  by  allowing  for 
a  small  degree  of  worker  participation  in  decision  making  and  reduc- 
ing by  80  percent  the  number  of  indicators  in  the  national  eco- 
nomic plan.  The  leadership  also  decentralized  decision-making 
power  from  the  Council  of  Ministers  to  the  ministries  and  local 
people's  councils  and  included  a  slight  devolution  of  control  over 
enterprise  investment  funds.  The  system  was  specifically  designed, 
however,  to  ensure  that  resources  were  allocated  in  accordance  with 
a  central  plan.  At  no  time,  at  least  in  public,  did  Albania's  rulers 
entertain  the  notion — heretical  to  all  orthodox  Stalinists — that  eco- 
nomic decision  making  should  be  devolved  to  the  enterprises. 

In  March  1966,  an  "open  letter"  from  the  Albanian  Party  of 
Labor  to  the  Albanian  people  heralded  radical  changes  in  the 
egalitarian  job  allocation  and  wage  regime.  The  authorities  cut 
15,000  jobs  from  the  state  bureaucracy,  replaced  executives,  and 
shunted  managers  and  party  officials  into  the  countryside.  The 
government  then  eliminated  income  taxes  and  reduced  the  salar- 
ies of  highly  paid  workers.  Wages  varied  by  industry,  but  the  ra- 
tio between  the  lowest  and  highest  salaries  was  only  about  1:2.5. 
Reviving  a  scheme  originally  launched  in  1958,  the  government 
began  assigning  all  employees  to  perform  "productive"  physical 
labor.  People  engaged  in  "mental  work" — for  example,  intellec- 
tuals, teachers,  and  party  and  state  bureaucrats — were  required 
to  toil  in  the  fields  for  one  month  each  year.  Even  high-school  stu- 
dents took  part  in  "voluntary"  construction  and  agricultural  work. 
Only  the  party  elite  remained  unaffected  by  the  egalitarian  reforms. 

In  emulation  of  China's  Cultural  Revolution,  which  was  designed 
to  rekindle  the  revolutionary  fervor  of  the  masses,  Hoxha  prescribed 
a  regular  rotation  of  managers  to  prevent  "bureaucratic  stagna- 
tion," "bureaucratism,"  "intellectualism,"  "technocratism,"  and 
a  whole  neologistic  lexicon  of  other  "negative  tendencies."  The 
campaign,  called  the  Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution,  also 
prescribed  the  replacement  of  men  with  women  in  the  party  and 
state  administrations. 


112 


The  Economy 


The  government's  economic  adjustments  militated  against  effi- 
ciency. Workers,  who  were  given  a  voice  in  planning,  lobbied  for 
the  easiest  possible  production  targets  and  worked  to  overfulfill  them 
in  order  to  earn  bonuses.  But  because  one  year's  output  figures 
became  the  basis  for  the  next  year's  targets,  they  tried  to  limit  over- 
fulfillment  to  prevent  the  imposition  of  difficult  targets  in  the  next 
planning  period.  The  government's  campaign  to  send  office  work- 
ers out  to  the  fields,  mines,  and  factories  encountered  resistance. 
The  policies  of  guaranteed  full  employment  and  extensive  growth — 
expanding  productive  capacity  rather  than  squeezing  more  from 
existing  capacity — made  huge  numbers  of  workers  redundant.  The 
low  quality  and  quantity  of  consumer  goods  and  virtually  flat 
income-distribution  curve  dampened  incentive.  Workers  dealt  in 
pilfered  state  property  and  rested  at  their  official  jobs  in  order  to 
moonlight  illegally.  Although  the  government  had  herded  all  arti- 
sans into  cooperatives  by  1959,  many  craftsmen,  including  tailors, 
carpenters,  and  clothing  dealers,  earned  undeclared  income  through 
private  work.  Black-market  construction  gangs  even  performed 
work  at  factory  sites  and  collective  farms  for  directors  desperate 
to  meet  plan  targets. 

In  the  late  1960s,  thanks  mainly  to  massive  capital  inflows  from 
China,  the  Albanian  economy  expanded.  The  Fourth  Five- Year 
Plan  (1966-70)  called  for  an  increase  of  about  50  percent  in  over- 
all industrial  production,  with  producer- goods  production  increasing 
by  10.8  percent  annually  and  consumer-goods  output  rising  6.2 
percent.  Most  sectors  exceeded  plan  targets.  Heavy  industry's  share 
of  overall  industrial  production  rose  from  26  percent  in  1965  to 
38.5  percent  in  1970,  the  largest  increase  registered  in  any  five- 
year  period  in  Albania's  history  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  In  1967 
the  government  launched  a  "scientific  and  technical  revolution" 
aimed  at  improving  self-sufficiency.  For  the  first  time,  the  Albani- 
an Party  of  Labor  made  a  serious  attempt  to  take  into  account 
Albania's  natural  resources  and  other  competitive  advantages  while 
planning  industrial  development.  Government  officials  examined 
blueprints  for  coal-fired  and  hydroelectric  power  plants  as  well 
as  plans  for  expanding  the  chemical  and  engineering  industries. 
Despite  chronic  worker  absenteeism,  the  engineering  sector  per- 
formed remarkably  well,  tripling  output  between  1965  and  1973. 
The  late  1960s  also  saw  changes  in  the  agricultural  sector.  The 
authorities  announced  a  farm  collectivization  drive  in  1967  and, 
in  an  attempt  to  take  advantage  of  economies  of  scale,  amalgamated 
smaller  collectives  into  larger  state  farms  in  1967  and  1968.  By  1970, 
Albania's  power  grid  linked  all  the  country's  rural  areas. 


113 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


In  the  early  1970s,  Albania's  economy  entered  a  tailspin  when 
China  reduced  aid  (see  Shifting  Alliances,  ch.  4).  During  the  peri- 
od of  close  ties,  the  Chinese  had  given  Albania  about  US$900  mil- 
lion in  aid  and  had  provided  extensive  credits  for  industrial 
development.  In  the  mid-1970s,  China  accounted  for  about  half 
of  Albania's  yearly  US$200  million  in  trade  turnover.  The  eco- 
nomic downturn  after  the  aid  reduction  clearly  showed  that  Alba- 
nia's Stalinist  developmental  strategy  failed  to  provide  growth  when 
levels  of  foreign  aid  were  reduced.  In  the  Fifth  Five- Year  Plan 
(1971-75),  the  government  called  for  an  increase  of  about  60  per- 
cent in  the  value  of  overall  industrial  production;  producer- goods 
production  was  to  increase  by  about  80  percent  and  consumer- goods 
output  by  about  40  percent.  General  results  from  the  first  two  years 
of  the  plan  were  relatively  satisfactory.  But  after  China  reduced 
aid  to  Albania  substantially  in  1972,  many  key  sectors  fell  disas- 
trously short  of  plan  targets.  Tirane  responded  by  launching  an 
export  drive  to  the  capitalist  West  a  year  later.  In  1974  the  govern- 
ment criticized  consumer-goods  producers  for  failing  to  meet  as- 
sortment and  quality  objectives.  During  the  five-year  period,  overall 
industrial  production  rose  just  over  50  percent;  producer- goods  out- 
put, 57  percent;  and  consumer-goods  output,  45  percent.  Despite 
the  obvious  link  with  the  curtailment  of  Chinese  aid,  the  Albanian 
government  offered  no  official  explanation  for  the  economic  down- 
turn. Widespread  purges  were  reported  in  1974,  1975,  and  1976. 

Isolation  and  Autarky 

Besides  triggering  short-term  disruptions  in  the  Fifth  Five-Year 
Plan,  China's  reduction  of  aid  to  Albania  had  a  dramatic  impact 
on  the  Balkan  nation's  broader  economic  policy  after  1972.  In  offi- 
cial parlance,  Albania's  rulers  implemented  a  strategy  of  "socialist 
construction  based  on  the  principle  of  self-reliance,"  that  is,  a  policy 
of  strict  autarky.  In  1976  the  People's  Assembly  constitutionally 
barred  the  government  from  accepting  any  loan  or  credit  from  a 
capitalist  source  and  from  granting  concessions  to  or  setting  up  joint 
ventures  with  companies  from  the  capitalist  world.  The  Albani- 
ans publicly  criticized  Beijing  beginning  in  the  fall  of  1976,  and 
China  ended  economic  aid  to  Albania  altogether  in  July  1978.  The 
break  eliminated  the  source  of  half  of  Albania's  imports.  The  coun- 
try had  no  choice  but  to  stimulate  exports  to  make  up  the  shortfall 
in  the  hard  currency  needed  to  purchase  essential  supplies.  Just 
before  the  announced  break,  government  planners  prescribed  a 
rapid  increase  in  the  production  and  export  of  Albania's  four  main 
sources  of  hard-currency  income:  oil,  chromite,  copper,  and  elec- 
tric power.  Between  1976  and  1980,  exports  jumped  33  percent 


114 


The  Economy 


over  the  preceding  five-year  period.  In  an  act  indicative  of  its 
xenophobia  and  economic  priorities,  the  regime  invested  an  esti- 
mated 2  percent  of  net  material  product  in  the  construction  and 
installation  of  thousands  of  prefabricated  cement  bunkers  through- 
out the  country  from  1977  to  1981. 

Tirane  took  energetic,  if  extreme,  steps  to  end  Albanian  depen- 
dence on  food  imports,  even  going  to  the  point  of  requiring  each 
of  the  country's  districts  to  become  self-sufficient  in  food  produc- 
tion. In  order  to  keep  people  on  the  farms,  the  authorities  also  made 
rural  wages  relatively  more  attractive  and  tightened  travel  restric- 
tions on  the  rural  population.  The  government  reduced  the  size 
of  the  personal  plots  of  collective-farm  members.  Police  also  in- 
creased harassment  of  peasants  who  attempted  to  sell  produce  in 
the  cities.  In  late  1981 ,  the  government  collectivized  private  livestock 
in  the  lowlands  as  well  as  all  goats  and  sheep  in  the  highlands.  Dis- 
aster ensued  when  peasants  undertook  a  wholesale  slaughter  of  their 
herds;  shortages  of  meat  and  dairy  products  soon  plagued  the  cities. 
Overpopulation  in  farm  communities  further  complicated  efforts 
to  achieve  self-sufficiency. 

Autarky  proved  an  unsuccessful  policy.  The  productivity  growth 
rate  fell  slowly  but  steadily  during  the  Seventh  Five-Year  Plan 
(1981-85),  and  the  annual  increase  in  net  material  product  for  the 
period  1981-88  averaged  only  1.7  percent,  a  figure  that  did  not 
even  keep  pace  with  the  country's  annual  population  increase  of 
more  than  2  percent.  Albania's  economy  suffered  two  of  its  worst 
years  in  1984  and  1985.  In  1984,  1985,  1987,  and  1988  the  net 
material  product  decreased,  and  from  1986  to  1990  it  declined  1.4 
percent  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  Five  years  of  drought  between  1983 
and  1988  dealt  sharp  setbacks  to  agricultural  and  hydroelectric  pow- 
er output.  Power  shortages  and  other  acute  problems  afflicted  two 
of  Albania's  main  generators  of  hard-currency  income,  oil  and  chro- 
me. As  output  fell,  investment  contracted  and  caused  further  drops 
in  productivity.  Insolvent  enterprises  turned  to  the  state  for  bailouts. 
The  shortage  of  goods  circulating  in  the  economy  and  the  govern- 
ment's maintenance  of  fixed  wage  levels  created  repressed  infla- 
tion and  forced  saving. 

Despite  clear  portents  of  an  economic  catastrophe,  the  regime 
took  no  radical  initiatives  to  pull  Albania  out  of  its  economic  nose- 
dive until  it  was  too  late  to  avoid  a  major  collapse.  Ramiz  Alia, 
who  became  chairman  of  the  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assembly 
in  November  1982,  gradually  assumed  more  decision-making  power 
from  Hoxha,  who  went  into  semiretirement  in  1983  and  died  in 
April  1985.  In  1986  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  still  fully  suppor- 
ted a  centrally  planned  economy.  The  party's  official  daily,  Zeri  i 


115 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Popullit,  included  the  following  proclamation  in  January  1986:  ''The 
execution  of  plan  tasks  ...  by  every  individual,  sector,  enterprise, 
agricultural  cooperative,  district,  and  ministry  is  a  great  patriotic 
duty,  a  party  and  state  duty."  A  year  later,  Alia  set  to  work  to 
quash  the  right  of  the  peasant  collective-farm  members  who  still 
had  personal  plots  to  sell  their  produce,  denouncing  the  practice 
as  a  waste  of  time  and  a  misguided  stimulation  of  a  private  mar- 
ket. The  ambitious  Eighth  Five- Year  Plan  (1986-90)  called  for  an 
increase  of  about  35  percent  in  national  income,  a  30-percent  in- 
crease in  industrial  output,  a  35-percent  improvement  in  agricul- 
tural output,  and  a  44-percent  increase  in  exports.  Targeted  for 
investment  were  a  hydroelectric  power  plant  at  Banje  in  the  south, 
a  rail  line  connecting  Durres  with  the  main  chromite-mining  area 
in  central  Albania,  new  superphosphate  and  ferrochrome  plants, 
and  the  completion  of  nickel-cobalt  and  lubrication-oil  plants. 

By  late  1989,  the  dismantling  of  the  communist  governments 
of  Eastern  Europe  and  the  reintroduction  of  capitalism  to  the  region 
were  under  way,  and  signs  of  change  began  to  appear  in  isolated 
Albania.  It  was  recognized  that  the  attempt  to  introduce  a  com- 
pletely socialized  agricultural  sector  had  failed  and  that  livestock 
collectivization  had  been  a  huge  blunder.  Nevertheless,  in  Septem- 
ber 1989  Alia  told  the  Eighth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Committee 
of  the  APL  that  the  leadership  would  "never  permit  the  weaken- 
ing of  common  socialist  property."  The  party  will  never,  he  said, 
"permit  that  the  way  be  opened  to  the  return  to  private  property 
and  capitalist  exploitation."  At  the  end  of  his  address,  however, 
Alia  said  that  guaranteed  employment,  a  cornerstone  of  the  com- 
munist system,  should  be  allowed  to  go  by  the  wayside.  Thus,  he 
signaled  that  the  leadership  had  indeed  realized  that  radical  changes 
to  the  country's  Stalinist  economic  system  were  necessary. 

In  1990  Alia  attempted  to  strengthen  the  communists'  weaken- 
ing hold  on  power  by  initiating  an  economic  reform  from  the  top 
down.  For  the  first  time,  the  leadership  proposed  broadening  pri- 
vate economic  activity  outside  of  agriculture  and  a  role  for  market 
forces  in  determining  resource  allocations  for  state-owned  indus- 
trial enterprises.  The  government  relaxed  central  planning  in 
agriculture,  increased  the  maximum  allowable  size  of  personal  plots 
to  about  0.2  hectares,  and  ordered  collective  farms  to  return 
livestock  to  peasants.  The  reforms  provided  for  an  expansion  of 
enterprise  self-financing  and  allowed  local  governments  to  plan  part 
of  the  industrial  activity  that  took  place  in  their  districts. 

In  January  1990,  at  the  Ninth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Commit- 
tee, party  leaders  disclosed  a  reform  program  that  constituted  an 
even  more  radical  departure  from  their  purely  Stalinist  rhetoric 


116 


The  Economy 


of  only  a  few  months  earlier.  Enterprises  were  divided  into  small 
units  and  made  financially  independent,  with  long-term  bank  credits 
replacing  state  subsidies.  The  package  included  decentralization 
of  economic  decision  making.  Workers  won  the  right  to  choose  and 
dismiss  enterprise  directors.  Wages  were  to  be  based  on  plan  ful- 
fillment and  enterprise  profits.  Supply  and  demand  were  to  deter- 
mine the  prices  of  luxury  goods.  Citizens  were  permitted  to 
undertake  private  construction  for  their  own  use.  Agricultural 
cooperatives  were  allowed  to  sell  food  in  towns  and  set  their  own 
prices.  At  the  Tenth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Committee  in  April 
1990,  Alia  said  that  as  a  consequence  of  the  reforms  a  significant 
turnover  had  occurred  among  the  directors  of  Albania's  enterprises. 
Resistance  to  the  reforms  came  from  administrative  employees  un- 
willing or  unable  to  adapt  to  new  job  requirements.  Some  firms 
responded  to  the  economic  reforms  by  reducing  their  output  tar- 
gets in  hope  of  increasing  their  bonuses;  other  firms,  hoping  to  avoid 
penalties  for  sustaining  unplanned  losses,  actually  planned  for  losses 
in  advance. 

The  government  failed  to  implement  the  reforms  quickly  enough 
to  stem  the  tide  of  popular  unrest  and  prevent  economic  disaster. 
In  the  summer  of  1990,  the  existence  of  unemployment  became 
apparent  in  Albania.  A  new  drought  reduced  supplies  of  electri- 
city from  Albania's  hydroelectric  dams  and  forced  plant  shutdowns. 
Thousands  of  Albanians  demanding  visas  stormed  Tirane's  few 
Western  embassies.  The  first  postwar  opposition  political  move- 
ment emerged  in  December  1990;  riots  in  Tirane  and  Shkoder  in 
April  1991  galvanized  antigovernment  forces;  and  thousands  of  Al- 
banians fled  to  Greece  and  Italy,  but  most  were  later  forcibly 
returned. 

By  mid- 1991,  only  a  quarter  of  Albania's  production  capacity 
was  functioning.  Industrial  output  in  the  third  quarter  was  60  per- 
cent less  than  in  the  third  quarter  of  1990.  The  foreign  debt  reached 
about  US$354  million  in  mid-1991,  up  from  US$254  million  at 
the  end  of  1990  and  US$96  million  at  the  close  of  1989.  Despite 
the  paralysis  in  production,  the  government  fed  inflation  by  issu- 
ing unbacked  money  to  pay  idle  workers  80  percent  of  their  nor- 
mal wages.  The  opportunity  to  pilfer  became  one  of  the  strongest 
factors  motivating  people  to  go  to  work,  and  the  absence  of  clearly 
defined  property  rights  and  the  breakdown  of  the  rule  of  law  fueled 
rampant  theft  of  both  private  and  state-owned  property.  The  pro- 
longed shutdown  of  production  lines  threatened  serious  damage 
to  equipment  and  other  capital  goods,  which  suffered  at  least 
as  much  from  plunder  and  cannibalization  as  from  normal 
depreciation. 


117 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  chaos,  consideration  of  the  transition  costs  inherent  in  the 
changeover  from  a  socialist  to  a  capitalist  system  became  irrele- 
vant. The  coalition  government  that  took  office  in  June  1991 
responded  to  the  situation  by  announcing  that  it  intended  to  carry 
out  radical  economic  reforms  including  privatization  of  agricul- 
tural land,  creation  of  a  legal  framework  necessary  for  the  func- 
tioning of  a  market  economy,  commercialization  and  privatization 
of  economic  enterprises,  tight  monetary  and  fiscal  policies,  price 
and  foreign-trade  liberalization,  limited  convertibility  of  Albania's 
currency,  and  the  creation  of  a  social  safety  net.  However,  the  coali- 
tion government  fell  several  months  later.  In  April  1992,  a  victori- 
ous Albanian  Democratic  Party  (ADP)  took  over  the  government 
and  assumed  the  burden  of  implementing  badly  needed  economic 
reforms. 

Economic  System 

Change  from  a  centrally  planned  economy  to  a  free-market  sys- 
tem necessarily  entails  hardship,  job  redistribution,  income  fluc- 
tuations, and  a  naturally  unpopular  abandonment  of  a  false  sense 
of  security.  Albania's  Stalinist  economic  system,  however,  disin- 
tegrated so  completely  in  the  early  1990s  that  the  people  had  little 
choice  but  to  take  cover  as  the  government  enacted  sweeping  free- 
market  reforms.  Article  1  of  an  August  1991  law  on  economic  ac- 
tivity ripped  the  heart  out  of  the  Stalinist  economic  system,  provid- 
ing for  the  protection  of  private  property  and  foreign  investments 
and  legalizing  private  employment  of  workers,  privatization  of  state 
property,  and  the  extension  and  acceptance  of  credit.  Government 
officials  set  to  work  drafting  a  new  civil  code,  a  revised  commer- 
cial code,  new  enterprise  laws,  and  new  banking,  tax,  labor,  anti- 
trust, and  social  security  legislation.  Widespread  anarchy,  an  almost 
complete  production  shutdown,  a  paucity  of  capital,  and  a  lack  of 
managers  trained  to  deal  with  the  vagaries  of  a  market  economy 
slowed  the  reform  process. 

Governmental  Bodies  and  Control 

In  its  last  months  in  power,  Albania's  communist  regime  en- 
gaged nine  ministries  in  the  battle  to  free  up  the  country's  para- 
lyzed economy.  The  Council  of  Ministers  and  the  Ministry  of 
Finance  formed  the  hub  of  economic  decision  making,  and  work- 
ers and  managers  at  troubled  enterprises  regularly  turned  directly 
to  them  for  direction.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  took  most  respon- 
sibility for  implementing  the  government's  economic  reform  pro- 
grams. It  drew  up  accounting  and  tax  regulations  as  well  as  rules 
on  the  documentation  of  business  activity  and  contributions  to 


118 


A  man  harvesting  with  a  scythe  in  a  field  in  the  central  coastal  region 
Albanians  loading  grass  into  a  wagon  near  the  town 
of  Lushnje  in  the  central  part  of  the  country 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


119 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


social  security  funds.  Inspectors  from  the  Ministry  of  Finance, 
known  as  the  " treasury  police"  or  "financial  police."  enforced 
the  country's  economic  laws,  oversaw  customs  posts,  and  worked, 
albeit  with  little  success,  to  curb  black-market  speculators  and  take 
action  against  violators  of  price  ceilings.  The  other  ministries  con- 
cerned with  the  economy,  such  as  agriculture,  construction,  in- 
dustry, trade,  and  transportation,  implemented  plans  affecting  their 
respective  sectors. 

Ownership  and  Private  Property 

Albania's  government  sought  to  save  itself  during  the  collapse 
of  the  country's  economy  by  abandoning  its  Stalinist  ideology,  reviv- 
ing family  farms,  and  allowing  for  the  creation  of  small  trade  and 
service  businesses.  It  launched  reforms  in  early  1991  that  legal- 
ized private  ownership  and  gave  statutory  protection  to  joint  ven- 
tures involving  .Albanian  and  foreign  companies.  In  its  June  1991 
economic  program,  the  coalition  government  called  for  the  rapid 
privatization  of  state-owned  property,  including  the  relinquishment 
of  agricultural  land  to  private  farmers  and  the  transfer  of  owner- 
ship of  industrial  enterprises  through  a  free  distribution  of  shares 
in  mutual  funds  or  stock  in  holding  companies.  Later  the  govern- 
ment began  auctioning  off  small  enterprises,  including  shops  and 
restaurants,  as  well  as  distributing  apartments  and  homes  to  their 
current  residents  without  requiring  payment.  The  government  also 
planned  to  liquidate  unsalvageable  enterprises. 

The  new  government  supported  calls  for  a  crash  privatization 
program  and  the  free  granting  of  ownership  rights  to  the  "most 
natural  recipients"  by  arguing  that  the  economy  sorely  lacked  in- 
dependent decision  makers  and  that  no  recover}*  could  be  expect- 
ed until  private  property  had  been  established.  The  economy's 
paralysis  and  widespread  popular  unrest  underscored  the  urgency 
of  going  forward  with  some  kind  of  privatization  scheme.  The  law 
on  economic  activities  provided  for  the  privatization  of  industrial 
enterprises  and  firms  dealing  with  handicrafts,  construction,  trans- 
portation, bank  services,  foreign  and  domestic  trade,  housing,  cul- 
ture and  the  arts,  and  legal  services.  The  law.  however,  called  for 
special  legislation  to  regulate  the  privatization  of  Albania's  energy 
and  mineral  extraction  industries,  telecommunications,  forest  and 
water  resources,  roadways  and  railroads,  ports  and  airports,  and 
air  and  rail  transportation  enterprises.  The  government  created 
a  National  Privatization  Agency  to  auction  off  enterprises;  Alba- 
nians were  to  receive  first  option  to  buy. 

Privatization  proceeded  in  tits  and  starts,  but  within  several 
months  about  30.000  people  found  themselves  employed  in  the 


120 


The  Economy 


nonagricultural  private  sector.  The  government  privatized  about 
25,000  retail  stores  and  service  enterprises  and  about  50  percent 
of  all  small  state  enterprises  in  each  sector,  mostly  through  direct 
sales  to  workers.  Also  privatized  were  state  firms  engaged  in  han- 
dicrafts, a  brick  factory,  bakeries,  a  fishery  and  fishing  boats,  a 
construction  company,  and  six  seagoing  cargo  vessels.  The  gov- 
ernment also  planned  a  large-scale  privatization  of  workshops, 
production  lines,  and  factories.  The  original  plan  called  for  the  es- 
tablishment of  about  five  mutual  funds  and  transformation  of  the 
surviving  larger  state  enterprises  into  joint-stock  companies.  The 
shares  in  these  companies  would  be  distributed  to  the  mutual  funds, 
whose  shares  would  in  turn  be  distributed  free  to  all  adult  citizens 
resident  in  Albania.  Limited  domestic  capital,  however,  made  pri- 
vatization of  large  enterprises  difficult. 

Enterprises  and  Firms 

Prior  to  the  1990s,  the  state  owned  and  ran  all  enterprises.  Reams 
of  instructions  sent  from  central  planners  constituted  upper  manage- 
ment. Enterprise  directors  did  not  have  power  over  investment, 
employment,  production,  or  any  other  decision-making  areas  but 
were  responsible  for  maintaining  initial  capital  stock.  Competition 
among  enterprises  did  not  exist.  In  October  1990,  however,  as  the 
economic  system's  breakdown  became  fully  apparent,  the  govern- 
ment enacted  a  new  enterprise  law  giving  workers  management, 
but  not  ownership,  of  the  enterprises  that  employed  them.  In  Au- 
gust 1991,  the  law  on  economic  activity  enabled  persons  seeking 
to  open  businesses  to  register  at  the  court  of  the  district  in  which 
they  wished  to  operate.  The  court  would,  within  a  ten-day  period, 
decide  whether  or  not  to  grant  an  operating  license.  If  denied  a 
license,  a  registrant  could  appeal  to  a  higher  court,  which  had  to 
decide  on  the  matter  within  another  ten  days.  The  law  on  busi- 
ness activity  also  required  private  enterprises  to  abide  by  govern- 
ment standards  for  quality;  weights  and  measures;  safety,  sanitary, 
and  working  conditions;  and  environmental  protection. 

With  the  help  of  consultants  from  the  European  Community 
(EC — see  Glossary),  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary),  and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  the  Council  of 
Ministers  also  began  working  on  a  new  law  on  the  activities  of  state 
enterprises.  In  draft,  the  law  provided  for  the  state  to  supervise 
the  operation  of  surviving  state-owned  enterprises  but  allowed  their 
managers  a  broad  measure  of  independence.  The  draft  also  provid- 
ed for  the  creation  of  a  steering  council  for  each  enterprise,  which 
would  be  nominated  by  the  appropriate  ministry  or  a  local  govern- 
ment. The  council  would  make  major  management  decisions;  work 


121 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


up  the  enterprise's  business  plan;  manage  relations  with  the  govern- 
ment, other  enterprises,  and  employees;  and  set  wages  and  bonuses. 
A  delegate  elected  by  fellow  employees  would  represent  the  enter- 
prise's workers  on  the  steering  council  but  would  not  have  a  vote. 
The  draft  bill  also  defined  how  net  revenues  would  be  divided 
among  capital  reserves,  development  funds,  social  assistance,  and 
employee  bonuses. 

By  freeing  prices,  eliminating  barriers  to  trade,  applying  bank- 
ing criteria  to  credits,  and  instituting  new  policies  on  interest  rates, 
Albania's  government  gradually  bolted  together  a  new  framework 
for  assessing  the  potential  viability  of  the  country's  enterprises. 
Western  economists  proposed  a  recovery  program  calling  for  in- 
fusions of  aid,  management  supervision,  and  closure  of  loss- 
generating  enterprises.  The  program  included  commitments  by 
donor  nations  of  US$140  million  in  spare  parts  and  raw  materials 
to  jump-start  paralyzed  industries.  Under  the  program,  enterprises 
whose  output  was  valued  at  less  than  the  cost  of  inputs  would  not 
be  restarted  because  halting  production  and  paying  full  wages  to 
idled  workers  would  be  less  damaging  to  the  overall  economy  than 
maintaining  operations.  The  viability  of  restarted  firms  would  be 
evaluated  six  to  nine  months  after  the  introduction  of  free-market 
conditions.  These  enterprises  would  face  either  a  rollover  of  capi- 
tal credits,  a  rollover  of  working  capital  credits  accompanied  by 
an  investment  credit,  or  liquidation  by  the  auctioning  of  assets. 

Finance  and  Banking 

Under  the  communist  system,  the  government  made  all  invest- 
ment decisions,  allocating  monies  to  enterprises  directly  from  state 
coffers.  Enterprises  were  permitted  only  to  manage  their  initial  cap- 
ital stock  and  were  not  allowed  to  dispose  of  or  acquire  new  capi- 
tal. Each  enterprise  redeposited  a  predetermined  sum  into  the  state 
budget  to  compensate  for  the  cost  of  its  fixed  assets.  The  financing 
mechanism  failed  in  the  early  1990s  because  production  rates  plum- 
meted and  state  enterprises  generated  far  more  losses  than  gains. 
As  a  consequence,  government  revenues  and  reserves  rapidly 
shrank.  By  mid- 1991  Albania's  budget  deficit  was  equal  to  almost 
half  of  the  country's  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary). 
Unbacked  currency  was  issued  to  finance  a  large  part  of  the  banking 
system,  and  inflation  soared.  Decades  of  communist-enforced  iso- 
lation had  left  few  Albanians  with  an  understanding  of  the  pitfalls 
of  complex  financial  transactions.  In  1989  and  1990,  according  to 
the  Council  of  Ministers,  State  Bank  of  Albania  currency  traders 
speculated  recklessly  on  the  world  spot-money  market.  Taking  on 
market  commitments  of  up  to  US$2  billion  in  a  single  currency, 


122 


The  Economy 


these  traders  reportedly  marked  up  losses  of  as  much  as  US$170 
million,  a  huge  figure  considering  that  the  country's  annual  ex- 
ports at  the  time  amounted  to  about  US$100  million. 

The  efficient  replacement  of  government  plan  instructions  by 
consumer  preferences  in  determining  resource  allocation  required 
the  development  of  a  true  capital  market  in  Albania.  The  August 
1991  law  on  economic  activity  allowed  private  persons,  for  the  first 
time  since  World  War  II,  to  finance  businesses  with  lek  (L;  for 
value  of  the  lek — see  Glossary)  investments  and  foreign  currency 
through  the  State  Bank  of  Albania,  other  state-owned  banks,  and 
domestic  or  foreign  private  banks.  Albania  joined  the  IMF  in  1991 
and  thereafter  worked  to  secure  a  standby  credit  agreement.  In 
the  absence  of  an  effective  domestic  banking  system,  illegal  money 
changers  and  black  marketeers  met  the  demand  for  credit  and 
money-changing  services  on  a  bustling  Tirane  street  corner  known 
locally  as  "the  Bank,"  where  an  estimated  US$60,000  to 
US$80,000  changed  hands  each  day. 

Albania's  government,  assisted  by  specialists  from  the  IMF  and 
World  Bank,  prepared  a  two-tier  banking  system  to  be  governed 
by  laws  on  the  central  bank  and  the  commercial  banking  system. 
Under  the  draft  banking  laws,  the  National  Bank  of  Albania,  a 
reorganized  version  of  the  old  State  Bank  of  Albania,  would  issue 
and  manage  the  national  currency  and  oversee  credit  policies.  The 
central  bank  would  also  manage  foreign-exchange  reserves,  act  as 
a  fiscal  agent  for  the  government,  maintain  a  securities  exchange 
market,  and  license  other  banks  to  operate  in  Albania.  The  bank 
would  be  responsible  to  the  People's  Assembly  and  therefore  main- 
tain some  distance  from  the  government  administration.  The  coun- 
try's banking  system  would  include  the  Albanian  Commercial  Bank, 
which  took  over  commercial  foreign-exchange  transactions  from 
the  State  Bank  of  Albania;  the  Savings  Bank;  and  the  Bank  for  Ag- 
ricultural Development. 

With  a  branch  in  every  district,  130  rural  offices,  and  500  staff 
members,  the  main  source  of  formal  agricultural  credit  in  Albania 
was  the  Bank  for  Agricultural  Development.  The  government  sepa- 
rated the  farm  bank  from  the  State  Bank  of  Albania  in  1991 .  New 
banking  laws  excluded  the  Bank  for  Agricultural  Development 
pending  a  parliamentary  agreement  with  parliament.  At  issue  was 
whether  the  bank  would  loan  money  and  set  interest  rates  accord- 
ing to  bankers'  criteria,  the  primary  one  being  the  potential  for 
timely  repayment  at  a  profit,  or  give  special  treatment  to  small  farm- 
ers and  act  as  a  government  agent  channeling  funds  to  state  farms 
and  state-owned  enterprises.  The  farm  bank's  portfolio  included 
close  to  L4.0  billion  (US$592  million)  in  bad  loans  to  state  farms, 


123 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

dissolved  collectives,  and  state-owned  enterprises.  A  debt-resolution 
agency  was  likely  to  assume  responsibility  for  collection  of  these 
bad  loans,  90  percent  of  whose  face  value  had  been  underwritten 
by  the  state.  The  bank's  only  real  assets  were  L320  million  in  loans 
to  individuals  and  L254  million  in  deposits. 

Currency  and  Monetary  Policy 

For  decades  Albania's  government  artificially  maintained  the  ex- 
change rate  of  the  country's  currency,  the  lek,  at  between  L5  and 
L7  to  US$1  without  regard  to  production,  prices,  the  external  mar- 
ket, or  other  factors.  Among  the  casualties  of  the  economic  col- 
lapse of  the  early  1990s  was  the  government's  control  over  public 
finances  and  monetary  aggregates;  another  victim  was  the  lek's 
facade  of  stability.  An  enormous  budget  deficit,  brought  on  in  part 
by  huge  government  subsidies  to  money-losing  enterprises  during 
a  period  of  almost  complete  breakdown  in  production,  led  to  triple- 
digit  inflation.  The  regime  took  steps  to  impose  monetary  discipline 
by  suspending  payment  of  wage  increases.  To  slow  inflation,  the 
government  promised  to  cut  its  budget  and  eliminate  price  sup- 
ports and  subsidies  to  loss-generating  state  enterprises. 

The  government's  first  tentative  step  toward  currency  conver- 
tibility came  when  the  August  1991  law  on  economic  activity  legal- 
ized the  exchange  of  foreign  currency  for  leks  at  rates  set  by  the 
State  Bank  of  Albania  or  by  the  private  foreign  currency  market. 
A  month  later,  the  government  devalued  the  lek  by  150  percent 
and  pegged  it  to  the  European  Currency  Unit  (see  Glossary).  The 
inflationary  spiral  quickly  drove  the  lek's  value  downward.  For- 
eign businesses  had  no  choice  but  to  reinvest  lek  profits,  despite 
the  government's  announced  intention  of  introducing  a  fully  con- 
vertible lek,  because  the  acute  shortage  of  foreign-currency  reserves 
made  convertibility  impossible. 

Government  Revenues  and  Expenditures 

Tax  collection  had  been  a  serious  problem  in  the  Albanian- 
populated  lands  at  least  since  the  Ottoman  Empire  extended  its 
rule  over  the  region  and  probably  since  Roman  times.  The  govern- 
ment eliminated  personal  income  taxes  in  1967  and  all  personal 
taxes  in  1970.  For  the  next  twenty  years,  central  and  local  govern- 
ments collected  revenues  primarily  through  turnover  taxes  and 
revenue  deductions  from  state  and  collective  enterprises.  In  1984 
these  collections  accounted  for  a  record  96  percent  of  government 
revenue.  Chaos  overtook  Albania's  fiscal  and  taxation  systems  in 
1990,  revenues  dried  up,  and  the  government  had  to  issue  unbacked 
currency  to  continue  operations.  In  1991  the  government  announced 


124 


The  Economy 


that  the  country's  fiscal  system  had  to  be  strengthened  because  "no 
market  economy  exists  without  taxes."  The  People's  Assembly  set 
to  work  on  a  battery  of  revenue  measures,  including  a  tax  on  profits, 
a  sales  tax,  a  business  registration  tax,  a  motor  vehicle  tax,  and 
excise  taxes  on  cigarettes,  alcoholic  beverages,  and  oil  products. 
Predictably,  talk  of  taxes  fueled  resentment  among  neophyte  en- 
trepreneurs. 

The  law  on  taxation  of  profits,  which  the  government  hoped  to 
implement  in  early  1992,  appeared  to  offer  significant  incentives 
to  private  enterprise  and  foreign  investment.  It  required  payment 
of  a  30  percent  tax  on  yearly  profits  but  exempted  private  persons 
from  payment  for  three  years  from  the  time  they  began  business 
activities.  Joint  ventures  and  foreign-owned  firms  were  required 
to  pay  a  30  percent  profit  tax.  Upon  completing  ten  years  of  busi- 
ness activity  in  Albania,  a  joint  venture  or  foreign  firm  would  receive 
tax  reductions.  Foreign  enterprises  and  persons  who  reinvested 
profits  in  Albania  received  a  40  percent  tax  reduction  on  the  amount 
reinvested.  The  proposed  measure,  however,  would  require  all  joint 
ventures  and  foreign-owned  enterprises  engaged  in  mining  and 
energy  production  to  pay  a  50  percent  profits  tax.  Foreign  per- 
sons were  required  to  pay  a  10  percent  tax  on  all  repatriated  profits. 

With  only  limited  capacity  to  generate  tax  revenues,  the  govern- 
ment emphasized  reducing  the  overall  budget  deficit  and  public 
debt.  Proceeds  from  the  legitimate  sale  of  international  aid  items 
were  used  to  maintain  essential  government  functions  and  the  so- 
cial safety  net.  Local  government  reform  depended  on  the  develop- 
ment of  a  new  system  of  financing  based  on  users'  fees,  local  taxes, 
and  central-government  grants.  Albania's  local  governments  were 
in  dire  need  of  technical  assistance  to  establish  a  local  finance 
system  and  train  government  staff  in  planning  and  financial 
management. 

Savings 

Albania's  communists  claimed  they  had  engineered  the  world's 
thriftiest  society.  One  in  three  Albanians  maintained  a  savings  ac- 
count. The  volume  of  deposits  in  Albania's  savings  bank  rose  by 
200  times  between  1950  and  the  late  1980s,  albeit  from  a  minus- 
cule base.  Between  1980  and  1983,  the  savings  rate  grew  28  per- 
cent. The  continual  increases  in  personal  savings  indicated  that 
the  economy  was  not  producing  adequate  quantities  of  consumer 
goods.  The  government-run  banks  offered  a  2  percent  interest  rate 
on  short-term  deposits  and  3  percent  on  long-term  deposits.  After 
the  economic  crash  of  the  early  1990s,  saving,  at  least  in  cash,  was 
not  an  option  for  most  of  the  population.  The  wage  of  an  average 


125 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Albanian  worker  dropped  to  about  US$10  per  month;  a  day's  pay 
bought  a  half  kilogram  of  cheese. 

Work  Force  and  Standard  of  Living 

Until  the  1990s,  Albania's  working  people  played  practically  no 
meaningful  decision-making  role  in  the  country's  economic  life. 
Most  workers  simply  followed  orders  and  scrambled  to  find  neces- 
sities in  the  country's  poorly  stocked  stores.  Personal  initiative  too 
often  either  went  unrewarded  or  was  considered  ideologically  un- 
sound and  therefore  hazardous  to  personal  safety.  The  regime  de- 
nied the  existence  of  unemployment  in  Albania  but  kept  thousands 
of  redundant  workers  and  managers  on  factory  and  government 
payrolls  and  dispatched  young  people  entering  the  work  force  to 
labor  manually  on  collective  farms  or  elsewhere  in  the  economy. 

The  collapsing  economic  system  left  most  Albanians  effectively 
jobless.  Despair,  fear  of  political  repression,  and  television-fed  ex- 
pectations of  an  easy  life  in  the  West  triggered  waves  of  emigra- 
tion to  Europe's  established  free-market  democracies,  in  particular 
Greece  and  Italy.  The  craving  to  leave  Albania  in  search  of  work 
was  so  strong  that  in  August  1991,  long  after  the  arrival  of  inter- 
national food  aid,  tens  of  thousands  of  people  converged  on  Durres 
after  rumors  spread  through  the  nearby  countryside  that  a  ship 
would  take  passengers  from  that  port  to  Italy. 

Prices  and  Wages 

For  many  years,  all  prices  and  wages  were  fixed  by  the  govern- 
ment, using  annual  economic  plans.  The  leadership  followed  the 
Stalinist  model  of  conveying  general  productivity  gains  to  house- 
holds by  reducing  retail  prices  rather  than  by  raising  wages,  which 
would  have  allowed  consumers  a  modicum  of  leverage  in  the  mar- 
ketplace and,  if  goods  were  unavailable  or  failed  to  attract  pur- 
chasers, would  have  produced  inflationary  pressure,  forced  savings, 
and  a  black  market.  Between  1950  and  1969,  the  Albanian  authori- 
ties lowered  prices  thirteen  times.  The  1970s  witnessed  no  price 
cuts,  but  the  government  reduced  some  prices  again  in  1982  and 
1983.  Enterprises  that  sustained  losses  because  of  the  governments' 
system  of  setting  wages  and  prices  were  compensated  with  subsi- 
dies from  the  state  budget. 

The  economic  anarchy  that  followed  the  collapse  of  the  centrally 
planned  system  ended  the  years  of  artificial  price  stability.  The  Au- 
gust 1991  law  on  economic  activity  removed  price  controls  on  the 
prices  of  all  goods  except  bread,  meat,  dairy  products,  other  es- 
sential food  items,  other  goods  in  short  supply,  and  products  pro- 
duced by  monopoly  enterprises.  Also,  the  law  required  an  annual 


126 


The  Economy 


review  of  price  ceilings.  Price  controls  became  less  effective  as  pri- 
vate food  markets  developed.  The  price  freeze  even  failed  to  halt 
price  increases  for  rationed  food  items  because  they  disappeared 
from  the  shelves  of  state  stores,  where  price  restrictions  were  en- 
forced, and  found  their  way  onto  the  black  market,  where  specu- 
lators kept  prices  high.  The  Council  of  Ministers  endorsed  a  draft 
law  on  prices,  drawn  up  by  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  which  would 
free  retail,  wholesale,  and  producer  prices  for  all  but  a  few  agricul- 
tural commodities  and  monopoly  controlled  products.  The  authori- 
ties introduced  trade  liberalization  to  stimulate  supply  increases 
and  competition,  which  they  hoped  would  maintain  downward  pres- 
sure on  prices.  The  government  also  planned  gradual  elimination 
of  subsidies  for  money-losing  firms  in  an  attempt  to  stop  hyper- 
inflation. 

Under  the  communist  system,  Albania's  government  had  main- 
tained one  of  the  world's  most  egalitarian  wage  structures.  The 
central  authorities  fixed  the  number  of  workers  at  an  enterprise, 
assigned  them  to  particular  jobs,  and  set  the  wage  fund,  which  for 
the  nation  as  a  whole  translated  in  1983  to  a  monthly  pay  of  about 
L400  for  a  worker  and  about  L900  for  a  manager.  By  1988  aver- 
age worker  earnings  grew  to  between  L600  and  L700  (US$89- 
US$104);  and  pay  for  top  officials  reached  LI, 500  (US$223).  In 
the  early  1990s,  the  regime  modified  the  wage  system,  creating  in- 
centives for  overfulfillment  of  plan  targets,  and  allowing  for  a  10 
percent  pay  cut  for  management  if  enterprises  failed  to  attain  plan 
targets. 

Economic  liberalization  spawned  a  private  sector  without  wage 
controls.  Market-driven  price  hikes  forced  the  government  to  raise 
wages  for  state  workers  twice  in  mid- 1991.  During  the  economic 
chaos,  negotiators  for  Albania's  newly  independent  trade  unions 
demanded  that  the  government  automatically  increase  wages  to 
keep  pace  with  price  hikes.  At  state  factories  and  farms  idled  by 
disruptions  in  deliveries  of  raw  materials,  workers'  salaries  were 
reduced  only  20  percent,  a  move  strongly  criticized  by  the  coun- 
try's main  opposition  party  as  inherently  inflationary.  The  oppo- 
sition called  for  fixed  wages  for  workers  at  state  enterprises  and 
an  absolute  limit  on  subsidies  to  money-losing  enterprises,  as  two 
means  of  slowing  the  bidding-up  of  wages  and  inflation.  In  the 
chaos,  the  average  monthly  income  for  Albanian  workers  plum- 
meted to  the  equivalent  of  about  US$10. 

Enver  Hoxha  and  his  followers  enforced  frugality  on  Albanians 
for  decades.  The  regime  made  few  significant  attempts  to  turn  the 
product  mix  of  the  country's  industrial  sector  away  from  heavy 
industrial  goods  and  toward  consumer  goods,  especially  durable 


127 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

consumer  goods.  Instead  of  absorbing  personal  savings  by  produc- 
ing and  selling  more  consumer  items,  the  government  lowered  the 
incomes  of  the  few  highly  paid  and  skilled  workers.  People  who 
complained  often  lost  their  jobs  and  were  sent  to  state  farms.  The 
policy  eased  inflationary  pressures  but  had  dire  consequences  for 
worker  motivation  and  willingness  to  accept  responsibility.  The  Al- 
banian economy's  reliance  on  domestic  monopolies  made  it  espe- 
cially susceptible  to  shortages.  The  country's  only  glass  factory, 
for  example,  shut  down  in  mid- 1990.  Lacking  hard  currency  to 
purchase  imported  glass,  Albanians  had  to  live  without  bottles  and 
replacement  windows.  When  Italy  delivered  plate  glass  as  part  of 
relief  supplies,  it  was  discovered  that  the  Albanians  had  no  glaz- 
ing putty. 

Domestic  consumption  at  first  slowed  with  the  collapse  of  the 
Stalinist  economic  system.  In  1991  state  shops  were  practically  empty 
of  goods,  if  they  were  open  at  all.  Milk,  butter,  eggs,  and  medicines 
were  in  short  supply.  People  had  to  squeeze  through  metal-barred 
windows  at  bakeries  just  to  buy  loaves  of  bread.  Private  stores  and 
black  marketeers  had  a  relatively  wide  variety  of  goods,  including 
pasta,  peeled  tomatoes,  soap,  fruit  juices,  and  toilet  paper,  but  with 
one  kilogram  of  spaghetti  costing  a  tenth  of  the  average  monthly 
salary,  these  goods  were  far  beyond  the  purchasing  power  of  the 
vast  majority  of  the  population.  The  government  introduced  general 
rationing,  but  by  mid- 1991  widespread  fear  that  supplies  of  basic 
food  items  would  run  out  caused  crowds  to  begin  plundering  ware- 
houses and  retail  outlets.  Hopes  for  increased  supplies  and  broad- 
er choices  in  the  marketplace  grew  with  the  emergence  of  the  private 
sector,  which  almost  immediately  began  bringing  in  products  that 
previously  were  unavailable,  and  often  banned. 

Domestic  Consumption 

Even  the  communist  government's  sparse  official  statistics  could 
not  hide  the  fact  that  the  Albanians  suffered  a  low  living  standard. 
From  the  mid-1970s,  the  economy  struggled  to  produce  enough 
food  and  consumer  goods  to  supply  the  quickly  growing  popula- 
tion. In  the  early  1990s,  serious  difficulty  in  simply  feeding  the 
country  forced  the  government  to  scrap  its  Stalinist  economic  poli- 
cies and  to  appeal  for  foreign  humanitarian  relief  to  avert 
widespread  hunger.  Saving  became  an  impossibility  for  almost  the 
entire  population. 

Standard  of  Living 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  average  pay  for  an  Albanian  worker  was 
about  US$89  to  US$104  monthly  at  the  official  exchange  rate  of 


128 


The  Economy 


US$1  to  L6.75.  The  government  supplemented  low  incomes  by 
annually  allocating  about  25  percent  of  the  annual  budget,  about 
L4,000  (US$595)  for  each  family,  to  the  population's  cultural  and 
social  needs,  including  everything  from  price  subsidies  for  neces- 
sities like  children's  clothing  to  library  construction.  The  state 
provided  free  education  and  health  care  and  absorbed  65  percent 
of  tuition  for  day  care  and  kindergarten  and  18  to  35  percent  of 
the  cost  of  meals  in  workers'  cafeterias. 

Under  the  communist  regime,  the  cost  of  living  for  the  average 
Albanian  was  generally  low.  Food  was  generally  inexpensive  but 
in  chronically  short  supply.  The  Albanians'  staple  diet  consisted 
of  bread,  sugar,  pasta,  and  rice,  which  were  sold  at  or  near  cost. 
Production  shortfalls  limited  supplies  of  meat,  dairy  products,  and 
other  protein-rich  foods.  Albanians  enjoyed  increasing  supplies  of 
clothing  in  the  late  1980s,  but  price,  quality,  and  style  left  much 
to  be  desired.  The  state  subsidized  the  prices  of  children's  cloth- 
ing and  shoes,  but  a  man's  shirt  could  cost  about  L200  (US$30), 
a  suit  L675  (US$100),  and  a  woman's  sweater  L150  (US$22).  A 
farmer  had  to  work  about  two  weeks  to  buy  a  pair  of  the  most  in- 
expensive shoes.  Durable  goods  carried  exorbitant  price  tags.  A 
bicycle  sold  for  about  L900  (US$134);  a  motorbike,  L2,700 
(US$402);  a  radio,  LI, 000  (US$149);  a  television,  L4,000 
(US$595).  The  ever- vigilant  state  required  that  purchasers  of  tel- 
evisions and  refrigerators  obtain  permits.  Housing  rents  were  low, 
usually  amounting  to  between  1  percent  and  3  percent  of  an  aver- 
age family's  income.  In  1980,  for  example,  the  monthly  rent  for 
an  apartment  in  Lezhe  came  to  L40  (US$7.50).  Public  transpor- 
tation also  cost  little. 

Officials  estimated  that  the  standard  of  living  for  town  dwel- 
lers with  average  monthly  incomes  dropped  by  about  half  in  1991 . 
Government  statistics  showed  that  a  typical  family  with  an  aver- 
age monthly  income  of  LI  ,300  in  December  1990  would  need  more 
than  L4,500  to  keep  up  with  inflation  over  the  same  period.  In 
1991  a  kilogram  of  spinach  sold  for  L60  at  Tirane's  produce  mar- 
ket; oranges  cost  L200  per  half  kilogram;  and  a  bottle  of  orange 
drink,  L600.  Per  capita  annual  meat  consumption  in  cities  totaled 
about  11.7  kilograms  in  1990,  down  from  about  14.6  kilograms 
in  1975;  rural  meat  consumption  in  1990  was  about  9.0  kilograms 
per  capita,  actually  an  improvement  from  7.3  kilograms  per  cap- 
ita in  1975.  Furniture  prices  give  some  indication  of  how  per- 
sonal incomes  failed  to  maintain  pace  with  prices  in  1991.  In  one 
Tirane  store,  a  table  cost  L60,000;  a  bed,  LI 30,000;  a  door, 
L150,000. 


129 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Population  and  Work  Force 

Growing  at  least  2  percent  annually  during  the  1980s,  Albania's 
population  reached  3.2  million  by  1990.  Males  accounted  for  about 
51.5  percent  of  the  Albanian  populace.  About  60  percent  of  the 
country's  men  and  55  percent  of  its  women  were  of  working  age. 
Natural  growth  added  about  45,000  persons  to  the  working-age 
population  annually  in  the  1980s,  about  a  3.5  percent  average  yearly 
increase.  The  work  force  officially  numbered  about  1  million  peo- 
ple in  1980  and  about  1.5  million  when  the  economy  collapsed  in 
1990.  Albania's  principal  industries  were  labor-intensive,  but  there 
were  ample  labor  reserves  in  the  agricultural  population.  Workers 
officially  put  in  a  six-day,  forty-eight-hour  week  with  at  least  two 
weeks  of  annual  vacation.  People  who  fled  Albania  during  the  com- 
munist era,  however,  reported  that  ten-hour  workdays  were  the 
minimum  at  many  farms  and  factories  (see  Social  Structure  under 
Communist  Rule;  Social  Insurance,  ch.  2). 

The  government  also  assigned  almost  everyone  to  special  "work 
actions,"  which  entailed  gathering  harvests  and  building  irriga- 
tion systems  and  railroad  embankments;  "volunteer"  work  details 
scavenged  scrap  metal  and  beautified  public  parks  on  "Enver  Days" 
to  honor  the  "father  of  the  nation."  Labor  productivity  declined 
about  1.7  percent  per  year  from  1980  to  1988,  an  indication  that 
the  economy  was  failing  to  create  enough  jobs  to  absorb  the  in- 
creasing numbers  of  working-age  people.  Apart  from  diplomatic 
staff  and  emigres,  no  Albanian  nationals  were  working  abroad  be- 
fore the  communist  system's  decline. 

Albania's  employment  profile  was  clearly  that  of  a  developing 
country.  In  1987,  Albania's  agriculture  sector  employed  52  per- 
cent of  the  country's  workers;  industry,  22.9  percent;  construc- 
tion, 7.1  percent;  trade,  4.6  percent;  education  and  culture,  4.4 
percent:  and  transportation  and  communications,  2.9  percent  (see 
table  6,  Appendix).  The  failure  of  the  communist  economy,  how- 
ever, rocked  the  structure  of  Albania's  work  force.  Except  for 
workers  in  the  government  bureaucracy,  schools  and  hospitals,  the 
military  and  police,  basic  services,  and  private  firms,  the  turmoil 
left  only  a  handful  of  Albanians  with  productive  jobs.  The  doors 
slammed  shut,  for  example,  at  almost  all  the  enterprises  in  the 
mountainous  Kukes  District,  including  a  profitable  chromite  mine, 
a  copper-smelting  plant  that  closed  for  lack  of  coal,  and  a  textile 
factory  that  ran  out  of  wool  and  thread.  Albania's  government 
reported  unemployment  at  about  30  percent,  but  unofficial  1991 
estimates  indicated  that  about  50  percent  of  the  work  force  was 


130 


131 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

jobless.  Idled  factory  workers  tilled  private  plots,  sought  jobs  in 
new  private  retail  outlets  and  handicraft  workshops,  or  attempted 
to  leave  the  country  to  search  for  work  abroad.  Officials  appealed 
to  the  international  community  to  provide  material  inputs  neces- 
sary to  jump-start  Albanian  factories  and  hoped  that  a  US$10  aver- 
age monthly  wage,  one  of  the  world's  lowest  for  a  literate  labor 
force,  would  entice  foreign  investors. 

Women  in  the  Work  Force 

The  female  proportion  of  the  country's  wage-earning  work  force 
increased  markedly  after  World  War  II,  although  women  continued 
to  bear  most  of  the  responsibility  for  maintaining  Albanian's  house- 
holds. Women  had  played  a  subservient  role  in  traditional  Alba- 
nian society  and  were  for  hundreds  of  years  considered  little  more 
than  beasts  of  burden.  During  Albania's  Cultural  and  Ideological 
Revolution,  which  began  in  1966,  the  regime  encouraged  women 
to  take  jobs  outside  the  home  in  an  effort  to  overcome  their  con- 
servatism and  compensate  for  labor  shortages.  An  enormous  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  preschools  facilitated  the  entry  of  women 
into  paying  jobs.  By  late  in  the  decade,  the  regime  was  struggling 
to  overcome  male  resistance  to  the  appointment  of  women  to 
government  and  party  posts  once  held  exclusively  by  men.  Wom- 
en accounted  for  about  41  percent  of  the  overall  rural  labor  force 
in  1961  and  51.3  percent  in  1983.  Despite  Albania's  high  annual 
birth  rate  in  the  late  1980s,  women  made  up  about  47  percent  of 
the  country's  overall  work  force,  including  53  percent  of  the  labor 
force  in  agriculture;  43.5  percent  in  industry;  55  percent  in  trade; 
80  percent  in  health  care;  and  54  percent  in  education  and  cul- 
ture. In  mountain  areas,  women  made  up  a  significantly  higher 
proportion  of  farm  labor.  In  1981  women  accounted  for  70.7  per- 
cent of  the  collective-farm  work  force  in  Puke  District  and  con- 
stituted a  similarly  disproportionate  segment  in  Kukes,  Tropoje, 
Mat,  and  Libra,zhd. 

Trade  Unions 

Albanian  workers  and  enterprise  managers  had  little  significant 
influence  until  the  old  order  began  breaking  down  in  1990.  Work- 
ers for  decades  had  no  recourse  but  to  rely  on  government-con- 
trolled trade  unions  to  protect  their  interests,  but  the  ruling  party 
used  these  unions  only  as  mouthpieces  to  implore  workers  to  pro- 
duce more  and  accept  more  sacrifices.  Independent  trade  unions 
arose  from  the  ashes  of  the  official  labor  organizations  in  each 
of  the  economy's  major  sectors.  In  1991  union  representatives 
pressed  government  officials  for  concessions  on  issues  of  wages  and 


132 


The  Economy 


working  conditions,  a  general  labor  contract,  and  wage  indexing 
to  mitigate  the  effects  of  inflation.  They  also  demanded  social  secu- 
rity guarantees,  reestablishment  of  electrical  service  in  many  towns, 
and  deliveries  of  raw  materials  to  idle  factories.  Management  often 
backed  the  workers'  demands  to  the  government.  There  were  strikes 
as  well  as  mass  protests  in  central  Tirane  and  elsewhere.  In 
mid- 1991,  the  Council  of  Ministers  drafted  a  law  on  labor  rela- 
tions that  eliminated  the  job  security  Albanian  workers  had  en- 
joyed under  the  communist  system,  allowing  firms  to  dismiss 
workers  who  violated  disciplinary  standards. 

Agriculture 

The  Albanian  economy's  traditional  mainstay,  agriculture, 
generated  a  third  of  the  country's  net  material  product  and  em- 
ployed more  than  half  the  work  force  in  1990.  Domestic  farm 
products  accounted  for  63  percent  of  household  expenditures  and 
25  percent  of  exports  in  that  year.  While  striving  for  self-sufficiency 
in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  the  Hoxha  regime  created  the  world's  most 
strictly  controlled  and  isolated  farm  sector.  But  as  the  government 
force-fed  investment  funds  to  industry  at  the  farm  sector's  expense, 
food  output  fell  short  of  the  needs  of  the  rapidly  increasing  popu- 
lation. The  government  triggered  acute  disruptions  in  food  sup- 
plies by  reducing  the  size  of  personal  plots,  collectivizing  livestock, 
and  forbidding  peasants  to  market  their  produce  privately.  By  the 
early  1990s,  the  country's  farms  were  no  longer  supplying  adequate 
amounts  of  food  to  urban  areas;  they  were  also  failing  to  meet  the 
needs  of  Albanian  factories  for  raw  materials.  The  regime  responded 
by  stimulating  agricultural  production  through  a  program  of  land 
privatization  and  free-market  measures,  cognizant  that  the  success 
of  its  broader  economic  reform  program  depended  heavily  on  the 
agricultural  sector's  ability  to  feed  the  population  and  provide  the 
input-starved  production  lines  with  raw  materials. 

The  Land 

In  1991  cultivable  land  in  Albania  amounted  to  about  714,000 
hectares,  about  25  percent  of  the  country's  total  area.  Arable  land 
and  permanent  croplands  totaled  about  590,000  hectares  and 
124,000  hectares,  respectively;  permanent  pasturelands  account- 
ed for  another  409,528  hectares.  More  than  100,000  hectares  of 
the  cultivable  land  had  a  slope  greater  than  30  percent  and  was 
allocated  almost  entirely  to  permanent  tree  crops  such  as  olives. 
Forests  and  woodlands  covered  more  than  1  million  hectares,  or 
38  percent  of  the  total  land  area.  The  soils  of  the  coastal  plain  and 


133 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


eastern  plateau  were  fertile,  but  acidic  soils  were  predominant  in 
the  200,000  hectares  of  cropland  in  hilly  and  mountainous  areas. 

Irrigation  and  desalination  projects,  terracing  of  highlands,  and 
drainage  of  marshes,  often  carried  out  by  forced  labor,  added  con- 
siderably to  the  country's  cultivable  land  after  1945.  Large  popu- 
lation increases,  however,  reduced  the  amount  of  cultivable  land 
per  capita  by  35  percent  between  1950  and  1987  and  by  20  per- 
cent between  1980  and  1988.  About  423,000  hectares  were  irrigated 
in  1991,  up  from  about  39,300  hectares  in  1950.  The  economic 
disruptions  of  the  early  1990s,  however,  left  only  about  40  percent 
of  the  country's  irrigation  system  functional  and  20  percent  in  com- 
plete disrepair.  Albania  also  invested  substantially  in  imported 
Dutch  greenhouses  during  its  drive  for  food  self-sufficiency. 

Land  Distribution  and  Agricultural  Organization 

Following  Enver  Hoxha's  1967  proclamation  that  the  regime  had 
collectivized  all  of  Albania's  private  farmland,  the  country's  only 
legal  forms  of  agricultural  production  were  state  farms,  collective 
farms,  and  personal  plots  granted  to  members  of  collective  farms. 
The  first  Albanian  state  farm  grew  out  of  a  large  experimental  farm 
set  up  by  Italian  colonists  in  the  1930s.  After  World  War  II,  the 
government  amalgamated  small  collective  farms  and  transformed 
them  into  state  farms  in  each  district.  The  216  state  farms,  which 
still  controlled  24  percent  of  the  arable  land  in  1991,  functioned 
like  industrial  organizations;  thus,  state  farm  workers,  like  facto- 
ry workers,  toiled  for  set  wages.  The  state  farms  received  the  best 
land  and  equipment  and  a  disproportionate  amount  of  investment 
monies.  Collective  farms  were  the  result  of  government  campaigns 
to  coerce  peasants  into  signing  over  their  private  holdings  to  co- 
operatives and  working  the  land  in  common,  according  to  the  in- 
structions of  the  central  government's  economic  planners.  The 
authorities  later  took  gradual  steps  to  transform  collective  farms 
into  "higher- type"  farms  more  closely  resembling  state  farms  in 
their  organization.  Faced  with  dire  food  shortages,  the  regime  in 
1990  attempted  to  reform  the  agricultural  system  by  lifting  a 
200-square-meter  limitation  on  the  size  of  the  personal  plots  of  col- 
lective farm-members. 

In  July  1991,  the  government  enacted  a  law  that  nullified  old 
property  claims  and  regulated  redistribution  of  the  expropriated 
farmlands  given  to  collective  farms  after  1946.  The  law  granted 
landownership  rights  to  members  of  the  former  collective  farms 
and  their  households  without  requiring  compensation;  it  also  grant- 
ed land-use  rights  to  up  to  0.4  hectares  to  other  qualifying  resi- 
dents of  villages  attached  to  collective  farms.  The  law  provided  for 


134 


The  Economy 


the  inheritance  of  property  but  banned  land  sales  and  leases,  there- 
by blocking  voluntary  consolidation  of  tiny  landholdings  and  limiting 
farmers'  access  to  credit  by  precluding  the  use  of  land  as  collateral. 

The  government  established  the  National  Land  Commission  to 
oversee  the  land  reform.  The  minister  of  agriculture  chaired  the 
commission  and  reported  on  its  activities  to  the  Council  of 
Ministers.  District  and  village  land  commissions  demarcated  the 
land,  issued  ownership  titles,  and  compiled  a  land  registry. 

Albania's  land  redistribution  program  proceeded  rapidly  but  un- 
evenly. It  met  especially  stiff  resistance  in  the  country's  mountainous 
northeastern  regions  where  clans  anxious  to  stake  out  the  bound- 
aries of  their  traditional  family  lands  tried  to  stop  large  numbers 
of  postwar  immigrants  from  gaining  title  to  them.  Land  disputes 
threatened  to  trigger  blood  feuds.  Local  officials  also  impeded  the 
reform  process.  The  central  government  countered  by  threaten- 
ing to  prosecute  anyone  who  seized  land  illegally.  Under  the  land- 
distribution  program,  Albania's  agricultural  sector  would  gain  about 
380,000  small  family  farms  averaging  about  1.4  hectares  in  size 
and  often  made  up  of  two  or  three  plots.  In  mountain  areas,  the 
parcels  were  significantly  smaller.  In  Puke,  for  example,  the  aver- 
age size  was  just  over  0.5  hectares,  and  in  Kukes,  almost  0.9  hect- 
ares. Western  economists  estimated  that  35  percent  of  the  new  farms 
would  not  be  economically  viable  and  expressed  concern  that,  un- 
less restrictions  on  land  sales  were  lifted,  inheritance  would  lead 
to  land  fragmentation  and  hamper  development.  Fearing  that  small- 
holdings would  not  provide  sustenance,  the  government  amended 
the  land  law  to  provide  for  income  support  of  farmers  in  moun- 
tainous areas.  As  privatization  progressed,  some  families  and  owners 
of  contiguous  fields  began  to  form  private  cooperatives  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  economies  of  scale. 

Left  in  limbo  by  the  land  reform  were  the  216  state  farms  and 
their  155,000  employees,  who  accounted  for  about  20  percent  of 
the  agricultural  labor  force.  State  farms  contributed  about  30  per- 
cent of  the  value  of  the  country's  agricultural  output  and  supplied 
city  dwellers  with  most  of  their  dairy  products,  fruits,  and  vegeta- 
bles. The  state  farms'  yields  normally  outstripped  those  of  the 
cooperative  farms  by  a  third  or  more  because  the  state  farms  benefit- 
ed from  richer  soils,  more  mechanization,  and  easier  access  to  farm 
services,  government  finance,  and  transportation.  The  breakdown 
of  the  communist  structure  dealt  the  state  farms  serious  setbacks. 
By  mid- 1991  lines  of  authority  had  snapped,  equipment  and  build- 
ings had  been  plundered,  and  the  amount  of  cultivated  land  had 
decreased  by  half.  Although  it  planned  to  dissolve  sixty  money- 
losing  state  farms  in  the  mountainous  northeast,  the  government 


135 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

generally  spared  the  state  farms  from  redistribution  because  their 
breakup  would  lead  to  serious  land  fragmentation  problems  and 
reduce  urban  food  supplies.  Pasturelands  and  forests  were  also  ex- 
empted. Western  economic  analysts  concluded  that  some  of  the 
state  farms  could  turn  a  profit  and  that  foreign  companies  might 
follow  the  lead  of  one  Italian  firm  that  had  entered  into  a  joint  ven- 
ture with  a  state  farm. 

Structure  and  Marketing  of  Agricultural  Output 

Before  the  1990s,  Albania's  main  food  crops  were  wheat,  corn, 
fruits,  and  vegetables  (see  table  7,  Appendix).  However,  plan- 
ners were  devoting  increasing  attention  to  tobacco,  olives,  and 
oranges.  Between  1989  and  1991,  the  country's  crop  structure  un- 
derwent a  radical  transformation.  The  new  private  farmers  took 
responsibility  for  transporting  and  selling  their  output  and  began 
basing  their  production  and  marketing  decisions  on  free-market 
conditions.  Low  state  procurement  prices,  a  shortage  of  livestock 
feed,  the  breakdown  of  the  transportation  system,  and  a  lack  of 
demand  from  idled  processing  plants  led  to  steep  declines  in  the 
hectarage  sown  with  wheat  and  such  industrial  crops  as  tobacco, 
sugar  beets,  sunflowers,  and  cotton.  Disputes  arising  out  of  the 
government's  land-privatization  program,  shortages  of  funds  for 
seeds  and  agricultural  machinery,  and  the  hasty  privatization  of 
the  enterprises  that  provided  farmers  with  machinery  and  fertiliz- 
ers also  had  an  effect.  In  the  first  third  of  1991,  milk  production 
was  down  50  percent  compared  to  the  corresponding  period  in  1990; 
bread- grain  production  was  down  67  percent;  and  areas  sown  with 
cotton  and  tobacco  had  decreased  by  80  percent  and  50  percent, 
respectively. 

The  farmers'  choice  of  which  crops  to  plant  was  motivated 
primarily  by  the  need  to  feed  their  families  and  only  secondarily 
by  the  cash  market.  In  mid- 1991,  10  to  15  percent  of  Albania's 
cultivable  land  lay  fallow  mainly  because  the  state  enterprises  were 
not  giving  small  farmers  seed,  fertilizers,  and  other  necessary  in- 
puts. Transportation  breakdowns  and  other  problems  continued 
to  force  farmers  away  from  crops  requiring  processing,  leaving 
wheat,  sugar,  and  vegetable  oils  in  short  supply.  Production  on 
newly  privatized  plots  grew,  however,  despite  input  shortages.  Corn 
production  increased,  and  meat,  egg,  and  vegetable  output  seemed 
to  be  on  the  rise.  Western  economists  expected  agricultural  pro- 
duction to  begin  recovering  in  1992  as  the  private  sector  began 
solving  transportation  problems  and  reorganizing  production  in 
response  to  demand.  Despite  these  grounds  for  optimism,  domes- 
tic production  in  1992  was  projected  to  meet  only  about  88  percent 


136 


Tractor  plowing  a  field  just  outside  Tirarie 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

of  the  country's  need  for  meat,  48  percent  for  wheat,  30  percent 
for  sugar,  and  5  percent  for  vegetable  oils.  The  production  short- 
falls would  force  donor  countries  to  commit  additional  food  aid  to 
avert  serious  hunger. 

Livestock  and  Pasturelands 

A  botched  campaign  to  collectivize  livestock  in  the  late  1970s 
and  early  1980s  led  to  a  wholesale  slaughter  and  chronic  produc- 
tion shortfalls.  When  meat  and  dairy  product  shortages  in  the  larger 
towns  grew  critical,  Albania's  communists  retraced  their  steps.  The 
regime  gave  animal  husbandry  a  high  priority  in  the  Eighth  Five- 
Year  Plan  (1986-90).  In  July  1990,  the  government  decided  to 
allow  collective-farm  members  to  raise  cattle  on  their  private  plots 
and  instructed  the  administrators  of  collective  farms  to  transfer  a 
portion  of  their  stock  animals  to  members.  The  government  also 
recommended  that  collective  farms  in  mountainous  areas  grant 
members  0.2  hectares  of  land  each,  in  addition  to  their  private 
plots,  in  order  to  increase  livestock  production.  In  mid- 1991,  short- 
ages of  feed  severely  hampered  livestock  production  and  forced 
farmers  to  allocate  much  of  their  land  to  cultivation  of  forage  and 
feed  corn.  The  animals  raised  on  this  diet  were  deficient  in  pro- 
tein and  generally  of  poor  quality.  Despite  the  ban  on  food  exports, 


137 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

herdsmen  were  reportedly  smuggling  about  1,000  head  of  calves, 
cows,  sheep,  and  other  livestock  across  the  Greek  and  Yugoslav 
borders  each  day  because  they  lacked  fodder  and  sought  to  take 
advantage  of  high  prices  on  foreign  markets.  An  additional  challenge 
to  Albanian  stockmen  was  a  serious  shortage  of  artificial- 
insemination  and  other  veterinary  services. 

Albania's  409,528  hectares  of  pastureland  remained  state-owned 
despite  the  land  reform,  and  in  the  chaos  of  1991  the  government 
set  to  work  on  a  new  law  to  reassert  state  control  of  pasturelands 
and  give  managers  new  guidelines.  The  Ministry  of  Agriculture's 
eighteen  pasture  enterprises  managed  grazing  lands  at  the  district 
level  and  charged  customers,  including  private  herdsmen  and  farm- 
ers, a  seasonal  fee.  Price  liberalization  did  not  boost  grazing  fees 
even  though  the  enterprises  were  operating  at  a  loss  in  1991 .  Min- 
istry officials  estimated  that  grazing  fees  could  have  to  increase 
fourfold  before  the  pasture  enterprises  could  break  even.  Western 
economists  projected  that  pressure  on  Albania's  pasturelands  would 
increase  as  livestock  herds  grew  and  as  expanding  communities 
sought  land  for  residential  and  recreational  purposes. 

Mechanization 

Faithful  to  Stalin's  teachings  on  agricultural  organization,  Al- 
bania's communist  regime  allowed  state  farms  to  possess  tractors 
but  gave  collective  farms  access  to  machinery  only  through  machine 
tractor  stations  (see  Glossary).  These  stations  remained  a  corner- 
stone of  Albania's  collective  agricultural  sector  for  decades.  In  1991 
the  thirty-three  machine  tractor  stations  controlled  about  63  per- 
cent of  Albania's  10,630  tractors  and  25  percent  of  its  1,433  com- 
bine harvesters;  state  farms  controlled  the  rest.  Official  inventories 
also  listed  1,857  threshers.  As  the  old  order  collapsed,  the  tractor 
stations  metamorphosed  into  state-owned  "  agricultural  machinery 
enterprises"  that  offered  their  services  to  peasant  customers  on  a 
contractual  basis.  These  enterprises  often  ignored  state  limitations 
on  service  charges,  demanding  exorbitant  fees  as  well  as  compen- 
sation for  fuel  at  prices  higher  than  those  charged  at  the  pump. 
Some  tractor  drivers  bought  older  Chinese  tractors  and  offered  their 
services  at  prices  up  to  40  percent  more  than  those  charged  by  the 
state  enterprises.  More  than  75  percent  of  Albania's  tractors  were 
over  fifteen  years  old  in  1991;  most  tractors  were  in  disrepair  be- 
cause plant  closures  had  cut  off  supplies  of  spare  parts. 

Fertilizers,  Pesticides,  and  Seeds 

During  peak  years,  Albania  had  used  fertilizers  less  than  almost 
any  other  nation  in  Eastern  Europe.  Nevertheless,  in  the  early  1990s 


138 


The  Economy 


the  agricultural  sector  experienced  a  fertilizer  shortage;  supplies 
of  pesticides  and  hybrid  seed  also  ran  low.  In  1989  Albanian  farmers 
had  applied  about  158  kilograms  of  active  ingredients  per  hectare, 
but  the  country's  economic  breakdown  pushed  the  total  down  to 
135  kilograms  in  1990  and  38  kilograms  in  1991.  A  lack  of  hard 
currency  caused  fertilizer  supplies  to  drop  80  percent  and  pesti- 
cide reserves  to  fall  63  percent.  Ironically,  intensive  application  of 
lindane  and  other  pesticides  as  well  as  disinfectants  for  treating  soil 
at  seeding  time,  in  combination  with  monocropping  of  wheat  and 
corn,  had  destroyed  many  pests'  natural  enemies  and  increased 
dependency  on  pesticides.  Although  Albania's  agricultural  research 
institutes  produced  sufficient  foundation  seed,  obsolete  sorting  and 
cleaning  equipment  lowered  seed  quality.  Varietal  improvement 
was  dependent  on  the  crossing  of  local  strains.  The  breakup  of  col- 
lective farms,  which  produced  most  of  the  wheat  and  corn  seed, 
forced  farmers  to  seek  new  seed  suppliers. 

Forests 

Albania  has  soils  and  a  climate  favorable  to  an  extensive  lum- 
ber industry.  Although  the  postwar  government  invested  heavily 
in  afforestation,  it  developed  an  inefficient  wood  products  indus- 
try. In  the  early  1990s,  the  thickest  woodlands  were  in  the  central 
and  northern  mountain  ranges.  The  country's  southern  half  was 
mostly  deforested,  a  consequence  of  the  clear-cutting  of  oak  trees 
to  build  the  merchant  ships  of  old  Venice  and  Dubrovnik,  the  de- 
struction of  woodlands  to  create  pastures,  the  burning  of  wood  for 
fuel,  and  the  expansion  of  villages  onto  hillsides.  Albania's  nine 
state  forestry  industry  complexes  produced  an  estimated  2.3  mil- 
lion cubic  meters  of  roundwood  annually  between  1976  and  1988; 
its  twenty-eight  sawmills  cut  about  200,000  cubic  meters  of  wood 
annually  between  1977  and  1988.  Outdated  sawmills,  however, 
wasted  raw  materials  and  were  situated  too  far  from  sources  of  raw 
materials.  The  pulp,  paper,  and  fiberboard  industries  enjoyed  lit- 
tle competitive  advantage  and  did  considerable  environmental 
damage.  The  country's  high  dependency  on  wood  for  heating — 
amounting  to  100  percent  of  household  energy  needs  in  moun- 
tainous areas  and  over  90  percent  in  the  cities  in  1991 — contributed 
to  the  overexploitation  of  forests.  Unchecked  cutting  by  people  so 
desperate  for  fuel  that  they  hacked  tree  stumps  to  below  ground 
level  caused  serious  damage  to  woodlands. 

Fisheries 

Albania's  fishing  industry,  which  was  underdeveloped  and  poorly 
managed,  consisted  of  four  state-owned  fishing  enterprises,  sixteen 


139 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

aquaculture  enterprises,  and  two  shellfish  enterprises.  The  govern- 
ment foresaw  little  trouble  in  privatizing  all  of  the  country's  fish- 
ing vessels  but  anticipated  difficulty  in  selling  off  the  three  fish 
canneries  and  the  only  shipyard  servicing  the  fishing  and  coastal 
transportation  fleet.  World  Bank  and  European  Community 
economists  reported  that  Albania's  fishing  industry  had  good  poten- 
tial to  generate  export  earnings  because  prices  in  the  nearby  Greek 
and  Italian  markets  were  many  times  higher  than  those  in  the  Al- 
banian market.  Albania's  coastal  waters  were  overfished,  and  for- 
eign economists  advised  the  Albanian  government  to  protect  its 
piscine  resources  from  illegal  exploitation  by  vessels  from  other  Eu- 
ropean countries. 

Industry 

Albania's  rigid  Stalinists  considered  heavy  industry  the  force  driv- 
ing all  developed  economies.  For  years,  the  government  fed  the 
lion's  share  of  investment  money  and  technology  imports  to  in- 
dustrial behemoths,  which  had  domestic  monopolies  and  too  often 
lacked  distinct  objectives.  Especially  from  the  1960s  onward,  the 
government  spent  most  investment  funds  on  the  production  of 
minerals  for  export  and  the  manufacture  of  import-substitution 
products.  The  effort  succeeded  in  expanding  and  diversifying  Al- 
bania's industrial  sector,  but  without  the  discipline  imposed  by  a 
free  market;  the  resulting  creation  was  inefficient  and  structurally 
distorted  (see  table  8;  table  9,  Appendix).  In  the  early  1990s,  in- 
dustry accounted  for  about  40  percent  of  Albania's  GDP  and  em- 
ployed about  25  percent  of  the  nation's  work  force.  The  industrial 
sector's  most  important  branches  were  food  products,  energy  and 
petroleum  production,  mining,  light  industry,  and  engineering. 
All  of  Albania's  industrial  branches  suffered  from  obsolete  equip- 
ment, inadequate  infrastructure,  and  low  levels  of  worker  skill  and 
motivation.  Shortages  of  energy,  spare  parts,  and  raw  materials 
stopped  industrial  production  almost  entirely  in  the  early  1990s. 

Energy  and  Natural  Resources 

Since  classical  times,  people  have  exploited  the  fossil-fuel  and 
mineral  deposits  present  in  the  lands  that  now  constitute  Albania. 
Petroleum,  natural  gas,  coal,  and  asphalt  lie  in  the  sedimentary 
rock  formations  of  the  country's  southwestern  regions.  The  pre- 
dominantly igneous  formations  of  the  northern  mountains  yield 
chromite,  ferronickel,  copper,  and  cobalt.  Albania  also  has  deposits 
of  phosphorite,  bauxite,  gold,  silver,  kaolin,  clay,  asbestos,  magne- 
site,  dolomite,  and  gypsum.  Salt  is  abundant.  About  70  percent 
of  Albania's  territory  is  about  300  meters  above  sea  level,  twice 


140 


A  power  plant  for  a  textile  mill  complex  on  the 

outskirts  of  Tiran'e 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 
Elbasan  Steel  Combine 
Courtesy  Fred  Conrad 


141 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  average  elevation  of  Europe.  Jagged  limestone  peaks  rise  to 
over  2,700  meters.  These  great  heights,  combined  with  normally 
abundant  highland  rainfall,  facilitate  the  production  of  hydroelec- 
tric power  along  rivers. 

With  its  significant  petroleum  and  natural-gas  reserves,  coal 
deposits,  and  hydroelectric-power  capacity,  Albania  has  the  poten- 
tial to  produce  enough  energy  for  domestic  consumption  and  ex- 
port fuels  and  electric  power.  Mismanagement  led  to  production 
shortfalls  in  the  early  1990s,  however,  and  forced  the  government 
to  import  both  petroleum  and  electric  power.  For  years  after  produc- 
tion dropped  in  the  late  1970s,  Albania's  government  considered 
statistics  on  the  performance  of  its  petroleum  industry  a  state  secret; 
as  a  consequence,  data  on  the  oil  industry  vary  radically  (see  table 
10).  Known  petroleum  reserves  at  existing  Albanian  drill  sites  to- 
taled about  200  million  tons,  but  in  1991  recoverable  stocks  amount- 
ed to  only  25  million  tons.  Albania's  petroleum  reserves  generally 
were  located  in  the  tertiary  layers  in  southwestern  Albania,  mainly 
in  the  triangle- shaped  region  delimited  by  Vlore,  Berat,  and  Durres. 
The  principal  petroleum  reserves  were  in  the  valley  of  the  lower 
Devoll;  in  the  valley  of  the  Gjanice  near  Patos  in  the  southwest, 
where  they  lay  in  sandy  Middle  or  Upper  Miocene  layers;  and  in 
Marinez,  between  Kugove  and  Fier.  Petroleum  was  refined  in 
Ballsh,  near  Berat;  Cerrik  near  Elbasan;  and  Kucove. 

In  the  1980s,  the  petroleum  and  bitumen  enterprises  employed 
10  percent  of  Albania's  industrial  work  force,  controlled  25  per- 
cent of  the  country's  industrial  capital,  and  received  almost  33  per- 
cent of  its  industrial  investment  funds.  Nevertheless,  the  industry's 
share  of  the  country's  gross  industrial  production  fell  from  8.1  per- 
cent in  1980  to  6.6  percent  in  1982  and  perhaps  as  little  as  5  per- 
cent in  1985.  Albania  produced  only  between  1.5  million  tons  and 
2.1  million  tons  of  petroleum  annually  in  the  1970s,  according  to 
reliable  estimates.  Output  sagged  further  during  the  1980s  when 
extraction  became  increasingly  difficult.  Albania's  wells  pumped 
only  1.2  million  tons  of  petroleum  in  1990.  At  some  sites,  obsolete 
drilling  equipment  was  extracting  only  12  percent  of  the  available 
petroleum  in  situations  where  modern  drilling  and  pumping  equip- 
ment would  permit  the  extraction  of  as  much  as  40  percent. 

Petroleum  was  the  first  industry  to  attract  direct  foreign  invest- 
ment after  the  communist  economic  system  broke  down.  In  1990 
and  1991,  the  Albanian  Petroleum  and  Gas  Directorate  entered 
into  negotiations  with  foreign  drilling  and  exploration  firms  for  on- 
shore and  offshore  prospecting.  In  March  1991,  the  Albanian 
government  and  a  German  company,  Denimex,  signed  a  US$500 


142 


The  Economy 


million  contract  for  seismological  studies,  well  drilling,  and  produc- 
tion preparation.  Albania  also  negotiated  exploration  contracts  with 
Agip  of  Italy  and  Occidental  Petroleum,  Chevron,  and  Hamilton 
Oil  of  the  United  States. 

Albania's  known  natural-gas  reserves  have  been  estimated  at 
22,400  million  cubic  meters  and  lie  mainly  in  the  Kucove  and  Pa- 
tos  areas.  The  country's  wells  pumped  about  600,000  cubic  meters 
of  natural  gas  annually  during  the  late  1980s.  Fertilizer  plants  con- 
sumed about  40  percent  of  Albania's  annual  natural-gas  produc- 
tion; power  stations  consumed  about  another  15  percent.  Planners 
projected  an  increase  in  natural-gas  production  to  about  1.1  mil- 
lion cubic  meters  per  year  by  1995,  but  output  tumbled  during 
the  first  quarter  of  1991. 

Albania's  unprofitable  coal  mines  produced  about  2.1  million 
tons  in  1987.  The  coal,  mainly  lignite  with  a  low  calorific  value, 
was  being  mined  mainly  in  central  Albania  near  Valias,  Manez, 
and  Krrabe;  near  Korce  at  Mborje  and  Drenove;  in  northern  Tepe- 
lene  at  Memaliaj;  and  in  Alarup  to  the  south  of  Lake  Ohrid.  Coal 
washeries  were  located  at  Valias  and  Memaliaj .  Albania  imported 
about  200,000  tons  of  coke  per  year  from  Poland  for  its  metalworks. 
Conditions  inside  Albania's  coal  mines  were  deplorable,  with  much 
of  the  work  done  by  manual  labor.  Albania  used  most  of  its  coal 
to  generate  electric  power. 

About  80  percent  of  Albania's  electric  power  came  from  a  sys- 
tem of  hydroelectric  dams  built  after  1947  and  driven  by  several 
rivers  that  normally  carried  abundant  rainfall.  Electric  power  output 
was  estimated  by  Albanian  officials  at  3,984,000  megawatt  hours 
in  1988.  Outfitted  with  French-built  turbines,  Albania's  largest  pow- 
er station,  the  Koman  hydroelectric  plant  on  the  Drin  River,  had 
a  capacity  of  about  600  megawatts.  The  hydroelectric  stations  at 
Fierze  and  Dejas,  also  on  the  Drin  River,  had  capacities  of  500 
megawatts  and  250  megawatts,  respectively,  and  used  Chinese-built 
turbines.  Albania  had  no  capacity  to  generate  nuclear  power,  but 
in  the  early  1990s  a  research  nuclear  reactor  was  reportedly  under 
construction  with  United  Nations  funds.  In  1972  high-tension  trans- 
mission lines  linked  Albania's  power  grid  with  Yugoslavia's  dis- 
tribution system.  Albania's  first  400-kilovolt  high-tension  line 
carried  power  from  Elbasan  over  the  mountains  to  Korge,  where 
a  220-kilovolt  line  carried  it  to  Greece. 

Droughts  in  the  late  1980s  and  in  1990  brought  an  energy  crisis 
and  a  sharp  drop  in  earnings  from  electric-power  exports.  In  1991 
heavy  rainfall  allowed  Albania  to  resume  electric-power  exports 
to  Yugoslavia  and  Greece.  In  the  early  1990s,  labor  strikes  and 
transformer  burnouts — caused  by  the  overloading  of  circuits  when 


143 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


many  Albanians  turned  to  electricity  to  heat  apartments  after  other 
fuel  supplies  ran  out — regularly  resulted  in  blackouts  in  towns  across 
the  country,  and  even  sections  of  Tirane,  producing  disruption  for 
months  at  a  time.  Although  the  electrical  grid  reached  rural  areas 
by  1970,  the  amount  of  power  per  household  in  farm  areas  was 
limited  to  200  watts,  only  enough  to  power  light  bulbs.  The  chaos 
caused  by  economic  collapse  led  to  the  destruction  of  about  25  per- 
cent of  Albania's  30,000  kilometer  power-distribution  network. 

Albania's  mineral  resources  are  located  primarily  in  the  moun- 
tainous northern  half  of  the  country.  Albanian  miners  extract  mainly 
chromium  ore,  ferronickel,  copper,  bitumen,  and  salt.  Obsolete 
equipment  and  mining  techniques  have  hampered  Albania's  at- 
tempts to  capitalize  on  its  mineral  wealth.  High  extraction  and 
smelting  costs,  as  well  as  Albania's  overall  economic  collapse,  have 
forced  mine  and  plant  closures.  The  government  repeatedly  has 
promised  to  take  steps  to  reopen  mines. 

Some  production  estimates  placed  Albania  just  behind  South 
Africa  and  the  former  Soviet  Union  in  the  output  of  chromite,  or 
chromium  ore,  which  is  vital  to  the  production  of  stainless  steel. 
Foreign  studies  estimated  that  Albania  had  more  than  20  million 
tons  of  chromite  reserves,  located  mainly  near  the  towns  of  Korce, 
Mat,  Elbasan,  and  Kukes.  Export  of  chrome  and  chromium 
products  provided  one  of  Albania's  most  important  sources  of  hard- 
currency  income.  Albania's  chromite  industry,  however,  consis- 
tently failed  to  meet  plan  targets  and  came  under  severe  criticism 
in  the  waning  years  of  the  communist  regime.  Estimates  for  chro- 
mite output  during  1989  ranged  from  500,000  to  900,000  tons.  The 
drought-related  power  cuts  in  1990  and  economic  chaos  in  1991 
forced  the  closing  of  ferrochrome  enterprises  at  Burrel  and  Elba- 
san, and  the  government  desperately  sought  sources  of  foreign  cap- 
ital to  invest  in  technological  improvements. 

Albania's  high-grade  chromite  reserves  had  been  largely  exhaust- 
ed by  1990.  The  poor  quality  of  the  remaining  ore  accounted  for 
the  country's  worsening  position  in  world  markets.  Impurities 
present  in  Albania's  highest-grade  chrome  were  largely  the  by- 
product of  poor  mining  and  smelting  techniques  and  the  use  of  an- 
tiquated Chinese  equipment.  The  country's  chromium  industry 
also  suffered  because  of  inadequate  transportation  facilities.  In  the 
late  1980s,  construction  was  under  way  on  a  rail  link  connecting 
the  main  chromium-ore  production  center  at  Bulqize,  in  central 
Albania  with  the  port  of  Durres  and  the  main  line  to  Yugoslavia. 
In  the  late  1980s,  Albania  exported  its  chrome  products  mainly 
to  Sweden,  the  United  States,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany),  Yugoslavia,  and  other  East  European  countries. 


144 


A  dilapidated  industrial 
plant  on  the  main  road 
between  the  Yugoslav 
border  and  Tiran'e 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


Repairman  in  front 
of  the  cotton  gin  at  a 
textile  plant  in  the 
central  coastal  region 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


145 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

In  1980  Albanian  chrome  sales  to  the  United  States  accounted  for 
about  75  percent  of  the  approximately  US$20  million  in  trade  be- 
tween the  two  countries.  Despite  its  reported  profitability,  the  chro- 
mium industry  suffered  from  a  lack  of  worker  incentive  because 
miners  frequently  went  unpaid.  In  1991  one  of  Albania's  top 
economists  revealed  that  the  country  had  never  earned  more  than 
US$60  million  a  year  from  chrome  exports. 

Albania  also  produced  copper,  iron,  and  nickel.  The  main  cop- 
per deposits,  estimated  at  about  5  million  tons,  were  located  near 
the  northern  towns  of  Puke,  Kukes,  and  Shkoder.  During  the  1980s, 
although  the  quality  of  copper  ores  was  generally  low,  copper  was 
the  most  successful  industry  in  Albania's  mineral-extraction  sec- 
tor. Copper  production  rose  from  about  11,500  tons  in  1980  to 
17,000  tons  in  1988.  The  government  aimed  to  export  copper  in 
a  processed  form  and  built  smelters  at  Rubik,  Kukes,  and  Lac. 
The  industry's  product  mix  included  blister  copper,  copper  wire, 
copper  sulfate,  and  alloys.  Albania's  principal  iron  ore  deposits, 
estimated  at  20  million  tons  in  the  1930s,  were  located  near 
Pogradec,  Kukes,  Shkoder,  and  Peshkopi.  The  Elbasan  Steel  Com- 
bine was  Albania's  largest  industrial  complex.  In  operation  since 
1966,  the  steelworks  had  obsolete  Chinese  equipment.  Annual  nickel 
output  ranged  from  7,200  to  9,000  tons  in  the  1980s. 

Albanian  bitumen  and  asphalt  deposits  were  located  near  the 
town  of  Selenice  and  in  the  Vjose  River  valley.  Bitumen  and  asphalt 
production  rose  significantly  after  World  War  II,  and  most  of  the 
output  was  used  for  paving  and  waterproofing  materials  and  in 
the  manufacturing  of  insulators  and  roofing  shingles.  Miners  had 
worked  the  Selenice  deposits  continuously  for  centuries  before  a 
lack  of  soap,  boots,  and  basic  equipment  forced  operations  to  cease 
when  the  centrally  planned  economy  stalled.  Geologists  estimated 
that  the  Selenice  deposits  would  not  be  exhausted  until  several  de- 
cades into  the  twenty-first  century  at  normal  production  rates.  Al- 
bania also  possessed  abundant  deposits  of  salt,  found  near  Kavaje 
and  Vlore.  Limestone,  a  principal  raw  material  for  Albania's  con- 
struction industry,  was  quarried  throughout  the  country. 

Manufacturing 

Chemicals 

Albania's  chemical  industry  was  geared  mainly  toward  produc- 
ing agrochemicals  and  chemicals  for  minerals  processing.  During 
the  effort  to  achieve  economic  self-reliance  in  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
Albania's  government  frantically  tried  to  increase  fertilizer  output 
at  plants  in  Kruje  and  Fier,  which  produced  nitrogen  and  phosphate 


146 


The  Economy 


from  imported  rock  phosphate.  Nitrogen  and  phosphate  fertilizer 
production  totaled  about  350  billion  tons  between  1985  and  1990. 
A  lack  of  spare  parts  and  raw  materials,  especially  natural  gas,  halt- 
ed production  in  mid- 1991 .  Western  economists  estimated  that  the 
US$3  million  needed  for  the  main  phosphate  plants'  rehabilita- 
tion might  be  too  high  a  price  to  pay  because  domestic  deposits 
of  key  raw  materials  were  projected  to  last  only  three  to  five  years 
at  normal  production  rates.  One  of  Albania's  two  ammonia-urea 
plants  planned  to  restart  operations  in  1992,  but  it  desperately  need- 
ed spare  parts  and  environmental  protection  equipment.  The  coun- 
try's lone  pesticide  plant,  which  did  not  stop  producing  DDT  until 
1982,  made  lindane  as  well  as  products  based  on  sulfur,  zinc,  cop- 
per, and  mercury.  In  1991  the  facility  was  working  at  less  than 
10  percent  of  capacity,  and  production  was  not  likely  to  be  stepped 
up  because  the  plant  was  in  poor  condition  and  environmentally 
unsafe.  Other  chemical  enterprises  included  a  plastics-fabrication 
facility  at  Lushnje,  a  rubber  and  plastics  works  at  Durres,  and  a 
paint  and  pigment  factory  in  Tirane. 

Engineering 

During  Albania's  long  effort  to  achieve  autarky,  economic  plan- 
ners focused  the  country's  engineering  industry  on  producing  tools, 
equipment,  and  spare  parts  for  machinery  that  would  substitute 
for  imports.  However,  product  standards  suffered  because  of  the 
poor  quality  of  domestically  produced  materials,  especially  steel, 
and  because  of  Albania's  complete  isolation  from  world  techno- 
logical advances.  The  continuing  operation  of  machinery  long  ob- 
solete in  the  outside  world,  including  a  textile  mill  in  Tirane 
reminiscent  of  sweatshops  in  the  turn-of-the-century  United  States, 
was  a  testament  to  the  ingenuity  of  the  workers  in  the  engineering 
branch  who  fabricated  spare  parts.  In  addition  to  spare  parts,  several 
plants  produced  finished  products,  including  the  Enver  Hoxha  Auto 
and  Tractor  Plant  in  Tirane,  which  produced  7 5 -horsepower  trac- 
tors, refrigerator  compressors,  and  other  products;  the  Drini  En- 
gineering Works  in  Shkoder,  which  turned  out  heavy  machinery; 
the  Durres  shipyards  and  agricultural  machinery  works;  a  precision- 
tool  factory  in  Korce;  and  a  textile  equipment  works  in  Tirane. 

Light  Industry 

Statistics  released  in  1989  showed  that  the  light  industry  sector 
met  about  85  percent  of  domestic  demand  for  consumer  goods  and 
provided  about  22  percent  of  the  state's  revenue.  The  sector's  output 
increased  markedly  from  1960  to  1990.  Albanian  light  industry  in- 
cluded textile  plants,  shoe  factories,  bicycle  assembly  plants,  and 


147 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

a  host  of  other  factories.  The  communist  government  scattered  tex- 
tile plants  throughout  the  country.  The  largest  textile  factory,  the 
Tirane  Textile  Combine — formerly  called  the  Stalin  Textile  Com- 
bine because  it  was  built  with  Soviet  aid — was  shut  down  frequently 
by  workers  striking  for  higher  wages,  better  local  transportation, 
and  a  regular  supply  of  steam  to  run  their  antiquated  equipment. 
In  the  early  1990s,  Greek  businessmen  began  setting  up  clothing 
and  yarn  factories  in  Gjirokaster  and  Sarande.  Also,  many  Alba- 
nian businessmen  established  workshops  producing  handicrafts, 
carpets,  weavings,  and  souvenirs  for  tourist  shops  and  export.  Al- 
bania's light  industry  branch  also  included  nineteen  furniture  fac- 
tories, whose  production  was  slashed  to  15  percent  of  capacity  or 
less  in  1991  because  of  a  lack  of  material  inputs. 

Food  Processing 

In  the  early  1990s,  Albania's  food-processing  industry  had  at 
least  one  processing  facility  for  the  cereal,  meat,  and  dairy  branches 
in  each  of  the  country's  twenty-six  administrative  districts  without 
regard  to  efficiency  or  economies  of  scale.  These  facilities,  which 
employed  about  25,000  people,  relied  on  the  Ministry  of  Light  In- 
dustry to  allocate  raw  materials,  arrange  transportation,  and  market 
products.  Years  of  depreciation  and  inadequate  investment  had  left 
the  200  largest  food-processing  enterprises  and  about  750  smaller 
plants  with  obsolete,  broken-down  equipment.  As  a  result,  managers 
had  little  experience  in  obtaining  materials  or  marketing,  and  the 
plants  functioned  inefficiently  and  produced  low-quality  goods. 
Minimal  hygiene  and  sanitation  standards  went  unmet.  Shortages 
of  raw  materials  and  spare  parts,  along  with  transportation 
problems,  forced  many  food-processing  enterprises  to  curtail  oper- 
ations; in  1991  alone,  output  fell  35  percent  from  the  previous  year. 
When  the  government  loosened  controls  on  food  and  vegetable 
prices  in  1991,  the  official  marketing  network  collapsed,  cutting 
off  the  supply  of  raw  materials  to  the  country's  thirty-one  canner- 
ies. As  unofficial  prices  rose,  supply  flows  to  the  twenty-seven  state- 
owned  slaughterhouses  dried  up.  The  thirty-two  district-level  and 
550  village  dairies  survived  only  by  paying  unofficial  prices  for  milk 
and  cooperating  with  private  traders. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Albania's  thirty-eight  flour  mills  normally 
employed  between  thirteen  and  257  people  and  could  grind  be- 
tween eight  tons  and  160  tons  of  flour  per  day.  The  seventy  state- 
owned  bakeries  in  urban  areas  produced  about  370,000  tons  of 
bread  annually.  The  government  privatized  many  of  the  country's 
village  bakeries,  which  had  a  200,000-ton  total  annual  production 
capacity.  Albania's  lone  modern  yeast  factory  could  produce  about 


148 


Butcher  at  work 
in  a  private 
shop  in  central 
Tirane,  1991 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


600  tons  annually,  which  was  inadequate  to  meet  the  country's 
needs.  Albania  had  ten  pasta  factories  and  two  starch  factories.  Free- 
market  prices  four  times  higher  than  official  levels  left  state-owned 
mills  and  bakeries  unable  to  compete  with  private  millers  and  bakers 
for  available  grain  supplies. 

State-farm  managers  and  private  farmers  radically  reduced  the 
amount  of  hectarage  producing  oilseed,  cotton,  and  tobacco  be- 
cause state  prices  were  low  and  there  were  no  private  markets  offer- 
ing higher  prices.  Tobacco  and  sugar-beet  production  decreased 
less  drastically  because  state  enterprises,  including  the  Durres  tobac- 
co factory  and  the  country's  only  sugar-beet  refinery,  offered  farm- 
ers advance  purchase  contracts  at  relatively  attractive  prices. 
Albania's  vegetable-oil  industry  consisted  of  twenty-seven  olive- 
oil  plants  capable  of  pressing  755  tons  of  olives  daily;  eleven 
sunflower-oil  plants  with  a  daily  capacity  of  262  tons  of  seeds;  seven- 
teen oil-extraction  plants  with  a  daily  capacity  of  270  tons  of  olive, 
cotton-seed,  corn,  and  sunflower  pulp;  and  ten  obsolete  oil-refinery 
units  with  a  daily  capacity  of  110  tons  of  sunflower  oil  and  soya 
oil.  Town  and  district  plants  botded  edible  oils.  The  country  also 
had  four  soap  factories  and  one  margarine  plant. 

Construction 

In  the  late  1980s,  Albania's  construction  enterprises,  which  con- 
centrated mostly  on  adding  to  the  country's  housing  stock  and 


149 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


industrial  capacity,  built  about  14,000  dwellings  annually.  Uncer- 
tainties about  landownership  and  problems  with  supplies  of  build- 
ing materials,  financing,  and  wages  halted  the  construction  industry 
in  the  early  1990s.  The  government  legalized  private  construction 
firms,  and  private  companies  and  individuals  began  applying  to 
the  Ministry  of  Construction  for  building  permits  soon  after  ques- 
tions concerning  property  ownership  were  resolved.  Reports  in  the 
national  press  included  complaints  that  many  people  were  construct- 
ing homes  and  buildings  on  property  they  did  not  own  or  on  land 
better  suited  to  mechanized  agriculture.  The  government  proposed 
a  draft  law  to  govern  zoning  and  construction  standards. 

Cement  factories  were  located  in  Elbasan  and  Vlore,  and  there 
was  a  production  facility  for  prefabricated  concrete  structures  in 
Tirane.  Brick  kilns  were  located  in  Tirane,  Elbasan,  Korce, 
Lushnje,  Dibre,  and  Fier. 

Environmental  Problems 

The  communist  regime's  policy  of  developing  heavy  industry 
at  all  costs  caused  significant  environmental  problems.  Air  and 
water  pollution  went  unchecked.  Despite  the  scarcity  of  traffic,  a 
pall  of  diesel  fumes  lingered  over  the  country's  main  roads,  a  by- 
product of  the  poorly  refined  fuel  that  powered  Albania's  trucks 
and  buses.  The  Elbasan  Steel  Combine,  Albania's  largest  indus- 
trial complex,  represented  a  typical  industrial  polluter.  Proclaimed 
a  symbol  of  Albania's  "  second  liberation"  when  it  became  opera- 
tional in  1966,  the  steelworks  was  equipped  with  1950s- vintage 
Chinese  furnaces  that  filled  the  Shkumbin  River  valley  with  smoke, 
poisonous  gases,  and  orange-colored  particulate.  The  cyanic  acid, 
ammonia,  phenol,  and  other  pollutants  that  the  mill  dumped  into 
the  river  itself  rendered  it  practically  lifeless.  A  United  Nations  team 
recommended  closing  the  facility  because  of  the  pollution  problem. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  rock-strewn  roadways,  unstable  rail  lines, 
and  obsolete  telephone  network  crisscrossing  Albania  represented 
the  remnants  of  the  marked  improvements  that  were  made  after 
World  War  II.  Enver  Hoxha's  xenophobia  and  lust  for  control  had 
kept  Albania  isolated,  however,  as  the  communications  revolution 
transformed  the  wider  world  into  a  global  village.  Even  internal 
travel  amounted  to  something  of  a  luxury  for  many  Albanians  dur- 
ing communism's  ascendancy.  For  years,  peasants  needed  special 
passes  to  visit  nearby  districts,  and  until  1990  the  government 
banned  private  ownership  of  automobiles.  Urban  mass  transit  con- 
sisted primarily  of  bus  lines  for  ferrying  workers  between  home 


150 


The  Economy 


and  work.  Breakdowns  in  Tirane's  bus  lines  sometimes  forced  em- 
ployees to  walk  to  work  or  pay  for  rides  in  the  beds  of  passing  trucks. 
The  communications  system  sustained  severe  damage  in  the  chaos 
of  the  economic  collapse  as  people  ripped  down  telephone  lines  to 
use  as  fencing.  Despite  generally  deteriorating  conditions,  the  im- 
portation of  fleets  of  used  cars  and  buses  and  popular  hunger  for 
contact  with  the  outside  world  raised  hopes  that  matters  would 
improve. 

Road  Transportation 

In  1987  Albania  had  about  6,700  kilometers  of  paved  roads  and 
between  9,000  and  about  15,000  kilometers  of  other  roads  suita- 
ble for  motor  vehicles  (see  fig.  7).  The  total  length  of  Albania's 
roads  had  more  than  doubled  in  about  three  decades,  and  by  the 
1980s  almost  all  of  the  country's  remote  mountain  areas  were  con- 
nected, at  least  by  dirt  roads,  with  the  capital  city  and  ports.  The 
country's  roads,  however,  were  generally  narrow,  poorly  marked, 
pocked  with  holes,  and  in  the  early  1990s  often  crowded  with  pedes- 
trians and  people  riding  mules,  bicycles,  and  horse-drawn  carts. 
Even  in  tiny  villages,  hundreds  of  people  of  all  ages  gathered  daily 
along  main  roads  waving  their  arms  seeking  rides,  and  gangs  of 
children  often  blocked  rural  highways  hoping  to  coax  foreign  travel- 
ers into  tossing  them  candy.  Heavy  snowfalls  cut  off  some  moun- 
tain areas  for  weeks  at  a  time.  Central  government  funding  of  local 
road  maintenance  effectively  ended  in  1991,  and  the  breakdown 
of  repair  vehicles  because  of  a  lack  of  spare  parts  threatened  to  close 
access  to  some  remote  areas.  A  group  of  Greek  construction  com- 
panies signed  a  protocol  with  the  Albanian  government  in  July  1990 
to  build  a  200-kilometer  road  across  the  southern  part  of  the  coun- 
try, extending  from  the  Albanian-Greek  border  to  Durres.  The 
project  was  scheduled  to  last  four  years  and  cost  US$500  million. 

Despite  the  appalling  quality  of  Albania's  roads,  most  of  the  coun- 
try's freight  was  conveyed  over  them  in  a  fleet  of  about  15,000 
smoke-belching  trucks.  According  to  official  figures,  in  1987  Al- 
bania's roadways  carried  about  66  percent  of  the  country's  total 
freight  tonnage.  In  1991  the  Albanian  government  lifted  the 
decades-old  ban  on  private-vehicle  ownership.  The  country's  roads, 
once  almost  devoid  of  motor  traffic,  began  filling  up  with  reckless- 
ly driven  cars  that  had  been  snapped  up  in  used-car  lots  across 
Europe.  Car  imports  numbered  about  1,500  per  month,  and  a 
black-market  car  lot  began  operating  just  off  Tirane's  main  square. 
Traffic  in  the  capital  remained  light,  but  traffic  lights  and  other 
control  devices  were  urgently  needed  to  deal  with  the  multiplying 
number  of  privately  owned  cars.  Albanian  entrepreneurs  also 


151 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

imported  used  Greek  buses  and  started  carrying  passengers  on  in- 
tercity routes  that  did  not  exist  or  had  been  poorly  serviced  during 
the  communist  era.  Gangs  of  hijackers  and  thieves,  who  preyed 
on  truck  and  automobile  traffic,  made  road  travel  hazardous  in 
some  regions. 

Railroads 

In  1991  Albania's  509  kilometers  of  standard- gauge  rail  lines 
linked  Shkoder  with  Durres,  Tirane,  Elbasan,  Pogradec,  Ballsh, 
and  Vlore.  The  country's  only  international  rail  link,  opened  in 
1986,  connected  Shkoder  with  Yugoslavia's  rail  system.  Albania's 
communist  government  focused  on  developing  new  rail  lines  to  serve 
mining  regions  and  the  coastal  plain.  According  to  official  figures, 
in  1987  and  1988  Albania's  railroad  carried  about  33  percent  of 
the  country's  total  freight  tonnage  for  that  period.  The  opening 
of  the  rail  link  with  Yugoslavia  facilitated  the  movement  of  goods 
to  Europe,  and  Yugoslav  railroads  reportedly  shipped  174,300  tons 
of  Albanian  goods  in  the  first  half  of  1990,  a  19.4  percent  increase 
over  the  first  half  of  1989.  None  of  Albania's  railroads  was  electri- 
fied. In  1991  vandals  and  thieves  caused  so  much  damage  to  the 
tracks  and  rolling  stock  that  the  rail  system's  transport  capacity 
was  cut  in  half;  operations  later  ceased  altogether. 

Air  Transportation 

In  1977  Albania's  government  signed  an  agreement  with  Greece, 
opening  the  country's  first  air  links  with  noncommunist  Europe. 
By  1991  Tirane  had  air  links  with  many  major  European  cities, 
including  Paris,  Rome,  Zurich,  Vienna,  and  Budapest.  Tirane  was 
served  by  a  small  airport  located  twenty-eight  kilometers  from  the 
capital  at  the  village  of  Rinas.  Albania  had  no  regular  domestic 
air  service.  A  Franco- Albanian  joint  venture  launched  Albania's 
first  private  airline,  Ada  Air,  in  1991 .  The  company  offered  flights 
in  a  thirty-six-passenger  airplane  four  days  each  week  between  Ti- 
rane and  Bari,  Italy,  and  a  charter  service  for  domestic  and  inter- 
national destinations. 

Water  Transportation 

Albania's  main  seaports  are  Durres,  Vlore,  Sarande,  and  Sheng- 
jin.  By  1983  there  was  regular  ferry,  freight,  and  passenger  ser- 
vice from  Durres  to  Trieste,  Italy.  In  1988  ferry  service  was  estab- 
lished between  Sarande  and  the  Greek  island  of  Corfu.  A  regular 
lake  ferry  linked  the  Macedonian  town  of  Ohrid  with  Pogradec. 
The  estimated  total  displacement  of  Albania's  merchant  fleet  was 
56,000  tons  in  1986.  The  limited  capacity  of  the  wharves  at  Durres 


152 


The  Economy 

caused  severe  bottlenecks  in  the  distribution  of  foreign  food  aid 
in  1991. 

Telecommunications 

Until  1990  Albania  was  one  of  the  world's  most  isolated  and  con- 
trolled countries,  and  installation  and  maintenance  of  a  modern 
system  of  international  and  domestic  telecommunications  was 
precluded.  Callers  previously  needed  operator  assistance  even  to 
make  domestic  long-distance  calls.  Albania's  telephone  density  was 
the  lowest  in  Europe,  at  1.4  units  for  every  100  inhabitants.  Ti- 
rane accounted  for  about  13,000  of  the  country's  42,000  direct  lines; 
Durres,  the  main  port  city,  ranked  second  with  2,000  lines;  the 
rest  were  concentrated  in  Shkoder,  Elbasan,  Vlore,  Gjirokaster, 
and  other  towns.  At  one  time,  each  village  had  a  telephone  but 
during  the  land  redistribution  of  the  early  1990s  peasants  knocked 
out  service  to  about  1 ,000  villages  by  removing  telephone  wire  for 
fencing.  Most  of  Albania's  telephones  were  obsolete,  low-quality 
East  European  models,  some  dating  from  the  1940s;  workers  at 
a  Tirane  factory  assembled  a  small  number  of  telephones  from 
Italian  parts.  In  the  early  1990s,  Albania  had  only  240  microwave 
circuits  to  Italy  and  180  to  Greece  carrying  international  calls.  The 
Albanian  telephone  company  had  also  installed  two  U-20  Italtel 
digital  exchanges.  The  exchange  in  Tirane  handled  international, 
national,  and  local  calls;  the  Durres  exchange  handled  only  local 
calls.  Two  United  States  firms  handled  direct-dial  calls  from  the 
United  States  to  Tirane. 

The  communist  regime  used  radio  and  television  for  propagan- 
da purposes.  In  1992  the  Albanian  government  owned  and  oper- 
ated seventeen  AM  radio  stations  and  one  FM  station  that  broadcast 
two  national  programs  and  various  regional  and  local  programs. 
An  estimated  514,000  Albanians  had  radio  receivers  in  1987,  ac- 
cording to  the  United  States  government.  Nine  television  stations, 
also  controlled  by  the  communist  regime,  broadcast  to  the  approx- 
imately 255,000  television  sets  owned  by  Albanians  in  1987. 
Although  the  regime  gave  minimal  support  to  domestic  commu- 
nications, it  provided  for  an  extensive  external  shortwave  and 
medium- wave  system.  Programs  were  broadcast  in  eight  foreign 
languages,  in  addition  to  Albanian,  and  reached  Africa,  the  Mid- 
dle East,  North  America,  South  America,  and  Europe.  Albania's 
external  broadcast  service  was  one  of  the  largest  such  services  in 
the  world.  The  programming  was  heavily  propagandist,  accord- 
ing to  Western  observers. 


155 


154 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Retail  Trade,  Services,  and  Tourism 

Retail  shops  and  service  businesses  opened  all  over  Albania  after 
the  communists  surrendered  control  of  domestic  trade  and  released 
their  stranglehold  on  private  economic  initiative.  Thousands  of  fruit 
and  vegetable  mongers  converged  on  the  streets  of  towns  and  cit- 
ies. Private  entrepreneurs  bought  out  formerly  state-run  stores  and 
restaurants  and  threw  open  the  doors  to  new  shops  and  workrooms. 
Import  restrictions  and  price  controls  on  food  stimulated  a  lively 
black  market.  The  Albanian  Stalinists'  aversion  to  the  outside  world 
had  stunted  the  development  of  a  tourism  industry.  From  1991, 
however,  the  government  worked  desperately  to  attract  foreign 
visitors  to  replenish  its  hard-currency  coffers. 

Retail  Trade  and  Services 

Albania's  militaristic  supply  distribution  system  had  litde  in  com- 
mon with  the  retail  trade  sector  in  the  capitalist  world  before  1990. 
The  state  fixed  prices,  determined  which  goods  would  appear  on 
store  shelves,  and  paid  shop  managers  and  clerks  set  salaries.  The 
distribution  system  grew  considerably  after  World  War  II,  with 
the  ratio  of  shops  to  inhabitants  increasing  from  1:896  in  1950  to 
1:278  in  1988.  There  were  two  supply  networks:  one  operated 
direcdy  by  the  state,  the  other  administered  by  local  collectives  under 
state  supervision.  The  state-run  supply  network  carried  a  narrow 
range  of  consumer  goods  that  were,  except  in  rare  cases,  domesti- 
cally produced.  The  Ministry  of  Domestic  Trade  controlled  about 
85  percent  of  the  state  network.  The  balance  fell  under  the  juris- 
diction of  the  Ministry  of  the  Communal  Economy,  which  managed 
repair  and  other  workshops;  the  Ministry  of  Health,  which  oper- 
ated pharmacies;  and  the  Ministry  of  Education,  which  ran  book- 
shops and  art  and  handicraft  stores.  The  collective-run  shops  dealt 
mostly  in  farm-related  products  but  greatly  improved  the  supply 
of  consumer  goods  in  rural  areas. 

The  limited  assortment  and  supply  of  consumer  products  avail- 
able through  retail  outlets  forced  Albanians  to  become  expert  at 
improvising  and  dealing  with  shortages.  The  government  imposed 
a  rationing  system  on  all  consumer  items  in  September  1946  and 
did  not  lift  restrictions  on  nonfood  items  until  1956  and  on  food 
items  until  1957.  Cutoffs  of  Soviet  and  Chinese  aid  and  failures 
in  the  agricultural  sector  led  to  severe  food  shortages  in  the  early 
1960s  and  again  in  the  early  1980s,  when  the  authorities  reimposed 
meat  rationing.  The  rural  population  clearly  depended  to  a  large 
extent  on  the  personal  plots  of  collective-farm  members  for  basic 


156 


Typical  city  bus  waiting  at 
a  turnaround  near  the 
port  city  of  Dunes 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


Old  Albanian  man 
riding  a  donkey 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


157 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


food  items  for  extended  periods.  The  state  distribution  system  failed 
to  compensate  for  the  loss  from  urban  markets  of  produce  grown 
on  personal  plots  after  the  government  restricted  plot  sizes  in  the 
1980s.  Sales  of  food  products  made  up  about  61.5  percent  of  the 
retail  trade  at  about  10,600  shops  in  1983.  The  total  did  not  take 
into  account  the  commerce  in  goods  within  agricultural  coopera- 
tives. Albania's  economic  planners  neglected  the  country's  service 
sector  to  an  extent  unknown  even  in  other  centrally  planned 
economies. 

The  economic  reforms  of  the  early  1990s  broke  down  the  barri- 
ers that  for  decades  had  kept  would-be  private  entrepreneurs  from 
the  retail  marketplace.  At  first,  peasants  began  setting  up  road- 
side fruit  and  vegetables  stands  or  carrying  their  produce  to  mar- 
kets in  the  towns  and  cities.  Later,  small  shops,  restaurants,  and 
workrooms  opened  their  doors  and  began  hiring  workers.  Soon  after 
the  communist  economic  system  broke  down,  the  government  priva- 
tized about  25,000  retail  stores  and  service  enterprises — about  half 
of  the  small  state  enterprises  in  the  retail  and  service  sectors — 
mostly  through  direct  sales  to  workers.  One  businessman,  using 
French  capital,  opened  up  import  shops  and  duty-free  stores  in  the 
country's  largest  hotels.  But  supply  problems  hampered  retail  oper- 
ations. The  new  entrepreneurs  also  encountered  problems  with  local 
officials  who  arbitrarily  imposed  fees  and  license  requirements  based 
on  obsolete  communist-era  laws  or  on  no  laws  at  all.  The  owner 
of  Tirane's  first  private  restaurant,  for  example,  complained  that 
officials  demanded  an  annual  license  fee  equivalent  to  about 
US$10,000.  In  1991  government  officials  were  at  work  on  a  com- 
mercial code. 

Black  Market 

The  food  shortage,  price  controls  on  staple  items,  and  the  ease 
with  which  foreign  food  aid  could  be  diverted  from  normal  distri- 
bution channels  produced  ideal  conditions  for  a  brisk  black  mar- 
ket. Basic  food  items,  which  officially  still  had  government-fixed 
prices,  became  difficult,  and  often  impossible,  to  purchase  at  stores 
but  appeared  at  significantly  higher  prices  on  the  black  market 
alongside  items  pilfered  from  aid  consignments.  Nonfood  items  loot- 
ed from  warehouses  were  available  from  black-market  dealers  at 
many  times  normal  prices.  Fines  for  trafficking  in  smuggled  and 
stolen  goods  were  trivial  compared  to  the  potential  profits. 

Tourism 

No  serious  consideration  was  given  to  developing  a  tourism  in- 
dustry until  several  years  after  Enver  Hoxha's  death.  After  1989 


158 


The  Economy 


the  government  viewed  tourism  as  offering  one  of  the  country's 
best  chances  to  earn  hard  currency  relatively  quickly.  In  1989  and 
1990,  record  numbers  of  tourists  visited  Albania,  although  the  to- 
tals themselves  were  unimpressive.  About  14,400  foreigners  were 
permitted  to  enter  the  country  in  1989  and  about  30,000  in  1990. 
Most  of  these  tourists,  however,  were  single-day  visitors  on  excur- 
sions from  the  Greek  island  of  Corfu.  Albanian  officials  expected 
the  country's  seacoast  and  mountains  to  draw  significantly  great- 
er numbers  of  visitors.  But  potential  tourist  areas,  with  the  possi- 
ble exception  of  Tirane,  lacked  even  the  most  basic  amenities. 
Tirane  itself  lacked  hotel  capacity,  and  there  were  few  foreign  in- 
vestors willing  to  risk  funds  on  an  Albanian  venture.  Furthermore, 
the  country's  seacoast  and  mountains  were  not  sufficiently  pristine 
to  support  predictions  of  a  coming  boom  in  tourism. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 

Enver  Hoxha's  regime  had  maintained  a  legal  stranglehold  on 
the  country's  foreign  commerce  since  World  War  II  through  state- 
run  trading  enterprises.  For  decades  Albania  had  maintained  no 
representative  commercial  offices  in  Western  countries,  and  so  deep 
was  the  Albanian  dictator's  animus  toward  the  Soviet  Union  that 
the  two  countries  carried  on  no  trade  at  all  for  decades  after  their 
split  in  the  early  1960s.  Hoxha  and  his  proteges  created  a  formid- 
able barrier  to  economic  relations  with  the  West  in  1976  by  incor- 
porating into  the  country's  constitution  an  amendment  banning 
borrowing  from  capitalist  countries.  Trade  with  the  West  increased 
after  Hoxha's  death  in  1985,  but  it  was  not  until  the  end  of  the 
decade  that  Albania's  government  surrendered  its  monopoly  on 
foreign  trade.  Lawlessness  and  graft  soon  made  a  mockery  of  almost 
all  legal  controls  on  foreign  transactions.  In  mid- 1991  the  govern- 
ment was  working  to  set  up  a  free-market-based  foreign  trade  sys- 
tem. After  more  than  a  decade  of  "self-reliance,"  during  which 
balanced  trade  had  been  an  essential  element  of  Hoxha's  econom- 
ic doctrine,  the  country's  economic  collapse  forced  its  foreign-trade 
balance  and  balance  of  payments  deeply  into  the  red.  Albanians 
had  to  rely  on  outside  aid  just  to  feed  themselves. 

Foreign  Trade  Organization 

Until  1990  Albania's  government  exercised  a  monopoly  on  for- 
eign trade  and  controlled  it  through  a  highly  centralized  manage- 
ment mechanism.  Following  Stalin's  model,  all  external  transactions 
were  conducted  through  foreign-trade  enterprises  under  the 
guidance  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade.  In  the  1980s,  six  govern- 
ment foreign- trade  enterprises  dealt  in  commodities;  five  covered 


159 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

services;  and  two  more  were  concerned  with  foreign  copyrights  and 
licensing  agreements.  Domestic  firms  paid  for  imported  goods  at 
fixed  wholesale  prices  that  bore  little  relationship  to  world  prices; 
they  also  received  fixed  wholesale  prices  for  exports.  The  state  bank 
retained  all  foreign-currency  earnings  and  covered  any  losses  the 
foreign-trade  enterprises  sustained.  As  a  matter  of  policy,  the  re- 
gime stressed  exports  and  maintained  strictiy  balanced  trade  on 
an  ongoing,  country-by-country  basis  until  1990.  Foreign  compa- 
nies could  win  or  lose  contracts  depending  on  Albania's  current 
trade  balance  with  their  home  country.  Albanian  traders  generally 
purchased  only  vital  goods  and  usually  paid  in  cash.  Western  trade 
restrictions  on  East  European  countries  applied  to  Albania  for  years 
because  the  country  never  formally  withdrew  its  membership  from 
Comecon,  even  though  it  did  not  participate  in  Comecon  activities. 

The  downfall  of  the  centrally  planned  economic  system  brought 
sweeping  changes  to  Albania's  method  of  conducting  foreign  trade. 
The  government  abandoned  its  strict  monopoly  on  foreign  com- 
merce in  August  1990,  when  it  began  allowing  state-owned  enter- 
prises to  conduct  foreign  trade,  retain  foreign-exchange  earnings, 
and  maintain  foreign-currency  accounts.  Private  Albanian  com- 
panies won  the  right  to  carry  on  foreign  trade  a  year  later  when 
the  government  announced  that  domestic  firms  would  be  permit- 
ted to  export  everything  except  certain  food  items.  Strapped  by 
a  balance  of  payments  deficit  and  mounting  external  debt,  the 
authorities  continued,  however,  to  limit  imports.  Tirane  also  im- 
posed customs  duties  ranging  from  10  percent  for  food  to  30  per- 
cent for  new  machinery  and  equipment.  The  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Economic  Relations,  which  replaced  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade, 
attempted  to  stimulate  exports  by  establishing  a  department  for 
trade  consultation  that  provided  data  on  world  prices,  product  avail- 
ability, types  of  trade,  and  other  information  to  state  and  private 
enterprises  as  well  as  to  foreign  firms  interested  in  doing  business 
with  Albania.  The  authorities  planned  to  streamline  the  tariff  sys- 
tem and  abolish  state  trading  enterprises. 

In  the  lawlessness  that  beset  Albania  after  the  communist  order 
began  to  break  down,  trade  laws  were  generally  ignored  by  the 
country's  private  businessmen  and  black  marketeers,  especially  eth- 
nic Albanians  from  Serbia's  province  of  Kosovo  (see  Glossary)  and 
emigres  in  Europe  and  the  United  States.  Graft  pervaded  the  cus- 
toms service.  Italian  soldiers  said  customs  officers  who  inspected 
containers  of  aid  from  Italy  left  the  Durres  dockyards  with  food 
jammed  into  their  clothing.  High-ranking  government  officials 
resigned  after  disclosures  that  they  had  smuggled  to  Greece  1,000 
tons  of  Italian  cooking  oil  sent  as  food  aid.  Peasants  also  smuggled 


160 


161 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

livestock  to  markets  across  the  Greek  order,  and  border  officials 
in  Yugoslavia  and  Greece  complained  of  Albanians  coming  across 
and  burglarizing  homes. 

Foreign  Trade  Balance  and  Balance  of  Payments 

After  more  than  a  decade  of  autarky  and  trade  surpluses,  the 
force  of  Albania's  economic  collapse  pulled  the  country's  foreign- 
trade  balance  and  balance  of  payments  into  the  red.  Albania's  ex- 
ports slipped  more  than  50  percent  to  about  US$120  million  in  the 
early  1990s,  and  the  influx  of  emergency  food  and  commodity  aid 
contributed  almost  half  of  a  20  percent  increase  in  imports.  In  1991 
Albania's  external  current-accounts  deficit,  excluding  official  trans- 
fers, widened  to  more  than  US$250  million,  which  equaled  about 
30  percent  of  the  country's  GDP  before  the  economy  seized  up. 
In  an  effort  to  narrow  the  gap,  the  authorities  practically  depleted 
Albania's  meager  foreign-currency  reserves.  In  the  late  1980s,  the 
government  began  ignoring  the  constitutional  ban  on  foreign 
credits,  and  by  mid- 1991  the  country's  total  convertible-currency 
debt  was  soaring  toward  US$400  million.  Shortfalls  in  the  output 
of  electric  power,  minerals,  and  other  goods  set  off  another  sig- 
nificant slide  in  export  earnings.  Officials  hoped  remittances  from 
the  thousands  of  Albanians  who  had  fled  to  Greece  and  Italy  would 
help  return  Albania's  balance  of  payments  to  an  even  keel,  but 
in  the  early  1990s  these  emigres  were  mostly  sending  home  hard 
goods,  such  as  used  cars,  unavailable  in  the  homeland. 

Trade  Partners 

In  the  mid-1980s,  Albania  claimed  to  be  carrying  on  trade  with 
more  than  fifty  countries  although  the  value  of  the  goods  exchanged 
with  most  of  them  was  small.  Trade  with  IMF  member  countries, 
however,  was  in  some  cases  substantial  (see  table  11,  Appendix). 
Neighboring  Yugoslavia  accounted  for  about  18  percent  of  Alba- 
nia's trade  volume;  the  remainder  was  divided  almost  evenly  be- 
tween the  communist  and  capitalist  countries.  Tirane's  main  trading 
partners  in  Eastern  Europe  were  Romania,  Poland,  Bulgaria,  and 
Czechoslovakia.  In  the  late  1970s,  Albania's  break  with  China 
forced  its  commercial  representatives  to  redouble  their  efforts  to 
find  new  trading  partners  in  the  free-market  world.  The  value  of 
Albania's  trade  with  the  West  stood  at  about  US$200  million  by 
the  late  1980s.  In  1988  its  main  Western  trading  partners  were  Italy 
(US$65  million  in  trade  turnover),  West  Germany  (US$52  mil- 
lion), Greece  (US$16.4  million),  and  France  (US$14  million). 

Albanian-Yugoslav  trade,  torpid  throughout  a  decades-long  chill 
in  the  two  countries'  relations,  revived  after  Albania's  break  with 


162 


The  Economy 


China.  The  chamber  of  commerce  of  each  nation  opened  offices 
in  the  other's  capital  city,  and  in  1986  a  new  rail  line  to  Yugosla- 
via linked  Albania  with  the  European  rail  network  for  the  first  time. 
Albanian  imports  from  Yugoslavia  included  reinforcing  steel,  rail- 
road track,  steel  piping,  cables,  bricks,  pharmaceuticals,  electron- 
ics, textiles,  food,  and  capital  goods.  Yugoslavia  imported  electric 
power,  tobacco,  chrome,  bitumen,  gasoline,  natural  gas,  cognac, 
and  food  from  Albania.  The  fallout  from  the  political  crisis  in  Yu- 
goslavia's Kosovo  province,  populated  mainly  by  ethnic  Albani- 
ans, had  surprisingly  little  effect  on  Albanian- Yugoslav  trade  until 
the  early  1990s,  when  war  erupted  between  Croatia  and  Serbia. 
In  1991  the  Albanian  government  and  leaders  of  the  ethnic  Alba- 
nian community  in  Kosovo  worked  toward  establishing  a  joint, 
Tirane-based  commission  to  promote  stronger  economic  ties. 

After  its  break  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1960,  Albania  played 
no  part  in  the  activities  of  Comecon.  Trade  with  the  Eastern  bloc — 
with  the  glaring  exception  of  the  Soviet  Union,  with  which  Alba- 
nia maintained  no  trade  relations — increased  after  Albania  broke 
with  China.  Generally,  Albania  supplied  its  communist-world  trad- 
ing partners  with  metal  ores  and  agricultural  products;  it  import- 
ed machinery,  transportation  equipment,  and  some  consumer 
goods.  The  Albanians  obtained  rolled  steel  and  coking  coal  from 
Poland,  pumps  from  Hungary,  trucks  and  tires  from  Czechoslovak- 
ia, sheet  steel  from  Bulgaria,  and  textile  machinery  and  fertilizers 
from  East  Germany.  The  Albanians  also  signed  a  contract  with 
Hungary  to  build  a  pharmaceuticals  plant  in  Tirane.  After  a  five- 
year  hiatus,  China  and  Albania  resumed  trade  activities  in  1983; 
the  new  relationship,  however,  lacked  the  intimacy  of  the  twelve- 
year  period  of  close  cooperation  in  the  1960s  and  early  1970s.  Al- 
bania carried  on  a  modicum  of  trade  with  the  Democratic  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea)  and  Cuba. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  growing  interest  of  small  import  firms  in 
the  Albanian  market  accounted  for  a  sharp  increase  in  trade  with 
Italy  and  West  Germany.  Italy  was  Albania's  largest  Western  trad- 
ing partner  in  the  late  1980s.  Italian  exports  to  Albania  accounted 
for  about  20  percent  of  the  West's  exports  to  Albania  in  1985,  and 
Italy  purchased  16.5  percent  of  Albania's  exports  to  Western  coun- 
tries. Italy  sold  Albania  metalworking  and  food-processing  ma- 
chinery, chemicals,  iron  and  steel,  metal  products,  vehicles,  and 
plastics.  The  Italians  imported  petroleum  products,  chrome,  cop- 
per, nickel  and  iron  ore,  and  farm  products  from  Albania.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  West  Germany  accounted  for  about  15.5  percent  of 
Western  exports  to  Albania  and  1 5  percent  of  Western  purchases 
from  Albania.  Chromium  ore  and  concentrates  represented  about 


163 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

50  percent  of  Albania's  exports  to  West  Germany  in  1985.  The 
Albanians  bought  machinery,  transportation  equipment,  and 
manufactured  goods  from  West  Germany.  The  collapse  of  Alba- 
nia's Stalinist  economic  system  opened  the  door  for  greater  trade 
with  Western  Europe.  In  1991  Tirane  was  negotiating  its  first  eco- 
nomic agreement  with  the  European  Community,  under  which  each 
party  would  grant  the  other  most-favored-nation  status  (see 
Glossary) . 

For  decades  Albania  was  subject  to  all  United  States  controls 
on  exports  to  East  European  nations.  The  country  did  not  have 
most-favored-nation  treatment  and  was  not  eligible  for  credits  or 
loan  guarantees  from  the  Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States 
(Eximbank).  Nevertheless,  the  volume  of  United  States  trade  with 
Albania  grew  from  about  US$1  million  in  1973  to  over  US$20  mil- 
lion in  1982;  it  fell,  however,  to  US$7.7  million  in  1986.  In  1991 
the  United  States  exported  coal,  wheat,  butterfat,  powdered  milk, 
and  other  products  to  Albania  with  a  total  value  of  about  US$18 
million;  to  the  United  States,  Albania  exported  primarily  spices 
and  fruit  preserves  worth  about  US$3.2  million.  In  1991  Albania 
was  attempting  to  conclude  an  economic  agreement  with  the  United 
States  by  which  each  nation  would  extend  to  the  other  most-favored- 
nation  status. 

Albania's  trade  with  developing  countries,  which  was  driven 
mostly  by  a  need  to  find  and  nurture  political  alliances,  amounted 
to  only  about  US$10  million  out  of  a  total  trade  turnover  of  US$513 
million  reported  in  1982.  Trade  with  developing  countries  was  hin- 
dered because  Albania  sold  its  raw  materials  to  and  bought  vital 
manufactured  goods  from  wealthier,  industrialized  nations.  Algeria, 
Costa  Rica,  Egypt,  Iran,  Libya,  Mexico,  and  Turkey  had  had  trade 
agreements  with  communist  Albania. 

Commodity  Pattern  of  Trade 

Raw  materials,  fuels,  and  capital  goods  accounted  for  the  bulk 
of  Albania's  foreign  trade  before  the  communist  system  fell  apart 
(see  table  12;  table  13,  Appendix).  The  communist  regime  strove 
to  increase  the  value  of  the  country's  exports  by  producing  and 
selling  industrial  and  semifinished  products  instead  of  raw  materi- 
als and  foodstuffs.  In  the  late  1980s,  raw  materials  and  industrial 
goods  made  up  about  75  percent  of  exports,  which  mainly  consist- 
ed of  petroleum,  chromite  and  chrome  products,  copper  wire,  nickel, 
and  electric  power.  Albania's  light  industries  contributed  export  earn- 
ings from  sales  of  bicycles,  textiles,  handicrafts,  souvenirs,  wood 
products,  briar  pipes,  and  rugs.  Cognac,  cigarettes,  fruit,  olives,  to- 
matoes, canned  sardines,  anchovies,  and  other  agricultural  products 


164 


The  Economy 


also  accounted  for  a  share  of  exports.  In  1989  Albania  imported 
about  US$245  million  in  goods  from  the  West,  up  from  US$165 
million  in  1988.  It  imported  mainly  capital  goods,  semifinished 
products,  and  replacement  parts  necessary  to  keep  industries,  es- 
pecially export-producing  industries,  functioning.  Imports  included 
locomotives,  trailers,  machinery,  textiles,  synthetic  fibers,  lubri- 
cants, dyes,  plastics,  and  certain  raw  materials.  Consumer  goods 
such  as  components  for  television  sets  and  equipment  to  outfit  en- 
terprises serving  foreign  tourists  accounted  for  a  smaller  percen- 
tage of  imports. 

Activities  of  Foreign  Companies  in  Albania 

Albania's  1976  constitution  specifically  prohibited  joint  ventures 
between  Albanian  enterprises  and  foreign  firms.  However,  the  se- 
vere economic  crisis  of  the  early  1990s  persuaded  the  government 
to  create  a  rudimentary  framework  for  regulating  the  business  ac- 
tivities of  foreign  firms  on  Albanian  soil.  Decrees  were  issued  provid- 
ing for  investment  protection  and  the  creation  of  joint  ventures 
between  Albanian  and  foreign  companies.  At  least  in  theory,  the 
August  1991  law  on  economic  activity  allowed  foreign  companies 
to  repatriate,  in  foreign  currency,  accumulated  capital  and  profits 
from  economic  activities.  More  than  two  dozen  foreign  companies 
had  already  signed  joint- venture  contracts  by  August  1991 .  Almost 
half  of  the  joint  ventures  involved  small  investments  in  shoe  and 
textile  manufacturing,  fishing,  retail  trade,  tourism,  and  construc- 
tion. Foreign  petroleum  companies  also  signed  agreements  to  ex- 
plore for  petroleum  reserves  beneath  the  Adriatic  Sea.  Other  potential 
investors  came  from  Italy  and  Greece,  the  Albanian  emigre  com- 
munity in  the  West,  and  Kosovo's  community  of  ethnic  Albanians. 

In  October  1991,  Albania  joined  the  IMF  and  afterward  worked 
to  secure  the  IMF  standby  credit  agreement  prerequisite  to  receipt 
of  credits  from  the  World  Bank  and  other  international  institutions. 
Albania  also  became  a  member  of  the  Multilateral  Investment 
Guarantee  Agency,  a  part  of  the  World  Bank  Group;  signed  bilater- 
al trade  accords  and  foreign-investment  protection  agreements  with 
Italy,  Germany,  Greece,  and  Turkey;  and  signed  an  agreement 
with  the  Overseas  Private  Insurance  Corporation,  which  insures 
foreign  investments  by  United  States  companies.  Greek  business- 
men also  began  operating  clothing  and  yarn  factories,  and  Greek 
firms  signed  agreements  to  transport  natural  gas  as  well  as  con- 
tracts for  road  construction,  machinery  sales,  and  shipping.  Alba- 
nia also  signed  import-credit  arrangements  with  Turkey,  which 
agreed  to  give  Albania  technical  assistance  in  banking  and  other 
areas. 


165 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Foreign  Assistance 

Throughout  its  modern  history,  with  the  exception  of  the  disas- 
trous "self-reliance"  period  in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Albania  has 
relied  on  foreign  aid  to  achieve  economic  growth.  Each  interrup- 
tion of  aid  has  had  immediate  and  dramatic  effects.  Between  1955 
and  1960,  foreign  assistance  augmented  Albania's  state  budget  233 
percent,  and  industrial  output  rose  by  an  average  of  16.5  percent 
annually;  between  1960  and  1965,  aid  augmented  the  budget  130 
percent,  and  yearly  industrial  output  rose  only  by  an  average  6.8 
percent  annually. 

The  Stalinist  economic  system's  breakdown  left  Albania  with 
acute  shortages  of  many  of  the  basic  necessities  of  life,  especially 
food.  Having  no  choice  but  to  turn  to  the  West  for  aid,  Albania's 
leaders  got  responses  from  the  United  States,  the  member  states 
of  the  European  Community,  and  Turkey;  Greece  and  Italy  were 
particularly  forthcoming.  Italy,  which  was  interested  in  providing 
assistance  mainly  in  order  to  stem  inflows  of  Albanian  job  seek- 
ers, pledged  more  than  US$300  million  in  food,  raw  materials,  and 
replacement  parts  alone.  Western  economists  estimated  that  in  1992 
Albania  would  need  some  US$500  million  worth  of  food,  basic  con- 
sumer goods,  and  materials  for  its  factories.  Law-enforcement 
problems  and  poor,  often  predatory,  local  administrations  com- 
plicated aid  deliveries,  and  on  occasion  mobs  stormed  and  looted 
food  warehouses  and  trucks.  In  many  areas,  the  local  communist 
bosses  controlled  the  only  aid-distribution  network.  They  often  stole 
relief  supplies  and  denied  deliveries  to  ordinary  people.  In  mid- 1991 
the  Italian  army  launched  "Operation  Pelican,"  sending  750  troops 
to  protect  convoys  delivering  aid  from  the  ports  of  Vlore  and  Durres 
to  Albania's  twenty-six  district  centers.  Western  aid  to  Albania  was 
also  directed  at  longer-term  goals.  In  July  1991,  the  European  Com- 
munity enrolled  Albania  in  its  program  for  technical  assistance  to 
the  former  communist  countries.  Germany  granted  assistance  to 
improve  health  services,  the  drinking-water  supply,  and  student 
housing. 

Prospects  for  Reform 

In  1992,  after  close  to  fifty  years  of  communist-imposed  isola- 
tion following  five  centuries  of  Ottoman  domination,  the  Albani- 
an people  had  little  awareness  of  the  outside  world  and  possessed 
Europe's  least  developed  trade  network.  The  Albanians  faced  the 
daunting  task  of  reviving  their  moribund  factories  and  workshops 
and  learning  the  realities  of  modern  capitalism  while  building  a 


166 


The  Economy 


market  economy  from  scratch.  Burgeoning  unemployment,  fall- 
ing output,  acute  food  shortages,  and  widespread  lawlessness  eroded 
most  grounds  for  optimism  in  the  prospects  for  rapid  success.  In- 
dividual Albanian  factories  could  not  switch  on  assembly  lines  be- 
cause idled  plants,  farms,  mines,  and  generators  elsewhere  in  the 
production  chain  were  not  supplying  essential  inputs.  For  most  en- 
terprises, importing  these  inputs  was  impossible  because  Albania's 
nascent  foreign-exchange  market  was  not  yet  fully  operative.  Despite 
Albania's  dire  circumstances,  World  Bank  and  European  Com- 
munity economists  projected  that  the  country's  resource  base  and 
labor  force  could  provide  the  basis  for  an  escape  from  poverty  if 
the  government,  with  the  international  community's  financial  help, 
took  urgent  steps  to  establish  the  institutions  and  infrastructure 
needed  to  support  a  market  economy  and  stimulate  small-scale  pri- 
vate entrepreneur  ship  in  the  farm  sector. 

The  government's  immediate  objective  was  to  restore  a  secure 
food  supply  for  the  general  population  and  provide  income  and 
employment  for  rural  inhabitants.  Albanian  leaders  turned  to  the 
international  community  for  direct  food  aid  and  technical  and 
material  assistance  for  the  farm  sector.  Boosting  agricultural  out- 
put was  also  a  prerequisite  for  resuming  industrial  production  be- 
cause many  factories  needed  inputs  of  raw  materials  produced  in 
the  farm  sector.  Overall  resumption  of  production  had  to  be  coor- 
dinated between  state  enterprises  so  as  to  create  economic  demand 
and  establish  a  smooth  flow  of  supplies.  In  1992,  despite  the  coun- 
try's inability  to  pay  its  international  creditors,  Albania  looked  to 
the  IMF,  World  Bank,  and  individual  Western  countries  to  lend 
the  money  needed  to  jump  start  and  stabilize  the  economy.  Over 
the  longer  term,  the  Albanian  economy's  fate  depends  on  the  coun- 
try's political  leadership  restoring  law  and  order,  attracting  pri- 
vate investors  from  abroad,  and  obtaining  credits  and  aid  from 
Western  governments  for  the  modernization  of  industry  and  agricul- 
ture. The  last  task  is  especially  important  because  the  lack  of  ex- 
pertise in  international  trade  and  poor  quality  of  Albania's  exports 
preclude  the  country's  earning  the  foreign  exchange  necessary  to 
improve  infrastructure  and  increase  production.  Chronic  unem- 
ployment is  almost  certain  to  be  a  reality  in  Albania  until  urbani- 
zation significantly  slackens  population  growth. 

*    *  * 

Despite  Albania's  small  size  and  its  communist  regime's  almost 
pathological  yearning  for  secrecy,  a  surprising  amount  of  literature 
is  available  on  the  Balkan  state's  economy.  The  best  descriptions 


167 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


of  Albania's  Stalinist  system  are  Adi  Schnytzer's  Stalinist  Econom- 
ic Strategy  in  Practice  and  Orjan  Sjoberg's  Rural  Change  and  Develop- 
ment in  Albania.  Stavro  Skendi's  Albania,  Peter  R.  Prifti's  Socialist 
Albania  since  1944,  and  Robert  Owen  Freedman's  Economic  Warfare 
in  the  Communist  Bloc  offer  valuable  historical  insights  into  Alba- 
nia's economic  development.  Gramoz  Pashko,  the  Albanian 
economist  best  known  in  the  West,  has  also  contributed  several 
clearly  written,  compelling  papers  on  Albania's  communist  eco- 
nomic system,  including  "The  Albanian  Economy  at  the  Begin- 
ning of  the  1990s."  Both  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit  and 
Business  International  publish  regular  studies  of  the  Albanian  eco- 
nomic situation;  the  studies  are  particularly  useful  to  persons  ex- 
ploring the  possibility  of  trading  with  the  country  or  setting  up 
business  operations  there.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


168 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Albanian  citizens  celebrating  victory  after  announcement  that  regime  would 
permit  multiparty  elections,  December  1990 


ALBANIA  WAS  THE  LAST  COUNTRY  in  Eastern  Europe 
during  the  early  1990s  to  undergo  a  transition  from  a  totalitarian 
communist  regime  to  an  incipient  system  of  democracy.  Because 
Albania  was  isolated  from  the  outside  world  and  ruled  by  a  highly 
repressive,  Stalinist- type  dictatorship  for  more  than  four  decades, 
this  transition  was  especially  tumultuous  and  painful,  making  a 
gradual  approach  to  reform  difficult. 

Following  the  establishment  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Albania 
in  January  1946,  Albania  became  a  rigid  police  state,  dominated 
completely  by  the  communist  party  and  by  Marxism-Leninism. 
Although  Albania  operated  under  the  facade  of  constitutional  rule, 
the  communist  party,  led  by  Enver  Hoxha,  who  was  also  presi- 
dent of  Albania,  actually  controlled  all  aspects  of  the  political,  so- 
cial, and  economic  systems.  Hoxha  pursued  a  repressive  internal 
policy,  while  at  the  same  time  implementing  a  highly  isolationist 
foreign  policy.  His  reliance  first  on  the  financial  aid  and  political 
protection  of  a  sequence  of  patron  states,  then  insistence  on  Alba- 
nia's economic  self-reliance  and  a  highly  centralized  economic  sys- 
tem caused  Albania  to  lag  far  behind  its  neighbors  in  terms  of 
economic  development. 

After  Hoxha  died  in  1985,  his  hand-picked  successor,  Ramiz 
Alia,  who  became  party  leader  while  retaining  his  post  as  titular 
head  of  state  (chairman  of  the  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assem- 
bly), at  first  appeared  to  be  carrying  on  Hoxha' s  tradition  of  hard- 
line policies.  But  it  soon  became  clear  that  he  was  more  flexible 
than  his  predecessor  and  was  willing  to  institute  badly  needed  po- 
litical and  economic  reforms  that  attempted  to  prevent  the  coun- 
try from  collapsing  into  anarchy.  These  reforms,  however,  were 
largely  cosmetic  and  insufficient  to  meet  the  demands  of  the  grow- 
ing radical  elements  in  the  population.  By  1991,  popular  dissatis- 
faction with  Alia's  regime  had  mounted,  causing  considerable 
political  instability  and  social  unrest.  The  civil  war  in  neighboring 
Yugoslavia  (see  Glossary)  served  only  to  exacerbate  the  growing 
political  and  social  tension  within  Albania.  Alia  resigned  follow- 
ing his  party's  resounding  defeat  in  the  spring  1992  multiparty 
election,  and  a  new  government  undertook  the  task  of  building 
democracy  in  a  country  that  for  close  to  five  decades  had  been  iso- 
lated from  the  outside  world,  dominated  by  a  highly  repressive  po- 
litical system,  and  devoid  of  free-market,  private  enterprise. 


171 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Origins  of  the  Political  System 

The  communists  gained  a  foothold  in  Albanian  politics  during 
World  War  II ,  when  they  became  the  founders  and  leaders  of  the 
National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM),  which  came  into  existence 
during  the  Italian  and  German  occupations.  Hoxha,  a  former 
schoolteacher  who  became  first  secretary  of  the  Albanian  Com- 
munist Party  (ACP)  in  1941,  was  a  prominent  wartime  resistance 
leader  and  was  largely  responsible  for  the  success  of  the  communists 
in  achieving  a  position  of  political  dominance  towards  the  end  of 
the  war. 

As  leaders  of  the  NLM,  the  Albanian  communists  were  successful 
in  arousing  active  opposition  to  the  Italian  army  and,  after  Sep- 
tember 1943,  to  the  German  army.  Toward  the  end  of  the  war, 
the  communists  worked  unceasingly  to  ensure  that  they  would  ex- 
ercise political  power  in  liberated  Albania.  In  October  1944,  the 
renamed  National  Liberation  Front  transformed  itself  into  the  provi- 
sional democratic  government  of  Albania,  with  Hoxha  as  prime 
minister.  By  the  time  German  troops  had  withdrawn  from  Alba- 
nia in  November  1944,  almost  all  organized  resistance  to  com- 
munism had  been  crushed. 

Albania  after  World  War  II 

The  People's  Republic  of  Albania  was  proclaimed  on  January 
11,  1946,  by  a  newly  elected  People's  Assembly.  The  assembly, 
which  was  elected  in  December  1945,  initially  included  both  com- 
munists and  noncommunists.  Within  a  year,  however,  all  noncom- 
munists  had  been  purged  from  the  assembly  and  were  subsequently 
executed.  The  communists  had  a  monopoly  of  power  by  the  end 
of  1946. 

The  new  regime  acted  swifdy  to  consolidate  its  position  by  break- 
ing up  the  power  of  the  middle  class  and  other  perceived  oppo- 
nents. The  communist  party  tried  before  special  tribunals  those 
classified  as  "war  criminals,"  a  designation  that  came  to  include 
anyone  who  was  unsympathetic  to  the  new  government.  Members 
of  the  landed  aristocracy  and  tribal  chieftains  were  arrested  and 
sent  to  labor  camps.  More  than  600  leaders  were  executed  during 
the  new  government's  first  two  weeks  in  power.  In  an  effort  to 
strengthen  its  grip  on  the  economy,  the  government  promulgated 
a  series  of  laws  providing  for  strict  state  regulation  of  all  industrial 
and  commercial  enterprises  and  foreign  and  domestic  trade.  The 
laws  legalized  the  confiscation  of  property  of  political  opponents  in 
exile  and  anyone  designated  an  "enemy  of  the  people"  and  levied 
a  crushing  "war-profits  tax"  against  the  economically  prosperous 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


members  of  the  population.  As  part  of  its  program  to  nationalize 
industry,  the  government  confiscated  all  German  and  Italian  as- 
sets in  Albania  and  revoked  all  foreign  economic  concessions.  All 
means  of  transportation  were  also  nationalized.  As  far  as  the  peasan- 
try was  concerned,  the  new  government  was  cautious.  The  Agrar- 
ian Reform  Law  of  1945  nationalized  all  forests  and  pasturelands, 
but  landowners  who  possessed  farm  machinery  were  allowed  to  keep 
up  to  forty  hectares  for  farming  (see  Communist  Albania,  ch.  1). 

The  Hoxha  Regime 

Hoxha  was  the  most  powerful  leader  in  modern  Albania,  occupy- 
ing at  times  the  posts  of  prime  minister,  minister  of  defense,  and 
commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  while  continuing  to  serve 
as  first  secretary  of  the  AC  P.  He  was  head  of  state  from  1944  until 
1985.  His  main  rival  in  the  initial  period  of  his  rule  was  the  minister 
of  internal  affairs  and  head  of  the  dreaded  secret  police,  Koci  Xoxe. 
Xoxe  was  close  to  the  Yugoslavs  and  was  arrested  in  1948  as  a 
Titoist  (see  Glossary)  following  Albania's  break  with  Yugoslavia. 
The  next  most  influential  political  figure  was  Mehmet  Shehu,  who 
became  prime  minister  when  Hoxha  relinquished  this  post  in  July 
1954. 

Hoxha' s  efforts  to  impose  a  rigid,  repressive  political  and  govern- 
ment structure  on  Albania  met  with  little  active  resistance  until 
the  country's  declining  standard  of  living  and  poor  economic  per- 
formance led  to  such  dissatisfaction  that  unrest  began  to  spread 
in  1965-66.  In  response,  the  Hoxha  government  initiated  the  Cul- 
tural and  Ideological  Revolution  in  February  1966,  which  was  an 
attempt  to  reassert  communist  party  influence  on  all  aspects  of  life 
and  rekindle  revolutionary  fervor.  By  1973  demands  for  a  relaxa- 
tion of  party  controls  and  for  internal  reforms  were  creating  con- 
siderable pressure  on  Hoxha.  The  pressure  led  him  to  launch  a 
series  of  purges  of  top  cultural,  military,  and  economic  officials. 
In  1977,  for  example,  an  alleged  "Chinese  conspiracy"  was  un- 
covered, which  resulted  in  the  dismissal  and  arrest  of  several  top 
military  officials. 

In  keeping  with  its  Stalinist  practices,  Albania's  government  pur- 
sued a  rigorously  dogmatic  line  in  domestic  policy,  instituting  highly 
centralized  economic  planning  and  rigid  restrictions  on  educational 
and  cultural  development.  In  1976  a  new  constitution  was  promul- 
gated, the  third  such  constitution  since  the  communists  came  to 
power.  The  1976  constitution,  which  changed  the  official  name  of 
the  country  to  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  was  lit- 
tle different  from  the  1950  version.  It  paid  lip  service  to  such  insti- 
tutions as  the  Supreme  Court  and  the  People's  Assembly,  but  it 


173 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

affirmed  the  primary  role  of  the  communist  party,  known  as  the 
Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL)  from  1948  until  1991. 

Whatever  gains  the  Hoxha  leadership  achieved  in  socioeconomic 
terms  were  diminished  by  the  sharp  repression  in  all  areas  of  life, 
and  Hoxha' s  decision  to  keep  Albania  isolated  retarded  the  coun- 
try's technological  growth  to  such  an  extent  that  it  became  eco- 
nomically inferior  to  all  of  its  neighbors  (see  Economic  Policy  and 
Performance,  ch.  3). 

The  early  1980s  were  marked  by  further  purges  in  the  govern- 
ment and  party  in  preparation  for  the  impending  succession  to  Hox- 
ha, who  was  in  ill  health.  Although  Prime  Minister  Shehu  had  been 
regarded  as  the  second  most  powerful  leader,  especially  because 
he  had  significant  support  in  the  police  and  military,  Hoxha  decided 
against  naming  him  as  his  successor.  Instead,  Hoxha  began  a  cam- 
paign against  him,  which  culminated  in  Shehu 's  alleged  suicide 
in  December  1981 .  Hoxha  then  proceeded  to  arrest  all  of  Shehu 's 
family  and  supporters. 

Alia  Takes  Over 

Before  Hoxha  died  in  April  1985,  after  more  than  forty  years 
as  the  unchallenged  leader,  he  had  designated  Ramiz  Alia  as  his 
successor.  Alia  was  born  in  1925  and  had  joined  the  Albanian  com- 
munist movement  before  he  was  twenty  years  old.  He  had  risen 
rapidly  under  Hoxha' s  patronage  and  by  1961  was  a  full  member 
of  the  ruling  Political  Bureau  (Politburo)  of  the  APL.  Hoxha  chose 
Alia  for  several  reasons.  First,  Alia  had  long  been  a  militant  fol- 
lower of  Marxism- Leninism  (see  Glossary)  and  supported  Hox- 
ha's  policy  of  national  self-reliance.  Alia  also  was  favored  by 
Hoxha' s  wife  Nexhmije,  who  had  once  been  his  instructor  at  the 
Institute  of  Marxism-Leninism.  Alia's  political  experience  was  simi- 
lar to  that  of  Hoxha;  and  inasmuch  as  he  appeared  to  share  Hox- 
ha's  views  on  most  foreign  and  domestic  issues,  he  easily 
accommodated  himself  to  the  totalitarian  mode  of  ruling.  That  he 
had  managed  to  survive  several  waves  of  extensive  purges  bespoke 
his  political  prowess  and  capacity  for  survival. 

The  second-ranking  member  of  the  leadership  after  Hoxha' s 
death  was  Prime  Minister  Adil  Qarcani,  a  full  member  of  the  Polit- 
buro since  1 96 1 .  Among  the  fifteen  candidate  and  full  members 
of  the  party's  Politburo  in  1985,  nine  were  members  of  the  post- 
war generation  and  most  had  made  their  political  careers  after 
Albanian- Soviet  ties  were  severed  in  1961.  By  late  1986,  both  the 
Politburo  and  the  party's  other  administrative  organ,  the  Secretari- 
at, were  dominated  by  Alia's  supporters. 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


When  Alia  took  over  as  first  secretary  of  the  APL,  the  country 
was  in  grave  difficulty.  Political  apathy  and  cynicism  were  perva- 
sive, with  large  segments  of  the  population  having  rejected  the  re- 
gime's values.  The  economy,  which  suffered  from  low  productivity 
and  permanent  shortages  of  the  most  basic  foodstuffs,  showed  no 
sign  of  improvement.  Social  controls  and  self-discipline  had  eroded. 
The  intelligentsia  was  beginning  to  resist  strict  party  controls  and 
to  criticize  the  regime's  failure  to  observe  international  standards 
of  human  rights.  Apparently  recognizing  the  depth  and  extent  of 
the  societal  malaise,  Alia  cautiously  and  slowly  began  to  make 
changes  in  the  system.  His  first  target  was  the  economic  system. 
In  an  effort  to  improve  economic  efficiency,  Alia  introduced  some 
economic  decentralization  and  price  reform  in  specific  sectors. 
Although  these  changes  marked  a  departure  from  the  Hoxha  re- 
gime, they  did  not  signify  a  fundamental  reform  of  the  economic 
system. 

Alia  did  not  relax  censorship,  but  he  did  allow  public  discus- 
sions of  Albania's  societal  problems  and  encouraged  debates  among 
writers  and  artists  on  cultural  issues.  In  response  to  international 
criticism  of  Albania's  record  on  human  rights,  the  new  leadership 
loosened  some  political  controls  and  ceased  to  apply  repression  on 
a  mass  scale.  In  1986  and  1989,  general  amnesties  brought  about 
the  release  of  many  long-term  prisoners.  Alia  also  took  steps  to  es- 
tablish better  ties  with  the  outside  world,  strengthening  relations 
with  Greece,  Italy,  Turkey,  and  Yugoslavia.  A  loosening  of  restric- 
tions on  travel  and  tourism  resulted  in  a  more  promising  outlook 
for  Albania's  tourist  trade. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Alia  was  supporting  a  campaign  for  more  open- 
ness in  the  press  and  encouraging  people  to  talk  freely  about  Al- 
bania's problems.  As  a  result,  controversial  articles  on  a  range  of 
topics  began  to  appear  in  the  press.  Not  everyone,  however,  was 
happy  with  Alia's  cautious  program  of  reform.  The  entrenched 
party  bureaucrats  were  worried  that  they  would  lose  their  powers 
and  privileges  and  hence  resisted  many  of  the  changes.  Thus  Alia's 
regime  was  not  able,  or  willing,  to  attempt  changes  that  would  put 
an  end  to  the  repressive  elements  of  the  system. 

Albania's  Communist  Party 

Albania's  communist  party,  in  early  1992,  was  in  a  state  of  tran- 
sition, and  its  future  remained  uncertain.  Known  from  1941  to  1948 
as  the  Albanian  Communist  Party,  from  November  1948  as  the 
Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL),  and  from  June  1991  as  the  So- 
cialist Party  of  Albania  (SPA),  the  communist  party  was  organized 
along  lines  similar  to  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union. 


175 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  1976  constitution  recognized  the  special  status  of  the  APL, 
which  controlled  the  political,  cultural,  and  economic  life  in  the 
country.  According  to  Article  3  of  the  constitution,  the  party  is  the 
"leading  political  force  of  the  state  and  of  the  society."  The  party 
was  organized  on  the  principle  of  democratic  centralism  (see  Glos- 
sary), under  which  the  minority  had  to  submit  to  the  majority  and 
could  not  express  disagreement  after  a  vote.  The  highest  organ  of 
the  party,  according  to  the  party  statutes,  was  the  party  congress, 
which  met  for  a  few  days  every  five  years.  Delegates  to  the  party 
congress  were  elected  at  party  conferences  held  at  the  regional,  dis- 
trict, and  city  levels.  The  party  congress  examined  and  approved 
reports  submitted  by  the  Central  Committee,  discussed  general 
party  policies,  and  elected  a  Central  Committee.  The  latter  was 
the  next  highest  echelon  in  the  party  hierarchy  and  generally  in- 
cluded all  key  officials  in  the  government,  as  well  as  prominent 
members  of  the  intelligentsia.  The  Central  Committee  directed 
party  activities  between  party  congresses  and  met  approximately 
three  times  a  year. 

As  in  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Central  Committee  elected  a  Polit- 
buro and  a  Secretariat.  The  Politburo,  which  usually  included  key 
government  ministers  and  Central  Committee  secretaries,  was  the 
main  administrative  and  policy-making  body  and  convened  on  a 
weekly  basis.  Generally  the  Central  Committee  approved  Polit- 
buro reports  and  policy  decisions  with  little  debate.  The  Secretari- 
at was  responsible  for  guiding  the  day-to-day  affairs  of  the  party, 
in  particular  for  organizing  the  execution  of  Politburo  decisions 
and  for  selecting  party  and  government  cadres. 

The  Ninth  Party  Congress  of  the  APL  was  convened  in  Novem- 
ber 1986,  with  1,628  delegates  in  attendance.  Since  1971,  the  com- 
position of  the  party  had  changed  in  several  respects.  The  percentage 
of  women  had  risen  from  22  percent  in  1971  to  32.2  percent  in 
1986,  while  70  percent  of  APL  members  were  under  the  age  of 
forty.  The  average  age  of  members  in  the  newly  elected  Central 
Committee  was  forty-nine,  as  compared  with  an  average  age  of 
fifty-three  in  the  previous  Central  Committee.  The  new  Central 
Committee  elected  a  Politburo  of  thirteen  full  and  five  candidate 
members.  In  his  speech  at  the  Ninth  Party  Congress,  Alia  did  not 
indicate  any  significant  departure  from  the  policies  of  Hoxha,  but 
he  launched  a  campaign  to  streamline  the  party  bureaucracy  and 
improve  its  efficiency.  Alia  urged  that  standards  of  cadre  training 
and  performance  be  raised  in  an  effort  to  rid  the  system  of  bu- 
reaucrats who  were  so  concerned  with  protecting  their  privileges 
that  they  blocked  the  implementation  of  new  economic  policies. 
The  Politburo  also  instituted  a  policy  whereby  cadres  in  positions 


176 


Speaker  at  the  Tenth  Party  Congress  of  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor,  June  1991 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


that  were  vulnerable  to  graft  and  corruption  would  be  rotated  on 
a  regular  basis. 

At  the  Ninth  Plenum  of  the  Central  Committee  in  January  1990, 
Alia  announced  further  modest  reforms.  Meetings  of  all  lower-level 
party  organizations  would  be  open  to  the  masses,  secretaries  of  party 
organizations  could  serve  no  longer  than  five  years,  one- third  of 
the  membership  in  state  organs  had  to  be  renewed  each  legislative 
term,  and  at  each  congress  of  the  APL  a  third  of  the  delegates  would 
be  replaced. 

These  reforms,  however,  appeared  to  be  ineffectual  after  Alba- 
nia underwent  radical  changes  in  its  political  culture  in  1990-91. 
As  was  the  case  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  in  other  countries  of  Eastern 
Europe,  attempts  at  cautious  reform  in  response  to  unrest  gave  rise 
to  widespread  manifestations  of  discontent.  On  December  1 1 ,  1990, 
student  protests  triggered  the  announcement  at  the  Thirteenth  Ple- 
num of  the  Central  Committee  of  the  APL  that  a  multiparty  sys- 
tem would  be  introduced  in  time  for  the  general  elections  set  for 
February  1 99 1 .  Following  the  multiparty  election  in  the  spring  of 
1991,  the  APL,  later  the  SPA,  emerged  as  the  dominant  partner 
in  a  coalition  government  (see  Reform  Politics,  this  ch.).  The  SPA 
was  defeated  in  the  spring  1992  general  election,  receiving  only 
26  percent  of  the  vote. 


177 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

The  Government  Apparatus 

The  government  apparatus,  like  that  of  the  party,  was  in  a  tran- 
sitional, reformist  phase  in  early  1992.  Following  the  upheavals 
of  1990  and  1991,  which  left  the  economy  shattered,  much  of  the 
country's  infrastructure  damaged,  and  parts  of  the  education  and 
welfare  systems  inoperative,  the  regime  was  becoming  more 
democratic  and  more  responsive  to  the  demands  of  the  Albanian 
people.  This  shift  was  reflected,  above  all,  in  the  introduction  of 
a  new  electoral  system,  which  for  the  first  time  allowed  people  to 
choose  among  several  candidates  in  electing  representatives  to  the 
legislature.  The  organs  of  government  described  here  were  provided 
for  in  the  1976  constitution.  However,  changes  were  introduced 
in  April  1991,  when  the  People's  Assembly  passed  the  Law  on 
Major  Constitutional  Provisions  (see  Multiparty  System,  this  ch.). 

People's  Assembly 

The  supreme  organ  of  the  state  was,  according  to  the  1976  con- 
stitution, the  People's  Assembly,  a  unicameral  legislative  body 
whose  250  members  were  elected  for  four  years  from  a  single  list 
of  approved  candidates.  All  legislative  power  was  vested  in  the  as- 
sembly, which  met  twice  a  year  for  a  few  days.  The  People's  As- 
sembly had  the  authority  to  appoint  commissions,  to  carry  out 
special  functions,  and  to  conduct  investigations.  Between  sessions 
the  fifteen-member  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assembly  took  charge. 
Proposals  for  legislation  could  be  made  by  the  Presidium  of  the 
People's  Assembly,  the  Council  of  Ministers,  or  members  of  the 
assembly  itself.  In  order  for  a  bill  to  become  law,  a  majority  of 
the  People's  Assembly  had  to  affirm  support  for  it.  Rarely  did  the 
assembly  express  anything  other  than  unanimous  approval  for  a 
bill.  The  chairman  of  the  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assembly  was 
Alia,  who  thus  merged  the  functions  of  party  and  government  leader 
in  one  person. 

Council  of  Ministers  and  People's  Councils 

The  Council  of  Ministers,  formally  approved  by  the  People's 
Assembly,  served  as  the  executive  branch  of  the  government,  tak- 
ing charge  of  activities  in  the  social,  economic,  and  cultural  spheres. 
The  APL's  Politburo  actually  chose  the  Council  of  Ministers,  which 
in  early  1991  consisted  of  twenty-one  members.  At  the  same  time, 
some  ministers  were  members  of  the  Politburo,  and  all  belonged 
to  the  APL.  This  fact  enabled  the  party  to  exercise  strong  supervi- 
sion and  direction  over  the  Council  of  Ministers,  and,  indeed,  the 
council's  main  function  was  to  ensure  that  Politburo  decisions  were 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


carried  out.  The  Council  of  Ministers  was  headed  by  a  chairman, 
the  de  facto  prime  minister,  who  was  chosen  by  the  party  leader- 
ship. In  January  1982,  Adil  Qarcani  succeeded  Mehmet  Shehu  as 
prime  minister  and  was,  in  turn,  replaced  by  Fatos  Nano  in  Febru- 
ary 1991. 

People's  councils,  elected  for  three-year  terms,  were  responsi- 
ble for  government  at  twenty-six  district  levels  as  well  as  regional 
and  city  levels.  They  maintained  order,  enforced  laws,  and  were 
charged  with  protecting  citizens'  rights.  The  councils  met  twice 
a  year  for  a  few  days,  and  between  sessions  their  work  was  con- 
ducted by  executive  committees. 

Courts 

The  highest  judicial  organ  was  the  Supreme  Court,  whose  mem- 
bers were  elected  to  a  four-year  term  by  the  People's  Assembly 
in  a  secret  ballot.  The  Supreme  Court  consisted  of  a  chairman, 
deputy  chairmen,  and  assistant  judges  and  made  its  decisions  col- 
legially.  Officers  of  courts  at  the  lower  levels — district  and  regional 
courts — were  elected  in  a  similar  manner  by  people's  councils.  Tri- 
als were  generally  open  to  the  public  and  were  often  held  in  places 
of  employment  or  in  villages  in  order  to  make  them  accessible. 

After  abolishing  the  Ministry  of  Justice  in  the  1960s,  the  Alba- 
nian leadership  placed  supervision  of  the  country's  legal  and  judi- 
cial system  in  the  hands  of  the  prosecutor  general.  Then  in  1983, 
the  Ministry  of  Justice's  Office  of  Investigations,  charged  with  in- 
vestigating criminal  cases,  was  placed  under  the  direct  supervision 
of  the  Presidium  of  the  People's  Assembly,  ostensibly  to  make  the 
legal  system  more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  people.  Whatever 
organizational  changes  occurred,  the  courts  themselves  had  little 
independence  in  practice  because  of  party  interference  in  both  the 
investigative  process  and  court  proceedings.  In  1990  the  Ministry 
of  Justice  was  reestablished,  with  a  mandate  for  supervising  the 
courts  and  coming  up  with  a  program  of  judicial  reform.  As  of  early 
1992,  the  creation  of  such  a  program  was  still  underway. 

Mass  Organizations 

According  to  Enver  Hoxha,  mass  organizations  were  "levers  of 
the  party  for  its  ties  with  the  masses,"  and  they  carried  out  politi- 
cal, executive,  and  organizational  work  in  such  a  way  as  to  enable 
party  directives  to  be  correctly  understood  and  implemented  by 
the  population  at  large.  Because  less  than  4  percent  of  Albania's 
population  belonged  to  the  APL  as  of  1990,  the  leadership  relied 
heavily  on  mass  organizations  to  achieve  political  socialization.  They 
were  controlled  by  APL  cadres  and  used  public  funds  for  their 


179 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

maintenance.  However,  by  early  1992,  the  importance  of  these  or- 
ganizations had  diminished  because  a  multiparty  system  had  been 
established  and  members  of  the  public  had  the  democratic  means 
through  which  to  channel  their  political  expressions. 

Democratic  Front 

Among  the  most  important  of  Albania's  mass  organizations  was 
the  Democratic  Front,  which  in  August  1945  succeeded  the  Na- 
tional Liberation  Front  (previously  the  National  Liberation  Move- 
ment) as  the  party's  most  important  auxiliary.  As  the  broadest  mass 
organization,  the  Democratic  Front  was  supposed  to  give  expres- 
sion to  the  political  views  of  the  population  and  to  carry  out  mass 
political  education.  The  main  tasks  of  this  organization  were  to 
strengthen  the  political  unity  between  the  party  and  the  people  and 
to  mobilize  the  masses  in  favor  of  the  implementation  of  the  APL's 
policies.  Ideological  indoctrination,  the  spreading  of  Marxist- 
Leninist  ideas,  was  another  goal  of  the  front.  The  Democratic  Front, 
as  an  umbrella  organization  for  cultural,  professional,  and  politi- 
cal groups,  was  open  to  all  citizens  who  were  at  least  eighteen  years 
old.  It  was  chaired  until  December  1990  by  Hoxha's  widow,  Nexh- 
mije,  herself  a  member  of  the  APL  Central  Committee. 

Union  of  Albanian  Working  Youth 

Described  officially  as  the  "greatest  revolutionary  force  of  inex- 
haustible strength"  and  a  "strong  fighting  reserve  of  the  party,"  the 
Union  of  Albanian  Working  Youth  was  another  key  organization 
for  political  socialization  and  indoctrination.  The  union  operated 
directly  under  the  APL,  with  its  local  organs  supervised  by  the  rele- 
vant district  or  city  party  committees.  Founded  in  1941,  the  union 
was  considered  one  of  the  most  important  auxiliaries  of  the  party. 
Organized  in  the  same  way  as  the  party,  the  union  had  city  and 
district  committees,  and  higher  organs,  including  the  Politburo  and 
Central  Committee.  It  was  patterned  after  the  Ail-Union  Lenin 
Communist  Youth  League,  known  as  Komsomol,  in  the  Soviet 
Union.  The  more  than  200,000  members  of  the  union  ranged  in 
age  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five.  The  union  was  responsible  for  con- 
trolling all  Pioneer  organizations,  which  embraced  children  from 
seven  to  fourteen  years  of  age;  for  implementing  party  directives 
among  youth;  and  for  mobilizing  so-called  volunteer  labor  brigades 
to  work  on  special  economic  projects.  Membership  in  the  union 
was  a  prerequisite  for  those  aspiring  to  a  career  in  the  party  or  state 
apparatus. 


180 


Government  and  Politics 

Union  of  Albanian  Women 

The  Union  of  Albanian  Women  was  another  important  mass 
organization.  The  union  was  headed  in  1990  by  Lumturie  Rexha, 
a  member  of  the  Central  Committee  of  the  APL.  Its  tasks  includ- 
ed controlling  and  supervising  the  political  and  social  activities  of 
the  country's  women,  handling  their  ideological  training,  and  lead- 
ing the  campaign  for  the  emancipation  of  women.  This  campaign, 
initiated  in  1966  by  Hoxha,  had  considerable  success  in  securing 
equal  social  and  political  rights  for  women.  As  part  of  the  cam- 
paign, women  from  the  cities  were  dispatched  to  rural  regions  to 
explain  to  the  party's  line  on  the  role  of  women.  By  the  late  1980s, 
women  accounted  for  47  percent  of  the  labor  force  and  about  30 
percent  of  deputies  to  the  People's  Assembly.  Women  held  respon- 
sible jobs  at  all  levels  of  government  and  received  equal  pay  in  most 
jobs.  Nonetheless,  Albanian  society  remained  behind  the  West  in 
its  attitudes  toward  women  and  had  a  long  way  to  go  to  achieve 
total  equality  for  women  (see  Traditional  Social  Patterns  and  Val- 
ues, ch.  2;  Women  in  the  Work  Force,  ch.  3). 

United  Trade  Unions  of  Albania 

Founded  in  1945,  the  United  Trade  Unions  of  Albania  had  tasks 
that  were  similar  to  those  of  the  Democratic  Front,  but  on  a  more 
limited  scale.  The  organization's  main  goal  was  to  carry  out  polit- 
ical and  ideological  education  of  the  work  force  and  to  mobilize 
support  for  the  implementation  of  the  party  line.  The  United  Trade 
Unions  of  Albania  consisted  of  three  general  unions:  the  Union 
of  Workers  of  Industry  and  Construction,  the  Union  of  Education 
and  Trade  Workers,  and  the  Union  of  Agriculture  and  Procure- 
ments Workers.  The  unions  operated  according  to  the  principle 
that  the  interests  of  the  workers  and  the  state  were  one  and  the 
same.  But  toward  the  end  of  the  1980s,  it  became  increasingly  clear 
that  workers  no  longer  identified  with  the  state.  Growing  disillu- 
sionment with  social  values  was  reflected  in  the  significant  increase 
in  theft  of  socialist  property,  corruption,  and  violation  of  labor  dis- 
cipline (see  Trade  Unions,  ch.  3). 

Mass  Media 

The  mass  media  had  long  served  as  an  important  instrument 
for  the  government's  efforts  to  revolutionize  society  along  com- 
munist lines.  One  of  the  first  acts  of  the  communists  when  they 
came  to  power  in  1944  was  to  seize  control  of  the  media,  although 
formal  nationalization  of  media  operations  did  not  occur  until  1946. 


181 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Thereafter  the  press,  radio,  and  later  television  were  used  to  justify 
communist  rule  and  instil  Marxist  values  in  the  population. 

The  press,  radio,  and  television  were  also  used  to  mobilize  the 
population  to  support  and  participate  in  the  implementation  of  re- 
gime programs,  such  as  economic  plans,  antireligious  policies,  or 
campaigns  to  promote  literacy.  In  order  to  appeal  to  the  sentiments 
of  the  masses,  much  of  the  media's  message  had  a  nationalist  con- 
tent, evoking  feelings  of  loyalty  and  pride  associated  with  Albanian 
independence.  The  media  also  served  to  keep  party  and  govern- 
ment officials  in  check  through  exposure  of  corruption  and  in- 
efficiency. 

The  media  were  closely  controlled  by  the  party  through  the  ex- 
ercise of  vigorous  censorship  until  1990,  when  the  leadership  be- 
gan to  moderate  policies  and  to  gradually  allow  for  the  expression 
of  views  that  ran  counter  to  the  official  line.  Before  1990  all  in- 
dividuals who  worked  in  the  mass  media,  whether  editors,  film 
directors,  or  television  and  radio  producers,  were  subject  to  strict 
party  discipline  and  rigid  guidelines. 

The  most  important  daily  newspaper  was  Zeri  i  Popullit  (Voice 
of  the  People),  published  by  the  party's  Central  Committee.  As 
a  result  of  the  democratic  changes  that  began  in  1990,  Zeri  i  Popul- 
lit lost  its  substantial  circulation  to  the  new,  liberal  papers  that 
started  to  emerge.  By  1991  several  opposition  papers  had  emerged, 
including  the  popular  and  outspoken  Rilindja  Demokratike.  In 
response  to  the  changing  public  mood,  Zeri  i  Popullit  dropped  the 
hammer  and  sickle  insignia  from  its  masthead,  along  with  the 
Marxist  slogan  "Proletarians  of  the  World  Unite."  It  then  joined 
with  opposition  newspapers  in  the  campaign  to  expose  and  de- 
nounce the  corruption  and  privileges  of  the  ruling  elite. 

Reform  Politics 

Albania  held  out  against  political  reform  longer  than  any  other 
country  that  had  been  considered  to  be  in  the  Soviet  Union's  sphere 
of  influence,  but  significant  indicators  of  change  in  the  country's 
politics  began  to  occur  in  1989.  Pressure  for  reform  originated  from 
several  sources:  the  intelligentsia  and  university  students,  workers, 
Politburo  members  antagonistic  to  Alia,  other  East  European  coun- 
tries, and  institutions  such  as  the  army  and  security  police.  Alia 
gradually  responded  to  these  pressures,  but  in  general  the  reforms 
he  initiated  were  too  little  too  late. 

Initial  Stages 

In  1990  Albania  had  the  youngest  population  in  Europe,  with  the 
average  age  at  twenty-seven.  Albanian  youth  had  been  discontented 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


and  restless  for  some  time  before  the  regime  began  to  make  changes. 
Although  efforts  were  made  to  keep  Albania  isolated  from  the  rest 
of  the  world,  television  broadcasts  from  other  European  countries 
reached  Albanian  citizens,  and  the  young  could  see  "bourgeois" 
lifestyles  and  the  political  ferment  that  was  occurring  elsewhere  in 
Eastern  Europe.  In  addition,  the  working  class  was  suffering  the 
dire  consequences  of  Albania's  declining  economy,  and  conditions 
were  worsened  by  a  terrible  drought  in  1989.  In  October  1989, 
workers  and  students  in  the  southern  district  of  Sarande  staged  pro- 
tests against  the  regime's  policy  of  work  incentives,  and  several 
protesters  were  arrested.  A  more  serious  protest  had  occurred  in 
May  1989  at  the  Enver  Hoxha  University  at  Tirane.  At  first  stu- 
dents were  simply  demanding  better  living  conditions,  but  their 
grievances  soon  acquired  a  more  political  character  and  were  treated 
as  a  distinct  threat  by  the  regime.  Although  the  protest  eventually 
ended  without  bloodshed,  it  caused  the  regime  to  reassess  its  policy 
toward  young  people  and  to  consider  such  measures  as  improving 
living  standards  and  educational  facilities  in  order  to  ease  the  dis- 
content that  had  been  building  up  among  students  (see  Education 
under  Communist  Rule,  ch.  2). 

Alia  and  his  colleagues  dismissed  the  Soviet  Union's  concepts 
of  glasnost'  (see  Glossary)  and  perestroika  (see  Glossary)  as  irrelevant 
to  the  Albanian  experience.  Demonstrating  his  ideological  purity, 
Alia  claimed  that  communism  collapsed  in  Eastern  Europe  because 
these  states  deviated  from  orthodox  Marxism.  At  the  Ninth  Ple- 
num of  the  party's  Central  Committee  in  January  1990,  however, 
Alia  announced  some  modest  political  reforms  (see  Albania's  Com- 
munist Party,  this  ch.).  In  addition,  he  presented  limited  economic 
reforms  that  called  for  some  management  authority  at  state  farm 
and  enterprise  levels  and  for  improvements  in  wage  and  price  regu- 
lations to  increase  the  role  of  material  incentives. 

In  general,  Alia's  reforms  suggested  that  the  party  leadership 
was  nervous  and  defensive,  and  Alia  seemed  anxious  to  convince 
the  Central  Committee  that  Albania  should  not  follow  the  path  of 
other  East  European  countries.  Albanian  leaders  seemed  to  fear 
that  anything  but  very  limited  reform  could  lead  to  the  social  and 
political  upheaval  that  had  occurred  elsewhere  in  Eastern  Europe. 
But  Alia's  half-measures  did  little  to  improve  the  economic  situa- 
tion or  to  halt  the  growing  discontent  with  his  regime. 

Some  Albanian  intellectuals,  such  as  the  sociologist  Hamit  Beqeja 
and  the  writer  Ismail  Kadare,  recommended  more  radical  changes, 
particularly  with  regard  to  democracy  and  freedom  of  the  press. 
As  their  demands  grew,  these  intellectuals  increasingly  clashed  with 
the  conservatives  in  the  party  and  state  bureaucracy.  In  October 


183 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

1990,  it  was  announced  that  Kadare,  Albania's  most  prominent 
writer,  had  defected  to  France.  The  defection  dealt  a  blow  to  Al- 
bania's image  both  at  home  and  abroad,  especially  since  the  writer 
had  sent  a  letter  to  Alia  explaining  that  he  had  defected  because 
he  was  disillusioned  with  the  slow  pace  of  democratic  change  in 
the  country.  The  official  reaction  to  Kadare 's  defection  was  to  con- 
demn it  as  a  "grave  offense  against  the  patriotic  and  civil  con- 
science" of  Albania,  but  his  work  continued  to  be  published  within 
the  country. 

Human  Rights 

Albanian  citizens  had  few  of  the  guarantees  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  that  have  become  standard  in  Western 
democracies.  A  large  and  very  effective  security  service,  whose  name 
was  changed  in  July  1991  from  the  directorate  of  State  Security 
(Drejtorija  e  Sigurimit  te  Shtetit — Sigurimi)  to  the  National  In- 
formation Service  (NIS),  helped  to  support  the  rule  of  the  com- 
munist party  by  means  of  consistently  violating  citizens'  rights  and 
freedoms.  According  to  Amnesty  International,  political  prisoners 
were  tortured  and  beaten  by  the  Sigurimi  during  investigations, 
and  political  detainees  lacked  adequate  legal  safeguards  during 
pretrial  investigations.  Most  investigations  into  political  offenses 
lasted  for  several  months.  Such  violations  were  described  in  Ka- 
dare 's  literary  works. 

Alia's  regime  took  an  important  step  toward  democracy  in  ear- 
ly May  1990,  when  it  announced  its  desire  to  join  the  Conference 
on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE — see  Glossary), 
while  at  the  same  time  introducing  positive  changes  in  its  legal  sys- 
tem. A  prerequisite  for  membership  in  the  CSCE  is  the  protection 
of  human  rights.  The  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Committee 
had  severely  criticized  Albania  for  its  human  rights  abuses  in  1989, 
and  in  May  1990  the  secretary  general  of  the  United  Nations  (UN) 
visited  Albania  and  discussed  the  issue  of  human  rights.  The  results 
of  these  efforts  were  mixed,  but  in  general  the  leadership  became 
more  tolerant  of  political  dissent. 

Deputy  Prime  Minister  Manush  Myftiu  announced  in  1991  a 
long  list  of  legislative  changes  that  were  designed  to  improve  Al- 
bania's human  rights  record.  Among  the  reforms  were  the  right 
to  a  speedy  trial,  legal  defense,  and  appeal;  the  reduction  of  the 
number  of  crimes  punishable  by  death;  the  right  of  all  nationals 
to  obtain  passports  for  travel  abroad;  and  the  removal  of  loopholes 
in  the  definition  of  crimes  against  the  state.  The  government  also 
eased  its  persecution  of  religious  practice  and  even  allowed  some 
religious  activity  and  "religious  propaganda"  (see  Religion,  ch. 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


2).  Restrictions  on  travel  were  liberalized,  and  the  number  of  pass- 
ports issued  was  increased  significantly.  In  addition,  foreign  broad- 
casts, including  those  from  Voice  of  America,  were  no  longer 
jammed. 

Further  Moves  Toward  Democracy 

The  communist  regime  faced  perhaps  its  most  severe  test  in  early 
July  1990,  when  a  demonstration  by  a  group  of  young  people  in 
Tirane,  the  nation's  capital,  led  about  5,000  to  seek  refuge  in  for- 
eign embassies.  To  defuse  the  crisis,  in  July  1990  the  Central  Com- 
mittee held  a  plenum,  which  resulted  in  significant  changes  in  the 
leadership  of  party  and  state.  The  conservatives  in  the  leadership 
were  pushed  out,  and  Alia's  position  was  strengthened.  Alia  had 
already  called  for  privatizing  retail  trade,  and  many  businesses  had 
begun  to  operate  privately.  Then  in  late  July,  the  Politburo  passed 
a  law  stating  that  collective-farm  members  should  be  given  larger 
plots  of  land  to  farm  individually  (see  Land  Distribution  and 
Agricultural  Organization,  ch.  3). 

In  a  September  1990  speech  to  representatives  of  Albania's  major 
social  and  political  organizations,  Alia  discussed  the  July  crisis  and 
called  for  electoral  reform.  He  noted  that  a  proposed  electoral  law 
would  allow  all  voting  to  take  place  by  secret  ballot  and  that  every 
precinct  would  have  at  least  two  candidates.  The  electors  them- 
selves would  have  the  right  to  propose  candidates  and  anyone  could 
nominate  candidates  for  the  assembly.  Alia  also  criticized  the 
bureaucratic  "routine  and  tranquility"  of  managers  and  state  or- 
ganizations that  were  standing  in  the  way  of  reform. 

Despite  Alia's  efforts  to  proceed  with  change  on  a  limited,  cau- 
tious basis,  reform  from  above  threatened  to  turn  into  reform  from 
below,  largely  because  of  the  increasingly  vocal  demands  of  Alba- 
nia's youth.  On  December  9,  1990,  student  demonstrators  marched 
from  the  Enver  Hoxha  University  at  Tirane  though  the  streets  of 
the  capital  shouting  slogans  and  demanding  an  end  to  dictatorship. 
By  December  1 1 ,  the  number  of  participants  had  reached  almost 
3,000.  In  an  effort  to  quell  the  student  unrest,  which  had  led  to 
clashes  with  riot  police,  Alia  met  with  the  students  and  agreed  to 
take  further  steps  toward  democratization.  The  students  informed 
Alia  that  they  wanted  to  create  an  independent  political  organiza- 
tion of  students  and  youth.  Alia's  response  was  that  such  an  or- 
ganization had  to  be  registered  with  the  Ministry  of  Justice. 

The  student  unrest  was  a  direct  consequence  of  the  radical  trans- 
formations that  were  taking  place  in  Eastern  Europe  and  of  Alia's 
own  democratic  reforms,  which  spurred  the  students  on  to  make 


185 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

more  politicized  demands.  Their  protests  triggered  the  announce- 
ment on  December  11,  1990,  at  the  Thirteenth  Plenum  of  the  APL 
Central  Committee,  that  a  multiparty  system  would  be  introduced 
in  time  for  the  general  elections  that  were  set  for  February  1991. 
The  day  after  the  announcement,  the  country's  first  opposition 
party,  the  Albanian  Democratic  Party  (ADP),  was  formed. 

The  Thirteenth  Plenum  of  the  APL  Central  Committee  also  an- 
nounced an  extensive  shakeup  in  the  party  leadership.  Five  of  the 
eleven  full  members  of  the  Politburo  and  two  alternate  members 
were  replaced.  Among  those  dismissed  was  Foto  Cami,  the  lead- 
ing liberal  ideologist  in  the  APL  leadership.  C ami's  ouster  came 
as  a  surprise  because  he  was  on  close  terms  with  Alia,  but  appar- 
ently Alia  was  dissatisfied  with  his  failure  to  deal  with  the  intellec- 
tuals effectively. 

The  student  unrest  that  began  in  Tirane  gave  rise  to  widespread 
riots  in  four  of  the  largest  cities  in  northern  Albania.  Violent  clashes 
between  demonstrators  and  security  forces  took  place,  resulting  in 
extensive  property  damage  but,  surprisingly,  no  fatalities.  Appar- 
ently Alia  had  given  the  police  strict  orders  to  restrain  themselves 
during  confrontations  with  demonstrators.  However,  Alia  issued 
stern  public  warnings  to  the  protesters  on  television,  claiming  that 
they  had  been  misled  by  foreign  influences  and  opportunistic  in- 
tellectuals. 

The  crisis  was  analyzed  in  the  Albanian  press  in  an  usually  can- 
did manner.  On  December  17,  the  Democratic  Front's  daily 
newspaper,  Bashkimi,  described  what  had  occurred  and  then  warned 
that  such  violence  could  lead  to  a  conservative  backlash,  suggest- 
ing that  conservative  forces  posed  a  real  threat  to  the  process  of 
democratization  in  the  country.  The  outspoken  nature  of  the  arti- 
cle, the  first  instance  of  open  criticism  of  the  security  agencies,  in- 
dicated that  the  government  was  prepared  to  allow  intellectuals  and 
reformers  to  express  their  views  in  the  media.  Later  that  month, 
the  Council  of  Ministers  set  up  a  state  commission  to  draft  a  law 
on  the  media  and  formally  define  their  rights,  thus  reducing  the 
APL's  direct  control  over  the  press.  The  council  also  authorized 
the  first  opposition  newspaper,  Rilindja  Demokratike. 

Another  important  sign  of  democratization  was  the  publication 
on  December  3 1  of  a  draft  interim  constitution  intended  to  replace 
the  constitution  of  1976.  The  draft  completely  omitted  mention  of 
the  APL.  It  introduced  a  system  with  features  similar  to  those  of 
a  parliamentary  democracy,  while  at  the  same  time  strengthening 
the  role  of  the  president,  who  would  be  elected  by  a  new  People's 
Assembly.  The  president  was  to  assume  the  duties  of  commander 
in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  and  chairman  of  the  Defense  Council, 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


positions  previously  held  by  the  party  first  secretary.  Also  on  De- 
cember 3 1 ,  the  government  eased  restrictions  on  private  trade  in 
the  service  and  light  industry  sectors,  indicating  a  general  trend 
toward  a  less  centralized  economy. 

In  his  traditional  New  Year's  message  to  the  Albanian  people, 
Alia  welcomed  the  changes  that  had  been  occurring  in  the  country 
and  claimed  that  1991  would  be  a  turning  point  in  terms  of  the 
economy.  But  despite  positive  signs  of  change,  many  Albanians 
were  still  trying  to  leave  their  country.  At  the  end  of  1990,  as  many 
as  5,000  Albanians  crossed  over  the  mountainous  border  into 
Greece.  Young  people  motivated  by  economic  dissatisfaction  made 
up  the  bulk  of  the  refugees. 

Multiparty  System 

Alia  and  his  political  colleagues  did  not  respond  to  demands  by 
reformers  for  a  multiparty  system  until  the  pressure  became  too 
great  to  resist.  After  the  government  was  finally  forced  to  introduce 
political  pluralism  and  a  multiparty  system,  several  opposition  par- 
ties were  created.  The  first  was  the  Albanian  Democratic  Party 
(ADP),  formed  on  December  12,  1990.  One  of  the  founders  of  the 
party  was  the  thirty-five-year-old  Gramoz  Pashko,  an  economist 
and  a  former  APL  member  and  son  of  a  former  government  offi- 
cial. The  party's  platform  called  for  the  protection  of  human  rights, 
a  free-market  economy,  and  good  relations  with  neighboring  coun- 
tries. At  the  end  of  1990,  the  ADP  started  organizing  rallies  in  var- 
ious cities  intended  to  help  people  overcome  their  fear  of  expressing 
political  views  after  decades  of  authoritarian  control.  Thousands 
of  people  attended  the  rallies.  The  ADP  supported  the  rights  of 
the  large  Albanian  population  in  Kosovo,  a  province  in  the  Serbi- 
an Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  and  advocated  a  reduction  of  the  length 
of  military  service. 

By  early  February  1991,  the  ADP  had  an  estimated  member- 
ship of  50,000  and  was  recognized  as  an  important  political  force 
both  at  home  and  abroad.  The  ADP  was  led  by  a  commission  of 
six  men,  the  most  prominent  of  whom  were  Sali  Berisha,  a  cardi- 
ologist, and  Pashko.  Berisha,  a  strong  nationalist,  vigorously 
defended  the  rights  of  the  Albanian  residents  of  Kosovo,  and  Pashko 
was  an  outspoken  advocate  of  economic  reform.  The  party's 
newspaper,  Rilindja  Demokratike,  was  outspoken  in  its  political  com- 
mentary. Its  first  issue,  which  appeared  on  January  5,  1991,  criti- 
cized the  government  very  aggressively. 

The  second  main  opposition  party,  the  Republican  Party,  headed 
by  Sabri  Godo,  was  founded  in  January  1991.  The  Republican 
Party,  which  soon  had  branches  in  all  districts  of  the  country, 


187 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


advocated  a  more  gradual  approach  to  reform  than  that  espoused 
by  the  ADP.  Several  other  opposition  parties  with  reform  platforms 
were  formed;  they  included  the  Agrarian  Party,  the  Ecology  Party, 
the  National  Unity  Party,  and  the  Social  Democratic  Party. 

Albania  held  its  first  multiparty  elections  since  the  1920s  in  1991 . 
The  elections  were  for  the  250  seats  in  the  unicameral  People's  As- 
sembly. The  first  round  was  held  in  February,  and  runoff  elec- 
tions took  place  on  March  31 ;  a  final  round  was  held  in  April.  Staff 
members  of  the  CSCE  observed  the  voting  and  counting  of  bal- 
lots. They  found  that  the  process  was  orderly,  although  some  com- 
plaints of  irregularities  were  reported.  The  turnout  was  an  extremely 
high  98.9  percent.  The  APL  emerged  as  the  clear  victor,  winning 
some  two-thirds  of  the  seats.  The  margin  enabled  it  to  maintain 
control  of  the  government  and  choose  a  president,  Ramiz  Alia, 
who  had  previously  been  chairman  of  the  Presidium  of  the  earlier 
People's  Assembly. 

The  ADP  captured  30  percent  of  the  seats  in  the  People's  As- 
sembly, as  opposed  to  67.6  percent  acquired  by  the  APL.  Although 
the  APL  bore  the  burden  of  being  the  party  responsible  for  past 
repression  and  the  severe  economic  woes  of  Albania,  it  nonethe- 
less represented  stability  amidst  chaos  to  many  people.  This  fact 
was  particularly  true  in  the  countryside,  where  the  conservative 
peasantry  showed  little  inclination  for  substantial  changes  in  their 
way  of  life.  Another  advantage  for  the  APL  was  its  control  of  most 
of  the  media,  particularly  the  broadcast  media,  to  which  the  op- 
position parties  had  little  access.  It  was  therefore  able  to  manipu- 
late radio  and  television  to  its  advantage. 

Although  many  conservative  leaders  won  election  to  the  Peo- 
ple's Assembly,  Alia  lost  his  seat.  Alia  had  surprised  many  people 
by  adopting  a  new,  apparently  pragmatic,  approach  to  politics  in 
the  months  leading  up  to  the  election.  He  had  faced  a  serious 
challenge  in  mid-February,  when  unrest  erupted  again  among  stu- 
dents at  the  Enver  Hoxha  University  at  Tirane.  Approximately 
700  students  went  on  a  hunger  strike  in  support  of  a  demand  that 
Hoxha' s  name  should  be  removed  from  the  university's  official 
name.  The  demand  was  a  serious  attack  on  the  country's  political 
heritage  and  one  that  Alia  refused  to  countenance.  He  resisted  stu- 
dent demands  and  stressed  the  necessity  of  preserving  law  and  order, 
thereby  antagonizing  those  who  had  expected  him  to  be  more 
moderate. 

In  April  1991 ,  Albania's  new  multiparty  legislature  passed  tran- 
sitional legislation  to  enable  the  country  to  move  ahead  with  key 
political  and  economic  reforms.  The  legislation,  the  Law  on  Major 
Constitutional  Provisions,  was  in  effect  an  interim  constitution, 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


and  the  1976  constitution  was  invalidated.  The  words  "socialist" 
and  "people's"  were  dropped  from  the  official  title  of  Albania,  so 
that  the  country's  name  became  the  Republic  of  Albania.  There 
were  also  fundamental  changes  to  the  political  order.  The  Repub- 
lic of  Albania  was  declared  to  be  a  parliamentary  state  providing 
full  rights  and  freedoms  to  its  citizens  and  observing  separation 
of  powers.  The  People's  Assembly  of  at  least  140  members  elected 
for  a  four-year  term  is  the  legislature  and  is  headed  by  a  presiden- 
cy consisting  of  a  chairman  and  two  deputies.  The  People's  As- 
sembly elects  the  president  of  Albania  by  secret  ballot  and  also  elects 
the  members  of  the  Supreme  Court.  The  president  is  elected  for 
five  years  and  may  not  serve  more  than  two  consecutive  terms  or 
fill  any  other  post  concurrently.  The  president  does,  however,  ex- 
ercise the  duties  of  the  People's  Assembly  when  that  body  is  not 
in  session.  The  Council  of  Ministers  is  the  top  executive  body,  and 
its  membership  is  described  in  the  interim  constitution.  The  law 
on  Major  Constitutional  Provisions  is  to  operate  as  Albania's  basic 
law  until  adoption  of  a  new  constitution,  to  be  drafted  by  a  com- 
mission appointed  by  the  People's  Assembly. 

Although  he  lost  his  seat  in  the  legislature,  the  People's  Assem- 
bly elected  Alia  president.  The  constitutional  changes  of  April  1991 
made  it  obligatory  that  Alia  resign  from  all  of  his  high-level  posts 
in  the  APL  in  order  to  accept  this  post,  and  the  amendments 
depoliticized  other  branches  of  government,  including  the  minis- 
tries of  defense,  foreign  affairs,  and  public  order.  The  People's  As- 
sembly also  gained  regulation  of  the  radio,  television,  and  other 
official  news  media. 

The  Coalition  Government  of  1991 

Prime  Minister  Fatos  Nano,  a  moderate  communist,  did  well  in 
the  spring  1991  elections,  and  he  was  able  to  set  up  a  new  govern- 
ment to  replace  the  provisional  administration  that  he  established 
in  February  1991 .  His  postelection  cabinet  consisted  mostly  of  new 
faces  and  called  for  radical  market  reforms  in  the  economy.  In  out- 
lining his  economic  program  to  the  People's  Assembly,  Nano  present- 
ed an  extremely  bleak  picture  of  the  economy.  He  said  that  the 
economy  was  in  dire  straits  because  of  the  inefficiencies  of  the  highly 
centralized  economic  system  that  had  existed  up  to  that  point,  and 
he  advocated  extensive  privatization  as  a  remedy.  He  also  announced 
government  plans  to  reform  and  streamline  the  armed  forces. 

Nano's  twenty-five-member  cabinet  and  his  progressive  economic 
and  political  program  were  approved  in  early  May  1991.  But  the 
outlook  for  his  administration  was  clouded  by  the  fact  that  a  general 
strike  had  almost  completely  paralyzed  the  country  and  its  economy. 


189 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Indeed,  the  situation  became  so  dire  that  Nano  was  ousted  and  a 
"government  of  national  salvation"  was  created,  in  which  the  com- 
munists were  forced  to  share  power  with  other  parties  in  the  execu- 
tive branch  for  the  first  time  since  the  end  of  World  War  II.  The 
new  government,  led  by  Prime  Minister  Ylli  Bufi,  was  a  coalition  of 
the  communists,  the  ADP,  the  Republican  Party,  the  Social  Demo- 
cratic party,  and  the  Agrarian  Party.  It  took  office  in  June  1991. 

Just  days  later,  also  in  June  1991,  the  Tenth  Party  Congress  of 
the  APL  took  place  in  Tirane.  Delegates  voted  to  change  the  name 
of  the  party  to  the  Socialist  Party  of  Albania  (SPA)  and  elected 
a  reformist  leadership  under  Nano.  Former  Politburo  member 
Xhelil  Gjoni  gave  the  keynote  address  to  the  congress.  He  openly 
attacked  the  late  dictator,  Hoxha,  and  even  went  so  far  as  to  criti- 
cize Alia.  His  speech  was  a  milestone  for  the  Albanian  communists 
and  signified  the  end  of  the  Stalinist  line  pursued  by  the  party  un- 
til that  time.  The  new  program  adopted  by  the  party  stressed  the 
goal  of  making  a  transition  to  a  modern,  democratic  socialist  party. 

Alia  also  gave  a  speech  at  the  party  congress,  in  which  he,  too, 
sanctioned  a  significant  reform  of  the  party.  But  it  appeared  as 
though  he  were  under  a  political  shadow.  By  July  1991,  he  had 
come  under  severe  attack  from  various  political  quarters.  Serious 
and  highly  damaging  allegations  were  made  by  several  of  Alia's 
former  associates.  One  detractor  charged  that  Alia  had  given  orders 
for  police  to  fire  on  unarmed  demonstrators  in  February  1991 ,  and 
others  openly  questioned  his  claims  to  have  started  the  process  of 
democratization  in  Albania.  The  campaign  against  Alia  was  ap- 
parently designed  to  discredit  him  and  force  him  to  step  down. 

In  response,  Alia  made  a  great  effort  to  portray  himself  as  a  real 
reformist.  In  early  August  1991,  he  addressed  the  nation  on  tele- 
vision to  talk  about  the  attempted  coup  in  the  Soviet  Union.  He 
said  that  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev's  ouster  only  encouraged  all  kinds 
of  dictators  and  he  deplored  the  actions  of  the  self-declared  Soviet 
State  Committee  for  the  State  of  Emergency.  The  subsequent  defeat 
of  the  Soviet  coup  was  described  by  Alia  and  others  as  a  victory 
for  the  forces  of  reform. 

An  earlier  sign  that  the  government  was  making  an  attempt  to 
break  with  the  nondemocratic  traditions  of  the  past  was  the  an- 
nouncement in  early  July  that  the  notorious  Sigurimi,  the  Albani- 
an secret  police,  had  been  dissolved  and  replaced  by  a  reformed 
security  organization  (see  Security  Forces,  ch.  5).  The  new  insti- 
tution, the  National  Information  Service  (NIS),  was  to  be  far  more 
attentive  to  individual  rights  than  its  predecessor  had  been.  The 
move  to  disband  the  Sigurimi  and  form  the  NIS  coincided  with 
a  steep  rise  in  crime  and  a  wave  of  Albanians  fleeing  to  Italy,  an 


190 


*  f 

1  / 


Tfttf  forced  return  of  Albanian  refuge-seekers  from  Italy  at  the 

port  of  Durr'es,  June  1991 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

exodus  that  the  NIS  was  unable  to  stem.  The  refugee  problem 
reached  epidemic  proportions  in  August  1991,  with  15,000  Alba- 
nians seeking  asylum  in  Italy;  most  were  later  returned  to  Albania. 

In  many  respects,  Alia  was  a  political  survivor.  He  had  managed 
to  remain  a  key  political  figure  throughout  several  political  crises. 
Although  he  had  some  genuine  concerns  for  stability  and  continuity, 
he  was  not  inflexible.  He  changed  in  response  to  the  circumstances 
and  accommodated  the  demands  of  the  reformers.  Nonetheless, 
with  Albania  in  the  throes  of  a  grave  economic  crisis,  Alia  had  to 
face  challenges  that  he  could  not  surmount.  After  the  collapse  of 
the  coalition  government  in  December  1991  and  the  ADP's  land- 
slide victory  in  the  spring  1992  general  election,  he  resigned  as  presi- 
dent on  April  3,  1992.  On  April  9,  the  People's  Assembly  elected 
ADP  leader  Sali  Berisha  as  Albania's  new  head  of  state. 

Foreign  Policy 

Historically,  Albania's  foreign  policy  objectives  have  not  been 
far-reaching.  Ideology  has  not  been  a  driving  force  in  determining 
Albania's  relations  with  the  outside  world.  Rather,  its  main  con- 
cern has  been  to  preserve  its  territorial  integrity  and  independence. 
The  strategy  pursued  by  Enver  Hoxha  was  to  rely  on  alliances  with 


191 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


communist  states  that  could  give  Albania  large  amounts  of  foreign 
aid  and  at  the  same  support  his  regime.  His  successor,  Alia,  modi- 
fied this  strategy  by  pursuing  a  more  varied  foreign  policy,  reaching 
out  to  a  number  of  Albania's  neighbors. 

Shifting  Alliances 

Several  factors  contributed  to  Albania's  foreign  policy,  but  na- 
tionalism was  probably  the  single  most  important  factor.  Albanian 
nationalism  had  developed  over  years  of  domination  or  threat  of 
domination  by  its  more  powerful  neighbors:  Greece,  Italy,  and  Yu- 
goslavia. The  partition  of  Albania  in  1912,  when  Kosovo  and  other 
Albanian-inhabited  territories  were  lost,  left  the  country  with  a  deep 
sense  of  resentment  and  hostility  to  outsiders.  Traditional  fears  of 
being  dismembered  or  subjugated  by  foreigners  persisted  after 
World  War  II  and  were  aggravated  by  Hoxha's  paranoia  about 
external  enemies. 

To  offset  the  influence  of  Yugoslavia,  Hoxha  made  an  effort  to 
improve  relations  with  the  Western  powers,  but  was  largely  unsuc- 
cessful. Following  the  1946  purge  of  Sejfulla  Maleshova,  the  leader 
of  the  party  faction  that  advocated  moderation  in  foreign  and 
domestic  policy,  Albania's  relations  with  the  West  deteriorated, 
and  both  the  United  States  and  Britain  withdrew  their  foreign 
envoys  from  Tirane.  Albania's  application  to  join  the  UN  was  also 
rejected  (Albania  did  join  the  UN  in  December  1955).  Hoxha  made 
peace  with  Josip  Broz  Tito,  Yugoslavia's  president,  and  in  July 
1946  signed  the  Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual 
Aid  with  Yugoslavia.  Yugoslav  influence  over  Albania's  party  and 
government  increased  considerably  between  1945  and  1948.  Yugo- 
slavia came  to  dominate  political,  economic,  military,  and  cultural 
life  in  Albania,  and  plans  were  even  made  to  merge  the  two 
countries. 

Yugoslavia's  expulsion  from  the  Cominform  (see  Glossary)  in 
1948  gave  Hoxha  an  opportunity  to  reverse  this  situation,  mak- 
ing his  country  the  first  in  Eastern  Europe  to  condemn  Yugo- 
slavia. The  treaty  of  friendship  with  Yugoslavia  was  abrogated; 
Yugoslav  advisers  were  forced  out  of  Albania;  and  Xoxe,  the 
minister  of  internal  affairs  and  head  of  the  secret  police,  was  tried 
and  executed,  along  with  hundreds  of  other  "Titoists. "  As  a  result 
of  these  changes,  Albania  became  a  full-fledged  member  of  the 
Soviet  sphere  of  influence,  playing  a  key  role  in  Stalin's  strategy 
of  isolating  Yugoslavia.  In  1949  Albania  joined  the  Council  for 
Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (Comecon — see  Glossary)  and 
proceeded  with  a  program  of  rapid,  Soviet-style,  centralized  eco- 
nomic development. 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


Tirane's  close  relations  with  Moscow  lasted  until  1955,  when 
the  post-Stalin  leadership  began  pursuing  a  policy  of  rapproche- 
ment with  Yugoslavia.  As  part  of  the  de-Stalinization  process, 
Moscow  began  to  pressure  Tirane  to  moderate  its  belligerent  atti- 
tude toward  Yugoslavia  and  relax  its  internal  policies.  Hoxha 
managed  to  withstand  this  challenge  and  to  resist  the  pressure  to 
de-Stalinize,  despite  the  fact  that  the  Soviet  Union  resorted  to  pu- 
nitive economic  measures  that  caused  Albania  considerable  hard- 
ship. In  1960  the  Soviets  attempted  to  engineer  a  coup  against 
Hoxha,  but  were  unsuccessful  because  Hoxha  had  learned  of  their 
plans  in  advance  and  had  purged  all  pro-Soviet  elements  in  the 
party  and  government. 

By  1 960  Albania  was  already  looking  elsewhere  for  political  sup- 
port and  improving  its  relations  with  China.  In  December  1961, 
the  Soviet  Union,  while  embroiled  in  a  deep  rift  with  China,  broke 
diplomatic  relations  with  Albania,  and  other  East  European  coun- 
tries sharply  curtailed  their  contacts  with  Albania  as  well.  Through- 
out the  1960s,  Albania  and  China,  countries  that  shared  a  common 
bond  of  alienation  from  the  Soviet  Union,  responded  by  maintain- 
ing very  close  domestic  and  foreign  ties.  China  gave  Albania  a  great 
deal  of  economic  aid  and  assistance,  while  the  latter  acted  as  Chi- 
na's representative  at  international  forums  from  which  the  Chinese 
were  excluded.  Although  Tirane's  break  with  Moscow  had  been 
very  costly  in  economic  terms,  Albania  made  no  effort  to  reestab- 
lish ties  with  the  Soviet  Union.  In  an  address  to  the  Fifth  Con- 
gress of  the  APL  in  November  1966,  Hoxha  made  it  clear  that 
Albania  intended  to  stay  close  to  China. 

The  1968  Soviet  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia,  however,  marked 
the  beginning  of  a  gradual  estrangement  between  Albania  and  Chi- 
na, primarily  because  Hoxha  realized  that  an  increased  Soviet  mili- 
tary threat  could  not  be  offset  by  an  alliance  with  a  country  that 
was  far  away  and  militarily  weak  relative  to  the  superpowers.  Hoxha 
sanctioned  a  cautious  opening  toward  neighboring  countries  such 
as  Yugoslavia  and  Greece,  although  he  continued  to  be  concerned 
about  the  domestic  effects  of  moving  too  far  from  foreign  policy 
that  excluded  all  countries  except  China. 

Another  cause  of  the  estrangement  was  the  realization  that 
Chinese  aid  was  not  enough  to  prevent  Albania  from  having  serious 
economic  problems.  Albania's  experience  with  financial  assistance 
from  communist  powers  from  1945  to  1978  had  begun  to  make 
it  wary  of  becoming  so  dependent  on  any  outside  entity.  A  chill 
in  relations  with  China  began  to  occur  following  the  death  of  Mao 
Zedong  in  September  1976,  and  in  July  1978  China  terminated 


193 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

all  economic  and  military  aid  to  Albania,  an  action  that  left  Alba- 
nia without  a  foreign  protector. 

In  the  late  1970s,  Albania  embarked  on  a  policy  of  rigid  self- 
reliance.  Having  broken  ties  with  the  two  leading  communist  states, 
Albania  aspired  to  total  economic  independence  and  declared  it- 
self the  only  genuine  Marxist-Leninist  country  in  the  world.  The 
government  was  actually  forbidden  to  seek  foreign  aid  and  credits 
or  to  encourage  foreign  investment  in  the  country.  Hoxha  rigidly 
adhered  to  Marxism-Leninism,  seeing  the  world  as  divided  into 
two  opposing  systems — socialism  and  capitalism.  But  he  also  led 
Albania  in  a  two-front  struggle  against  both  United  States  ''im- 
perialism" and  Soviet  "social-imperialism."  For  example,  Alba- 
nia refused  to  participate  in  CSC E  talks  or  sign  the  Helsinki  Accords 
(see  Glossary)  in  1975  because  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet 
Union  had  initiated  the  negotiating  process. 

Changes  in  the  1980s 

Hoxha  had  basically  used  the  threat  of  external  enemies  to  justify 
a  repressive  internal  policy.  His  primary  goal  was  to  stay  in  pow- 
er, and  an  isolationist  foreign  policy  suited  this  goal.  But  some  mem- 
bers of  the  APL  leadership  began  to  question  the  efficacy  of  such 
a  policy,  particularly  in  view  of  its  adverse  economic  consequences. 
At  the  end  of  the  1970s,  Hoxha  was  pressured  into  sanctioning  a 
cautious  effort  to  strengthen  bilateral  relations  with  Albania's  neigh- 
bors, in  particular  Yugoslavia.  Bilateral  cultural  contacts  between 
the  two  countries  increased,  and  by  1980  Yugoslavia  had  replaced 
China  as  Albania's  main  trading  partner.  In  the  early  1980s, 
however,  Yugoslavia's  military  suppression  of  ethnic  Albanians 
demonstrating  in  the  province  of  Kosovo  led  to  a  chill  in  Albanian- 
Yugoslav  relations.  Approximately  two  million  ethnic  Albanians 
lived  in  Kosovo,  and  Albania  supported  Kosovo's  demands  that 
it  be  granted  the  status  of  a  republic.  Yugoslavia  responded  by  ac- 
cusing Albania  of  interfering  in  its  internal  affairs,  and  cultural 
and  economic  contacts  were  severely  reduced.  Trade  between  the 
two  countries  stagnated. 

In  the  early  1980s,  a  diplomatic  shift  toward  Italy,  Greece,  and 
Turkey  occurred.  In  November  1984,  Alia,  as  Hoxha' s  heir  ap- 
parent, gave  a  speech  in  which  he  expressed  an  interest  in  expanding 
relations  with  West  European  countries.  He  noted  that  "Albania 
is  a  European  country  and  as  such  it  is  vitally  interested  in  what 
is  occurring  on  that  continent."  Relations  with  Italy  and  Greece 
became  noticeably  stronger  in  the  early  and  mid-1980s.  In  1983 
Albania  signed  an  agreement  with  Italy  on  establishing  a  maritime 
link  between  the  ports  of  Durres  and  Trieste.  The  two  countries 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


also  ratified  a  long-term  trade  agreement,  whereby  Albania  would 
send  Italy  raw  materials  in  exchange  for  industrial  technology.  Al- 
bania entered  into  a  long-term  economic  accord  with  Greece  in 
December  1984,  and  the  two  countries  also  signed  a  series  of  agree- 
ments on  road  transportation,  cultural  exchanges,  scientific  and 
technological  cooperation,  telecommunications,  and  postal  services. 
Albania's  closer  relations  with  Italy  and  Greece  caused  Yugosla- 
via concern,  primarily  because  it  appeared  preferable  to  Belgrade 
to  have  Albania  isolated.  But  Albania  worried  that  West  European 
countries  would  allow  Yugoslavia  to  dictate  its  policies  if  it  failed 
to  develop  strong  relations  with  other  countries  in  the  region. 

Alia's  Pragmatism 

On  succeeding  to  Hoxha's  party  leadership  post  in  1985,  Alia 
reassessed  Albania's  foreign  policy.  He  realized  that  it  was  imper- 
ative for  Albania  to  expand  its  contacts  with  the  outside  world  if 
it  were  to  improve  its  economic  situation.  He  was  eager  in  particu- 
lar to  introduce  Western  technology,  although  limited  foreign- 
currency  reserves  and  constitutional  bans  on  foreign  loans  and 
credits  restricted  Albania's  ability  to  import  technology. 

Alia's  public  statements  indicated  that  in  pursuing  his  country's 
foreign  policy  objectives  he  would  be  less  rigid  than  his  predeces- 
sor and  put  political  and  economic  concerns  ahead  of  ideological 
ones.  Thus,  at  the  seventy-fifth  anniversary  of  Albania's  indepen- 
dence in  1987,  Alia  stated,  "We  do  not  hesitate  to  cooperate  with 
others  and  we  do  not  fear  their  power  and  wealth.  On  the  con- 
trary, we  seek  such  cooperation  because  we  consider  it  a  factor  that 
will  contribute  to  our  internal  development." 

In  February  1988,  Albania  participated  in  the  Balkan  Foreign 
Ministers  Conference,  held  in  Belgrade.  The  participation  was  a 
clear  sign  of  a  new  flexibility  in  Albania's  foreign  policy.  During 
the  1960s  and  1970s,  Albania  had  refused  all  regional  attempts  to 
engage  in  multilateral  cooperation,  but  Alia  was  determined  to  end 
Albania's  isolation  and  return  his  country  to  the  mainstream  of 
world  politics.  This  new  approach  entailed  an  improvement  of  re- 
lations with  Yugoslavia.  Indeed,  Alia  apparently  realized  that  Al- 
bania had  nothing  to  gain  from  confrontation  with  Yugoslavia  over 
the  Kosovo  issue,  and  he  ceased  endorsing  Kosovar  demands  for 
republic  status  in  his  public  statements.  The  government's  con- 
ciliatory approach  to  Yugoslavia  was  expressed  fully  in  a  declara- 
tion by  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Reis  Malile  at  the  conference. 
Malile  said  that  the  status  of  Kosovo  was  an  internal  Yugoslav 
problem. 


195 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Trade  and  economic  cooperation  between  Albania  and  Yugo- 
slavia increased  greatly  toward  the  end  of  the  1980s.  But  Kosovo 
again  became  a  source  of  tension  when  the  Yugoslav  government 
imposed  special  security  measures  on  the  province  and  dispatched 
army  and  militia  units  in  February  and  March  1989.  These  ac- 
tions resulted  in  violent  clashes  between  Yugoslav  security  forces 
and  the  Albanian  inhabitants  of  Kosovo.  Albania  denounced  Yu- 
goslavia's 4 'chauvinist  policy"  toward  Kosovo  and  noted  that  if 
the  oppression  continued,  it  would  adversely  affect  relations  be- 
tween Albania  and  Yugoslavia.  For  its  part,  Yugoslavia  threatened 
to  close  down  Albania's  only  rail  link  to  the  outside  world,  a  move 
that  would  have  caused  great  hardship  to  Albania.  In  December 
1989,  a  Yugoslav  newspaper  reported  alleged  unrest  in  northern 
Albania;  President  Alia  denounced  this  report  and  similar  ones  as 
a  foreign  *  'campaign  of  slander"  against  Albania.  He  denied  reports 
of  unrest  and  said  that  Yugoslavia  was  trying  to  stir  up  trouble 
to  divert  attention  from  ethnic  troubles  in  Kosovo. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Albania  began  to  strengthen  further  its  rela- 
tions with  Greece.  The  substantial  Greek  minority  in  Albania  moti- 
vated Greek  concern  for  better  communications  with  Albania  (see 
Ethnicity,  ch.  2).  It  was  especially  important  for  Greece  that  Al- 
banian nationals  who  were  ethnically  Greek  should  be  allowed  to 
practice  the  Greek  Orthodox  religion.  Greece  offered  Albania  hopes 
of  economic  and  political  ties  that  would  offset  the  deterioration 
in  relations  with  Yugoslavia.  Albania  and  Greece  had  already  signed 
a  military  protocol  on  the  maintenance  and  repair  of  border  mark- 
ers in  July  1985.  In  August  1987,  Greece  officially  lifted  its  state 
of  war  with  Albania,  which  had  existed  since  World  War  II,  when 
Italy  had  launched  its  attack  on  Greece  from  Albanian  territory. 
In  November  1987,  the  Greek  prime  minister  visited  Tirane  to  sign 
a  series  of  agreements  with  Albania,  including  a  long-term  agree- 
ment on  economic,  industrial,  technical,  and  scientific  coopera- 
tion. In  April  1988,  the  two  countries  set  up  a  ferry  link  between 
the  Greek  island  of  Corfu  and  the  Albanian  city  of  Sarande.  In 
late  1989,  however,  their  relations  began  to  worsen  when  some 
Greek  politicians  began  to  express  concern  about  the  fate  of  the 
Greek  minority  in  Albania,  and  a  war  of  words  began.  This  hostility 
marked  a  sharp  departure  from  the  trend  over  the  previous  decade. 

Albania's  relations  with  both  Turkey  and  Italy  improved  after 
the  death  of  Hoxha.  In  May  1985,  Prime  Minister  Qarcani  sent 
a  message  to  the  Italian  prime  minister,  Bettino  Craxi,  stating  that 
he  hoped  cooperation  between  the  two  countries  could  be  increased. 
In  late  1985,  however,  there  was  a  slight  setback  in  Italian- Albanian 
relations  when  six  Albanian  citizens  sought  refuge  in  the  Italian 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


Embassy  in  Tirane  and  the  two  countries  found  it  difficult  to  set- 
tle the  dilemma.  The  six  were  allowed  to  remain  in  the  embassy 
until  Albania  finally  gave  assurances  that  they  would  not  be  per- 
secuted. 

An  important  step  toward  ending  Albania's  isolation  and  im- 
proving its  relationships  with  its  neighbors  was  Tirane 's  offer  to 
host  the  Balkan  Foreign  Ministers  Conference  in  October  1990. 
The  conference  was  a  follow-up  to  the  Belgrade  conference  of  1 988 
and  was  the  first  international  political  gathering  to  take  place  in 
Albania  since  the  communists  came  to  power.  The  conference  came 
at  a  good  time  for  the  Albanian  leadership,  which  was  attempting 
to  project  a  new  image  abroad  in  keeping  with  the  democratic 
changes  beginning  to  take  place  within  the  country.  For  Albania 
it  was  an  opportunity  to  increase  its  prestige  and  boost  its  interna- 
tional image  in  the  hopes  of  becoming  a  full-fledged  member  of 
the  CSCE.  In  fact,  the  latter  aim  was  not  achieved  by  the  confer- 
ence, and  it  was  not  until  June  1991,  after  a  visit  by  CSCE  staff 
members  to  observe  Albania's  first  multiparty  elections,  that  Al- 
bania was  accepted  as  a  full  member  of  the  CSCE. 

Albania  Seeks  New  Allies 

By  the  mid-1980s,  Alia  recognized  that  in  order  to  ameliorate 
Albania's  serious  economic  problems,  trade  with  the  West  had  to 
be  significandy  expanded.  The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany)  was  on  the  top  of  the  list  of  potential  economic  part- 
ners. In  1987  Albania  established  diplomatic  relations  with  West 
Germany,  after  first  dropping  claims  for  war  reparations.  Albania 
hoped  to  obtain  advanced  technology  from  West  Germany,  along 
with  assistance  in  improving  its  agricultural  sector  and  moderniz- 
ing its  transportation  system.  In  November  1987,  Albania  signed 
an  agreement  with  West  Germany,  which  enabled  it  to  purchase 
West  German  goods  at  below  market  prices;  and  in  March  1989, 
West  Germany  granted  Albania  20  million  deutsche  marks  in  non- 
repayable funds  for  development  projects. 

Albania  initiated  discussions  with  many  private  Western  firms 
concerning  the  acquisition  of  advanced  technology  and  purchase 
of  modern  industrial  plants.  It  also  asked  for  technical  assistance 
in  locating  and  exploiting  oil  deposits  off  its  coast.  But  the  problems 
for  Albania  in  pursuing  these  economic  aims  were  considerable. 
The  main  problem  was  Albania's  critical  shortage  of  foreign  cur- 
rency, a  factor  that  caused  Albania  to  resort  to  barter  to  pay  for 
imported  goods.  Tied  to  this  problem  was  the  economy's  central- 
ized planning  mechanism,  which  inhibited  the  production  of  ex- 
port commodities  because  enterprises  had  no  incentive  to  increase 


197 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  country's  foreign-exchange  earnings.  An  even  greater  problem 
until  the  1990s  was  the  provision  in  the  1976  Albanian  constitu- 
tion prohibiting  the  government  from  accepting  foreign  aid. 

In  addition  to  paying  more  attention  to  Albania's  close  neigh- 
bors and  Western  Europe,  Alia  advocated  a  reassessment  of  rela- 
tions with  other  East  European  countries.  A  more  flexible  attitude 
was  adopted,  and  relations  with  the  German  Democratic  Repub- 
lic (East  Germany),  Czechoslovakia,  and  Bulgaria  significantly  im- 
proved in  the  late  1980s.  In  June  1989,  the  East  German  foreign 
minister  Oskar  Fischer  visited  Albania;  he  was  the  first  senior  official 
from  the  Soviet  bloc  to  visit  the  country  since  the  early  1960s.  Alia 
personally  received  Fischer,  and  a  number  of  key  agreements  were 
signed  that  led  to  expanded  cooperation  in  industry  and  the  train- 
ing of  specialists.  By  1990  long-term  trade  agreements  had  been 
signed  with  most  East  European  states.  The  Comecon  countries 
were  willing  to  accept  Albania's  shoddy  manufactured  goods  and 
its  low-quality  produce  for  political  reasons.  After  1990,  however, 
when  these  countries  were  converting  to  market  economies,  they 
no  longer  had  the  same  willingness,  which  made  it  considerably 
more  difficult  for  Albania  to  obtain  much-needed  foreign  curren- 
cy. The  Albanian  media,  nonetheless,  greeted  the  revolutions  in 
Eastern  Europe  with  favor,  covering  events  with  an  unusual  amount 
of  objectivity.  The  government  in  Tirane  was  among  the  first  to 
attack  Romanian  dictator  Nicolae  Ceau§escu  and  to  recognize  the 
new  government  in  Romania.  As  far  as  the  Soviet  Union  was  con- 
cerned, however,  Albania  continued  to  be  highly  critical  of  its  form- 
er ally  and  denounced  Gorbachev's  policy  of  perestroika.  Apparently 
Albania  was  also  concerned  about  what  it  saw  as  Soviet  support 
for  Yugoslavia's  handling  of  the  Kosovo  issue.  Nevertheless,  the 
Soviet  Union  continued  to  call  for  improved  relations  with  Albania. 

Albania's  attitude  toward  the  United  States  traditionally  had  been 
very  hostile.  Relations  with  Washington  were  broken  in  1946,  when 
Albania's  communist  regime  refused  to  adhere  to  prewar  treaties 
and  obligations.  Alia  showed  a  different  inclination,  however,  af- 
ter a  visit  to  Tirane  in  1989  by  some  prominent  Albanian  Ameri- 
cans, who  impressed  him  with  their  desire  to  promote  the  Albanian 
cause.  In  mid-February  1990,  the  Albanian  government  reversed 
its  long-standing  policy  of  having  no  relations  with  the  superpow- 
ers. A  leading  Albanian  government  official  announced:  "We  will 
have  relations  with  any  state  that  responds  to  our  friendship  with 
friendship."  No  formal  contacts  between  the  United  States  and 
Albania  existed  until  1990,  when  diplomats  began  a  series  of  meet- 
ings that  led  to  a  resumption  of  relations.  On  March  15,  1991, 
a  memorandum  of  understanding  was  signed  in  Washington 


198 


Statue  of  Stalin  in 
storage  in  Tirarie 
Courtesy  Fred  Conrad 


reestablishing  diplomatic  relations  between  the  two  countries.  Unit- 
ed States  secretary  of  state  James  Baker  visited  Albania  in  June 
1991 ,  following  the  CSCE  meeting  in  Berlin  at  which  Albania  was 
granted  CSCE  membership.  During  his  visit,  Baker  informed  the 
Albanian  government  that  the  United  States  was  prepared  to  pro- 
vide Albania  with  approximately  US$6  million  worth  of  assistance. 
He  announced  that  the  United  States  welcomed  the  democratic 
changes  that  were  taking  place  in  Albania  and  promised  that  if  Al- 
bania took  concrete  steps  toward  political  and  free-market  reforms, 
the  United  States  would  be  prepared  to  offer  further  assistance. 

Alia's  pragmatism  was  also  reflected  in  Albania's  policy  toward 
China  and  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Albanian  Deputy  Minister  of 
Foreign  Affairs  made  an  official  visit  to  China  in  March  1989,  and 
the  visit  was  reciprocated  in  August  1990.  On  July  30,  1990,  Al- 
bania and  the  Soviet  Union  signed  a  protocol  normalizing  rela- 
tions, which  had  been  suspended  for  the  previous  twenty- nine  years. 
The  Soviet- Albanian  Friendship  Society  was  reactivated,  and  Alia 
met  with  the  Soviet  foreign  minister,  Eduard  Shevardnadze,  when 
they  were  both  in  New  York  to  visit  the  United  Nations  in  Sep- 
tember 1990.  No  longer  were  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet 
Union  considered  to  be  Albania's  most  dangerous  enemies. 

Alia's  trip  to  the  UN  was  the  first  time  that  an  Albanian  head 
of  state  had  attended  an  official  meeting  in  the  West.  The  purpose 
of  the  trip  was  to  demonstrate  to  the  world  that  Albania  had  a 


199 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

pragmatic  and  new  foreign  policy.  While  at  the  UN,  Alia  delivered 
a  major  foreign  policy  address  to  the  General  Assembly  in  which 
he  described  the  changes  that  had  taken  place  in  Albania's  foreign 
policy  and  emphasized  that  his  country  wanted  to  play  a  more  ac- 
tive role  in  world  events.  In  his  address,  Alia  discussed  the  ongo- 
ing efforts  of  the  Albanian  leadership  to  adjust  the  external  and 
internal  politics  of  Albania  to  the  realities  of  the  postcommunist 
world. 

The  internal  politics  of  Albania,  driven  by  a  collapsed  econo- 
my, social  instability,  and  democratic  ferment,  portend  continued 
changes  in  the  institutions  of  government  in  the  early  to  mid-1990s 
and  in  the  relationship  between  the  country's  leaders  and  its  citizens. 

*    *  * 

Materials  on  Albania  are  not  as  readily  available  as  those  on  other 
countries  in  Eastern  Europe.  Nonetheless,  a  few  useful  monographs 
on  Albanian  politics  and  government  have  appeared.  The  Albani- 
ans: Europe's  Forgotten  Survivors,  by  Anton  Logoreci,  and  Socialist  Al- 
bania since  1944,  by  Peter  R.  Prifti,  both  of  which  were  published 
during  the  1970s,  provide  useful  accounts  of  political  developments 
in  Albania  since  World  War  II.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick,  by  Elez 
Biberaj,  offers  a  more  up-to-date  picture  of  the  political  scene  in 
Albania,  pointing  out  the  positive  and  negative  aspects  of  the 
changes  taking  place  there.  Among  the  more  useful  articles  on  Al- 
banian politics  is  Biberaj 's  ' 'Albania  at  the  Crossroads,"  which 
analyzes  political  events  in  1991  and  offers  a  perspective  on  what 
might  be  expected  for  Albania's  future.  Also  of  value  are  the  regular 
articles  on  Albanian  politics  by  Louis  Zanga,  appearing  in  the 
Munich  weekly  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  published  by  Radio  Free 
Europe/Radio  Liberty.  (For  further  information  and  complete  ci- 
tations, see  Bibliography.) 


200 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


The  black,  double-headed  eagle,  a  traditional  symbol  of  Albania 


ALBANIA  BECAME  INDEPENDENT  in  1912  when  the  Great 
Powers  of  Europe  decided  that  its  formation  would  enhance  the 
balance  of  power  on  the  continent.  Small,  weak,  and  isolated,  Al- 
bania faced  persistent  threats  of  domination,  dismemberment,  or 
partition  by  more  powerful  neighbors,  but  struggled  to  maintain 
its  independence  and  territorial  integrity  through  successive  alli- 
ances with  Italy,  Yugoslavia  (see  Glossary),  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
China.  The  Albanian  Communist  Party  (ACP— from  1948  the  Al- 
banian Party  of  Labor)  used  the  perception  of  a  country  under  siege 
to  mobilize  the  population,  establish  political  legitimacy,  and  justify 
domestic  repression.  Yet  it  claimed  success  in  that,  under  its  rule, 
Albania's  allies  guaranteed  its  defense  against  external  threats  and 
were  increasingly  less  able  to  dominate  it  or  interfere  in  its  inter- 
nal affairs.  After  a  period  of  isolation  between  1978  and  1985, 
however,  Albania  looked  to  improved  relations  with  its  neighbors 
to  enhance  its  security. 

The  modern  armed  forces  grew  out  of  the  partisan  bands  of 
World  War  II,  which  fought  the  Italians  and  Germans  as  well  as 
rivals  within  the  resistance.  By  the  time  the  Germans  withdrew 
their  forces  from  Albania  in  November  1944,  the  communist-led 
National  Liberation  Front  (NLF)  held  the  dominant  position  among 
the  partisan  groups  and  was  able  to  assume  control  of  the  country 
without  fighting  any  major  battles.  The  armed  forces  in  1992  were 
under  the  control  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense,  and  all  branches  were 
included  within  the  People's  Army.  Total  active-duty  personnel 
strength  was  about  48,000  in  1991 .  Most  troops  were  conscripted, 
and  approximately  one-half  of  the  eligible  recruits  were  drafted, 
usually  at  age  nineteen.  The  tanks,  aircraft,  and  other  weapons 
and  equipment  in  the  inventory  of  the  armed  forces  were  of  Soviet 
or  Chinese  design  and  manufacture.  The  People's  Army,  consist- 
ing of  professional  officers,  conscripted  soldiers,  mobilized  reserves, 
and  citizens  with  paramilitary  training,  was  organized  to  mount 
a  limited  territorial  defense  and  extended  guerrilla  warfare  against 
a  foreign  aggressor  and  occupation  army.  However,  it  remained 
the  weakest  army  in  Europe  in  early  1992. 

Albania  lacked  the  industrial  or  economic  base  to  maintain  its 
army  independently  and  required  external  assistance  to  support 
its  modest  armed  forces.  After  World  War  II,  it  relied  on  Yugo- 
slavia and  the  Soviet  Union,  in  turn,  for  military  assistance.  When 
Albania  split  from  the  Soviet  Union  in  1961,  China  became  its  main 


203 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

ally  and  supplier  of  military  equipment.  Chinese  assistance  was 
sufficient  to  maintain  equipment  previously  furnished  by  the  Soviet 
Union  and  to  replace  some  of  the  older  weapons  as  they  became 
obsolete.  However,  this  aid  was  curtailed  in  1978,  and  Albania 
lacked  a  major  external  patron  after  that  time. 

After  becoming  first  secretary  of  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor 
and  president  of  Albania  when  longtime  leader  Enver  Hoxha  died 
in  1985,  Ramiz  Alia  gradually  relaxed  the  Stalinist  system  of  po- 
litical terror  and  coercion  established  and  maintained  by  his 
predecessor.  The  impact  of  changes  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  the 
subsequent  collapse  of  communism  in  Eastern  Europe,  particularly 
in  Romania,  combined  to  increase  pressure  for  internal  liberali- 
zation in  Albania  during  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s. 

The  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  controlled  the  police  and  secu- 
rity forces  until  it  was  abolished  and  replaced  by  the  Ministry  of 
Public  Order  in  April  1991.  Although  details  of  the  organization 
of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Order  were  not  generally  known,  some 
observers  believed  it  had  the  same  basic  components  as  its  predeces- 
sor. They  were  the  National  Information  Service  (successor  to  the 
hated  Sigurimi,  more  formally  Drejtoria  e  Sigurimit  te  Shtetit  or 
Directorate  of  State  Security),  the  Frontier  Guards,  and  the  Peo- 
ple's Police. 

The  security  forces  traditionally  exerted  even  more  rigid  con- 
trols over  the  population  than  those  exercised  by  similar  forces  in 
other  East  European  states.  However,  under  Alia  they  did  not  en- 
force the  communist  order  as  they  had  when  Hoxha  ruled  Alba- 
nia. Alia  curtailed  some  of  their  more  repressive  practices,  and  they 
ultimately  failed  to  protect  the  regime  when  the  communist  party's 
monopoly  on  power  was  threatened  in  1 990  and  ended  in  1991. 
In  large  part,  that  threat  came  from  a  crippled  economy,  short- 
ages of  food  and  medicine,  manifestations  of  new  political  freedoms 
(including  strikes  and  massive  public  demonstrations  that  occurred 
with  impunity),  and  calls  by  the  new  democratic  movement  for 
eliminating  repression  by  the  security  forces,  releasing  political 
prisoners,  and  establishing  respect  for  human  rights. 

Development  of  the  Armed  Forces 

Albania's  military  heritage  antedating  World  War  II  is  high- 
lighted by  the  exploits  of  its  fifteenth-century  national  hero  known 
as  Skanderbeg,  who  gained  a  brief  period  of  independence  for 
the  country  during  his  opposition  to  the  Ottoman  Empire  (see 
Glossary).  In  the  seventeenth  century,  many  ethnic  Albanians,  most 
notably  members  of  the  Koprulu  family,  served  with  great  dis- 
tinction in  the  Ottoman  army  and  administration  (see  Albanians 


204 


National  Security 


under  Ottoman  Rule,  ch.  1).  National  feelings,  aroused  late  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  became  more  intense  during  the  early  twen- 
tieth century,  and  fairly  sizable  armed  groups  of  Albanians  rebelled 
against  their  Ottoman  rulers.  However,  Albania  achieved  national 
independence  in  1912  as  a  result  of  agreement  among  the  Great 
Powers  of  Europe  rather  than  through  a  major  military  victory  or 
armed  struggle. 

Hardy  Albanian  mountaineers  have  had  a  reputation  as  ex- 
cellent fighters  for  nearly  2,000  years.  Nevertheless,  they  rarely 
fought  in  an  organized  manner  for  an  objective  beyond  the  defense 
of  tribal  areas  against  incursions  by  marauding  neighbors.  Oc- 
casions were  few  when  Albanians  rose  up  against  occupying  for- 
eign powers.  Conquerors  generally  left  the  people  alone  in  their 
isolated  mountain  homelands,  and,  because  a  feudal  tribal  society 
persisted,  little,  if  any,  sense  of  national  unity  or  loyalty  to  an 
Albanian  nation  developed  (see  Traditional  Social  Patterns  and 
Values,  ch.  2). 

The  Romans  recruited  some  of  their  best  soldiers  from  the  regions 
that  later  became  Albania.  The  territory  of  modern  Albania  was 
part  of  the  Byzantine  Empire,  and  the  Bui  gars,  Venetians,  and 
Serbs  took  turns  contesting  their  control  of  Albania  between  the 
tenth  and  the  fourteenth  centuries.  As  the  power  of  the  Byzantine 
Empire  waned,  the  forerunners  of  modern  Albania  joined  forces 
with  the  Serbs  and  other  Balkan  peoples  to  prevent  the  encroach- 
ment of  the  Ottoman  Empire  into  southeastern  Europe.  The  Ot- 
toman victory  over  their  combined  forces  at  Kosovo  Polje  in  1389, 
however,  ushered  in  an  era  of  Ottoman  control  over  the  Balkans. 

The  Albanian  hero  Skanderbeg,  born  Gjergj  Kastrioti  and  re- 
named Skanderbeg  after  Alexander  the  Great,  was  one  of  the  janis- 
saries (see  Glossary)  who  became  famous  fighting  for  the  Ottoman 
Turks  in  Serbia  and  Hungary.  He  was  almost  exclusively  respon- 
sible for  the  one  period  of  Albanian  independence  before  1912. 
Although  it  endured  for  twenty-four  years,  this  brief  period  of  in- 
dependence ended  about  a  decade  after  his  death  in  1468.  In  1443 
Skanderbeg  rebelled  against  his  erstwhile  masters  and  established 
Albania's  independence  with  the  assistance  of  the  Italian  city-state 
of  Venice.  He  repulsed  several  Ottoman  attempts  to  reconquer  Al- 
bania until  his  death.  The  Ottoman  Turks  soon  recaptured  most 
of  Albania,  seized  the  Venetian  coastal  ports  in  Albania,  and  even 
crossed  the  Italian  Alps  and  raided  Venice.  The  Ottomans  retook 
the  last  Venetian  garrison  in  Albania  at  Shkoder  in  1479,  but  the 
Venetians  continued  to  dispute  Ottoman  control  of  Albania  and 
its  contiguous  waters  for  at  least  the  next  four  centuries.  Albanian 


205 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


soldiers  continued  to  serve  in  the  military  forces  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Mediterranean  into  the  nineteenth 
century. 

From  Independence  to  World  War  II 

Organized  military  action  had  a  negligible  effect  in  Albania's 
attaining  national  independence.  Some  revolutionary  activity  oc- 
curred during  the  rise  of  Albanian  nationalism  in  the  late  nineteenth 
and  early  twentieth  centuries.  Albanian  insurgents  and  Ottoman 
forces  clashed  as  early  as  1884,  but  although  Albanians  resisted 
Ottoman  oppression  against  themselves,  they  supported  the  Otto- 
man Turks  in  their  hostilities  with  the  Greeks  and  Slavs. 

By  1901  about  8,000  armed  Albanians  were  assembled  in 
Shkoder,  but  a  situation  resembling  anarchy  more  than  revolution 
prevailed  in  the  country  during  the  early  1900s.  There  were  inci- 
dents of  banditry  and  pillage,  arrests,  and  many  futile  Ottoman 
efforts  to  restore  order.  Guerrilla  activity  increased  after  1906,  and 
there  were  several  incidents  that  produced  martyrs  but  were  not 
marked  by  great  numbers  of  casualties.  Although  it  was  disor- 
ganized and  never  assumed  the  proportions  of  a  serious  struggle, 
the  resistance  was,  nevertheless,  instrumental  in  maintaining  the 
pressure  that  brought  international  attention  to  the  aspirations  of 
Albanian  nationalists,  who  proclaimed  Albania's  independence  on 
November  28,  1912. 

Albanian  forces  played  a  minor  role  in  the  First  Balkan  War  of 
1912-13,  in  which  Bulgaria,  Serbia,  and  Greece  attempted  to 
eliminate  the  last  vestiges  of  Ottoman  control  over  the  Balkans. 
At  the  end  of  1912,  however,  the  Ottoman  Turks  held  only  the 
Shkoder  garrison,  which  they  did  not  surrender  until  April  1913. 
After  the  Second  Balkan  War,  when  the  Great  Powers  prevailed 
upon  the  Montenegrins  who  had  laid  siege  to  Shkoder  to  withdraw, 
independent  Albania  was  recognized.  However,  less  than  50  per- 
cent of  the  ethnic  Albanians  living  in  the  Balkans  were  included 
within  the  boundaries  of  the  new  state.  Large  numbers  of  Albani- 
ans were  left  in  Montenegro,  Macedonia,  and  especially  Kosovo 
(see  Glossary),  sowing  the  seeds  for  potential  ethnic  conflict  in  the 
future  (see  Evolution  of  National  Security  Policy,  this  ch.). 

World  War  I  began  before  Albania  could  establish  a  viable 
government,  much  less  form,  train,  and  equip  a  military  estab- 
lishment. It  was  essentially  a  noncombatant  nation  that  served  as 
a  battleground  for  the  belligerents.  However,  during  the  war,  it 
was  occupied  alternately  by  countries  of  each  alliance.  In  1916  it 
was  the  scene  of  fighting  between  Austro-Hungarian  forces  and 
Italian,  French,  and  Greek  forces.  In  1918  the  Austro-Hungarians 


206 


National  Security 


were  finally  driven  out  of  Albania  by  the  Italians  and  the  French. 
Albania  emerged  from  the  war  with  its  territorial  integrity  intact, 
although  Serbia,  Montenegro,  Italy,  and  Greece  had  sought  to  par- 
tition it.  Italy,  in  particular,  had  entered  the  war  on  the  side  of 
the  Triple  Entente  with  the  aim  of  acquiring  parts  of  northern  Al- 
bania (see  World  War  I  and  Its  Effects  on  Albania,  ch.  1). 

Ahmed  Zogu  created  the  first  armed  national  forces  of  any  con- 
sequence. He  served  as  minister  of  internal  affairs  and  minister 
of  war  until  1922  and  prime  minister  thereafter,  except  for  a  brief 
period  of  exile  in  1924.  Before  1925  these  forces  consisted  of  about 
5,000  men,  who  were  selected  from  Zogu's  home  district  to  ensure 
their  loyalty  to  him.  In  1925  Albania  began  drafting  men  accord- 
ing to  a  policy  of  universal  conscription  that  was  carried  out  with 
Italian  assistance  and  allowed  a  considerable  degree  of  Italian  con- 
trol. The  initial  drafts  yielded  about  5,000  to  6,000  troops  per  year 
from  the  approximately  10,000  men  who  annually  reached  the  eligi- 
ble age.  The  Italians  equipped  and  provided  most  of  the  training 
and  tactical  guidance  to  Albanian  forces  and  therefore  exercised 
virtual  command  over  them. 

Under  pressure  from  a  more  proximate  Yugoslav  threat  to  its  ter- 
ritorial integrity,  Albania  placed  its  security  in  Italian  hands  in 
November  1927  when  it  signed  the  Second  Treaty  of  Tirane.  The 
original  treaty,  signed  one  year  earlier,  pledged  the  parties  to  mutual 
respect  for  the  territorial  status  quo  between  them.  The  successor 
document  established  a  twenty-year  alliance  and  a  program  of  mili- 
tary cooperation  between  them.  Thus,  Albania  became  a  virtual  pro- 
tectorate of  Italy,  with  the  latter  receiving  oil  rights,  permission  to 
build  an  industrial  and  military  infrastructure,  and  a  high-profile 
role  in  Albania's  military  leadership  and  domestic  political  affairs. 

At  about  the  same  time,  the  Gendarmerie  was  formed  with  British 
assistance.  Although  its  director  was  Albanian,  a  British  general 
served  as  its  inspector  general  and  other  British  officers  filled  its 
staff.  It  became  an  effective  internal  security  and  police  organiza- 
tion. The  Gendarmerie  had  a  commandant  in  each  of  Albania's 
ten  prefectures,  a  headquarters  in  each  subprefecture  (up  to  eight 
in  one  prefecture),  and  an  office  in  each  of  nearly  150  communi- 
ties. For  many  years,  it  had  the  most  complete  telephone  system 
in  the  country.  The  Italians  objected  strenuously,  but  King  Zog, 
as  Zogu  became  in  1928,  relied  on  the  Gendarmerie  as  a  personal 
safeguard  against  the  pervasive  Italian  influence  within  his  regu- 
lar armed  forces.  He  kept  the  force  under  his  direct  control  and 
retained  its  British  advisers  until  1938.  Zog  also  retained  a  sizable 
armed  group  from  his  home  region  as  an  additional  precaution. 


207 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 
World  War  II 

King  Zog's  effort  to  reduce  Italian  control  over  his  armed  forces 
was  insufficient  to  save  them  from  quick  humiliation  when  the 
Italians  attacked  on  April  7,  1939.  Although  annual  conscription 
had  generated  a  trained  reserve  of  at  least  50,000,  the  Albanian 
government  lacked  the  time  to  mobilize  it  in  defense  of  the  coun- 
try. The  weak  Albanian  resistance,  consisting  of  a  force  of  14,000 
against  the  Italian  force  of  40,000,  was  overcome  within  one  week, 
and  Italy  occupied  and  annexed  the  country.  Later  in  1939,  the 
Italians  subsumed  some  Albanian  forces  into  their  units.  They 
gained  little,  however,  from  Albanian  soldiers,  who  were  unwill- 
ing to  fight  for  the  occupying  power,  even  against  their  traditional 
Greek  enemies.  They  deserted  in  large  numbers. 

Benito  Mussolini,  the  Italian  fascist  premier,  and  his  Axis  part- 
ners viewed  Albania  as  a  strategic  path  through  the  Balkans  from 
which  to  challenge  British  forces  in  Egypt  and  throughout  North 
Africa.  Albania  served  as  the  bridgehead  for  Mussolini's  invasion 
of  Greece  in  October  1940,  and  Italy  committed  eight  of  its  ten 
divisions  occupying  the  country. 

The  Albanian  Communist  Party  and  its  armed  resistance  forces 
were  organized  by  the  Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  in  1941 
and  subsequently  supported  and  dominated  by  it.  Resistance  to 
the  Italian  occupation  gathered  strength  slowly  around  the  party- 
controlled  National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM,  predecessor  of 
the  NLF)  and  the  liberal  National  Front.  Beginning  in  September 
1942,  small  armed  units  of  the  NLF  initiated  a  guerrilla  war  against 
superior  Italian  forces,  using  the  mountainous  terrain  to  their  ad- 
vantage. The  National  Front,  by  contrast,  avoided  combat,  hav- 
ing concluded  that  the  Great  Powers,  not  armed  struggle,  would 
decide  Albania's  fate  after  the  war. 

After  March  1943,  the  NLM  formed  its  first  and  second  regu- 
lar battalions,  which  subsequendy  became  brigades,  to  operate  along 
with  existing  smaller  and  irregular  units.  Resistance  to  the  occu- 
pation grew  rapidly  as  signs  of  Italian  weakness  became  apparent. 
At  the  end  of  1942,  guerrilla  forces  numbered  no  more  than  8,000 
to  10,000.  By  the  summer  of  1943,  when  the  Italian  effort  collapsed, 
almost  all  of  the  mountainous  interior  was  controlled  by  resistance 
units. 

The  NLM  formally  established  the  National  Liberation  Army 
(NLA)  in  July  1943,  with  Spiro  Moisiu  as  its  military  chief  and 
Hoxha  as  its  political  officer.  It  had  20,000  regular  soldiers  and 
guerrillas  in  the  field  by  that  time.  However,  the  NLA's  military 
activities  in  1943  were  directed  as  much  against  the  party's  domestic 


208 


National  Security 


political  opponents,  including  prewar  liberal,  nationalist,  and 
monarchist  parties,  as  against  the  occupation  forces. 

Mussolini  was  overthrown  in  July  1 943 ,  and  Italy  formally  with- 
drew from  Albania  in  September.  Seven  German  divisions  took 
over  the  occupation  from  their  Italian  allies,  however.  Four  of  the 
divisions,  totalling  over  40,000  troops,  began  a  winter  offensive 
in  November  1943  against  the  NLA  in  southern  Albania,  where 
most  of  the  armed  resistance  to  the  Wehrmacht  and  support  for 
the  communist  party  was  concentrated.  They  inflicted  devastat- 
ing losses  on  NLA  forces  in  southern  Albania  in  January  1944. 
The  resistance,  however,  regrouped  and  grew  as  final  defeat  for 
the  Axis  partners  appeared  certain.  By  the  end  of  1944,  the  NLA 
probably  totaled  about  70,000  soldiers  organized  into  several  di- 
visions. It  fought  in  major  battles  for  Tirane  and  Shkoder  and  pur- 
sued German  forces  into  Kosovo  at  the  end  of  the  war.  By  its  own 
account,  the  NLA  killed,  wounded,  or  captured  80,000  Italian  and 
German  soldiers  while  suffering  about  28,000  casualties. 

The  communist-controlled  NLF  and  NLA  had  solidified  their 
hold  over  the  country  by  the  end  of  October  1944.  Some  units, 
including  one  whose  political  officer,  Ramiz  Alia,  would  eventu- 
ally succeed  Enver  Hoxha  as  leader  of  Albania,  went  on  to  fight 
the  Germans  in  Albanian-populated  regions  of  Yugoslavia,  includ- 
ing Kosovo.  Hoxha  had  risen  rapidly  from  his  post  as  political  officer 
of  the  NLA  to  leadership  of  the  communist  party,  and  he  headed 
the  communist  government  that  controlled  the  country  at  the  end 
of  World  War  II.  Albania  became  the  only  East  European  state 
in  which  the  communists  gained  power  without  the  support  of  the 
Soviet  Union's  Red  Army.  They  relied  instead  on  advice  and  sub- 
stantial assistance  from  Yugoslav  communists  and  Allied  forces  in 
occupied  Italy. 

Postwar  Development 

Initially,  Albania's  postwar  military  forces  were  equipped  and 
trained  according  to  Yugoslavia's  model.  Between  1945  and  1948, 
Yugoslavia's  control  over  the  Albanian  armed  forces  was  tighter 
than  Italy's  control  had  been.  Not  only  did  the  Yugoslavs  have 
military  advisers  and  instructors  in  regular  units,  but  Yugoslav  po- 
litical officers  also  established  party  control  over  the  Albanian  mili- 
tary to  ensure  its  reliability  and  loyalty. 

Albania  was  involved  in  several  skirmishes  early  in  the  Cold  War. 
In  1946  Albanian  coastal  artillery  batteries  fired  on  British  and 
Greek  ships  in  the  Corfu  Channel.  Later  that  year,  two  British  de- 
stroyers were  damaged  by  Albanian  mines  in  the  channel.  Together 
with  Bulgaria  and  Yugoslavia,  Albania  aided  communist  forces  in 


209 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  civil  war  in  Greece  between  1946  and  1948  and  allowed  them 
to  establish  operational  bases  on  its  territory. 

Yugoslavia  used  its  close  alliance  with  Albania  to  establish  a 
strong  pro-Yugoslav  faction  within  the  Albanian  Communist  Party. 
Led  by  Koci  Xoxe,  the  group  served  Yugoslav  interests  on  the  is- 
sue of  ethnic  Albanians  in  Yugoslavia.  It  also  cultivated  pro- 
Yugoslav  elements  within  the  military  and  security  forces  to  en- 
hance its  influence.  It  sought  a  close  alliance,  a  virtual  union,  of 
communist  states  in  the  Balkans,  including  Albania,  under  its 
leadership.  However,  when  Yugoslavia  embarked  on  its  separate 
road  to  socialism  in  1948  and  was  subsequently  expelled  from  the 
Communist  Information  Bureau  (Cominform — see  Glossary),  Al- 
bania used  the  opportunity  to  escape  the  overwhelming  Yugoslav 
influence.  The  nation  completely  severed  its  ties  with  Yugoslavia 
and  aligned  itself  directly  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  shift  to  Soviet  patronage  did  not  substantially  change  Al- 
bania's military  organization  or  equipment  because  Yugoslav  forces 
had  followed  the  Soviet  pattern  until  1948.  Albania  joined  the 
Soviet-led  Warsaw  Treaty  Organization  (see  Glossary),  popularly 
known  as  the  Warsaw  Pact,  on  May  14,  1955,  but  did  not  partici- 
pate in  joint  Warsaw  Pact  military  exercises  because  of  its  distance 
from  other  members  of  the  alliance.  Soviet  aid  to  Albania  includ- 
ed advisory  personnel,  a  considerable  supply  of  conventional 
weapons,  surplus  naval  vessels  from  World  War  II,  and  aircraft. 
Albania  provided  the  Soviet  Union  with  a  strategically  located  base 
for  a  submarine  flotilla  at  Sazan  Island,  near  Vlore,  which  gave 
it  access  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea  (see  fig.  1).  Albania  also  served 
as  a  pressure  point  for  Stalin's  campaign  against  Yugoslavia's  in- 
dependent stance  within  the  communist  camp.  Albania  preferred 
the  Soviet  Union  to  Yugoslavia  as  an  ally  because  its  distance  and 
lack  of  a  common  border  appeared  to  limit  the  extent  to  which  it 
could  interfere  in  Albania's  internal  affairs. 

Albania's  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  were  strained  in  1956 
when  Nikita  Khrushchev  improved  Soviet  relations  with  Yugosla- 
via. Hoxha  feared  that,  as  part  of  the  rapprochement  with  Yugo- 
slavia, Khrushchev  would  allow  Tito  to  reestablish  Yugoslavia's 
earlier  influence  in  Albania.  Albanian-Soviet  ties  deteriorated  rapid- 
ly in  1961,  when  Albania  joined  China  in  opposing  the  Soviet  de- 
Stalinization  campaign  in  the  communist  world  (see  Albania  and 
the  Soviet  Union,  ch.  1).  De-Stalinization  was  a  threat  to  the  po- 
litical survival  of  an  unreconstructed  Stalinist  like  Hoxha.  In 
response,  the  Soviet  Union  cancelled  its  military  aid  program  to 
Albania,  withdrew  its  military  advisers,  and  forced  Albanian  officers 
studying  in  Soviet  military  schools  to  return  home  in  April  1961. 


210 


National  Security 


Albania  in  turn  revoked  Soviet  access  to  Sazan  Island,  and  Soviet 
submarines  returned  home  in  June  1961 .  Albania  broke  diplomatic 
relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  on  December  19,  1961;  it  became 
an  inactive  member  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  but  did  not  formally  with- 
draw from  the  alliance  until  1968. 

As  tensions  grew  between  Albania  and  the  Soviet  Union,  Alba- 
nia sought  Chinese  patronage.  In  the  1960s,  China  succeeded  the 
Soviet  Union  as  Albania's  sole  patron.  Albania  provided  China 
with  little  practical  support,  but  its  value  as  an  international  polit- 
ical ally  was  sufficient  for  the  Chinese  to  continue  military  as- 
sistance. China  provided  aid  in  quantities  required  to  maintain  the 
armed  forces  at  about  the  same  levels  of  personnel  and  equipment 
that  they  had  achieved  when  they  were  supported  by  the  Soviet 
Union.  The  shift  to  Chinese  training  and  equipment,  however, 
probably  caused  some  deterioration  in  the  tactical  and  technical 
proficiency  of  Albanian  military  personnel. 

Evolution  of  National  Security  Policy 

Like  any  country,  Albania's  national  security  is  largely  deter- 
mined by  its  geography  and  neighbors.  It  shares  a  2 82 -kilometer 
border  with  Greece  to  the  south  and  southeast.  It  has  a  287-kilo- 
meter border  with  the  Yugoslav  republics  of  Serbia  and  Montenegro 
to  the  north  and  a  151-kilometer  border  with  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia  to  the  east.  Albania's  other  closest  neigh- 
bor and  one-time  invader,  Italy,  is  located  less  than  100  kilometers 
across  the  Adriatic  Sea  to  the  west.  Albania  has  had  longstanding 
and  potentially  dangerous  territorial  and  ethnic  disputes  with  Greece 
and  Yugoslavia.  It  has  traditionally  feared  an  accommodation  be- 
tween them  in  which  they  would  agree  to  divide  Albania.  Greece 
has  historical  ties  with  a  region  of  southern  Albania  known  as  North- 
ern Epirus  among  the  Greeks  and  inhabited  by  ethnic  Greeks,  with 
estimates  of  their  number  ranging  from  less  than  60,000  to  400,000. 
Moreover,  there  is  serious  potential  for  conflict  with  Yugoslavia,  or 
specifically  the  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Serbia,  over  Kosovo.  Never- 
theless, for  many  years,  Albania  perceived  a  seaborne  attack  by 
a  superpower  from  the  Adriatic  Sea  as  a  greater  threat  than  a  large- 
scale  ground  assault  across  the  rugged  terrain  of  eastern  Albania. 
Any  attack  on  Albania  would  have  proved  difficult  because  more 
than  three-quarters  of  its  territory  is  hilly  or  mountainous.  The 
country's  small  size,  however,  provides  littie  strategic  depth  for 
conventional  defensive  operations. 

In  the  early  years  of  communist  rule,  Albania's  national  security 
policy  emphasized  the  internal  security  of  the  new  communist  re- 
gime and  only,  secondarily,  external  threats.  Evaluated  against  this 


211 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

priority,  Albania's  national  security  policy  was  largely  successful 
until  1990.  Because  its  military  forces,  however,  were  incapable 
of  deterring  or  repulsing  external  threats,  Albania  sought  to  ob- 
tain political  or  military  guarantees  from  its  allies  or  the  interna- 
tional community. 

Initially,  Albania's  national  security  policy  focused  on  extend- 
ing the  authority  of  the  Tosk-dominated  communist  party  from 
Tirane  and  southern  Albania  into  Geg-inhabited  northern  regions 
where  neither  the  party  nor  the  NLA  enjoyed  strong  support  from 
the  population  (see  Ethnicity,  ch.  2).  In  some  places,  the  party  and 
NLA  faced  armed  opposition.  The  government  emphasized  polit- 
ical indoctrination  within  the  military  in  an  attempt  to  make  the 
armed  forces  a  pillar  of  support  for  the  communist  system  and  a 
unifying  force  for  the  people  of  Albania.  In  general,  however,  there 
were  few  serious  internal  or  external  threats  to  communist  con- 
trol. In  the  early  years  of  communist  rule,  the  communist  party 
relied  on  its  close  alliance  with  Yugoslavia  for  its  external  security. 
This  alliance  was  an  unnatural  one,  however,  given  the  history  of 
mutual  suspicion  and  tension  between  the  two  neighbors  and  Yu- 
goslavia's effort  to  include  Albania  in  an  alliance  of  Balkan  states 
under  its  control.  In  1948  Yugoslavia's  expulsion  from  the  Soviet- 
led  communist  world  ended  the  alliance. 

The  Soviet  Union  assumed  the  role  of  Albania's  principal  bene- 
factor from  late  1948.  Albania  was  a  founding  member  of  the  War- 
saw Pact  in  1955,  and  its  security  was  guaranteed  against  Yugoslav 
encroachment  by  its  participation  in  the  Soviet-led  collective  security 
system  until  1961 .  However,  the  Soviet  Union  suspended  its  mili- 
tary cooperation  and  security  guarantees  when  Albania  supported 
China  in  the  Sino-Soviet  split  (see  Albania  and  China,  ch.  1). 

Albania's  military  weakness  and  general  ideological  compatibility 
with  China  led  it  to  accept  Chinese  sponsorship  and  military  as- 
sistance. It  did  not,  however,  formally  withdraw  from  the  War- 
saw Pact  until  September  13,  1968,  after  the  Soviet-led  Warsaw 
Pact  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia.  After  the  invasion,  Albania  drew 
closer  to  China,  seeking  protection  against  a  possible  attempt  by 
the  Soviet  Union  to  retrieve  Albania  into  the  East  European  fold. 
China  subsequently  increased  its  military  assistance  to  Albania. 
Despite  Chinese  guarantees  of  support,  Albania  apparentiy  doubted 
the  efficacy  of  a  deterrent  provided  by  a  distant  and  relatively  weak 
China  against  a  proximate  Soviet  threat.  Some  knowledgeable 
Western  observers  believed  that,  at  Chinese  insistence,  Albania 
had  signed  a  mutual  assistance  agreement  with  Yugoslavia  and 
Romania  to  be  implemented  in  the  event  of  a  Soviet  attack  on  any 
one  of  them. 


212 


National  Security 


Following  China's  lead,  Albania  accused  both  the  United  States 
and  the  Soviet  Union  of  tacitly  collaborating  to  divide  the  world 
into  spheres  of  influence,  becoming  a  vociferous  international  op- 
ponent of  the  use  of  military  force  abroad  and  the  establishment 
of  foreign  military  bases,  particularly  by  the  United  States  or  the 
Soviet  Union.  In  particular,  Albania  persistently  called  for  a  reduc- 
tion of  United  States  and  Soviet  naval  forces  in  the  Mediterranean 
Sea. 

During  the  1970s,  Albania  viewed  improved  relations  between 
the  United  States  and  China  as  detrimental  to  its  interests.  This 
perception  increased  after  the  death  of  Mao  Zedong  in  1976.  In 
1978  China  ceased  its  military  and  economic  assistance  to  Alba- 
nia as  the  Asian  superpower  adopted  a  less  radical  stance  on  the 
international  scene  and  turned  more  attention  to  its  domestic  affairs. 
According  to  some  analysts,  however,  China  continued  to  supply 
Albania  with  spare  parts  for  its  Chinese-made  weapons  and  equip- 
ment during  the  1980s. 

In  the  decade  between  Mao's  death  and  Hoxha's  death  in  1985, 
Albania  practiced  self-reliance  and  international  isolation.  After 
succeeding  Hoxha,  President  Ramiz  Alia  moved  in  a  new  direc- 
tion, seeking  improved  relations  with  Yugoslavia,  Greece,  and 
Turkey  and  even  participating  in  the  Balkan  Foreign  Ministers 
Conference  in  1988.  He  attempted  to  moderate  the  impact  of  the 
Kosovo  issue  on  relations  with  Yugoslavia.  Greece  downplayed  its 
historical  claims  to  the  disputed  territory  of  Northern  Epirus  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  when  the  two  countries  improved  their  bilateral  re- 
lations. Alia  also  encouraged  Greece  and  Turkey  to  withdraw  from 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  and  Bulgaria  and 
Romania  to  withdraw  from  the  Warsaw  Pact.  In  addition,  Alia 
improved  relations  with  Italy  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germa- 
ny (West  Germany),  which  may  have  resulted  in  some  military 
sales  to  Albania,  including  missile  and  military  communications 
systems. 

In  1986  the  first  deputy  minister  of  people's  defense  and  chief 
of  the  general  staff  summarized  Albania's  approach  to  national  secu- 
rity when  he  stated  that  Albania's  security  depended  on  carefully 
studying  the  international  situation  and  taking  corresponding  ac- 
tion. Better  ties  with  its  neighbors  promised  to  give  Albania  time 
to  generate  support  in  the  international  arena  and  bring  interna- 
tional opprobrium  to  bear  on  any  potential  aggressor  while  its  forces 
mounted  a  conventional  defense  and,  then,  guerrilla  warfare  against 
enemy  occupation  forces. 

In  early  1992,  the  outlook  for  Albanian  national  security  was 
mixed.  There  were  important  positive  developments  but  also  some 


213 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


negative  trends.  The  Treaty  on  Conventional  Armed  Forces  in 
Europe — usually  referred  to  as  the  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe, 
or  CFE,  Treaty — was  signed  in  1990  and  promised  reductions  in 
the  ground  and  air  forces  of  nearby  NATO  members  Greece  and 
Italy  and  former  Warsaw  Pact  member  Bulgaria.  It  therefore  placed 
predictable  limits  on  the  future  size  of  the  military  threat  to  Alba- 
nia from  most  of  its  neighbors.  But  the  CFE  Treaty  did  not  affect 
nonaligned  states  such  as  Yugoslavia,  and  Albania  remained  militar- 
ily, economically,  and  technologically  weak. 

In  June  1990,  seeking  to  develop  closer  ties  to  the  rest  of  Eu- 
rope, Albania  began  to  participate  in  the  Conference  on  Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE — see  Glossary)  as  an  observer 
state.  It  received  full  membership  one  year  later.  Until  joining, 
Albania  had  been  the  only  state  in  Europe  not  a  member  of  CSCE. 
Membership  afforded  Albania  a  degree  of  protection  against  ex- 
ternal aggression  that  it  probably  had  not  enjoyed  previously.  It 
also  committed  Albania  to  respect  existing  international  bound- 
aries in  Europe  and  basic  human  rights  and  political  freedoms  at 
home. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Albania  sought  a  broader  range  of  diplomatic 
relations,  reestablishing  official  ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1990 
and  the  United  States  in  1991 .  It  also  sought  to  join  the  North  At- 
lantic Cooperation  Council,  a  NATO-associated  organization  in 
which  other  former  Warsaw  Pact  countries  were  already  par- 
ticipating. 

On  the  negative  side  of  Albania's  national  security  balance  sheet, 
the  improved  European  security  environment  undermined  the  com- 
munist regime's  ability  to  mobilize  the  population  by  propagan- 
dizing external  threats.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  military  press  cited 
problems  in  convincing  Albania's  youth  of  the  importance  of  mili- 
tary service  and  training,  given  the  fact  that  the  Soviet  Union  was 
withdrawing  its  forces  from  Eastern  Europe,  that  the  CFE  Treaty 
promised  major  reductions  in  conventional  forces,  and  that  most 
conceivable  threats  seemed  to  be  receding.  The  accounts  cited  in- 
stances of  "individual  and  group  excesses,"  unexcused  absences, 
and  the  failure  to  perform  assigned  duties.  These  problems  were 
ascribed  to  political  liberalization  and  democratization  in  the  Peo- 
ple's Army,  factors  that  supposedly  weakened  military  order  and 
discipline,  led  to  breaches  of  regulations,  and  interfered  with  mili- 
tary training  and  readiness. 

Albania's  most  sensitive  security  problem  centered  on  ethnic  Al- 
banians living  outside  the  country's  borders,  including  the  nearly 
2  million  living  in  Kosovo,  a  province  of  Yugoslavia's  Serbian 
Republic.  The  area  recognized  as  Albania  by  the  Great  Powers 


214 


National  Security 


in  1913  was  such  that  more  ethnic  Albanians  were  left  outside  the 
new  state  than  included  within  it.  Tension  in  Kosovo  between  ethnic 
Albanians,  who  made  up  90  percent  of  its  approximately  2  million 
residents,  and  the  dwindling  number  of  Serbs  living  there  was  a 
constant  source  of  potential  conflict  between  Albania  and  Serbia. 

Yugoslavia's  Serbian  Republic  ruled  Kosovo  harshly  until  the 
1970s  when  it  became  an  autonomous  province,  theoretically  with 
almost  the  same  rights  as  the  Serbian  Republic  itself.  In  1981, 
however,  one-quarter  of  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army  (YPA)  was 
deployed  in  Kosovo  in  response  to  unrest,  which  began  with  riots 
in  Pristina.  Yugoslavia  asserted  more  direct  control  over  Kosovo 
in  the  late  1980s  in  response  to  alleged  Albanian  separatism,  which 
aimed  to  push  Serbians  out  of  an  area  they  considered  to  be  their 
ancestral  home.  In  1989,  relying  on  scarcely  veiled  threats  and  ac- 
tual demonstrations  of  force,  Serbia  forced  Kosovo  to  accept  legis- 
lation that  substantially  reduced  its  autonomy  and  then  suspended 
Kosovo's  parliament  and  government  in  1990.  Sporadic  skirmishes 
erupted  between  armed  Albanian  and  Serbian  civilians,  who  were 
backed  by  the  Serb-dominated  YPA.  Meanwhile,  the  Serbs  accused 
Albania  of  interference  in  Kosovo  and  of  inciting  its  Albanian  popu- 
lation against  Yugoslav  rule. 

For  their  part,  Kosovars  claimed  that  they  were  the  victims  of 
Serbian  nationalism,  repression,  and  discrimination.  In  1991  they 
voted  in  a  referendum  to  become  an  independent  republic  of  Yu- 
goslavia, and  Albania  immediately  recognized  Kosovo  as  such. 
Although  President  Alia  criticized  Yugoslav  policy  in  Kosovo,  he 
carefully  avoided  making  claims  on  its  territory.  Nevertheless,  Serbs 
believed  the  vote  for  republic  status  was  a  precursor  to  demands 
for  complete  independence  from  Yugoslavia  and  eventual  unifica- 
tion with  Albania.  As  Yugoslavia  collapsed  into  a  civil  war  that 
pitted  intensely  nationalist  Serbia  against  other  ethnic  groups  of 
the  formerly  multinational  state,  Albania  remained  circumspect 
in  its  pronouncements  on  and  relations  with  Kosovo  in  order  to 
avoid  a  conflict.  However,  a  series  of  border  incidents,  involving 
Serb  forces  killing  ten  Albanians  along  the  Albanian-Yugoslav 
border,  occurred  in  late  1991  and  early  1992.  Albanians  and  Eu- 
ropeans were  seriously  concerned  that  Serb  forces  would  direct  mili- 
tary operations  against  ethnic  Albanians  in  Kosovo  and  spark  an 
international  conflict  with  Albania.  Albania's  armed  forces  were 
poorly  prepared  to  fight  the  larger,  better  equipped,  and  combat- 
experienced  Serb  forces. 

Defense  Organization 

As  chief  of  both  party  and  state,  Enver  Hoxha  was  commander 


215 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

in  chief  and  had  direct  authority  over  the  People's  Army  until  his 
death  in  1985.  His  successor,  Ramiz  Alia,  also  had  a  strong  con- 
nection to  the  People's  Army  through  his  military  career,  having 
reached  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel  and  political  officer  in  the 
Fifth  Division  of  the  NLA  at  the  age  of  nineteen.  According  to  the 
constitution  adopted  in  1976,  the  People's  Assembly,  a  unicamer- 
al legislative  body,  had  authority  to  declare  mobilization,  a  state 
of  emergency,  or  war.  This  authority  devolved  to  the  president  when 
the  People's  Assembly  was  not  in  session,  which  was  more  often 
than  not  under  communist  rule,  or  was  unable  to  meet  because 
of  the  exigencies  of  a  surprise  attack  on  Albania.  Albania's  interim 
constitutional  law,  published  in  December  1990  and  enacted  in  April 
1991,  made  the  president  commander  in  chief  of  the  People's  Army 
and  chairman  of  the  relatively  small  Defense  Council,  composed 
of  key  party  leaders  and  government  officials  whose  ministries  would 
be  critical  to  directing  military  operations,  production,  and  com- 
munications in  wartime  (see  Reform  Politics,  ch.  4). 

The  People's  Army  encompassed  ground,  air  and  air  defense, 
and  naval  forces.  It  reported  to  the  minister  of  people's  defense, 
who  was  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  and  was,  by  law, 
selected  by  the  People's  Assembly.  The  minister  of  defense  had 
traditionally  been  a  deputy  prime  minister  and  member  of  the  Po- 
litical Bureau  (Politburo)  of  the  party.  He  exercised  day-to-day  ad- 
ministrative control  and,  through  the  chief  of  the  general  staff, 
operational  control  over  all  elements  of  the  military  establishment. 
The  chief  of  the  general  staff  was  second  in  command  of  the  defense 
establishment.  He  had  traditionally  been  a  candidate  member  of 
the  Politburo.  Each  commander  of  a  service  branch  was  also  a 
deputy  minister  of  defense  and  advised  the  minister  of  people's 
defense  on  issues  relative  to  his  service  and  coordinated  its  activi- 
ties within  the  ministry.  Each  represented  his  service  in  national 
defense  planning. 

The  major  administrative  divisions  of  the  People's  Army  served 
all  three  services.  These  divisions  included  the  political,  person- 
nel, intelligence,  and  counterintelligence  directorates;  the  military 
prosecutor's  office;  and  the  rear  and  medical  services.  The  intelli- 
gence directorate  collected  and  reported  information  on  foreign  ar- 
mies, especially  those  of  neighboring  Yugoslavia  and  Greece.  The 
military  prosecutor's  office  was  responsible  for  military  justice.  It 
organized  military  courts  composed  of  a  chairman,  vice  chairman, 
and  several  assistant  judges.  The  courts  heard  a  variety  of  cases 
covered  by  the  military  section  of  the  penal  code.  Military  crimes 
included  breaches  of  military  discipline,  regulations,  and  orders 
as  well  as  political  crimes  against  the  state  and  the  socialist  order. 


216 


National  Security 


Military  personnel,  reserves,  security  forces,  and  local  police  were 
subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  military  courts.  The  medical  service 
had  departments  within  each  of  the  military  branches  providing 
hospital  and  pharmaceutical  services.  At  the  national  level,  it 
cooperated  closely  with  the  Ministry  of  Health,  using  military  per- 
sonnel, facilities,  and  equipment  to  improve  sanitary  and  medical 
conditions  throughout  the  country  and  to  provide  emergency  med- 
ical assistance  during  natural  disasters. 

Political  Control 

The  Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL)  had  an  active  and  dominant 
organization  within  the  armed  forces  until  it  lost  its  monopoly  on 
political  power  in  1991.  The  postcommunist  political  complexion 
of  the  military  was  only  beginning  to  evolve  in  early  1992.  The 
great  majority  of  officers  in  the  armed  services  were  still  party  mem- 
bers in  early  1992  (the  party  was  renamed  in  June  1991  as  the  So- 
cialist Party  of  Albania). 

The  communist-dominated  coalition  government,  which  emerged 
from  the  spring  1991  elections,  promised  a  sweeping  military  re- 
form that  included  the  depoliticization  of  the  armed  forces.  The 
Political  Directorate  of  the  People's  Army,  however,  continued  to 
exist  as  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense.  The  Political  Directorate 
controlled  political  officers  within  all  services  and  units  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  communist  leadership  considered  the  directorate  es- 
sential to  ensure  that  the  armed  forces  conformed  with  ideology 
as  interpreted  by  the  party. 

The  reliability  of  senior  military  leaders  was  assured  by  their 
membership  in  the  party.  All  students  over  eighteen  years  of  age 
in  military  schools  were  also  party  members.  Younger  students  were 
members  of  the  Union  of  Albanian  Working  Youth  and  were  or- 
ganized into  the  party's  youth  committee  in  the  army.  Political 
officers  indoctrinated  conscripts  with  communist  ideology  and  the 
party  line.  Reinforcing  the  actions  of  officers  and  military  courts, 
they  helped  ensure  discipline  in  military  units.  They  had  authori- 
ty to  take  action  against  soldiers  whose  attitudes  or  conduct  was 
considered  contrary  to  the  efficiency  or  good  order  of  the  armed 
forces.  Probably  only  a  very  few  of  the  conscripts  were  party  mem- 
bers, but  nearly  all  were  members  of  the  youth  organization. 

In  1966  Hoxha  abolished  rank  designations  and  uniforms,  con- 
demning them  as  unhealthy  bourgeois  class  distinctions,  in  keep- 
ing with  a  similar  Chinese  move.  This  measure  was  intended  to 
make  the  military  more  egalitarian  by  bringing  officers  closer  to 
the  soldiers  under  their  command.  It  also  reinforced  party  control 
over  the  military  by  reducing  the  prestige  and  independence  of  its 


217 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


leadership  as  well  as  its  potential  to  become  a  political  power  center 
rivaling  the  party.  Military  professionalism  became  a  secondary 
consideration  to  political  reliability  in  determining  promotions. 

Since  World  War  II,  the  abrupt  shifts  in  Albanian  foreign  poli- 
cy had  resulted  in  purges  of  the  officer  corps.  Those  officers  trained 
in  or  closely  linked  with  Yugoslavia,  the  Soviet  Union,  or  China 
were  purged  from  the  ranks  and  even  executed  as  traitors  when 
alliances  with  these  countries  came  to  an  end. 

Fearing  a  decline  in  his  authority  and  party  control  over  the  Peo- 
ple's  Army,  Hoxha  also  conducted  a  major  purge  of  its  senior 
officers  during  1974.  He  dismissed  and  later  executed  his  longtime 
ally  and  minister  of  defense,  Beqir  Balluku,  as  well  as  the  chief 
of  staff  and  chief  of  the  political  directorate.  He  replaced  Balluku 
with  his  prime  minister,  Mehmet  Shehu,  another  close  associate 
of  many  years  who  had  established  the  military  and  security  forces 
in  the  late  1940s.  Shehu  was  a  founder  of  the  guerrilla  movement 
during  World  War  II  who  attained  the  rank  of  lieutenant  general. 
He  was  its  most  capable  military  leader,  but  he  apparently  com- 
mitted suicide  after  he  and  party  officials  tied  closely  to  him  were 
purged  in  1981.  Prokop  Murra,  a  relatively  junior  candidate  mem- 
ber of  the  Politburo,  succeeded  Shehu  as  minister  of  defense  and 
became  a  full  member  of  the  Politburo  in  1986.  Kico  Mustaqi  be- 
came chief  of  the  general  staff  and  first  deputy  minister  of  defense, 
as  well  as  a  candidate  member  of  the  Politburo,  in  1986. 

Military  influence  in  politics  was  restored  to  its  earlier  level  when 
Mustaqi  became  minister  of  defense  and  a  full  member  of  the  Polit- 
buro in  1990.  This  closer  integration  of  the  military  into  the  polit- 
ical leadership  may  have  been  an  effort  to  ensure  the  military's 
loyalty  at  a  time  of  social  unrest  at  home  and  communist  disin- 
tegration in  Eastern  Europe.  In  early  1991,  however,  President 
Alia  replaced  Mustaqi  with  Muhamet  Karakaci,  a  young  former 
officer  and  deputy  chief  of  the  general  staff.  Alia  reportedly  feared 
that  Mustaqi  was  planning  a  military  coup  d'etat. 

In  November  1991,  the  communist-dominated  coalition  govern- 
ment reintroduced  military  ranks  and  Western-style  uniforms  in 
place  of  plain  Chinese  fatigues.  It  pledged  to  emphasize  military 
professionalism,  training,  and  discipline  and  to  eliminate  political 
indoctrination  from  the  military.  The  Albanian  Democratic  Party 
called  for  reforms  in  the  armed  forces  to  include  reductions  in  mili- 
tary spending,  military  units,  and  conscription  and  the  reorgani- 
zation of  unit  structures.  It  proposed  and  initiated  an  effort  to 
establish  contacts  and  cooperation  with  Western  military  establish- 
ments, particularly  Turkey's,  and  to  send  Albanian  officers  to  study 
and  train  in  foreign  military  academies.  The  chief  of  staff  of  the 


218 


Bus  driver  talking 
to  soldier  at  the 
terminus 
near  the  port 
city  of  Dunes 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


People's  Army  attended  the  East- West  Seminar  on  Military  Doc- 
trines in  Vienna  for  the  first  time  in  1991. 

People's  Army 

In  early  1992,  the  ground,  air  and  air  defense,  and  naval  forces 
of  the  People's  Army  numbered  about  48,000,  approximately  half 
of  whom  were  conscripts.  The  ground  forces  were  the  predominant 
service,  and  ground  forces  commanders  exercised  broad  authority 
over  the  air  and  air  defense  forces  in  providing  air  support  to  ground 
forces  units.  They  also  had  responsibility  for  the  defense  of  coastal 
regions  and  exercised  considerable  operational  control  over  naval 
units  to  accomplish  this  mission.  There  was  less  distinction  between 
Albania's  military  services  than  was  normally  the  case  in  larger 
Western  military  establishments.  The  air  and  air  defense  forces 
and  the  naval  forces  were  usually  treated  separately  because  of  their 
distinctive  missions,  equipment,  and  training,  but  their  personnel 
were  frequently  referred  to  as  air  or  naval  soldiers.  Their  organi- 
zation and  logistics  differed  only  insofar  as  their  missions  and  equip- 
ment required.  The  tactical  missions  and  capabilities  of  each  service 
were  specialized  in  relation  to  their  weapons,  and  organizational 
patterns  appeared  similar  to  most  other  armed  forces  throughout 
the  world.  During  the  formative  years  immediately  after  World 
War  II,  force  structures  for  each  service  were  adopted  directly  from 


219 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

the  Soviet  model,  although  a  partial  realignment  according  to  the 
Chinese  pattern  occurred  after  1961. 

Ground  Forces 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  ground  forces  numbered  about  35,000, 
or  about  three-quarters  of  all  armed  forces  personnel.  Because  the 
strength  of  the  ground  forces  was  sufficient  to  man  only  about  two 
divisions,  brigades  of  approximately  3,000  soldiers  became  the  larg- 
est army  formation.  In  1991  four  infantry  brigades  constituted  the 
bulk  of  combat  units  in  the  ground  forces.  During  the  1980s,  Al- 
bania had  reduced  the  number  of  infantry  brigades  from  eight  to 
four.  It  had  shifted  to  fully  manned  units  from  its  prior  reliance 
on  the  mobilization  of  reserve  soldiers  to  flesh  out  a  larger  num- 
ber of  units  manned  at  a  lower  level.  Each  brigade  had  three  in- 
fantry battalions  and  one  lightly  equipped  artillery  battalion. 
Armored  forces  consisted  of  one  tank  brigade.  Artillery  forces  were 
increased  from  one  to  three  regiments  during  the  1980s,  and  six 
battalions  of  coastal  artillery  were  maintained  at  strategic  points 
along  the  Adriatic  Sea  littoral. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  most  equipment  used  by  the  ground  forc- 
es was  old,  and  its  effectiveness  was  questionable.  In  addition, 
shortages  of  spare  parts  for  Soviet  and  Chinese  equipment  reduced 
combat  readiness.  The  infantry  brigades  lacked  mechanization, 
operating  only  about  130  armored  personnel  carriers.  They  included 
Soviet  BTR-40,  BTR-50,  BTR-152,  and  BRDM-1  vehicles 
produced  in  the  1950s  and  Chinese  Type-531  armored  vehicles. 
Armored  forces  were  equipped  with  200  Soviet-made  T-34  and 
T-54  tanks.  The  T-34  was  a  World  War  II  model,  and  the  more 
recent  T-54  was  introduced  during  the  late  1950s.  Soviet  and 
Chinese  artillery  in  the  ground  forces  inventory  was  towed  rather 
than  self-propelled.  It  included  Soviet  M-1937  and  D-l  howitzers 
and  Chinese  Type-66  152mm  guns,  Chinese  Type-59  130mm  guns, 
Soviet  M-1931/37  and  M-1938  guns  of  122mm,  and  Chinese 
Type-60  guns  of  122mm.  The  ground  forces  also  operated  Chinese 
Type-63  107mm  multiple  rocket  launchers  and  a  large  number  of 
Soviet  and  Chinese  mortars,  recoilless  rifles,  and  antitank  guns. 
Organic  air  defense  equipment  for  protecting  ground  forces  units 
consisted  of  several  types  of  Soviet  towed  antiaircraft  guns,  including 
the  23mm  ZU-23-2,  37mm  M-1939,  57mm  S-60,  and  85mm 
KS-12. 

The  lack  of  modern  equipment  was  a  major  deficiency  in  the 
ground  forces  in  the  early  1990s.  The  infantry  lacked  mobility  and 
antitank  guided  missiles.  Moreover,  without  mobile  surface-to-air 
missiles  or  radar-controlled  antiaircraft  guns,  army  units  would 


220 


National  Security 


be  vulnerable  to  attack  by  modern  fighter-bombers  or  ground- attack 
aircraft.  Yet  the  obsolescent  weapons  of  the  ground  forces  were 
suited  to  the  relatively  low  technical  skill  of  the  country's  soldiers 
as  well  as  its  rugged  terrain  (see  fig.  3).  The  tactical  skill  of  the 
officers  might  make  it  possible  to  deploy  this  older  equipment  suc- 
cessfully for  a  short  period  in  a  static  defensive  posture.  A  defen- 
sive operation  that  prevented  an  enemy  from  rapidly  neutralizing 
Albanian  opposition  would  enable  Albania  to  seek  international 
diplomatic  or  military  assistance  against  an  aggressor.  Alternatively, 
it  would  gain  time  and  retain  the  military  equipment  needed  to 
establish  a  long-term  guerrilla  force  capable  of  resisting  a  better 
armed  conventional  occupation  army.  The  logistical  support  re- 
quired to  resupply  and  maintain  such  a  defense,  however,  was  either 
lacking  or  nearly  impossible  to  achieve  over  much  of  the  terrain. 

Air  and  Air  Defense  Forces 

The  air  and  air  defense  forces,  founded  in  April  1952,  are  the 
most  junior  of  the  three  services.  In  1991  the  personnel  strength 
of  these  forces  was  about  11,000,  the  majority  of  whom  consisted 
of  officers  assigned  to  ground-based  air  defense  units.  The  air  force 
had  nearly  100  combat  aircraft  supplied  by  China.  The  main  air 
bases  were  located  near  Tirane,  Shijak,  Vlore,  Sazan  Island,  and 
Kucove.  The  missions  of  the  air  force  were  to  repel  the  enemy  at 
the  country's  borders  and  to  prevent  violations  of  national  airspace. 
However,  the  obsolescence  of  Albania's  combat  aircraft  and  prob- 
able deficiencies  in  readiness  made  it  unlikely  that  the  air  force  could 
fulfill  these  missions  against  the  more  modern  aircraft  of  neigh- 
boring countries.  The  air  force  was  a  source  of  prestige  for  the  re- 
gime, but  for  practical  purposes  it  served  mainly  to  provide  the 
core  for  upgrading  in  the  event  that  a  new,  technologically  advanced 
foreign  sponsor  appeared  in  the  future. 

After  1970  the  air  force  replaced  its  entire  inventory  of  Soviet 
MiG-15  and  MiG-17  aircraft  acquired  during  the  1950s  with 
Chinese-produced  airplanes.  It  had  one  squadron  of  Chinese  J-7s 
and  two  squadrons  of  J-6  fighter-interceptors,  with  ten  to  twelve 
aircraft  per  squadron.  Ground-attack  and  support  aircraft  includ- 
ed two  squadrons  of  Chinese  J-4s  and  one  squadron  of  J- 2  fighter- 
bombers.  The  most  modern  of  these  Chinese-built  aircraft,  the  J-7, 
was  designed  along  the  lines  of  the  Soviet  MiG-21 ,  which  was  first 
introduced  in  the  1960s.  The  J-6  fighter-interceptor  was  the  Chinese 
version  of  the  MiG-19  from  the  1950s.  These  aircraft  were  limited 
to  daytime  operations,  lacking  the  sophisticated  radar  and  avion- 
ics required  to  give  them  night  and  all-weather  flight  capabilities. 
Military  transport  aircraft  and  helicopters  consisted  of  one  squadron 


221 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

of  C-5  transports,  a  Chinese-manufactured  Soviet  An-2;  one  squad- 
ron of  Chinese  Li-2  transports;  and  two  squadrons  of  Chinese  Z-5 
helicopters.  The  Z-5  was  basically  a  Soviet  Mi-4. 

Air  defense  equipment  was  primarily  Soviet  in  origin.  Four  sites 
equipped  with  Soviet  SA-2  surface-to-air  missiles  constituted  a  point 
air  defense  system  for  several  strategic  locations  in  Albania.  The 
SA-2  was  received  initially  in  1964  and  became  obsolete  in  the 
1970s.  The  Chinese  apparently  did  not  upgrade  Albania's  capa- 
bility. Until  1976  China  supplied  most  of  the  spare  parts  required 
to  maintain  the  air  force's  equipment.  After  1976,  however,  the 
combat  readiness  of  the  air  force  declined  because  deliveries  of  spare 
parts  were  reduced.  The  aircraft  inventory  also  shrank  after  Chi- 
na ceased  its  arms  supply  relationship  with  Albania.  Increasingly, 
older  aircraft  that  could  not  be  repaired  left  the  inventory  and  were 
not  replaced. 

Naval  Forces 

None  of  Albania's  pre-World  War  II  naval  forces  survived  the 
occupation  of  Albania;  the  new  navy  was  established  in  August 
1945.  The  naval  forces  are  exclusively  coastal  defense  forces  and 
closely  coordinate  their  operations  with  the  ground  forces.  Their 
mission  is  to  provide  the  initial  line  of  resistance  to  a  seaborne  in- 
vasion of  Albania.  Considerably  weaker  than  their  potential  ad- 
versaries, the  naval  forces  are  intended  to  deny  an  aggressor 
uninhibited  access  to  the  waters  adjacent  to  Albania.  They  would 
be  largely  sacrificed  in  the  effort  to  defeat  at  least  some  of  the  units 
of  a  large,  well-equipped  opposing  naval  assault  force.  They  would 
try  to  prevent  submarines  from  approaching  Albanian  coasts  and 
ports,  to  lay  and  sweep  mines,  and  to  escort  convoys.  The  absence 
of  a  shore-based  coastal  defense  force  with  surface-to-surface  mis- 
siles, however,  is  a  serious  deficiency  in  the  navy's  ability  to  repel 
a  seaborne  attack  on  Albania.  Naval  forces,  together  with  police 
patrol  boats,  are  also  responsible  for  preventing  smuggling  and  con- 
trolling access  to  Albanian  ports. 

Naval  forces  are  organized  into  two  coastal  defense  brigades  com- 
posed of  minor  surface  combatants  located  at  the  Durres  and  Vlore 
naval  bases.  All  combatants  are  assigned  to  one  of  these  bases.  Other 
naval  facilities  are  located  at  Sazan  Island,  Pasha  Liman  on  the 
strait  of  Otranto  coast,  Sarande,  and  Shengjin.  The  Soviet  Union 
constructed  the  base  at  Sazan  Island,  but  it  has  not  been  used 
regularly  since  Soviet- Albanian  relations  ruptured  in  1961.  Naval 
personnel  numbered  about  2,000,  with  roughly  one-half  being  con- 
scripts. 


222 


National  Security 


The  strength  of  the  naval  forces  shrank  between  the  mid-1970s 
and  1991 .  In  particular,  old  Italian  ships  of  World  War  II  vintage 
and  most  of  Albania's  minesweepers  left  the  inventory.  Torpedo 
boats  and  coastal  patrol  craft  constituted  the  bulk  of  the  naval  forces. 
In  1991  Albania  had  twenty-nine  Chinese-built  Huchwan  hydrofoil 
torpedo  boats,  each  of  which  had  two  533mm  torpedo  tubes.  Patrol 
craft  included  six  Chinese-made  Shanghai-II  fast  inshore  gunboats 
and  two  older  Soviet  Kronshtadt-class  patrol  boats.  Minesweep- 
ing  forces  consisted  of  old  Soviet-built  T-301  and  PO-2  boats.  The 
naval  forces  also  had  two  obsolete  Soviet  Whiskey-class  diesel  sub- 
marines constructed  during  the  1950s. 

Military  Manpower 

Traditionally  most  armed  forces  conscripts  served  for  two  years. 
Conscripts  in  the  air  and  air  defense  and  naval  forces  as  well  as 
noncommissioned  officers  and  technical  specialists  in  certain  units 
served  three  years.  In  1991,  however,  the  freely  elected,  communist- 
controlled  coalition  government  reduced  the  basic  two-year  term 
of  service  to  eighteen  months.  This  shorter  term  of  service  for  con- 
scripts and  the  small  size  of  the  People's  Army  would  force  Alba- 
nia to  rely  on  large-scale  mobilization  to  mount  a  credible  defense 
of  the  country.  Given  the  small  population  and  economy  of  Alba- 
nia, full  mobilization  would  seriously  disrupt  the  civilian  produc- 
tion and  logistics  necessary  to  sustain  military  operations.  The 
military  reserve  training  needed  to  support  mobilization  plans  also 
imposed  a  burden  on  the  country's  economic  activity.  In  the  early 
1990s,  the  population  was  relatively  young,  with  fully  60  percent 
under  the  age  of  thirty.  There  were  just  under  500,000  males  be- 
tween the  ages  of  fifteen  and  fifty.  Of  this  total  number,  approxi- 
mately 75  percent,  or  nearly  375,000,  were  physically  suited  to  carry 
out  military  duties.  More  than  half  of  them  had  had  prior  military 
service  and  participated  in  reserve  military  activities  on  an  annual 
basis.  Women  were  also  trained  in  the  reserves  and  available  for 
mobilization,  although  in  unknown  numbers. 

In  the  early  1990s,  plans  for  expanding  the  existing  military  es- 
tablishment during  mobilization  were  unclear  to  Western  observ- 
ers. Prior  to  the  1980s,  the  ground  forces  maintained  a  peacetime 
structure  with  low  personnel  strength  and  low  combat  readiness. 
Divisions  would  be  brought  to  full  strength  and  readiness  through 
the  mobilization  of  reserves.  The  smaller  brigade  structure  in- 
troduced in  the  1980s,  however,  made  it  unlikely  that  newly  mobi- 
lized soldiers  could  be  integrated  into  existing  units  in  the  regular 
ground  forces  in  wartime.  Mobilized  troops  were  more  likely  to 
be  employed  as  light  infantry,  special  forces,  or  guerrillas  rather 


223 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

than  in  more  technically  oriented  tank,  artillery,  air  and  air  defense, 
or  naval  units.  However,  the  possibility  of  mobilizing  a  substan- 
tial segment  of  the  population  for  guerrilla  warfare  against  an  ag- 
gressor was  evident  in  the  large  paramilitary  training  program.  The 
emphasis  on  paramilitary  training  increased  after  the  Soviet-led 
Warsaw  Pact  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia  in  1968  demonstrated 
potential  weaknesses  in  Albania's  plans  to  meet  an  attack  by  a  large, 
well-trained  aggressor  force. 

In  the  late  1980s,  even  communist-controlled  Albanian  sources 
referred  to  serious  problems  with  the  attitudes  of  young  people  who 
were  conscripted  into  the  People's  Army.  They  described  social 
malaise,  a  growth  in  religious  belief,  increasing  crime,  and  unwill- 
ingness to  accept  assignments  to  remote  areas  of  the  country. 
Moreover,  the  system  of  social  discipline  that  had  enforced  obliga- 
tory military  service  under  communist  rule  had  completely  disap- 
peared by  January  1992.  Poor  food,  changing  living  and  working 
conditions,  and  low  pay  led  to  increasing  dereliction  of  duty,  ab- 
sence without  leave,  and  desertion.  More  than  500  soldiers  were 
among  the  thousands  of  Albanians  who  fled  to  Italy  and  Greece 
in  1991.  The  reduction  in  conscript  service  to  eighteen  months  in 
1991  exacerbated  the  serious  and  growing  problem  of  unemploy- 
ment among  the  male  draft-age  population.  In  early  1992,  the 
problems  of  manning  the  People's  Army  continued  to  mount. 

Conscript  Training 

Before  1961  military  training  relied  on  the  Soviet  model.  Training 
manuals  and  materials  were  translated  from  Russian  into  Albanian. 
But  even  though  China  replaced  the  Soviet  Union  as  Albania's  for- 
eign patron,  the  Chinese  apparently  made  few  basic  changes  in 
Albania's  military  training  programs.  Most  conscripts  received  con- 
siderable physical  conditioning,  drill,  and  other  basic  training  in 
school  and  through  the  communist  youth  organization.  This  foun- 
dation allowed  the  military  to  move  conscripts  rapidly  into  tacti- 
cal combat  training  and  small  unit  exercises.  Tactical  training 
typically  involved  preparation  for  fighting  in  defensive  positions 
in  the  mountainous  terrain  characteristic  of  the  country's  interior. 
It  emphasized  physical  conditioning,  employment  of  light  weapons, 
and  the  use  of  minimal  amounts  of  materiel  and  other  support. 
At  least  until  1991,  the  training  program  also  devoted  substantial 
time  to  political  indoctrination  conducted  by  political  officers. 

Service  within  the  naval  forces  traditionally  has  been  a  specialty, 
and  many  conscripts  from  Vlore  or  Durres  were  assigned  to  the 
naval  forces  because  of  their  familiarity  with  small  craft  and  navi- 
gation. As  a  result,  they  rarely  served  their  term  in  the  military 


224 


National  Security 


out  of  sight  of  their  homes,  and  because  the  level  of  naval  deploy- 
ments and  training  was  low,  they  remained  available  for  part-time 
fishing  or  other  work. 

In  general,  the  frequent  use  of  conscripts  as  laborers  on  economic 
projects  has  detracted  from  military  training.  They  have  often  been 
used  in  the  construction  of  factories,  oil  refineries,  and  hydroelec- 
tric plants;  during  harvests;  and  for  land  reclamation  efforts. 

Paramilitary  Training 

The  experience  of  the  resistance  to  the  Italian  and  German  oc- 
cupations during  World  War  II,  in  which  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren participated,  provided  the  inspiration  for  an  extensive  program 
of  paramilitary  training  for  virtually  all  segments  of  the  Albanian 
population.  The  program,  which  began  at  the  end  of  the  war,  fo- 
cused on  young  people  from  the  early  1950s  on.  Paramilitary  train- 
ing developed  to  the  point  that  many  fifteen-  to  nineteen-year-old 
youths  could  be  organized  to  fight  as  partisan  forces  or  to  operate 
as  auxiliary  units  during  a  national  emergency.  Its  main  purpose 
was,  however,  to  provide  the  armed  forces  with  conscripts  in  good 
physical  condition  and  with  sufficient  basic  military  training  and 
knowledge  to  enter  a  military  unit  and  perform  satisfactorily  with 
a  minimum  of  adjustment.  The  academic  year  for  secondary  school 
and  university  students  traditionally  included  one  month  and  two 
months  of  full-time  paramilitary  training,  respectively.  Paramili- 
tary training  did  not  exclude  older  Albanians,  however.  Until  age 
fifty,  men  were  obligated  to  spend  twelve  days  per  year  in  paramili- 
tary training.  Women  participated  for  seven  days  per  year  until 
age  forty. 

Paramilitary  training  included  extensive  physical  conditioning, 
close-order  drill,  hand-to-hand  combat,  small  arms  handling,  demo- 
lition, and  tactical  exercises  applicable  to  guerrilla  operations.  It 
was  conducted  in  secondary  schools  by  military  officers  assigned 
to  them  and  also  at  military  units  to  which  the  schools  were  at- 
tached for  training  purposes.  Paramilitary  programs  of  the  com- 
munist youth  organizations  were  similar  to  those  conducted  in  the 
secondary  schools.  Albanian  youths  carrying  rifles  and  machine 
guns  marched  in  May  Day  parades.  As  many  as  200,000  young 
people  participated  in  paramilitary  training  each  year. 

Military  Schools 

Specialized  military  schools  were  essentially  scaled-down  copies 
of  those  in  the  Soviet  Union.  Three  military  schools  trained  officers 
for  the  People's  Army  or  provided  advanced  professional  training 
for  mid-career  officers.  The  Skanderbeg  Military  School  was  a 


225 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

secondary  school  that  prepared  students  to  enter  the  United  Higher 
Officers'  School.  Students  at  Skanderbeg  were  generally  sons  of 
party,  government,  and  military  leaders.  The  United  Higher 
Officers'  School,  formerly  named  for  Enver  Hoxha,  was  the  ol- 
dest military  education  institution  in  the  country.  According  to  the 
APL,  it  began  operating  before  German  occupation  forces  left  the 
country  in  1944  and  initiated  a  formal  curriculum  in  1945.  Its 
graduates  received  a  university  degree  and  became  commissioned 
officers.  The  Military  Academy,  once  named  for  Mehmet  Shehu, 
was  an  advanced  institution  offering  training  equivalent  to  that  of 
command  and  staff  schools  or  war  colleges  in  Western  military  es- 
tablishments. It  provided  specialized  officer  courses  for  pilots  and 
those  serving  in  artillery  units  or  aboard  ship. 

Military  Budget  and  the  Economy 

Assessments  of  the  impact  of  defense  expenditures  on  Albania's 
economy  traditionally  have  been  hampered  by  the  lack  of  govern- 
ment statistics  on  overall  economic  performance  and  the  Albani- 
an economy's  isolation  from  the  international  economy.  Albania 
generally  appropriated  1  billion  leks  (for  value  of  the  lek — see  Glos- 
sary) per  year  for  the  military  budget,  or  about  5  percent  of  an 
estimated  late  1980  gross  domestic  product  (GNP — see  Glossary) 
of  20  billion  leks.  This  figure  was  a  relatively  modest  burden  on 
the  economy  compared  to  that  borne  by  other  communist  coun- 
tries. However,  the  absence  of  reliable  statistics  made  it  difficult 
to  calculate  this  budget  as  a  percentage  of  total  government  spend- 
ing, a  common  indicator  of  the  priority  accorded  defense.  It  likely 
represented  approximately  10  percent  of  government  expenditures. 
However,  some  significant  costs  were  probably  hidden  in  nonmili- 
tary  elements  of  the  government  budget,  thus  understating  the 
defense  effort  as  a  portion  of  total  spending.  The  low  subsistence 
wages  paid  to  conscripts  also  provided  a  downward  bias.  Given 
Albania's  low  standard  of  living,  per  capita  military  expenditures 
were  high  when  compared  with  average  family  earnings,  the  bulk 
of  which  were  required  to  obtain  such  basic  necessities  as  food,  cloth- 
ing, and  housing. 

The  Albanian  Democratic  Party  has  asserted  that  large  defense 
expenditures  during  communist  rule  impoverished  Albania.  It  cited 
annual  drills  for  military  reservists  and  live-fire  exercises  for  in- 
fantry and  artillery  units  as  costing  Albania  100  million  leks,  an 
amount  equal  to  the  yearly  municipal  budget  for  Tirane.  Moreover, 
the  new  coalition  government  that  took  office  in  June  1991,  in  a 
move  that  probably  indicated  that  the  military  budget  had  imposed 


226 


National  Security 


a  hardship  on  the  civilian  economy,  announced  an  immediate 
20-percent  reduction  in  defense  spending. 

Internal  Security 

During  the  period  of  uninterrupted  communist  rule  from  1944 
to  1991,  the  pervasiveness  of  repression  made  it  difficult  for  infor- 
mation on  internal  developments  in  Albania  to  reach  the  outside 
world.  It  was  the  most  closed  and  isolated  society  in  Europe.  The 
few  Western  observers  who  visited  the  country  after  World  War 
II  were  not  in  a  position  to  see  or  to  judge  its  internal  conditions 
independently,  but  their  statements  concerning  the  police- state  at- 
mosphere in  the  country  indicated  that  public  order  was  rigidly 
maintained.  It  was  impossible  for  visitors  to  move  around  the  coun- 
try without  escorts,  and  conversation  or  interaction  with  ordinary 
citizens  was  inhibited.  Local  police  and  internal  security  forces  were 
in  evidence  everywhere.  Albanian  sources  published  little  concern- 
ing the  internal  security  situation,  and  reliable  information  was 
lacking  beyond  infrequent  officially  approved  statements  and  data 
that  generally  covered  political  crimes  deemed  threatening  to  the 
party  or  state.  However,  this  situation  began  to  change  drastically 
in  1991,  in  part  because  of  the  efforts  of  the  Albanian  Democratic 
Party,  which  advocated  restructuring  the  security  organs  and  purg- 
ing officials  who  had  repressed  the  population  under  Hoxha  and 
Alia.  In  early  1992,  officials  responsible  for  preventing  or  inves- 
tigating crime  were  disorganized  as  a  result  of  political  changes 
in  the  country  and  were  unsure  how  to  operate  effectively.  Or- 
ganizational change  in  the  police  and  security  forces,  initiated  by 
the  communist-dominated  coalition  government,  also  inhibited  their 
effectiveness  at  least  for  a  time. 

Domestic  Repression  under  Hoxha  and  Alia 

Enver  Hoxha  was  one  of  the  last  Stalinist  leaders  in  Eastern  Eu- 
rope and  continued  to  employ  Stalinist  techniques  for  controlling 
the  population  long  after  most  other  East  European  countries  had 
shifted  from  outright  terror  and  repression  to  more  subtle  bureau- 
cratic-authoritarian methods.  Western  observers  believed  that 
no  other  communist  country  had  as  extensive  a  police  and  secu- 
rity organization  relative  to  its  size  as  the  one  that  operated  in 
Albania. 

Hoxha  regarded  the  security  police  as  an  elite  group,  and  it  un- 
derpinned the  power  of  the  ACP  and  then  the  APL  during  the  peri- 
od they  dominated  Albania's  one-party  political  system.  The  secret 
police  was  instrumental  in  enabling  Hoxha  and  the  communist  par- 
ty to  consolidate  power  after  1944  by  conducting  a  campaign  of 


227 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

intimidation  and  terror  against  prewar  politicians  and  rival  groups. 
Persecution  of  these  opponents  in  show  trials  on  charges  of  trea- 
son, conspiracy,  subversion,  espionage,  or  anti-Albanian  agitation 
and  propaganda  became  common.  From  1948  until  the  early  1960s, 
the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  was  involved  in  the  search  for  real 
or  alleged  Yugoslav  agents  or  Titoists  in  Albania,  and  the  minis- 
try itself  was  an  initial  battleground  in  the  purge  of  Yugoslav  in- 
fluence. Yugoslav  control  of  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  ran 
deep  in  the  years  immediately  following  World  War  II.  Its  chief, 
Koci  Xoxe,  was  part  of  the  pro- Yugoslav  faction  of  the  party  and 
a  rival  to  Hoxha.  In  1949,  however,  he  was  arrested,  convicted 
in  a  secret  trial,  and  executed. 

Hoxha  maintained  a  Stalinist  political  system  even  after  the  com- 
munist regimes  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  China  had  long  since 
moderated  their  totalitarian  or  radical  excesses.  In  the  last  years 
of  Hoxha's  life,  the  Directorate  of  State  Security  (Drejtorija  e 
Sigurimit  te  Shtetit — Sigurimi),  increased  its  political  power, 
perhaps  to  the  extent  of  supplanting  party  control.  After  Hoxha's 
death,  the  security  forces  viewed  his  successor,  Ramiz  Alia,  and 
his  modest  reforms  with  suspicion.  In  the  late  1980s,  they  report- 
edly supported  a  group  of  conservatives  centered  around  Hoxha's 
widow,  in  opposition  to  Alia. 

Under  Hoxha  the  communist  regime  essentially  ignored  inter- 
nationally recognized  standards  of  human  rights.  According  to  a 
landmark  Amnesty  International  report  published  in  1984,  Alba- 
nia's human  rights  record  was  dismal  under  Hoxha.  The  regime 
denied  its  citizens  freedom  of  expression,  religion,  movement,  and 
association  although  the  constitution  of  1976  ostensibly  guaranteed 
each  of  these  rights.  In  fact,  the  constitution  effectively  circum- 
scribed the  exercise  of  political  liberties  that  the  regime  interpret- 
ed as  contrary  to  the  established  socialist  order.  In  addition,  the 
regime  tried  to  deny  the  population  access  to  information  other 
than  that  disseminated  by  the  government-controlled  media.  The 
secret  police  routinely  violated  the  privacy  of  persons,  homes,  and 
communications  and  made  arbitrary  arrests.  The  courts  ensured 
that  verdicts  were  rendered  from  the  party's  political  perspective 
rather  than  affording  due  process  to  the  accused,  who  were  occa- 
sionally sentenced  without  even  the  formality  of  a  trial. 

After  Hoxha's  death,  Alia  was  apparently  unable  or  unwilling 
to  maintain  the  totalitarian  system  of  terror,  coercion,  and  repres- 
sion that  Hoxha  had  employed  to  maintain  his  grip  on  the  party 
and  the  country.  Alia  relaxed  the  most  overt  Stalinist  controls  over 
the  population  and  instructed  the  internal  security  structure  to  use 
more  subtie,  bureaucratic- authoritarian  mechanisms  characteristic 


228 


National  Security 


of  the  post-Stalin  Soviet  Union  and  East  European  regimes.  He 
allowed  greater  contact  with  the  outside  world,  including  eased  trav- 
el restrictions  for  Albanians,  although  the  Sigurimi  demanded  bribes 
equivalent  to  six  months'  salary  for  the  average  Albanian  to  ob- 
tain the  documents  needed  for  a  passport.  More  foreigners  were 
allowed  to  visit  Albania,  and  they  reported  a  generally  more  relaxed 
atmosphere  among  the  population  as  well  as  a  less  repressive  politi- 
cal and  antireligious  climate.  Official  sources  admitted  that  social 
discipline,  especially  among  young  Albanians,  was  breaking  down 
in  the  late  1980s.  The  country's  youth  increasingly  refused  to  accept 
and  even  openly  rejected  the  values  advanced  under  the  official 
communist  ideology.  Moreover,  small-scale  rebellions  were  reported 
more  frequently  after  Hoxha's  death.  Yet  these  developments  did 
not  alter  the  regime's  exclusive  hold  on  political  power  after  the 
1980s. 

The  dramatic  collapse  of  communist  rule  in  Eastern  Europe  in 
1989  apparently  had  a  devastating  effect  on  the  internal  social  and 
political  situation  in  Albania  despite  Alia's  efforts  to  contain  it.  Mas- 
sive demonstrations  against  communist  rule  followed  by  liberali- 
zation and  democratization  in  Eastern  Europe  began  to  affect 
Albania  in  1990  .  The  power  of  the  security  police  was  successfully 
challenged  by  massive  numbers  of  largely  unorganized  demonstra- 
tors demanding  reforms  and  democratic  elections.  Unrest  began 
with  demonstrations  in  Shkoder  in  January  1990  that  forced  authori- 
ties to  declare  a  state  of  emergency  to  quell  the  protests.  Berat  work- 
ers staged  strikes  protesting  low  wages  in  May.  During  July  1990, 
approximately  5,000  Albanians  sought  refuge  on  the  grounds  of 
foreign  embassies  in  an  effort  to  flee  Albania.  The  security  forces 
reportedly  killed  hundreds  of  asylum  seekers  either  in  the  streets 
outside  foreign  compounds  or  after  they  were  detained,  but  even 
such  extreme  measures  did  not  stanch  the  unrest. 

In  September  1990,  Alia  acceded  to  the  requirements  of  the  Con- 
ference on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  committing  Al- 
bania to  respect  the  human  rights  and  political  freedoms  embodied 
in  the  1975  Helsinki  Accords.  When  students  organized  demon- 
strations in  December  1990,  their  demands  for  political  pluralism 
received  widespread  support  (see  Further  Moves  Toward  Democra- 
cy, ch.  4).  Attempts  by  riot  police  to  break  up  the  demonstrations 
failed,  and  the  party's  Central  Committee,  in  an  extraordinary 
meeting  called  by  Alia  to  discuss  the  growing  unrest,  decided  not 
to  use  further  force.  The  following  year,  the  security  forces  were 
not  in  evidence  at  large  political  demonstrations  and  were  unable 
to  stop  thousands  of  refugees  from  boarding  ships  bound  for  Italy 
or  from  crossing  the  border  into  Greece.  However,  the  security 


229 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

forces  attempted  to  maintain  control  by  forcing  the  authorities  to 
give  the  People's  Army  control  over  the  ports  of  Vlore,  Durres, 
Shengjin,  and  Sarande.  The  army  was  ordered  to  clear  the  ports 
of  potential  refugees  and  to  establish  a  blockade  around  them. 

Penal  Code 

Prior  to  the  reforms  of  the  early  1990s,  a  politically  and  ideo- 
logically oriented  penal  code  facilitated  systematic  violations  of  hu- 
man rights  and  ensured  the  communist  party  control  over  all  aspects 
of  Albania's  political,  economic,  and  cultural  life.  Article  53  of  the 
1982  code,  for  example,  broadly  defined  sabotage  as  "activity  or 
inactivity  to  weaken  or  undermine  the  operations  of  the  state  and 
the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor,  the  socialist  economy,  and  the  or- 
ganization and  administration  of  the  state  and  society" — a  crime 
punishable  by  at  least  ten  years'  imprisonment  or  by  death.  The 
crime  of  "fascist,  anti-democratic,  religious,  warmongering,  and 
anti- socialist  agitation  and  propaganda,"  as  defined  by  Article  55, 
carried  a  penalty  of  three  to  ten  years'  imprisonment  or,  in  war- 
time, not  less  than  ten  years'  imprisonment  or  death.  Article  47 
stipulated  a  penalty  of  not  less  than  ten  years  or  death  for  "flight 
from  the  state"  or  for  "refusal  to  return  to  the  fatherland."  The 
penal  code  listed  a  total  of  thirty-four  offenses  punishable  by  death, 
of  which  twelve  were  political  and  eleven  were  military.  Although 
individuals  accused  of  criminal  behavior  theoretically  had  the  right 
to  present  a  defense,  they  could  not  avail  themselves  of  the  ser- 
vices of  a  professional  attorney;  the  private  practice  of  law  in  Al- 
bania had  been  banned  in  1967. 

In  1990,  following  serious  and  widespread  public  unrest,  steps 
were  taken  to  liberalize  the  penal  code.  The  number  of  offenses 
punishable  by  death  was  reduced  from  thirty-four  to  eleven,  women 
were  exempted  from  the  death  penalty,  the  maximum  prison  sen- 
tence for  "anti- socialist  agitation  and  propaganda"  was  reduced 
from  twenty-five  to  ten  years,  the  maximum  prison  sentence  for 
attempts  to  leave  the  country  illegally  also  was  reduced  from  twenty- 
five  to  ten  years,  the  legal  status  of  lawyers  was  restored,  and  the 
official  ban  on  religious  activity  was  abolished. 

Penal  System 

The  communist  regime  maintained  an  extensive  system  of  prisons 
and  labor  camps,  including  six  institutions  for  political  prisoners, 
nine  for  nonpolitical  prisoners,  and  fourteen  where  political  pris- 
oners served  their  sentences  together  with  regular  criminals.  In- 
mates provided  the  state's  vital  mining  industry  with  an  inexpensive 


230 


National  Security 


source  of  labor.  In  1985  there  were  an  estimated  32,000  prisoners 
in  the  country. 

Conditions  in  the  prisons  and  labor  camps  were  abysmal. 
Maltreatment  as  well  as  physical  and  mental  torture  of  political 
prisoners  and  other  prisoners  of  conscience  were  common.  Sporadic 
strikes  and  rebellions  in  the  labor  camps,  to  which  the  Sigurimi 
often  responded  with  military  force,  resulted  in  the  death  of  more 
than  1,000  prisoners  as  well  as  the  execution  of  many  survivors 
after  they  were  suppressed. 

Many  political  prisoners  were  purged  party  officials  and  their 
relatives.  Reflecting  Hoxha's  paranoia,  some  of  them  were  resen- 
tenced without  trial  for  allegedly  participating  in  political  conspira- 
cies while  in  prison.  Former  inmates  reported  that  they  managed 
to  survive  their  incarceration  only  through  the  assistance  of  rela- 
tives who  brought  them  food  and  money. 

Under  Alia,  several  amnesties  resulted  in  the  release  of  nearly 
20  percent  of  the  large  prison  and  labor-camp  population,  although 
most  of  those  released  were  prisoners  over  the  age  of  sixty  who  had 
already  served  long  terms.  In  1991 ,  for  example,  the  APL  attempted 
to  improve  its  popularity  by  pushing  a  sweeping  amnesty  law  for 
political  prisoners  through  the  communist-dominated  People's  As- 
sembly, and  all  such  prisoners  were  freed  by  the  middle  of  the  year. 
The  amnesty  law  provided  for  the  rehabilitation  of  those  incarcer- 
ated for  political  crimes,  but  not  persons  convicted  of  terrorist  acts 
that  resulted  in  deaths  or  other  serious  consequences.  Specifically, 
it  applied  to  persons  sentenced  for  agitation  and  propaganda  against 
the  state;  participation  in  illegal  political  organizations,  meetings, 
or  demonstrations;  failure  to  report  crimes  against  the  state;  slan- 
dering or  insulting  the  state;  and  absence  without  leave  or  deser- 
tion from  military  service.  It  provided  for  material  compensation, 
including  lost  wages  or  pensions,  for  time  spent  in  prison;  for 
preferential  access  to  housing,  education,  and  employment;  and 
gave  compensatory  damages  to  the  families  of  political  prisoners 
who  were  executed  or  who  died  in  detention  without  trial.  Final- 
ly, it  established  a  commission  that  included  members  of  the  new, 
independent  Association  of  Former  Political  Prisoners  to  investigate 
atrocities  carried  out  by  the  state. 

Security  Forces 

Until  April  1991 ,  all  security  and  police  forces  were  responsible  to 
the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  which  also  exercised  authority  over 
the  judicial  system  and  the  implementation  and  enforcement  of  the 
country's  laws.  In  January  1991,  the  minister  of  internal  affairs, 
Simon  Stefani,  held  both  high  communist  party  and  government 


231 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


posts  as  a  member  of  the  Politburo  and  as  one  of  three  deputy  prime 
ministers. 

Each  security  or  police  organization — the  Sigurimi,  the  Frontier 
Guards,  and  the  People's  Police — constituted  a  separate  directorate 
within  the  ministry-;  each  had  a  larger  proportion  of  personnel  who 
were  party  members  than  did  the  armed  forces  because  of  the  need 
for  political  reliability.  In  the  Sigurimi,  for  example,  nearly  all  serv- 
ing personnel  were  believed  to  be  party  members.  In  the  Frontier 
Guards  and  People's  Police,  all  officers  and  many  other  personnel 
were  party  members. 

The  Sigurimi  were  the  security  police  forces.  Organized  to  pro- 
tect the  party  and  government  system,  these  forces  were  responsi- 
ble for  suppressing  deviation  from  communist  ideology  and  for 
investigating  serious  crimes  on  a  national  scale.  Frontier  Guards, 
as  their  name  implied,  maintained  the  security  of  state  borders. 
The  People's  Police  were  the  local  or  municipal  police. 

In  April  1991 ,  shortly  after  the  country's  first  free  elections,  the 
communist-dominated  People's  Assembly  abolished  the  Ministry 
of  Internal  Affairs.  It  was  replaced  by  a  new  Ministry  of  Public 
Order  with  authority  over  the  People's  Police.  In  addition,  the  chair- 
man of  a  new  National  Security  Committee  within  the  Council  of 
Ministers  was  given  control  over  the  Sigurimi.  Both  organizations, 
however,  were  headed  by  the  same  officials  who  had  directed  them 
within  the  old  Ministry-  of  Internal  Affairs. 

In  July  1991,  the  communist-dominated  legislature  abolished  the 
Sigurimi  and  established  a  new  National  Information  Service  (NIS) 
in  its  place.  It  was  unclear  to  Western  observers  to  what  extent 
the  new  organization  would  be  different  from  its  much-hated 
predecessor  because  at  least  some  of  its  personnel  probably  had 
served  in  the  Sigurimi.  Only  former  Sigurimi  leaders  were  excluded 
from  the  new  NIS.  Opponents  of  the  Sigurimi  argued  that  former 
officers  should  not  be  rehired  but  replaced  with  new,  untainted 
government  employees.  The  officers,  however,  argued  that  the  new 
organization  needed  experienced  investigators  who  had  not  vio- 
lated existing  laws  or  abused  their  power  as  Sigurimi  officers. 

The  NIS's  stated  mission  was  to  enforce  the  constitution  and 
laws  of  .Albania  and  the  civil  rights  of  its  citizens.  It  was  forbidden 
to  conduct  unauthorized  investigations,  and  it  was  required  to 
respect  the  rights  of  citizens  in  every  case  except  instances  in  which 
the  constitution  itself  had  been  violated.  Political  activities  within 
the  NIS  were  banned. 

In  1991  the  rate  of  reported  homicides  doubled  and  robberies 
tripled  over  the  similar  period  in  1990.  Instances  of  illegal  posses- 
sion and  use  of  firearms  were  reported.  The  increase  in  violent  crime 


232 


Albanian  riot  police  maintaining  order  as 
refuge- seekers  return  from  Italy 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

was  viewed  so  seriously  that  some  citizens  believed  that  social  anar- 
chy was  overwhelming  the  state's  ability  to  handle  it.  The  end  of 
the  party's  monopoly  on  political  power  and  the  curbing  of  the  coer- 
cive power  of  the  state's  law  enforcement  mechanism  gave  many 
common  criminals  courage  to  act.  The  minister  of  public  order 
cited  a  general  breakdown  in  law  enforcement  and  public  safety 
in  Albania  in  1991 .  He  reported  that  many  crimes  were  being  com- 
mitted by  unemployed  individuals,  common  criminals  inadvertentiy 
released  from  prison  under  political  amnesties,  and  citizens  tak- 
ing revenge  on  officials  of  the  former  communist  regime.  He  blamed 
many  problems  of  the  police  on  their  former  cooperation  with  the 
Sigurimi  in  its  role  of  protecting  the  party  and  state  against  the 
citizens.  According  to  the  minister,  the  police  would  be  depoliti- 
cized,  and  patriotic,  legal,  and  professional  training  would  replace 
members'  former  political  indoctrination. 

When  the  People's  Assembly  established  the  Ministry  of  Public 
Order,  it  placed  the  Frontier  Guards  and  the  Directorate  of  Prison 
Administration,  both  of  which  had  been  in  the  Ministry  of  Internal 
Affairs,  in  the  Ministry  of  People's  Defense  and  the  Ministry  of 
Justice,  respectively.  Shortly  thereafter,  in  an  effort  to  stem  the  flow 
of  Albanian  refugees  and  growing  problems  with  drug  trafficking 


233 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

through  Albanian  territory,  Italy  signed  a  cooperation  agreement 
with  Albania  under  which  it  would  help  train  and  equip  the 
demoralized  police  and  Frontier  Guards.  Albania  sought  similar 
assistance  from  Finland  and  Romania  and  applied  to  join  the  In- 
ternational Police  Organization  (Interpol).  The  head  of  the  Direc- 
torate of  Prison  Administration  pledged  to  improve  physical 
conditions  in  Albania's  prisons,  to  terminate  routine  detention  of 
minors  with  adults,  and  to  introduce  corrective,  educational,  and 
recreational  programs. 

The  Directorate  of  Law  and  Order,  the  Directorate  of  Criminal 
Police,  and  the  Directorate  of  Forces  for  the  Restoration  of  Order — 
the  latter  presumably  being  special  riot  control  units — remained 
under  the  control  of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Order.  In  defense  of 
his  decision  not  to  reorganize,  the  minister  of  public  order  cited 
difficulties  in  attempting  to  restructure  the  police  force  when  crime 
was  increasing  rapidly.  He  also  noted  that  planned  cutbacks  would 
reduce  police  personnel  by  30  percent.  Many  Albanians,  however, 
blamed  years  of  communist  dictatorship  and  poverty  for  allowing 
economic  conditions  to  deteriorate  to  the  point  where  the  system 
was  collapsing  in  a  crime  wave  and  local  disorder.  Some  citizens 
believed  that  they  needed  the  right  to  carry  arms  as  protection 
against  increasing  violent  crime  and  social  anarchy. 

Directorate  of  State  Security 

The  Directorate  of  State  Security,  or  Sigurimi,  which  was 
abolished  in  July  1991  and  replaced  by  the  NIS,  celebrated  March 
20,  1943,  as  its  founding  day.  Hoxha  typically  credited  the  Sigu- 
rimi as  having  been  instrumental  in  his  faction's  gaining  power 
in  Albania  over  other  partisan  groups.  The  People's  Defense  Di- 
vision, formed  in  1945  from  Hoxha' s  most  reliable  resistance  fight- 
ers, was  the  precursor  to  the  Sigurimi 's  5,000  uniformed  internal 
security  force.  In  1989  the  division  was  organized  into  five  regi- 
ments of  mechanized  infantry  that  could  be  ordered  to  quell  domes- 
tic disturbances  posing  a  threat  to  the  party  leadership.  The  Sigurimi 
had  an  estimated  10,000  officers,  approximately  2,500  of  whom 
were  assigned  to  the  People's  Army.  It  was  organized  with  both 
a  national  headquarters  and  district  headquarters  in  each  of  Alba- 
nia's twenty-six  districts. 

The  mission  of  the  Sigurimi,  and  presumably  its  successor,  was 
to  prevent  revolution  and  to  suppress  opposition  to  the  regime. 
Although  groups  of  Albanian  emigres  sought  Western  support  for 
their  efforts  to  overthrow  the  communists  in  the  late  1940s  and  early 
1950s,  they  quickly  ceased  to  be  a  credible  threat  to  the  communist 
regime  because  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  Sigurimi. 


234 


National  Security 


The  activities  of  the  Sigurimi  were  directed  more  toward  politi- 
cal and  ideological  opposition  than  crimes  against  persons  or 
property,  unless  the  latter  were  sufficiently  serious  and  widespread 
to  threaten  the  regime.  Its  activities  permeated  Albanian  society 
to  the  extent  that  every  third  citizen  had  either  served  time  in  labor 
camps  or  been  interrogated  by  Sigurimi  officers.  Sigurimi  person- 
nel were  generally  career  volunteers,  recommended  by  loyal  party 
members  and  subjected  to  careful  political  and  psychological  screen- 
ing before  they  were  selected  to  join  the  service.  They  had  an  elite 
status  and  enjoyed  many  privileges  designed  to  maintain  their  relia- 
bility and  dedication  to  the  party. 

The  Sigurimi  was  organized  into  sections  covering  political  con- 
trol, censorship,  public  records,  prison  camps,  internal  security 
troops,  physical  security,  counterespionage,  and  foreign  intelligence. 
The  political  control  section's  primary  function  was  monitoring  the 
ideological  correctness  of  party  members  and  other  citizens.  It  was 
responsible  for  purging  the  party,  government,  military,  and  its 
own  apparatus  of  individuals  closely  associated  with  Yugoslavia, 
the  Soviet  Union,  or  China  after  Albania  broke  from  successive 
alliances  with  each  of  those  countries.  One  estimate  indicated  that 
at  least  170  communist  party  Politburo  or  Central  Committee  mem- 
bers were  executed  as  a  result  of  the  Sigurimi 's  investigations.  The 
political  control  section  was  also  involved  in  an  extensive  program 
of  monitoring  private  telephone  conversations.  The  censorship  sec- 
tion operated  within  the  press,  radio,  newspapers,  and  other  com- 
munications media  as  well  as  within  cultural  societies,  schools,  and 
other  organizations.  The  public  records  section  administered 
government  documents  and  statistics,  primarily  social  and  economic 
statistics  that  were  handled  as  state  secrets.  The  prison  camps  sec- 
tion was  charged  with  the  political  reeducation  of  inmates  and  the 
evaluation  of  the  degree  to  which  they  posed  a  danger  to  society. 
Local  police  supplied  guards  for  fourteen  prison  camps  through- 
out the  country.  The  physical  security  section  provided  guards  for 
important  party  and  government  officials  and  installations.  The 
counterespionage  section  was  responsible  for  neutralizing  foreign 
intelligence  operations  in  Albania  as  well  as  for  monitoring  domestic 
movements  and  parties  opposed  to  Albania's  communist  party.  Fi- 
nally, the  foreign  intelligence  section  maintained  personnel  abroad 
and  at  home  to  obtain  intelligence  about  foreign  capabilities  and 
intentions  that  affected  Albania's  national  security.  Its  officers  oc- 
cupied cover  positions  in  Albania's  foreign  diplomatic  missions, 
trade  offices,  and  cultural  centers. 

In  early  1992,  information  on  the  organization,  responsibilities, 
and  functions  of  the  NIS  was  not  available  in  Western  publications. 


235 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Some  Western  observers  believed,  however,  that  many  of  the 
officers  and  leaders  of  the  NIS  had  served  in  the  Sigurimi  and  that 
the  basic  structures  of  the  two  organizations  were  similar. 

Frontier  Guards 

In  1989  the  Frontier  Guards  included  about  7,000  troops  or- 
ganized into  battalion-sized  formations.  Although  organized  stricdy 
along  military  lines,  the  Frontier  Guards  were  subordinate  to  the 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  until  its  abolition  in  April  1991  when 
they  were  subordinated  to  the  Ministry  of  People's  Defense.  The 
mission  of  the  Frontier  Guards  was  to  protect  state  borders  and 
to  prevent  criminals,  smugglers,  or  other  infiltrators  from  cross- 
ing them.  In  the  process,  they  were  also  charged  with  stopping  Al- 
banians from  leaving  the  country  illegally.  They  were  effective  in 
enforcing  its  closed  borders,  although  some  Albanians  still  managed 
to  escape.  During  the  period  of  Albania's  greatest  isolation  from 
its  neighbors,  the  lack  of  open  border  crossing  points  simplified 
border  control.  For  example,  in  1985  Albania  opened  its  first  border 
crossing  point  with  Greece,  fourteen  years  after  it  had  reestablished 
diplomatic  relations  with  Athens.  In  1990,  however  the  Frontier 
Guards  were  increasingly  less  able  to  prevent  illegal  crossings  by 
well-armed  citizens,  who  frequently  sought  refuge  in  Greece  and 
Yugoslavia. 

Personnel  for  the  Frontier  Guards  generally  came  from  the  an- 
nual conscription  process  for  military  service,  but  the  organiza- 
tion also  had  career  personnel.  The  Frontier  Guards  training  school 
was  established  in  1953  in  Tirane,  and  its  students,  as  well  as  con- 
scripted Frontier  Guards,  were  carefully  screened  to  ensure  their 
political  reliability. 

People's  Police 

In  1989,  the  People's  Police  had  five  branches:  the  Police  for 
Economic  Objectives,  Communications  Police,  Fire  Police,  De- 
tention Police,  and  General  Police.  The  Police  for  Economic  Ob- 
jectives served  as  a  guard  force  for  state  buildings,  factories, 
construction  projects,  and  similar  enterprises.  The  Communica- 
tions Police  guarded  Albania's  lines  of  communication,  including 
bridges,  railroads,  and  the  telephone  and  telegraph  network.  Fire- 
fighting  was  also  considered  a  police  function  and  was  carried  out 
by  the  Fire  Police.  The  Detention  Police  served  as  prison  and  labor 
camp  guards.  Finally,  the  General  Police  corresponded  to  the  lo- 
cal or  municipal  police  in  other  countries  and  attended  to  traffic 
regulation  and  criminal  investigations. 


236 


On  the  outskirts  of  Tiran  'e,  a  shepherd  uses  a  bunker  to  oversee  his  flock. 

Courtesy  Fred  Conrad 

Although  the  functions  of  the  General  Police  overlapped  with 
those  of  the  security  police  to  some  extent,  the  General  Police  oper- 
ated at  the  local  rather  than  the  national  level.  However,  the  head- 
quarters of  the  General  Police  in  larger  towns  had  internal  security 
sections  that  coordinated  their  activities  with  those  of  the  security 
police.  They  maintained  records  on  political  dissidents,  Albani- 
ans living  outside  their  home  districts,  and  foreign  visitors  and  resi- 
dent aliens.  They  also  monitored  the  identification  cards  that 
Albanian  citizens  were  required  to  carry.  These  cards,  which  con- 
tained family  and  employment  information  and  were  required  for 
travel  between  cities  and  villages,  constituted  an  effective  control 
over  the  movement  of  the  population. 

Service  in  the  People's  Police  was  usually  a  three-year  obliga- 
tion, and  individuals  who  had  previously  served  in  the  armed  ser- 
vices were  preferred.  After  1989,  however,  detailed  information 
on  the  operations,  staffing,  and  training  of  the  People's  Police  was 
generally  not  known  outside  of  Albania. 

Auxiliary  Police 

All  able-bodied  men  were  required  by  a  1948  law  to  spend  two 
months  assisting  the  local  police.  They  served  with  the  People's  Po- 
lice in  their  localities,  wearing  police  uniforms  that  were  distinguished 


237 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

by  a  red  armband.  The  Auxiliary  Police  provided  additional  man- 
power for  the  regular  police  and  also  gave  a  large  segment  of  the 
population  familiarity  with,  and  presumably  a  more  sympathetic 
understanding  of,  police  activities  and  problems. 

In  early  1992,  the  police  and  internal  security  forces  were  los- 
ing the  tight  control  they  once  held  over  the  population.  They,  and 
the  regime  they  supported,  were  beginning  to  yield  to  the  impact 
of  the  popular,  revolutionary  forces  had  that  toppled  the  other  com- 
munist regimes  in  Eastern  Europe  in  late  1989  and  1990.  Although 
poorer,  more  isolated,  and  more  repressed  than  the  peoples  of  the 
other  East  European  communist  countries,  Albanians  were  begin- 
ning to  assert  their  civil  and  human  rights. 

*     *  * 

Up-to-date  English-language  sources  on  Albania's  armed  forces 
and  its  internal  security  apparatus  are  scarce  because  until  1991 
Albania  was  the  most  isolated  and  secretive  state  in  Eastern  Eu- 
rope and  in-depth  research  on  these  subjects  was  inhibited.  Alba- 
nia's print  and  broadcast  media  provided  little  information  on  the 
country's  defense  capabilities  or  policies  and  even  less  on  its  inter- 
nal security  forces.  The  History  of  Albania,  from  its  Origins  to  the  Present 
Day,  by  Stefanaq  Polio  and  Arben  Puto,  and  The  Encyclopedia  of 
Military  History,  by  R.  Ernest  Dupuy  and  Trevor  Dupuy,  present 
historical  perspectives  on  Albania's  national  security  evolution. 
Klaus  Lange's  "Albanian  Security  Policies:  Concepts,  Meaning, 
and  Realisation,"  is  the  best,  and  perhaps  only,  scholarly  article 
exclusively  dedicated  to  Albania's  national  security.  F.  Stephen  Lar- 
rabee  and  Daniel  Nelson  address  Albania's  historical  and  strategic 
relationships  with  its  neighbors  in  the  Balkans,  and  Yugoslavia  in 
particular.  Elez  Biberaj's  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick  provides  a  valu- 
able description  of  the  political  fortunes  of  party  officials  in  the  na- 
tional security  apparatus  and  the  impact  of  the  party's  changing 
foreign  policies  on  national  security. 

The  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service  (FBIS)  translations 
of  broadcasts  from  the  official  Albanian  news  agency  as  well  as  trans- 
lations of  Yugoslav  and  Greek  broadcasts  have  been  good  sources 
on  internal  security  developments,  especially  since  1990.  FBIS  trans- 
lations of  Yugoslav  publications  on  the  military  and  domestic  un- 
rest in  Albania  are  worthwhile  and  probably  generally  accurate 
despite  Yugoslavia's  interest  in  portraying  Albania  in  an  unfavora- 
ble light.  Louis  Zanga,  who  writes  on  Albania  in  Report  on  Eastern 
Europe  for  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  occasionally  discusses 
internal  security  matters.  The  Military  Balance,  published  annually 


238 


National  Security 

by  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  also  provides 
information  on  the  changing  organizational  structure,  size,  and 
equipment  of  the  armed  forces  over  time.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


239 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  of  Largest  Cities  and  Towns,  1987 

3  Structure  of  Realized  Net  Material  Product  by  Sector,  Selected 

Years,  1938-83 

4  Key  Economic  Indicators,  1961-88 

5  Net  Material  Product  by  Branch  of  Origin,  1986,  1988,  and 

1990 

6  Structure  of  Work  Force  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1960-87 

7  Primary  Agricultural  Output,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

8  Structure  of  Industry,  Selected  Years,  1950-88 

9  Output  of  Main  Industrial  Products,  1980,  1985,  and  1988 

10  Production  of  Energy  and  Mineral  Ores,  Selected  Years, 

1980-88 

11  Major  Trading  Partners,  1982-87 

12  Major  Imports,  Selected  Years,  1970-88 

13  Major  Exports,  Selected  Years,  1970-88 


241 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

Meters  

  3.3 

feet 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

...    ,  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Population  of  Largest  Cities  and  Towns,  1987 


City  or  Town 


Population 


City  or  Town 


Population 


Tirane' 
Durres 
Elbasan 
Shkoder 
Vlore  . 
Korce  . 


226,000 
78,700 
78,300 
76,300 
67,700 
61,500 


Berat 

Fier   

Lushnje  .  . 
Kavaje  .  .  . 
Gjirokaster 
Kucove    .  . 


40,500 
40,300 
26,900 
24,200 
23,800 
20,600 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  T  'e  Shqip  'eris'e,  1988  (Statistical 
Yearbook  of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1988),  Tirane,  1988,  26-28. 


Table  3.  Structure  of  Realized  Net  Material 
Product  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1938-83 
(in  percentages,  using  1981  prices)  * 


Sector  1938         1950         1960         1970         1980  1983 


Agriculture   93.1  73.2  37.6  34.2  32.7  34.1 

Industry   3.8  7.0  18.6  28.2  43.6  43.3 

Construction    0.8  3.1  6.5  7.1  6.7  7.8 

Services    2.3  16.7  37.3  30.5  17.0  14.8 


TOTAL  100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0  100.0 


*  Net  material  product — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Bulgaria, 
Albania,  1990-91,  London,  1990,  37. 


243 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Table  4.  Key  Economic  Indicators,  1961-88 
(in  percentage  average  annual  increase) 


1961-70 

1971-80 

1981-88 

7.4 

4.6 

1.7  2 

5.4 

2.2  2 

4.4 

2.2 

-  0.3 

9.8 

7.5 

2.8 

1.5 

1.8 

1.3 

6.0 

3.8 

1.5 

1.0 

-  0.2 

-  2.0 

9.0 

6.7 

0.8 

8.4 

4.9 

1.5 

5.7 

4.6 

3.4 

1  Net  material  product — see  Glossary. 

2  Estimated. 


3  Labor  productivity  is  defined  as  gross  production  per  employee. 

+  Domestic  transportation  by  road,  rail,  and  sea  as  measured  in  ton-kilometers. 

5  At  current  prices. 

Sources:  Based  on  information  from  Per  Sandstrom  and  Orjan  Sjoberg,  "Albanian  Eco- 
nomic Performance:  Stagnation  in  the  1980s,"  Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow],  43,  No. 
5,  1991,  937. 


Table  5.  Net  Material  Product  by  Branch  of  Origin, 
1986,  1988,  and  1990 
(in  millions  of  leks)  * 


Branch  of  Origin 

1986 

1988 

1990 

20,128 

20,821 

20,033 

8,828 

8,376 

8,591 

2,861 

2,851 

2,820 

971 

991 

904 

892 

848 

788 

727 

720 

777 

Other  

  355 

348 

365 

TOTAL 

34,762 

34,955 

34,278 

*  For  value  of  the  lek — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Anders  Aslund  and  Orjan  Sjoberg,  "Privatization  and 
Transition  to  a  Market  Economy  in  Albania,"  Communist  Economics  and  Economic 
Transformation  [Abingdon,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No.  1,  1992,  137. 


244 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Structure  of  Work  Force  by  Sector, 
Selected  Years,  1960-87 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1985 

1987 

55.6 

52.2 

51.4 

51.3 

52.0 

15.1 

19.2 

21.8 

22.3 

22.9 

11.4 

9.9 

9.1 

8.0 

7.1 

Transportation  and  communications    .  . 

2.0 

2.3 

2.5 

2.9 

2.9 

5.9 

5.9 

4.8 

4.8 

4.6 

3.4 

4.7 

4.6 

4.5 

4.4 

Health   

2.7 

2.6 

3.0 

2.8 

2.9 

Other   

3.9 

3.2 

2.8 

3.4 

3.2 

TOTAL 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  T  'e  Shqiperiss,  1988  (Statistical 
Yearbook  of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1988),  Tirane,  1988,  69. 


Table  7.  Primary  Agricultural  Output,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Product 

1979-81  1 

1985 

1987 

1988 

Wheat   

492 

530 

565 

589 

  318 

400 

320 

306 

All  cereals   

916 

1,055 

1,010 

1,024 

  112 

136 

135 

137 

Meat  2   

  52 

54 

55 

56 

,  ,  ,  ,  193 

186 

188 

188 

  44 

47 

48 

48 

  156 

193 

210 

216 

  298 

320 

360 

360 

Milk  

326 

342 

346 

347 

Eggs  

  10 

13.2 

13.2 

14 

1  Annual  averages. 

2  Beef,  mutton,  and  pork. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Bulgaria, 
Albania,  1990-91,  London,  1990,  40. 


245 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Table  8.  Structure  of  Industry, 
Selected  Years,  1950-88 
(in  percentages) 


x  roduct 

1950 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1985 

1988 

T?  J 

si  1 

'to.  J 

3V. <t 

ZJ.O 

nc  o 
ZJ.  3 

L'x.  1 

Oil  

15.5 

14.9 

9.2 

5.7 

5.2 

Light  industry   

7.8 

21.6 

19.9 

15.5 

16.3 

16.2 

7 

1  1  0 

Q  O 
o.U 

D.o 

D.o 

^  1 

Building  materials 

3  3 

4.7 

5.6 

7.9 

6.3 

5.8 

3.1 

2.9 

7.6 

12.5 

14.7 

14.5 

. .  :;  2.2 

0.8 

5.2 

6.4 

7.6 

8.8 

Chromite   

2.1 

2.0 

1.3 

1.7 

1.7 

2.0 

1.6 

0.8 

0.9 

0.8 

0.7 

0.7 

Coal  

1.4 

1.6 

1.5 

1.3 

1.7 

1.7 

Electric  power   

0.5 

1.1 

2.0 

3.6 

2.9 

3.1 

0.3 

0.6 

3.3 

4.7 

5.5 

5.9 

Glass  and  ceramies   

0.2 

0.6 

0.8 

0.8 

0.9 

1.3 

2.2 

3.0 

3.4 

3.8 

Other  

1.5 

0.2 

0.3 

1.1 

1.2 

1.5 

TOTAL  *   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

— means  negligible, 
n.a. — not  available. 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  100  percent  because  of  rounding  or  because  of  unverified  information  in 


source. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  T'e  Shqiperis'e,  1988  (Statistical 
Yearbook  of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1988),  Tirane,  1988,  82. 


246 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Output  of  Main  Industrial  Products, 
1980,  1985,  and  1988 
(in  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  indicated) 


Product 

1980 

1985 

1988 

Electric  power  (in  millions 

  3,717 

3,147 

3,984 

  9.8 

11 

15 

  5.7 

9.4 

116 

  12.2 

11.9 

38.7 

  173 

250 

291 

  96 

107 

96 

  150 

157 

165 

  109 

95 

96 

Urea   

  88 

78 

77 

  72 

73 

81 

  25 

29 

31 

  23 

22 

22 

Machinery  and  equipment  (in 

  350 

465 

496 

:\  ;.'v..  327 

407 

493 

  826 

642 

746 

Bricks  and  tiles  (in 

  294 

295 

319 

Refractory  bricks  (in 

  4.8 

28 

30 

Heavy  cloth  (in 

  12.5 

12.3 

11.3 

Knitwear  (in  millions  of 

  9.8 

11 

12.1 

Footwear  (in  thousands  of 

  4,735 

4,800 

5,396 

Television  receivers  (in 

thousands)   

  21 

21.3 

16.5 

Radio  receivers  (in 

  8 

16 

25 

Cigarettes  (in  millions 

  4,950 

5,348 

5,310 

Soap  and  detergent   

  14.7 

18.2 

21.5 

*  For  value  of  the  lek — see  Glossary 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1991,  1,  London,  1991,  301. 


247 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Production  of  Energy  and  Mineral  Ores, 
Selected  Years,  1980-88 
(in  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  indicated) 


Product  1980  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988 


Energy 

Coal   1,418  2,010  2,100  2,230  2,130  2,184 

Crude  oil   1,900  *      1,300  *      1,200  *      1,400  *      1,200  1,200  * 

Electricity  (in  giga- 

watt-hours)  ...  3,717  3,800  3,147  5,070  4,200  *  3,984 

Ores 

Chromite    1,004  960  1,111  1,207  1,080  1,109 

Copper   769  1,007  989  1,024  1,160  1,087 

Ferronickel    597  1,080  905  n.a.           970  1,067 


n.a. — not  available. 
*  Estimated. 

Sources:  Based  on  information  from  Per  Sandstrom  and  Orjan  Sjoberg,  "Albanian  Economic 
Performance:  Stagnation  in  the  1980s,"  Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow],  43,  No.  5,  1991,  941. 


Table  11.  Major  Trading  Partners,  1982-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Country 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

Imports 

  74 

50 

43 

42 

46 

37  * 

Italy   

  42 

28 

27 

15 

9 

26 

  23 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

  19 

27 

20 

22 

23  * 

25  * 

  17 

17 

15 

13 

21 

16 

  16 

8 

12 

15 

7 

6 

Poland   

  15 

15 

11 

12  * 

12  * 

13  * 

  13 

18 

10 

3 

56 

14* 

  12 

9 

8 

10 

11 

13  * 

  4 

7 

2 

6 

13 

19  * 

  3 

4 

3 

4 

4 

2 

n.a. 

2 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Exports 

  74 

38 

46 

41 

47 

49 

  36 

22 

14 

16 

18 

16 

Italy   

  32 

27 

22 

20 

21 

34 

  27 

30 

25 

27 

28  * 

31  * 

  23 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Poland   

  18 

18 

12 

13  * 

14  * 

15  * 

  17 

4 

9 

12 

5 

3 

  12 

8 

7 

9 

6 

4  * 

  11 

10 

8 

10 

14 

13 

248 


Appendix 


Table  11. — Continued 


Country  1982      1983      1984       1985       1986  1987 


Exports  (continued) 


  9 

15 

28 

17 

6 

8 

  8 

5 

6 

7 

4 

4 

China   

  n.a. 

4 

3 

10 

9 

15 

n.a. — not  available. 
*  Estimated. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Bulgaria, 
Albania,  1990-91,  London,  1990,  47;  and  International  Monetary  Fund,  Direction 
of  Trade  Statistics,  Washington,  n.d. 


Table  12.  Major  Imports,  Selected  Years,  1970-88 
(in  percentages) 


Product 

1970 

1975 

1980 

1985 

1988 

32.8 

45.2 

21.7 

25.1 

31.5 

7.2 

3.8 

2.5 

5.3 

4.8 

21.6 

21.4 

35.8 

27.0 

23.1 

9.4 

8.3 

14.9 

14.1 

12.7 

1.8 

0.9 

2.6 

1.4 

0.1 

14.7 

11.3 

13.5 

12.8 

13.5 

3.4 

5.0 

4.0 

8.3 

8.1 

7.7 

4.1 

5.0 

6.0 

6.2 

TOTAL  *   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Gramoz  Pashko,  "The  Albanian  Economy  at  the 
Beginning  of  the  1990s,"  in  Orjan  Sjoberg  and  Michael  L.  Wyzan  (eds.),  Economic 
Change  in  the  Balkan  States:  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Romania,  and  Yugoslavia,  London,  1991, 
137. 


249 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Major  Exports,  Selected  Years,  1970-88 
(in  percentages) 


Product 

1970 

1975 

1980 

1985 

1988 

Fuels   

27.4 

25.7 

29.0 

15.1 

7.9 

Electric  power   

n.a. 

2.9 

9.1 

7.8 

7.3 

31.1 

26.9 

24.5 

31.5 

39.8 

Chemicals  

1.2 

0.3 

1.2 

0.7 

0.8 

0.1 

0.7 

1.5 

1.0 

1.5 

Nonedible  agricultural  products  .... 

13.1 

9.4 

10.4 

14.6 

16.1 

15.1 

15.5 

8.4 

10.8 

8.7 

4.4 

6.3 

5.4 

8.1 

8.2 

Consumer  goods  

7.6 

12.3 

10.5 

10.7 

9.7 

TOTAL  *   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

n.a. — not  available. 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Gramoz  Pashko,  "The  Albanian  Economy  at  the 
Beginning  of  the  1990s,"  in  Orjan  Sjoberg  and  Michael  L.  Wyzan  (eds.),  Economic 
Change  in  the  Balkan  States:  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Romania,  and  Yugoslavia,  London,  1991, 
137. 


250 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Amery,  Julian.  Sons  of  the  Eagle:  A  Study  in  Guerrilla  War.  London: 
Macmillan,  1948. 

Biberaj,  Elez.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1990. 

Bury,  J.  B.  A  History  of  Greece  to  the  Death  of  Alexander  the  Great.  Lon- 
don: Macmillan,  1956. 

Djilas,  Milovan.  Conversations  with  Stalin.  New  York:  Harcourt, 
Brace,  and  World,  1962. 

Durham,  M.E.  High  Albania.  Boston:  Beacon  Press,  1985. 

Fischer-Galati,  Stephen.  Eastern  Europe  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1981. 

Frasheri,  Kristo.  The  History  of  Albania.  Tirane:  Nairn  Frasheri  State 
Publishing  House,  1964. 

Freedman,  Robert  Owen.  Economic  Warfare  in  the  Communist  Bloc: 
A  Study  of  Soviet  Economic  Pressure  Against  Yugoslavia,  Albania,  and 
Communist  China.  New  York:  Praeger,  1970. 

Gjecov,  Shtjefen.  The  Code  of  Leke  Dukagjini.  New  York:  Gjonlekaj, 
1989. 

Glenny,  Misha.  The  Rebirth  of  History.  London:  Penguin  Books, 
1990. 

Griffith,  William  E.  Albania  and  the  Sino-Soviet  Rift.  Cambridge:  MIT 
Press,  1963. 

Hamm,  Harry.  Albania:  China's  Beachhead  in  Europe.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1963. 

Hasluck,  M.  The  Unwritten  Law  of  Albania.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1954. 

Horvat,  Branko.  Kosovsko  pitanje.  Zagreb:  Globus,  1989. 

Hoxha,  Enver.  The  Titoites.  Tirane:  8  Nentori,  1982. 

 With  Stalin.  Tirane:  8  Nentori,  1981. 

Jelavich,  Barbara.  History  of  the  Balkans.  (2  vols.)  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1983. 

Konitza,  Faik.  "Albania:  The  Rock  Garden  of  Southeastern  Eu- 
rope." Pages  8-28  in  G.M.  Panarity  (ed.),  Albania:  The  Rock 
Garden  of  Southeastern  Europe  and  Other  Essays.  Boston:  Pan- Albanian 
Federation  of  America,  1957. 

Lampe,  John  R. ,  and  Marvin  R.  Jackson.  Balkan  Economic  History, 
1550-1950.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1982. 

Lendvai,  Paul.  Eagles  in  Cobwebs:  Nationalism  and  Communism  in  the 


251 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Balkans.  Garden  City,  New  York:  Doubleday,  1969. 

Logoreci,  Anton.  The  Albanians:  Europe's  Forgotten  Survivors.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1977. 

Marmullaku,  Ramadan.  Albania  and  the  Albanians .  Hamden,  New 
York:  Archon  Books,  1975. 

Ostrogorski,  Georgije.  Istorija  Vizantije.  Belgrade:  Prosveta,  1969. 

Page,  Bruce,  David  Leitch,  and  Phillip  Knightley.  The  Philby  Con- 
spiracy. Garden  City,  New  York:  Doubleday,  1968. 

Pano,  Nicholas  C.  The  People's  Republic  of  Albania.  Baltimore, 
Maryland:  Johns  Hopkins  Press,  1968. 

Pipa,  Arshi.  "The  Political  Culture  of  Hoxha's  Albania."  Pages 
435-64  in  Tariq  Ali  (ed.),  The  Stalinist  Legacy.  London:  Penguin 
Books,  1984. 

Prifti,  Peter  R.  Socialist  Albania  since  1944:  Domestic  and  Foreign  De- 
velopments. Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1978. 

Rothschild,  Joseph.  East  Central  Europe  Between  the  Two  World  Wars. 
Seattle:  University  of  Washington  Press,  1974. 

Seton- Watson,  Hugh.  The  East  European  Revolution.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1956. 

Singleton,  Fred.  A  Short  History  of  the  Yugoslav  Peoples.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Skendi,  Stavro,  et  al.  (eds.).  Albania.  New  York:  Praeger:  1956. 

 .  The  Albanian  National  Awakening.  Princeton:  Princeton 

University  Press,  1967. 

Stickney,  Edith  Pierpont.  Southern  Albania  or  Northern  Epirus  in  Eu- 
ropean International  Affairs,  1912-1923.  Stanford,  California:  Stan- 
ford University  Press,  1926. 

Swire,  Joseph.  Albania:  The  Rise  of  a  Kingdom.  London:  Williams 
and  Norgate,  1929. 

Wolff,  Robert  Lee.  The  Balkans  in  Our  Time.  Cambridge:  Harvard 
University  Press,  1956. 


Chapter  2 

"Albania:  Introductory  Survey."  Pages  284-97  in  The Europa  World 
Year  Book,  1993.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

Andrejevich,  Milan.  "Kosovo:  A  Precarious  Balance  Between  Sta- 
bility and  Civil  War,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report 
on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No.  42,  October  18,  1991,  23-29. 

 "Serbia  Cracks  Down  on  Kosovo,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No. 
30,  July  27,  1990,  48-51. 


252 


Bibliography 


Battiata,  Mary.  "Albania's  Post-Communist  Anarchy,"  Washington 
Post,  March  21,  1992,  Al,  A18. 

Begeja,  Ksanthipi.  The  Family  in  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Al- 
bania. Tirane:  8  Nentori,  1984. 

Berxholi,  Arqile,  and  Perikli  Qiriazi.  Albania:  A  Geographical  View. 
Tirane:  8  Nentori,  1986. 

Biberaj,  Elez.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1990. 

Binder,  David.  ''Albanian  Exile  Writer  Sees  Reform,"  New  York 
Times,  December  6,  1990. 

 .  "Albanians  Expose  High  Living  by  Ex-Rulers,"  New  York 

Times,  August  25,  1991,  A12. 

 "In  the  New  Albania,  a  Whole  New  Brand  of  Chaos," 

New  York  Times,  October  8,  1991,  A7. 

Broun,  Janice  A.  Conscience  and  Captivity:  Religion  in  Eastern  Europe. 
Washington:  Ethics  and  Public  Policy  Center,  1988. 

 . 4  'The  Status  of  Christianity  in  Albania, ' '  Journal  of  Church 

and  State,  28,  Winter  1986,  43-60. 

Cikuli,  Zisa.  Health  Service  in  the  PSR  of  Albania.  Tirane:  8  Nentori, 
1984. 

Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  1.  Chicago:  Encyclopaedia  Britannica, 
1975. 

 The  Encyclopedia  of  Military  History.  (Eds.,  R.  Ernest  Du- 

puy  and  Trevor  Dupuy.)  New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1970. 

Fowler,  Brenda.  "Albania's  Economic  Fall  Devastates  Hospitals," 
New  York  Times,  March  8,  1992,  11. 

Gjinushi,  Skender.  "The  Educational  Reform  in  Albania  Is  Con- 
nected with  the  New  Requirements  of  the  Time,"  Albania  To- 
day [Tirane],  5,  No.  114,  1990,  43-45. 

 .  "We  Are  Advancing  Towards  Compulsory  Secondary 

Education  for  All,"  New  Albania  [Tirane],  No.  1,  1990,  2-3. 

Ikonomi,  Dir.  "Religion  Survives  24  Years  Within  Hearts  of  Al- 
banians," Washington  Times,  December  26,  1991,  A10. 

Kamm,  Henry.  "Albania's  Clerics  Lead  a  Rebirth,"  New  York 
Times,  March  27,  1992,  A3. 

Kolsti,  John.  "Albanianism:  From  the  Humanists  to  Hoxha." 
Pages  15-48  in  George  Klein  and  Milan  J.  Reban  (eds.),  The 
Politics  of  Ethnicity  in  Eastern  Europe.  New  York:  Columbia  Univer- 
sity Press  for  East  European  Monographs,  Boulder,  Colorado, 
1981. 

 "From  Courtyard  to  Cabinet:  The  Political  Emergence 

of  Albanian  Women."  Pages  138-51  in  Sharon  L.  Wolchik  and 
Alfred  G.  Meyer  (eds.),  Women,  State,  and  Party  in  Eastern  Eu- 
rope. Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  1985. 


253 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Minnesota  Lawyers  International  Human  Rights  Committee.  Hu- 
man Rights  in  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania.  Minneapo- 
lis: 1990. 

Moore,  Patrick.  "Noisy  Neighbors  in  the  European  House: 
Albanian-Greek  Relations,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty, 
Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No.  4,  January  26,  1990, 
1-3. 

Perry,  Duncan  M.,  and  Louis  Zanga.  "Minorities:  An  Overview," 
Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe 
[Munich],  2,  No.  50,  December  13,  1991,  3-4. 

Pipa,  Arshi.  The  Politics  of  Language  in  Socialist  Albania.  New  York: 
Columbia  University  Press  for  East  European  Monographs, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1989. 

Sjoberg,  Orjan.  Rural  Change  and  Development  in  Albania.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

Skendi,  Stavro.  Balkan  Cultural  Studies.  New  York:  Columbia 
University  Press  for  East  European  Monographs,  Boulder, 
Colorado,  1980. 

The  Statesman's  Year-Book,  1989-1990.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 

Sudetic,  Charles.  "The  Society  and  Its  Environment."  Pages 
201-87  in  Glenn  Curtis  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study. 
Washington:  GPO,  1992. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1991.  Washington:  1991. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Report  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1990.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  102d, 
1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1991. 

Vejsiu,  YUi.  "On  the  Demographic  Development  of  National 
Minorities  in  Albania,"  New  Albania  [Tirane],  No.  4,  1990,  4. 

 .  "The  Vitality  of  a  Population,"  New  Albania  [Tirane],  No. 

6,  1990,  14-15. 

Vichniac,  Isabelle.  "La  grande  misere  des  enfants  albanais,"  Le 
Monde  [Paris],  No.  193,  November  1991,  3. 

Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  Te  Shqiperise,  1988  (Statistical  Yearbook 
of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1988).  Tirane: 
Komisioni  i  Planit  Te  Shtetit,  Drejtoria  e  Statistikes,  1988. 

"Yugoslavia:  Introductory  Survey."  Pages  3225-46  in  The  Europa 
World  Year  Book,  1993.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

Zanga,  Louis.  "Aid  Stepped  Up  from  Italy  and  Elsewhere,"  Ra- 
dio Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich], 
2,  No.  37,  September  13,  1991,  1-4. 


254 


Bibliography 


 .  "Albania  Moves  Closer  to  the  Islamic  World,"  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  7,  February  12,  1993,  28-31. 

 .  "Albania  Reduced  to  Total  Dependence  on  Foreign  Food 

Aid,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  8,  February  21, 
1992,  46-48. 

 .  "The  Defection  of  Ismail  Kadare,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No. 
47,  November  23,  1990,  1-5. 

 .  "The  Woeful  State  of  Schools,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Ra- 
dio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No.  41,  Oc- 
tober 11,  1991,  1-3. 

(Various  issues  of  the  followings  periodicals  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Albania  Today  [Tirane]  and  New 
Albania  [Tirane].) 


Chapter  3 

Albania.  Chamber  of  Commerce.  Guide  to  the  Albanian  Foreign  Trade 

Enterprises.  Tirane:  n.d. 
 .  Law  on  the  Sanctioning  and  Protection  of  Private  Property,  Free 

Initiative  on  Independent  Private  Activities,  and  Privatization:  Republic 

of  Albania,  People's  Assembly.  (Law  No.  7512.)  August  10,  1991. 
 On  Development  of  Private  Activity.  (Decision  No.  138.)  March 

3,  1991. 

 .  On  Permission  and  Protection  of  Private  Ownership  and  Private 

Activities.  (Decree  No.  7476.)  March  3,  1991. 

"Albania."  Pages  69-96  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States.  London:  Europa,  1992. 

"Albania  and  Its  Chrome,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty, 
RAD  Background  Report  [Munich],  No.  178,  December  8,  1986. 

"Albania  Moving  Along,  But  Slowly,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Ra- 
dio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2,  No.  1,  January  5,  1990,  4. 

"Albanian  Chrome  Resources  Luring  Western  Investment,"  Ameri- 
can Metal  Market,  98,  No.  39,  February  26,  1990,  4. 

"Albania's  New  Five-Year  Plan  Directives,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  RAD  Background  Report  [Munich],  No.  106, 
July  28,  1986. 

'  *  Albanie, ' '  Le  courrier  des  pays  de  Vest  [Paris] ,  Nos.  309- 1 1 ,  August- 
October  1986,  5-17. 

"Alia  Speaks  Openly  about  Albania's  Shortage  of  Food  and 
Goods,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  RAD  Background 
Report  [Munich],  No.  235,  November  23,  1988. 


255 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Aslund,  Anders,  and  Orjan  Sjoberg.  "Privatization  and  Transi- 
tion to  a  Market  Economy  in  Albania,"  Communist  Economies  and 
Economic  Transformation  [Abingdon,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No. 

1,  1992,  135-50. 

Berxholi,  Arqile,  and  Perikli  Qiriazi.  Albania:  A  Geographical  View. 
Tirane:  8  Nentori,  1986. 

Biberaj,  Elez.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1990. 

Bland,  William.  Albania.  Oxford:  Clio  Press,  1988. 

Business  International.  Doing  Business  with  Eastern  Europe.  (A  Busi- 
ness International  European  Research  Report.)  Geneva:  1972. 

Calmes,  Albert.  The  Economic  and  Financial  Situation  in  Albania.  (An- 
nex to  the  Report  Presented  to  the  Council  by  the  Financial  Com- 
mittee on  Its  Eighth  Session.)  Geneva:  Kundig,  1922. 

"Capitalist  Ideas  Mooted,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty, 
Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2,  No.  37,  September  14,  1990,  1. 

Deutche  Bank  Research.  "Albania:  Economic  and  Social  Chaos 
Speeds  up  Change  of  Course,"  Focus:  Eastern  Europe  [Frankfurt 
am  Main],  No,  44,  April  13,  1992,  1-4. 

Economic  Change  in  the  Balkan  States:  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Romania  and 
Yugoslavia.  London:  Pinter,  1991. 

"L'  economie  albanaise  en  1986:  le  recentrage,"  Le  courrier  des pays 
de  Vest  [Paris],  No.  320,  July-August  1987,  57-64. 

"L'  economie  albanaise  en  1988:  priorite  a  1' agriculture,"  Le  courrier 
des  pays  de  Vest  [Paris],  No.  340,  May  1989,  64-70. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Bulgaria,  Albania, 
1990-91.  London,  1990. 

 Country  Report:  Albania  [London],  No.  4,  1989. 

 Country  Report:  Romania,  Bulgaria,  Albania  [London],  No. 

2,  1993,  39-47. 

"Edge  of  the  Abyss,"  Economist  [London],  December  14,  1991,  36. 
The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1991,  London:  Europa,  1991. 
Evans,  John.  "Secretive  Albania  Going  Plastic, ' '  American  Banker, 

155,  No.  204,  October  19,  1990,  10. 
Freedman,  Robert  Owen.  Economic  Warfare  in  the  Communist  Bloc: 

A  Study  of  Soviet  Economic  Pressure  Against  Yugoslavia,  Albania,  and 

Communist  China.  New  York:  Praeger,  1970. 
Geco,  Pandi.  Albania:  A  Physical  and  Economic  Survey.  (Trans.)  New 

York:  CCM  Information,  n.d.  originally  published  as  Shqiper- 

ia,  pamje  fiziko-ekonomike.  Tirane:  1959. 
Gianaris,  Nicholas  V.  The  Economies  of  the  Balkan  Countries.  New 

York:  Praeger,  1982. 
Griffith,  William  E.  Albania  and  the  Sino-Soviet  Rift.  Cambridge:  MIT 

Press,  1963. 


256 


Bibliography 


Harrison,  Joseph  W.  "Albania  Begins  the  Long  Road  Back  from 
Serfdom:  Mineral  Resources  Might  Pave  the  Road  to  the  West, 
with  Contributions  from  Tourism  and  Food  Processing,"  Busi- 
ness America,  113,  No.  2,  January  27,  1992,  12. 

"Heavy  Industry  in  Tiny  Balkan  State  Causing  Serious  Pollution, 
Sources  Say,"  International  Environment  Reporter,  March  1990,  106. 

Hutchings,  Raymond.  "Albanian  Industrialization:  Widening 
Divergence  from  Stalinism."  In  Roland  Schonfeld  et  al.  (eds.), 
"Industrialisierung  und  gesellschaftlicher  Wandel  in  Siidost- 
europa."  (Siidosteuropa-Studien,  No.  42.)  Munich:  Sudost- 
europa-Gesellschaft,  1989. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Direction  of  Trade  Statistics  (annuals 
1981  through  1991). 

Jelavich,  Barbara.  History  of  the  Balkans.  (2  vols.)  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1983. 

Kane,  Ted.  "Albania:  Contentment,"  Third  World  Week,  March 
23,  1990,  26-27. 

Kaser,  Michael.  "Albania  under  and  after  Enver  Hoxha."  Pages 
1-21  in  United  States  Congress,  99th,  2d  Session,  Joint  Eco- 
nomic Committee  (ed.),  East  European  Economies:  Slow  Growth  in 
the  1980s.  (Country  Studies  in  Eastern  Europe  and  Yugoslavia, 
3.)  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Lampe,  John  R.,  and  Marvin  R.  Jackson.  Balkan  Economic  Histo- 
ry, 1550-1950.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1982. 

Lange,  Klaus.  Die  Agrarfrage  in  der  Politik  der  Partei  der  Arbeit  Albaniens. 
Munich:  Trofenik,  1981. 

Lhomel,  Edith.  "L'economie  albanaise  en  1990-1991:  la  verita- 
ble mesure  d'un  echec,"  Le  courrier  des  pays  de  Vest  [Paris],  No. 
362,  September  1991,  62-76. 

"New  Economic  Ideas,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report 
on  Eastern  Europe,  3,  No.  2,  January  11,  1991,  8. 

O'Donnell,  Timothy  S.,  et  al.  (eds.).  World  Economic  Data.  Santa 
Barbara,  California:  ABC-CLIO,  1991. 

Pano,  Nicholas  C. .  The  People's  Republic  of  Albania.  Baltimore:  Johns 
Hopkins  Press,  1968. 

Pashko,  Gramoz.  "The  Albanian  Economy  at  the  Beginning  of 
the  1990s."  Pages  128-46  in  Orjan  Sjoberg  and  Michael  L. 
Wyzan  (eds.).  Economic  Change  in  the  Balkan  States:  Albania,  Bul- 
garia, Romania,  and  Yugoslavia.  London:  Pinter,  1991. 

Prifti,  Peter.  Socialist  Albania  since  1944:  Domestic  and  Foreign  Develop- 
ments. Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1978. 

Rabchevsky,  George  A.  "Geology  and  Chromite  Industry  of  Al- 
bania," Earth  Science,  33,  Autumn  1980,  172. 


257 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

Reed,  Carol.  "Investors  Help  Albania  Make  Modest  Steps  Toward 
Free  Enterprise,"  Washington  Post,  August  13,  1991,  C3. 

Russ,  Wolfgang.  Der  Entwicklungsweg  Albaniens.  Ein  Beitrag  zum  Kon- 
zept  autozentrierter  Entwicklung.  Konigstein,  West  Germany:  Ver- 
lag  Anton  Hain,  1979. 

Sandstrom,  Per,  and  Orjan  Sjoberg.  "Albanian  Economic  Per- 
formance: Stagnation  in  the  1980s,"  Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow],  43, 
No.  5,  1991,  931-47. 

Schnytzer,  Adi.  "Albania:  The  Purge  of  Stalinist  Economic  Ideol- 
ogy." Pages  44-61  in  Ian  Jeffries  (ed.),  Industrial  Reform  in  So- 
cialist Countries:  From  Restructuring  to  Revolution.  Aldershot,  United 
Kingdom:  Elgar,  1992. 

 .  Stalinist  Economic  Strategy  in  Practice:  The  Case  of  Albania.  Ox- 
ford: Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 

Sjoberg,  Orjan.  "A  Contribution  to  the  Geography  of  Hydro- 
Electric  Power  Generation  in  Albania,"  Osterreichische  Osthefte 
[Vienna],  29,  No.  1,  1987,  5-27. 

 Rural  Change  and  Development  in  Albania.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1991. 

Sjoberg,  Orjan,  and  Per  Sandstrom.  The  Albanian  Statistical  Abstract 
of  1988:  Heralding  a  New  Era?  (Working  Papers,  No.  2.)  Uppsa- 
la, Sweden:  Department  of  Soviet  and  East  European  Studies, 
Uppsala  University,  1989. 

Skendi,  Stavro,  et  al.  (eds.).  Albania.  New  York:  Praeger,  1956. 

"Stagnation  persistante  de  l'economie  albanaise  en  1987,"  he  cour- 
rier  des  pays  de  Vest  [Paris],  No.  330,  July-August  1988,  67-71. 

Steiger,  Cyrill.  "Albania's  Unresolved  National  Question,"  Swiss 
Review  of  World  Affairs  [Zurich],  No.  5,  May  1992,  23-24. 

 "Albania:  Up  from  Misery,"  Swiss  Review  of  World  Af- 
fairs [Zurich],  No.  7,  July  1993,'ll-12. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Foreign  Service  Institute.  A 
Reader's  Guide  to  Albania.  Washington:  1990. 

Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  Te  Shqiperise,  1988.  (Statistical  Yearbook 
of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1988.)  Tirane: 
Komisioni  i  Planit  Te  Shtetit,  Drejtoria  e  Statistikes,  1988. 

Vjetari  Statistikor  i  R.P.S.  Te  Shqiperise,  1989.  (Statistical  Yearbook 
of  the  People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania,  1989).  Tirane: 
Komisioni  i  Planit  Te  Shtetit,  Drejtoria  e  Statistikes,  1989. 

Wildermuth,  Andreas.  Die  Krise  der  albanischen  Landwirtschaft. 
Losungsversuche  der  Partei-  und  Staatsfuhrung  unter  Ramiz  Alia.  Neu- 
ried  bei  Miinchen,  West  Germany:  Hieronymus,  1989. 

Wolff,  Robert  Lee.  The  Balkans  in  Our  Time.  Cambridge:  Harvard 
University  Press,  1956. 


258 


Bibliography 


(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Business  East  Europe;  Business  Interna- 
tional; The  Christian  Science  Monitor;  and  Foreign  Broadcast  Infor- 
mation Service,  Daily  Report.) 


Chapter  4 

Artisien,  Patrick  F.R.  "Albania  after  Hoxha,"  SAIS  Review,  6, 
No.  1,  Winter-Spring  1986,  159-68. 

Biberaj,  Elez.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1990. 

 "Albania  at  the  Crossroads,"  Problems  of  Communism,  40, 

September-October  1991,  1-16. 

 Kosovo:  The  Balkan  Powder  Keg.  London:  Research  Insti- 
tute for  the  Study  of  Conflict  and  Terrorism,  1993. 

Commission  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe.  Report  on  the 
United  States  Helsinki  Commission  Delegation  Visit  to  Hungary,  Yu- 
goslavia and  Albania.  Washington:  GPO,  1991. 

Logoreci,  Anton.  The  Albanians:  Europe's  Forgotten  Survivors.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1977. 

Marmullaku,  Ramadan.  Albania  and  the  Albanians .  Hamden,  New 
York:  Archon  Books,  1975. 

Myrdal,  Jan,  and  Gun  Kessle.  Albania  Defiant.  New  York:  Monthly 
Review  Press,  1976. 

Prifti,  Peter  R.  Socialist  Albania  since  1944.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press, 
1978. 

Staar,  Richard  F.  "People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania."  Pages 
1-31  in  Richard  F.  Staar  (ed.),  Communist  Regimes  in  Eastern  Eu- 
rope. Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1988. 

Stavrou,  Nikolaos  A.  "Albania:  The  Domino  That  Refuses  to 
Fall,"  Mediterranean  Quarterly,  1,  No.  2,  Spring  1990,  25-41. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1990.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress, 
102d,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.) 
Washington:  GPO,  February  1991. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Albania: 

Background  Notes.  (Department  of  State  Publication  No.  8217.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Zanga,  Louis.  "Albania:  Democratic  Revival  and  Social  Up- 
heaval," RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  1,  January 
1,  1993,  75-77. 


259 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


 *  'Advocates  of  Democracy  in  Albania,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No. 
25,  June  22,  1990,  1-4. 

 "Albania  and  Turkey  Forge  Closes  Ties,"  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  11,  March  12,  1993,  30-33. 
 "The  Albanian  Democratic  Party,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No. 
9,  March  1,  1991,  1-6. 

 '  'Albanian-Greek  Relations  Reach  a  Low  Point, ' '  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  14,  April  10,  1992,  18-21. 

 "Albanian  President  Defends  His  First  Year  in  Office," 

RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  29,  July  16,  1993, 
23-26. 

 "Albania's  New  Path,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty, 

Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No.  24,  June  15,  1990,  1-5. 

 "Cabinet  Changes  in  Albania,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report 

[Munich],  2,  No.  19,  May  7,  1993,  14-16. 

 "Central  Committee  Proposals  for  Reform,"  Radio  Free 

Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No. 
9,  March  2,  1990,  1-3. 

 "The  Conflict  Escalates,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio 

Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No.  11,  March 

15,  1991,  1-4. 

 "A  Crisis  of  Confidence,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio 

Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No.  16,  April  19, 
1991,  1-4. 

 "Daunting  Tasks  for  Albania's  New  Government," 

RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  21,  May  22,  1992, 
11-17. 

 '  'A  Progress  Report  on  Changes  in  Albania, ' '  Radio  Free 

Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  1,  No. 

16,  April  20,  1990,  1-3. 

 "Ramiz  Alia  under  Great  Pressure,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich],  2,  No. 
8,  February  22,  1991,  1-4. 


Chapter  5 

Amnesty  International.  Albania:  Political  Imprisonment  and  the  Law. 
London:  1984. 

Austin,  Robert.  "What  Albania  Adds  to  the  Balkan  Stew,"  Orbis, 
37,  No.  2,  Spring  1993,  259-79. 


260 


Bibliography 


Biberaj,  Elez.  Albania:  A  Socialist  Maverick.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1990. 

The  Encyclopedia  of  Military  History  (Eds.,  R.  Ernest  Dupuy  and 
Trevor  Dupuy.)  New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1970. 

Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service — FBIS  (Washington).  The 
following  items  are  from  the  FBIS  series: 
Daily  Report:  East  Europe. 

"Albanians  Cross  Yugoslav  Border  Illegally."  (FBIS-EEU- 

90-131,  July  9,  1990,  24.). 
"Army  under  Surveillance."  (FBIS-EEU-90-026,  February  7, 

1990,  8-9.). 

"ATA  Carries  Profiles  of  New  Ministers."  (FBIS-EEU-90-133, 

July  11,  1990,  3.). 
"Defense  Minister:  Army  Size  Must  Be  Cut."  (FBIS-EEU- 

92-082,  April  28,  1992,  2.). 
"Four  Armed  Albanians  Surrender  in  Yugoslavia."  (FBIS- 

EEU-90-01 7,  January  25,  1990,  3.)/ 
"Kico  Mustaqi  Speaks  to  Army  Veterans."  (FBIS-EEU-90- 

180,  September  17,  1990,  4.). 
"Massacre  Allegedly  Took  Place  in  Tirana  at  the  Beginning  of 

July."  (FBIS-EEU-90-173,  September  6,  1990,  1.). 
"Minister  Mustaqi  Speaks  on  Anniversary  of  Navy."  (FBIS- 

EEU-90-160,  August  17,  1990.). 
"National  Army  Youth  Aktiv  Holds  Its  Proceedings."  (FBIS- 
EEU-90-173,  September  6,  1990,  1-2.). 
"A  Principle  Turned  Upside  Down — On  a  Proposal  for  the  Draft 

Constitution  in  the  Newspaper  Rilindja  Demokratike. " 

(FBIS-EEU-91-019,  January  29,  1991,  4-5.). 
"Revolts  in  Albania."  (FBIS-EEU-90-010,  January  16,  1990, 

11-12.). 

"Statement  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  PSRA  on 
Albania's  Participation  in  the  CSCE."  (FBIS-EEU-90- 
180,  September  17,  1990,  1.). 
Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  Mark  Lambert.)  Couls- 

don,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1990. 
Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Christopher  F.  Foss.) 

Coulsdon,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1989. 
Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe.)  Coulsdon, 

United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1990. 
Joint  Publications  Research  Service — JPRS  (Washington).  The  fol- 
lowing items  are  from  the  JPRS  series: 
East  Europe  Report. 

"Democracy  and  Public  Order,"  Zeri  i  Rinise  [Tirane],  August 
3,  1991.  (JPRS-EER-91-130,  August  30,  1991,  1-5.). 


261 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

"Eleven  Years  Lost  in  Albanian  Prisons,  Svenska  Dagbladet  [Stock- 
holm], March  24,  1991.  (JPRS-EER-9 1-060,  May  6,  1991, 
1-3.). 

"For  a  Profound  Restructuring  of  the  Army,"  Rilindja  Demo- 
kratike  [Tirane],  July  20,  1991.  (JPRS-EER-91-144, 
September  26,  1991,  3.). 

"The  Jails:  The  Hell  and  Shame  of  the  Dictatorship,"  Bashkimi 
[Tirane],  July  21,  1991.  QPRS-EER-91-121,  August  13, 

1991,  1-4.). 

"Law  on  Amnesty  for  Political  Prisoners,"  Gazeta  Zyrtare  [Ti- 
rane], October  1991.  (JPRS-EER-92-024-S,  March  3, 

1992,  1-2.). 

"Should  the  Sale  of  Arms  Be  Legalized  or  Should  All  Weapons 
Be  Confiscated?"  Bashkimi  [Tirane] ,  July  17,  1991.  (JPRS- 
EER-91-113,  August  1,  1991,  2-3.). 
Lange,  Klaus.  "Albanian  Security  Policies:  Concepts,  Meaning 

and  Realisation."  Pages  209-19  in  Jonathan  Eyal  (ed.),  The  War- 
saw Pact  and  the  Balkans:  Moscow 's  Southern  Flank.  New  York:  St. 

Martin's  Press,  1989. 
Larrabee,  F.  Stephen.  "Long  Memories  and  Short  Fuses:  Change 

and  Instability  in  the  Balkans,"  International  Security,  15,  No.  3, 

Winter  1990-91,  58-91. 
The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991 .  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1990. 
Nelson,  Daniel  N.  Balkan  Imbroglio:  Politics  and  Security  in  Southeastern 

Europe.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 
Polio,  Stefanaq,  and  Arben  Puto.  The  History  of  Albania:  From  Its 

Origins  to  the  Present  Day.  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul, 

1981. 

Zanga,  Louis.  "Increase  in  Crime  and  Other  Social  Problems," 
Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2, 
No.  39,  September  27,  1991,  1-4. 

 "Military  Undergoes  Reforms,"  Radio  Free  Europe/Ra- 
dio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2,  No.  46,  November  15, 
1991,  1-3. 

 .  "The  New  Government  and  Its  Program,"  Radio  Free 

Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2,  No.  23,  June 
7,  1991,  1-5. 

 "Sigurimi  Dissolved  and  Replaced,"  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe,  2,  No.  35,  August 
30,  1991,  19-21. 


262 


Glossary 


bajrak — A  political  union  of  Geg  clans  under  a  single  head,  the  baj- 
raktar  (q.v.).  Term  literally  means  "standard"  or  "banner." 

bajraktar — The  hereditary  leader  of  a  bajrak  (q.v.).  Term  literally 
means  "standard  bearer." 

Bektashi — An  order  of  dervishes  of  the  Shia  branch  of  the  Muslim 
faith  founded,  according  to  tradition,  by  Hajji  Bektash  Wali 
of  Khorasan,  in  present-day  Iran,  in  the  thirteenth  century  and 
given  definitive  form  by  Balim,  a  sultan  of  the  Ottoman  Em- 
pire in  the  sixteenth  century.  Bektashis  continue  to  exist  in  the 
Balkans,  primarily  in  Albania,  where  their  chief  monastery  is 
at  Tirane. 

bey — Ruler  of  a  province  under  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

caliph — Title  of  honor  adopted  by  the  Ottoman  sultans  in  the  six- 
teenth century,  after  Sultan  Selim  I  conquered  Syria  and  Pales- 
tine, made  Egypt  a  satellite  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  and  was 
recognized  as  guardian  of  the  holy  cities  of  Mecca  and  Medi- 
na. Term  literally  means  "successor";  in  this  context,  the  suc- 
cessor of  the  Prophet  Muhammad. 

Comecon  (Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance) — A  multilater- 
al economic  alliance  headquartered  in  Moscow.  Albania  was 
effectively  expelled  from  Comecon  in  1962  after  the  rift  in  re- 
lations between  Moscow  and  Tirane.  Members  in  1989  were 
Bulgaria,  Cuba,  Czechoslovakia,  the  German  Democratic  Re- 
public (East  Germany),  Hungary,  Mongolia,  Poland,  Ro- 
mania, the  Soviet  Union,  and  Vietnam.  Comecon  was  created 
in  1949,  ostensibly  to  promote  economic  development  of  mem- 
ber states  through  cooperation  and  specialization,  but  actually 
to  enforce  Soviet  economic  domination  of  Eastern  Europe  and 
to  provide  a  counterweight  to  the  Marshall  Plan.  Also  referred 
to  as  CEMA  or  CMEA. 

Cominform  (Communist  Information  Bureau) — An  internation- 
al organization  of  communist  parties,  founded  and  controlled 
by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1947  and  dissolved  in  1956.  The  Comin- 
form published  propaganda  touting  international  communist 
solidarity  but  was  primarily  a  tool  of  Soviet  foreign  policy.  The 
Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  was  expelled  in  June  1948. 

Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE) — 
Furthers  European  security  through  diplomacy,  based  on 
respect  for  human  rights,  and  a  wide  variety  of  policies  and 
commitments  of  its  more  than  fifty  Atlantic,  European,  and 


263 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Asian  member  countries.  Founded  in  August  1975,  in  Helsinki, 
when  thirty-five  nations  signed  the  Final  Act,  a  politically  bind- 
ing declaratory  understanding  of  the  democratic  principles 
governing  relations  among  nations,  which  is  better  known  as 
the  Helsinki  Accords  (q.  v.). 
Constantinople — Originally  a  Greek  city,  Byzantium,  it  was  made 
the  capital  of  the  Byzantine  Empire  by  Constantine  the  Great 
and  was  soon  renamed  Constantinople  in  his  honor.  The  city 
was  captured  by  the  Turks  in  1453  and  became  the  capital  of 
the  Ottoman  Empire.  The  Turks  called  the  city  Istanbul,  but 
most  of  the  non-Muslim  world  knew  it  as  Constantinople  un- 
til about  1930. 

cult  of  personality — A  term  coined  by  Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  at  the 
Twentieth  Congress  of  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet 
Union  in  1956  to  describe  the  rule  of  Joseph  V.  Stalin,  during 
which  the  Soviet  people  were  compelled  to  deify  the  dictator. 
Other  communist  leaders,  particularly  Albania's  Enver  Hox- 
ha,  followed  Stalin's  example  and  established  a  cult  of  person- 
ality around  themselves. 

democratic  centralism — A  Leninist  doctrine  requiring  discussion 
of  issues  until  a  decision  is  reached  by  the  party.  After  a  deci- 
sion is  made,  discussion  concerns  only  planning  and  execution. 
This  method  of  decision  making  directed  lower  bodies  uncon- 
ditionally to  implement  the  decisions  of  higher  bodies. 

European  Community  (EC) — The  EC  comprises  three  commu- 
nities: the  European  Coal  and  Steel  Community  (ECSC),  the 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC,  also  known  as  the 
Common  Market),  and  the  European  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
munity (Euratom).  Each  community  is  a  legally  distinct  body, 
but  since  1967  they  have  shared  common  governing  institu- 
tions. The  EC  forms  more  than  a  framework  for  free  trade  and 
economic  cooperation:  the  signatories  to  the  treaties  govern- 
ing the  communities  have  agreed  in  principle  to  integrate  their 
economies  and  ultimately  to  form  a  political  union.  Belgium, 
France,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands,  and  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (then  West  Germany)  are  charter  mem- 
bers of  the  EC.  Britain,  Denmark,  and  Ireland  joined  on  Janu- 
ary 1,  1973;  Greece  became  a  member  on  January  1,  1981; 
and  Portugal  and  Spain  entered  on  January  1,  1986.  In  late 
1991,  Czechoslovakia,  Hungary  and  Poland  applied  for  mem- 
bership. 

European  Currency  Unit  (ECU)— Instituted  in  1979,  the  ECU  is  the 
unit  of  account  of  the  EC  (q.  v.).  The  value  of  the  ECU  is  deter- 
mined by  the  value  of  a  basket  that  includes  the  currencies  of 


264 


Glossary 


all  EC  member  states.  In  establishing  the  value  of  the  basket, 
each  member's  currency  receives  a  share  that  reflects  the  rela- 
tive strength  and  importance  of  the  member's  economy.  In  1987 
one  ECU  was  equivalent  to  about  one  United  States  dollar. 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC) — See  European  Com- 
munity. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits, 
compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of 
capital).  Only  domestic  production  is  included,  not  income  aris- 
ing from  investments  and  possessions  owned  abroad,  hence  the 
use  of  the  word  domestic  to  distinguish  GDP  from-  gross  nation- 
al product  (GNP— q.v.).  Real  GDP  is  the  value  of  GDP  when 
inflation  has  been  taken  into  account. 

glasnost' — Public  discussion  of  issues;  accessibility  of  information 
so  that  the  public  can  become  familiar  with  it  and  discuss  it. 
The  policy  in  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  mid-  to  late  1980's  of 
using  the  media  to  make  information  available  on  some  con- 
troversial issues,  in  order  to  provoke  public  discussion,  challenge 
government  and  party  bureaucrats,  and  mobilize  greater  sup- 
port for  the  policy  of  perestroika  (q.v.). 

GNP — (gross  national  product) — GDP  (q.v.)  plus  the  net  income 
or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  foreign  countries.  GNP 
is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  output  of  goods  and  serv- 
ices by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated  at  market  prices,  which 
include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP  is  often  calculated 
at  a  factor  cost,  removing  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 

Helsinki  Accords — Signed  in  August  by  all  the  countries  of  Eu- 
rope (except  Albania)  plus  Canada  and  the  United  States  at 
the  conclusion  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Conference  on  Secu- 
rity and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  Helsinki  Accords  endorsed 
general  principles  of  international  behavior  and  measures  to 
enhance  security  and  addressed  selected  economic,  environ- 
mental, and  humanitarian  issues.  In  essence,  the  Helsinki 
Accords  confirmed  existing,  post- World  War  II  national  bound- 
aries and  obligated  signatories  to  respect  basic  principles  of  hu- 
man rights.  Helsinki  Watch  groups  were  formed  in  1976  to 
monitor  compliance.  The  term  Helsinki  Accords  is  the  short 
form  for  the  Final  Act  of  the  Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  and  is  also  known  as  the  Final  Act. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 


265 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  has  regulatory  surveillance, 
and  financial  functions  that  apply  to  its  more  than  1 50  mem- 
ber countries  and  is  responsible  for  stabilizing  international  ex- 
change rates  and  payments.  Its  main  function  is  to  provide  loans 
to  its  members  (including  industrialized  and  developing  coun- 
tries) when  they  experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties. 
These  loans  frequently  have  conditions  that  require  substan- 
tial internal  economic  adjustments  by  recipients,  most  of  which 
are  developing  countries.  Albania  joined  the  IMF  in  October 
1991. 

janissaries — Soldiers,  usually  of  non-Turkish  origin,  who  belonged 
to  an  elite  infantry  corps  of  the  Ottoman  army.  Formed  a  self- 
regulating  guild,  administered  by  a  council  of  elected  unit  com- 
manders. From  the  Turkish  yenigeri;  literally,  new  troops. 

Kosovo — A  province  of  the  Serbian  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  that 
shares  a  border  with  Albania  and  has  a  population  that  is  about 
90  percent  Albanian.  Serbian  nationalists  fiercely  resist  Alba- 
nian control  of  Kosovo,  citing  Kosovo's  history  as  the  center 
of  a  medieval  Serbian  Kingdom  that  ended  in  a  defeat  by  the 
Ottoman  Turks  at  the  Battle  of  Kosovo  Polje  in  1389.  Resi- 
dents of  Kosovo  are  known  as  Kosovars. 

lek  (L) — Albanian  national  currency  unit  consisting  of  100  qin- 
tars.  In  early  1991,  the  official  exchange  rate  was  L6.75  to 
US$1;  in  September  1991,  it  was  L25  =  US$1;  and  in  March 
1993,  the  exchange  rate  was  LI 09. 62  =  US$1. 

machine  tractor  stations — State  organizations  that  owned  the  major 
equipment  needed  by  farmers  and  obtained  the  agricultural 
products  from  collectivized  farms.  First  developed  in  the  Soviet 
Union  and  adopted  by  Albania  during  the  regime  of  Enver 
Hoxha. 

Marxism- Leninism/Marxist- Leninist — The  ideology  of  commu- 
nism, developed  by  Karl  Marx  and  refined  and  adapted  to  so- 
cial and  economic  conditions  in  Russia  by  Lenin,  which  guid- 
ed the  communist  parties  of  many  countries  including  Albania 
and  the  Soviet  Union.  Marx  talked  of  the  establishment  of  the 
dictatorship  of  the  proletariat  after  the  overthrow  of  the  bour- 
geoisie as  a  transitional  socialist  phase  before  the  achievement 
of  communism.  Lenin  added  the  idea  of  a  communist  party 
as  the  vanguard  or  leading  force  in  promoting  the  proletarian 
revolution  and  building  communism.  Stalin  and  subsequent 
East  European  leaders,  including  Enver  Hoxha,  contributed 
their  own  interpretations  of  the  ideology. 

most-favored-nation  status — Under  the  provisions  of  the  General 
Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT),  when  one  country 


266 


Glossary 


accords  another  most-favored-nation  status  it  agrees  to  extend 
to  that  country  the  same  trade  concessions,  e.g.,  lower  tariffs 
or  reduced  nontariff  barriers,  which  it  grants  to  any  other  recip- 
ients having  most-favored-nation  status.  In  June  1992,  Albania 
received  most-favored-nation  status  from  the  United  States. 

net  material  product — The  official  measure  of  the  value  of  goods 
and  services  produced  in  Albania,  and  in  other  countries  hav- 
ing a  planned  economy,  during  a  given  period,  usually  a  year. 
It  approximates  the  term  gross  national  product  (GNP — q.  v. ) 
used  by  economists  in  the  United  States  and  in  other  coun- 
tries having  a  market  economy.  The  measure,  developed  in 
the  Soviet  Union,  was  based  on  constant  prices,  which  do  not 
fully  account  for  inflation,  and  excluded  depreciation. 

Ottoman  Empire — Formed  in  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  cen- 
turies when  Osman  I,  a  Muslim  prince,  and  his  successors, 
known  in  the  West  as  Ottomans,  took  over  the  Byzantine  ter- 
ritories of  western  Anatolia  and  southeastern  Europe  and  con- 
quered the  eastern  Anatolian  Turkmen  principalities.  The 
Ottoman  Empire  disintegrated  at  the  end  of  World  War  I;  the 
center  was  reorganized  as  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  and  the  out- 
lying provinces  became  separate  states. 

pasha — Title  of  honor  held  by  members  of  the  Muslim  ruling  class 
in  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

perestroika — Literally,  restructuring.  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev's  cam- 
paign in  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  mid-  to  late  1980s  to  revital- 
ize the  economy,  party,  and  society  by  adjusting  economic, 
political,  and  social  mechanisms.  Announced  at  the  Twenty- 
Seventh  Party  Congress  in  August  1986. 

Shia  (from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali) — A  member  of  the  smaller 
of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Shia  supported  the 
claims  of  Ali  and  his  line  to  presumptive  right  to  the  caliphate 
and  leadership  of  the  Muslim  community,  and  on  this  issue 
they  divided  from  the  Sunni  (q.  v.)  in  the  first  great  schism  with- 
in Islam.  In  1944,  when  the  communists  assumed  power  in 
Albania,  about  25  percent  of  the  country's  Muslims  belonged 
to  an  offshoot  of  the  Shia  branch  known  as  Bektashi  (q.v.). 

Stalinism/Stalinist — The  authoritarian  practices,  including  mass 
terror,  and  bureaucratic  applications  of  the  principles  of 
Marxism- Leninism  (q.  v. )  in  the  Soviet  Union  under  Joseph 
V.  Stalin  and  in  East  European  communist  countries. 

Sublime  Porte  (or  Porte) — The  palace  entrance  that  provided  ac- 
cess to  the  chief  minister  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  who  represent- 
ed the  government  and  the  sultan  (q.v.).  Term  came  to  mean 
the  Ottoman  government. 


267 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 

sultan — The  supreme  ruler  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Officially  called 
the  padishah  (Persian  for  high  king  or  emperor),  the  sultan  was 
at  the  apex  of  the  empire's  political,  military,  judicial,  social, 
and  religious  hierarchy. 

Sunni  (from  Sunna,  meaning  "custom,"  having  connotations  of 
orthodoxy  in  theory  and  practice) — A  member  of  the  larger 
of  the  two  great  divisions  within  Islam.  The  Sunnis  supported 
the  traditional  (consensual)  method  of  election  to  the  caliphate 
and  accepted  the  Umayyad  line.  On  this  issue,  they  divided 
from  the  Shia  (q.v.)  in  the  first  great  schism  within  Islam.  In 
1944,  when  the  communists  assumed  power  in  Albania,  about 
75  percent  of  the  country's  Muslims  were  Sunnis. 

Titoist — A  follower  of  the  political,  economic,  and  social  policies 
associated  with  Josip  Broz  Tito,  Yugoslav  prime  minister  from 
1943  and  later  president  until  his  death  in  1980,  whose  nation- 
alistic policies  and  practices  were  independent  of  and  often  in 
opposition  to  those  of  the  Soviet  Union. 

Treaty  of  San  Stefano — A  treaty  signed  by  Russia  and  the  Otto- 
man Empire  on  March  3,  1878,  concluding  the  Russo-Turkish 
War  of  1877-78.  If  implemented,  would  have  greatiy  reduced 
Ottoman  holdings  in  Europe  and  created  a  large,  independent 
Bulgarian  state  under  Russian  protection.  Assigned  Albanian- 
populated  lands  to  Serbia,  Montenegro,  and  Bulgaria.  Substan- 
tially revised  at  Congress  of  Berlin,  after  strong  opposition  from 
Great  Britain  and  Austria-Hungary. 

Uniate  Church — Any  Eastern  Christian  church  that  recognizes  the 
supremacy  of  the  pope  but  preserves  the  Eastern  Rite.  Mem- 
bers of  the  Albanian  Uniate  Church  are  concentrated  in  Sicily 
and  southern  Italy,  and  are  descendants  of  Orthodox  Albani- 
ans who  fled  the  Ottoman  invasions,  particularly  after  the  death 
of  Skanderbeg  in  1468. 

Warsaw  Treaty  Organization — Formal  name  for  Warsaw  Pact. 
Political-military  alliance  founded  by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1955 
as  a  counterweight  to  the  North  Adantic  Treaty  Organization. 
Albania,  an  original  member,  stopped  participating  in  War- 
saw Pact  activities  in  1962  and  withdrew  in  1968.  Members 
in  1991  included  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia,  East  Germany, 
Hungary,  Poland,  Romania,  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Before  it 
was  formally  dissolved  in  April  1991,  the  Warsaw  Pact  served 
as  the  Soviet  Union's  primary  mechanism  for  keeping  politi- 
cal and  military  control  over  Eastern  Europe. 

World  Bank — Name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four  affiliated 
international  institutions  that  provide  advice  on  long-term  fi- 
nance and  policy  issues  to  developing  countries:  the  International 


268 


Glossary 


Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  Inter- 
national Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International 
Finance  Corporation  (IFC),  and  the  Multilateral  Investment 
Guarantee  Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945, 
has  the  primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  coun- 
tries for  productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan 
fund  administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960 
to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much 
easier  terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed 
countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD 
hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  MIGA,  which  began 
operating  in  June  1988,  insures  private  foreign  investment  in 
developing  countries  against  such  non-commercial  risks  as  ex- 
propriation, civil  strife,  and  inconvertibility.  The  four  institu- 
tions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that 
subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 

Young  Turks — A  Turkish  revolutionary  nationalist  reform  party, 
officially  known  as  the  Committee  of  Union  and  Progress 
(CUP),  whose  leaders  led  a  rebellion  against  the  Ottoman  sul- 
tan and  effectively  ruled  the  Ottoman  Empire  from  1 908  until 
shortly  before  World  War  I. 

Yugoslavia — Established  in  1918  as  the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs, 
Croats,  and  Slovenes.  The  kingdom  included  the  territory  of 
present-day  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  Macedonia,  Montenegro, 
Serbia,  Croatia,  and  Slovenia.  Between  1929  and  1945,  the 
country  was  called  the  kingdom  of  Yugoslavia  (land  of  the  South 
Slavs).  In  1945  Yugoslavia  became  a  federation  of  six  repub- 
lics under  the  leadership  of  Josip  Broz  Tito.  In  1991  Yugosla- 
via broke  apart  because  of  long-standing  internal  disputes 
among  its  republics  and  weak  central  government.  The  seces- 
sion of  Croatia  and  Slovenia  in  mid- 1991  led  to  a  bloody  war 
between  Serbia  and  Croatia.  In  the  fall  of  1991,  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina  and  Macedonia  also  seceded  from  the  federation, 
leaving  Serbia  (with  its  provinces,  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina)  and 
Montenegro  as  the  constituent  parts  of  the  federation.  Under 
the  leadership  of  President  Slobodan  Milosevic,  however,  Serbia 
retained  substantial  territorial  claims  in  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina and  Croatia  at  the  beginning  of  1992. 


269 


Index 


Abdul  Hamid  II  (sultan),  19,  20 
abortion,  82,  96 
Ada  Air,  152 

ADP.  See  Albanian  Democratic  Party 
Agip,  143 

Agrarian  Party,  188;  in  coalition  govern- 
ment, 190 

Agrarian  Reform  Law  (1945),  40,  85, 
107,  173 

agricultural:  cooperatives,  117;  develop- 
ment, 30;  organization,  134-36;  re- 
form, 40,  107-8,  134 

agricultural  production,  112;  under  five- 
year  plans,  109,  110,  115;  impact  of 
drought  on,  115;  under  privatization, 
136;  shortfalls,  137 

agricultural  products  (see  also  under  in- 
dividual crops):  fruit,  103;  marketing 
structure  for,  136-37;  tree  crops,  133; 
vegetables,  103 

agriculture  (see  also  under  farms),  133-40; 
collectivization  in,  44,  49,  78,  80,  108, 
112,  113,  115,  133;  control  of,  110;  de- 
centralized, 116;  fertilizers  for,  138; 
feudal,  106;  importance  of,  103;  mech- 
anization of,  138;  neglect  of,  107;  as 
percentage  of  net  material  product, 
103;  pesticides  for,  139;  privatization 
in,  xxxvi,  118,  136;  seeds  for,  139;  sub- 
sistence, 26,  106;  women  in,  82,  132; 
work  force  in,  103,  130 

Ahmeti,  Vilson,  xxxvi 

air  force,  221-22;  aircraft  of,  221-22; 
bases,  221;  creation  of,  221;  materiel, 
222;  missions  of,  221;  personnel 
strength  of,  221 

airports,  152;  privatization  of,  120 

air  transportation,  152 

Albania,  People's  Socialist  Republic  of, 
174 

Academy  of  Sciences,  45 
Albanian  Commercial  Bank,  123 
Albanian  Communist  Party  (see  also  Al- 
banian Party  of  Labor;  Socialist  Party 
of  Albania),  172,  175,  203;  established, 
35;  pro-Yugoslav  faction  in,  210;  resis- 
tance by,  to  Italian  occupation,  208-9; 
women  in,  80 


Albanian  Communist  Party  Secretariat,  176 

Albanian  Democratic  Party  (ADP),  xxxv; 
activities  of,  187;  call  for  reforms,  218, 
226;  in  coalition  government,  190;  in 
elections  of  1991,  188;  formed,  186, 
187;  membership  of,  187 

Albanian  Democratic  Party  government, 
xxxvi,  xxxvii,  118 

Albanian  language,  70;  alphabet  for,  19, 
20,  71,  88;  derivation  of,  71;  dialects 
of,  71;  influences  on,  71;  as  language 
of  education,  19;  legalized,  20;  pro- 
scribed, 19,  71,  87-88 

Albanian  National  Bank:  founded,  30 

Albanian  Orthodox  Church,  27,  75;  clergy 
of,  purged,  85;  number  members  of,  82 

Albanian  Party  of  Labor  (APL)  (see  also 
Albanian  Communist  Party;  Socialist 
Party  of  Albania),  xxxv,  174,  175;  in 
armed  forces,  217;  economic  policies  of, 
104;  membership  in,  217 

Albanians,  ethnic,  214-15;  arrival  of,  in 
Balkans,  8;  deported  from  Greece, 
xxxviii;  emigration  by,  xxxv,  12;  in 
Kosovo,  22,  58,  69-70,  194,  206, 
214-15;  in  Macedonia,  xxxvii,  22,  69, 
206;  in  Montenegro,  69,  206;  percent- 
tage  of,  in  population,  66;  resistance  by, 
to  Ottoman  rule,  10,  20 

Alfonso  I  (king),  12 

Algeria:  trade  with,  164 

Alia,  Ramiz,  xxxv,  47;  attempts  to  dis- 
credit, 190;  background,  209;  economy 
under,  115;  meeting  of,  with  students, 
185;  military  career  of,  216;  opposition 
of  Sigurimi  to,  228;  as  president,  188; 
resignation  of,  191;  as  successor  to 
Hoxha,  52,  174;  visit  of,  to  United  Na- 
tions, 199-200 

Alia  government,  174-75;  armed  forces 
under,  204;  reforms  under,  171,  190, 
192,  204,  213,  228-29;  repression  un- 
der, 228-29 

Ali  Pasha  of  Tepelene,  15;  assassinated, 
15 

All-Union  Lenin  Communist  Youth  League 

(Komsomol),  180 
American  Agricultural  School,  90 


271 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


American  Junior  Red  Cross:  schools  run 
by,  90 

American   Red   Cross:   hospitals  and 

schools  run  by,  27 
American  Vocational  School,  90 
Amnesty  International,  184,  228 
Anti-Fascist  Council  of  National  Libera- 
tion, 36 

APL.  See  Albanian  Party  of  Labor 

armed  forces,  219-23,  230;  administra- 
tive divisions  of,  216;  Chinese  influence 
on,  220;  command  structure  of,  216; 
conscription  in,  207,  219;  under  con- 
stitution of  1976,  216;  development  of, 
204-6;  in  Greek  civil  war,  209-10; 
materiel  of,  209;  medical  service  of, 
217;  missions  of,  219;  organization  of, 
219;  origins  of,  203;  personnel  strength 
of,  207,  219;  political  control  in, 
217-19;  political  indoctrination,  212, 
217;  political  officers  in,  217;  problems 
in,  214;  purges  of,  218;  ranks  of,  218; 
ranks  of,  abolished,  49,  217-18;  re- 
forms of,  49,  189,  204,  218;  Soviet  in- 
fluence on,  220;  training,  209;  uniforms 
of,  218;  uniforms,  abolished,  217-18; 
Yugoslavia's  influence  over,  209;  un- 
der Zogu,  207 

army  (People's  Army),  220-21;  assistance 
for,  203;  commander  in  chief,  215-16; 
foreign  influences  in,  31;  materiel, 
220-21;  number  of  troops  in,  203,  220; 
organization  of,  220;  pressure  from,  for 
reform,  182;  problems  in,  220-21; 
Sigurimi  in,  234 

Association  of  Former  Political  Prisoners, 
231 

austerity  program,  49 
Austria-Hungary:  occupation  by,  23 
autarky,  5%,  114-18;  implemented,  114 
Auxiliary  Police,  237-38;  mission  of,  238; 

service  in,  237 
Avars:  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8 

balance  of  payments,  160,  162 
balance  of  trade,  162 
Balkan  Confederation  of  Communist  Par- 
ties, 34 

Balkan  Foreign  Ministers  Conference, 

195,  196,  213 
Balkan  War,  First  (1912-13),  4,  16,  21, 

206 


Balkan  War,  Second  (1913),  4,  206 
Balli  Kombetar  (National  Union),  35 
Balluku,  Beqir,  218 
Balsha  family,  10 

Bank  for  Agricultural  Development,  123- 
24 

banking  system,  122-24;  nationalization 
of,  78;  reform  of,  123;  two-tiered,  123 

barbarians,  3;  invasions  by,  7-8 

Bashkimi,  186 

Beqeja,  Hamit,  183 

Berisha,  Sali,  187;  as  president,  xxxvi- 
xxxvii,  191 

beys,  76,  84;  power  of,  14-15;  revolts  by, 
9 

birth  control,  96 
Bismarck,  Otto  von,  18 
Bitola:  under  Ottoman  rule,  16 
Bjeshket  e  Namuna.  See  North  Albanian 
Alps 

black  market,  120,  123,  158,  160 
border  problems:  with  Greece,  18;  with 

Yugoslavia,  215 
borders,  57-59;  established,  58-59 
Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  xxxvii 
Britain:  materiel  from,  33;  military  train- 
ing provided  by,  207;  plans  of,  to  over- 
throw communists,  43-44;  relations 
with,  43-44,  192 
budget  deficit,  122,  124;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  122;  reduced, 
xxxvi 
Bufi,  Ylli,  190 

Bufi  government,  190;  collapse  of,  xxxv 

Bulatovic,  Momir,  xxviii 

Bulgaria,  214;  emigration  to,  16;  lands 
ceded  to,  17;  occupation  by,  23;  rela- 
tions with,  xxxviii,  198;  trade  with, 
162,  163 

Bulgarians:  geographic  distribution  of,  69 
Bulgars,  205;  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8 
Bune  River,  59,  63 
bunkers,  115 

bureaucracy:  reform  of,  49 
Bushati,  Ibrahim,  15 
Bushati,  Kara  Mahmud,  15 
Bushati,  Mustafa  Pasha,  15,  16 
Bushati  family,  15 
Byzantine  Empire,  205 
Byzantines,  8 

Cami,  Foto,  186 


272 


Index 


Qarcani,  Adil,  174,  179,  196 

Catholic  Church,  Roman:  clergy  purged, 

86;  as  mediator,  26 
Catholics,  Roman:  ethnic  distribution  of, 

75;  number  of,  82 
Ceau§escu,  Nicolae,  198 
censorship,  182 

Central  Committee,  176;  plenums  of, 
116,  117,  177,  183,  185,  186;  privileges 
of,  79;  reforms  by,  116-17 

Qermenike,  60 

Charles  I  of  Anjou,  9 

chemical  industry,  146-47;  production, 
147 

Chevron,  143 

children:  custody  of,  80 

China,  People's  Republic  of:  dependence 
on,  111-14,  203,  210,  211;  economic 
assistance  from,  xxxv,  4,  47,  48,  104, 
111,  193;  military  assistance  from, 
203-4,  211,  212,  220;  reduction  of  aid 
from,  114,  156,  193-94,  213;  relations 
of,  with  Soviet  Union,  47;  relations 
with,  46-49,  50,  105,  193,  199;  tech- 
nical assistance  from,  48;  trade  with, 
114 

Christianity  (see  also  under  individual  denomi- 
nations), 82-84;  arrival  of,  7;  introduc- 
tion of,  82;  schism  in,  82;  secret  practice 
of,  13,  84-85,  86-87 

chromite,  31,  103,  140,  144-46;  export 
of,  144-46,  164;  income  from,  114, 
115;  problems  with,  144;  production, 
144 

civil  war,  33,  36 

clans,  14,  57,  75;  blood  feuds  of,  31,  68, 
75,  76;  under  communists,  67;  repres- 
sion of,  50 

clergy:  under  communist  rule,  78;  living 
conditions  of,  77;  purged,  85-86 

climate,  64-65,  103;  precipitation,  65; 
regions,  65;  temperature,  65;  weather 
patterns,  64-65 

Clitus,  5 

clothing:  prices  of,  129;  subsidies  for,  129 
coal,  140;  deposits,  142;  mines,  143 
Code  of  Lek,  14,  76 
Cold  War,  209 

Comecon.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance 

Cominform.  See  Communist  Information 
Bureau 

Comintern.  See  Communist  International 


Committee  for  the  Salvation  of  Albania: 
formed,  35 

Committee  of  Union  and  Progress.  See 
Young  Turks 

communications,  150,  151,  155;  privati- 
zation in,  120;  work  force  in,  130 

Communist  Information  Bureau  (Comin- 
form): Albania  excluded  from,  42;  Yu- 
goslavia expelled  from,  40,  109,  192, 
210 

Communist  International  (Comintern), 
34 

communist  party.  See  Albanian  Commu- 
nist Party;  Albanian  Party  of  Labor; 
Socialist  Party  of  Albania 

communist  party  congresses,  42,  44,  48, 
52,  176,  190,  193;  average  age  in,  176; 
women  in,  176 

Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union 
(CPSU):  party  congresses  of,  48 

Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia,  34 

communists,  34-36;  acquisition  of  pow- 
er by,  4;  clans  under,  67;  in  coalition 
government,  190;  consolidation  of  pow- 
er by,  38-40,  209;  democratic  central- 
ism under,  176;  economy  under,  39, 
122;  education  under,  91-94;  organi- 
zation of,  175-76;  plans  to  overthrow, 
43-44;  power  shift  under,  39;  purges 
by,  38;  reforms  by,  38-40;  reforms  of, 
176-77;  social  structure  under,  77-82; 
takeover  of  government  by,  36-38 

Comnenus,  Alexius  I,  8 

Comnenus,  Michael,  9 

Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe,  51;  desire  to  join,  184,  229; 
membership  in,  214 

Congress  of  Berlin:  Prizren  League  memo- 
randum to,  18 

Constantine  the  Great,  7 

constitution  of  1946:  adopted,  39;  divorce 
under,  80;  marriage  under,  80 

constitution  of  1976,  173;  adopted,  52; 
armed  forces  under,  216;  communist 
party  under,  176;  human  rights  under, 
228 

constitution,  draft  interim,  186-87 
construction,  149-50;  housing,  96,  149, 

150;  work  force  in,  130 
consumer  cooperatives,  107 
consumer  goods:  durable,  129;  imports 

of,  165;  lack  of,  127-28,  156;  prices  of, 

129 


273 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


consumption,  128 

Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  Treaty 
(1990),  214 

copper,  32,  140,  146;  export  of,  164;  in- 
come from,  114 

corruption:  in  customs,  160;  in  secret 
police,  229 

Costa  Rica:  trade  with,  164 

Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(Comecon):  boycott  of,  194;  division  of 
labor  of,  110;  membership  in,  44,  192, 
197 

Council  of  Ministers,  178-79;  economic 
decision  makers  in,  118-20;  head  of, 
179;  members  of,  178;  mission  of, 
178-79,  189 

courts,  179;  military,  217 

CPSU.  See  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet 
Union 

Craxi,  Bettino,  196 

crime,  232-33 

Croatia:  relations  with,  xxxviii 

Croats:  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8 

Cuba:  trade  with,  163 

Cultural  and  Ideological  Revolution, 
49-50,  112,  173;  inefficiency  of,  113; 
religion  under,  86;  resistance  to,  113; 
women  under,  132 

currency,  xxxvi,  124;  devaluation  of,  124; 
exchange,  124;  exchange  rate,  124; 
problems  with,  104;  reform,  108,  118; 
shortage  of  foreign,  197;  speculation  in, 
122-23;  unbacked,  124 

current  accounts:  deficit,  162;  as  percen- 
tage of  gross  domestic  product,  162 

Czechoslovakia:  relations  with,  198;  So- 
viet invasion  of,  193,  212,  224;  trade 
agreement  with,  44;  trade  with,  162, 
163 


debt:  external,  160 

Decree  on  Religious  Communities  (1949), 
85 

Defense  Council,  216 
defense  organization,  215-27 
defense  spending:  reductions  in,  227 
Democratic  Front,  39,  180 
Denimex,  142 

de-Stalinization:  opposition  to,  46,  193, 
210 

developing  countries:  trade  with,  164 


devshirme,  12 
diet,  96,  129 
Dimitrov,  Georgi,  41 
Diocletian,  7 

Directorate  of  Criminal  Police,  234 
Directorate  of  Forces  for  the  Restoration 

of  Order,  234 
Directorate  of  Law  and  Order,  234 
Directorate  of  Prison  Administration, 

233,  234 

Directorate  of  State  Security  (Drejtorija 
e  Sigurimit  te  Shtetit — Sigurimi),  184, 
227,  232,  234-36;  activities  of,  235; 
bribes  demanded  by,  229;  dissolved, 
190,  204,  232,  234;  mission  of,  232, 
235;  personnel  in,  234,  235;  opposition 
of,  to  Alia,  228;  organization  of,  232, 
235;  People's  Defense  Division,  234; 
pressure  from,  for  reform,  182 

divorce,  76;  laws  regulating,  80;  rate,  80 

Djilas,  Milovan,  42 

drainage,  63-64;  projects,  103 

Drejtorija  e  Sigurimit  te  Shtetit.  See  Direc- 
torate of  State  Security 

Drini  Engineering  Works,  147 

Drini  i  Bardhe  River,  63 

Drini  i  Zi,  63 

Drin  River,  64 

drought,  115,  117,  143,  183 

drug  trafficking,  233 

Durres:  naval  base,  222;  port  of,  152, 
230;  shipyards,  147;  urban  dwellers  in, 
74 

Dusan,  Stefan,  9 


East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 
Republic 

East-West  Seminar  on  Military  Doc- 
trines, 219 
Ecology  Party,  188 

economic:  activity,  116;  development, 
111;  performance,  105-18;  planning 
{see  alse  under  individual  five-year  plans), 
108;  policy,  105-18;  statistics,  105 
economic  austerity  program,  111 
economic  enterprises,  121-22;  under 
communists,  121;  management  of,  121; 
privatization  of,  118;  under  recovery 
program,  122;  steering  councils  for, 
121-22 

Economic  Planning  Commission,  39,  108 


274 


Index 


economic  reform,  xxxv,  112,  116;  under 
coalition  government,  118;  program 
for,  122;  prospects  for,  166-67; 
resistance  to,  117;  "shock  therapy" 
program  for,  xxxvi 
economic  system,  1 18-26;  changes  in,  175 
economic  system,  Stalinist,  xxxv,  103, 
107-8;  adjustments  to,  112;  collapse 
of,  104,  105,  115,  118;  decentralized, 
112;  implemented,  44,  109;  reforms  of, 
116 

economy:  centralized,  xxxv,  173;  under 
communists,  39;  control  over,  by  Ita- 
ly, 105;  control  over,  by  Yugoslavia, 
41-42;  decentralized,  117,  175;  impact 
of  China  on,  114;  impact  of  Soviet 
Union  on,  49;  planned,  39;  reform  of, 
49,  104,  171;  under  Zog,  32 

education  {see  also  schools),  87-94;  adult, 
93;  under  communists,  45,  91-94; 
elementary,  92;  languages  for,  19,  87- 
88;  literacy,  92;  objectives  of,  91-92; 
postsecondary,  90-91;  program  of,  92- 
93;  rates  of,  27;  reform  of,  49;  re- 
strictions on,  173;  secondary,  92,  93; 
subsidies  for,  129;  women  working  in, 
132;  work  force  in,  130 

Education  Reform  Law  (1946),  92 

education  system:  development  of,  90; 
elementary,  88;  Italian  control  of,  91; 
reorganization  of,  90,  93 

Egypt:  emigration  to,  12,  16;  trade  with, 
164 

Eibasan,  74 

Elbasan  Steel  Combine,  146,  150 
elections:  of  1991,  xxxv,  177,  186,  188; 

of  1992,  xxxvi 
electoral  system,  178;  reform  of,  185 
electric  power:  blackouts,  144;  capacity, 
143;  development  of,  103,  116;  export 
of,  164;  under  five-year  plans,  109, 
116;  generation,  103,  115,  142,  143;  in- 
come from,  114;  privatization  of,  120; 
in  rural  areas,  144;  shortages  of,  117; 
stations,  113;  transmission,  143 
elite  class:  living  conditions  of,  77 
emigration:  destinations  for,  xxxv,  12,  16, 
117,  187,  190-91;  to  escape  Ottoman 
empire,  16;  to  escape  revolution  of 
1991,  103,  117,  187, 190-91, 229, 233 
employment  reform,  112 
energy  resources,  140-46 
engineering,  147 


Enver  Hoxha  Auto  and  Tractor  Plant, 
147 

Enver  Hoxha  University,  45;  founded,  92 
environmental  problems,  150 
Epirus,  Despotate  of,  9 
Epirus,  Northern,  213;  dispute  over, 
xxxviii 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 

groups),  66-68 
Europe:  integration  with,  xxxvii;  relations 

with,  43-44;  trade  with,  114 
Europe,  Eastern:  assistance  from,  111; 

exports  to,  144;  revolutions  of  1989  in, 

185,  229 

European  Community  (EC),  121,  140, 
167;  assistance  from,  166 

European  Currency  Unit,  124 

Eximbank.  See  Export-Import  Bank  of  the 
United  States 

Export-Import  Bank  of  the  United  States 
(Eximbank),  164 

exports  {see  also  under  individual  products): 
of  agricultural  products,  133;  decline 
in,  162;  of  electric  power,  143;  increase 
in,  xxxvi,  114;  to  West,  114 


families:  authority  in,  76;  importance  of, 
76;  size  of,  75 

farms,  collective,  108,  113,  134 

farms,  private:  average  size  of,  135 

farms,  state,  134;  food  processing  under, 
149;  organization  of,  135-36;  work 
force  on,  135-36 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  See  Ger- 
many, Federal  Republic  of 

Finland:  assistance  from,  234 

Fischer,  Oskar,  198 

fishing,  139-40 

Fishta,  Gjergj,  27 

five-year  plans:  First  (1951-55),  44, 
109-10;  Second  (1956-60),  110;  Third 
(1961-64),  48,  74,  1 1 1 ;  Fourth  (1966- 
70),  113;  Fifth  (1971-75),  114;  Seventh 
(1981-85),  115;  Eighth  (1986-90), 
116,  137 

flag,  9 

food:  aid,  167;  distribution  system,  158; 
household  spending  on,  133;  as  percent- 
age of  trade,  158;  production,  115; 
shortages,  156,  158,  167,  175 

food  processing,  148-49;  privatization  in, 


275 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


xxxvi,  148;  production,  148-49;  qual- 
ity of,  148;  workers  in,  148 

foreign  assistance,  166;  from  China,  xxxv, 
4,  47,  48,  104,  111,  193,  203-4,  211, 
212,  220;  European  Community,  166; 
from  Finland,  234;  from  Germany,  96, 
197;  from  Greece,  166;  humanitarian, 
104;  from  Italy,  94,  96,  104,  166,  234; 
problems  in  pursuing,  197-98;  reliance 
on,  57;  from  Romania,  234;  from  the 
Soviet  Union,  xxxv,  4,  45,  46,  47,  104, 
109,  110,  111,  203,  210,  220,  224;  from 
Switzerland,  96;  from  Turkey,  166; 
from  the  United  States,  96,  108,  166; 
volume  of,  166;  from  Yugoslavia,  xxxv, 
4,  33,  41,  104,  203,  212 
foreign  companies:  activities  of,  165 
foreign  debt:  increase  in,  104,  117 
foreign  investment:  in  energy,  142;  in  in- 
dustry, 104 
foreign  policy,  191-200;  under  Berisha, 

xxxvii;  under  Hoxha,  191-92,  194 
foreign  relations:  with  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina,  xxxvii;  with  Britain,  43-44, 
192;  with  Bulgaria,  xxxviii,  198;  with 
China,  46-49,  50,  105,  193,  199;  with 
Croatia,  xxxviii;  with  Czechoslovakia, 
198;  with  East  Germany,  198;  econom- 
ic, 159-67;  with  Greece,  xxxviii,  50, 
175,  193,  194-95,  196,  213;  with  Ita- 
ly, xxxviii,  175,  194-95,  196-97;  with 
Macedonia,  xxxvii;  with  Romania, 
xxxviii,  198,  212;  with  Slovenia, 
xxxviii;  with  the  Soviet  Union,  44-46, 
198,   199,  211,  214;  with  Turkey, 

xxxvii,  175,  194,  196,  213;  with  the 
United  States,  43-44,  192,  198-99, 
214;  with  the  West,  192,  195;  with 
West  Germany,  197;  with  Yugoslavia, 
50,  175,  192,  193,  195,  213 

forestry:  privatization  of,  120 

forests,  139;  destruction  of,  139;  nation- 
alized, 40,  107,  173 

France:  occupation  by,  58;  trade  negoti- 
ations with,  50;  trade  with,  162 

Frasheri,  Abdul,  17;  exiled,  19 

Frasheri,  Mehdi,  32 

Frasheri,  Midhat,  35 

Frasheri,  Nairn,  19 

Frasheri,  Sami,  19 

Frontier  Guards,  204,  232,  233,  236; 
mission  of,  232,  236;  organization  of, 
236 


Garibaldi  International  Brigade,  34 
gas,  natural,  140;  production,  143;  re- 
serves, 142,  143 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
Gegs  (highlanders),  9,  14;  characteristics 
of,  68;  under  Hoxha,  67;  marriage  tra- 
ditions of,  76;  percentage  of,  in  popu- 
lation, 66;  political  power  of,  39; 
religion  of,  75;  tribal  society  of,  77; 
women,  68 
Gendarmerie:  formed,  207;  mission  of, 

207;  organization  of,  207 
Gentius  (king),  6 
Geraldine  Apponyi  (queen),  33 
German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): relations  with,  198;  trade  with, 
163 

Germany:  investment  from,  165;  occupa- 
tion by,  36,  91,  209 

Germany,  Federal  Republic  of  (West 
Germany):  diplomatic  relations  with, 
197;  economic  assistance  from,  96,  197; 
trade  with,  144,  162,  163-64,  197 

Gjoni,  Xhelil,  190 

glasnost',  183 

Glaucius  (king),  5 

Godo,  Sabri,  187 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.,  xxxv,  190 

Goths:  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8 

government:  apparatus,  178-79;  borrow- 
ing, 30;  interwar,  28;  local,  125; 
revenues,  124-25;  spending,  124-25, 
226;  trade  monopoly,  159 

government,  coalition  (1991-92),  118, 
177,  189-91;  military  under,  226-27 

Government  Party,  28 

Great  Powers:  partition  by,  21,  23,  192, 
206-7;  as  protectors,  21,  23 

Greece,  214;  Albanians  deported  from, 
xxxviii;  assistance  from,  166;  attempts 
by,  to  appropriate  land,  16,  37,  47, 
207;  border  with,  58,  211;  border 
problems  with,  18;  civil  war  in,  43,  210; 
economic  relations  with,  195;  emigra- 
tion to,  xxxv,  12,  117,  187,  224,  229; 
ferry  service  to,  196;  investment  from, 
165;  Italian  attempt  to  invade,  33;  oc- 
cupation by,  23,  58,  192;  problems 
with,  211;  relations  with,  xxxviii,  50, 
175,  193,  194-95,  196,  213;  support  by, 
for  revolts,  23;  suppression  of  Albani- 
an culture  by,  19,  20;  trade  agreement 
with,  31 


276 


Index 


Greek  language,  71;  as  language  of  edu- 
cation, 88 

Greeks,  68-69;  internal  exile  of,  69;  as 
percentage  of  population,  68-69;  popu- 
lation of,  68-69,  211;  schools  for,  90 

Grey,  Edward,  21 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  122,  162; 
per  capita,  103;  industry's  share  of, 
140;  military  appropriations,  226 
Gusinje:  armed  resistance  in,  18 
Gypsies:  geographic  distribution  of,  69 


Hamilton  Oil,  143 

health:  improvements  in,  94 

health  care,  94-96;  under  communists, 

45;  inoculation  programs,  94;  subsidies 

for,  129 

health  care  professionals:  number  of,  45, 
94;  training  for,  45;  women  as,  132 
health  facilities,  45;  number  of,  94;  short- 
ages in,  96;  sponsored  by  Red  Cross,  27 
Helsinki  Accords,  194,  229 
Helsinki  Conference,  51 
Higher  Agricultural  Institute,  92 
Higher  Pedagogic  Institute,  92 
Higher  Polytechnic  Institute,  92 
highlanders  {see  also  Gegs),  14,  26;  culture 

of,  74-75;  as  fighters,  205 
housing,  96-98;  construction,  96,  149, 
150;  cost  of,  129;  crowding  in,  96;  de- 
stroyed, 98;  privatization  of,  xxxvi,  120; 
in  rural  areas,  98;  in  urban  areas,  98 
Hoxha,  Enver,  xxxv,  3;  attempted  coup 
against,  193;  background  of,  34,  67,  90, 
208,  209;  as  commander  in  chief, 
215-16;  death  of,  52;  positions  of,  36, 
37;  reaction  of,  to  Khrushchev,  46;  rise 
to  power  by,  4,  39;  succession  to,  51-52, 
174 

Hoxha,  Nexhmije,  174,  180 

Hoxha  government,  xxxv,  173-74;  bru- 
tality of,  3,  171,  227-28;  campaign 
against  religion,  50,  85-87;  economy 
under,  107-8;  foreign  relations  under, 
192;  isolation  under,  xxxv,  4,  38,  50, 
57,  166-67,  171,  213 

human  rights,  184-85,  228;  abuses,  175, 
230;  attempts  to  improve,  184 

Hungary:  trade  agreement  with,  44;  trade 
with,  163 

Huns:  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8 


identification  cards,  237 

Illyrians,  3,  4-7;  conquered,  5;  emigration 

of,  8;  industry  of,  5;  intermarriage  of, 

8;  trade  by,  5 
Illyrian  Wars  (229  B.C.,  219  B.C.),  6 
IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
imports:  from  China,  114;  from  the  West, 

165 

income,  hard-currency:  sources  of,  114 
independence:  declared,  16,  172,  203, 

204,  205;  international  support  for,  21, 

206 

industrial  development:  under  Hoxha, 
107 

industrial  output:  decline  in,  117;  under 
five-year  plans,  109,  110,  113,  114;  per 
capita,  106;  as  percentage  of  national 
income,  106 

industry,  140-50;  foreign  investment  in, 
104;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  140;  inefficiencies  in,  140;  in- 
vestment in,  140;  light,  147-48,  164; 
nationalization  of,  39,  78,  173;  privati- 
zation of,  120;  women  in,  132;  under 
Zog,  32 

inflation,  xxxvi,  117,  124 

infrastructure:  development  of,  106 

intellectuals,  183 

intelligentsia:  pressure  from,  for  reform, 
182;  privileges  of,  78;  purges  of,  78; 
resistance  by,  175 
internal  security,  227-38 
International  Control  Commission,  22 
International  Court  of  Justice,  43 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
xxxvi;  economic  counseling  by,  121; 
membership  in,  123,  165;  standby  cred- 
it agreement  with,  123,  165 
International  Permanent  Court  of  Justice, 
90 

International  Police  organization  (Inter- 
pol), 234 

Interpol.  See  International  Police  organi- 
zation 

investment:  under  communist  system, 
122-23;  in  energy  sector,  142;  foreign, 
165 

Ionian  Sea,  59 
Iran:  trade  with,  164 
irrigation,  40,  134;  projects,  64 
Islam:  conversion  to,  3,  9,  12,  13,  82,  84; 

ethnic  distribution  of,  75;  reform  in,  27 
Islam,  Bektashi,  9,  13-14;  number  of 


277 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


adherents  to,  82;  women  in,  14 
Islam,  Sunni,  9;  number  of  adherents  to, 
82 

isolationism,  4,  38,  50,  57,  191-92,  194, 
213;  effects  of,  xxxv,  166-67;  end  of, 
197 

Italian  language:  education  in,  91 
Italy,  211;  annexation  of  Albania  by, 
32-33,  208-9;  assistance  from,  94,  96, 
104,  166,  234;  attack  on  Greece  by,  33; 
economic  control  by,  31,  105,  106,  203; 
education  under,  90-91;  emigration  to, 
xxxv,  12,  16,  84,  117,  190-91,  224, 
229;  improvements  initiated  by,  30;  in- 
vestment from,  165;  materiel  from,  30; 
occupation  by,  4,  23,  29-30,  32-33,  58, 
90-91,  207,  208-9;  as  predator,  24, 
25,  192,  207;  as  protector,  4;  relations 
with,  175,  194-95,  196-97;  resistance 
against,  35,  208-9;  support  by,  for 
revolts,  23;  trade  negotiations  with,  50; 
trade  with,  162,  163;  withdrawal,  209 


Janina,  15;  armed  resistance  in,  18;  un- 
der Ottoman  rule,  16 
janissaries,  13,  205 
Jews:  geographic  distribution  of,  69 
Julius  Caesar,  6 
Justinian,  7 

Kadare,  Ismail,  78,  183-84;  defection  of, 
184 

Karakaci,  Muhamet,  218 
Kastrioti,  Gjergi  (see  also  Skanderbeg),  10, 
205 

Kastrioti,  Gjon,  10 
Kastrioti  family,  10;  flag,  9 
Kelmendi,  Ali,  34 

Khrushchev,  Nikita,  210;  fall  of,  from 

power,  49 
Klissura,  Ali,  35 

Komsomol.  See  All-Union  Lenin  Com- 
munist Youth  League 

Koprulii  family,  13,  204 

Korea,  Democratic  People's  Republic  of 
(North  Korea):  trade  with,  163 

Kosovo:  Albanian  control  over,  33;  Al- 
banian demographics  in,  69;  Albanian 
ties  to,  22;  Albanians  in,  22,  69,  206, 
214-15;  autonomy  revoked,  69,  215; 
black  market  in,  160;  border  with,  58; 


ceded  to  Yugoslavia,  40;  disputes  over, 
22,  192;  independence  of,  xxxvii;  un- 
der Ottoman  rule,  16;  Serb  ties  to,  22; 
suppression  of,  194,  196 

Kosovo  Polje,  battle  of  (1389),  22,  205 

Kupi,  Abaz,  36 

kuvend  (fealty  ceremony),  7 


Lake  Ohrid,  60,  63 
Lake  Prespa,  60;  drainage  of,  64 
Lake  Prespa  e  Vogel,  60 
Lake  Scutari,  59 

land,  133-34;  arable,  133;  area,  22,  27; 
distribution  of,  134-36;  irrigated,  64, 
134;  ownership,  26,  134-35;  privatiza- 
tion of,  133;  reclamation,  60,  112,  134; 
reform,  40,  85,  107-8,  134,  135 

language  (see  also  under  individual  languages), 
57,  70-71;  prohibitions  against,  71 

Law  on  Major  Constitutional  Provisions 
(1991)  (interim  constitution),  178, 
188-89 

lawyers,  230 

League  of  Nations:  recognition  of  Alba- 
nia by,  25 

Legality  (resistance  group),  36 

Leo  the  Isaurian,  7 

Libya:  trade  with,  164 

literacy  rate,  26,  45,  87,  93;  education  to 
improve,  92;  of  women,  50 

literature,  27 

livestock:  collectivized,  115,  133,  137; 

quality  of,  137;  smuggling  of,  138 
living  standards,  128-29;  decline  in,  129; 

in  urban  areas,  129 
looting,  104-5,  117,  128,  158,  166,  167 
lowlands:  social  leadership  in,  75-76 


Macedonia,  Republic  of:  Albanian 
minority  in,  xxxxvii,  22,  206;  border 
with,  58,  211;  recognition  of,  xxxvii; 
relations  with,  xxxvii 

Macedonians:  geographic  distribution  of, 
69 

Mahmud  II  (sultan),  15 
Maleshova,  Sejfulla,  192 
Malile,  Reis,  195 
Mai  Korab  range,  60 
manufacturing,  146-49;  chemical, 


278 


Index 


146-47;  construction,  149-50;  en- 
gineering, 147;  food  processing,  148-49 

Mao  Zedong,  213 

Markagjoni,  Gjon,  25 

marriage:  laws  regulating,  80;  rate,  80; 
traditions,  76 

mass  organizations,  179-81;  goals  of,  179 

materiel:  air  force,  222;  armed  forces, 
209;  army,  220-21;  from  Britain,  223; 
from  China,  220-22;  from  Italy,  30; 
from  the  Soviet  Union,  220-22;  from 
the  United  States,  33 

media,  181-82;  censorship  of,  182;  na- 
tionalization of,  181;  openness  in,  175, 
186;  regulation  of,  189 

Mehmed  II  (sultan),  10,  12 

Meksi,  Aleksander,  xxxvi 

Mexico:  trade  with,  164 

middle  ages,  8-9 

Military  Academy,  226 

military:  budget,  226-27;  economy, 
226-27;  schools,  225-26;  service,  224 

military  personnel,  223-26;  conscripts, 
219,  222,  223,  224-25;  desertion  by, 
224;  as  laborers,  225;  mobilization 
plans,  223-24;  term  of  service,  223; 
women  as,  223 

military  training,  224,  225;  of  civilians, 
225;  of  conscripts,  224-25 

minerals:  deposits  of,  103,  144;  explora- 
tion for,  106 

mining,  144;  nationalization  of,  78; 
privatization  of,  120;  working  condi- 
tions in,  146 

Ministry  of  Construction,  150 

Ministry  of  Defense,  216 

Ministry  of  Domestic  Trade,  156 

Ministry  of  Education,  156 

Ministry  of  Finance,  118-20;  economic 
decision  makers  in,  118;  inspectors,  120 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Economic  Relations, 
160 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade,  159 

Ministry  of  Health,  156 

Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  204,  228, 

231;  abolished,  232;  organization  of, 

231-32 

Ministry  of  Justice,  233;  eliminated,  49; 
Office  of  Investigations,  179;  reestab- 
lished, 179 
Ministry  of  People's  Defense,  233 
Ministry  of  Public  Order,  204,  232,  233, 
234 

Ministry  of  the  Communal  Economy,  156 


Mirdite'  Republic,  26 
Moisiu,  Spiro,  208 

Montenegrans:  geographic  distribution 
of,  69 

Montenegro:  Albanians  in,  106;  attempts 
by,  to  appropriate  land,  16,  207;  border 
with,  57,  211;  lands  ceded  by,  22;  lands 
ceded  to,  17,  18;  occupation  by,  23; 
support  by,  for  revolts,  23;  relations 
with,  xxxviii 

Mother  Teresa,  87 

Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee  Agen- 
cy, 165 
Murad  II  (sultan),  10,  12 
Murra,  Prokop,  218 
Muslim  aristocracy,  76-77,  84 
Muslims  (see  also  Islam):  number  of,  82 
Mussolini,  Benito,  4,  30,  31,  208,  209 
Mustaqi,  Kico,  218 
Myftiu,  Manush,  184 


Nano,  Fatos,  xxxvii,  179,  189 
National  Assembly,  24,  25 
National  Bank  of  Albania,  1123 
National   Information   Service  (NIS), 

235-36;  created,  190,  204,  232;  mission 

of,  232 

nationalism:  emergence  of,  4,  16,  17-21, 
206 

nationalist  movement:  impediments  to, 
19 

nationalization:  of  banks,  78;  of  forests, 
40,  107,  173;  of  industry,  39,  78,  173; 
of  media,  181 ;  of  mining,  78;  of  public 
utilities,  107;  of  trade,  78;  of  transpor- 
tation, 39,  78,  107,  173 

National  Land  Commission,  135 

National  Liberation  Army  (NLA),  35; 
battles,  209;  formed,  208;  troop 
strength,  209 

National  Liberation  Front  (NLF),  36, 
172,  180,  203,  208 

National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM), 
35,  172,  208 

National  Lycee  of  Korce,  88 

National  Privatization  Agency:  created, 
120 

National  Union.  See  Balli  Kombetar 
National  Unity  Party,  188 
NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Or- 
ganization 
natural  resources,  140-46 
navy,  222-23;  bases  of,  222;  conscripts 


279 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


in,  222;  mission  of,  222;  personnel 
strength  of,  222;  organization  of,  222; 
origins  of,  222;  problems  in,  222;  ser- 
vice in,  224-25;  ships,  223 

Near  East  Foundation,  90 

Nendori,  86 

net  material  product:  agriculture  as  per- 
centage of,  103 
NIS.  See  National  Information  Service 
NLA.  See  National  Liberation  Army 
NLF.  See  National  Liberation  Front 
NLM.  See  National  Liberation  Movement 
Noli,  Fan  S.,  27;  resignation  of,  28 
Noli  government,  28-29,  34;  overthrown, 
29 

Normans,  8 

north:  beys  in,  76;  culture  in,  74;  family 
in,  75 

North  Albanian  Alps  (Bjeshket  e  Namu- 
na),  59 

North  Atlantic  Cooperation  Council:  par- 
ticipation in,  xxxvii,  214 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO),  213;  membership  in,  xxxvii 

North  Korea.  See  Korea,  People's  Demo- 
cratic Republic  of 

Occidental  Petroleum,  143 
oil  {see  also  petroleum),  31,  103,  115 
OMONIA  (Unity),  xxxviii 
Opposition  Party  of  Democrats,  28 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference: 

membership  in,  xxxvii 
Orthodox  Church.  See  Albanian  Ortho- 
dox Church 
Ottoman  Empire,  3-4;  bondsmen,  12-13; 
conquest  by,  9-12,  205;  defeat  of,  4;  ex- 
pansion of,  9-10;  independence  from, 
204,  205 

Ottoman  rule,  9-24;  reforms  under,  16; 
resistance  to,  10-12,  21;  revolts  against, 
9,  205;  social  organization  under,  76; 
suppression  of  Albanian  culture  under, 
19,  20;  suppression  of  Albanian  lan- 
guage under,  71;  taxes  under,  14 

Paris:  as  headquarters  for  exiles,  34 
Paris  Peace  Conference:  delegation  to,  24; 

division  of  Albania  in,  25 
parliament:  created,  25 
Pasha,  Reshid,  15-16 


Pasha,  Turgut  (dervish),  18 
Pasha  Liman:  naval  base,  222 
pashas,  84 

Pashko,  Gramoz,  187 
Pashko,  Vaso,  85 

pastureland,  138;  grazing  fees  for,  138; 

nationalized,  40,  107,  173 
peaceful  coexistence:  opposition  to,  46 
peasants,  14;  benefits  for,  107;  income  of, 

80;  living  conditions  of,  77;  oppression 

of,  116;  revolts  by,  28 
penal  code,  230 
penal  system,  230-31 
People's  Army.  See  armed  forces;  army 
People's  Assembly,   172,   178;  armed 

forces  under,  216;  elections  for,  xxxv, 

39,  188;  mission  of,  178,  189;  presidi- 
um of,  178;  size  of,  178 
people's  councils,  179 
People's  Police,   204,   232,  236-37; 

branches  of,  236;  mission  of,  232,  237; 

service  obligation  in,  237 
People's  Republic  of  China.  See  China, 

People's  Republic  of 
People's  Socialist  Republic  of  Albania.  See 

Albania,  People's  Socialist  Republic  of 
perestroika,  183,  198 

petroleum  (see  also  oil),  140,  142;  export 
of,  164;  reserves,  142;  refineries,  142; 
work  force  in,  142 

Petroleum  and  Gas  Directorate,  142 

Philby,  Kim,  43-44 

Philip  II,  5 

Plav:  armed  resistance  in,  18 
Poland:  trade  agreement  with,  44;  trade 
with,  162 

Political  Bureau  (Politburo),  42,  176; 
privileges  of,  79;  women  in,  82 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual  par- 
ties): emergence  of,  27 

political  repression:  under  Hoxha,  xxxv 

political  protests,  186;  by  students,  183; 
by  workers,  183,  229 

Pompey,  6 

Popular  Party,  27 

population,  22,  26,  45,  57,  66,  130;  age 
distribution  in,  66,  130,  182,  223;  den- 
sity, 66;  ethnic  distribution  in,  66;  loss- 
es in  World  War  II,  37,  66;  percentage 
of  Greeks  in,  68;  settlement  patterns, 
74;  workers  as  percentage  of,  79 

population  statistics:  birth  rate,  26,  66, 


280 


Index 


103;  death  rate,  66;  fertility  rate,  66; 

growth  rate,  66;  infant  mortality  rate, 

26,  45,  94-96;  life  expectancy,  26,  66; 

maternal  mortality  rate,  96;  sex  ratio, 

66,  130,  223 
ports:  privatization  of,  120 
president,  189;  as  commander  in  chief, 

216 

Prevesa:  armed  resistance  in,  18 

prices,  126-28;  controls  on,  156,  158, 
160;  controls  on,  removed,  126-27, 
175;  lowered,  126;  of  necessities,  128 

prisoners:  amnesties  for,  231;  number  of, 
231;  political,  230,  231 

prisons,  230-31;  conditions  in,  231 

privatization,  103;  of  agriculture,  118, 
120;  disputes  under,  136;  of  commu- 
nications, 120;  of  economic  enterprises, 
118;  of  food  industry,  xxxvi,  148;  of 
forests,  120;  of  housing,  xxvi,  120;  of 
industry,  120;  of  land,  133;  of  mining, 
120;  progress  of,  120-21,  185;  of  trade, 
158,  187;  of  transportation,  120 

Prizren:  armed  resistance  in,  18 

Prizren  League,  4;  abolished,  19,  20; 
armed  resistance  by,  18,  20;  formed, 
16,  17,  20;  goals  of,  17;  leaders  of, 
deported,  19;  memorandum  by,  sent  to 
Congress  of  Berlin,  18 

Progressive  Party,  27 

propaganda,  155,  182 

property:  ownership  of,  120-21;  private, 
120-21;  reforms,  120 

purges,  43,  46,  51,  114,  172,  173,  174, 
192,  228 


radio,  155;  regulation  of,  189 

railroads,  152;  damage  to,  152;  privati- 
zation of,  120;  shipping  on,  152 

reforms:  under  Alia,  182-91;  electoral, 
185;  initial  stages,  182-84;  under  Ot- 
tomans, 16;  political,  183;  pressure  for, 
182;  sources  of,  182 

religion  (see  also  under  individual  sects),  57, 
82-87;  abolished,  50,  85-87;  punish- 
ment for  practicing,  86-87;  revival  of, 
87,  230;  secret  practice  of,  13,  84-85, 
86-87 

repression,  227-231 

Republican  Party,  187-88;  in  coalition 
government,  190 


Republic  of  Macedonia.  See  Macedonia, 
Republic  of 

resistance,  21;  by  communists,  34;  by  in- 
telligentsia, 175;  against  Italy,  35; 
against  Montenegro,  25;  by  Prizren 
League,  18;  against  Serbia,  25;  under 
Skanderbeg,  10-12;  to  Young  Turks, 
20-21 

revolts,  23;  anticommunist,  117,  173;  by 
peasants,  28 

Rexha,  Lumturie,  181 

Rilindja  Demokratike,  182,  186,  187 

rivers,  59,  63;  channels  of,  64;  flooding 
of,  63;  navigability  of,  63 

roads,  59,  150,  151-52;  absence  of,  106; 
construction  of,  151;  maintenance  of, 
151;  network  of,  151;  privatization  of, 
120;  traffic  on,  151 

Roman  Catholic  Church.  See  Catholic 
Church,  Roman 

Romania:  assistance  from,  234;  emigra- 
tion to,  12,  16;  military  relations  with, 
212;  relations  with,  xxxviii,  198;  trade 
agreement  with,  44;  trade  with,  162 

Roman  rule,  3;  soldiers  under,  205 

Rumelia,  16;  under  Ottoman  rule,  16 

rural  areas:  development  in,  74;  electric- 
ity in,  144;  housing  in,  98;  travel  res- 
trictions in,  115 

Russo-Turkish  War  (1877-78),  17,  84 

Rustemi,  Avni,  28 


Sarande:  naval  base,  222;  port  of,  152, 
230 

savings,  125-26;  rate,  125 
Savings  Bank,  123 

Sazan  Island:  dismanding  of  Soviet  naval 
station,  48,  211;  naval  base,  222;  Soviet 
naval  installation  on,  44,  210 

schools:  American,  88-90;  collapse  of,  94; 
elementary,  88;  enrollment,  93-94; 
foreign-language,  90;  languages  in,  19, 
41,  87;  number  of,  45;  primary,  92;  re- 
organized, 93;  secondary,  92;  spon- 
sored by  foreign  occupying  powers,  88; 
sponsored  by  Red  Cross,  27;  teacher- 
training,  84,  92;  trade,  92;  vocational, 
92 

secret  police,  227-28,  228 
security  forces,  231-38;  organization  of, 
232 


281 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


security  police.  See  Directorate  of  State 
Security 

security  policy,  211-15;  focus  of,  212;  suc- 
cess of,  212 
Selami,  Eduard,  xxxvii 
self-reliance,  51 
Seman  River,  64 

Serbia:  attempts  by,  to  appropriate  land, 
16,  207;  border  with,  57,  211;  lands 
ceded  by,  22;  lands  ceded  to,  17;  occu- 
pation by,  23,  58;  problems  with,  211; 
support  by,  for  revolts,  23 

Serbo-Croatian  language:  taught  in  Al- 
banian schools,  41 

Serbs:  arrival  of,  in  Balkans,  8;  geograph- 
ic distribution  of,  69;  massacre  by,  25; 
ties  of,  to  Kosovo,  22 

Shehu,  Mehmet,  173;  background  of,  34, 
90;  death  of,  52,  174;  as  defense  mini- 
ster, 218;  as  prime  minister,  45,  179; 
reaction  of,  to  Khrushchev,  46;  rise  to 
power  by,  4 

Shengjin:  naval  base,  222;  port  of,  152, 
230 

Shevardnadze,  Eduard  A.,  199 
Shkoder,  15,  74;  armed  resistance  in,  18; 

under  Ottoman  rule,  16;  riots  in,  117 
Sigurimi.  See  Directorate  of  State  Security 
Skander  (prince),  33 
Skanderbeg  (see  also  Kastrioti,  Gjergi),  3, 

9,  10,  204,  205;  resistance  under,  10-12 
Skanderbeg  Military  School,  225-26 
Skanderbeg  SS  Division,  36 
Slovenia:  relations  with,  xxxviii 
smuggling,  160-62 

Social  Democratic  Party,  188;  in  coalition 
government,  190 

Socialist  Party  of  Albania  (SPA)  (see  also 
Albanian  Communist  Party;  Albanian 
Party  of  Labor),  175-76,  190,  217 

social  insurance,  98-99;  child  care,  99, 
129;  disability  benefits,  98;  expendi- 
tures for,  98;  maternity  benefits,  98-99; 
retirement  benefits,  98 

social  system,  74-82;  classes  in,  77-78, 
79;  under  communist  rule,  77-82;  po- 
sitions under,  78;  traditional  patterns 
in,  74-77 

Society  for  the  Economic  Development  of 
Albania,  30,  31 

Society  for  the  Printing  of  Albanian  Writ- 
ings, 19 

south:  culture  in,  74 


Soviet-Albanian  Friendship  Society,  199 
Soviet  Union:  assistance  from,  xxxv,  4, 
45,  47,  104,  109,  110,  111,  210;  as- 
sistance from,  cut  off,  156,  201;  at- 
tempted coup  in,  190;  Czechoslovakia 
invaded  by,  193,  212,  224;  dependence 
on,  109-11,  212;  dismantling  of  Sazan 
Island  naval  station,  48;  espionage  by, 
193;  impact  of,  on  economy,  49,  105; 
military  assistance  from,  203,  220,  224; 
naval  installation  of,  on  Sazan  Island, 
44;  as  protector,  42,  203,  210;  relations 
of,  with  China,  47;  relations  with, 
44-46,  198,  199,  211,  214;  trade  agree- 
ment with,  44;  trade  with,  110,  159 
SPA.  See  Socialist  Party  of  Albania 
Spanish  Civil  War,  34 
Spiru,  Nako,  41;  death  of,  42 
Stalin,  Joseph,  3 

State  Bank  of  Albania,  123;  exchange 
rates  set  by,  124;  speculation  by,  122- 
23 

Stefani,  Simon,  231 

Strait  of  Otranto,  58 

strikes,  133,  143,  148,  229 

student  demonstrations,  xxxv,  177,  183, 

229;  causes  of,  185-86;  in  Kosovo,  69; 

in  Tirane,  185,  188 
students:  Alia's  meeting  with,  185;  as 

party  members,  217;  pressure  from,  for 

reform,  182;  women  as,  80,  94 
Sublime  Porte,  14;  reforms  under,  16 
subsidies,  129;  elimination  of,  124 
Supreme  Court,  179,  189 
Switzerland:  assistance  from,  96 


Tamerlane,  10 

tanzimat  (reforms),  16 

taxes:  array  of,  125;  collection  of,  124;  in- 
come, eliminated,  112,  124;  under  Ot- 
toman rule,  14;  on  profits,  125;  on  war 
profits,  107 

teachers:  number  of,  45,  94;  training  for, 
88,  92 

telephone:  calls,  155;  density,  155;  net- 
work, 150 
television,  155;  regulation  of,  189 
terrorism,  20 
Teuta  (queen),  6 
Thane  reservoir,  64 
Thopia,  Karl,  10 


282 


Thracians,  5 

Tirane:  as  capital  city,  25;  location  of,  57; 

riots  in,  117;  urban  dwellers  in,  74 
Tirane  Textile  Combine,  148 
Tito,  Josip  Broz,  35,  41,  192 
topography,  59-63;  central  uplands,  60; 

coastal  belt,  59-60;  elevation,  140-42; 

mountains,  59-63 
Toptani,  Esad  Pasha,  22 
Toptani  family,  75 

Tosks  (lowlanders),  9,  14;  characteristics 
of,  68;  emigration  by,  16;  families  of, 
75;  feudal  society  of,  77;  under  Hox- 
ha,  67;  marriage  traditions  of,  76;  per- 
centage of,  in  population,  66;  political 
power  of,  39;  religion  of,  75;  social  or- 
ganization of,  76-77 
tourism,  158-59;  volume  of,  159 
trade  (see  also  exports;  imports;  balance  of 
trade):  with  China,  114;  collectives  in, 
156;  commodity  pattern  of,  164-65; 
with  developing  countries,  164;  food  as 
percentage  of,  158;  government  mo- 
nopoly on,  159-60;  liberalization  of, 
118,  127;  nationalization  of,  78;  part- 
ners, 162-64;  privatized,  158,  187;  re- 
tail, 156;  with  the  Soviet  Union,  110; 
supply  networks,  156;  with  the  West, 
159,  197;  women  in,  132;  work  force 
in,  130 

trade  agreements:  with  Czechoslovakia, 
44;  with  France,  50;  with  Greece,  31; 
with  Hungary,  44;  with  Italy,  50;  with 
Poland,  44;  with  Romania,  44;  with  the 
Soviet  Union,  44;  with  Yugoslavia,  31 
trade  unions,  127,  132-33,  181 
transportation,  150-51;  air,  152;  borrow- 
ing for,  30;  under  five-year  plans,  109; 
hijacking  in,  152;  nationalization  of, 
39,  78,  173;  privatization  of,  120; 
problems  with,  74;  public,  129,  150-51; 
railroads,  150,  152;  roads,  150,  151-52; 
water,  152;  work  force  in,  130 
travel:  passes,  150;  restrictions,  185 
Treaty  of  Bucharest  (1913),  22 
Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and 
Mutual  Aid  with  Yugoslavia  (1946), 
192 

Treaty  of  Kuchuk-Kainarji  (1774),  84 
Treaty  of  London  (1913),  21;  (1915),  23 
Treaty  of  San  Stefano  (1878):  opposition 

to,  17-18;  signed,  17 
Treaty  of  Tirane,  First  (1926),  30,  31, 


Index 


207;  Second  (1926),  30,  207 
Turkey:  assistance  from,  166;  investment 
from,  165;  relations  with,  xxxvii,  175, 
194,  196,  213;  trade  with,  164 
Turkish  language,  71 ;  as  language  of  edu- 
cation, 88 


unemployment,  94,  117,  130-32,  167 
Uniate  Church,  12,  84 
UNICEF.  See  United  Nations  Children's 
Fund 

Union  for  Human  Rights,  xxxviii 
Union  of  Agriculture  and  Procurements 

Workers,  181 
Union  of  Albanian  Women,  181 
Union  of  Albanian  Working  Youth,  180, 

217 

Union  of  Education  and  Trade  Workers, 
181 

Union  of  Workers  of  Industry  and  Con- 
struction, 181 

United  Higher  Officers'  School,  226 

United  Nations:  admission  to,  43,  192; 
Alia's  visit  to,  199-200 

United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF), 
96 

United  Nations  Human  Rights  Commit- 
tee, 184 

United  Nations  Relief  and  Rehabilitation 
Administration:  aid  from,  41,  108 

United  States:  assistance  from,  96,  108, 
166;  emigration  to,  16;  materiel  from, 
33;  plans  of,  to  overthrow  communists, 
43-44;  relations  with,  43-44,  192,  198- 
99,  214;  schools  run  by,  88-90;  support 
by,  25;  trade  with,  164 

United  Trade  Unions  of  Albania,  181 

Unity.  See  OMONIA 

universities:  education  in  foreign,  90-91; 
scholarships  for,  90-91 

University  of  Pristina,  70 

University  of  Tirane  Hospital,  96 

urban  areas:  housing  in,  98;  living  stan- 
dards in,  129;  populations  in,  74 


Venetians,  8,  205 

Verlaci,  Shefqet  Bey,  27,  28,  31;  death 
sentence  on,  29;  as  prime  minister,  28, 
33 


283 


Albania:  A  Country  Study 


Via  Egnatia,  7,  10 
Victor  Emmanuel  III  (king),  32,  33 
Vjose-Levan-Fier  irrigation  canal,  64 
Vjose  River,  64 

Vlachs:  geographic  distribution  of,  69 
Vlore:  naval  base,  222;  port  of,  152,  230; 

urban  dwellers  in,  74 
Vrioni  family,  75 


wages,  112,  117,  125-28;  average,  126, 
127,  128-29;  decline  in,  126,  127; 
egalitarian  structure  of,  127;  modifica- 
tion of,  127 

Warsaw  Pact.  See  Warsaw  Treaty  Organi- 
zation 

Warsaw  Treaty  Organization  (Warsaw 
Pact),  213;  membership  in,  46,  210, 
211,  212 

water  transportation,  152-55;  ferry  ser- 
vice, 152,  196;  merchant  fleet,  152 

West  Germany.  See  Germany,  Federal 
Republic  of 

Wilhelm  of  Wied  (prince),  22-23;  exiled, 
23 

Wilson,  Woodrow,  25 

women:  in  agriculture,  82;  in  armed 
forces,  223;  in  Bektashi  Islam,  14;  in 
communist  party,  80,  82;  in  Geg  clans, 
68;  education  of,  80,  94;  literacy  of,  50; 
maternity  leave  for,  98-99;  offenses 
against,  76;  in  politics,  176;  rights  of, 
50,  80,  181 ;  roles  of,  76;  in  work  force, 
80,  132 

workers:  conditions  for,  130;  freedoms  of, 
117;  living  conditions  of,  77;  man- 
agement of  enterprises  by,  121 ;  moon- 
lighting by,  113;  as  percentage  of 
population,  79;  pressure  from,  for  re- 
form, 182;  productivity,  130;  protests, 
183;  public  service  details,  130 

work  force:  in  agriculture,  103,  130, 
135-36;  in  communications,  130;  in 
construction,  130;  in  education,  130;  in 
energy  sector,  142;  size  of,  130;  in 
trade,  130;  women  in,  80,  130,  132 

Worner,  Manfred,  xxxvii 

World  Bank:  counseling  from,  121,  140, 
167;  membership  in,  165 

World  War  I,  23-24,  206-7 


World  War  II,  208-9;  losses  from,  37,  66, 
98 


Xoxe,  Koci,  38,  39,  173,  210,  228;  ex- 
ecuted, 43,  192 

Young  Turks  (Committee  of  Union  and 
Progress):  education  under,  88;  goals 
of,  20;  rebellion  by,  20;  resistance  to, 
20-21;  rule  by,  20 

Ypi,  Xhafer,  28 

Yugoslavia:  assistance  from,  xxxv,  4,  41, 
104;  border  problems  with,  215;  con- 
trol by,  24,  105,  108-9,  203,  228;  de- 
pendence on,  108-9,  212;  economic 
agreements  with,  108;  economic  con- 
trol by,  41-42;  economic  policies  of,  46; 
expelled  by  Cominform,  40,  109,  192, 
210;  exports  to,  144;  investment  by,  41; 
Kosovo  under,  194,  2115;  lands  ac- 
quired by,  30,  40;  lands  desired  by,  37; 
military  assistance  from,  33,  203,  212; 
mistrust  of,  46;  as  predator,  25-26, 
192;  problems  with,  211;  rail  line  to, 
152,  163;  relations  with,  50,  175,  192, 
193,  195,  213;  technical  agreements 
with,  108;  tensions  with,  40,  42;  trade 
agreement  with,  31;  trade  with, 
162-63,  196;  treaty  with,  108;  Zogu  ex- 
iled to,  28 

Yugoslav  People's  Army,  215 

Zen  i  Popullit,  116,  182 

Zhulali,  Safet,  xxxvii 

Zog  (king)  {see  also  Ahmed  Bey  Zogu),  24, 
75,  77;  ascension  of,  31;  assassination 
attempt  on,  31;  clans  under,  67;  econ- 
omy under,  32;  industry  under,  32; 
overthrown,  4,  24;  in  plans  to  over- 
throw communists,  43-44 

Zogolli  family,  75 

Zogu,  Ahmed  Bey  {see  also  Zog),  24; 
armed  forces  under,  207;  assassination 
attempt  on,  28;  background  of,  27-28, 
75;  death  sentence  on,  29;  economy  un- 
der, 106;  exiled  to  Yugoslavia,  28;  op- 
position to,  28;  overthrow  of  Noli  by, 
29;  as  president,  29;  repression  by,  28, 
29;  social  structure  under,  77 


284 


Contributors 


Walter  R.  Iwaskiw  is  Senior  Research  Specialist  in  Eurasian  and 
East  European  Affairs,  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress,  Washington,  D.C. 

Amy  Knight  is  Senior  Research  Specialist  in  Eurasian  and  East 
European  Affairs,  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Con- 
gress, Washington,  D.C. 

Karl  Wheeler  Soper  is  Analyst  of  Eurasian  and  East  European 
Affairs,  U.S.  Navy,  Washington,  D.C. 

Charles  Sudetic  is  Correspondent  for  the  New  York  Times,  covering 
Yugoslavia,  Bosnia,  Croatia,  Albania,  Bulgaria,  and  Romania. 

Raymond  E.  Zickel  is  Head,  Eurasian  and  East  European  Sec- 
tion, Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Congress,  Washing- 
ton, D.C. 


285 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

287 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

288 


PIN: 006949-000 


