area  handbook  series 

Angola 

a  country  study 


t 


Angola 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Thomas  Collelo 
Research  Completed 
February  1989 


On  the  cover:  Portion  of  a  fresco  depicting  revolutionary 
scenes  at  the  Karl  Marx  Institute  of  Education  in  Luanda 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1991. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Angola  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Thomas  Collelo.  —  3d  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series)  (DA  pam  ;  550-59) 
"Supersedes  the  1979  edition  of  Angola  :  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Irving  Kaplan" — T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  December  1988." 

Includes  bibiliographical  references  (pp.  277-295)  and  index. 
Supt.  of  Docs.  no.  :  D  101.22:550-59/990 

1.  Angola.    I.  Collelo,  Thomas,  1948-      .  II.  Kaplan,  Irving. 
III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  IV.  Series. 
V.  Series:  DA  pam  ;  550-559. 


DT1269.A54 
967.3— dc20 


1990 


90-3244 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-59 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


111 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  fol- 
lowing individuals,  who  wrote  the  1979  edition  of  Angola:  A  Coun- 
try Study,  edited  by  Irving  Kaplan:  H.  Mark  Roth,  "Historical 
Setting";  Irving  Kaplan,  "The  Society  and  Its  Physical  Setting"; 
Margarita  Dobert,  "Government  and  Politics";  Eugene  K.  Keefe, 
"National  Security";  and  Donald  P.  Whitaker,  "The  Economy." 
Their  work  provided  the  organization  and  structure  of  the  present 
volume,  as  well  as  substantial  portions  of  the  text. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  government 
agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  expertise  to  the  production  of  this  book.  The  authors 
also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal  Research  Division  staff 
who  contributed  directly  to  the  production  of  the  manuscript.  These 
people  include  Richard  F.  Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and 
served  as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency,  and  Marilyn  L.  Majes- 
ka  and  Andrea  T.  Merrill,  who  managed  book  production.  Vin- 
cent Ercolano  and  Sharon  Schultz  edited  the  chapters,  and  Beverly 
Wolpert  performed  the  final  prepublication  review.  Also  involved 
in  preparing  the  text  were  editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton 
and  Izella  Watson.  Shirley  Kessel  compiled  the  index.  Linda  Peter- 
son of  the  Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit  set  the  type, 
under  the  direction  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

Invaluable  graphics  support  was  provided  by  David  P.  Cabitto, 
who  reviewed  all  the  graphics  and  designed  the  artwork  on  the  cover 
and  title  page  of  each  chapter;  Kimberly  A.  Lord,  who  prepared 
all  the  maps  except  the  topography  and  drainage  map,  which  was 
prepared  by  Harriett  R.  Blood;  and  Sandra  K.  Ferrell,  who  pre- 
pared the  charts.  In  addition,  Carolina  E.  Forrester  reviewed  the 
map  drafts,  and  Arvies  J.  Staton  supplied  information  on  ranks 
and  insignia. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs  to 
be  used  in  this  study.  The  authors  are  indebted  especially  to  those 
persons  who  contributed  original  work  not  previously  published. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction      xxi 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Rachel  Warner 

PRECOLONIAL  ANGOLA  AND  THE  ARRIVAL 

OF  THE  PORTUGUESE   5 

Kongo  Kingdom    6 

Ndongo  Kingdom    10 

The  Defeat  of  Kongo  and  Ndongo    11 

Matamba  and  Kasanje  Kingdoms    12 

Lunda  and  Chokwe  Kingdoms    13 

Ovimbundu  and  Kwanhama  Kingdoms    13 

The  Dutch  Interregnum,  1641-48    14 

ANGOLA  IN  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY    14 

Slave  Trading  in  the  1700s    14 

Portuguese  Settlers  in  Angola    16 

THE  1800s:  TURMOIL  IN  PORTUGAL,  REFORM 

AND  EXPANSION  IN  ANGOLA   16 

The  Early  Nineteenth  Century    16 

Abolition  of  the  Slave  Trade    17 

Expansion  and  the  Berlin  Conference    17 

SETTLEMENT,  CONQUEST,  AND  DEVELOPMENT   19 

The  Demographic  Situation   19 

Military  Campaigns   20 

Administration  and  Development    20 

ANGOLA  UNDER  THE  SALAZAR  REGIME   .   21 

Angola  under  the  New  State    21 

Salazar's  Racial  Politics   22 

RISE  OF  AFRICAN  NATIONALISM    23 

Roots  of  Discontent   24 

African  Associations    26 

Organizational  Weaknesses    27 

vii 


Beginning  of  Revolution    28 

ANGOLAN  INSURGENCY    29 

Ascendancy  of  the  MPLA    31 

Emergence  of  UNITA   32 

Liberation  Movements  in  Cabinda    33 

Portuguese  Economic  Interests  and  Resistance 

to  Angolan  Independence    34 

The  Portuguese  Coup  d'Etat  and  the  End  of  the 

Colonial  Era    35 

COALITION,  THE  TRANSITIONAL  GOVERNMENT, 

AND  CIVIL  WAR    36 

Foreign  Intervention    38 

Collapse  of  the  Transitional  Government    38 

South  African  Intervention    39 

INDEPENDENCE  AND  THE  RISE  OF 

THE  MPLA  GOVERNMENT   40 

Transformation  into  a  Marxist-Leninist  Party  and 

Internal  Dissent  .   41 

Shaba  Invasion  and  the  Nitista  Plot    41 

Strenthening  Ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  Its 

Allies    42 

Economic  Problems  and  Implementation 

of  Socialist  Policies   44 

The  UNITA  Insurgency  and  the  South  African 

Threat    45 

The  Final  Days  of  the  Neto  Regime    46 

THE  DOS  SANTOS  REGIME    47 

Steps  Toward  a  Stronger  Party  and  Political 

Discord    48 

The  Namibia  Issue  and  Security  Threats  in  the 

1980s    48 

Second  Party  Congress    50 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   53 

Rachel  Warner 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    57 

Terrain    57 

Drainage    60 

Climate    61 

POPULATION  STRUCTURE  AND  DYNAMICS   61 

ETHNIC  GROUPS  AND  LANGUAGES    64 

The  Definition  of  Ethnicity    65 

Ethnolinguistic  Categories    67 

viii 


Mestizos    79 

STRUCTURE  OF  SOCIETY    80 

Social  Structure  in  Rural  Communities   81 

Social  Structure  in  Urban  Areas    86 

Effects  of  Socialist  Policies   87 

Role  of  Women  and  Children    90 

Effects  of  the  Insurgency    91 

RELIGIOUS  LIFE   92 

Christianity    94 

Indigenous  Religious  Systems    97 

EDUCATION   100 

Conditions  Before  Independence    100 

Conditions  after  Independence    100 

Education  in  UNITA-Claimed  Territory   103 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   104 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    ill 

Nancy  Clark 

BACKGROUND  TO  ECONOMIC 

DEVELOPMENT    113 

STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY    116 

ROLE  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT   117 

FOREIGN  TRADE  AND  ASSISTANCE    119 

Foreign  Trade    120 

Foreign  Assistance   121 

LABOR  FORCE   122 

EXTRACTIVE  INDUSTRIES   125 

Oil   125 

Diamonds    131 

Iron  Ore    133 

Other  Minerals    135 

AGRICULTURE    135 

Coffee    137 

Food  Crops  and  Livestock   138 

Timber    140 

Fishing    140 

INDUSTRY   141 

Electric  Power    142 

Food  Processing   142 

Light  Industry   144 

Heavy  Industry    146 

Construction  Materials    147 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  TELECOMMUNI- 
CATIONS   147 

ix 


Roads    147 

Railroads    147 

Ports    150 

Air  Transport    151 

Telecommunications    151 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS,  FINANCES,  AND 

FOREIGN  DEBT    152 

Balance  of  Trade  and  Payments    152 

Finances    154 

Foreign  Debt    154 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   157 

Rita  M.  Byrnes 

BACKGROUND   160 

STRUCTURE  OF  GOVERNMENT   164 

The  Constitution    164 

Executive  Branch   165 

Legislative  Branch    168 

Judicial  System    169 

Local  Administration   169 

POPULAR  MOVMENT  FOR  THE  LIBERATION  OF 

ANGOLA-WORKERS'  PARTY    170 

Background    170 

Structure    171 

Operations   174 

POLITICAL  ENVIRONMENT   176 

MASS  ORGANIZATIONS  AND  INTEREST  GROUPS    180 

Mass  Organizations   180 

Interest  Groups    183 

POLITICAL  OPPOSITION   187 

MASS  MEDIA    189 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS                                                   .  191 

Policy  Making   191 

Regional  Politics    192 

Communist  Nations   197 

United  States  and  Western  Europe    199 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    203 

Joseph  P.  Smaldone 

NATIONAL  SECURITY  ENVIRONMENT    206 

EVOLUTION  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES    208 

Background    208 

Independence  Struggle,  Civil  War, 

and  Intervention    209 


x 


The  Development  of  FAPLA    210 

ARMED  FORCES    211 

Constitutional  and  Political  Context    211 

Armed  Forces  Organization  and  Mission    214 

Troop  Strength,  Recruitment,  and  Conscription   222 

Conditions  of  Service,  Ranks,  and  Military 

Justice    223 

Foreign  Influences    224 

Training    229 

FAPLA 's  Combat  Performance   231 

WAR  AND  THE  ROLE  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES 

IN  SOCIETY    232 

The  Costs  of  Endemic  Conflict    232 

War  and  the  Military  in  National  Perspective   233 

Civic  Action  and  Veterans'  Groups    235 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    235 

Antigovernment  Opposition   236 

Erstwhile  Opposition:  FLEC  and  the  FNLA   237 

The  Enduring  Rival:  UNITA    238 

Angola  as  a  Refuge    244 

Internal  Security  Forces  and  Organization    246 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   250 

Criminal  Justice  System    250 

Prison  System    252 

Incidence  and  Trends  in  Crime   252 

Human  Rights   254 

Appendix  A.  Tables    257 

Appendix  B.  1988  Regional  Accords    271 

Bibliography    277 

Glossary    297 

Index    301 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Angola,  1988    xx 

2  Major  Angolan  Kingdoms,  1200-1900    8 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    58 

4  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  Mid- 1986    62 

5  Ethnolinguistic  Groups,  1988    68 

6  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1985    116 

7  Crude  Oil  Production,  1980-87    126 

8  Oil  Exploration  and  Production  Areas,  1986    128 

9  Economic  Activity,  1988    134 


xi 


10  Transportation  System,  1988   148 

11  Structure  of  the  Government,  1988   166 

12  Structure  of  the  MPLA-PT,  1988   172 

13  Military  Regions  and  Principal  Bases,  1987   216 

14  Organization  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense,  1988   218 

15  Military  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1988   228 

16  Territory  Claimed  by  UNITA,  1988   240 


xii 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  con- 
cise and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social,  political,  econom- 
ic, and  military  aspects  of  Angolan  society.  Sources  of  information 
included  scholarly  journals  and  monographs,  official  reports  of 
governments  and  international  organizations,  foreign  and  domes- 
tic newspapers,  and  numerous  periodicals.  Up-to-date  data  from 
Angolan  sources  for  the  most  part  were  unavailable.  Chapter  bib- 
liographies appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  some 
of  the  more  valuable  sources  suggested  as  possible  further  reading 
appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the 
metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those  read- 
ers who  are  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 ,  Ap- 
pendix A).  A  glossary  is  also  included. 

Place-names  follow  a  modified  version  of  the  system  adopted  by 
the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names  and  the  Perma- 
nent Committee  on  Geographic  Names  for  British  Official  Use, 
known  as  the  BGN/PCGN  system.  The  modification  is  a  signifi- 
cant one,  however,  in  that  some  diacritical  markings  and  hyphens 
have  been  omitted. 

Terminology  and  spelling  sometimes  presented  problems.  For 
example,  after  independence  Angola's  ruling  party  was  known  as 
the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Movimento 
Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — MPLA).  In  1977,  however,  in 
asserting  its  commitment  to  the  principles  of  Marxism-Leninism, 
the  MPLA  added  to  its  nomenclature  "Partido  de  Trabalho. "  The 
term  is  translated  in  this  book  as  "Workers'  Party"  but  is  else- 
where often  seen  as  "Labor  Party."  Furthermore,  because  the  spell- 
ing of  the  names  of  ethnic  groups  occasionally  varies,  in  some  cases 
alternate  spellings  are  given  in  parentheses.  Finally,  many  Ango- 
lan officials  who  fought  in  the  liberation  struggle  against  the  Por- 
tuguese acquired  noms  de  guerre;  these  officials  are  often  referred 
to  in  press  accounts  by  their  nicknames.  When  such  officials  are 
cited  in  the  text,  their  noms  de  guerre  are  given  in  parentheses 
after  their  surnames. 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  People's  Republic  of  Angola. 

Short  Form:  Angola. 

Term  for  Citizens:  Angolans. 

Date  of  Independence:  1975,  from  Portugal. 


xv 


Geography 

Size:  Approximately  1,246,700  square  kilometers,  including  enclave 
of  Cabinda. 

Topography:  Coastal  lowland  along  Atlantic;  Namib  Desert  south 
of  Benguela;  hills  and  mountains  paralleling  coast  rise  to  high 
plateau  in  east,  divided  by  many  rivers  and  streams.  Much  of 
Cabinda  Province  coastal  plain  and  hills. 

Climate:  Hotter  and  drier  along  coast  than  in  mountains  and 
plateau.  Rainy  season  in  northern  part  of  country  from  September 
to  April;  in  southern  part  from  November  to  about  February.  Coolest 
months  July  and  August.  Warm  and  wet  in  Cabinda  Province. 

Society 

Population:  In  1988  estimated  at  8.2  million,  most  of  which  con- 
centrated in  western  half  of  country.  About  46  percent  of  popula- 
tion under  age  fifteen  in  1986. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Ovimbundu,  Mbundu,  and  Bakongo  constitut- 
ed nearly  three-fourths  of  population  in  1988.  Other  groups  Lunda- 
Chokwe,  Nganguela,  Nyaneka-Humbe,  Ovambo,  mestigo  (see 
Glossary),  and  European. 

Languages:  Portuguese  official  language,  but  Bantu  languages 
spoken  by  more  than  95  percent  of  population. 

Religion:  Christians  (Roman  Catholics  and  various  Protestant 
denominations)  estimated  at  between  65  and  88  percent  of  popu- 
lation in  1988;  remainder  practiced  traditional  African  religions. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Eight-year  course  compulsory  until  age 
fifteen,  but  enrollment  severely  disrupted  by  insurgency.  Separate 
school  system  in  rebel-controlled  areas.  Overall  literacy  rate  about 
20  percent  in  1987. 

Health  and  Welfare:  Very  poor  health  care  because  of  years  of 
insurgency.  High  prevalence  of  infectious  diseases;  20,000  to  50,000 
amputees.  Large  number  of  foreign,  especially  Cuban,  medical  per- 
sonnel in  country.  Life  expectancy  in  1987  forty-one  for  males  and 
forty-four  for  females. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Approximately  US$4.7  billion 
in  1987;  US$600  per  capita. 


xvi 


Extractive  Industries:  Oil  most  important  sector  of  economy.  Con- 
tributed 30  percent  of  GDP  in  1985.  Concentrated  in  areas  off- 
shore of  Cabinda  Province.  Diamond  mining  in  northeast  disrupted 
by  fighting. 

Agriculture:  In  steep  decline  as  result  of  insurgency.  Contributed 
only  9  percent  of  GDP  in  1985.  Coffee  principal  export  crop. 

Manufacturing:  Stagnant  in  late  1980s  because  of  insurgency  and 
lack  of  spare  parts.  Contributed  16  percent  of  GDP  in  1985.  Main 
industries  food  processing,  construction,  and  textiles. 

Exports:  Oil  revenue  nearly  90  percent  of  total  export  earnings 
in  1988. 

Imports:  Foodstuffs,  military  equipment,  and  inputs  to  petrole- 
um industry  most  important  imports. 

Currency:  In  December  1988,  official  rate  of  kwanza  was  Kz29.3 
to  US$1,  but  United  States  dollar  traded  on  parallel  market  at  up 
to  Kz2,100. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Railroads:  Three  lines  with  total  of  3,075  kilometers  of  track  ran 
from  coast  to  hinterland.  Benguela  Railway,  longest  line,  severely 
damaged  by  insurgency. 

Roads:  Total  of  about  70,000  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which  8,000 
kilometers  paved. 

Ports:  Three  major  ports  (Luanda,  Lobito,  and  Namibe)  and  sever- 
al smaller  terminals. 

Inland  Waterways:  Nearly  1,300  kilometers  of  navigable  rivers. 

Airports:  International  airport  at  Luanda;  thirteen  other  major 
airports. 

Telecommunications:  Fairly  reliable  system  included  microwave, 
troposcatter,  and  satellite  links. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Marxist-Leninist  government  based  on  1975  Con- 
stitution (later  revised)  but  dominated  by  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola- Workers'  Party  (Movimento  Popular  de 


xvii 


Libertagao  de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho — MPLA-PT).  Govern- 
ment composed  of  executive  branch  led  by  president,  who  appointed 
Council  of  Ministers  and  Defense  and  Security  Council.  Legisla- 
tive branch  consisted  of  People's  Assembly.  As  of  late  1988,  be- 
cause of  inability  to  hold  elections,  People's  Assembly  had  been 
appointed.  Justice  system  composed  of  Supreme  Court,  Court  of 
Appeals,  people's  revolutionary  courts,  and  series  of  people's 
courts. 

Politics:  Real  power  resided  with  MPLA-PT,  whose  chairman 
was  president  of  republic.  Political  Bureau  most  important  body 
in  party.  Central  Committee,  although  subordinate  to  MPLA- 
PT  party  congress,  wielded  greater  influence  over  party  policies. 
No  legal  opposition  parties,  but  beginning  in  1976  National  Un- 
ion for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para 
a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA)  waged  devastating 
insurgency  from  bases  in  southeast  and  elsewhere. 

Foreign  Relations:  Government  relied  on  Soviet  Union  and  its 
allies,  especially  Cuba,  for  military  support.  United  States  and  other 
Western  nations  played  important  economic  roles.  South  Africa, 
which  has  supported  UNITA,  most  important  regional  threat. 
December  1988  regional  accords  with  South  Africa  and  Cuba — 
which  provided  for  cessation  of  South  African  support  for  UNI- 
TA, withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops  from  Angola,  and  independence 
for  Namibia — may  change  complexion  of  regional  politics  and  for- 
eign relations. 

International  Organizations:  Member  of  African  Development 
Bank,  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (observer  status), 
Customs  Cooperation  Council,  Group  of  77,  International  Tele- 
communications Satellite  Organization,  Nonaligned  Movement, 
Organization  of  African  Unity,  Southern  African  Development 
Coordination  Conference,  United  Nations  and  its  agencies,  and 
World  Federation  of  Trade  Unions. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Active-duty  strength  consisted  of  army  of  91,500, 
air  and  air  defense  force  of  7,000,  and  navy  of  1,500;  reserve  per- 
sonnel of  50,000.  At  end  of  1988,  armed  forces  supported  by  nearly 
50,000  Cuban  troops  and  a  few  thousand  Soviet  and  East  German 
advisers.  Army  supported  by  50,000-member  Directorate  of  Peo- 
ple's Defense  and  Territorial  Troops,  a  kind  of  reserve  militia.  Two 
years  of  universal  and  compulsory  conscription. 


xvin 


Combat  Units  and  Major  Equipment:  Army  organized  into  more 
than  seventy  brigades  in  ten  military  regions.  Operated  about  1 , 100 
Soviet-manufactured  tanks  and  armored  fighting  vehicles.  Air  force 
organized  into  three  regiments  (fighter-bomber,  transport,  and 
helicopter).  Combat  aircraft  included  MiG-23  and  MiG-21  fight- 
ers. Navy  used  three  ports  and  had  guided  missile  fast  patrol  boats 
and  torpedo  boats. 

Military  Budget:  Amounted  to  US$1.3  billion  in  1986  (in  con- 
stant 1980  dollars) — more  than  40  percent  of  government  expen- 
ditures and  about  30  percent  of  GNP. 

Paramilitary  and  Internal  Security  Forces:  Largest  group  was 
People's  Vigilance  Brigades,  a  lightly  armed  citizens'  militia  with 
strength  of  from  800,000  to  1.5  million.  In  1988  about  7,000  border 
guards  and  8,000  police  officers  (supported  by  force  of  10,000). 


xix 


-6 


^abinda 

Mbanz^Congo 

ZAIRE  ,  J  ,  V 
|         r  UIGE 

_J} .  Uige  .         /  ~K 

^~  J     ■'  ""V  J 

L"a"£aJ^  (norte/ 

BENGO   \ '        '   \  ■ 

^^^;^^5^::l         '  MALANZE  S 

CUANZA  \ 

Atlantic  \SumbeULl  '  > 
.  BIE 


—  •  •  —  International  boundary 

—  •  —  Province  boundary 
®  National  capital 

ZAIRE  Province 

•  Province  capital 


100 


100 


200J<ilometers 
200  Mil 


1 


LUND  A 
NORTE 


Lucapa 


) 


\ 


*Saurimo 
LUND  A 
SUL 


-12 


Benguela 


h 


f  i 


■^UaTb°l  Kuito 
hi  U AM  BO, 
BENGUELA^_  ~- 

•  u 

HUILA 


/ 


*Luena 
MOXICO 


A 


\ 


'  Lubango 


r 


Namibe 

\NAMIBE'  .  /  ^ 

rv  CUNENE 

^  Ondjiva 


\ 


•  Menongue  \  .   % 

CUANDO 
CUBANGO 


\ 


1 


-J 


12 


12- 


24 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Angola,  1988 


xx 


Introduction 


AN  IMPORTANT  SYMBOLIC  EPISODE  in  the  course  of  Ango- 
lan history  took  place  on  June  22,  1989,  in  the  remote  Zairian  town 
of  Gbadolite.  On  that  date,  Angolan  president  Jose  Eduardo  dos 
Santos  shook  the  hand  of  Jonas  Savimbi,  leader  of  the  anti- 
government  movement,  the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Indepen- 
dence of  Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de 
Angola — UNITA).  This  friendly  gesture  occurred  at  the  end  of 
a  meeting  attended  by  representatives  from  seventeen  African 
nations  and  held  under  the  auspices  of  Zairian  president  Mobutu 
Sese  Seko.  Accompanying  the  handshake  was  a  communique  call- 
ing for  a  cease-fire  between  government  forces  and  UNITA  rebels, 
national  reconciliation,  and  direct  negotiations;  specific  provisions 
were  to  be  arranged  later.  But  like  many  other  incidents  in  Ango- 
lan history,  this  promising  event  soon  became  a  disappointment 
as  the  parties  failed  to  make  progress  along  the  path  to  peace.  And 
so,  scarcely  two  months  after  the  so-called  Gbadolite  Declaration, 
UNITA  announced  the  end  to  the  cease-fire.  As  the  internal  tur- 
moil resumed,  Angolans  once  again  became  victims  in  a  civil  war 
that  by  1989  had  lasted  for  fourteen  years. 

Clearly,  turmoil,  victimization,  and  disappointment  are  themes 
that  have  pervaded  Angola's  history,  especially  since  the  arrival 
of  Europeans  in  the  fifteenth  century.  Although  the  Portuguese 
crown  initially  sent  to  Angola  teachers  to  educate  and  priests  to 
proselytize,  Portugal  eventually  came  to  view  the  area  mainly  as 
a  source  for  slaves,  especially  for  Brazil,  its  colony  across  the  Atiantic 
Ocean.  In  the  several  centuries  during  which  the  slave  trade 
flourished,  scholars  estimate  that  4  million  Africans  from  the  Angola 
region  were  taken  into  slavery.  Of  this  number,  perhaps  half  died 
before  reaching  the  New  World. 

During  its  five  centuries  of  colonization,  Portugal  treated  Angola 
mostly  with  indifference  or  hostility.  Although  Angolans  were  often 
responsible  for  enslaving  other  Africans,  Portuguese  traders  provid- 
ed the  impetus  and  the  market  for  slaving.  By  raising  small  armies, 
Portuguese  fought  their  way  into  Angola's  interior,  disrupting  as 
they  went  kingdoms  having  sophisticated  civilizations.  Less  allur- 
ing to  Portuguese  setders  than  Brazil,  Angola  generally  attracted 
poorer  immigrants,  a  great  many  of  whom  were  degredados  (see  Glos- 
sary), or  exiled  convicts.  Portugal's  exploitation  of  Angola  did  not 
cease  even  after  slavery  had  been  legally  abolished  in  Angola  in 
1858.  Lisbon  spent  the  last  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  engaged 


xxi 


in  wars  against  the  African  kingdoms  that  it  had  not  yet  conquered 
and  in  consolidating  its  hold  on  territories  awarded  to  it  at  the  Berlin 
Conference  of  1884  during  the  so-called  scramble  for  Africa. 

In  the  twentieth  century,  and  particularly  after  1926  and  Antonio 
Salazar's  rise  to  power  in  Portugal,  Lisbon  exploited  Angola's 
agricultural  and  mineral  wealth.  Salazar  facilitated  this  exploita- 
tion by  inducing  greater  numbers  of  Portuguese  to  settle  in  Angola 
to  manage  plantations  and  mines  and  by  enacting  labor  laws  that 
forced  Angolans  to  work  for  Portuguese.  He  also  ensured  that  Afri- 
cans could  not  easily  participate  in  or  benefit  from  the  colonial 
administration. 

In  the  1950s  and  1960s,  as  most  other  African  colonies  were  win- 
ning their  independence,  many  Angolans,  especially  educated  mes- 
tigos  (see  Glossary)  and  assimilados  (see  Glossary),  came  to  resent 
the  continued  oppressiveness  of  the  Salazar  regime,  which  stead - 
fastiy  refused  to  consider  granting  independence  to  its  African  hold- 
ings. As  a  consequence,  in  the  early  months  of  1961  a  rebellion 
erupted  in  the  northern  part  of  the  colony.  This  event  sounded  the 
opening  shots  of  Angola's  war  of  liberation,  a  conflict  that  dragged 
on  until  1974.  In  that  year,  a  military  coup  d'etat  in  Lisbon  top- 
pled the  government  of  Marcello  Caetano  (who  had  replaced  Salazar 
in  1968).  The  generals  who  assumed  power  had  fought  the  anti- 
colonialists  in  Africa  and  were  weary  of  that  battle.  And  so,  soon 
after  the  coup  they  announced  plans  for  the  independence  of  all 
of  Portugal's  African  possessions. 

Unlike  other  Portuguese  African  colonies,  the  transition  to 
independence  in  Angola  did  not  proceed  smoothly.  During  the 
1960s  and  1970s,  the  three  most  important  liberation  movements 
were  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Movi- 
mento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — MPLA),  the  National 
Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional  de  Liberta- 
cao de  Angola — FNLA),  and  UNITA.  When  these  groups  could 
not  resolve  peacefully  their  differences  about  the  leadership  and 
structure  of  a  unified  government,  they  turned  their  guns  on  each 
other;  the  FNLA  and  UNITA  eventually  formed  a  loose  coalition 
to  oppose  the  MPLA,  the  movement  that  finally  prevailed.  The 
subsequent  chaos,  however,  induced  most  Portuguese  to  repatri- 
ate, leaving  Angola  critically  deficient  in  skilled  professionals  such 
as  managers,  teachers,  and  technicians. 

The  resultant  civil  war  had  domestic,  regional,  and  international 
dimensions.  Domestically,  the  movements  tended  to  be  divided 
along  ethnic  lines:  the  MPLA  came  to  be  identified  with  the 
Mbundu,  the  FNLA  with  the  Bakongo,  and  UNITA  with  the 
Ovimbundu.  In  the  late  1980s,  ethnicity  was  still  a  sensitive  issue. 


xxn 


Regionally,  Zaire  came  to  the  aid  of  the  FNLA  by  supplying  bases 
and  some  combat  troops.  South  Africa,  concerned  about  communist 
expansion  in  southern  Africa,  invaded  Angola  from  neighboring 
Namibia.  Internationally,  the  Soviet  Union  backed  the  MP  LA  with 
materiel  and  advisers,  while  Cuba  supplied  thousands  of  combat 
troops.  The  United  States  sided  with  the  FNLA  by  providing  finan- 
cial assistance  and  by  helping  to  hire  mercenaries. 

By  mid- 1976  most  of  the  fighting  had  died  down.  The  South 
Africans  had  withdrawn,  and,  for  the  most  part,  the  FNLA  and 
UNIT  A  had  been  routed,  thanks  primarily  to  the  effectiveness  of 
Cuban  forces.  Consequently,  the  MPLA  was  able  to  legitimize  its 
claim  of  control  over  the  government.  Nonetheless,  despite  its 
legitimization  and  the  recognition  of  its  claim  by  most  African  states 
and  many  other  countries  and  international  organizations,  the 
MPLA  still  was  confronted  with  an  insurgency.  Leading  this 
insurgency  from  the  southeast  part  of  the  country  was  Savimbi's 
UNITA,  which  had  regrouped  with  the  assistance  of  South  Africa, 
and,  after  1985,  with  aid  from  the  United  States.  By  1989  this  con- 
flict, which  many  believed  was  merely  an  extension  of  the  civil  war, 
had  claimed  an  estimated  60,000  to  90,000  lives,  had  exacted 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  casualties,  and  had  forced  about  700,000 
people  from  their  homes. 

During  the  1980s,  the  strains  of  the  conflict  were  everywhere 
apparent.  A  significant  portion  of  Angola's  young  populace  (median 
age  17.5  years  in  1988),  estimated  at  8.2  million  in  1988,  was  mov- 
ing westward  away  from  the  principal  battiegrounds.  Between  1975 
and  1987,  cities  such  as  Luanda,  Huambo,  and  Benguela  witnessed 
an  almost  unchecked  population  explosion.  But  as  the  cities  filled, 
the  countryside  emptied.  The  consequences  of  this  rural- to-urban 
migration  were  devastating  to  the  nation's  welfare.  The  cities  were 
unable  to  absorb  such  masses  so  quickly;  the  government  could 
not  provide  adequate  services,  such  as  medical  care  and  educa- 
tion; and  jobs  and  housing  were  in  short  supply.  Most  important, 
with  agricultural  workers  leaving  their  farms,  the  cities  could  not 
obtain  enough  food  for  their  residents.  By  the  late  1980s,  Angola, 
once  a  food  exporter,  was  importing  more  than  half  of  its  grain 
requirements.  Moreover,  thousands  of  those  who  could  not  reach 
cities  settled  in  displaced  persons  camps,  many  of  which  were  funded 
and  operated  by  international  relief  organizations.  Unrecorded  as 
of  1989  were  the  psychological  effects  on  the  populace  of  leaving 
the  relatively  stable,  traditional  environment  of  the  country  for  the 
uncertain,  modern  society  of  the  city. 

Exacerbating  these  demographic  strains  was  the  economy's  poor 
performance  in  the  1980s  in  relation  to  its  vast  potential.  The 


xxiii 


production  of  coffee,  sisal,  sugar,  iron  ore,  and  diamonds  either 
declined  or  stagnated.  Furthermore,  the  closure  by  UNITA  insur- 
gents of  the  Benguela  Railway,  which  linked  the  rich  mining  regions 
of  Zaire  and  Zambia  with  Atlantic  ports,  denied  transit  fees  to  the 
government.  As  a  result,  the  economy  became  almost  exclusively 
dependent  on  petroleum.  Production  of  oil  had  begun  in  1956,  and 
by  the  late  1980s,  with  the  financial  and  technical  assistance  of 
Western  companies,  oil  sales  accounted  for  nearly  90  percent  of 
export  earnings.  Most  Angolans,  however,  failed  to  benefit  from 
these  earnings.  To  finance  the  war  against  UNITA,  the  govern- 
ment in  1986  allocated  more  than  40  percent  of  its  budget  to  defense 
expenditures,  leaving  relatively  little  for  pressing  social  needs. 

Several  other  factors  contributed  to  economic  weaknesses.  First, 
because  of  the  lack  of  foreign  exchange,  imported  consumer  goods 
were  scarce,  especially  in  state-run  stores.  This  scarcity  generated 
a  widespread  parallel  market  in  which  goods  were  frequently  bar- 
tered rather  than  sold  because  Angola's  unit  of  currency,  the  kwanza 
(for  value  of  the  kwanza — see  Glossary),  was  virtually  worthless. 
And  because  of  commodity  shortages,  graft  and  pilfering  (partic- 
ularly at  points  of  entry)  became  government  concerns.  National 
production  also  suffered  because  industrial  workers  and  agricul- 
tural laborers  were  reluctant  to  work  for  kwanzas;  as  a  result  of 
the  shortage  of  goods,  the  government  often  could  not  even  barter 
for  the  services  of  workers  or  the  output  of  farmers. 

The  UNITA  insurgency  and  its  associated  disruptions  notwith- 
standing, the  government  itself  was  responsible  for  some  economic 
ills.  Critics  of  the  government  claimed  that  mismanagement  in  cen- 
tralized planning,  state-run  companies,  and  state-owned  farms  con- 
tributed significantly  to  the  nation's  economic  decline.  The 
government,  in  fact,  seemed  to  agree  in  1987,  at  which  time  Presi- 
dent dos  Santos  announced  plans  to  restructure  the  economy, 
calling  for  greater  commercial  liberalization  and  privatization  of 
enterprise. 

But  while  the  government  was  willing  to  concede  the  economic 
shortcomings  of  Marxism-Leninism,  it  was  resolutely  opposed  to 
accepting  the  notion  of  sweeping  changes  in  political  ideology.  Since 
the  First  Party  Congress  in  December  1977,  when  the  MPLA 
became  a  "workers'  party"  and  added  "PT"  (for  Partido  de 
Trabalho)  to  its  acronym,  Angola's  leadership  had  followed  a  course 
that  some  observers  have  described  as  "Moscow  oriented."  Despite 
this  characterization  and  the  fact  that  Angola's  enmeshed  party- 
government  structure  resembled  that  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  dos 
Santos  regime  was  notably  more  moderate  than  the  regime  of  his 
predecessor,  Agostinho  Neto.  In  the  late  1980s,  however,  political 


xxiv 


power  remained  in  the  hands  of  dos  Santos  and  his  small  inner 
circle. 

For  the  most  part,  Angola's  goal  of  installing  a  functioning  so- 
cialist state  had  not  been  attained.  Although  millions  of  Angolans 
had  been  mobilized  into  mass  organizations  or  defense  forces,  po- 
litical debate  was  narrowly  constrained.  The  party,  with  a  mem- 
bership of  only  about  45,000,  dominated  the  government.  As  of 
1989,  the  People's  Assembly — nominally  the  highest  state  organ — 
was  largely  an  appointed  body,  unrepresentative  of  the  constituents 
it  was  designed  to  serve.  Likewise,  the  MPLA-PT  was  controlled 
primarily  by  the  eleven-member  Political  Bureau  (led  by  its  chair- 
man, dos  Santos)  and  secondarily  by  the  Central  Committee;  the 
party  congress,  the  MPLA-PT 's  theoretical  supreme  body,  in  prac- 
tice was  subordinate  to  the  other  organs.  In  addition,  reflecting 
the  nation's  precarious  security  situation,  many  serving  in  party 
and  government  positions  were  military  officers. 

Angola's  foreign  relations  wavered  in  the  1980s.  Within  black 
Africa,  Luanda's  relations  with  other  states  generally  were  good. 
Those  with  Zaire,  however,  fluctuated  from  normal  to  poor  be- 
cause of  Kinshasa's  sponsorship  during  the  1970s  of  the  FNLA  and 
because  of  Angola's  support  during  the  same  period  of  an  anti- 
Mobutu  armed  movement.  In  addition,  although  Zaire  denied  aid- 
ing UNITA,  most  observers  agreed  that  during  the  1980s  Kinshasa 
allowed  Zairian  territory  to  be  used  to  support  Savimbi's  move- 
ment, creating  another  bone  of  contention  between  the  two  neigh- 
bors. Angola's  principal  antagonist  in  the  region,  however,  was 
not  Zaire  but  South  Africa.  Since  its  invasion  of  Angola  in  1975 
and  1976  during  the  war  of  independence,  Pretoria  has  frequently 
violated  Luanda's  sovereignty,  either  in  pursuit  of  members  of  the 
South  West  Africa  People's  Organization  (SWAPO — a  group  fight- 
ing for  Namibian  independence)  or  in  support  of  UNITA  forces. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Angola's  ties  to  the  superpowers  were  in  a  state 
of  flux.  Although  Luanda  was  closely  aligned  with  the  Soviet  Union 
and  its  allies,  this  relationship  generally  was  considered  an  out- 
growth of  Angola's  security  predicament.  In  economic  concerns, 
the  MPLA-PT  often  turned  to  the  West,  particularly  in  matters 
relating  to  the  oil  sector  but  also  for  trade  and  commerce  and  in 
other  areas.  Reportedly,  the  Soviet  Union  prodded  the  Angolan 
government  into  participating  in  the  December  1988  regional 
accords,  but  in  late  1989  it  was  uncertain  how  the  reforms  being 
carried  out  in  the  Soviet  Union  under  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  would 
affect  the  policies  and  practices  of  the  MPLA-PT  government.  The 
other  superpower,  the  United  States,  also  played  an  important 
role  in  the  accords.  After  their  signing,  however,  United  States 


xxv 


president  George  P.  Bush  affirmed  American  support  for  the 
UNITA  rebels  and  vowed  to  continue  backing  Savimbi's  move- 
ment until  the  MPLA-PT  and  UNITA  reached  an  accommo- 
dation. 

The  MPLA's  independence  struggle  and  subsequent  conflict  with 
UNITA  and  South  Africa  compelled  the  government  to  develop 
the  People's  Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Forcas 
Armadas  Populares  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FAPLA).  Compris- 
ing a  ground  force,  air  and  air  defense  force,  and  navy,  FAPLA 
was  one  of  the  largest  and  most  heavily  armed  militaries  in  Afri- 
ca. In  1988  experts  estimated  its  strength  at  100,000  active-duty 
personnel,  50,000  reservists,  and  many  hundreds  of  thousands  more 
in  a  variety  of  militias  and  internal  security  units.  Bolstering  this 
force  in  the  late  1980s  were  about  50,000  Cuban  troops,  who 
provided  logistical  and  combat  support. 

FAPLA  was  armed  and  trained  by  the  Soviet  Union  and  its 
allies.  Its  major  equipment  included  MiG-21  and  MiG-23  aircraft, 
T-62  and  T-72  main  battle  tanks,  and  an  assortment  of  air  defense, 
field  artillery,  and  naval  assets.  Although  this  arsenal  and  the 
assistance  of  Cuban  troops  and  Soviet  and  East  European  ad- 
visers had  prevented  a  UNITA  victory,  by  1988  Luanda  had 
incurred  an  external  debt  estimated  at  almost  US$4  billion,  most 
of  which  was  owed  to  Moscow  for  military  materiel  and  assis- 
tance. 

In  late  1989,  Angola's  economic  and  political  prospects  appeared 
less  bleak  than  they  had  only  a  year  or  two  earlier.  The  economic 
restructuring  program,  together  with  other  austerity  measures,  con- 
vinced the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  to 
admit  Angola  as  a  member  in  June  1989  (over  the  objection  of  the 
United  States).  This  event  opened  the  door  for  greater  financial 
assistance.  Furthermore,  the  December  1988  regional  accords, 
which  provided  for  the  staged  withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops,  the  ces- 
sation of  South  African  support  for  UNITA,  and  the  independence 
of  Namibia,  augured  well  for  Angola's  future.  Observers  reasoned 
that  as  the  Cuban  troops  departed  (and  by  mid- 1989  more  than 
10,000  had  left),  Luanda's  payments  to  Havana  for  military  aid 
would  drop;  with  South  Africa's  cutoff  of  support  to  UNITA,  that 
organization's  ability  to  disrupt  the  economy  would  decline  and 
perhaps  push  it  closer  to  accepting  a  peace  plan;  and  with  indepen- 
dence for  Namibia,  the  threat  of  South  African  aggression  would 
diminish  substantially.  Carrying  this  logic  one  step  further,  reporters 
argued  that  if  the  peace  process  begun  at  Gbadolite  in  June  1989 
could  be  revitalized  and  an  agreement  between  the  MPLA-PT  and 


xxvi 


UNITA  achieved,  Angolans  stood  a  chance  of  reversing  the  pat- 
tern of  turmoil,  victimization,  and  disappointment  that  had  plagued 
the  country  for  the  previous  500  years. 

October  18,  1989 

*    *  * 

A  few  significant  events  occurred  in  Angola  after  the  comple- 
tion of  the  research  and  writing  of  this  manuscript.  By  mid- 1990 
it  became  clear  that  Angola,  Cuba,  and  South  Africa,  the  signato- 
ries of  the  December  1988  regional  accords,  were  intent  on  faith- 
fully executing  the  provisions  of  the  agreement.  Since  the  signing, 
more  than  37,000  Cuban  troops  had  departed  Angola,  and  the 
remaining  13,000  Cubans,  most  of  whom  were  stationed  near 
Luanda,  were  to  be  brought  home  by  mid- 1991.  As  promised, 
South  African  forces  withdrew  from  Angolan  territory,  and  Pretoria 
ceased  aid  to  UNITA.  Finally,  Namibia  held  elections  and,  as 
planned,  celebrated  its  independence  on  March  21,  1990. 

These  positive  developments  notwithstanding,  most  Angolans 
enjoyed  little  improvement  in  their  quality  of  life,  and,  for  many, 
conditions  deteriorated.  The  primary  reason  for  this  decline  was 
that  the  MPLA-PT  and  UNITA  had  failed  to  make  much  progress 
on  the  path  to  peace.  Each  side  of  the  dispute  held  a  different 
interpretation  of  the  Gbadolite  Declaration.  Analysts  suggested  that 
Mobutu,  the  mediator  of  the  Gbadolite  talks,  may  have  presented 
varying  versions  of  the  agreement  to  each  side.  In  any  case,  warfare 
persisted  from  mid- 1989  to  mid- 1990  as  FAPLA  and  UNITA  troops 
batded  each  other  for  control  of  the  southeastern  town  of  Mavinga. 
Government  forces  captured  the  town  in  early  February  1990,  but 
intense  fighting  continued  in  the  region  for  several  months.  Fol- 
lowing a  heavy  engagement,  FAPLA  retreated  from  Mavinga  in 
early  May,  and  UNITA  reoccupied  it. 

In  addition  to  the  combat  that  raged  in  Angola's  southeast, 
UNITA  reportedly  made  inroads  in  the  country's  northwest.  This 
success  allegedly  was  accomplished  through  Zairian  operational  sup- 
port and  United  States  assistance.  According  to  some  sources,  the 
Zairian  government  was  resupplying  UNITA  forces  there  via  cargo 
flights  from  Kinshasa.  The  United  States,  using  this  Zairian  air 
bridge,  reportedly  provided  UNITA  with  materiel  and  other 
assistance  worth  an  estimated  US$45  million  to  US$60  million 
annually.  By  mid- 1990  UNITA  forces  sabotaged  water  facilities 
and  electric  power  lines  to  Luanda  and  generally  disrupted  the  eco- 
nomic life  of  the  nation. 


xxvn 


Despite  the  on- going  military  situation,  there  appeared  to  be  some 
softening  of  political  positions.  In  April  1990,  government  and 
UNITA  representatives  met  in  Portugal  for  negotiations.  As  a 
result,  UNITA  recognized  the  Angolan  state  with  President  dos 
Santos  as  its  head.  UNITA,  however,  also  called  for  the  replace- 
ment of  the  single-party  state  with  a  multiparty  government  chosen 
in  free  elections.  Observers  saw  a  coincidence  of  interests  here 
because  the  MPLA-PT  had  pledged  to  hold  elections  in  which  non- 
party candidates — including  members  of  UNITA — could  run  for 
seats  in  the  People's  Assembly.  The  single-party  versus  multiparty 
issue  was  to  be  debated  at  the  Third  Party  Congress,  scheduled 
for  December  1990. 

Regardless  of  the  outcome  of  this  congress,  however,  observers 
believed  that  UNITA' s  battlefield  successes  might  encourage 
Savimbi  to  hold  out  for  a  total  military  solution.  With  the  con- 
tinued United  States  commitment  to  UNITA,  at  the  same  time 
that  Cuban  troops  were  withdrawing  and  the  Soviet  Union's  interest 
in  supporting  the  MPLA-PT  government  was  weakening,  some 
analysts  reasoned  that  a  UNITA  victory  in  Angola,  whether  on 
the  battlefield  or  at  the  polls,  was  merely  a  question  of  time. 


September  9,  1990  Thomas  Collelo 


XXVlll 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


A  village  near  Pungo  Andongo,  formerly  Pungu-a-Ndondong, 
the  capital  of  the  Ndongo  Kingdom  in  the  sixteenth  century 


IN  NOVEMBER  1975,  after  nearly  five  centuries  as  a  Portuguese 
colony,  Angola  became  an  independent  state.  By  late  1988,  how- 
ever, despite  fertile  land,  large  deposits  of  oil  and  gas,  and  great 
mineral  wealth,  Angola  had  achieved  neither  prosperity  nor 
peace — the  national  economy  was  stagnating  and  warfare  was 
ravaging  the  countryside.  True  independence  also  remained  un- 
realized as  foreign  powers  continued  to  determine  Angola's  future. 

But  unattained  potential  and  instability  were  hardships  well 
known  to  the  Angolan  people.  They  had  suffered  the  outrage  of 
slavery  and  the  indignity  of  forced  labor  and  had  experienced  years 
of  turmoil  going  back  to  the  early  days  of  the  indigenous  kingdoms. 

The  ancestors  of  most  present-day  Angolans  found  their  way  to 
the  region  long  before  the  first  Portuguese  arrived  in  the  late 
fifteenth  century.  The  development  of  indigenous  states,  such  as 
the  Kongo  Kingdom,  was  well  under  way  before  then.  The  primary 
objective  of  the  first  Portuguese  settlers  in  Angola,  and  the  motive 
behind  most  of  their  explorations,  was  the  establishment  of  a  slave 
trade.  Although  several  early  Portuguese  explorers  recognized  the 
economic  and  strategic  advantages  of  establishing  friendly  relations 
with  the  leaders  of  the  kingdoms  in  the  Angolan  interior,  by  the 
middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  the  slave  trade  had  engendered  an 
enmity  between  the  Portuguese  and  the  Africans  that  persisted  until 
independence. 

Most  of  the  Portuguese  who  settled  in  Angola  through  the  nine- 
teenth century  were  exiled  criminals,  called  degredados  (see  Glos- 
sary), who  were  actively  involved  in  the  slave  trade  and  spread 
disorder  and  corruption  throughout  the  colony.  Because  of  the 
unscrupulous  behavior  of  the  degredados,  most  Angolan  Africans  soon 
came  to  despise  and  distrust  their  Portuguese  colonizers.  Those 
Portuguese  who  settled  in  Angola  in  the  early  twentieth  century 
were  peasants  who  had  fled  the  poverty  of  their  homeland  and  who 
tended  to  establish  themselves  in  Angolan  towns  in  search  of  a 
means  of  livelihood  other  than  agriculture.  In  the  process,  they 
squeezed  out  the  mestigos  (people  of  mixed  African  and  white  de- 
scent; see  Glossary)  and  urban  Africans  who  had  hitherto  played 
a  part  in  the  urban  economy.  In  general,  these  later  settlers  lacked 
capital,  education,  and  commitment  to  their  new  homelands. 

When  in  the  early  1930s  Antonio  Salazar  implemented  the  New 
State  (Estado  Novo)  in  Portugal,  Angola  was  expected  to  survive 
on  its  own.  Accordingly,  Portugal  neither  maintained  an  adequate 


3 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


social  and  economic  infrastructure  nor  invested  directly  in  long- 
term  development. 

Ideologically,  Portugal  maintained  that  increasing  the  density 
of  white  rural  settlement  in  Angola  was  a  means  of  "civilizing" 
the  African.  Generally,  the  Portuguese  regarded  Africans  as  in- 
ferior and  gave  them  few  opportunities  to  develop  either  in  terms 
of  their  own  cultures  or  in  response  to  the  market.  The  Portuguese 
also  discriminated  politically,  socially,  and  economically  against 
assimilados  (see  Glossary) — those  Africans  who,  by  acquiring  a  cer- 
tain level  of  education  and  a  mode  of  life  similar  to  that  of  Euro- 
peans, were  entitled  to  become  citizens  of  Portugal.  Those  few 
Portuguese  officials  and  others  who  called  attention  to  the  mistreat- 
ment of  Africans  were  largely  ignored  or  silenced  by  the  colonial 
governments. 

By  the  1950s,  African-led  or  mestigo-\ed  associations  with  explicit 
political  goals  began  to  spring  up  in  Angola.  The  authoritarian  Sala- 
zar  regime  forced  these  movements  and  their  leaders  to  operate 
in  exile.  By  the  early  1960s,  however,  political  groups  were  suffi- 
ciently organized  (if  also  divided  by  ethnic  loyalties  and  personal 
animosities)  to  begin  their  drives  for  independence.  Moreover,  at 
least  some  segments  of  the  African  population  had  been  so  strongly 
affected  by  the  loss  of  land,  forced  labor,  and  stresses  produced 
by  a  declining  economy  that  they  were  ready  to  rebel  on  their  own. 
The  result  was  a  series  of  violent  events  in  urban  and  rural  areas 
that  marked  the  beginning  of  a  long  and  often  ineffective  armed 
struggle  for  independence. 

To  continue  its  political  and  economic  control  over  the  colony, 
Portugal  was  prepared  to  use  whatever  military  means  were  neces- 
sary. In  1974  the  Portuguese  army,  tired  of  warfare  not  only  in 
Angola  but  in  Portugal's  other  African  colonies,  overthrew  the  Lis- 
bon regime.  The  new  regime  left  Angola  to  its  own  devices — in 
effect,  abandoning  it  to  the  three  major  anticolonial  movements. 

Ideological  differences  and  rivalry  among  their  leaderships  divid- 
ed these  movements.  Immediately  following  independence  in  1975, 
civil  war  erupted  between  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Angola  (Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — 
MPLA)  on  the  one  hand  and  the  National  Front  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA) 
and  the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola 
(Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA) 
on  the  other  hand.  The  MPLA  received  support  from  the  Soviet 
Union  and  Cuba,  while  the  FNLA  turned  to  the  United  States. 
UNITA,  unable  to  gain  more  than  nominal  support  from  China, 
turned  to  South  Africa.  Viewing  the  prospect  of  a  Soviet- sponsored 


4 


Historical  Setting 


MPLA  government  with  alarm,  South  Africa  invaded  Angola.  The 
Soviet  and  Cuban  reaction  was  swift:  the  former  provided  the 
logistical  support,  and  the  latter  provided  troops.  By  the  end  of 
1976,  the  MPLA,  under  the  leadership  of  Agostinho  Neto,  was 
in  firm  control  of  the  government.  Members  of  UNITA  retreated 
to  the  bush  to  wage  a  guerrilla  war  against  the  MPLA  government, 
while  the  FNLA  became  increasingly  ineffective  in  the  north  in 
the  late  1970s. 

The  MPLA,  which  in  1977  had  declared  itself  a  Marxist- Leninist 
vanguard  party,  faced  the  task  of  restoring  the  agricultural  and 
production  sectors  that  nearly  had  been  destroyed  with  the  de- 
parture of  the  Portuguese.  Recognizing  that  traditional  Marxist- 
Leninist  policies  of  large-scale  expropriation  and  state  ownership 
would  undermine  redevelopment  efforts,  Neto  permitted  private 
involvement  in  commercial  and  small-scale  industry  and  developed 
substantial  economic  relations  with  Western  states,  especially  in 
connection  with  Angola's  oil  industry. 

After  Neto's  death  in  1979,  Jose  Eduardo  dos  Santos  inherited 
considerable  economic  difficulties,  including  the  enormous  mili- 
tary costs  required  to  fight  UNITA  and  South  African  forces.  By 
the  end  of  1985,  the  security  of  the  Luanda  regime  depended  almost 
entirely  on  Soviet-supplied  weaponry  and  Cuban  troop  support. 
Consequently,  in  the  late  1980s  Luanda's  two  main  priorities  were 
to  end  the  UNITA  insurgency  and  to  make  progress  toward  eco- 
nomic development.  By  late  1988,  a  United  States- sponsored  peace 
agreement  held  out  some  hope  that,  given  time,  both  priorities  could 
be  achieved. 

Precolonial  Angola  and  the  Arrival  of  the  Portuguese 

Although  the  precolonial  history  of  many  parts  of  Africa  has  been 
carefully  researched  and  preserved,  there  is  relatively  little  infor- 
mation on  the  region  that  forms  contemporary  Angola  as  it  was 
before  the  arrival  of  the  Europeans  in  the  late  1400s.  The  coloniz- 
ers of  Angola,  the  Portuguese,  did  not  study  the  area  as  thorough- 
ly as  British,  French,  and  German  scholars  researched  their  colonial 
empires.  The  Portuguese,  in  fact,  were  more  concerned  with  record- 
ing the  past  of  their  own  people  in  Angola  than  with  the  history 
of  the  indigenous  populations. 

The  limited  information  that  is  available  indicates  that  the  original 
inhabitants  of  present-day  Angola  were  hunters  and  gatherers.  Their 
descendants,  called  Bushmen  by  the  Europeans,  still  inhabit  por- 
tions of  southern  Africa,  and  small  numbers  of  them  may  still  be 
found  in  southern  Angola.  These  Khoisan  speakers  lost  their 
predominance  in  southern  Africa  as  a  result  of  the  southward  ex- 
pansion of  Bantu-speaking  peoples  during  the  first  millennium  A.D. 


5 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

The  Bantu  speakers  were  a  Negroid  people,  adept  at  farming, 
hunting,  and  gathering,  who  probably  began  their  migrations  from 
the  rain  forest  near  what  is  now  the  Nigeria-Cameroon  border. 
Bantu  expansion  was  carried  out  by  small  groups  that  made  a 
series  of  short  relocations  over  time  in  response  to  economic  or  po- 
litical conditions.  Some  historians  believe  that  the  Khoisan  speak- 
ers were  peacefully  assimilated  rather  than  conquered  by  the  Bantu. 
Others  contend  that  the  Khoisan,  because  of  their  passive  nature, 
simply  vacated  the  area  and  moved  south,  away  from  the  new- 
comers. 

In  either  case,  the  Bantu  settled  in  Angola  between  1300  and 
1600,  and  some  may  have  arrived  even  earlier.  The  Bantu  formed 
a  number  of  historically  important  kingdoms.  The  earliest  and 
perhaps  most  important  of  these  was  the  Kongo  Kingdom,  which 
arose  between  the  mid- 1300s  and  the  mid- 1400s  in  an  area  over- 
lapping the  present-day  border  between  Angola  and  Zaire  (see  fig. 
2).  Other  important  kingdoms  were  Ndongo,  located  to  the  south 
of  Kongo;  Matamba,  Kasanje,  and  Lunda,  located  east  of  Ndon- 
go; Bie,  Bailundu,  and  Ciyaka,  located  on  the  plateau  east  of  Ben- 
guela;  and  Kwanhama  (also  spelled  Kwanyama),  located  near  what 
is  now  the  border  between  Angola  and  Namibia.  Although  they 
did  not  develop  a  strong  central  government,  the  Chokwe  (also 
spelled  Cokwe)  established  a  significant  cultural  center  in  the  north- 
east of  present-day  Angola. 

The  precolonial  kingdoms  differed  in  area  and  the  number  of 
subjects  who  owed  allegiance,  however  nominal,  to  a  central 
authority.  The  kings  might  not  directly  control  more  land  or  peo- 
ple than  a  local  ruler,  but  they  were  generally  acknowledged  as 
paramount.  Kings  were  offered  tribute  and  were  believed  to  pos- 
sess substantial  religious  power  and  authority.  A  king's  actual  secu- 
lar power,  however,  was  determined  as  much  by  his  own  personal 
abilities  as  by  institutional  arrangements. 

The  African  kingdoms  tended  to  extend  their  lines  of  commu- 
nication inland,  away  from  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Until  the  arrival 
of  the  Europeans,  Africans  regarded  the  sea  as  a  barrier  to  trade. 
Although  the  sea  might  supply  salt  or  shells  that  could  be  used  as 
currency,  the  interior  held  the  promise  of  better  hunting,  farm- 
ing, mining,  and  trade. 

Kongo  Kingdom 

In  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century,  the  Kongo  Kingdom  was 
the  most  powerful  of  a  series  of  states  along  Africa's  west  coast 
known  as  the  Middle  Atlantic  kingdoms.  Kongo  evolved  in  the  late 
fourteenth  century  when  a  group  of  Bakongo  (Kongo  people) 


6 


Historical  Setting 


moved  south  of  the  Congo  River  into  northern  Angola,  conquer- 
ing the  people  they  found  there  and  establishing  Mbanza  Kongo 
(now  spelled  Mbanza  Congo),  the  capital  of  the  kingdom.  One  of 
the  reasons  for  the  success  of  the  Bakongo  was  their  willingness 
to  assimilate  the  inhabitants  they  conquered  rather  than  to  try  to 
become  their  overlords.  The  people  of  the  area  thus  gradually  be- 
came one  and  were  ruled  by  leaders  with  both  religious  and  politi- 
cal authority. 

By  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century,  the  manikongo  (Kongo  king) 
ruled  the  lands  of  northern  Angola  and  the  north  bank  of  the  Congo 
River  (present-day  Congo  and  Zaire).  Kongo  was  the  first  king- 
dom on  the  west  coast  of  central  Africa  to  come  into  contact  with 
Europeans.  The  earliest  such  contact  occurred  in  1483  when  the 
Portuguese  explorer  Diogo  Cao  reached  the  mouth  of  the  Congo 
River.  After  the  initial  landing,  Portugal  and  Kongo  exchanged 
emissaries,  so  that  each  kingdom  was  able  to  acquire  knowledge 
of  the  other.  Impressed  by  reports  from  his  returning  subjects,  Nzin- 
ga  Nkuwu,  the  manikongo,  asked  the  Portuguese  crown  for  mission- 
aries and  technical  assistance  in  exchange  for  ivory  and  other  goods. 

The  ruler  who  came  to  power  in  1506  took  a  Christian  name, 
Afonso.  He  too  admired  European  culture  and  science,  and  he 
called  on  Portugal  for  support  in  education,  military  matters,  and 
the  conversion  of  his  subjects  to  Christianity.  Many  historians,  in 
fact,  maintain  that  Afonso  behaved  more  like  a  ''Christian"  than 
most  of  his  teachers.  Afonso,  therefore,  soon  came  into  conflict  with 
Portuguese  bent  on  exploiting  Kongo  society.  The  most  insidious 
and  lasting  aspect  of  this  exploitation  was  the  slave  trade. 

Not  long  after  Afonso  became  king,  Portugal  began  to  turn  its 
attention  to  the  exploration  of  Asia  and  the  Americas.  As  Portu- 
gal's interest  in  another  of  its  colonies,  Brazil,  increased,  its  in- 
terest in  Africa  declined.  Over  time,  the  Portuguese  crown  came 
to  view  Kongo  primarily  as  a  source  of  slaves.  Slaves  were  used 
first  on  the  sugar  plantations  on  nearby  Portuguese-claimed  islands 
but  later  were  sent  mainly  to  Brazil.  Once  Kongo  was  opened  to 
the  slave  trade,  halting  or  limiting  it  became  impossible.  Afonso 's 
complaints  to  the  Portuguese  crown  about  the  effects  of  the  trade 
in  his  lands  were  largely  ignored.  By  the  1520s,  most  of  the  mis- 
sionaries had  returned  to  Portugal,  and  most  of  the  remaining  whites 
were  slave  traders  who  disregarded  the  authority  of  the  manikongo. 

In  addition  to  the  slave  trade,  Kongo  faced  other  challenges  in 
the  sixteenth  century.  After  the  death  of  Afonso  in  the  1540s,  the 
kingdom  endured  a  period  of  instability  that  culminated  in  an  up- 
heaval in  1568.  This  rebellion  was  long  attributed  by  Portuguese 
sources  and  others  to  the  invasion  by  a  group  of  unknown  origin 


7 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  2.  Major  Angolan  Kingdoms,  1200-1900 


8 


Historical  Setting 


called  the  Jaga.  Others,  however,  believed  that  the  attack  was  prob- 
ably launched  by  a  Bakongo  faction  opposed  to  the  king  that  may 
have  been  joined  or  aided  by  non-Bakongo  seeking  to  gain  control 
over  the  Kongo  slave  trade  and  other  trading  routes.  In  any  case, 
the  assault  on  the  capital  (which  had  been  renamed  Sao  Salvador) 
and  its  environs  drove  the  king,  Alvaro  I,  into  exile.  The  Portuguese 
governor  of  Sao  Tome,  responding  to  pleas  from  Alvaro  I,  fought 
the  invaders  from  1571  through  1573,  finally  ousting  them  and  oc- 
cupying the  area  until  the  mid- 15 70s. 

A  few  years  earlier,  Sebastiao,  the  Portuguese  king,  had  grant- 
ed the  area  south  of  the  Bakongo  as  a  proprietary  colony  to  Paulo 
Dias  de  Novais,  an  associate  of  Portuguese  Jesuits  and  an  ex- 
perienced explorer  of  the  West  African  coast.  In  1576,  in  effective 
control  of  the  countryside  and  facing  no  organized  Kongo  opposi- 
tion, the  Portuguese  founded  the  town  of  Luanda,  in  effect  estab- 
lishing the  colony  of  Angola.  Other  African  leaders,  however, 
continued  to  resist  the  Portuguese,  and  the  Europeans  only  managed 
to  establish  insecure  footholds  along  the  coast.  Concerned  that  Afri- 
can attacks  might  impede  the  stream  of  slaves  to  Brazil  and  Portu- 
gal, in  1590  the  crown  assumed  direct  control  of  the  colony. 

Alvaro  I  and  his  successor,  Alvaro  II,  brought  stability  to  the 
Kongo  Kingdom  by  expanding  the  domain  of  their  royal  authori- 
ty while  keeping  at  bay  encroachment  by  the  Portuguese,  whose 
colony  during  the  late  years  of  the  sixteenth  century  remained  con- 
fined to  the  area  south  of  Kongo.  But  after  the  death  of  Alvaro 
II  in  1614,  conflicts  over  access  to  cultivable  land  between  Kongo 
and  the  Portuguese  colony  of  Angola  soured  formerly  amicable 
relations,  and  in  1622  the  Portuguese  governor  of  Angola  launched 
an  attack  on  Kongo.  Although  not  entirely  successful  from  the  Por- 
tuguese point  of  view,  the  war  had  a  number  of  lasting  effects.  First, 
the  colony  captured  a  large  number  of  slaves,  which  demonstrat- 
ed how  rewarding  slave  raiding  could  be.  Second,  the  Portuguese 
came  out  of  the  war  convinced  of  the  existence  of  silver  and  gold 
mines  in  Kongo,  a  belief  that  encouraged  a  series  of  conflicts  be- 
tween the  colonists  and  the  Kongo  Kingdom  for  the  next  half  cen- 
tury. The  war  also  created  a  xenophobia  among  the  Bakongo  of 
the  interior,  who  drove  away  many  Portuguese.  Because  the  trad- 
ing system  depended  largely  on  the  Bakongo,  commerce  was  greatiy 
disrupted,  with  effects  on  the  Angolan  colony  as  great  as  those  on 
the  Kongo  Kingdom. 

Adding  to  Kongo's  troubles  in  the  early  1600s  was  a  general  dis- 
satisfaction among  the  Bakongo  with  their  rulers,  some  of  whom 
were  greedy  and  corrupt.  Consequently,  conflicts  arose  over  suc- 
cession to  the  throne,  and  more  and  more  sections  of  the  kingdom 


9 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

gained  substantial  degrees  of  autonomy  and  established  local  con- 
trol over  the  trade  that  had  so  enriched  the  monarchy  in  earlier 
years. 

Ndongo  Kingdom 

Shortly  after  Cao  made  his  initial  contact  with  the  Kongo  King- 
dom of  northern  Angola  in  1483,  he  established  links  farther  south 
with  Ndongo — an  African  state  less  advanced  than  Kongo  that  was 
made  up  of  Kimbundu- speaking  people.  Their  ruler,  who  was  tribu- 
tary to  the  manikongo,  was  called  the  ngola  a  kiluanje.  It  was  the  first 
part  of  the  tide,  its  pronunciation  changed  to  "Angola,"  by  which 
the  Portuguese  referred  to  the  entire  area. 

Throughout  most  of  the  sixteenth  century,  Portugal's  relations 
with  Ndongo  were  overshadowed  by  its  dealings  with  Kongo.  Some 
historians,  citing  the  disruptions  the  Portuguese  caused  in  Kongo 
society,  believe  that  Ndongo  benefited  from  the  lack  of  Portuguese 
interest.  It  was  not  until  after  the  founding  of  Luanda  in  1576  that 
Portugal's  exploration  into  the  area  of  present-day  Angola  rivaled 
its  trade  and  commerce  in  Kongo.  Furthermore,  it  was  only  in  the 
early  seventeenth  century  that  the  importance  of  the  colony  Por- 
tugal established  came  to  exceed  that  of  Kongo. 

Although  officially  ignored  by  Lisbon,  the  Angolan  colony  was 
the  center  of  disputes,  usually  concerning  the  slave  trade,  between 
local  Portuguese  traders  and  the  Mbundu  people,  who  inhabited 
Ndongo.  But  by  mid-century,  the  favorable  attention  the  ngola 
received  from  Portuguese  trade  or  missionary  groups  angered  the 
manikongo,  who  in  1556  sent  an  army  against  the  Ndongo  King- 
dom. The  forces  of  the  ngola  defeated  the  Kongo  army,  encourag- 
ing him  to  declare  his  independence  from  Kongo  and  appeal  to 
Portugal  for  military  support.  In  1560  Lisbon  responded  by  send- 
ing an  expedition  to  Angola,  but  in  the  interim  the  ngola  who  had 
requested  Portuguese  support  had  died,  and  his  successor  took  cap- 
tive four  members  of  the  expedition.  After  the  hostage  taking,  Lis- 
bon routinely  employed  military  force  in  dealing  with  the  Ndongo 
Kingdom.  This  resulted  in  a  major  eastward  migration  of  Mbun- 
du people  and  the  subsequent  establishment  of  other  kingdoms. 

Following  the  founding  of  Luanda,  Paulo  Dias  carried  out  a  series 
of  bloody  military  campaigns  that  contributed  to  Ndongo  resent- 
ment of  Europeans.  Dias  founded  several  forts  east  of  Luanda, 
but — indicative  of  Portugal's  declining  status  as  a  world  power — 
he  was  unable  to  gain  firm  control  of  the  land  around  them.  Dias 
died  in  1579  without  having  conquered  the  Ndongo  Kingdom. 

Dias's  successors  made  slow  progress  up  the  Cuanza  River,  meet- 
ing constant  African  resistance.  By  1604  they  reached  Cambambe, 


10 


where  they  learned  that  the  presumed  silver  mines  did  not  exist. 
The  failure  of  the  Portuguese  to  find  mineral  wealth  changed  their 
outlook  on  the  Angolan  colony.  Slave  taking,  which  had  been 
incidental  to  the  quest  for  the  mines,  then  became  the  major  eco- 
nomic motivation  for  expansion  and  extension  of  Portuguese 
authority.  In  search  of  slaves,  the  Portuguese  pushed  farther  into 
Ndongo  country,  establishing  a  fort  a  short  distance  from  Mas- 
sangano,  itself  about  175  kilometers  east  of  Angola's  Atlantic  coast. 
The  consequent  fighting  with  the  Ndongo  generated  a  stream  of 
slaves  who  were  shipped  to  the  coast.  Following  a  period  of  Ndon- 
go diplomatic  initiatives  toward  Lisbon  in  the  1620s,  relations  de- 
generated into  a  state  of  war. 

The  Defeat  of  Kongo  and  Ndongo 

The  Portuguese  imposed  a  peace  treaty  on  the  Bakongo.  Its  con- 
ditions, however,  were  so  harsh  that  peace  was  never  really 
achieved,  and  hostilities  grew  during  the  1660s.  The  Portuguese 
victory  over  the  Bakongo  at  the  Battle  of  Mbwila  (also  spelled 
Ambuila)  on  October  29,  1665,  marked  the  end  of  the  Kongo  King- 
dom as  a  unified  power.  By  the  eighteenth  century,  Kongo  had 
been  transformed  from  a  unitary  state  into  a  number  of  smaller 
entities  that  recognized  the  king  but  for  all  practical  purposes  were 
independent.  Fragmented  though  they  were,  these  Kongo  states 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

still  resisted  Portuguese  encroachments.  Although  they  were  never 
again  as  significant  as  during  Angola's  early  days,  the  Bakongo 
played  an  important  role  in  the  nationalist  and  independence  strug- 
gles of  the  twentieth  century. 

The  Ndongo  Kingdom  suffered  a  fate  similar  to  that  of  Kongo. 
Before  the  Dutch  captured  Luanda  in  1641 ,  the  Portuguese  attempt- 
ed to  control  Ndongo  by  supporting  a  pliant  king,  and  during  the 
Dutch  occupation,  Ndongo  remained  loyal  to  Portugal  (see  The 
Dutch  Interregnum,  1641-48,  this  ch.).  But  after  the  retaking  of 
Luanda  in  1648,  the  ngola  judged  that  the  Portuguese  had  not  suffi- 
cientiy  rewarded  the  kingdom  for  its  allegiance.  Consequentiy,  he 
reasserted  Ndongo  independence,  an  act  that  angered  the  colonists. 
In  1671  Ndongo  intransigence  prompted  a  Portuguese  attack  and 
siege  on  the  capital  of  Pungu-a-Ndondong  (present-day  Pungo 
Andongo).  The  attackers  killed  the  ngola,  enslaved  many  of  his  fol- 
lowers, and  built  a  fort  on  the  site  of  the  capital.  Thus,  the  Ndon- 
go Kingdom,  which  had  enjoyed  only  semi-independent  status,  now 
surrendered  entirely  to  Portugal. 

Matamba  and  Kasanje  Kingdoms 

As  Portugal  became  preoccupied  with  the  Ndongo  Kingdom  as 
a  source  of  slaves,  two  inland  Mbundu  states — Matamba  and 
Kasanje — prospered.  Littie  is  known  of  Matamba  before  the  seven- 
teenth century,  but  in  1621  Nzinga  (called  Jinga  by  the  Portuguese), 
the  sister  of  the  ngola  a  kiluanje,  convinced  the  Portuguese  to  recog- 
nize Ndongo  as  an  independent  monarchy  and  to  help  the  king- 
dom expel  the  Imbangala  people  from  its  territory.  Three  years 
later,  according  to  some  sources,  Nzinga  poisoned  her  brother  and 
succeeded  him  as  monarch.  Unable  to  negotiate  successfully  with 
a  series  of  Portuguese  governors,  however,  she  was  eventually 
removed.  Nzinga  and  many  of  her  followers  traveled  east  and  forged 
alliances  with  several  groups.  She  finally  ascended  to  the  throne 
of  the  Matamba  Kingdom.  From  this  eastern  state,  she  pursued 
good  relations  with  the  Dutch  during  their  occupation  of  the  area 
from  1641  to  1648  and  attempted  to  reconquer  Ndongo.  After  the 
Dutch  expulsion,  Nzinga  again  allied  with  the  Portuguese.  A 
dynamic  and  wily  ruler,  Nzinga  dominated  Mbundu  politics  until 
she  died  in  1663.  Although  she  dealt  with  the  Europeans,  in  modern 
times  Nzinga  has  been  remembered  by  nationalists  as  an  Angolan 
leader  who  never  accepted  Portuguese  sovereignty. 

After  Nzinga' s  death,  a  succession  struggle  ensued,  and  the  new 
ruler  tried  to  reduce  Portuguese  influence.  Following  their  prac- 
tice with  the  Ndongo,  the  Portuguese  forced  him  out  and  placed 
their  own  candidate,  Kanini,  on  the  throne.  Kanini  coveted  the 


12 


Historical  Setting 


nearby  kingdom  of  Kasanje — peopled  by  Mbundu  but  ruled  by 
Imbangala — for  its  role  in  the  slave  trade.  Once  he  had  consoli- 
dated power,  in  1680  Kanini  successfully  moved  against  Kasanje, 
which  was  undergoing  a  succession  crisis  of  its  own.  Kanini 's  defeat 
of  the  Kasanje  state  made  his  Portuguese  benefactors  realize  that 
as  his  empire  expanded,  Kanini  was  increasingly  threatening  their 
own  slaving  interests.  Subsequently,  Kanini  defeated  a  Portuguese 
military  expedition  sent  against  him,  although  he  died  soon  after. 
In  1683  Portugal  negotiated  with  the  new  Matamba  queen  to  halt 
further  attempts  to  conquer  Kasanje  territory  and,  because  of 
mounting  competition  from  other  European  powers,  convinced  her 
to  trade  exclusively  with  Portugal. 

Lunda  and  Chokwe  Kingdoms 

The  Lunda  Kingdom  lay  east,  beyond  Matamba  and  Kasanje. 
It  developed  in  the  seventeenth  century,  and  its  center  was  in 
present-day  Zaire's  western  Shaba  Region  (formerly  Katanga 
Province).  The  Lunda  Kingdom  expanded  by  absorbing  the  chiefs 
of  neighboring  groups  in  the  empire,  rather  than  by  deposing  them. 
The  Lunda  consolidated  their  state  by  adopting  an  orderly  system 
of  succession  and  by  gaining  control  of  the  trade  caravans  that 
passed  through  their  kingdom. 

The  Portuguese  hoped  to  deal  directly  with  the  Lunda  for  slaves 
and  thus  bypass  the  representatives  of  the  Matamba  and  Kasanje, 
who  acted  as  intermediaries.  Apparentiy  entertaining  similar  ideas, 
the  Lunda  attacked  Matamba  and  Kasanje  in  the  1760s.  The  Lun- 
da, however,  proved  no  more  successful  than  the  Portuguese  at 
totally  subduing  these  Mbundu  kingdoms. 

The  Chokwe,  who,  according  to  oral  accounts,  migrated  from 
either  central  Africa  or  the  upper  reaches  of  the  Kasai  River  in 
present-day  Zaire,  established  themselves  as  trading  intermediaries 
in  eastern  Angola  in  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century.  With 
guns  that  they  obtained  from  the  Ovimbundu,  they  attacked  and 
destroyed  the  Lunda  Kingdom  in  1900.  The  Chokwe  rapidly  ex- 
panded their  influence  in  the  northeast  and  east,  replacing  the  Lun- 
da culture  with  their  own  language  and  customs. 

Ovimbundu  and  Kwanhama  Kingdoms 

Between  1500  and  1700,  the  Ovimbundu  peoples  migrated  from 
the  north  and  east  of  Angola  to  the  Benguela  Plateau.  They  did 
not,  however,  consolidate  their  kingdoms,  nor  did  their  kings 
assert  their  sovereignty  over  the  plateau  until  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, when  some  twenty- two  kingdoms  emerged.  Thirteen  of  the 
kingdoms,  including  Bie,  Bailundu,  and  Ciyaka,  emerged  as 


13 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


powerful  entities,  and  the  Ovimbundu  acquired  a  reputation  as 
the  most  successful  traders  of  the  Angolan  interior.  After  the  Por- 
tuguese conquered  most  of  the  Ovimbundu  states  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century,  the  Portuguese  colonial  authorities  directly  or 
indirectly  appointed  Ovimbundu  kings. 

The  Kwanhama,  belonging  to  the  Bantu- speaking  group,  estab- 
lished a  kingdom  early  in  the  nineteenth  century  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  border  with  present-day  Namibia.  Kwanhama  kings  wel- 
comed trade  with  Europeans,  especially  with  Portuguese  and  Ger- 
man gun  dealers.  Feared  even  by  the  Portuguese,  the  well-armed 
Kwanhama  developed  a  reputation  as  fierce  warriors.  Their  king- 
dom survived  until  1915,  when  a  large  Portuguese  army  invaded 
and  defeated  them. 

The  Dutch  Interregnum,  1641-48 

During  the  first  half  of  the  1600s,  when  Portugal  became  involved 
in  a  succession  of  European  religious  and  dynastic  wars  at  the 
insistence  of  Spain,  the  Portuguese  colonies  were  subjected  to  attacks 
by  Spain's  enemies.  Holland,  one  of  Spain's  most  potent  enemies, 
raided  and  harassed  the  Portuguese  territories  in  Angola.  The  Dutch 
also  began  pursuing  alliances  with  Africans,  including  the  king  of 
Kongo  and  Nzinga  of  Matamba,  who,  angered  by  their  treatment 
at  the  hands  of  the  Portuguese,  welcomed  the  opportunity  to  deal 
with  another  European  power. 

When  it  rebelled  against  Spain  in  1640,  Portugal  hoped  to 
establish  good  relations  with  the  Dutch.  Instead,  the  Dutch  saw 
an  opportunity  to  expand  their  own  colonial  holdings  and  in  1641 
captured  Luanda  and  Benguela,  forcing  the  Portuguese  governor 
to  flee  with  his  fellow  refugees  inland  to  Massangano.  The  Por- 
tuguese were  unable  to  dislodge  the  Dutch  from  their  coastal  beach- 
head. As  the  Dutch  occupation  cut  off  the  supply  of  slaves  to  Brazil, 
that  colony's  economy  suffered.  In  response,  Brazilian  colonists 
raised  money  and  organized  forces  to  launch  an  expedition  aimed 
at  unseating  the  Dutch  from  Angola.  In  May  1648,  the  Dutch  gar- 
rison in  Luanda  surrendered  to  the  Brazilian  detachment,  and  the 
Dutch  eventually  relinquished  their  other  Angolan  conquests. 
According  to  some  historians,  after  the  retaking  of  Luanda,  Angola 
became  a  de  facto  colony  of  Brazil,  so  driven  was  the  South  Ameri- 
can colony's  sugar-growing  economy  by  its  need  for  slaves. 

Angola  in  the  Eighteenth  Century 
Slave  Trading  in  the  1 700s 

Slave  trading  dominated  the  Portuguese  economy  in  eighteenth- 


14 


Historical  Setting 


century  Angola.  Slaves  were  obtained  by  agents,  called  pombeiros, 
who  roamed  the  interior,  generally  following  established  routes 
along  rivers.  They  bought  slaves,  called  pegas  (pieces),  from  local 
chiefs  in  exchange  for  commodities  such  as  cloth  and  wine.  The 
pombeiros  returned  to  Luanda  or  Benguela  with  chain  gangs  of 
several  hundred  captives,  most  of  whom  were  malnourished  and 
in  poor  condition  from  the  arduous  trip  on  foot.  On  the  coast,  they 
were  better  fed  and  readied  for  their  sea  crossing.  Before  embark- 
ing, they  were  baptized  en  masse  by  Roman  Catholic  priests.  The 
Adantic  crossing  in  the  overcrowded,  unsanitary  vessels  lasted  from 
five  weeks  to  two  months.  Many  captives  died  en  route. 

During  the  sixteenth  century  and  most  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, Luanda  had  been  the  main  slave  port  of  the  Portuguese,  but 
toward  the  end  of  the  1600s  they  turned  their  attention  to  Benguela. 
Although  the  first  efforts  at  inland  expansion  from  Benguela  failed, 
the  Portuguese  eventually  penetrated  the  Ovimbundu  kingdoms 
and  subjected  their  people  to  the  same  treatment  that  had  earlier 
befallen  the  Mbundu.  By  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  Ben- 
guela rivaled  Luanda  as  a  slave  port. 

According  to  historian  C.R.  Boxer,  African  slaves  were  more 
valued  in  the  Americas  than  were  American  Indian  slaves  because 
Africans  tended  to  adjust  more  easily  to  slavery  and  because  they 
were  less  vulnerable  to  the  diseases  of  Europeans.  Boxer  also  sug- 
gests that  Jesuits  in  the  New  World  opposed  the  notion  of  using 
Indians  as  slaves,  whereas  they  were  less  resistant  to  the  use  of  Afri- 
cans as  slaves.  Many  of  these  African  slaves  were  sent  to  Spanish 
colonies,  where  they  brought  a  higher  price  than  they  would  have 
if  sold  in  Brazil. 

From  the  late  sixteenth  century  until  1836,  when  Portugal 
abolished  slave  trafficking,  Angola  may  have  been  the  source  of 
as  many  as  2  million  slaves  for  the  New  World.  More  than  half 
of  these  went  to  Brazil,  nearly  a  third  to  the  Caribbean,  and  from 
10  to  15  percent  to  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  area  on  the  southeastern 
coast  of  South  America.  Considering  the  number  of  slaves  that 
actually  arrived,  and  taking  into  account  those  who  died  crossing 
the  Atlantic  or  during  transport  from  the  interior  to  the  coast  for 
shipping,  the  Angola  area  may  have  lost  as  many  as  4  million  peo- 
ple as  a  result  of  the  slave  trade. 

By  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  it  became  clear  that  Lis- 
bon's dream  of  establishing  a  trading  monopoly  in  its  colonies  had 
not  been  achieved.  Competition  from  foreign  powers  contributed 
significantly  to  Portugal's  inability  to  control  the  slave  trade,  either 
in  Angola's  interior  or  on  the  coast.  In  1784,  for  example,  the 
French  expelled  a  garrison  that  the  Portuguese  had  established  a 


15 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


year  earlier  in  Cabinda.  Portugal  was  also  concerned  about  the 
northward  expansion  of  Dutch  settlers  from  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope 
area.  Moreover,  at  this  time  the  British,  Dutch,  and  Brazilians, 
not  the  Portuguese,  were  contributing  most  of  the  capital  and  ves- 
sels used  in  the  slave  trade.  Furthermore,  many  of  the  European 
goods  arriving  at  Angolan  ports  were  coming  from  nations  other 
than  Portugal. 

Portuguese  Settlers  in  Angola 

The  Portuguese  authorities  and  settlers  in  Angola  formed  a  mot- 
ley group.  The  inhabitants  resented  the  governors,  whom  they 
regarded  as  outsiders.  Indeed,  these  officials  were  less  concerned 
with  the  welfare  of  the  colony  than  with  the  profit  they  could  real- 
ize from  the  slave  trade.  But  governing  the  small  colony  was  difficult 
because  any  central  administrative  authority  had  to  deal  with  a 
group  of  settlers  prone  to  rebellion.  Because  Brazil  was  the  jewel 
of  Portugal's  overseas  territories,  Portuguese  who  immigrated  to 
Angola  were  frequentiy  deserters,  degredados,  peasants,  and  others 
who  had  been  unable  to  succeed  in  Portugal  or  elsewhere  in  the 
Portuguese-speaking  world. 

Owing  principally  to  the  African  colony's  unsavory  reputation 
in  Portugal  and  the  high  regard  in  which  Brazil  was  held,  there 
was  little  emigration  to  Angola  in  the  1600s  and  1700s.  Thus,  the 
white  population  of  Angola  in  1777  was  less  than  1,600.  Of  this 
number,  very  few  whites  were  females;  one  account  states  that  in 
1846  the  ratio  of  Portuguese  men  to  Portuguese  women  in  the 
colony  was  eleven  to  one.  A  product  of  this  gender  imbalance  was 
miscegenation;  for  example,  the  mestizo  population  in  1777  was  es- 
timated at  a  little  more  than  4,000. 

Besides  exporting  them,  Europeans  in  Angola  kept  slaves  as  port- 
ers, soldiers,  agricultural  laborers,  and  as  workers  at  jobs  that  the 
Portuguese  increasingly  considered  too  menial  to  do  themselves. 
At  no  time,  however,  was  domestic  slavery  more  important  to  the 
local  economy  than  the  exporting  of  slaves. 

The  1800s:  Turmoil  in  Portugal,  Reform  and  Expansion 
in  Angola 

The  Early  Nineteenth  Century 

The  nineteenth  century  ushered  in  a  period  of  crisis  for  Portu- 
gal. The  invasion  by  Napoleon's  armies  in  1807  forced  the  Por- 
tuguese court  into  exile  in  Brazil.  In  1820  the  regency  was 
overthrown,  and  a  conflict  began  between  constitutionalists  and 
monarchists  that  did  not  end  until  1834.  Many  of  these  changes 


16 


Historical  Setting 


were  echoed  in  Angola,  where  there  were  uprisings  and  an  army 
mutiny  that  toppled  the  colony's  governor. 

The  instability  in  Europe  in  the  first  three  decades  of  the 
nineteenth  century  removed  Portugal,  Britain,  France,  and  Hol- 
land from  the  Angolan  slave  market.  But  this  turn  of  events  allowed 
Angolan  traders  access  to  other  markets.  Unfettered  trade  with 
Brazilians,  Cubans,  and  American  southerners  enabled  the  Por- 
tuguese slave  dealers  to  enjoy  a  period  of  great  prosperity,  while 
the  Angolan  kingdoms  suffered  increased  depopulation.  After  the 
constitutionalist  triumph  in  Portugal  in  1834,  a  provisional  junta 
took  charge  in  Luanda. 

Abolition  of  the  Slave  Trade 

In  the  early  1830s,  the  Portuguese  government  appointed  a 
progressive  prime  minister,  the  Marques  de  Sa  da  Bandeira,  whose 
most  important  reform  was  the  abolition  of  the  slave  trade  in  1836. 
The  decree,  however,  could  not  be  enforced  adequately,  and  it  took 
Britain's  Royal  Navy  to  put  an  end  to  the  activity  in  the  middle 
of  the  nineteenth  century. 

In  1858  slavery  was  legally  abolished  in  Angola.  Government 
slaves  had  already  been  freed  in  1854,  but  the  1858  proclamation 
declared  that  all  slavery  should  cease  by  1878.  Legislation  was 
passed  to  compensate  owners  and  to  care  for  the  freed  people.  But 
many  of  the  colonists  found  ways  to  circumvent  the  decree,  so  that 
the  actual  conditions  of  labor  did  not  change  significantly. 

Expansion  and  the  Berlin  Conference 

The  abolition  of  the  slave  trade  coincided  with  increased  Por- 
tuguese expansion  in  Angola.  Expansion  began  in  1838  with  the 
conquest  and  establishment  of  a  fort  at  Duque  de  Braganca 
(renamed  Calandula),  in  an  area  east  of  Luanda.  By  mid-century 
the  Portuguese  had  extended  their  formal  control  still  farther  east 
to  the  Kasanje  market  near  the  Cuango  River  (see  Matamba  and 
Kasanje  Kingdoms,  this  ch.).  In  1840  the  Portuguese  founded  the 
town  of  Mocamedes  (present-day  Namibe)  on  the  coast  south  of 
Benguela.  The  Portuguese  also  attempted  to  gain  control  of  the 
coast  from  Luanda  north  to  Cabinda  through  military  occupation 
of  the  major  ports.  Because  of  British  opposition,  however,  they 
were  unable  to  complete  this  attempt  and  never  gained  control  of 
the  mouth  of  the  Congo  River. 

The  cost  of  military  operations  to  secure  economically  strategic 
points  led  in  1856  to  the  imposition  on  Africans  of  a  substantially 
increased  hut  tax,  which  for  the  first  time  had  to  be  paid  with  cur- 
rency or  trade  goods  rather  than  with  slaves.  As  a  result,  many 


17 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Africans  either  refused  to  pay  or  fled  from  areas  controlled  by  the 
Portuguese.  By  1861,  therefore,  the  Portuguese  lacked  the  resources 
for  continued  military  expansion  or  economic  development,  and 
most  of  the  interior  remained  in  the  control  of  African  traders  and 
warriors. 

From  the  late  1870s  through  the  early  1890s,  Portugal  renewed 
expansion  into  the  interior.  Part  of  the  impetus  came  from  the  Lis- 
bon Geographical  Society,  founded  in  1875  by  a  group  of  indus- 
trialists, scholars,  and  colonial  and  military  officials.  This  society 
stimulated  a  popular  concern  for  the  colonies  in  Portugal.  In  reac- 
tion to  the  activities  of  the  society  and  the  growing  interest  among 
Europeans  in  colonial  adventure,  the  Portuguese  government 
allotted  large  sums  for  public  works  in  Africa  and  encouraged  a 
minor  revival  of  missionary  work. 

An  advisory  commission  to  Portugal's  Ministry  of  the  Navy  and 
Colonies  formed  an  expedition  in  the  1870s  to  link  Angola  on  the 
Atlantic  coast  with  Mozambique  on  the  Indian  Ocean  coast.  The 
Portuguese  government  supported  this  expedition  because  it  aspired 
to  control  a  solid  strip  of  territory  across  the  central  part  of  the 
continent.  Nonetheless,  Portugal  was  unable  to  gain  control  of  the 
hinterland. 

Aware  of  French  and  Belgian  activities  on  the  lower  Congo  River, 
in  1883  the  Portuguese  occupied  Cabinda  and  Massabi  north  of 
the  Congo  River,  towns  that  Portugal  had  long  claimed.  In  the 
same  year,  Portugal  annexed  the  region  of  the  old  Kongo  King- 
dom. Seeking  to  uphold  these  claims  against  French  and  Belgian 
advances  in  the  Congo  River  Basin,  Portugal  negotiated  a  treaty 
with  Britain  in  1884;  the  other  European  powers,  however,  reject- 
ed it.  Portugal's  subsequent  demands  for  an  international  confer- 
ence on  the  Congo  fell  on  deaf  ears  until  German  chancellor  Otto 
von  Bismarck  seized  on  the  idea  as  an  opportunity  to  diminish 
French  and  British  power. 

At  the  Berlin  Conference  of  1884,  the  participants  established 
in  principle  the  limits  of  Portugal's  claims  to  Angola,  and  in  later 
years,  treaties  with  the  colonial  powers  that  controlled  the  neigh- 
boring territories  delineated  Angola's  boundaries.  But  because 
other,  more  powerful  European  states  of  the  nineteenth  century 
had  explored  central  Africa,  they,  not  Portugal,  determined 
Angola's  boundaries.  The  west  coast  territory  Portugal  acquired 
included  the  left  bank  of  the  Congo  River  and  the  Cabinda  enclave, 
an  acquisition  whose  value  to  the  state  was  demonstrated  in  later 
years  by  the  discovery  there  of  oil.  Britain,  however,  forced  Por- 
tugal to  withdraw  from  Nyasaland  (present-day  Malawi)  and 
Rhodesia  (present-day  Zimbabwe  and  Zambia). 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Portugal  and  Belgium  concluded  several  agreements  between 
1891  and  1927,  establishing  a  complex  border  generally  following 
natural  frontiers.  Cabinda's  boundaries  with  the  French  Congo 
and  the  Belgian  Congo  were  delimited  in  1886  and  1894,  respec- 
tively, and  by  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Portugal  had  staked 
out  most  of  its  claims  in  Angola. 

As  far  as  Europe  was  concerned,  Angola  was  in  the  Portuguese 
sphere  of  influence,  and  its  status  was  not  subject  to  further  deliber- 
ations. Considering  its  diminished  stature  in  relation  to  other 
European  powers,  Portugal  had  done  well  to  hold  onto  as  much 
territory  as  it  had.  But  the  fact  that  Angola  was  recognized  as  a 
Portuguese  possession  did  not  mean  that  it  was  under  Portuguese 
control.  The  work  of  conquest  took  the  better  part  of  twenty-five 
years,  and  in  some  remote  areas  even  longer. 

Settlement,  Conquest,  and  Development 
The  Demographic  Situation 

As  the  spheres  of  interest  in  the  African  interior  became  clari- 
fied, European  nations  turned  to  fulfilling  the  obligation  imposed 
by  the  Berlin  Conference  of  effectively  occupying  all  territories 
claimed.  For  Portugal,  meeting  this  obligation  involved  not  only 
the  conquest  of  the  independent  African  kingdoms  of  the  interior 
but  also  an  attempt  to  settle  Portuguese  farmers. 

Immigration  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  was  discouraged  by 
the  same  conditions  that  had  deterred  it  earlier:  a  difficult  climate 
and  a  lack  of  economic  development.  Although  there  were  fewer 
than  10,000  whites  in  Angola  in  1900  (most  of  whom  were  degreda- 
dos),  there  was  a  substantial  increase  in  white  female  immigration; 
the  male-to-female  ratio  that  year  was  a  bit  more  than  two  to  one. 
Concomitantly,  there  was  a  drop  in  the  ratio  of  mestigos  to  whites; 
whereas  mestigos  had  outnumbered  whites  in  1845  by  more  than 
three  to  one,  in  1900  this  ratio  was  reversed.  Africans  still  con- 
stituted more  than  99  percent  of  the  population  in  1900.  Their  num- 
bers reportedly  declined  from  an  estimated  5.4  million  in  1845  to 
about  4.8  million  in  1900,  although  scholars  dispute  these  figures. 
Whites  were  concentrated  in  the  coastal  cities  of  Luanda  and  Ben- 
guela.  In  addition  to  farming  and  fishing,  Europeans  engaged  in 
merchant  activities  in  the  towns  and  trade  in  the  bush.  In  the  south, 
colonies  of  farmers  who  had  settled  earlier  in  the  century  had  dwin- 
dled into  small  outposts,  as  many  settlers  returned  to  Luanda. 

In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  Africans  controlled  trade  in  the 
plateaus  of  the  interior,  despite  Portuguese  expansion.  The  Ovim- 
bundu  proved  highly  successful  intermediaries  on  the  southern 


19 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

trade  route  that  ran  from  the  Bie  Plateau  to  Benguela.  The  Ovim- 
bundu  were  more  competitive  than  the  sertanejos  (people  of  the  fron- 
tier, as  Europeans  and  their  representatives  in  the  rural  areas  were 
called),  who  often  had  to  pay  tribute  and  fines  to  African  chiefs 
through  whose  territory  they  traveled.  By  the  mid- 1880s,  the  Ovim- 
bundu  by  and  large  had  replaced  the  sertanejos.  The  Chokwe  and 
Imbangala  also  took  advantage  of  their  positions  in  the  interior  to 
extend  their  control  over  the  region's  trade.  Nonetheless,  by  the 
late  1800s  Portuguese  encroachments  and  the  imposition  of  Euro- 
pean rule  limited  the  political  freedom  of  these  Africans  and 
diminished  their  prosperity. 

Military  Campaigns 

After  the  Berlin  Conference,  the  Portuguese  military  was  preoc- 
cupied with  the  subjugation  of  the  African  inhabitants  of  the  hin- 
terland, and  by  1915  it  secured  the  colony  for  Portugal.  Before 
African  resistance  was  broken,  intensive  military  action  was  neces- 
sary in  several  areas.  One  campaign  took  place  in  the  southern 
region  in  response  to  a  request  from  the  Boer  settlement  near 
Humbe  that  was  threatened  by  the  Kwanhama.  Sporadic  campaign- 
ing included  several  serious  reverses  for  the  Portuguese.  The  Por- 
tuguese were  able  to  bring  the  Kwanhama  under  control  only  with 
the  assistance  of  field  artillery  and  the  establishment  of  a  series  of 
fortified  garrisons.  One  of  the  most  difficult  Portuguese  military 
campaigns  was  waged  against  the  Dembos,  a  Kimbundu-speaking 
people  who  lived  less  than  150  kilometers  northeast  of  Luanda.  The 
Portuguese  attacked  the  Dembos  repeatedly  over  a  period  of  three 
years  before  the  Dembos  were  finally  subdued  in  1910.  Because 
of  difficult  conditions,  including  the  tropical  climate,  the  Portuguese 
did  not  complete  their  occupation  of  Dembos  land  until  1917. 

Administration  and  Development 

Portuguese  colonial  policies  toward  civil  administration  were  first 
formulated  in  Mozambique,  where  in  the  1890s  Antonio  Enes, 
former  minister  of  colonies,  advocated  close  control  and  full  use 
of  African  labor,  administrative  reorganization,  and  colonization 
schemes.  In  1899  Paiva  Couceiro,  who  had  been  with  Enes  in 
Mozambique,  published  a  volume  in  which  he  advocated  white 
colonization,  decentralization  of  administration  from  Lisbon,  and 
the  necessity  of  inculcating  in  the  Africans  the  "habit  of  work." 
As  governor  general  of  Angola  between  1907  and  1910,  Couceiro 
prepared  the  basis  of  civil  administration  in  the  colony.  Military 
officers  were  to  oversee  administrative  divisions,  and  through  them 
European  civilization  was  to  be  brought  to  the  Africans.  Many 


20 


Historical  Setting 


of  Couceiro's  reforms  were  incorporated  in  legislation  in  1914  that 
brought,  at  least  in  theory,  financial  and  administrative  autono- 
my to  the  colony. 

There  was  considerable  progress  toward  the  development  of  an 
economic  infrastructure  during  the  first  quarter  of  the  twentieth 
century.  New  towns  sprang  up  in  the  interior,  and  road  construc- 
tion advanced.  The  key  to  development,  however,  was  the  Ben- 
guela  Railway,  which  would  become  Angola's  largest  employer  and 
which  linked  the  mines  of  the  Belgian  Congo's  Katanga  Province 
(in  present-day  Shaba  Region  in  Zaire)  to  the  Angolan  port  at 
Lobito. 

In  the  1920s,  the  Diamond  Company  of  Angola  (Companhia 
de  Diamantes  de  Angola — Diamang),  an  exclusive  concessionaire 
in  Angola  until  the  1960s,  initiated  diamond  mining.  As  the 
employer  of  more  Africans  than  any  other  industry,  Diamang 
deeply  affected  the  lives  of  its  18,000  African  workers  through 
extensive  investment  and  the  provision  of  social  services. 

The  Portuguese,  however,  were  generally  unable  to  provide 
Angola  with  adequate  development  capital  or  with  settlers.  Trade 
had  fallen  off  sharply  when  the  rubber  boom  ended  just  before 
World  War  I,  and  the  war  itself  produced  only  a  brief  revival  of 
foreign  trade.  At  the  end  of  what  is  commonly  referred  to  as  Por- 
tugal's republican  era  (1910-26),  the  finances  of  the  colony  were 
in  serious  difficulty. 

Angola  under  the  Salazar  Regime 
Angola  under  the  New  State 

The  right-wing  Portuguese  military  coup  of  May  1926,  which 
ended  the  republican  era,  led  to  the  installation  of  a  one-party  re- 
gime in  Portugal  and  the  establishment  of  what  came  to  be  known 
as  the  New  State.  A  young  professor  of  economics,  Antonio  Sala- 
zar, became  minister  of  finance  in  1928,  and  by  1930  he  was  one 
of  the  most  prominent  members  of  the  government.  He  held  the 
post  of  prime  minister  from  1932  until  1968,  when  he  was  incapaci- 
tated by  a  stroke.  During  his  tenure  in  office,  he  left  a  lasting  im- 
pression on  events  in  Angola. 

The  most  important  changes  introduced  into  Angola  by  the  new 
regime  were  embodied  in  the  Colonial  Act  of  1930.  This  act  brought 
Angola's  economy  into  line  with  economic  policies  that  the  new 
regime  was  implementing  at  home.  But  Portugal's  application  of 
strict  financial  controls  over  the  colony  also  halted  the  drift  toward 
political  autonomy  in  Angola. 

Portugal's  policies  toward  Angola  in  the  1930s  and  1940s  were 


21 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

based  on  the  principle  of  national  integration.  Economically, 
socially,  and  politically,  Angola  was  to  become  an  integral  part  of 
the  Portuguese  nation.  In  line  with  these  policies,  Portugal  renamed 
African  towns,  usually  after  Portuguese  heroes.  Still  later,  in  the 
early  1950s,  Portugal  withdrew  the  currency,  known  as  the  ango- 
lar,  and  replaced  it  with  the  Portuguese  escudo. 

Portugal  integrated  its  economy  with  that  of  Angola  by  erecting 
protective  trade  tariffs  and  discouraging  foreign  investment  capi- 
tal, except  in  the  construction  of  the  Benguela  Railway  and  in  the 
exploitation  of  diamonds.  In  this  way,  Portugal  sought  to  make 
Angola  self-supporting  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  turn  it  into  a  mar- 
ket for  Portuguese  goods.  But  despite  a  certain  degree  of  success, 
Angola  enjoyed  no  real  prosperity  until  after  World  War  II,  when 
higher  coffee  prices  brought  enormous  profits  to  Angolan  producers. 
The  consequent  economic  success  of  the  coffee  plantations,  owned 
primarily  by  newly  arrived  Portuguese  setders  attracted  by  the  colo- 
ny's increasing  wealth,  continued  until  independence  in  1975,  when 
the  Portuguese  exodus  and  civil  war  severely  disrupted  the  Ango- 
lan economy. 

Salazar's  Racial  Politics 

Until  1940  Portuguese  constituted  less  than  1  percent  of  Ango- 
la's population,  and  it  was  not  until  1950  that  their  proportion 
approached  2  percent.  This  increase  in  the  number  of  Europeans 
and  the  continuation  of  forced  labor  (not  abolished  until  1962)  and 
other  labor  abuses  led  to  an  intensification  of  racial  conflict.  Before 
1900  mestizos  had  been  engaged  in  a  variety  of  commercial  and 
governmental  roles,  but  as  the  white  population  came  to  outnum- 
ber them,  the  status  of  mestizos  declined.  In  the  first  two  decades 
of  the  twentieth  century,  laws  and  regulations  requiring  a  certain 
level  of  education  to  hold  some  government  positions  effectively 
excluded  mestizos  from  access  to  them.  In  1921  the  colonial  adminis- 
tration divided  the  civil  service  into  European  and  African  branches 
and  assigned  mestizos  and  the  very  few  African  assimilados  to  the 
latter,  thereby  limiting  their  chances  of  rising  in  the  bureaucratic 
hierarchy.  In  1929  statutes  limited  the  bureaucratic  level  to  which 
mestigos  and  assimilados  could  rise  to  that  of  first  clerk,  established 
different  pay  scales  for  Europeans  and  non-Europeans  in  both  public 
and  private  sectors,  and  restricted  competition  between  them  for 
jobs  in  the  bureaucracy.  Given  this  legal  framework,  the  immigra- 
tion of  increasing  numbers  of  Portuguese  led  to  considerable  dis- 
affection among  mestigos,  who  had  hitherto  tended  to  identify  with 
whites  rather  than  with  Africans. 


22 


Historical  Setting 


Beginning  in  the  1940s,  the  system  of  forced  labor  came  under 
renewed  criticism.  One  particularly  outspoken  critic,  Captain  Hen- 
rique Galvao,  who  had  served  for  more  than  two  decades  in  an 
official  capacity  in  Angola,  chronicled  abuses  committed  against 
the  African  population.  The  Salazar  government  responded  by 
arresting  Galvao  for  treason  and  banning  his  report.  Despite  the 
introduction  of  some  labor  reforms  from  the  late  1940s  through 
the  late  1950s,  forced  labor  continued. 

Legislation  that  was  passed  in  Portugal  between  1926  and  1933 
was  based  on  a  new  conception  of  Africans.  Whereas  Portugal  previ- 
ously had  assumed  that  Africans  would  somehow  naturally  be 
assimilated  into  European  society,  the  New  State  established  definite 
standards  Africans  had  to  meet  to  qualify  for  rights.  The  new  legis- 
lation defined  Africans  as  a  separate  element  in  the  population, 
referred  to  as  indigenas  (see  Glossary).  Those  who  learned  to  speak 
Portuguese,  who  took  jobs  in  commerce  or  industry,  and  who 
behaved  as  Portuguese  citizens  were  classified  as  assimilados.  In 
accepting  the  rights  of  citizenship,  assimilados  took  on  the  same  tax 
obligations  as  the  European  citizens.  Male  indigenas  were  required 
to  pay  a  head  tax.  If  they  could  not  raise  the  money,  they  were 
obligated  to  work  for  the  government  for  half  of  each  year  without 
wages. 

The  colonial  administration  stringently  applied  the  requirements 
for  assimilation.  In  1950,  of  an  estimated  African  population  of 
4  million  in  Angola  (according  to  an  official  census  that  probably 
provided  more  accurate  figures  than  previous  estimates),  there  were 
fewer  than  31,000  assimilados.  But  instead  of  elevating  the  status 
of  Africans,  the  policy  of  assimilation  maintained  them  in  a  degrad- 
ed status.  The  colonial  administration  required  indigenas  to  carry 
identification  cards,  of  major  importance  psychologically  to  the  Afri- 
cans and  politically  to  the  Portuguese,  who  were  thus  more  easily 
able  to  control  the  African  population. 

The  authoritarian  Salazar  regime  frequently  used  African  in- 
formants to  ferret  out  signs  of  political  dissidence.  Censorship,  bor- 
der control,  police  action,  and  control  of  education  all  retarded  the 
development  of  African  leadership.  Africans  studying  in  Portugal — 
and  therefore  exposed  to  "progressive"  ideas — were  sometimes 
prevented  from  returning  home.  Political  offenses  brought  severe 
penalties,  and  the  colonial  administration  viewed  African  organi- 
zations with  extreme  disfavor. 

Rise  of  African  Nationalism 

In  the  1940s  and  1950s,  African  acquiescence  to  Portuguese  col- 
onization began  to  weaken,  particularly  in  the  provinces  bordering 


23 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

the  Belgian  Congo  and  in  Luanda,  where  far-reaching  changes  in 
world  politics  influenced  a  small  number  of  Africans.  The  associa- 
tions they  formed  and  the  aspirations  they  shared  paved  the  way 
for  the  liberation  movements  of  the  1960s. 

The  colonial  system  had  created  a  dichotomy  among  the  Afri- 
can population  that  corresponded  to  that  of  the  Portuguese  social 
structure — the  elite  versus  the  masses.  Within  the  context  of  the 
burgeoning  nationalist  struggle,  competition  developed  between 
the  small,  multiracial  class  of  educated  and  semi-educated  town 
inhabitants  and  the  rural,  uneducated  black  peasantry  that  formed 
the  majority  of  Angola's  population.  At  the  same  time,  black 
Angolans  identified  strongly  with  their  precolonial  ethnic  and 
regional  origins.  By  the  1950s,  the  influence  of  class  and  ethnicity 
had  resulted  in  three  major  sources  of  Angolan  nationalism.  The 
first,  the  Mbundu,  who  inhabited  Luanda  and  the  surrounding 
regions,  had  a  predominantly  urban,  elite  leadership,  while  the 
Bakongo  and  Ovimbundu  peoples  had  rural,  peasant  orientations. 
The  major  nationalist  movements  that  emerged  from  these  three 
groups— the  MPLA,  the  FNLA,  and  UNITA— each  claimed  to 
represent  the  entire  Angolan  population.  Before  long,  these  move- 
ments became  bitter  rivals  as  the  personal  ambitions  of  their  lead- 
ers, in  addition  to  differences  in  political  ideology  and  competition 
for  foreign  aid,  added  to  their  ethnic  differences  (see  Ethnic  Groups 
and  Languages,  ch.  2). 

Roots  of  Discontent 

Portugal's  assimilationist  policy  had  produced  a  small  group  of 
educated  Africans  who  considered  themselves  Portuguese.  But  as 
this  group  recognized  that  it  was  not  fully  respected  by  the  Por- 
tuguese and  as  it  became  increasingly  aware  of  its  alienation  from 
its  traditional  origins,  some  members  began  to  articulate  resent- 
ment, both  of  their  own  ambiguous  social  and  cultural  situations 
and  of  the  plight  of  the  nonassimilated  majority  of  Africans.  From 
among  their  ranks  emerged  most  of  the  first  generation  of  libera- 
tion movement  leaders. 

The  influx  of  rural  Africans  to  towns  also  bred  anticolonial  resent- 
ment. In  the  1950s,  the  population  of  Luanda  almost  doubled,  and 
most  of  the  growth  was  among  Africans.  Lured  by  the  expectation 
of  work,  Africans  in  towns  became  aware  of  the  inequality  of 
opportunities  between  Europeans  and  Africans.  The  compulsory 
labor  system  that  many  had  experienced  in  rural  areas  was  regarded 
as  the  most  onerous  aspect  of  Portuguese  rule.  More  than  any  other 
factor,  this  system,  which  was  not  abolished  until  1962,  united  many 
Africans  in  resentment  of  Portuguese  rule. 


24 


Under  the  Salazar  regime, 
Angolans  who  neither  spoke 

Portuguese  nor  behaved  as 
Europeans,  like  this  mother 

and  child,  were  classified 
as  indfgenas. 
Courtesy  Richard  J.  Hough 


The  Salazar  government's  settlement  policies  contributed  to  the 
spread  of  anticolonial  resentment,  especially  after  1945.  These  poli- 
cies resulted  in  increased  competition  for  employment  and  grow- 
ing racial  friction.  Between  1955  and  1960,  for  example,  the 
government  brought  from  Portugal  and  the  Cape  Verde  Islands 
more  than  55,000  whites.  Induced  to  emigrate  by  government 
promises  of  money  and  free  houses,  these  peasants  settied  on  colonatos 
(large  agricultural  communities).  Many  immigrants  to  the  colona- 
tos were  unskilled  at  farming,  often  lacked  an  elementary  educa- 
tion, or  were  too  old  for  vigorous  manual  labor.  Consequently, 
many  of  them  were  unsuccessful  on  the  colonatos  and,  after  a  time, 
moved  to  towns  where  they  competed  with  Africans,  often  success- 
fully, for  skilled  and  unskilled  jobs.  The  Portuguese  who  held  jobs 
of  lower  social  status  often  felt  it  all  the  more  necessary  to  claim 
social  superiority  over  the  Africans. 

External  events  also  played  a  role  in  the  development  of  the 
independence  movements.  While  most  European  powers  were 
preparing  to  grant  independence  to  their  African  colonies,  the  Sala- 
zar regime  was  seeking  to  reassert  its  grasp  on  its  colonies,  as  wit- 
nessed by  the  effort  it  expended  in  the  ill-fated  colonato  system. 

There  were  two  basic  patterns  in  the  rise  of  nationalism  in 
Angola.  In  one  case,  African  assimilados  and  other  urban  Africans 
with  some  education  joined  urban  mestiqos  and  whites  in  associa- 
tions based  on  the  assumption  that  their  interests  were  different 


25 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

from,  and  perhaps  in  competition  with,  those  of  the  majority  of 
the  African  population  still  attached  to  their  rural  communities. 
Angolans  also  formed  organizations  based  on  ethnic  or  religious 
groupings  that  encompassed  or  at  least  sought  to  include  rural  Afri- 
cans, although  the  leaders  of  these  organizations  often  had  some 
education  and  urban  experience. 

African  Associations 

The  beginnings  of  African  associations,  to  which  the  liberation 
movement  traced  its  roots,  remained  obscure  in  1988.  Luanda  was 
known  to  have  had  recreational  societies,  burial  clubs,  and  other 
mutual  aid  associations  in  the  early  1900s.  After  the  Portuguese 
republican  constitution  of  1911  increased  freedoms  of  the  press, 
opinion,  and  association  in  the  African  colonies,  a  number  of  Afri- 
can associations  were  formed,  including  the  Lisbon-based  African 
League  in  1919.  Sponsored  and  financed  by  the  Portuguese  govern- 
ment, pardy  in  response  to  pressure  from  the  League  of  Nations 
with  which  African  League  leaders  had  established  contacts,  the 
African  League  was  a  federation  of  all  African  associations  from 
Portuguese  Africa.  Its  avowed  purpose  was  to  point  out  to  the  Por- 
tuguese government  injustices  or  harsh  laws  that  ought  to  be 
repealed.  In  1923  the  African  League  organized  the  second  ses- 
sion of  the  Third  Pan- African  Congress  in  Lisbon. 

Assimilados  (mestigo  and  African)  dominated  most  associations, 
and  their  membership  seldom  included  uneducated  Africans. 
Because  the  associations  were  under  close  Portuguese  control,  their 
members  were  unable  to  express  the  full  extent  of  their  discontent 
with  the  colonial  system.  As  a  result,  extralegal,  politically  oriented 
African  associations  began  to  appear  in  the  1950s.  Far-reaching 
economic  and  social  changes,  the  growth  of  the  white  settler  popu- 
lation, increased  urbanization  of  Africans,  and  the  beginnings  of 
nationalist  movements  in  other  parts  of  Africa  contributed  to  the 
growth  of  anticolonial  feeling.  In  1952  some  500  Angolan  Africans 
appealed  to  the  United  Nations  (UN)  in  a  petition  protesting  what 
they  called  the  injustices  of  Portuguese  policy  and  requesting  that 
steps  be  taken  to  end  Portuguese  rule. 

The  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 

The  earliest  anticolonialist  political  group  in  Angola,  founded 
about  1953,  was  the  Party  of  the  United  Struggle  of  Africans  of 
Angola  (Partido  da  Luta  Unida  dos  Africanos  de  Angola — PLUA). 
In  December  1956,  the  PLUA  combined  with  other  organizations 
in  Luanda  to  form  the  MPLA,  whose  aim  was  to  achieve  indepen- 
dence for  Angola  by  means  of  a  united  front  of  all  African  interests. 


26 


Historical  Setting 


After  many  of  its  leaders  were  arrested  in  March  1959,  the  party 
moved  its  headquarters  to  Conakry,  Guinea.  The  MPLA's  first 
leader,  Mario  de  Andrade,  an  educated  mestiqo  and  a  poet,  gave 
the  party  a  reputation  for  representing  primarily  the  interests  of 
urban  intellectuals  rather  than  the  indigenous  masses. 

The  MPLA  traces  its  Marxist-Leninist  origins  to  its  ties  with 
the  clandestine  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunis- 
ta  Portugues — PCP).  The  initial  MPLA  manifesto  called  for  an 
end  to  colonialism  and  the  building  of  a  modern  society  free  of 
prejudice,  a  goal  that  could  be  realized  only  after  a  lengthy  period 
of  political  preparation  followed  by  a  revolutionary  struggle.  The 
MPLA  leadership  sought  a  definite  direction  and  a  set  of  objec- 
tives for  the  independence  struggle,  in  contrast  with  the  broad 
nationalist  approach  of  its  greatest  rival  for  supremacy  in  the  strug- 
gle, the  FNLA.  Thus,  the  MPLA's  program,  outlined  in  a  policy 
document  in  the  1960s,  avoided  a  stated  commitment  to  socialism 
or  Marxism-Leninism,  but  it  clearly  alluded  to  the  movement's 
adherence  to  Marxist-Leninist  principles  and  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment. The  organization's  leftist  orientation  attracted  the  support 
of  the  Soviet  Union  and  China,  both  of  which  envisioned  prospects 
for  a  foothold  in  Africa  provided  by  a  ruling  Marxist-Leninist  van- 
guard party. 

The  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 

The  FNLA  was  founded  in  1954  as  the  Union  of  Peoples  of 
Northern  Angola  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  do  Norte  de  Angola — 
UPNA).  Founded  to  advance  the  interests  of  the  Bakongo  rather 
than  to  promote  independence,  the  UPNA  petitioned  the  UN  in 
1957  for  restoration  of  the  Kongo  Kingdom,  an  objective  shared 
by  the  Alliance  of  Bakongo  (Alliance  des  Bakongo — Abako)  in  the 
Belgian  Congo  (present-day  Zaire;  see  Kongo  Kingdom,  this  ch.). 
Because  of  important  ties  to  the  Bakongo  in  the  Belgian  colony  and 
because  of  the  difficulties  of  operating  in  Angola,  the  UPNA  was 
based  in  Leopoldville  (present-day  Kinshasa,  capital  of  Zaire).  In 
1958,  acknowledging  the  futility  of  its  quest,  the  UPNA  adopted 
the  title  Union  of  Angolan  Peoples  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  de 
Angola — UPA)  and  the  aim  of  independence  for  all  of  Angola. 

Organizational  Weaknesses 

The  Angolan  African  organizations  active  before  1961  were  dis- 
organized and  lacked  resources,  membership,  and  strong  leader- 
ship. There  were  a  number  of  reasons  for  these  weaknesses.  First, 
their  members  were  not  prepared  for  either  a  political  or  a  mili- 
tary struggle  during  the  1950s,  however  attractive  they  may  have 


27 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

found  nationalist  ideals.  Second,  they  were  divided  socially  as  well 
as  ethnically.  There  were  gulfs  between  the  mestigos  and  the  assimila- 
dos,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  indigenas,  on  the  other  hand,  that 
frequentiy  resulted  in  the  pursuit  of  different  goals.  Third,  although 
a  substantial  proportion  of  the  white  community  also  wanted  Angola 
to  break  away  from  Portuguese  domination,  it  hoped  to  perpetu- 
ate the  colonial  regime  in  every  aspect  except  its  control  by  Lisbon. 

Finally,  there  was  a  critical  lack  of  capable  black  leaders  in  the 
1950s.  The  newly  developing  elite  was  not  large  enough  to  run  a 
nationalist  movement,  and  traditional  leaders,  focused  on  ethnic 
issues,  were  not  prepared  to  lead  such  a  movement.  Church  lead- 
ers, who  might  have  been  capable  as  national  movement  leaders, 
did  not  enter  the  struggle  unless  disaffected  or  until  they  became 
targets  of  police  repression. 

Beginning  of  Revolution 

After  1959,  as  several  African  states  won  their  independence, 
anticolonial  sentiment  intensified  in  Portugal's  overseas  territories. 
The  Portuguese  met  this  sentiment  with  stiffening  opposition 
characterized  by  increasing  surveillance  and  frequent  arrests.  In 
December  1959,  the  Portuguese  secret  political  police,  the  Inter- 
national Police  for  the  Defense  of  the  State  (Policia  Internacional 
de  Defesa  de  Estado — PIDE),  arrested  fifty-seven  persons  in  Lu- 
anda who  were  suspected  of  being  involved  in  antigovernment  po- 
litical activities.  Among  those  arrested  were  a  few  Europeans, 
assimilados,  and  other  Africans.  After  this  incident,  the  Portuguese 
military  in  Angola  reinforced  its  position,  particularly  in  the  north- 
western provinces,  and  became  increasingly  repressive. 

In  the  first  months  of  1961,  tensions  came  to  a  head.  A  group 
of  alleged  MPLA  members  attacked  police  stations  and  prisons  in 
an  attempt  to  free  African  political  prisoners.  Then,  a  group  of 
disgruntled  cotton  workers  in  Malanje  Province  attacked  govern- 
ment officials  and  buildings  and  a  Catholic  mission.  In  the  wake 
of  further  sporadic  violence,  many  wealthy  Portuguese  repatriat- 
ed. They  left  behind  them  the  poor  whites  who  were  unable  to  leave 
on  short  notice  but  who  were  ready  to  take  the  law  into  their  own 
hands. 

The  violence  spread  to  the  northwest,  where  over  the  course  of 
two  days  Bakongo  (thought  by  some  to  have  been  UPA  members) 
in  Uige  Province  attacked  isolated  farmsteads  and  towns  in  a  ser- 
ies of  forty  coordinated  raids,  killing  hundreds  of  Europeans.  Also 
involved  in  the  rural  uprisings  were  non-Bakongo  in  parts  of  Cuanza 
Norte  Province.  During  the  next  few  months,  violence  spread  north- 
ward toward  the  border  with  the  former  Belgian  Congo  as  the 


28 


Historical  Setting 


Portuguese  put  pressure  on  the  rebels.  Although  it  had  not  begun 
that  way,  as  time  passed  the  composition  of  the  rebel  groups  became 
almost  exclusively  Bakongo. 

The  Portuguese  reacted  to  the  uprising  with  violence.  Settlers 
organized  into  vigilante  committees,  and  reprisals  for  the  rebel- 
lion went  uncontrolled  by  civilian  and  military  authorities.  The 
whites'  treatment  of  Africans  was  as  brutal  and  as  arbitrary  as  had 
been  that  of  the  Africans  toward  them.  Fear  pervaded  the  coun- 
try, driving  an  even  deeper  wedge  between  the  races. 

The  loss  of  Africans  as  a  result  of  the  1961  uprisings  has  been 
estimated  as  high  as  40,000,  many  of  whom  died  from  disease  or 
because  of  famine;  about  400  Europeans  were  killed,  as  well  as  many 
assimilados  and  Africans  deemed  sympathetic  to  colonial  authori- 
ties. By  summer  the  Portuguese  had  reduced  the  area  controlled 
by  the  rebels  to  one-half  its  original  extent,  but  major  pockets  of 
resistance  remained.  Portuguese  forces,  relying  heavily  on  air 
power,  attacked  many  villages.  The  result  was  the  mass  exodus 
of  Africans  toward  what  is  now  Zaire. 

In  an  effort  to  head  off  future  violence,  in  the  early  1960s  the 
Salazar  regime  initiated  a  program  to  develop  Angola's  economic 
infrastructure.  The  Portuguese  government  increased  the  paved 
road  network  by  500  percent,  stimulated  the  development  of  domes- 
tic air  routes,  provided  emergency  aid  to  the  coffee  producers,  and 
abolished  compulsory  cotton  cultivation.  To  reestablish  confidence 
among  Africans  and  among  those  who  had  been  subject  to  reprisals 
by  white  settlers,  the  military  initiated  a  campaign  under  which 
it  resettled  African  refugees  into  village  compounds  and  provided 
them  with  medical,  recreational,  and  some  educational  facilities. 

The  uprisings  attracted  worldwide  attention.  In  mid- 1961  the 
UN  General  Assembly  appointed  a  subcommittee  to  investigate 
the  situation  in  Angola,  and  it  produced  a  report  unfavorable  to 
Portuguese  rule.  The  events  also  helped  mobilize  the  various  liber- 
ation groups  to  renewed  action. 

Angolan  Insurgency 

The  rebels  who  had  coordinated  the  1961  uprisings  later  began 
to  undertake  effective  military  organization.  The  several  nation- 
alist organizations  set  up  training  camps  and  attracted  external  mili- 
tary aid.  In  the  summer  of  1961,  for  example,  the  UP  A,  which 
had  strong  support  among  the  Bakongo,  formed  the  National  Liber- 
ation Army  of  Angola  (Exercito  de  Libertacao  Nacional  de 
Angola — ELNA),  a  force  of  about  5,000  untrained  and  poorly 
armed  troops.  Subsequently,  groups  of  Angolans  went  to  Moroc- 
co and  Tunisia  to  train  with  Algerian  forces,  then  fighting  for 


29 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

their  own  nation's  independence.  After  winning  its  independence 
in  1962,  Algeria  supplied  the  ELNA  with  arms  and  ammunition. 

In  March  1962,  the  UPA  joined  with  another  small  Kongo 
nationalist  group,  the  Democratic  Party  of  Angola  (Partido 
Democratico  de  Angola— PDA)  to  form  the  FNLA.  The  FNLA 
immediately  proclaimed  the  Revolutionary  Government  of  Ango- 
la in  Exile  (Governo  Revolucionario  de  Angola  no  Exilo — GRAE). 
The  president  of  the  FNLA/GRAE,  Holden  Roberto,  declared  his 
organization  to  be  the  sole  authority  in  charge  of  anti-Portuguese 
military  operations  inside  Angola.  Consequently,  he  repeatedly 
refused  to  merge  his  organization  with  any  other  budding  nation- 
alist movement,  preferring  to  build  the  FNLA/GRAE  into  an  all- 
Angolan  mass  movement  over  which  he  would  preside. 

By  1963,  with  training  and  arms  from  Algeria,  bases  in  Zaire, 
and  funds  from  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),  the 
FNLA/GRAE  military  and  political  organization  was  becoming 
formidable.  Still,  it  made  no  significant  territorial  gains. 

Meanwhile,  the  MPLA,  which  had  been  behind  the  initial 
uprisings  in  Luanda  in  February  1961,  had  suffered  a  great  deal 
from  Portuguese  reprisals,  with  many  of  its  militant  leaders  dead 
or  in  prison.  The  rebuilding  of  the  MPLA  was  substantially  aided 
in  1962  by  the  arrival  of  Agostinho  Neto,  an  assimilated  Mbundu 
physician  who  had  spent  several  years  in  jail  for  expressing  his 
political  views  and  had  recently  escaped  from  detention  in  Portu- 
gal. Neto  attempted  to  bring  together  the  MPLA  and  Roberto's 
FNLA/GRAE,  but  his  efforts  were  thwarted  by  Roberto's  insis- 
tence that  his  organization  represented  all  Angolans. 

Initially  based  in  Kinshasa,  as  was  the  FNLA/GRAE,  in  1963 
the  MPLA  shifted  its  headquarters  to  Brazzaville  (in  present-day 
Congo)  because  of  Roberto's  close  ties  to  Zairian  president  Mobutu 
Sese  Seko.  From  Brazzaville,  the  MPLA  launched  small  guerrilla 
operations  in  Cabinda,  but  the  movement  was  militarily  far  weaker 
than  the  FNLA.  Moreover,  it  lacked  an  operations  base  from  which 
it  could  reach  the  densely  populated  north  and  center  of  Angola. 

As  it  dragged  on  into  1964  and  1965,  the  conflict  became 
stalemated.  Hampered  by  insufficient  financial  assistance,  the  in- 
surgents were  unable  to  maintain  offensive  operations  against  a 
fully  equipped  Portuguese  military  force  that  had  increased  to  a 
strength  of  more  than  40,000.  The  FNLA  settled  into  a  mountain 
stronghold  straddling  the  border  of  Uige  and  Zaire  provinces  and 
continued  to  carry  on  guerrilla  activities.  The  insurgents  found  it 
increasingly  difficult  to  sustain  the  cohesion  they  had  achieved  after 
1961  and  1962.  Between  1963  and  1965,  differences  in  leadership, 
programs,  and  following  between  the  FNLA  and  the  MPLA  led 


30 


Historical  Setting 


to  open  hostilities  that  seriously  weakened  each  group's  strength 
and  effectiveness. 

Ascendancy  of  the  MPLA 

In  1964  the  MPLA  reorganized  and  increased  its  efforts  to  rein- 
force its  units  fighting  in  the  Dembos  areas.  The  improved  effi- 
ciency of  the  movement's  political  and  military  operations  attracted 
support  from  other  African  countries,  the  OAU,  and  several  non- 
African  countries,  all  of  which  had  previously  scorned  the  MPLA 
because  of  its  internal  problems. 

The  growing  military  success  of  the  MPLA  in  the  mid-1960s 
was  largely  the  product  of  support  from  the  governments  of  Tan- 
zania and  Zambia,  which  permitted  the  organization  to  open  offices 
in  their  capitals.  More  important,  Tanzania  and  Zambia  allowed 
the  transport  of  Chinese  and  Soviet  weapons  across  their  territo- 
ries to  the  Angolan  border.  Because  of  the  influx  of  weapons,  in 
1965  the  MPLA  was  able  to  open  a  military  front  in  eastern  Angola, 
from  which  it  launched  a  major  offensive  the  following  year.  By 
this  time,  the  MPLA  had  become  a  greater  threat  to  Portugal's 
colonial  rule  than  the  FNLA. 

In  June  1966,  the  MPLA  supported  an  unsuccessful  coup  against 
President  Marien  Ngouabi  of  Congo,  whereupon  activities  of  all 
guerrilla  groups  in  Brazzaville  were  curtailed.  After  the  MPLA 
moved  its  headquarters  to  Lusaka,  Zambia,  in  1968,  it  conducted 
intensive  guerrilla  warfare  in  the  Angolan  provinces  of  Moxico  and 
Cuando  Cubango. 

Beginning  in  1969,  attacks  in  Lunda  and  Bie  provinces  forced 
the  Portuguese  to  resettle  many  inhabitants  of  these  areas  in  forti- 
fied villages.  Wherever  MPLA  guerrillas  were  in  control,  they 
created  new  political  structures,  mainly  village  action  committees. 
Politically  indoctrinated  MPLA  guerrillas,  some  of  whom  had 
received  military  training  in  Eastern  Europe,  ranged  all  over  eastern 
Angola.  By  1968  the  MPLA  was  able  to  hold  regional  party  con- 
ferences inside  the  country. 

The  MPLA  had  a  political  advantage  over  the  FNLA  because 
of  the  links  of  MPLA  leaders  to  the  international  ideological  left. 
Its  multiracial,  Marxist-Leninist,  and  nationalist  (versus  ethnic  or 
regional)  views  appealed  to  liberals  in  Europe  and  North  Ameri- 
ca. Because  of  his  radical  orientation,  however,  Neto  failed  to  get 
help  from  the  United  States.  During  the  mid-1960s,  the  MPLA's 
ties  to  the  communist  world  intensified  as  MPLA  military  cadres 
traveled  to  the  Soviet  Union,  Czechoslovakia,  and  Bulgaria.  Be- 
ginning in  1965,  the  MPLA  began  to  receive  training  from  Cuban 
forces. 


31 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Emergence  of  UNITA 

The  MPLA  and  FNLA  faced  a  third  competitor  beginning  in 
1966  with  the  emergence  of  UNITA.  UNITA  first  came  to  inter- 
national attention  when,  in  December  1966,  a  group  of  its  guer- 
rillas attacked  the  town  of  Vila  Teixeira  de  Sousa  (renamed  Luau), 
succeeding  in  interrupting  the  Benguela  Railway  and  stopping  Zam- 
bian  and  Zairian  copper  shipments  for  a  week.  The  new  organiza- 
tion was  formed  by  Jonas  Savimbi,  the  former  foreign  minister  and 
main  representative  of  the  Ovimbundu  within  the  FNLA/GRAE, 
whose  disagreements  with  Roberto  over  policy  issues  led  to  Savim- 
bi's  resignation  in  July  1964.  Savimbi  had  traveled  to  China  in 

1965,  where  he  and  several  of  his  followers  received  four  months 
of  military  training  and  became  disciples  of  Maoism.  Perhaps  the 
strongest  impact  of  Maoism  on  UNITA  has  been  Savimbi' s  insis- 
tence on  self-sufficiency  and  maintenance  of  the  organization's 
leadership  within  Angolan  borders.  Upon  his  return  to  Angola  in 

1966,  Savimbi  turned  down  an  invitation  from  the  MPLA  to  join 
its  organization  as  a  rank-and-file  member  and  moved  UNITA  into 
the  bush,  where  the  organization  began  its  guerrilla  war  with  a 
small  amount  of  Chinese  military  aid  transported  via  Tanzania  and 
Zambia. 

Although  UNITA  lacked  educated  cadres  and  arms,  it  attract- 
ed the  largest  following  of  the  three  movements  from  the  Ovim- 
bundu, who  comprised  about  one- third  of  the  population.  And, 
unlike  the  MPLA  and  FNLA,  UNITA  enjoyed  the  benefits  of  a 
unified  and  unchallenged  leadership  directed  by  Savimbi. 
Moreover,  in  contrast  to  the  m^V°"dominated,  urban-based 
MPLA,  Savimbi  presented  UNITA  as  the  representative  of  black 
peasants.  UNITA 's  constitution  proclaimed  that  the  movement 
would  strive  for  a  government  proportionally  representative  of  all 
ethnic  groups,  clans,  and  classes.  His  Maoist-oriented  philosophy 
led  Savimbi  to  concentrate  on  raising  the  political  consciousness 
of  the  peasants,  most  of  whom  were  illiterate  and  widely  dispersed. 
Savimbi  preached  self-reliance  and  founded  cooperatives  for  food 
production  and  village  self-defense  units.  He  set  up  a  pyramidal 
structure  of  elected  councils  grouping  up  to  sixteen  villages  that — at 
least  in  theory— articulated  demands  through  a  political  commis- 
sar to  a  central  committee,  whose  thirty-five  members  were  to  be 
chosen  every  four  years  at  a  congress. 

In  the  early  1970s,  UNITA  began  infiltrating  the  major  popu- 
lation centers,  slowly  expanding  its  area  of  influence  westward  be- 
yond Bie.  There,  however,  it  collided  with  the  eastward  thrust  of 
the  MPLA,  which  was  sending  Soviet-trained  political  cadres 


32 


Agostinho  Neto,  Angola's  first  president,  delivers  a  speech 

on  independence  day. 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (J.  P.  Laffont) 


to  work  among  the  Ovimbundu  and  specifically  with  the  Chokwe, 
Lwena,  Luchazi,  and  Lunda,  exploiting  potential  ethnic  antagon- 
isms (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages,  ch.  2). 

On  the  eve  of  independence,  UNITA  controlled  many  of  the 
rich,  food-producing  central  and  southern  provinces  and  was  there- 
fore able  to  regulate  the  flow  of  food  to  the  rest  of  the  country. 
At  the  time,  it  claimed  the  allegiance  of  about  40  percent  of  the 
population. 

Liberation  Movements  in  Cabinda 

Several  movements  advocating  a  separate  status  for  Cabinda  were 
founded  in  the  early  1960s,  all  of  them  basing  their  claims  on  their 
own  interpretation  of  Cabindan  history.  The  most  important  of 
these  was  the  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Enclave  of 
Cabinda  (Mouvement  pour  la  Liberation  de  1' Enclave  de 
Cabinda — MLEC),  led  by  Luis  Ranque  Franque,  which  had 
evolved  out  of  various  emigre  associations  in  Brazzaville.  In 
December  1961 ,  a  faction  of  the  MLEC  headed  by  Henriques  Tiago 
Nzita  seceded  to  form  the  Action  Committee  for  the  National  Union 
of  Cabindans  (Comite  d'Action  d'Union  Nationale  des  Cabin- 
dais — CAUNC).  A  third  group,  Alliance  of  Mayombe  (Alliance 
de  Mayombe — Alliama),  led  by  Antonio  Eduardo  Sozinho, 


33 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

represented  the  Mayombe  (also  spelled  Maiombe),  the  ethnic 
minority  of  the  enclave's  interior.  The  three  groups  resolved  their 
differences  and  united  in  1963  as  the  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
the  Enclave  of  Cabinda  (Frente  para  a  Libertacao  do  Enclave  de 
Cabinda — FLEG).  When  the  MPLA  began  its  military  incursions 
into  Cabinda  in  1964,  it  encountered  hostility  not  only  from  coastal 
members  of  FLEC  who  were  living  in  and  near  the  town  of  Cabinda 
but  also  from  Mayombe  peasants,  whose  region  near  the  Congo 
frontier  MPLA  guerrillas  had  to  cross. 

Emulating  the  FNLA,  FLEC  created  a  government  in  exile  on 
January  10,  1967,  in  the  border  town  of  Tshela  in  Zaire.  Reflect- 
ing earlier  divisions,  however,  the  faction  headed  by  Nzita  es- 
tablished the  Revolutionary  Cabindan  Committee  (Comite 
Revolutionnaire  Cabindais)  in  the  Congolese  town  of  Pointe  Noire. 

Portuguese  Economic  Interests  and  Resistance  to  Angolan 
Independence 

Portugal's  motivation  to  fight  Angolan  nationalism  was  based 
on  economic  factors.  Salazar  had  instituted  an  economic  system 
in  1935  that  was  designed  to  exploit  the  colonies  for  the  benefit 
of  Portugal  by  excluding  or  strictly  limiting  foreign  investments. 
But  by  April  1965,  Portugal  faced  increasing  defense  expenditures 
in  order  to  resist  the  growing  military  strength  of  the  nationalist 
movements,  the  MPLA  in  particular.  This  turn  of  events  forced 
Salazar  to  permit  the  influx  of  foreign  capital,  which  resulted  in 
rapid  economic  growth  in  Angola. 

One  of  the  most  lucrative  foreign  investments  was  made  by  the 
Cabinda  Gulf  Oil  Company  (Cabgoc),  a  subsidiary  of  the  United 
States-based  company  Gulf  Oil  (now  Chevron),  which  found  oil 
in  the  waters  off  Cabinda.  Other  economic  concerns  included  iron, 
diamonds,  and  the  manufacturing  sector,  all  of  which  experienced 
an  enormous  increase  in  production  from  the  mid-1960s  to  1974 
(see  Background  to  Economic  Development,  ch.  3).  By  this  time, 
Angola  had  become  far  more  valuable  economically  to  Portugal 
than  Mozambique  or  any  of  its  other  colonies.  Consequently, 
Angola's  economic  growth  reinforced  Portugal's  determination  to 
refuse  Angolan  independence. 

One  of  the  most  far-reaching  and  damaging  features  of  the  Por- 
tuguese counterinsurgency  was  the  implementation  of  a  resettle- 
ment program  in  1967.  By  grouping  dispersed  Africans  into  large 
villages  organized  by  the  military  in  eastern  and  northwestern 
Angola,  the  Portuguese  hoped  to  achieve  organized  local  defense 
against  guerrilla  attacks  and  to  prevent  insurgent  infiltration  and 
mobilization  among  peasants.  Outside  the  fighting  zones,  the 


34 


Historical  Setting 


Portuguese  used  resettlement  villages  to  promote  economic  and  so- 
cial development  as  a  means  of  winning  African  support.  The  Por- 
tuguese further  controlled  the  African  population  by  establishing 
a  network  of  spies  and  informers  in  each  resettlement  village. 

By  1974  more  than  1  million  peasants  had  been  moved  into  reset- 
dement  villages.  The  widespread  disruption  in  rural  Angola  caused 
by  the  resettlement  program,  which  failed  to  stop  the  insurgency, 
had  profound  and  long-term  effects  on  the  rural  population.  The 
breakdown  in  the  agricultural  sector  in  particular  was  so  perva- 
sive that  rural  reconstruction  and  development  in  independent 
Angola  had,  as  of  1988,  never  really  succeeded. 

The  Portuguese  armed  forces  gained  an  advantage  over  the 
insurgents  by  the  end  of  1973  through  the  use  of  napalm  and  defoli- 
ants. The  MPLA  suffered  the  most  from  counterinsurgency  oper- 
ations, which  were  concentrated  in  the  east,  where  the  MPLA  had 
its  greatest  strength.  The  MPLA's  military  failures  also  caused  fur- 
ther conflicts  between  its  political  and  military  wings,  as  guerrilla 
commanders  blamed  the  MPLA  political  leadership  for  the  organi- 
zation's declining  military  fortunes.  In  addition,  the  Soviet  Union's 
support  for  Neto  was  never  wholehearted. 

The  FNLA,  which  fought  from  Zairian  bases,  made  litde  progress 
inside  Angola.  Furthermore,  the  Kinshasa  government,  reacting 
to  a  1969  Portuguese  raid  on  a  Zairian  border  village  that  the  FNLA 
used  as  a  staging  base,  shut  down  three  border  camps,  making  it 
even  more  difficult  for  the  FNLA  to  launch  actions  into  Angola. 
Moreover,  internal  dissent  among  FNLA  troops  exploded  into  a 
mutiny  in  1972;  Mobutu  sent  Zairian  troops  to  suppress  the  muti- 
ny and  save  his  friend  Roberto  from  being  overthrown.  Although 
the  Zairian  army  reorganized,  retrained,  and  equipped  FNLA  guer- 
rillas in  the  aftermath  of  the  mutiny,  the  FNLA  never  posed  a  seri- 
ous threat  to  the  Portuguese. 

UNITA  was  also  suffering  from  a  variety  of  problems  by  the 
end  of  1973.  Militarily  it  was  the  weakest  nationalist  movement. 
The  organization's  military  arm  lacked  sufficient  weaponry.  Many 
of  its  Chokwe  members,  who  did  not  have  the  ethnic  loyalty  to 
the  organization  felt  by  the  Ovimbundu,  went  over  to  the  better- 
armed  FNLA  and  MPLA. 

The  Portuguese  Coup  d'Etat  and  the  End  of  the  Colonial  Era 

During  the  early  1970s,  its  African  wars — including  fierce 
nationalist  struggles  in  Mozambique  and  Guinea-Bissau — were 
draining  Portugal's  resources.  By  1974  the  Portuguese  had  lost 
11,000  military  personnel  in  Africa.  On  April  25,  1974,  a  group 
of  disillusioned  military  officers,  led  by  the  former  governor  and 


35 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

commander  in  Guinea-Bissau,  General  Antonio  de  Spinola,  over- 
threw the  Lisbon  government. 

On  July  14,  Spmola  acceded  to  the  wishes  of  officers  who  favored 
independence  for  the  Portuguese  territories  in  Africa  and  promised 
to  take  steps  toward  their  freedom.  At  the  end  of  July,  Spinola 
appointed  Admiral  Rosa  Coutinho  as  head  of  a  military  council 
formed  to  oversee  Angola's  independence.  Also  during  this  time, 
UNITA  and  the  MPLA  signed  cease-fire  agreements  with  Portu- 
gal; the  FNLA  initially  moved  military  units  into  northern  Angola, 
but  later  it  too  signed  a  cease-fire.  The  liberation  movements  set 
up  offices  in  the  major  population  centers  of  the  country,  eager 
to  mobilize  support  and  gain  political  control. 

The  approximately  335,000  whites  in  Angola,  who  had  no  po- 
litical experience  and  organization  under  years  of  Portuguese 
authoritarian  rule,  were  unable  to  assert  a  unilateral  independence. 
In  addition,  their  security  was  severely  threatened  as  the  new 
Spinola  government  began  releasing  political  prisoners  and  autho- 
rized Angolans  to  organize,  assemble,  and  speak  freely.  In  July 
1974,  white  frustration  exploded  into  violence  as  Luandan  whites 
rioted,  pillaged,  and  massacred  African  slum  dwellers.  The  Por- 
tuguese army  quickly  suppressed  the  riot,  but  when  the  Portuguese 
government  announced  that  it  intended  to  form  a  provisional  An- 
golan government  that  would  include  representatives  of  both  the 
nationalist  movements  and  the  white  population,  further  rioting 
by  whites  erupted  in  Luanda. 

Coalition,  the  Transitional  Government,  and  Civil  War 

In  the  wake  of  the  coup  in  Portugal,  there  remained  a  wide  split 
in  the  Angolan  nationalist  movement.  Lisbon  was  anxious  to  relin- 
quish power  to  a  unified  government  and  took  an  active  role  in 
bringing  about  a  reconciliation  of  the  three  liberation  movements. 
In  addition,  at  the  urgings  of  the  OAU,  Neto,  Roberto,  and 
Savimbi  made  several  attempts  to  form  a  common  front.  At  a  meet- 
ing in  Kenya  in  early  January  1975,  they  recognized  their  parties 
as  independent  entities  with  equal  rights  and  responsibilities,  agreed 
that  a  period  of  transition  was  necessary  before  independence  could 
be  achieved  (during  which  they  would  work  with  the  Portuguese 
to  lay  the  foundation  for  an  independent  Angola),  and  pledged  to 
maintain  Angolan  territorial  integrity.  They  also  agreed  that  only 
their  three  organizations  would  be  included  in  a  unity  government. 
FLEC,  with  its  goal  of  a  Cabindan  secession,  did  not  support  ter- 
ritorial integrity  and  was  excluded.  In  addition,  an  MPLA  splinter 
group  led  by  Daniel  Chipenda  was  not  considered  a  legitimate 
nationalist  movement,  and  it  too  was  excluded. 


36 


Angolans  celebrating  independence  in  the  streets  of  Luanda, 

November  1975 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (J.  P.  Laffont) 


37 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Meeting  in  Alvor,  Portugal,  on  January  10,  the  Lisbon  govern- 
ment and  the  nationalist  movements  produced  an  agreement 
setting  independence  for  November  11,  1975.  Under  the  Alvor 
Agreement,  a  transitional  government  headed  by  a  Portuguese  high 
commissioner  was  formed;  it  included  the  MPLA,  UNITA,  and 
the  FNLA. 

One  factor  that  influenced  these  agreements  was  the  role  of  Ad- 
miral Coutinho.  His  pro-MPLA  proclivities  threatened  the  deli- 
cate balance  that  the  liberation  movements  had  achieved.  Angered 
by  his  activities,  Spinola  removed  him  at  the  end  of  January  1975. 

On  January  31,  1975,  the  transitional  government  was  sworn 
in,  but  the  coalition,  based  on  a  fragile  truce,  had  serious  difficul- 
ties, as  the  leaders  of  its  three  member  organizations  bickered  over 
a  number  of  issues,  including  personal  power.  Within  days,  local- 
ized conflicts  between  MPLA  and  FNLA  forces  were  renewed. 
Moreover,  on  February  13  the  MPLA  attacked  the  Luanda  office 
of  Chipenda's  faction,  after  which  Chipenda  joined  the  FNLA  and 
became  its  assistant  secretary  general. 

Foreign  Intervention 

During  the  transition  period,  foreign  powers  were  becoming  in- 
creasingly involved  as  the  situation  in  Angola  rapidly  expanded 
into  an  East- West  power  struggle.  In  late  January,  a  high-level  Unit- 
ed States  government  policy-making  body  authorized  a  grant  of 
US$300,000  to  the  pro- Western  FNLA,  which  at  the  time  seemed 
to  be  the  strongest  of  the  three  movements.  In  March  the  Soviet 
Union  countered  by  increasing  arms  deliveries  to  the  MPLA,  and 
by  mid-July  that  group  had  become  appreciably  stronger  militari- 
ly. Alarmed,  the  United  States  increased  funding  to  the  FNLA  and, 
for  the  first  time,  funded  UNITA.  Cuba,  which  had  been  aiding 
the  MPLA  since  the  mid-1960s,  sent  military  instructors  in  the  late 
spring  of  1975.  By  early  October,  more  Cuban  military  personnel 
had  arrived,  this  time  primarily  combat  troops;  their  total  then  prob- 
ably reached  between  1,100  and  1,500. 

In  April  the  presidents  of  Zambia,  Tanzania,  and  Botswana 
decided  to  support  Savimbi  as  leader  of  an  Angolan  government 
of  national  unity,  believing  that  UNITA  attracted  the  widest  popu- 
lar support  in  Angola.  Savimbi  also  had  the  support  of  some  fran- 
cophone states  and  of  Nigeria  and  Ghana.  Some  of  these  countries 
later  withdrew  that  support  when  the  OAU  pleaded  for  reconcili- 
ation and  adherence  to  the  Alvor  Agreement. 

Collapse  of  the  Transitional  Government 

Inevitably,  the  delicate  coalition  came  apart  as  the  leaders  of  the 


38 


Historical  Setting 


three  movements  failed  to  resolve  fundamental  policy  disagreements 
or  control  their  competition  for  personal  power.  Although  the  OAU 
brought  Neto,  Roberto,  and  Savimbi  together  in  June  1975  for 
negotiations  that  produced  a  draft  constitution,  heavy  fighting  broke 
out  in  early  July  and  spread  swiftly  throughout  the  country. 
Within  a  week,  the  MPLA  had  forced  the  FNLA  out  of  Luanda, 
while  the  FNLA  had  eliminated  all  remaining  MPLA  presence  in 
the  northern  towns  of  Uige  and  Zaire  provinces.  UNITA  formal- 
ly declared  war  on  the  MPLA  on  August  1,  1975.  A  year  earlier, 
the  MPLA  had  created  its  military  wing,  the  People's  Armed  Forces 
for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Forcas  Armadas  Populares  de  Liber- 
tacao  de  Angola — FAPLA),  which  became  the  core  of  the  post- 
independence  army  (see  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5).  The  FNLA  and 
UNITA,  recognizing  that  their  separate  military  forces  were  not 
strong  enough  to  fight  the  MPLA,  formed  an  alliance  and  with- 
drew their  ministers  from  the  provisional  government  in  Luanda, 
heralding  full-scale  civil  war.  The  United  States  Central  Intelli- 
gence Agency  (CIA),  meanwhile,  initiated  a  covert  program  to  have 
American  and  European  mercenaries  fight  with  the  FNLA. 

On  August  14,  1975,  the  transitional  government  collapsed.  Por- 
tugal ordered  the  dissolution  of  the  coalition  government  and  an- 
nounced the  assumption  of  all  executive  powers  by  the  acting 
Portuguese  high  commissioner  in  Angola.  In  reality,  MPLA  offi- 
cials filled  those  ministries  abandoned  by  the  FNLA  and  UNITA, 
thereby  allowing  the  MPLA  to  extend  its  political  control  through- 
out the  Luanda  government. 

South  African  Intervention 

South  Africa's  interest  in  Angolan  affairs  began  during  the  Por- 
tuguese colonial  period,  especially  after  1966  when  the  insurgency 
spread  to  the  east.  South  Africa's  military  and  intelligence  serv- 
ices cooperated  closely  with  those  of  Portugal.  South  Africa  and 
Portugal  opened  a  joint  command  center  in  Cuito  Cuanavale  in 
southeast  Angola  in  1968,  and  from  there  South  African  troops 
participated  in  actions  against  Angolan  nationalist  guerrillas  as  well 
as  against  southern  Angola-based  guerrillas  of  the  South  West  Africa 
People's  Organization  (SWAPO),  the  Namibian  group  fighting  for 
independence  from  South  African  rule. 

The  collapse  of  Portugal's  empire  and  the  prospect  of  black  rule 
in  Angola  (and  Mozambique)  caused  enormous  concern  in  Pretoria. 
Especially  troubling  to  the  South  African  government  was  the  leftist 
orientation  of  several  of  these  nationalist  movements.  Thus,  in  Au- 
gust 1975  South  African  military  forces  came  to  the  aid  of  the 
FNLA-UNITA  alliance  and  occupied  the  Ruacana  hydroelectric 


39 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

complex  and  other  installations  on  the  Cunene  River.  On  October 
23,  a  force  of  300  South  African  troops,  assisted  by  about  3,000 
South  African- trained  Angolans,  invaded  Angola.  They  advanced 
rapidly  north  for  nearly  1,000  kilometers  and  came  within  100 
kilometers  of  Luanda.  This  force  was  later  increased  to  as  many 
as  10,000,  but  most  of  these  troops  were  Angolans  under  South 
Africa's  military  command. 

The  South  African  invasion  had  several  international  conse- 
quences. It  prompted  a  massive  increase  in  the  flow  of  Soviet  mili- 
tary supplies  to  the  MPLA  and  caused  Cuba  to  send  thousands 
of  men  to  Angola  in  defense  of  the  government.  Moreover,  because 
the  United  States  was  supporting  the  same  factions  as  the  South 
African  regime,  the  United  States  involvement  drew  harsh  criti- 
cism from  the  international  community.  Furthermore,  many  Afri- 
can countries  that  until  then  had  opposed  the  MPLA,  including 
Nigeria,  Tanzania,  Ghana,  and  Sudan,  reversed  themselves  and 
recognized  the  MPLA  government. 

Independence  and  the  Rise  of  the  MPLA  Government 

Unlike  Portugal's  other  African  possessions,  which  had  made 
relatively  peaceful  transitions  to  independence  months  earlier,  by 
November  11,  1975,  Angola  was  in  chaos.  In  the  absence  of  a  cen- 
tral government  to  which  Portuguese  officials  could  relinquish  con- 
trol, Portugal  refused  to  recognize  any  faction;  instead,  it  ceded 
independence  to  the  people  of  Angola.  The  MPLA  subsequently 
announced  the  establishment  of  its  government  in  Luanda  and 
called  the  territory  it  controlled  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola. 

The  FNLA  and  UNITA  announced  a  separate  regime  with  head- 
quarters in  the  southern  city  of  Huambo  and  called  their  territory 
the  Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Angola.  But  because  of  con- 
tinuing hostility  between  them,  the  FNLA  and  UNITA  did  not 
set  up  a  government  until  December  1975,  nor  did  they  attempt 
to  fuse  their  armies.  Moreover,  the  FNLA-UNITA  alliance 
received  no  formal  recognition  from  other  states,  mostly  because 
of  its  South  African  support.  In  general,  the  international  com- 
munity, particularly  other  African  states,  viewed  South  African  in- 
volvement in  favor  of  the  FNLA  and  UNITA  as  a  legitimization 
of  Soviet  and  Cuban  support  for  the  MPLA. 

By  January  1976,  with  the  support  of  some  10,000  to  12,000 
Cuban  troops  and  Soviet  arms  worth  US$200  million,  it  was  clear 
that  the  MPLA  had  emerged  as  the  dominant  military  power.  By 
February  1976,  the  FNLA  and  its  mercenaries  had  been  defeated 
in  northern  Angola;  under  international  pressure,  South  African 
troops  had  withdrawn  into  Namibia;  and  the  MPLA  was  in  control 


40 


Historical  Setting 


in  Cabinda.  Furthermore,  United  States  assistance  to  the  FNLA 
and  UNITA  ceased  following  the  passage  by  the  United  States 
Senate  of  the  Clark  Amendment,  which  prohibited  all  direct  and 
indirect  military  or  paramilitary  assistance  to  any  Angolan  group . 
The  OAU  finally  recognized  the  MPLA  regime  as  Angola's  offi- 
cial government,  as  did  the  UN  and  Portugal  and  more  than  eighty 
other  nations. 

Transformation  into  a  Marxist-Leninist  Party  and  Internal  Dissent 

Although  Marxist  influences  were  evident  before  independence, 
Marxism-Leninism  had  not  been  the  MPLA's  stated  ideology.  But 
during  a  plenum  of  the  MPLA  Central  Committee  in  October  1976, 
the  party  formally  adopted  Marxism-Leninism.  The  plenum  also 
resulted  in  several  major  organizational  decisions,  including  the 
creation  of  a  secretariat,  a  commission  to  direct  and  control  the 
Department  of  Political  Orientation,  and  the  Department  of 
Information  and  Propaganda.  The  National  Party  School,  founded 
in  February  1977,  trained  party  cadres  to  fill  national  and  provin- 
cial party  positions,  and  at  the  First  Party  Congress  in  December 
1977,  the  MPLA  transformed  itself  into  a  vanguard  Marxist-Len- 
inist party  to  be  called  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation 
of  Angola-Workers'  Party  (Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho — MPLA-PT) . 

The  estimated  110,000  members  of  the  MPLA-PT  had  widely 
diverse  backgrounds  and  political  ideas,  which  made  factionalism 
inevitable.  The  Neto  regime  soon  faced  problems  generated  by 
independent  left-wing  organizations  and  militant  workers.  Neto 
made  the  first  public  reference  to  internal  dissent  on  February  6, 
1976,  when  he  denounced  a  demonstration  that  had  protested  the 
termination  of  a  popular  radio  program  that  had  been  critical  of 
the  new  government  and  that  had  demanded  rule  by  workers  and 
peasants.  The  government  arrested  some  of  the  demonstrators  and 
launched  a  major  crackdown  on  opposition  elements.  One  of  these 
was  the  so-called  Active  Revolt,  a  faction  founded  in  1973  that  com- 
prised intellectuals  of  varying  political  orientation  and  included  the 
MPLA's  first  president,  Mario  de  Andrade,  and  other  prominent 
MPLA  leaders.  Another  opposition  element  was  the  Organization 
of  Angolan  Communists  (Organizacao  dos  Comunistas  de 
Angola — OCA),  a  Maoist  movement  founded  in  1975  that  attacked 
the  MPLA  as  a  bourgeois  party,  condemned  Soviet  imperialism, 
and  called  for  the  withdrawal  of  all  Cuban  forces. 

Shaba  Invasion  and  the  Nitista  Plot 

Several  incidents  in  the  mid-  to  late  1970s  contributed  to  the 
MPLA  regime's  reliance  on  Soviet  military  aid  and  the  presence 


41 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


of  Cuban  troops.  The  first  incident  occurred  on  March  8,  1977, 
when  the  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Congo  (Front 
National  pour  la  Liberation  du  Congo — FNLC),  a  political  oppo- 
sition group  hostile  to  Zaire's  President  Mobutu,  launched  an  at- 
tack from  Angola  on  Zaire's  economically  vital  Shaba  Region. 
Although  the  Zaire  government  halted  the  invasion  with  the  aid 
of  Moroccan  troops,  Mobutu  accused  the  MPLA  of  having 
instigated  the  attack.  In  return,  Neto  charged  Mobutu  with  har- 
boring and  militarily  supporting  both  the  FNLA  and  FLEC .  The 
MPLA  government,  faced  with  continuing  border  violations  and 
engaged  in  recriminations  with  the  Mobutu  regime,  requested  and 
received  an  increase  in  the  number  of  Cuban  troops. 

Another  incident  brought  factionalism  in  the  MPLA  leadership 
into  sharp  focus.  Two  ultraleftists,  minister  of  interior  and  Cen- 
tral Committee  member  Nito  Alves  and  Central  Committee  mem- 
ber Jose  Van  Dunem,  had  become  critical  of  the  government's 
economic  policies,  which  both  men  considered  too  moderate.  They 
also  criticized  the  government  leadership  for  its  heavy  representa- 
tion of  whites  and  mestizos.  In  October  1976,  the  MPLA  condemned 
Alves  for  factionalism  and  abolished  his  ministry.  The  government 
set  up  a  commission  of  inquiry  that  investigated  reports  that  Van 
Dunem  and  Alves  had  purposely  caused  food  shortages  to  stir  up 
discontent.  The  commission  found  the  men  guilty  and  expelled  them 
from  the  Central  Committee  in  May  1977.  Later  that  month,  Al- 
ves and  Van  Dunem  led  an  uprising  in  the  capital  and  called  for 
mass  demonstrations  outside  the  presidential  palace.  The  upris- 
ing failed,  but  Alves,  Van  Dunem,  and  their  followers  seized  a  num- 
ber of  senior  government  leaders,  whom  they  later  killed. 

The  Neto  regime,  already  alarmed  by  party  factionalism  and 
the  number  of  members  who  did  not  actively  support  the  party's 
Marxist-Leninist  objectives,  conducted  a  massive  purge.  It  re- 
ganized  the  party  and  the  mass  organizations,  many  of  which 
had  supported  Alves  and  Van  Dunem.  The  commissars  and  direct- 
ing committees  in  eight  provinces,  appointed  by  Alves  when  he 
had  been  minister  of  interior,  were  removed.  Thousands  of  Alves 
supporters,  referred  to  as  Nitistas,  were  dismissed  from  their  posi- 
tions and  detained.  All  mass  organizations  were  made  subordinate 
to  the  MPLA.  Finally,  to  achieve  these  changes,  national  and 
provincial  restructuring  committees  were  set  up.  By  December 
1980,  the  party  had  shrunk  from  1 10,000  members  to  about  32,000 
members. 

Strengthening  Ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  Its  Allies 

The  Nitista  plot  shook  the  Neto  regime  severely  and  was  a  stark 


42 


After  independence,  an  MPLA 
soldier  stands  on  an  armored 
vehicle  in  front  of  a  Portuguese 
statue  that  has  been  deliberately 
covered  with  a  cloth. 
Courtesy  United  Nations 
(J.  P.  Lajfont) 


\ 


reminder  of  the  young  government's  vulnerability  in  the  face  of 
internal  factionalism  and  South  African  destabilization  efforts.  In 
the  aftermath  of  the  failed  coup  attempt,  the  government  came  to 
the  realization  that  its  survival  depended  on  continued  support  from 
the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies.  Consequently,  the  government's 
reliance  on  Soviet  and  Cuban  military  support  increased,  as  did 
its  commitment  to  Marxist-Leninist  ideology. 

A  new  phase  of  Angola's  formal  relationship  with  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion had  already  begun  in  October  1976,  when  Neto  signed  the 
Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation  with  the  Soviet  Union  pledg- 
ing both  signatories  to  mutual  military  cooperation.  The  treaty  was 
significant  in  global  terms  in  that  it  gave  the  Soviet  Union  the  right 
to  use  Angolan  airports  and  Luanda  harbor  for  military  purposes, 
enabling  the  Soviet  Union  to  project  its  forces  throughout  the  South 
Atlantic  region. 

For  the  Soviet  Union,  its  intervention  in  Angola  was  a  major 
foreign  policy  coup.  Soviet  leaders  correctly  judged  that  the  Unit- 
ed States,  because  of  its  recent  Vietnam  experience,  would  be  reluc- 
tant to  intervene  heavily  in  a  distant,  low-priority  area.  Conditions 
would  thus  be  created  in  which  the  Soviet  Union  could  exert  its 
influence  and  gain  a  firm  foothold  in  southern  Africa.  In  addition, 
South  African  involvement  in  Angola  convinced  most  members 
of  the  OAU  that  Soviet  support  for  the  Angolan  government  was 
a  necessary  counterweight  to  South  African  destablization  efforts. 


43 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Furthermore,  United  States  support  for  UNIT  A  during  the  civil 
war  had  tainted  the  United  States  in  the  eyes  of  the  OAU  and  many 
Western  governments,  which  perceived  a  South  African- American 
link. 

Beginning  in  1978,  periodic  South  African  incursions  into 
southern  Angola,  coupled  with  UNITA's  northward  expansion  in 
the  east,  forced  the  Angolan  government  to  increase  expenditures 
on  Soviet  military  aid  and  to  depend  even  more  on  military  per- 
sonnel from  the  Soviet  Union,  the  German  Democratic  Republic 
(East  Germany),  and  Cuba. 

The  Angolan  government's  relationships  with  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion and  Cuba  were  linked  in  some  ways  but  distinct  in  other 
respects.  Clearly,  the  Soviets  and  Cubans  were  both  attracted  to 
the  Angolan  government's  Marxist-Leninist  orientation,  and  Cuba 
generally  followed  the  Soviet  Union's  lead  in  the  latter' s  quest 
for  international  influence.  Nonetheless,  Cuba  had  its  own  agen- 
da in  Angola,  where  Cuban  leader  Fidel  Castro  believed  that  by 
supporting  an  ideologically  compatible  revolutionary  movement 
he  could  acquire  international  status  independent  of  the  Soviet 
Union. 

Although  Soviet  and  Cuban  interests  in  Angola  usually  con- 
verged, there  were  also  disagreements,  mostiy  because  of  the  fac- 
tionalism within  the  MPLA-PT.  On  the  one  hand,  the  Soviet  Union 
seemed  to  have  favored  Minister  of  Interior  Alves's  more  radical 
viewpoints  over  those  of  Neto  and  probably  supported  the  Nitista 
coup  attempt  in  1977.  The  Cubans,  on  the  other  hand,  played  an 
active  military  role  in  foiling  the  coup  attempt  and  increased  their 
troop  presence  in  Angola  shortly  thereafter  in  support  of  the  Neto 
regime. 

Economic  Problems  and  Implementation  of  Socialist  Policies 

One  of  the  priorities  of  the  Neto  regime  after  independence  was 
to  repair  the  country's  infrastructure,  which  had  been  shattered 
by  the  liberation  struggle  and  the  civil  war  (see  Background  to  Eco- 
nomic Development,  ch.  3).  There  had  been  extensive  damage  to 
bridges,  roads,  and  transport  vehicles,  and  most  undamaged  vehi- 
cles had  been  taken  out  of  the  country  by  the  Portuguese.  With 
no  means  of  transporting  food  and  other  essential  supplies  to  many 
areas  of  the  country,  the  distribution  system  collapsed.  Further- 
more, a  good  part  of  the  economy  disintegrated  when  most  of  the 
Portuguese  settlers,  including  skilled  workers  and  government  and 
economic  development  administrators,  left  the  country  at  indepen- 
dence. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


Perhaps  more  in  response  to  the  economic  emergency  than  as 
a  result  of  the  party's  long-term  commitment  to  a  planned  socialist 
economy,  the  government  created  a  large  state  sector  as  stipulated 
in  a  resolution  passed  during  the  October  1976  party  plenum  (see 
Role  of  the  Government,  ch.  3).  Earlier  that  year,  the  government 
allowed  state  intervention  in  the  management  of  private  compa- 
nies that  had  suffered  most  from  the  Portuguese  withdrawal  and 
passed  the  Law  on  State  Intervention  in  March  1976,  which  provid- 
ed for  the  formal  nationalization  of  private  companies.  As  a  result, 
a  large  part  of  the  economy,  including  abandoned  commercial 
farms,  the  mining  industry,  and  the  banking  sector,  became  pub- 
licly owned.  The  government,  however,  acknowledging  the  mas- 
sive reconstruction  task  it  faced,  continued  to  encourage  and  support 
the  private  sector  and  to  welcome  foreign  investment. 

The  MPLA  leadership  gave  urgent  priority  to  the  revival  of  the 
agricultural  sector,  which  employed  about  75  percent  of  the  eco- 
nomically active  population.  But  the  government's  rejection  of  mar- 
ket incentives,  the  massive  dislocations  caused  by  warfare,  the 
disorganization  of  the  new  bureaucracy,  and  hostility  among  the 
peasants  to  imposed  collectivization  of  their  land  doomed  most 
government  efforts.  Once  a  food  exporter,  Angola  was  forced  to 
import  an  ever-increasing  amount  of  food. 

Although  the  agricultural  sector  barely  continued  to  produce, 
the  Angolan  economy  survived  because  of  the  oil  produced  by  and 
sold  to  Western  private  enterprise  (see  Oil,  ch.  3).  The  honest  and 
straightforward  approach  of  the  Angolan  government  toward  its 
Western  investors  earned  it  the  admiration  of  its  partners  and  result- 
ed in  the  inflow  of  capital  not  only  in  the  oil  industry  but  also  in 
mining  and  fishing. 

The  UNITA  Insurgency  and  the  South  African  Threat 

In  addition  to  severe  economic  disruptions,  in  the  late  1970s  the 
Angolan  government  was  also  challenged  by  the  UNITA  insur- 
gency. UNITA  was  able  to  survive  after  the  war  for  independence, 
first,  because  of  the  continued  loyalty  of  some  of  its  traditional 
Ovimbundu  supporters,  but,  more  important,  because  of  military 
and  logistical  support  from  South  Africa.  Pretoria  established  its 
relationship  with  UNITA  for  several  reasons.  Vehemently  anticom- 
munist,  South  Africa  felt  threatened  by  the  MPLA's  turn  toward 
the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies.  The  South  Africans  also  wished 
to  retaliate  for  Luanda's  support  of  SWAPO.  Furthermore,  by 
helping  UNITA  shut  down  the  Benguela  Railway,  which  linked 
the  mining  areas  of  Zaire  and  Zambia  to  Atiantic  ports,  Pretoria 


45 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

made  these  two  countries  more  dependent  on  South  Africa's  trans- 
portation system  and  thus  more  responsive  to  South  African  wishes. 

In  support  of  UNITA  leader  Savimbi,  the  South  African  Defense 
Force  (SADF)  set  up  bases  in  Cuando  Cubango  Province  in 
southeastern  Angola.  Savimbi  established  his  headquarters  in  Jamba 
and  enjoyed  air  cover  provided  by  the  South  African  air  force  from 
bases  in  Namibia  (see  fig.  16).  The  SADF  also  trained  UNITA 
guerrillas  in  Namibia  and  provided  UNITA  with  arms,  fuel,  and 
food.  On  occasion,  South  African  ground  forces  provided  direct 
support  during  UNITA  battles  with  FAPLA. 

Damaging  though  the  UNITA  assaults  were,  the  greatest  threat 
to  Angola's  security  in  the  late  1970s  was  posed  by  the  SADF.  Fol- 
lowing its  withdrawal  from  Angola  in  mid- 1976  after  its  involve- 
ment in  the  war  for  independence,  the  SADF  routinely  launched 
small-scale  incursions  from  Namibia  into  southern  Angola  in  pur- 
suit of  SWAPO  guerrillas.  The  first  large-scale  South  African 
incursion  into  Angola  took  place  in  May  1978,  when  the  SADF 
raided  a  Namibian  refugee  camp  at  Cassinga  and  killed  hundreds 
of  people.  By  the  end  of  1979,  following  the  SADF  bombing  of 
Lubango,  the  capital  of  Huila  Province,  an  undeclared  border  war 
between  South  Africa  and  Angola  was  in  full  force. 

The  Final  Days  of  the  Neto  Regime 

By  the  late  1970s,  Angolan  head  of  state  Agostinho  Neto  had 
reached  a  better  understanding  of  the  motivations  behind  the  1977 
Nitista  coup  attempt.  Accordingly,  he  sought  a  more  pragmatic 
approach  to  balancing  the  diverse  personalities  and  schools  of 
thought  within  the  government  and  party.  In  December  1978,  Neto 
began  a  series  of  government  and  party  reorganizations  designed 
to  increase  the  powers  of  the  president,  purge  both  ruling  struc- 
tures of  incompetent  and  corrupt  officials,  and  balance  ethnic, 
racial,  and  ideological  elements.  By  abolishing  the  offices  of  prime 
minister  and  deputy  prime  minister,  Neto  was  able  to  deal  direcdy 
with  his  ministers  rather  than  through  intermediaries.  The  reor- 
ganization also  resulted  in  the  dismissal  or  reassignment  of  a  large 
number  of  senior  party  officials.  Neto  effected  the  most  dramatic 
change  in  the  MPLA-PT  Political  Bureau,  which  had  been  domi- 
nated by  mestigos  and  Mbundu.  He  reorganized  the  Political  Bureau 
by  appointing  officials,  including  three  Bakongo  and  two  Cabin- 
dan  members,  who  gave  it  a  broader  ethnic  representation  (see 
Structure  of  Government,  ch.  4).  These  reorganizations  were 
accompanied  by  a  partial  amnesty  that  included  the  release  from 
prison  and  return  from  exile  of  members  of  the  Active  Revolt,  many 
of  whom  Neto  reintegrated  into  the  party.  Furthermore,  Neto 


46 


Historical  Setting 


welcomed  back  to  Angola  a  number  of  FNLA  members  and, 
according  to  some  sources,  even  made  friendly  overtures  to 
Chipenda.  By  1979  Neto  had  largely  succeeded  in  molding  the 
MPLA-PT  into  a  cohesive  organization  of  carefully  selected  cadres. 

Neto  also  pursued  a  foreign  policy  designed  to  weaken  external 
support  for  UNITA  (and  what  was  left  of  the  FNLA  and  FLEC) 
and  to  secure  friendly  relations  with  as  many  states  as  possible  for 
both  security  and  economic  reasons.  Included  in  this  last  goal  was 
a  July  1979  foreign  investment  law  that  provided  more  attractive 
benefits  for  foreign  investors  and  that  Neto  designed  primarily  to 
encourage  further  Western  investment  in  oil  exploration. 

The  Dos  Santos  Regime 

When  Neto  died  in  September  1979  in  a  Moscow  hospital,  he 
was  still  in  the  process  of  consolidating  his  power  and  reconciling 
with  former  opponents.  To  his  credit,  the  internal  party  cohesion 
that  he  fostered  allowed  a  smooth  transfer  of  power  to  Jose  Edu- 
ardo  dos  Santos,  a  Soviet-educated  Mbundu  who  had  served  as 
first  deputy  prime  minister  and  then  as  minister  of  planning  fol- 
lowing the  December  1978  reorganization. 

Despite  his  student  years  in  the  Soviet  Union,  dos  Santos  was 
a  moderate  with  a  pragmatic  outlook,  not  unlike  that  of  Neto.  He 
soon  expressed  his  preference  for  a  mixed  economy  with  an 
important  role  for  the  private  sector.  The  direction  in  which  he 
guided  the  MPLA-PT  was  especially  telling.  He  pushed  for  the 
promotion  to  the  Central  Committee  of  four  moderates — Manuel 
Alexandre  Rodrigues  (nom  de  guerre  Kito;  Mbundu),  Kundi  Pai- 
hama  (southern  Ovambo),  Paulo  Jorge  (mestigo),  and  Roberto  de 
Almeida  (mestigo).  The  ethnic  backgrounds  of  these  four  men  also 
demonstrated  the  new  regime's  continuing  commitment  to  broad- 
ened representation  in  the  top  party  leadership.  Nonetheless,  no 
Ovimbundu — the  largest  ethnic  group  and  the  one  to  which  Savimbi 
belonged — was  a  member  of  the  Political  Bureau.  Dos  Santos 
defended  this  omission  by  explaining  that  there  were  no  politically 
educated  Ovimbundu  who  could  fill  top  party  positions.  The  pro- 
motion of  Minister  of  Foreign  Relations  Jorge  to  full  membership 
in  the  Central  Committee  was  especially  significant  because,  dur- 
ing the  Neto  regime,  Jorge  had  initiated  contact  with  the  West  and 
maintained  the  flexible  foreign  policy  that  characterized  that  regime, 
despite  Soviet  objections.  Minister  of  Domestic  and  Foreign  Trade 
Almeida,  also  promoted  to  full  Central  Committee  membership, 
was  an  active  participant  in  the  fostering  of  Angola's  economic  ties 
with  the  West  as  well. 


47 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Steps  Toward  a  Stronger  Party  and  Political  Discord 

The  party  unanimously  confirmed  dos  Santos  as  its  president 
during  the  MPLA-PT's  First  Extraordinary  Party  Congress  held 
in  December  1980.  The  congress  also  increased  the  number  of  Cen- 
tral Committee  members  from  fifty-eight  to  seventy,  and  it  took 
a  decisive  step  toward  creating  a  greater  role  for  the  party  in  run- 
ning the  nation  and  a  diminished  role  for  the  government.  A  major 
constitutional  change  that  had  been  enacted  earlier  paved  the  way 
for  the  formation  of  the  national  People's  Assembly.  Provincial  as- 
semblies, elected  by  the  public,  then  elected  assembly  members, 
who  in  turn  elected  a  twenty-five-member  permanent  commission 
that  included  the  president  and  the  entire  Political  Bureau.  Thus, 
the  People's  Assembly,  which  replaced  the  government's  Council 
of  the  Revolution,  became  an  organ  primarily  of  the  party  rather 
than  the  government. 

During  a  meeting  in  March  1981,  the  Central  Committee  fur- 
ther reinforced  the  MPLA-PT's  primacy  over  the  government  by 
assigning  to  itself  increased  responsibility  for  the  job  of  orienting 
and  supervising  the  work  of  the  Council  of  Ministers.  A  govern- 
ment reorganization  followed  the  meeting,  and  several  ministers 
left  the  government  to  take  on  senior  party  positions,  where  they 
had  greater  opportunities  to  gain  power.  Because  most  of  the 
ministers  who  remained  in  the  Council  of  Ministers  were  tech- 
nocrats, the  bureaucratic  skills  of  government  officials  improved, 
and  the  reorganization  further  differentiated  government  and  party 
functions. 

Dos  Santos's  efforts  to  secure  the  supremacy  of  the  party  over 
the  government,  however,  created  sharp  divisions  within  the  gov- 
ernment and  party  elites  along  political  and  racial  lines.  On  one 
side  were  the  Africanists,  or  nationalists,  who  were  mostly  black 
and  held  most  of  the  senior  positions  in  the  government  and  minis- 
tries. The  Africanists,  for  the  most  part,  were  known  as  pragmatists 
and  favored  improved  relations  with  the  West  and  a  rapproche- 
ment with  UNITA.  On  the  other  side  were  the  ideologues,  mostly 
mestigos  and  whites,  who  dominated  the  party  and  adhered  adamant- 
ly to  the  Soviet  Marxist-Leninist  line.  Although  these  divisions 
caused  bitter  schisms  and  numerous  policy-making  problems,  they 
were  not  unusual  for  a  government  that  dealt  with  both  the  Soviet 
Union  and  its  allies  (in  the  military  sphere)  and  the  West  (in  the 
economic  sphere). 

The  Namibia  Issue  and  Security  Threats  in  the  1980s 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  status  of  Namibia  evolved  into  a 


48 


Historical  Setting 


complex  international  issue  involving  principally  the  governments 
of  the  United  States,  Angola,  South  Africa,  and  Cuba.  The  United 
States,  troubled  by  the  growing  Soviet  and  Cuban  presence  in 
Angola,  sought  to  reduce  this  influence  by  becoming  directly 
involved  in  negotiations  for  a  withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops  from 
Angola  and  for  Namibian  independence.  For  its  part,  Angola 
claimed  that  if  the  SADF  threat  were  removed  from  its  southern 
border,  it  could  safely  reduce  the  number  of  Cuban  troops  and 
Soviet  advisers.  The  most  obvious  way  this  could  be  done  was  if 
South  Africa  granted  independence  to  Namibia.  South  Africa, 
already  preoccupied  with  the  leftist  regime  in  Angola,  was  reluc- 
tant to  relinquish  control  of  Namibia  and  allow  free  elections 
because  of  the  possibility  that  these  elections  would  bring  its  tradi- 
tional nemesis,  SWAPO,  to  power. 

In  1977  Britain,  Canada,  France,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany),  and  the  United  States  formed  an  infor- 
mal negotiating  team,  called  the  Contact  Group,  to  work  with  South 
Africa  to  implement  a  UN  plan  for  free  elections  in  Namibia.  The 
South  African  government,  however,  was  fundamentally  opposed 
to  the  UN  plan,  which  it  claimed  was  biased  in  favor  of  the  instal- 
lation of  a  SWAPO  government  in  Namibia.  Pretoria  continued 
to  attend  negotiating  sessions  throughout  the  early  1980s,  always 
prepared  to  bargain  but  never  ready  to  settle. 

By  the  beginning  of  1981,  South  Africa's  undeclared  war  with 
Angola  and  its  support  for  an  increasingly  effective  UNITA  had 
become  the  focus  of  the  dos  Santos  regime.  After  the  failure  in  Janu- 
ary 1981  of  the  UN-sponsored  talks  on  the  future  of  Namibia,  South 
African  military  aggression  escalated  and  became  directed  as  much 
against  Angolan  targets  as  against  SWAPO  guerrillas.  In  August 
1981,  the  SADF  launched  Operation  Protea,  in  which  several 
thousand  troops  and  accompanying  equipment  penetrated  120 
kilometers  into  southwestern  Angola.  This  invasion  marked  the 
beginning  of  a  different  kind  of  war,  one  in  which  South  Africa  no 
longer  pretended  to  restrict  its  incursions  to  the  pursuit  of  SWAPO 
units  but  openly  intensified  its  assaults  on  Angolan  economic  tar- 
gets and  began  to  occupy  Angolan  territory,  particularly  in  Cu- 
nene  Province.  Furthermore,  SADF  support  for  UNITA  in  1982 
and  1983  increased  to  the  extent  that  the  South  African  Air  Force 
(SAAF)  participated  in  UNITA  operations  against  FAPLA. 

The  rapid  escalation  of  South  African  military  aggression 
in  Angola  was  matched  by  the  massive  infiltration  of  the  country- 
side by  UNITA  forces.  This  activity  far  exceeded  UNITA 's  previ- 
ous hit-and-run  operations  aimed  primarily  at  the  Benguela 
Railway.  But  perhaps  the  most  detrimental  effect  of  the  UNITA 


49 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


insurgency  was  the  disruption  of  the  economy,  particularly  the 
agricultural  sector.  By  the  end  of  1985,  fighting  between  UNITA 
and  FAPLA  had  forced  hundreds  of  thousands  of  peasants  to  flee 
from  the  fertile  central  highlands.  The  result  was  a  precipitous  drop 
in  food  production.  UNITA  guerrillas  also  frequently  mined  roads 
and  railroads,  blew  up  electric  power  transmission  lines,  and 
attacked  dams,  mining  facilities,  and  coffee  plantations.  Moreover, 
they  began  taking  foreign  technicians  hostage  in  the  hope  of  gain- 
ing publicity  for  the  UNITA  cause. 

Second  Party  Congress 

The  Second  Party  Congress  of  the  MPLA-PT,  held  in  Decem- 
ber 1985,  focused  on  two  main  themes:  greater  economic  efficien- 
cy and  improved  defense  capabilities.  The  party  had  little  to 
celebrate  in  view  of  the  deplorable  conditions  that  then  prevailed. 
Politically,  the  party  lacked  sufficiently  educated  cadres,  and  eco- 
nomically, the  government  was  forced  to  import  80  percent  of  its 
food  and  had  become  dependent  on  Western  oil  companies  to  keep 
the  economy  afloat.  The  large  number  of  party  members  attend- 
ing the  congress  who  were  also  military  officers  (about  a  quarter 
of  all  party  delegates)  exemplified  the  MPLA-PT 's  emphasis  on 
the  defense  sector.  The  Central  Committee  report  to  the  congress 
projected  that  more  than  one-third  of  the  government  budget  would 
go  to  defense  and  security  over  the  next  five  years. 

During  the  congress,  party  officials  expressed  their  dissatisfac- 
tion with  economic  policies  patterned  on  Soviet  models  that  had 
failed  to  revive  Angola's  agricultural  sector.  In  fact,  the  most  sig- 
nificant results  of  the  congress  were  a  purge  of  Soviet  hardliners 
and  an  influx  of  well-trained  nationalists  with  more  pragmatic  view- 
points. Within  the  party's  senior  ranks,  many  leading  ideologues 
were  demoted,  as  were  a  number  of  mestigos;  they  were  replaced 
with  younger  black  technocrats  and  the  president's  closest  sup- 
porters. 

An  unexpected  change  involved  one  of  the  most  prominent  mem- 
bers of  the  pro- Soviet  group,  Lucio  Lara,  who  had  been  considered 
the  second  most  powerful  figure  in  the  MPLA-PT.  Lara  lost  his 
position  in  the  Political  Bureau  and  ended  up  with  the  largely 
honorary  position  of  first  secretary  of  the  People's  Assembly.  Over- 
all, the  most  notable  outcomes  of  the  congress  were  the  enhanced 
prestige  and  authority  of  dos  Santos  and  a  more  professional  and 
loyalist  party  leadership,  in  which  the  armed  forces  were  heavily 
represented. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Angola  had  far  to  go  in  its  quest  to  become 
a  viable,  sovereign  state.  More  than  50,000  Cuban  troops  remained 


50 


Historical  Setting 


in  the  country  to  provide  security;  UNITA  and  the  SADF  launched 
attacks  with  impunity;  the  oil  sector — and  hence  the  treasury — 
suffered  grievously  from  the  worldwide  slump  in  petroleum  prices; 
and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Angolans,  in  the  countryside  as  well 
as  in  the  increasingly  crowded  cities,  were  malnourished.  Yet,  in 
late  1988  there  were  a  few  reasons  for  optimism.  United  States- 
sponsored  negotiations  were  finally  successful,  opening  the  door 
for  a  settlement  of  the  Namibia  dispute,  the  withdrawal  of  Cuban 
forces  from  Angola,  and  an  accord  between  the  MPLA-PT  and 
UNITA — in  short,  the  conditions  necessary  for  Angola  to  resume 
the  process  of  nationbuilding  and  to  prepare  a  better  future  for  its 
people  (see  Regional  Politics,  ch.  4). 

*    *  * 

Sources  emphasizing  the  early  history  of  the  Africans  in  Angola 
are  Jan  Vansina's  Kingdoms  of  the  Savanna,  Douglas  L.  Wheeler  and 
Rene  Pelissier's^4w^o/a,  and  Joseph  C.  Miller's  Kings  and  Kinsmen. 
The  best  accounts  of  Portuguese  expansion  in  Angola  are  Gerald 
J.  Bender's  Angola  under  the  Portuguese  and  Lawrence  W.  Hender- 
son's A ngola:  Five  Centuries  of  Conflict,  both  of  which  deal  extensive- 
ly with  the  brutality  of  Portuguese  colonial  policies  and  institutions. 
Other  useful  works  are  Malyn  Newitt's  Portugal  in  Africa,  C.R.  Box- 
er's Race  Relations  in  the  Portuguese  Colonial  Empire,  1415-1825,  and 
John  Sykes's  Portugal  and  Africa. 

By  far  the  most  complete  and  valuable  account  of  the  Angolan 
nationalist  struggle  is  John  A.  Marcum's  The  Angolan  Revolution. 
This  work  is  divided  into  two  volumes:  The  Anatomy  of  an  Explo- 
sion, 1950-1962  and  Exile  Politics  and  Guerrilla  Warfare,  1962-1976. 
Keith  Somerville's  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society  is  an  ex- 
haustive and  well- written  account  of  the  MPLA's  institutions  and 
policies. 

A  wealth  of  material  exists  on  Angola's  security  problems  and 
the  escalation  of  Soviet  and  Cuban  military  support.  Some  of  the 
best  sources  are  Tony  Hodges ys  Angola  to  the  1990s,  a  special  report 
published  by  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit;  John  A.  Marcum's 
paper  prepared  for  the  United  States  Information  Agency  titled 
'  'Radical  Vision  Frustrated:  Angola  and  Cuba";  Gerald  J.  Bender's 
article  in  Current  History  titled  4 'The  Continuing  Crisis  in  Ango- 
la"; two  chapters  by  John  A.  Marcum  tided  "UNITA:  The  Politics 
of  Survival"  and  "A  Quarter  Century  of  War"  in  Angola,  Mozam- 
bique, and  the  West,  edited  by  Helen  Kitchen;  two  articles  by  Gil- 
lian Gunn  titled  "The  Angolan  Economy"  and  "Cuba  and 


51 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Angola,"  also  in  Helen  Kitchen's  edited  volume;  and  Arthur  Jay 
Klinghoffer's  The  Angolan  War. 

Documentation  of  Angola's  recent  history  can  be  found  in  the 
annual  Africa  Contemporary  Record  and  various  issues  of  Africa  Con- 
fidential, as  well  as  many  periodicals  dealing  with  Africa.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


52 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  young  Angolan  celebrates  during  a  carnival. 


IN  LATE  1988,  ANGOLAN  SOCIETY  still  bore  the  scars 
inflicted  by  five  centuries  of  colonial  rule  and  by  a  thirteen-year- 
long  insurgency  that  had  drained  the  national  treasury  and  frus- 
trated the  government's  efforts  to  implement  Marxist-Leninist 
policies.  Complicating  the  study  of  contemporary  Angolan  society 
was  the  limited  information  available  to  researchers.  During  the 
period  of  turmoil  that  began  in  1975,  few  Western  observers  had 
been  allowed  access  to  government-controlled  areas.  Furthermore, 
the  Angolan  press  was  closely  controlled  by  the  government  and 
prone  to  propagandistic  reporting;  antigovernment  sources  were 
equally  slanted. 

Despite  these  limitations,  certain  features  of  Angolan  society  could 
be  outlined,  if  not  clearly  discerned.  In  1988  Angola  had  an  esti- 
mated population  of  8.2  million,  the  great  majority  of  whom  lived 
in  the  western  half  of  the  country.  Nearly  7  million  Angolans  lived 
in  government-controlled  areas.  The  remainder,  an  estimated  1.25 
million,  resided  in  rebel-held  regions.  Most  Angolans  inhabited 
rural  areas,  although  there  had  been  a  significant  trend  since  the 
1970s  toward  urban  growth.  By  1988  about  a  third  of  the  popula- 
tion was  living  in  towns  and  cities.  Most  of  the  urban  areas  were 
in  the  more  populous  western  half  of  the  country. 

Scholars  often  divided  the  population  into  a  number  of  ethno- 
linguistic  categories,  but  in  many  cases  these  categories  had  been 
devised  by  others,  both  Portuguese  and  Africans.  Physical  bound- 
aries based  on  these  categories  had  been  established  by  the  Por- 
tuguese for  use  in  census  taking  and  related  activities.  Although 
they  acquired  a  certain  meaning  for  the  people  included  in  them  in 
the  course  of  the  colonial  period  and  during  the  nationalist  struggle, 
these  categories  were  neither  fixed  nor  internally  homogeneous, 
and  they  were  subject  to  change  under  shifting  historical  condi- 
tions. 

The  three  largest  categories — the  Ovimbundu,  the  Mbundu,  and 
the  Bakongo — together  constituted  nearly  three-quarters  of  Angola's 
population.  Mestigos  (persons  of  mixed  European  and  African 
ancestry;  see  Glossary),  at  less  than  2  percent  of  the  population, 
had  played  an  important  role  in  the  ruling  party  since  indepen- 
dence, mostly  because  they  were  fairly  well  educated  in  a  society 
in  which  educated  persons  were  relatively  few.  They  had,  however, 
been  the  target  of  much  resentment,  a  consequence  of  their  former 
identification  with  the  Portuguese  and,  often,  of  their  expressions 


55 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

of  superiority  to  Africans.  The  regime  of  Jose  Eduardo  dos  San- 
tos, who  became  president  in  1979,  sought  to  dissipate  this  resent- 
ment by  replacing  high-ranking  mestigo  party  and  government 
officials  with  individuals  of  other  ethnic  backgrounds. 

Little  is  known  of  the  actual  workings  of  indigenous  social  sys- 
tems as  modified  during  the  colonial  period.  The  most  persistent 
of  groupings  and  institutions,  such  as  clans  or  tribes,  were  based 
on  descent  from  a  common  ancestor,  in  most  cases  a  common 
female  ancestor,  and  were  traced  through  females.  (With  rare 
exceptions,  however,  authority  lay  in  male  hands.)  As  enduring 
as  these  had  been,  such  groupings  and  institutions  were  showing 
signs  of  losing  their  significance  toward  the  end  of  the  colonial  era. 
In  many  instances,  they  were  further  disrupted  by  the  devastating 
effects  of  the  insurgency  waged  by  the  National  Union  for  the  Total 
Independence  of  Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia 
Total  de  Angola — UNITA),  which  caused  massive  displacement 
of  much  of  the  rural  population,  particularly  from  the  eastern 
provinces. 

The  Portuguese-imposed  national  structure  was  almost  totally 
destroyed  by  the  Marxist- Leninist  institutions  established  after 
independence  in  1975.  There  have  been  significant  changes, 
however,  in  the  ideology  of  the  country's  leaders  in  the  mid-  to 
late  1980s.  Although  the  ruling  party,  the  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola-Workers'  Party  (Movimento  Popular 
de  Libertagao  de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho — MPLA-PT),  in- 
veighed against  what  it  called  petit  bourgeois  tendencies,  its  lead- 
ers accepted  private  enterprise  and  a  more  tolerant  attitude  toward 
personal  gain  as  means  of  coping  with  the  country's  massive  eco- 
nomic and  administrative  problems. 

Despite  its  opposition  to  religion,  the  Marxist-Leninist  govern- 
ment did  not  prohibit  the  existence  of  religious  institutions.  Many 
Angolans  were  Roman  Catholics  or  Protestants,  and  missionaries 
had  been  instrumental  in  providing  education  to  Angolans  during 
the  colonial  era  when  schooling  had  been  largely  denied  to  Afri- 
cans by  the  colonial  authorities.  Nonetheless,  the  government  was 
suspicious  of  large  organized  groups  that  could  threaten  its  stability, 
particularly  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  because  it  had  not  overtly 
opposed  Portuguese  colonialism.  There  was  less  hostility  toward 
the  Protestant  churches,  which  had  not  maintained  particularly  close 
ties  to  the  Portuguese  colonial  authorities.  Indigenous  religions  con- 
tinued to  influence  the  lives  of  a  large  segment  of  the  population, 
even  though  some  of  these  people  also  belonged  to  Christian 
denominations. 


56 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  the  late  1980s,  there  was  a  tremendous  need  for  educated 
Angolans  in  both  the  economic  and  the  governmental  sectors, 
especially  in  technical  fields.  Although  the  government  had  made 
steady  progress  in  providing  education  at  the  primary  and  second- 
ary school  levels,  there  were  still  severe  teacher  shortages,  mostly 
in  rural  areas,  and  vast  problems  in  reaching  those  children  living 
in  areas  where  UNITA  military  actions  were  most  frequent. 

There  were  also  shortages  of  trained  Angolan  personnel  in  the 
health  field,  which  had  forced  the  government  to  bring  in  hundreds 
of  foreign  health  care  personnel  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  popula- 
tion as  well  as  to  train  Angolans  in  health  care  practices.  Nonethe- 
less, the  high  infant  mortality  rate  and  proliferation  of  diseases, 
exacerbated  by  poor  sanitation  and  malnutrition,  attested  to  the 
government's  insufficient  progress  in  this  area. 

Physical  Setting 

A  total  area  of  1,246,700  square  kilometers  (including  Cabinda 
Province)  makes  Angola  the  seventh  largest  state  in  Africa,  but 
it  is  also  one  of  the  most  lightly  populated  (see  fig.  1).  The  country 
is  bordered  to  the  north  and  east  by  Zaire,  to  the  east  by  Zambia, 
and  to  the  south  by  Namibia.  The  7,270-square-kilometer  enclave 
of  Cabinda,  which  is  separated  from  the  rest  of  Angola  by  a  strip 
of  Zairian  territory,  is  bordered  on  the  north  by  Congo. 

Terrain 

Angola  has  three  principal  natural  regions:  the  coastal  lowland, 
characterized  by  low  plains  and  terraces;  hills  and  mountains,  ris- 
ing inland  from  the  coast  into  a  great  escarpment;  and  an  area  of 
high  plains,  called  the  high  plateau  (planalto),  which  extends  east- 
ward from  the  escarpment  (see  fig.  3). 

The  coastal  lowland  rises  from  the  sea  in  a  series  of  low  terraces. 
This  region  varies  in  width  from  about  25  kilometers  near  Ben- 
guela  to  more  than  150  kilometers  in  the  Cuanza  River  Valley  just 
south  of  Angola's  capital,  Luanda,  and  is  markedly  different  from 
Angola's  highland  mass.  The  Atlantic  Ocean's  cold,  northward- 
flowing  Benguela  Current  substantially  reduces  precipitation  along 
the  coast,  making  the  region  relatively  arid  or  nearly  so  south  of 
Benguela  (where  it  forms  the  northern  extension  of  the  Namib 
Desert),  and  quite  dry  even  in  its  northern  reaches.  Even  where, 
as  around  Luanda,  the  average  annual  rainfall  may  be  as  much 
as  fifty  centimeters,  it  is  not  uncommon  for  the  rains  to  fail.  Given 
this  pattern  of  precipitation,  the  far  south  is  marked  by  sand  dunes, 
which  give  way  to  dry  scrub  along  the  middle  coast.  Portions  of 
the  northern  coastal  plain  are  covered  by  thick  brush. 


57 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  3.  Topography  and  Drainage 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


59 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

The  belt  of  hills  and  mountains  parallels  the  coast  at  distances 
ranging  from  20  kilometers  to  100  kilometers  inland.  The  Cuanza 
River  divides  the  zone  into  two  parts.  The  northern  part  rises  gradu- 
ally from  the  coastal  zone  to  an  average  elevation  of  500  meters, 
with  crests  as  high  as  1,000  meters  to  1,800  meters.  South  of  the 
Cuanza  River,  the  hills  rise  sharply  from  the  coastal  lowlands  and 
form  a  high  escarpment,  extending  from  a  point  east  of  Luanda 
and  running  south  through  Namibia.  The  escarpment  reaches  2,400 
meters  at  its  highest  point,  southeast  of  the  town  of  Sumbe,  and 
is  steepest  in  the  far  south  in  the  Serra  da  Chela  mountain  range. 

The  high  plateau  lies  to  the  east  of  the  hills  and  mountains  and 
dominates  Angola's  terrain.  The  surface  of  the  plateau  is  typically 
flat  or  rolling,  but  parts  of  the  Benguela  Plateau  and  the  Humpata 
Highland  area  of  the  Hufla  Plateau  in  the  south  reach  heights  of 
2,500  meters  and  more.  The  Malanje  Plateau  to  the  north  rarely 
exceeds  1,000  meters  in  height.  The  Benguela  Plateau  and  the 
coastal  area  in  the  immediate  environs  of  Benguela  and  Lobito, 
the  Bie  Plateau,  the  Malanje  Plateau,  and  a  small  section  of  the 
Hufla  Plateau  near  the  town  of  Lubango  have  long  been  among 
the  most  densely  settled  areas  in  Angola. 

Drainage 

Most  of  the  country's  many  rivers  originate  in  central  Angola, 
but  their  patterns  of  flow  are  diverse  and  their  ultimate  outlets 
varied.  A  number  of  rivers  flow  in  a  more  or  less  westerly  course 
to  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  providing  water  for  irrigation  in  the  dry 
coastal  strip  and  the  potential  for  hydroelectric  power,  only  some 
of  which  had  been  realized  by  1988.  Two  of  Angola's  most  impor- 
tant rivers,  the  Cuanza  and  the  Cunene,  take  a  more  indirect  route 
to  the  Atlantic,  the  Cuanza  flowing  north  and  the  Cunene  flowing 
south  before  turning  west.  The  Cuanza  is  the  only  river  wholly 
within  Angola  that  is  navigable — for  nearly  200  kilometers  from 
its  mouth — by  boats  of  commercially  or  militarily  significant  size. 
The  Congo  River,  whose  mouth  and  western  end  form  a  small  por- 
tion of  Angola's  northern  border  with  Zaire,  is  also  navigable. 

North  of  the  Lunda  Divide  a  number  of  important  tributaries 
of  the  Congo  River  flow  north  to  join  it,  draining  Angola's  north- 
east quadrant.  South  of  the  divide  some  rivers  flow  into  the  Zambezi 
River  and  thence  to  the  Indian  Ocean,  others  to  the  Okavango 
River  (as  the  Cubango  River  is  called  along  the  border  with 
Namibia  and  in  Botswana)  and  thence  to  the  Okavango  Swamp 
in  Botswana.  The  tributaries  of  the  Cubango  River  and  several 
of  the  southern  rivers  flowing  to  the  Atlantic  are  seasonal,  com- 
pletely dry  much  of  the  year. 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Climate 

Like  the  rest  of  tropical  Africa,  Angola  experiences  distinct, 
alternating  rainy  and  dry  seasons.  In  the  north,  the  rainy  season 
may  last  for  as  long  as  seven  months — usually  from  September  to 
April,  with  perhaps  a  brief  slackening  in  January  or  February.  In 
the  south,  the  rainy  season  begins  later,  in  November,  and  lasts 
until  about  February.  The  dry  season  (cacimbo)  is  often  character- 
ized by  a  heavy  morning  mist.  In  general,  precipitation  is  higher 
in  the  north,  but  at  any  latitude  it  is  greater  in  the  interior  than 
along  the  coast  and  increases  with  altitude. 

Temperatures  fall  with  distance  from  the  equator  and  with  alti- 
tude and  tend  to  rise  closer  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Thus,  at  Soyo, 
at  the  mouth  of  the  Congo  River,  the  average  annual  temperature 
is  about  26°C,  but  it  is  under  16°C  at  Huambo  on  the  temperate 
central  plateau.  The  coolest  months  are  July  and  August  (in  the 
middle  of  the  dry  season),  when  frost  may  sometimes  form  at  higher 
altitudes. 

Population  Structure  and  Dynamics 

As  of  late  1988,  the  last  official  census  in  Angola  had  been  taken 
in  1970.  As  a  result,  most  population  figures  were  widely  varying 
estimates  based  on  scanty  birth  and  death  rate  data.  According  to 
the  United  States  Department  of  Commerce's  Bureau  of  the  Cen- 
sus, Angola's  1988  population  was  about  8.2  million.  The  United 
States  Department  of  State  gave  a  1986  figure  of  8.5  million,  while 
the  United  Nations  (UN)  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  esti- 
mated the  mid- 1986  population  at  8.9  million.  The  Angolan  govern- 
ment estimated  the  1988  population  at  almost  9.5  million  (see  table 
2,  Appendix  A).  The  government  figure,  however,  may  have 
included  Angolan  refugees  in  neighboring  countries.  According  to 
the  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees,  a  private  agency,  in  mid- 1987 
more  than  400,000  Angolan  refugees  resided  in  Zaire  and  Zam- 
bia. There  were  about  50,000  Cuban  soldiers  and  civilians  and 
about  2,000  military  and  civilian  advisers  and  technicians  from  the 
Soviet  Union  and  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many) stationed  in  Angola.  There  were  also  about  10,000  South 
African  refugees,  most  associated  with  the  antigovernment  Afri- 
can National  Congress  (ANC);  70,000  Namibian  refugees,  most 
associated  with  the  South  West  Africa  People's  Organization  (SWA- 
PO);  and  13,200  Zairian  refugees.  There  was  no  officially  reported 
immigration  or  emigration. 

In  spite  of  warfare,  poor  health  care,  and  the  large  number  of 
Angolans  in  exile,  the  population  was  growing  steadily  in  the 
late  1980s.  Like  population  estimates,  however,  growth  rate 


61 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 

65  and  over 
60-64 
55-59 
50-54 
45-49 
40-44 
35-39 
30-34 
25-29 
20-24 
15-19 
10-14 
5-9 
0-4 


I 

m 

□ 

cz 

m 

MALES 

I 

mi 

FEMALES 

I 

m 

I 

HHHHHHI 

I 

I 

ft 

c 

m 

I 

mm 

I 

d 

9i 

DO  6C 

)0  3( 

30  C 

)  3( 

DO  6( 

DO  9C 

)0 

POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  African  Statistical  Yearbook,  1986,  Pt.  3,  Addis  Ababa, 
1986. 


Figure  4.  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  Mid- 1986 

calculations  varied  considerably.  According  to  a  1987  estimate  by 
the  United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA),  the  growth 
rate  was  3.6  percent.  The  UN  1986  estimate  of  2.7  percent  was 
a  good  deal  lower,  while  the  government,  whose  demographic 
estimates  typically  exceeded  those  of  Western  governments  and 
international  organizations,  announced  a  1986  growth  rate  of  almost 
4.9  percent.  The  CIA  figured  the  infant  mortality  rate  in  1987  at 
167  per  1,000,  and  the  United  States  Bureau  of  the  Census  calcu- 
lated the  death  rate  at  21  per  1,000. 

According  to  UN  figures,  Angola  had  a  very  young  population. 
In  1986  the  UN  estimated  that  about  46  percent  of  the  population 
was  under  age  fifteen  (see  fig.  4).  At  the  other  end  of  the  age  scale, 
only  4.8  percent  of  the  population  was  sixty  years  of  age  or  older. 
The  government  estimated  the  median  age  at  17.5  years.  Life 
expectancy  in  1987,  according  to  United  States  government  sources, 
was  forty-one  for  males  and  forty-four  for  females. 

The  1970  census  showed  the  most  densely  setded  areas  of  Angola 
to  be  the  plateau,  those  coastal  zones  including  and  adjacent  to  the 
cities  of  Luanda,  Lobito,  Benguela,  and  Mocamedes  (present-day 
Namibe),  and  the  enclave  of  Cabinda.  The  most  densely  settled 
province  in  1970  was  Huambo.  The  other  large  area  of  relatively 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


dense  settlement  included  much  of  Cuanza  Norte  Province  and  the 
southern  part  of  Uige  Province.  This  area  was  the  major  center 
for  coffee  cultivation  and  attracted  a  number  of  Europeans  and 
migrant  workers.  Except  for  Zaire  Province  in  the  far  northwest, 
the  most  thinly  populated  areas  of  Angola  lay  in  its  eastern  half. 

Since  the  start  of  the  independence  struggle  in  the  early  1960s, 
an  almost  continuous  process  of  urbanization  has  taken  place.  This 
process  was  accelerated  in  the  1980s  by  the  UNITA  insurgency, 
which  induced  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Angolans  to  leave  the  coun- 
tryside for  large  towns.  Angola's  urban  population  grew  from  10.3 
percent  in  1960  to  33.8  percent  in  1988  (according  to  government 
statistics).  Much  of  the  growth  occurred  in  Luanda,  whose  popu- 
lation more  than  doubled  between  1960  and  1970,  and  which  by 
1988  had  reached  about  1.2  million.  Other  towns  had  also  acquired 
larger  populations:  Huambo  grew  from  fewer  than  100,000  resi- 
dents in  1975  to  almost  1  million  in  1987,  and  Benguela's  popula- 
tion increased  from  55,000  to  about  350,000  over  the  same  period. 

After  independence  in  1975,  there  were  a  number  of  changes 
in  the  structure  of  the  population.  The  first  was  the  exodus  of  an 
estimated  350,000  white  Portuguese  to  their  homeland.  Yet,  by 
1988  there  were  an  estimated  82,000  whites  (representing  1  per- 
cent of  the  population),  mostly  of  Portuguese  origin,  living  in 
Angola. 

The  second  change  was  brought  about  by  large-scale  popula- 
tion movements,  mostly  among  the  Ovimbundu  who  had  migrated 
in  the  1950s  and  1960s  to  work  on  coffee  plantations  in  northwest- 
ern Uige  Province.  Panic-stricken  by  the  onset  of  civil  war  in  1975, 
most  Ovimbundu  workers  fled  to  their  ethnic  homelands  in  the 
central  provinces.  Another  large-scale  population  movement  oc- 
curred as  many  of  the  Bakongo  who  had  fled  to  Zaire  during  the 
nationalist  struggle  returned  to  Angola  (see  Coalition,  the  Transi- 
tional Government,  and  Civil  War,  ch.  1). 

The  third  and  most  striking  population  shift,  most  notable  in 
the  late  1970s  and  1980s,  had  been  the  flight  of  increasing  num- 
bers of  internal  migrants  out  of  the  central  provinces,  where  the 
effects  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  had  been  most  destructive.  Most 
of  this  massive  migration  had  been  toward  urban  areas.  From  1975 
to  1988,  millions  of  rural  civilians  were  displaced,  including  more 
than  700,000  forced  from  their  villages  since  1985  by  armed  con- 
flict. Many  of  these  migrants  relocated  to  ramshackle  displacement 
camps,  many  of  which  were  run  by  West  European  private  volun- 
tary organizations.  Although  these  camps  were  less  vulnerable  to 
attacks  by  UNITA  guerrillas,  conditions  in  them  were  poor.  Food 
and  water  were  in  short  supply,  and  health  care  was  limited. 


63 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Many  of  the  displaced  persons  living  in  Benguela  Province  were 
Ovimbundu  from  the  plateau  regions  of  eastern  Benguela  and  Hu- 
ambo  provinces.  The  officially  registered  displaced  population  of 
21 ,478  in  Benguela  Province  (1988  figure)  lived  in  nine  camps  and 
one  transit  center,  but  there  were  probably  thousands  more  living 
with  family  members  in  the  province's  urban  areas,  including  Lobi- 
to  and  Benguela.  The  estimated  116,598  displaced  persons  living 
in  several  camps  in  Cuanza  Sul  Province  had  been  forced  to  flee 
from  the  province's  eastern  rural  areas  or  from  the  plateau  regions 
of  Benguela,  Huambo,  and  Bie  provinces  because  of  intense  guer- 
rilla activity.  Because  access  to  many  rural  areas  was  limited  and 
sometimes  impossible,  most  of  these  displaced  persons  were  forced 
to  rely  on  other  local  populations  and  some  limited  and  sporadic 
outside  assistance.  Most  displaced  persons  fled  from  the  more  fer- 
tile and  wetter  highlands  to  the  less  hospitable  coastal  zone  and 
would  be  expected  to  return  to  their  homes  when  the  security  situ- 
ation improved. 

In  1988,  however,  the  majority  of  displaced  persons  had  become 
integrated  into  the  larger  urban  population,  especially  around  Lu- 
anda. Many  displaced  persons  who  sought  refuge  in  urban  areas 
did  so  through  family  or  other  relations  to  circumvent  government 
registration  procedures  and  so  avoid  taxation,  conscription,  or 
forced  resettlement.  Consequently,  the  exact  numbers  of  these  peo- 
ple could  not  be  computed.  In  Luanda  much  of  the  destitute  popu- 
lation, estimated  at  447,000  and  mostly  consisting  of  displaced 
persons,  lived  in  vertical  shanty  towns  (large  apartment  blocks  in 
the  center  of  the  city  with  inadequate  or  nonexistent  water  sources 
or  sanitary  facilities)  or  in  huge,  maze-like  neighborhoods  known 
as  musseques,  the  largest  of  which  housed  an  estimated  400,000 
people. 

Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages 

Although  Portuguese  was  Angola's  official  language,  the  great 
majority  of  Angolans  (more  than  95  percent  of  the  total  popula- 
tion) used  languages  of  the  Bantu  family — some  closely  related, 
others  remotely  so — that  were  spoken  by  most  Africans  living  south 
of  the  equator  and  by  substantial  numbers  north  of  it. 

Angola's  remaining  indigenous  peoples  fell  into  two  disparate 
categories.  A  small  number,  all  in  southern  Angola,  spoke  so-called 
Click  languages  (after  a  variety  of  sounds  characteristic  of  them) 
and  differed  physically  from  local  African  populations.  These  Click 
speakers  shared  characteristics,  such  as  small  stature  and  lighter 
skin  color,  linking  them  to  the  hunting  and  gathering  bands  of 
southern  Africa  sometimes  referred  to  by  Europeans  as  Bushmen. 


64 


Displaced  persons  walk  to  a  camp  in  Cuanza  Sul  Province. 

Courtesy  Richard  J.  Hough 

The  second  category  consisted  of  mestigos,  largely  urban  and  living 
in  western  Angola.  Most  spoke  Portuguese,  although  some  were 
also  acquainted  with  African  languages,  and  a  few  may  have  used 
such  a  language  exclusively. 

The  Definition  of  Ethnicity 

Bantu  languages  have  been  categorized  by  scholars  into  a  num- 
ber of  sets  of  related  tongues.  Some  of  the  languages  in  any  set 
may  be  more  or  less  mutually  intelligible,  especially  in  the  areas 
where  speakers  of  a  dialect  of  one  language  have  had  sustained  con- 
tact with  speakers  of  a  dialect  of  another  language.  Given  the  mo- 
bility and  interpenetration  of  communities  of  Bantu  speakers  over 
the  centuries,  transitional  languages — for  example,  those  that  share 
characteristics  of  two  tongues — developed  in  areas  between  these 
communities.  Frequendy,  the  languages  of  a  set,  particularly  those 
with  many  widely  distributed  speakers,  would  be  divided  into 
several  dialects.  In  principle,  dialects  of  the  same  language  are  con- 
sidered mutually  intelligible,  although  they  are  not  always  so  in  fact. 

Language  alone  does  not  define  an  ethnic  group.  On  the  one 
hand,  a  set  of  communities  lacking  mutually  intelligible  dia- 
lects may  for  one  reason  or  another  come  to  share  a  sense  of  iden- 
tity in  any  given  historical  period.  On  the  other  hand,  groups 
sharing  a  common  language  or  mutually  intelligible  ones  do  not 


65 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


necessarily  constitute  a  single  group.  Thus,  the  Suku — most  of  them 
in  Zaire  but  some  in  Angola — had  a  language  mutually  intelligi- 
ble with  at  least  some  dialects  of  the  Bakongo.  However,  their  histor- 
ical experience,  including  a  period  of  domination  by  Lunda 
speakers,  made  the  Suku  a  separate  group. 

Although  common  language  and  culture  do  not  automatically 
make  a  common  identity,  they  provide  a  framework  within  which 
such  an  identity  can  be  forged,  given  other  historical  experience. 
Insofar  as  common  culture  implies  a  set  of  common  perceptions 
of  the  way  the  world  works,  it  permits  individuals  and  groups  shar- 
ing it  to  communicate  more  easily  with  one  another  than  with  those 
who  lack  that  culture.  However,  most  Angolan  groups  had,  as  part 
of  that  common  culture,  the  experience  and  expectation  of  political 
fragmentation  and  intergroup  rivalry.  That  is,  because  one  com- 
munity shared  language  and  culture  with  another,  political  unity  or 
even  neutrality  did  not  follow,  nor  did  either  community  assume 
that  it  should.  With  the  exception  of  the  Bakongo  and  the  Lunda, 
no  group  had  experienced  a  political  cohesion  that  transcended 
smaller  political  units  (chiefdoms  or,  at  best,  small  kingdoms).  In 
the  Bakongo  case,  the  early  Kongo  Kingdom,  encompassing  most 
Kikongo- speaking  communities,  had  given  way  by  the  eighteenth 
century  to  politically  fragmented  entities.  In  the  Lunda  case,  the 
empire  had  been  so  far-flung  and  internal  conflict  had  become  so 
great  by  the  nineteenth  century  that  political  cohesion  was  limited 
(see  Kongo  Kingdom;  Lunda  and  Chokwe  Kingdoms,  ch.  1). 

Very  often,  the  name  by  which  a  people  has  come  to  be  known 
was  given  them  by  outsiders.  For  example,  the  name  "Mbundu" 
was  first  used  by  the  Bakongo.  Until  such  naming,  and  sometimes 
long  after,  the  various  communities  or  sections  of  a  set  sharing  a 
language  and  culture  were  likely  to  call  themselves  by  other  terms, 
and  even  when  they  came  to  use  the  all-encompassing  name,  they 
tended  to  reserve  it  for  a  limited  number  of  situations.  In  virtually 
all  colonial  territories,  Angola  included,  the  naming  process  and 
the  tendency  to  treat  the  named  people  as  a  discrete  entity  distinct 
from  all  others  became  pervasive.  The  process  was  carried  out  by 
the  colonial  authorities — sometimes  with  the  help  of  scholars  and 
missionaries — as  part  of  the  effort  to  understand,  deal  with,  and 
control  local  populations.  Among  other  things,  the  Portuguese  tend- 
ed to  treat  smaller,  essentially  autonomous  groups  as  parts  of  larger 
entities.  As  time  went  on,  these  populations,  particularly  the  more 
educated  among  them,  seized  upon  these  names  and  the  commu- 
nities presumably  covered  by  them  as  a  basis  for  organizing  to 
improve  their  status  and  later  for  nationalist  agitation.  Among  the 
first  to  do  so  were  mestizos  in  the  Luanda  area.  Although  most  spoke 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Portuguese  and  had  a  Portuguese  male  ancestor  in  their  genealo- 
gies, the  mestigos  often  spoke  Kimbundu  as  a  home  language.  It 
is  they  who,  in  time,  initiated  the  development  of  a  common  Mbun- 
du  identity. 

In  general,  then,  the  development  of  ethnic  consciousness  in  a 
group  encompassing  a  large  number  of  communities  reflected  shifts 
from  the  identification  of  individuals  with  small-scale  units  to  at 
least  partial  identification  with  larger  entities  and  from  relatively 
porous  boundaries  between  such  entities  to  less  permeable  ones. 
But  the  fact  that  these  larger  groups  were  the  precipitates  of 
relatively  recent  historical  conditions  suggests  that  they  were  not 
permanendy  fixed.  Changes  in  these  conditions  could  lead  to  the 
dissolution  of  the  boundaries  and  to  group  formation  on  bases  other 
than  ethnicity. 

In  any  case,  ethnic  identities  are  rarely  exclusive;  identification 
with  other  entities,  new  or  old,  also  occurs  in  certain  situations 
because  not  all  sections  of  a  large  ethnic  group  have  identical 
interests.  It  remained  likely  that  earlier  identities  would  be  appealed 
to  in  some  situations  or  that  new  cleavages  would  surface  in  others. 
For  example,  descent  groups  or  local  communities  were  often 
involved  in  competitive  relations  in  the  precolonial  or  colonial  eras, 
and  the  conditions  similar  to  those  giving  rise  to  such  competition 
might  still  prevail  in  some  areas.  In  other  contexts,  younger  mem- 
bers of  an  ethnic  group  may  consider  their  interests  to  be  different 
from  those  of  their  elders,  or  a  split  between  urban  and  rural  sec- 
tions of  an  ethnic  entity  may  become  salient. 

In  Angola,  the  displacement  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people, 
especially  in  the  late  1980s,  had  significant  repercussions  on  eth- 
nic identification.  For  example,  many  of  those  forced  to  abandon 
rural  areas  and  traditional  ethnic  communities  for  urban  dwell- 
ings no  longer  engaged  in  agricultural  activities  and  the  small  town 
life  that  defined  their  communities.  Instead,  they  were  forced  to 
become  urban  laborers  in  ethnically  mixed  surroundings.  Many 
were  compelled  by  their  new  circumstances  to  learn  new  languages 
and  give  up  traditional  life- styles  in  order  to  survive  in  their  new 
environment. 

Ethnolinguistic  Categories 

Caveats  notwithstanding,  a  listing  of  the  more  commonly  used 
ethnic  rubrics  and  an  indication  of  the  dimension  of  the  categories 
they  refer  to  is  useful  as  a  preliminary  description  of  Angola's  peo- 
ples. The  1970  census  did  not  enumerate  the  population  in  ethnic 
terms.  The  most  recent  available  count,  therefore,  is  based  on 
projections  of  the  1960  census.  Most  projections  assume  that  the 


67 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  5.  Ethno linguistic  Groups,  1988 
68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


rank  order  of  the  major  ethnolinguistic  categories  did  not  change, 
although  the  proportions  may  have  done  so.  In  particular,  a  fairly 
large  segment  of  the  Bakongo  of  the  northwestern  provinces  of  Zaire 
and  Ufge  were  already  refugees  in  1970  and  were  not  included  in 
the  1970  census.  Although  it  is  not  clear  how  many  Bakongo  sub- 
sequendy  returned  to  Angola,  it  may  be  assumed  that  many  of  them 
returned  and  that  their  relative  status  as  the  third  largest  group 
was  unchanged.  The  same  is  true  of  other  ethnic  groups  whose 
members  fled  to  Zaire  and  Zambia  in  the  late  1980s  when  the 
insurgency  intensified  in  Angola's  border  regions.  This  category 
would  include  many  Ovimbundu,  who  fled  central  Angola  to  Zam- 
bia, and  many  Lunda  and  Chokwe  (also  spelled  Cokwe),  who  fled 
to  Zaire  from  eastern  and  northern  Angola. 

Ovimbundu 

The  largest  ethnolinguistic  category,  the  Ovimbundu,  were 
located  in  west-central  Angola,  south  of  Mbundu-inhabited  regions 
(see  fig.  5).  In  1988  the  United  States  Department  of  State  esti- 
mated that  they  constituted  37  percent  of  the  population.  The  lan- 
guage of  the  Ovimbundu  was  Umbundu. 

The  core  area  of  the  Ovimbundu  kingdoms  was  that  part  of  the 
Benguela  Plateau  north  of  the  town  of  Huambo.  Expansion  con- 
tinuing into  the  twentieth  century  enlarged  their  territory  consider- 
ably, although  most  Ovimbundu  remained  in  that  part  of  the 
plateau  above  1,200  meters  in  elevation. 

Like  most  African  groups  of  any  size,  the  Ovimbundu  were 
formed  by  the  mixture  of  groups  of  diverse  origin  (and  varying 
size).  Little  is  known  of  developments  before  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, but  there  is  some  evidence  of  additions  to  the  people  who 
occupied  the  Benguela  Plateau  at  that  time.  Over  time,  a  number 
of  political  entities,  usually  referred  to  as  kingdoms,  were  formed 
(see  Ovimbundu  and  Kwanhama  Kingdoms,  ch.  1).  By  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  there  were  twenty- two  kingdoms.  Thirteen  were 
fully  independent;  the  other  nine  were  largely  autonomous  but  owed 
tribute  to  one  of  the  more  powerful  entities,  usually  the  kingdom 
of  Bailundu,  but  in  some  cases  Wambu  or  Ciyaka.  By  the  begin- 
ning of  the  second  decade  of  the  twentieth  century,  effective  occu- 
pation by  the  Portuguese  had  caused  a  fairly  rapid  decline  in  the 
power  of  the  heads  of  these  kingdoms,  but  Ovimbundu  continued 
to  think  of  themselves  as  members  of  one  or  another  of  the  groups 
based  on  these  political  units  after  World  War  II. 

In  addition  to  the  groups  that  clearly  spoke  dialects  of  Umbun- 
du, there  were  two  on  the  periphery  of  Ovimbundu  distribution: 
the  Mbui,  who  seemed  to  straddle  the  linguistic  boundary  between 


69 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


the  Ovimbundu  and  the  Mbundu;  and  the  Dombe  living  to  the 
west  near  the  coast,  whose  language  was  closely  related  to  Urn- 
bundu,  although  not  a  dialect  of  it.  The  Dombe  and  several  other 
groups,  including  the  Nganda  and  the  Hanya  (who,  according  to 
one  account,  spoke  Umbundu  dialects)  relied  on  cattle  raising,  as 
did  their  southern  neighbors,  the  Herero  and  the  Ovambo.  Still 
others,  typically  the  old  tributary  kingdoms,  came  to  speak  Um- 
bundu relatively  recently. 

Until  the  Portuguese  established  firm  control  over  their  territo- 
ry, the  Ovimbundu — particularly  those  of  the  major  kingdoms  of 
Bailundu  (to  the  northwest),  Bihe  (to  the  northeast),  and  Wambu 
(in  the  center) — played  important  roles  as  intermediaries  in  the 
slave,  ivory,  and  beeswax  trades,  acting  as  carriers,  entrepreneurs, 
and  raiders.  With  the  decline  of  the  slave  trade  in  the  last  decades 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  entrepreneurs  among  the  Ovimbundu 
turned  to  the  rubber  trade,  abandoning  the  warfare  and  raiding 
that  had  hitherto  been  integrally  related  to  their  economic  activi- 
ties. The  rubber  slump  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century, 
the  end  of  the  de  facto  autonomy  of  their  kingdoms  not  long  after, 
and  the  displacement  of  Ovimbundu  traders  by  the  Portuguese 
forced  these  people  to  turn  to  cash-crop  agriculture.  (The  men  had 
hitherto  had  little  involvement  with  cultivation;  in  fact,  the  wom- 
en continued  to  be  responsible  for  the  cultivation  of  subsistence 
crops.) 

The  introduction  of  cash  crops,  particularly  coffee,  led  to  a  ser- 
ies of  changes  in  settlement  patterns  and  social  arrangements  (see 
Structure  of  Society,  this  ch.).  But  after  a  time,  soil  exhaustion, 
lack  of  support  of  African  agriculture  by  the  colonial  authorities, 
incursions  of  Portuguese  settlers  who  took  over  valuable  property 
in  the  highlands,  and  a  number  of  other  factors  contributed  to  a 
decline  in  the  success  of  Ovimbundu  cash-crop  agriculture.  By  the 
early  1960s,  up  to  100,000  Ovimbundu,  estimated  at  one-quarter 
of  the  group's  able-bodied  adult  males,  were  migrating  on  one- 
year  and  two-year  labor  contracts  to  the  coffee  plantations  of  Uige 
and  Cuanza  Norte  provinces;  another  15,000  to  20,000  sought  work 
in  Luanda  and  Lobito;  and  roughly  the  same  number  worked  in 
the  industrial  plants  of  Huambo  or  for  European  farmers  in  the 
Benguela  Plateau.  In  most  cases,  remuneration  was  low,  but  these 
migrant  workers  had  little  alternative.  This  pattern  continued 
through  the  remainder  of  the  colonial  period,  except  for  those  males 
who  were  involved  in  nationalist  activity  (usually  with  UNITA). 

In  the  1940s,  the  Ovimbundu  organized  what  was  probably 
the  most  closely  knit  Angolan  community  of  the  colonial  era.  With 
the  financial  and  ideological  aid  of  North  American  Christian 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


missionaries,  they  established  a  network  of  Christian  villages,  each 
with  its  own  leadership,  schools,  churches,  and  clinics.  They  were 
thus  able  to  maintain  the  Ovimbundu  culture  while  providing 
educational  and  social  amenities  for  their  children.  The  genera- 
tion that  emerged  out  of  this  structure  became  the  disciples  of  Jo- 
nas Savimbi  and  the  basis  for  UNITA,  which  in  the  1980s  used 
the  same  concepts  to  maintain  Ovimbundu  cohesiveness  within 
UNITA-controlled  areas. 

Given  the  degree  of  change  in  Ovimbundu  society  and  the 
involvement  of  the  Ovimbundu  with  UNITA,  it  was  difficult  to 
determine  their  long-range  role  in  Angolan  politics.  Just  how  long 
Ovimbundu  solidarity  would  persist  under  changing  circumstances 
could  not  be  predicted. 

Mbundu 

Just  north  of  Ovimbundu  territory  lived  the  Mbundu,  the  second 
largest  ethnolinguistic  category,  whose  language  was  Kimbundu. 
In  1988  they  made  up  an  estimated  25  percent  of  the  Angolan  popu- 
lation. In  the  sixteenth  century,. most  of  the  groups  that  came  to 
be  known  as  Mbundu  (a  name  apparendy  first  applied  by  the  neigh- 
boring Bakongo)  lived  well  to  the  east  of  the  coast  in  the  plateau 
region  (at  a  somewhat  lower  altitude  than  the  Ovimbundu);  a  few 
groups  in  the  far  northeast  lived  at  altitudes  below  700  meters.  In 
general,  the  outlines  of  the  area  occupied  by  the  Mbundu  had  re- 
mained the  same.  The  major  exception  was  their  expansion  of  this 
area  to  parts  of  the  coast  formerly  occupied  by  Bakongo  and  others. 

Although  most  of  the  boundaries  of  Mbundu  territory  remained 
fairly  firm,  the  social  and  linguistic  boundaries  of  the  category  had 
shifted,  some  of  the  peripheral  groups  having  been  variably 
influenced  by  neighboring  groups  and  the  groups  close  to  the  coast 
having  been  more  strongly  influenced  by  the  Portuguese  than  were 
the  more  remote  ones.  Moreover,  the  subdivisions  discernible  for 
the  sixteenth  century  (and  perhaps  earlier)  also  changed  in  response 
to  a  variety  of  social  and  linguistic  influences  in  the  colonial  peri- 
od. The  Mbundu  in  general  and  the  western  Mbundu  in  particu- 
lar, located  as  they  were  not  far  from  Luanda,  were  susceptible 
to  those  influences  for  a  longer  time  and  in  a  more  intense  way 
than  were  other  Angolan  groups. 

There  were  a  number  of  Kimbundu  dialects  and  groups.  Two, 
each  incorporating  Portuguese  terms,  gradually  became  dominant, 
serving  as  lingua  franca  for  many  Mbundu.  The  western  dialect 
was  centered  in  Luanda,  to  which  many  Mbundu  had  migrated 
over  the  years.  The  people  speaking  it,  largely  urban,  had  come 


71 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


to  call  themselves  Ambundu  or  Akwaluanda,  thus  distinguishing 
themselves  from  rural  Mbundu.  The  eastern  dialect,  known  as 
Ambakista,  had  its  origins  in  the  eighteenth  century  in  a  mixed 
Portuguese-Mbundu  trading  center  at  Ambaca  near  the  western 
edge  of  the  plateau  region,  but  it  spread  in  the  nineteenth  century 
through  much  of  eastern  Mbundu  territory.  Another  Kimbundu- 
speaking  group,  the  Dembos,  were  generally  included  in  the  Mbun- 
du category.  Living  north  of  Luanda,  they  had  also  been  strongly 
influenced  by  Kikongo  speakers. 

By  the  late  1960s,  the  Mbundu  living  in  the  cities,  such  as  Luanda 
and  Malanje,  had  adopted  attributes  of  Portuguese  life-style.  Many 
had  intermarried  with  Portuguese,  which  led  to  the  creation  of  an 
entirely  new  class  of  mestigos.  Those  who  received  formal  educa- 
tion and  fully  adopted  Portuguese  customs  became  assimilados  (see 
Glossary). 

The  Mbundu  were  the  MPLA's  strongest  supporters  when  the 
movement  first  formed  in  1956.  The  MPLA's  president,  Agostin- 
ho  Neto,  was  the  son  of  a  Mbundu  Methodist  pastor  and  a  gradu- 
ate of  a  Portuguese  medical  school.  In  the  1980s,  the  Mbundu 
were  predominant  in  Luanda,  Bengo,  Cuanza  Norte,  Malanje,  and 
northern  Cuanza  Sul  provinces. 

Bakongo 

The  Kikongo- speaking  Bakongo  made  up  an  estimated  15  per- 
cent of  the  Angolan  population.  In  1988  the  Bakongo  were  the  third 
largest  ethnolinguistic  group  in  Angola.  Concentrated  in  Uige, 
Zaire,  and  Cabinda  provinces,  where  they  constituted  a  majority 
of  the  population,  the  Bakongo  spilled  over  into  the  nation  of  Zaire 
(where  they  were  the  largest  single  ethnic  group)  and  Congo. 
Although  the  Angolan  city  of  Sao  Salvador  (renamed  Mbanza  Con- 
go) was  the  capital  of  their  ancient  kingdom,  most  of  the  Bakongo 
were  situated  in  Zaire. 

Their  former  political  unity  long  broken,  the  various  segments 
of  the  ethnolinguistic  category  in  Angola  experienced  quite  dif- 
ferent influences  in  the  colonial  period.  The  Bashikongo,  living 
near  the  coast,  had  the  most  sustained  interaction  with  the  Por- 
tuguese but  were  less  affected  by  participation  in  the  coffee  econo- 
my than  the  Sosso  and  Pombo,  who  were  situated  farther  east  and 
south.  All  three  groups,  however,  were  involved  in  the  uprising 
of  1961 .  The  Pombo,  still  farther  east  but  close  to  the  Zairian  bor- 
der, were  much  influenced  by  developments  in  the  Belgian  Congo 
(present-day  Zaire),  and  a  large  contingent  of  Pombo  living  in 
Leopoldville  (present-day  Kinshasa)  formed  a  political  party  in  the 


72 


1 


Children  playing  ware, 
a  traditional  game 
Courtesy  UNICEF 
(Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


early  1950s.  The  Solongo,  dwelling  on  the  relatively  dry  coastal 
plain,  had  little  contact  with  the  Portuguese.  They  and  the  Ashilu- 
anda  of  the  island  of  Luanda,  to  the  south,  were  Angola's  only 
African  sea  fishermen. 

The  Mayombe  (also  spelled  Maiombe)  of  the  mountain  forests 
of  Cabinda  spoke  a  dialect  of  Kikongo  but  were  not  part  of  the 
ancient  kingdom.  That  part  of  the  Mayombe  living  in  Zaire  did 
join  with  the  Zairian  Bakongo  in  the  Alliance  of  Bakongo  (Alli- 
ance des  Bakongo — Abako)  during  the  period  of  party  formation 
in  the  Belgian  Congo,  but  the  Cabindan  Mayombe  (and  other 
Kikongo- speaking  groups  in  the  enclave),  relatively  remote 
geographically  and  culturally  from  the  Bakongo  of  Angola  proper, 
showed  no  solidarity  with  the  latter.  Instead,  in  1961  the  Mayombe 
formed  a  Cabindan  separatist  movement,  the  Alliance  of  Mayombe 
(Alliance  de  Mayombe — Alliama),  which  merged  with  two  other 
Cabindan  separatist  movements  in  1963  to  form  the  Front  for  the 
Liberation  of  the  Enclave  of  Cabinda  (Frente  para  a  Libertacao 
do  Enclave  de  Cabinda— FLEC). 

One  of  the  first  major  revolts  of  the  nationalist  struggle  was  insti- 
gated by  Bakongo  in  March  1961  in  the  northwest.  The  Portuguese 
crushed  the  peasant  attack,  organized  by  the  Bakongo  group,  the 
Union  of  Angolan  Peoples  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  de  Angola — 
UP  A),  on  their  settlements,  farms,  and  administrative  outposts. 
Subsequently,  400,000  Bakongo  fled  into  Zaire.  In  1962  the  UPA 


73 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


formed  the  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Frente 
Nacional  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA),  which  became  one 
of  the  three  major  nationalist  groups  (the  other  two  being  the  MPLA 
and  UNITA)  involved  in  the  long  and  bloody  war  of  independence. 
Most  of  the  FNLA's  traditional  Bakongo  constituency  fled  into  exile 
in  Zaire  during  the  war.  Following  independence,  however,  many 
Bakongo  exiles  returned  to  their  traditional  homesteads  in  Angola. 
They  had  since  retained  their  ethnolinguistic  integrity. 

Lunda-Chokwe 

The  hyphenated  category  Lunda-Chokwe  constituted  an  esti- 
mated 8  percent  of  the  Angolan  population  in  1988.  As  the  hyphen- 
ation implies,  the  category  comprises  at  least  two  subsets,  the 
origins  of  which  are  known  to  be  different,  and  the  events  leading 
to  their  inclusion  in  a  single  set  are  recent.  The  Lunda  alone  were 
a  congeries  of  peoples  brought  together  in  the  far-flung  Lunda 
Empire  (seventeenth  century  to  nineteenth  century)  under  the 
hegemony  of  a  people  calling  themselves  Ruund,  its  capital  in  the 
eastern  section  of  Zaire's  Katanga  Province  (present-day  Shaba 
Region).  Lunda  is  the  form  of  the  name  used  for  the  Ruund  and 
for  themselves  by  adjacent  peoples  to  the  south  who  came  under 
Ruund  domination.  In  some  sources,  the  Ruund  are  called  North- 
ern Lunda,  and  their  neighbors  are  called  Southern  Lunda.  The 
most  significant  element  of  the  latter,  called  Ndembu  (or  Ndem- 
bo),  lived  in  Zaire  and  Zambia.  In  Angola  the  people  with  whom 
the  northward-expanding  Chokwe  came  into  contact  were  chiefly 
Ruund  speakers.  The  economic  and  political  decline  of  the  em- 
pire by  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  the  demar- 
cation of  colonial  boundaries  ended  Ruund  political  domination 
over  those  elements  beyond  the  Zairian  borders. 

The  Chokwe,  until  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  a 
small  group  of  hunters  and  traders  living  near  the  headwaters  of 
the  Cuango  and  Cassai  rivers,  were  at  the  southern  periphery  of 
the  Lunda  Empire  and  paid  tribute  to  its  head.  In  the  latter  half 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Chokwe  became  increasingly  involved 
in  trading  and  raiding,  and  they  expanded  in  all  directions,  but 
chiefly  to  the  north,  in  part  absorbing  the  Ruund  and  other  peo- 
ples. In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  the  Chokwe  went  so  far  as 
to  invade  the  capital  of  the  much- weakened  empire  in  Katanga. 
As  a  consequence  of  this  Chokwe  activity,  a  mixed  population 
emerged  in  parts  of  Zaire  as  well  as  in  Angola,  although  there  were 
virtually  homogeneous  communities  in  both  countries  consisting 
of  Chokwe,  Ruund,  or  Southern  Lunda. 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  intermingling  of  Lunda  (Ruund  and  Southern  Lunda)  and 
Chokwe,  in  which  other  smaller  groups  were  presumably  also 
caught  up,  continued  until  about  1920.  It  was  only  after  that  time 
that  the  mixture  acquired  the  hyphenated  label  and  its  members 
began  to  think  of  themselves  (in  some  contexts)  as  one  people. 

The  languages  spoken  by  the  various  elements  of  the  so-called 
Lunda-Chokwe  were  more  closely  related  to  each  other  than  to  other 
Bantu  languages  in  the  Zairian-Angolan  savanna  but  were  by  no 
means  mutually  intelligible.  The  three  major  tongues  (Ruund,  Lun- 
da, and  Chokwe)  had  long  been  distinct  from  each  other,  although 
some  borrowing  of  words,  particularly  of  Ruund  political  titles  by 
the  others,  had  occurred. 

Portuguese  anthropologists  and  some  others  accepting  their  work 
have  placed  some  of  the  peoples  (Minungu  and  Shinji)  in  this  area 
with  the  Mbundu,  and  the  Minungu  language  is  sometimes  con- 
sidered a  transitional  one  between  Kimbundu  and  Chokwe.  There 
may  in  fact  have  been  important  Mbundu  influence  on  these  two 
peoples,  but  the  work  of  a  number  of  linguists  places  their  languages 
firmly  with  the  set  that  includes  Ruund,  Lunda,  and  Chokwe. 

Economic  and  political  developments  in  the  1970s  affected  var- 
ious sections  of  the  Lunda-Chokwe  differently.  Substantial  num- 
bers of  them  live  in  or  near  Lunda  Norte  Province,  which  contains 
the  principal  diamond  mines  of  Angola.  Diamond  mining  had  been 
significant  since  1920,  and  preindependence  data  show  that  the  in- 
dustry employed  about  18,000  persons.  Moreover,  the  mining  com- 
pany provided  medical  and  educational  facilities  for  its  employees 
and  their  dependents,  thereby  affecting  even  greater  numbers.  How 
many  of  those  employed  were  Lunda-Chokwe  is  not  clear,  although 
neighboring  villages  would  have  been  affected  by  the  presence  of 
the  mining  complex  in  any  case  (see  Extractive  Industries,  ch.  3). 
In  the  intra- Angolan  political  conflict  preceding  and  immediately 
following  independence,  there  apparently  was  some  division  be- 
tween the  northern  Lunda-Chokwe,  especially  those  with  some 
urban  experience,  who  tended  to  support  the  MPLA,  and  the  rural 
Chokwe,  particularly  those  farther  south,  who  tended  to  support 
UNIT  A.  In  the  1980s,  as  the  UNIT  A  insurgency  intensified  in 
the  border  areas  of  eastern  and  northern  Angola,  Lunda-Chokwe 
families  were  forced  to  flee  into  Zaire's  Shaba  Region,  where  many 
remained  in  1988,  living  in  three  sites  along  the  Benguela  Rail- 
way. The  impact  of  this  move  on  the  ethnolinguistic  integrity  of 
these  people  was  not  known. 

A  somewhat  different  kind  of  political  impact  began  in  the  late 
1960s,  when  refugees  from  Katanga  in  Zaire,  speakers  of  Lunda 


75 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

or  a  related  language,  crossed  the  border  into  what  are  now  Lunda 
Sul  and  northern  Moxico  provinces.  In  1977  and  1978,  these 
refugees  and  others  whom  they  had  recruited  formed  the  National 
Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Congo  (Front  National  pour  la 
Liberation  du  Congo — FNLC)  and  used  the  area  as  a  base  from 
which  they  launched  their  invasions  of  Shaba  Region  (see  Nation- 
al Security  Environment,  ch.  5).  In  the  1980s,  these  rebels  and 
perhaps  still  other  refugees  remained  in  Angola,  many  in  Lunda 
Sul  Province,  although  the  Angolan  government  as  part  of  its  rap- 
prochement with  Zaire  was  encouraging  them  to  return  to  their 
traditional  homes.  The  Zairian  government  offered  amnesty  to 
political  exiles  on  several  occasions  in  the  late  1980s  and  conferred 
with  the  Angolan  government  on  the  issue  of  refugees.  In  1988, 
however,  a  significant  number  of  Zairian  refugees  continued  to 
inhabit  Lunda-Chokwe  territory.  The  significance  for  local  Lunda- 
Chokwe  of  the  presence  and  activities  of  these  Zairians  was  not 
known. 

Nganguela 

Nganguela  (also  spelled  Ganguela)  is  a  term,  pejorative  in  con- 
notation, applied  by  the  Ovimbundu  to  the  peoples  living  east  and 
southeast  of  them.  The  essentially  independent  groups  constitut- 
ing what  was  no  more  than  a  Portuguese  census  category  was  split 
by  southward  penetration  of  the  Chokwe  in  the  late  nineteenth  cen- 
tury and  early  twentieth  century.  Only  two  groups  in  the  western 
section  of  the  territory  accepted  the  name  Nganguela;  the  others 
carried  names  such  as  Lwena  (or  Lovale),  Mbunda,  and  Luchazi — 
all  in  the  eastern  division.  The  Lwena  and  Luchazi,  roughly  equal 
in  number,  constituted  about  a  third  of  the  census  category  of  Ngan- 
guela, which  in  1988  accounted  for  an  estimated  6  percent  of  the 
Angolan  population. 

Unlike  the  farming  peoples  who  numerically  dominated  the  larger 
ethnolinguistic  categories,  the  groups  in  the  western  division  of  the 
Nganguela  were  cattle  raisers  as  well  as  cultivators.  Those  in  the 
eastern  division  near  the  headwaters  of  the  Zambezi  River  and  its 
tributaries  also  relied  on  fishing. 

All  the  groups  included  in  the  Nganguela  ethnolinguistic  category 
spoke  languages  apparentiy  related  to  those  spoken  by  the  Ruund, 
Southern  Lunda,  and  Chokwe.  Lwena  and  Chokwe,  although  not 
mutually  intelligible,  were  probably  more  closely  related  than 
Chokwe  was  to  Ruund  or  Lunda.  Except  for  sections  of  the 
Lwena,  during  the  time  of  kingdoms  most  of  these  peoples  were 
outside  the  periphery  of  Lunda  influence,  and  some  (in  the  western 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


division)  were  affected  by  Ovimbundu  activity,  including  slave 
raiding. 

Of  the  ethnolinguistic  categories  treated  thus  far,  the  Nganguela 
have  had  the  least  social  or  political  significance  in  the  past  or  in 
modern  times.  For  the  most  part  thinly  scattered  in  an  inhospita- 
ble territory,  split  by  the  southern  expansion  of  the  Chokwe,  and 
lacking  the  conditions  for  even  partial  political  centralization,  let 
alone  unification,  the  groups  constituting  the  category  went  different 
ways  when  nationalist  activity  gave  rise  to  political  movements  based 
in  part  on  regional  and  ethnic  considerations.  The  western  divi- 
sion, adjacent  to  the  Ovimbundu,  was  most  heavily  represented 
in  the  Ovimbundu-dominated  UNITA.  Some  of  the  groups  in  the 
eastern  divisions  were  represented  in  the  MPLA-PT,  which  Mbun- 
du  and  mestizos  dominated,  although  the  Lwena,  neighbors  of  and 
related  to  the  Chokwe,  tended  to  support  UNITA. 

In  the  1980s,  the  spread  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  into  the 
Nganuela-inhabited  area  adjacent  to  the  Zambian  border  led  to 
the  flight  of  many  Nganguela  families  into  Zambia.  The  extent 
of  this  flight  and  its  effects  on  the  ethnolinguistic  integrity  of  the 
Nganguela  were  unknown. 

Ovambo,  Nyaneka-Humbe,  Hereto,  and  Others 

In  far  southwestern  Angola,  three  categories  of  Bantu-speaking 
peoples  have  been  distinguished.  Two  of  them,  the  Ovambo  and 
the  Herero,  were  more  heavily  represented  elsewhere:  the  Ovambo 
in  Namibia  and  the  Herero  in  Namibia  and  Botswana.  The  Herero 
dispersion,  especially  that  section  of  it  in  Botswana,  was  the  con- 
sequence of  the  migration  of  the  Herero  from  German  South  West 
Africa  (present-day  Namibia)  after  their  rebellion  against  German 
rule  in  1906.  The  third  group  was  the  Nyaneka-Humbe.  Unlike 
the  other  groups,  the  Nyaneka-Humbe  did  not  disperse  outside 
Angola.  In  1988  the  Nyaneka-Humbe  (the  first  group  is  also  spelled 
Haneca;  the  latter  group  is  also  spelled  Nkumbi)  constituted  3  per- 
cent of  the  population.  The  Ovambo,  of  which  the  largest  subgroup 
were  the  Kwanhama  (also  spelled  Kwanyama),  made  up  an  esti- 
mated 2  percent  of  the  Angolan  population.  In  the  second  half  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  the  Kwanhama  Kingdom  of  southern 
Angola  was  a  powerful  state  involved  in  a  lucrative  trade  relation- 
ship with  the  Portuguese,  who,  together  with  the  Germans,  occupied 
Kwanhama  territory  in  the  early  twentieth  century.  In  the  1980s, 
the  Ovambo  were  seminomadic  cattle  herders  and  farmers.  The 
Herero  constituted  no  more  than  0 . 5  percent  of  the  population  in 
1988.  Traditionally,  the  Herero  were  nomadic  or  seminomadic 


77 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


herders  living  in  the  arid  coastal  lowlands  and  in  the  mountainous 
escarpment  to  the  east  in  Namibe,  Benguela,  and  Huila  provinces. 
Many  Herero  migrated  south  to  Namibia  when  the  Portuguese 
launched  a  military  expedition  against  them  in  1940  following  their 
refusal  to  pay  taxes. 

In  the  southeastern  corner  of  the  country,  the  Portuguese  dis- 
tinguished a  set  of  Bantu-speaking  people,  described  on  a  map  pre- 
pared by  Jose  Redinha  in  1973  as  the  Xindonga.  The  sole  linguistic 
group  listed  in  this  category  was  the  Cussu.  The  Language  Map  of 
Africa,  prepared  under  the  direction  of  David  Dalby  for  the  Inter- 
national African  Institute,  noted  two  sets  of  related  languages  in 
southeastern  Angola.  The  first  set  included  Liyuwa,  Mashi,  and 
North  Mbukushu.  These  languages  and  other  members  of  the  set 
were  also  found  in  Zambia  and  Namibia.  The  members  of  the 
second  set,  Kwangali-Gcikuru  and  South  Mbukushu,  were  also 
found  in  Namibia  and  Botswana.  The  hyphen  between  Kwangali 
and  Gcikuru  implies  mutual  intelligibility.  Little  is  known  of  these 
groups;  in  any  case,  their  members  were  very  few. 

All  of  these  southern  Angolan  groups  relied  in  part  or  in  whole 
on  cattle  raising  for  subsistence.  Formerly,  the  Herero  were 
exclusively  herders,  but  they  gradually  came  to  engage  in  some 
cultivation.  Although  the  Ovambo  had  depended  in  part  on  culti- 
vation for  a  much  longer  time,  dairy  products  had  been  an  impor- 
tant source  of  subsistence,  and  cattle  were  the  chief  measure  of 
wealth  and  prestige. 

The  southwestern  groups,  despite  their  remoteness  from  the 
major  centers  of  white  influence  during  most  of  the  colonial  period, 
were  to  varying  degrees  affected  by  the  colonial  presence  and,  after 
World  War  II,  by  the  arrival  of  numbers  of  Portuguese  in  such 
places  as  Mocamedes  (present-day  Namibe)  and  Sa  da  Bandeira 
(present-day  Lubango).  The  greatest  resistance  to  the  Portuguese 
was  offered  by  the  Ovambo,  who  were  not  made  fully  subject  to 
colonial  rule  until  1915  and  who  earned  a  considerable  reputation 
among  the  Portuguese  and  other  Africans  for  their  efforts  to  main- 
tain their  independence.  In  the  nationalist  struggle  of  the  1960s 
and  early  1970s  and  in  the  postindependence  civil  war,  the  Ovambo 
tended  to  align  themselves  with  the  Ovimbundu-dominated  UNI- 
TA.  Many  also  sympathized  with  the  cause  of  SWAPO,  a  mostly 
Ovambo  organization  fighting  to  liberate  Namibia  from  South  Afri- 
can rule. 

Hunters,  Gatherers,  Herders,  and  Others 

Scattered  throughout  the  lower  third  of  Angola,  chiefly  in  the  dri- 
er areas,  were  small  bands  of  people.  Until  the  twentieth  century, 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


most  of  them  were  nomadic  hunters  and  gatherers,  although  some 
engaged  in  herding,  either  in  addition  to  their  other  subsistence 
activities  or  as  their  chief  means  of  livelihood.  Those  who  survived 
turned,  at  least  in  part,  to  cultivation. 

The  bands  living  a  nomadic  or  seminomadic  life  in  Cuando 
Cubango  Province  (and  occasionally  reaching  as  far  east  as  the  up- 
per Cunene  River)  differed  physically  and  linguistically  from  their 
sedentary  Bantu-speaking  neighbors.  Short,  saffron-colored,  and 
in  other  respects  physically  unlike  the  Nganguela,  Ovambo,  and 
Nyaneka-Humbe,  they  spoke  a  language  of  the  !Xu-Angola  or 
Maligo  set  of  tongues  referred  to  as  Khoisan  or  Click  languages 
(the  exclamation  point  denotes  a  specific  kind  of  click),  whose  pre- 
cise relations  to  each  other  are  not  yet  fully  understood  by  observers. 

Several  other  hunting  and  gathering  or  herding  groups,  the  mem- 
bers of  which  were  taller  and  otherwise  physically  more  like  the 
local  Bantu  speakers,  lived  farther  west,  adjacent  to  the  Ovambo 
and  Herero.  These  people  spoke  Bantu  languages  and  were  less 
nomadic  than  the  Khoisan  speakers,  but  they  were  clearly  differ- 
ent from  the  Ovambo  and  Herero  and  probably  preceded  them 
in  the  area. 

Mestizos 

In  1960  a  little  more  than  1  percent  of  the  total  population  of 
Angola  consisted  of  mestigos.  It  has  been  estimated  that  by  1970 
these  people  constituted  perhaps  2  percent  of  the  population.  Some 
mestigos  left  at  independence,  but  the  departure  of  much  greater 
numbers  of  Portuguese  probably  resulted  in  an  increase  in  the 
proportion  of  mestigos  in  the  Angolan  total.  In  1988  mestigos  proba- 
bly continued  to  number  about  2  percent  of  the  Angolan  population. 

The  process  of  mixing  started  very  early  and  continued  until  in- 
dependence. But  it  was  not  until  about  1900,  when  the  number 
of  Portuguese  in  Angola  was  very  small  and  consisted  almost  en- 
tirely of  males,  that  the  percentage  of  mestigos  in  the  population  ex- 
ceeded the  percentage  of  whites  (see  The  Demographic  Situation, 
ch.  1). 

After  a  number  of  generations,  the  antecedents  of  many  mestigos 
became  mixed  to  the  extent  that  the  Portuguese  felt  a  need  to 
establish  a  set  of  distinctions  among  them.  Many  mestigos  accepted 
this  system  as  a  means  of  social  ranking.  One  source  suggests  that 
the  term  mestigo  used  alone  in  a  social  context  applied  specifically 
to  the  offspring  of  a  mulatto  and  a  white;  the  term  mestigo  cabrito 
referred  to  the  descendant  of  a  union  between  two  mulattos;  and 
the  term  mestigo  cafuso  was  applied  to  the  child  of  a  union  between 
a  mulatto  and  a  black  African.  It  is  possible  that  an  even  more 
complex  set  of  distinctions  was  sometimes  used. 


79 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Most  mestiqos  were  urban  dwellers  and  had  learned  to  speak  Por- 
tuguese either  as  a  household  language  or  in  school.  Although  some 
of  the  relatively  few  rural  mestiqos  lived  like  the  Africans  among 
whom  they  dwelt,  most  apparently  achieved  the  status  of  assimila- 
dos,  the  term  applied  before  1961  to  those  nonwhites  who  fulfilled 
certain  specific  requirements  and  were  therefore  registered  as  Por- 
tuguese citizens. 

With  some  exceptions,  mestiqos  tended  to  identify  with  Portuguese 
culture,  and  their  strongly  voiced  opposition  over  the  years  to  the 
conditions  imposed  by  the  colonial  regime  stressed  their  rights  to 
a  status  equivalent  to  that  of  whites.  Before  World  War  II,  only 
occasionally  did  mestiqo  intellectuals  raise  their  voices  on  behalf  of 
the  African  population.  Thus,  despite  the  involvement  of  mestiqos 
in  the  nationalist  struggle  beginning  in  1961  and  their  very  im- 
portant role  in  the  upper  echelons  of  the  government  and  party, 
significant  segments  of  the  African  population  tended  to  resent 
them.  This  legacy  continued  in  the  late  1980s  because  mestiqos  domi- 
nated the  MPLA-PT  hierarchy. 

Starting  in  the  late  1970s,  an  average  of  50,000  Cuban  troops 
and  civilian  technical  personnel  (the  overwhelming  majority  of 
whom  were  male)  were  stationed  in  Angola.  As  a  result,  a  portion 
of  the  nation's  younger  population  was  undoubtedly  of  mixed  Afri- 
can and  Cuban  descent.  This  new  category  of  racial  mixture, 
however,  had  not  been  described  by  researchers  as  of  late  1988, 
and  no  figures  existed  on  how  many  Angolans  might  fall  into  this 
category. 

Structure  of  Society 

The  most  pervasive  influences  on  the  structure  of  Angolan  soci- 
ety in  the  late  1980s  were  the  Marxist-Leninist  policies  of  the 
government  and  increased  militarization  to  counter  the  UNITA 
insurgency.  Based  on  the  principle  that  the  party,  the  working  class, 
and  the  worker-peasant  alliance  played  a  leading  role  in  society, 
Marxist-Leninist  policies  were  applied  in  the  late  1970s  to  every 
sector  of  society  and  the  economy,  affecting  the  lives  of  urban  and 
rural  inhabitants  alike.  Direct  military  actions  had  the  greatest  effect 
on  those  living  in  the  central  and  southern  provinces,  causing  large 
displacements  of  whole  groups  of  people  and  the  creation  of  a  sub- 
stantial refugee  population  in  Zambia  and  Zaire.  Moreover,  thou- 
sands of  young  men  and  women  were  conscripted  into  the  Angolan 
armed  forces,  while  many  thousands  of  older  citizens  served  in 
militias  and  civil  defense  units  (see  War  and  the  Role  of  the  Armed 
Forces  in  Society,  ch.  5).  In  regard  to  the  direct  effects  of  war,  press 
reports  in  1988  estimated  that  since  1975  the  insurgency  had 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


claimed  from  60,000  to  90,000  lives  and  had  orphaned  an  estimated 
10,000  children.  The  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees  reported  that 
by  1988  about  20,000  Angolans,  mostly  women  and  children,  had 
been  crippled  by  mines  buried  in  rural  fields  and  roads. 

Social  Structure  in  Rural  Communities 

The  crucial  social  units  in  rural  systems  were  villages  (or  other 
forms  of  local  community)  and  groups  based  on  common  descent, 
actual  or  putative.  These  were  basic  entities,  even  if  subject  to 
change  in  form  and  function  in  the  period  preceding  the  Portuguese 
incursion  and  during  the  centuries  when  Portugal  exercised  only 
indirect  influence  in  the  interior.  Throughout  these  hundreds  of 
years,  changes  in  the  structure  of  rural  political  and  economic  sys- 
tems had  their  impact  on  rural  communities  and  kin  groups,  but 
rural  community  organization  and  the  organization  of  kin  groups, 
often  linked,  remained  the  most  significant  elements  in  the  lives 
of  ordinary  Africans. 

In  general,  the  connection  between  a  rural  community  and  a 
descent  group  (or  some  other  kin-based  set  of  persons)  lay  in  the 
fact  that  the  core  of  each  community  consisted  of  a  descent  group 
of  some  kind.  Others  in  the  community  were  tied  to  the  members 
of  the  group  by  marriage  or,  in  an  earlier  period,  by  a  slave  or 
client  relationship,  the  effects  of  which  may  well  have  survived  the 
formal  abolition  of  slavery,  as  they  have  elsewhere.  Typically,  neigh- 
boring villages  were  tied  together  either  because  their  core  groups 
were  made  up  of  members  of  related  descent  groups  (or  different 
segments  of  a  larger  descent  group)  or,  in  some  cases,  by  fairly 
frequent  intermarriage  among  members  of  a  limited  set  of  villages. 

Traditionally,  descent  groups  in  Angola  are  matrilineal;  that  is, 
they  include  all  persons  descended  from  a  common  female  ances- 
tor through  females,  although  the  individuals  holding  authority  are, 
with  rare  exceptions,  males.  In  some  cases,  junior  males  inherit 
from  (or  succeed  to  a  position  held  by)  older  brothers;  in  others, 
males  inherit  from  their  mother's  brother.  Patrilineal  descent 
groups,  whose  members  are  descended  from  a  male  ancestor 
through  males,  apparently  have  occurred  in  only  a  few  groups  in 
Angola  and  have  been  reported  only  in  conjunction  with  matrilineal 
groups,  a  comparatively  rare  phenomenon  referred  to  as  a  double 
descent  system. 

It  must  be  emphasized  that  even  where  double  descent  systems 
did  not  exist,  kin  traced  through  the  father  were  important  as  indi- 
viduals in  systems  in  which  group  formation  was  based  on  matri- 
lineal descent.  In  some  cases,  the  Bakongo  for  example,  an  individual 
would  be  tied  through  his  father  to  the  latter 's  matrilineage, 


81 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

appropriate  members  of  which  have  an  important  say  in  aspects 
of  that  individual's  life. 

Broadly  speaking,  matrilineal  descent  groups  alone  have  been 
reported  for  the  Bakongo  (but  are  well  described  only  for  some  of 
the  Zairian  Bakongo),  the  Mbundu,  the  Chokwe,  and  the  Ovam- 
bo,  but  their  occurrence  is  probable  elsewhere.  A  double  descent 
system  has  been  reported  for  Angola's  largest  ethnolinguistic  group, 
the  Ovimbundu,  and  might  also  be  found  among  some  of  the 
southern  groups. 

The  structure  and  workings  of  the  double  descent  system  of  the 
Ovimbundu  had  not  been  adequately  described  as  of  1988.  In  any 
case,  ethnographic  studies  made  in  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury suggest  that  patrilineal  groups  as  such  (as  opposed  to  links 
with  the  father  and  some  of  his  kin)  had  virtually  disappeared  and 
that  matrilineal  groups  had,  by  and  large,  lost  most  of  their  sig- 
nificance as  a  result  of  major  changes  in  patterns  of  economic 
activity. 

Descent  groups  vary  in  size,  degree  of  localization,  function,  and 
degree  of  internal  segmentation.  In  the  kinds  of  groups  commonly 
called  clans,  the  links  between  a  putative  common  ancestor  and 
the  living  cannot  be  traced,  and  no  effort  is  made  to  do  so.  Such 
groups  are  larger  in  scope  than  the  units  into  which  they  are  divided, 
although  they  need  not  have  many  members  in  absolute  terms. 
They  are  rarely  localized,  and  their  members  may  be  widely  dis- 
persed. Clans  have  not  been  widely  reported  in  Angola.  The  only 
large  ethnic  category  in  which  they  have  been  said  to  exist  is  the 
Bakongo.  Even  among  the  Bakongo,  the  clans  do  not  seem  to  have 
had  political  or  economic  functions. 

More  typical  of  traditional  Angolan  communities  have  been  the 
kinds  of  descent  groups  usually  called  lineages,  in  most  cases 
matrilineages.  Among  such  descent  groups,  the  common  ancestor 
is  not  so  remote,  and  genealogical  links  can  be  traced  to  her.  Struc- 
turally, lineages  of  greater  depth  (for  example,  those  five  to  seven 
generations  in  depth  from  ancestor  to  most  recent  generation)  may 
be  further  segmented  into  shallower  lineages  (perhaps  three  to  four 
generations  in  depth),  lineages  at  each  level  having  different  func- 
tions. This  structure  seems  to  have  been  the  case  among  the  Bakon- 
go. There,  the  deeper  unit  controlled  the  allocation  of  land  and 
performed  tasks  connected  with  that  crucial  function,  whereas  shal- 
lower lineages  controlled  matters  such  as  marriage. 

Another  important  aspect  of  rural  community  life  was  the  role 
of  traditional  leaders.  After  the  outbreak  of  African  opposition  to 
colonial  rule  in  the  early  1960s,  most  local  leaders  were,  if  not  loy- 
al to  the  Portuguese,  reluctant  to  support  the  nationalist  movements. 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  MPLA,  in  particular,  was  urban  based  and  therefore  had  lit- 
tle contact  with  local  leaders  in  rural  areas.  Following  independence, 
however,  and  most  markedly  in  the  1980s,  the  government  recog- 
nized the  necessity  of  gaining  the  support  of  rural  peasants  to  coun- 
ter the  spreading  influence  of  UNITA.  Thus,  party  officials  began 
appointing  local  leaders  to  district  or  local  committees,  thereby  re- 
assigning to  them  a  significant  role  in  the  local  political  hierarchy. 

Ovimbundu  Social  Structure 

Before  the  twentieth  century,  neither  matrilineage  nor  patrilin- 
eage  dominated  Ovimbundu  society.  Economic  matters,  such  as 
property  rights,  seem  to  have  been  linked  to  the  matrilineage,  while 
political  authority  was  passed  through  the  patrilineage.  The  lin- 
eage system  declined  in  the  twentieth  century,  as  more  and  more 
Europeans  settled  on  the  highly  arable  plateau.  The  results  were 
land  shortage  and  commercialization  that  loosened  the  control  either 
lineage  system  might  have  over  what  had  become  the  primary 
resource  in  the  Ovimbundu  economy.  By  the  mid-1950s,  terms 
formerly  used  for  the  patrilineal  and  matrilineal  descent  groups 
were  still  heard,  but  they  no  longer  referred  to  a  cohesive  group. 
They  were  applied  instead  to  individual  patrilineal  and  matrilineal 
relatives.  Significantly,  the  Portuguese  term familia  had  also  come 
into  use  by  this  time. 

The  development  of  cash-crop  agriculture  and  changes  in  land 
tenure,  in  combination  with  inadequate  soils  and  Ovimbundu 
agricultural  techniques,  led  to  soil  depletion  and  the  need  by  nuclear 
families  for  increasingly  extensive  holdings.  Nucleated  villages,  con- 
sequently, became  less  and  less  feasible. 

Increasingly,  particularly  in  the  coffee- growing  area,  the  home- 
stead was  no  longer  part  of  the  nucleated  village,  although  dispersed 
homesteads  in  a  given  area  were  defined  as  constituting  a  village. 
The  degree  of  dispersal  varied,  but  the  individual  family,  detached 
from  the  traditional  community,  tended  to  become  the  crucial  unit. 
Where  either  Protestants  or  Roman  Catholics  were  sufficiently 
numerous,  the  church  and  school  rather  than  the  descent  group 
became  the  focus  of  social  and  sometimes  of  political  life.  In  at  least 
one  study  of  a  section  of  the  Ovimbundu,  it  was  found  that  each 
entity  defined  as  a  village  consisted  almost  exclusively  of  either  Pro- 
testants or  Roman  Catholics  (see  Christianity,  this  ch.). 

But  given  the  problems  of  soil  depletion  and,  in  some  areas, 
of  land  shortage,  not  all  Ovimbundu  could  succeed  as  cash-crop 
farmers.  A  substantial  number  of  them  thus  found  it  necessary  to 
go  to  other  regions  (and  even  other  countries)  as  wage  workers. 
Consequendy,  some  households  came  to  consist  of  women  and  chil- 
dren for  long  periods. 


83 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

In  1967  the  colonial  authorities,  concerned  by  the  political  situ- 
ation east  of  the  Ovimbundu  and  fearing  the  spread  of  rebellion 
to  the  plateau  regions,  gathered  the  people  into  large  villages  to 
control  them  better  and,  in  theory  at  least,  to  provide  better  social 
and  economic  services  (see  Angolan  Insurgency,  ch.  1).  The  Ovim- 
bundu, accustomed  to  dispersed  settlement,  strongly  resented  the 
practice.  Among  other  things,  they  feared  that  the  land  they  were 
forced  to  abandon  would  be  taken  over  by  Europeans  (which  in 
some  cases  did  happen). 

By  1970  compulsory  resettlement  had  been  abolished  in  part  of 
Ovimbundu  territory  and  reduced  elsewhere.  Then  the  Portuguese 
instituted  a  rural  advisory  service  and  encouraged  the  formation 
of  what  they  called  agricultural  clubs.  The  old  term  for  matrilineal 
descent  group  was  sometimes  applied  to  these  organizations,  which 
were  intended  to  manage  credits  for  Ovimbundu  peasants.  These 
units,  however,  were  based  on  common  interest,  although  traces 
of  kin  connections  sometimes  affected  their  operation,  as  did  the 
relations  between  ordinary  Ovimbundu  and  local  rulers.  Moreover, 
conflict  within  the  group  often  took  the  form  of  accusations  of  sor- 
cery. The  effects  on  these  units  of  independence,  the  stripping  away 
of  the  advisory  service,  and  the  early  years  of  the  UNIT  A  insur- 
gency were  unknown.  It  is  unlikely,  however,  that  the  Ovimbun- 
du took  to  enforced  cooperation  or  collectivization  easily. 

The  effects  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  on  Ovimbundu  life  were 
extensive  and  frequendy  devastating.  Much  of  the  fighting  between 
government  troops  and  UNITA  forces,  especially  in  the  1980s,  took 
place  on  Ovimbundu-occupied  territory.  Largely  dependent  on 
agriculture,  Ovimbundu  village  life  was  seriously  disrupted,  and 
large  numbers  of  Ovimbundu  were  forced  to  flee,  abandoning  their 
traditions  along  with  their  homes. 

As  UNITA  gained  control  over  a  growing  area  in  southeast  An- 
gola, however,  the  organization  tried  to  preserve  the  integrity  of 
Ovimbundu  life-style  and  customs  (see  fig.  16).  UNITA  established 
a  series  of  military  bases  throughout  the  southeast  that  served  as 
administrative  centers  for  the  surrounding  regions.  Under  Ovim- 
bundu leadership,  the  bases  provided  educational,  social,  economic, 
and  health  services  to  the  population,  operating  much  like  the  vil- 
lage system  on  the  central  plateau.  To  what  extent  this  system 
preserved  at  least  some  aspects  of  Ovimbundu  traditional  life  in 
the  late  1980s  was  unknown. 

Mbundu  Social  Structure 

Among  the  Mbundu,  the  matrilineage  survived  centuries  of 
change  in  other  institutions.  Membership  in  and  loyalty  to  it  was 


84 


Villagers  pumping  water  from  an  uncontaminated  well 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


of  great  importance.  The  lineage  supported  the  individual  in  mate- 
rial and  nonmaterial  ways  because  most  land  was  lineage  domain, 
access  to  it  required  lineage  membership,  and  communication 
between  the  living  and  their  ancestors,  crucial  to  traditional  religion, 
was  mediated  through  the  lineage. 

The  Mbundu  lineage  differed  from  Bakongo  and  Ovimbundu 
groups  in  its  underlying  theory;  it  consisted  not  of  individuals  but 
of  statuses  or  tides  filled  by  living  persons.  In  this  system,  a  Mbundu 
could  move  from  one  status  to  another,  thus  acquiring  a  different 
set  of  relationships.  How,  in  fact,  this  theoretical  system  affected 
interpersonal  relationships  between  biological  kin  has  not  been  de- 
scribed, however. 

The  Mbundu  matrilineage  was  in  some  respects  a  dispersed  unit, 
but  a  core  group  maintained  a  lineage  village  to  which  its  mem- 
bers returned,  either  at  a  particular  stage  in  their  lives  or  for  brief 
visits.  Women  went  to  the  villages  of  their  husbands,  and  their  chil- 
dren were  raised  there.  The  girls,  as  their  mothers  had  done,  then 
joined  their  own  husbands.  The  young  men,  however,  went  to  the 
lineage  village  to  join  their  mothers'  brothers.  The  mothers'  brothers 
and  their  sisters'  sons  formed  the  more  or  less  permanent  core  of 
the  lineage  community,  visited  from  time  to  time  by  the  women 
of  the  lineage  who,  as  they  grew  old,  might  come  to  live  the  rest 
of  their  lives  there.  After  a  time,  when  the  senior  mother's  brother 


85 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

who  headed  the  matrilineage  died,  some  of  the  younger  men  would 
go  off  to  found  their  own  villages.  A  man  then  became  the  senior 
male  in  a  new  lineage,  the  members  of  which  would  be  his  sisters 
and  his  sisters'  sons.  One  of  these  younger  men  might,  however, 
remain  in  the  old  village  and  succeed  the  senior  mother's  brother 
in  the  latter' s  status  and  take  on  his  role  completely,  thus  perpetu- 
ating the  older  lineage.  According  to  one  account,  the  functioning 
lineage  probably  has  a  genealogical  depth  of  three  to  four  genera- 
tions: a  man,  his  sister's  adult  sons,  and  the  latter' s  younger  but 
married  sister's  sons.  How  this  unit  encompasses  the  range  of  sta- 
tuses characteristic  of  the  matrilineage  in  Mbundu  theory  is  not 
altogether  clear. 

Social  Structure  in  Urban  Areas 

Whatever  the  kind  and  degree  of  change  in  the  workings  of  lin- 
eage and  community  in  rural  Angola,  research  in  the  musseques  of 
Luanda  showed  that  the  lineage  system  had  litde  significance  there. 
Musseques  are  settlements  in  and  around  Luanda  (and  some  of  the 
other  big  towns)  in  which  many  of  the  urban  poor  live.  Residents 
of  the  settlements  in  Luanda  were  predominantly  of  Mbundu  ori- 
gin. In  the  1980s,  the  settlements  became  the  refuge  of  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  displaced  persons. 

Some  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  musseques  worked  regularly  in 
manual  jobs,  but  others  were  employed  only  intermittently,  and 
still  others  would  go  jobless  for  long  periods.  The  variation  in  the 
material  circumstances  of  males  in  particular  affected  the  compo- 
sition of  the  households.  Ideally,  and  often  in  fact,  the  household 
consisted  of  a  man  and  a  woman,  living  in  a  union  legally  or  other- 
wise sanctioned,  and  their  children.  Occasionally,  another  kins- 
man or  kinswoman  was  part  of  the  unit.  In  the  1980s,  with  the 
influx  of  the  rural  displaced,  additional  kin  or  acquaintances  were 
probably  also  becoming  part  of  many  of  the  family  units. 

The  man  was  expected  to  assume  the  primary  responsibility  for 
supporting  the  household  and  to  provide,  if  possible,  for  the  edu- 
cation of  the  children,  although  others  sometimes  contributed. 
Given  the  economic  circumstances  of  most  of  these  men,  the  bur- 
den sometimes  became  overwhelming,  and  some  men  reacted  by 
leaving  the  household.  This  reaction  accounted,  with  some  excep- 
tions, for  the  presence  of  female  heads  of  households. 

In  the  1980s,  an  important  effect  of  extended  kinship  ties  was 
the  expectation  of  migrants  from  rural  areas  that  they  could  turn 
first  to  their  kin  already  in  place  for  at  least  temporary  housing 
and  other  aid.  The  tendency  was  to  look  to  heads  of  households 
who  were  of  the  same  matrilineage,  but  that  practice  was  not 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


universal.  Moreover,  it  did  not  signify  that  the  matrilineage  had 
been  transplanted  to  the  musseques.  The  relationship  between  the 
head  of  the  household  and  the  newly  arrived  migrant  was  that 
between  two  individuals.  The  urban  situation  did  not  provide  the 
conditions  for  the  functioning  of  the  matrilineage  as  a  social, 
political,  and  economic  unit. 

Given  the  combination  of  the  nuclear  family  household,  the 
absence  of  matrilineages,  and  the  relative  ethnic  homogeneity  of 
the  musseques  of  Luanda,  the  organization  of  permanent  or  tem- 
porary groups  engaged  in  social  or  political  activity  and  the  for- 
mation of  interpersonal  relationships  were  likely  to  be  based  directly 
on  economic  concerns  or  on  other  common  interests  arising  out 
of  the  urban  situation.  Elsewhere,  such  concerns  and  interests  were 
often  mediated  by  or  couched  in  terms  of  considerations  of  ethnic- 
ity or  kinship. 

Effects  of  Socialist  Policies 

Beginning  in  late  1977  with  the  First  Party  Congress  of  the 
MPLA,  at  which  the  conversion  of  the  MPLA  to  a  vanguard  party 
was  announced,  party  leaders  attempted  to  define  the  kind  of  so- 
ciety and  economy  they  wished  to  develop.  The  process  of  defini- 
tion was  by  no  means  systematic  and  often  simply  drew  on 
Marxist-Leninist  cliches  borrowed  from  the  Soviet  model.  Neverthe- 
less, from  time  to  time  statements  of  either  purpose  or  criticism 
focused  on  specific  features  and  problems  of  Angolan  society  as 
these  leaders  saw  them.  Sometimes,  the  solutions  offered  appeared 
to  have  conflicting  implications. 

Running  through  the  statements  of  leaders  and  editorials  in  An- 
gola's largest  newspaper,  Jornal  de  A ngola,  and  other  party  and  state 
publications  were  frequent  and  strong  references  to  the  need  to 
eliminate  all  signs  of  ethnicity,  regionalism,  and  racism.  On  several 
occasions,  the  statements  and  editorials  asserted  that  ethnicity  and 
regionalism  were  not  the  same,  but  their  differences  were  not  spelled 
out.  Because  there  is  a  link  between  ethnolinguistic  category  and 
location,  the  differential  effects  on  behavior  of  ethnicity  and  region- 
alism are  often  difficult  to  determine. 

At  the  same  time  that  the  party  cautioned  against  racism  (the 
reference  is  to  mestiqos  and  to  those  Portuguese  who  remained  in 
Angola  after  independence),  it  also  discouraged  attitudes  of  superi- 
ority. Presumably,  this  was  an  allusion  not  only  to  the  preindepen- 
dence  attitudes  of  Portuguese  and  mestiqos  but  also  to  those  of  urban, 
educated  Africans,  who  would  in  former  times  have  been  called 
assimilados.  In  fact,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  Portuguese  in  the  party 
would  act  in  the  style  of  the  Portuguese  colonial  official  or  settler, 


87 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

but  some  mestigos,  uncommitted  ideologically,  might  act  in  such 
a  way;  educated  Africans,  secure  in  their  racial  situation,  were  even 
more  likely  to  exhibit  a  sense  of  superiority  to  ordinary  Africans. 
The  sensitivity  of  the  party  to  popular  perceptions  about  racism 
and  attitudes  of  superiority  was  partly  responsible  for  attempts  in 
the  1980s  by  the  dos  Santos  regime  to  remove  from  the  top  party 
echelons  a  number  of  mestigos,  who  dominated  the  party  structure, 
and  replace  them  with  a  more  ethnically  diverse  group  (see  Politi- 
cal Environment,  ch.  4). 

In  the  1980s,  there  was  a  significant  shift  of  attitude  on  the  part 
of  government  and  party  officials  toward  private  enterprise  and 
what  the  party  had  previously  labeled  "petite  bourgeoisie."  In  the 
1970s,  the  term  was  widely  and  pejoratively  used  to  discourage 
individuals  from  activities  in  which  they  could  accumulate  personal 
wealth.  Although  self-aggrandizement  was  still  discouraged,  the 
party  recognized  that  economic  and  agricultural  centralization  had 
failed  as  development  strategies  and  that  movement  toward  pri- 
vate enterprise  would  be  necessary  to  boost  domestic  production, 
increase  the  supply  of  goods  available  to  the  Angolan  population, 
and  generally  improve  the  economic  picture. 

The  implications  of  these  policy  changes  for  the  structure  of 
society,  including  economic  support  for  individual  peasant  farm- 
ers and  an  increase  in  the  role  of  private  traders,  were  extensive. 
Where  the  party  once  discouraged  the  existence  of  an  entrepreneu- 
rial bourgeoisie  both  in  urban  and  in  rural  Angola,  some  observ- 
ers believed  that  efforts  to  develop  the  country  and  come  to  grips 
with  its  economic  and  technical  problems  might  generate  not  only 
a  bureaucratic  middle  class  and  elite  but  also  a  business  middle 
class  less  amenable  to  control  than  a  salaried  state  bourgeoisie. 

Policies  Affecting  Rural  Society 

Prior  to  independence,  most  peasants  engaged  in  subsistence 
farming  and  cattle  herding,  whereas  commercial  farms  and  plan- 
tations, which  produced  most  of  the  cash  crops,  were  owned  and 
operated  primarily  by  Portuguese  settlers.  Although  most  farmers 
and  herders  consumed  most  of  what  they  produced,  those  who  did 
market  some  of  their  output  depended  on  Portuguese  bush  traders. 
A  barter  system  developed  through  which  agricultural  produce  was 
exchanged  for  agricultural  supplies  and  consumer  goods  from  the 
cities.  This  entire  system  collapsed  with  the  sudden  departure  of 
the  Portuguese  farmers  and  bush  traders  at  independence. 

The  government  acted  immediately  by  transforming  the  aban- 
doned commercial  farms  into  state  farms,  all  of  which  were  large 


88 


Homeless  children  on  a  street  in  Luanda 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray -Lee) 

and  understaffed.  The  lack  of  personnel  with  managerial  and  tech- 
nical skills,  the  breakdown  of  machinery,  and  the  unwillingness 
of  peasants  to  work  for  wages  soon  eroded  the  experiment  in 
nationalization,  and  by  the  early  1980s  much  of  the  land  was 
appropriated  for  individual  family  farming. 

The  government  proceeded  cautiously  in  its  dealings  with  the 
peasants,  recognizing  that  productivity  had  to  take  priority  over 
ideology.  Thus,  instead  of  immediately  collectivizing  land,  the 
government  formed  farming  cooperatives,  but  this  too  failed  because 
of  the  government's  inability  to  replace  the  function  of  the  Por- 
tuguese bush  traders,  despite  the  establishment  of  a  barter  system 
managed  by  two  state  companies  (see  Agriculture,  ch.  3).  By  the 
early  1980s,  most  peasants,  having  never  received  from  the  state 
any  promised  goods,  returned  to  subsistence  farming  and  their  tradi- 
tional way  of  life. 

A  shift  in  agricultural  policy  began  in  1984  that  may  have 
provided  the  basis  for  a  fundamental  change  in  rural  life  in  the 
future.  The  goal  was  to  restore  a  flow  of  farm  surplus  products 
to  urban  areas  and  reduce  dependence  on  imports.  Along  with  the 
dissolution  of  the  state  farms,  the  government  began  setting  up 
agricultural  development  stations  to  provide  assistance  to  farmers 
in  the  form  of  technical  advice,  equipment,  and  seeds  and  fertili- 
zer. In  1988  these  measures  were  gradually  reversing  the  decline 


89 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

in  agricultural  production  for  the  market  in  the  few  provinces 
unaffected  by  the  UNIT  A  insurgency. 

Policies  Affecting  Urban  Society 

Many  of  the  difficult  economic  conditions  existing  in  Angola's 
cities  and  towns  were  the  result  of  the  UNITA  insurgency,  including 
the  almost  total  disruption  of  the  transportation  system  necessary 
to  carry  produce  from  rural  to  urban  areas.  However,  by  the  late 
1980s  the  government  had  recognized  that  much  could  be  blamed 
on  the  cumbersome  and  ineffective  mechanisms  of  the  centralized 
economy  (see  Role  of  the  Government,  ch.  3).  In  1988  the  govern- 
ment, faced  with  the  continuing  decline  of  the  manufacturing  sec- 
tor, began  to  move  away  from  state-controlled  companies  and 
promised  to  enact  new  laws  that  would  make  private  ownership 
possible. 

The  impact  of  the  changes  in  economic  policy  were  not  immedi- 
ately apparent  in  Luanda  in  1988.  The  only  two  sources  of  goods 
for  the  capital's  population  were  rationed  and  poorly  stocked  state 
stores  and  the  parallel  market,  where  the  local  currency  was  accepted 
at  only  a  fraction  of  its  face  value.  Many  foreign  businesses  were 
giving  their  Angolan  employees  credit  at  a  government  supermar- 
ket where  they  could  buy  food.  Some  foreign  businesses  set  up  their 
own  stores  in  which  their  employees  could  shop.  The  largest  parallel 
market  operation  in  Luanda,  Roque  Santeiro,  was  only  one  of  many 
that  depended  on  European  shipments  for  products  such  as  cloth- 
ing, watches,  medicine,  and  tape  players,  as  well  as  food.  There 
was  some  indication  that  goods  were  also  bought  by  insiders  at  state 
stores  and  resold  at  many  times  the  price  in  the  parallel  market. 
Despite  official  rhetoric,  the  government  recognized  its  inability 
to  provide  basic  goods  to  the  population  and  seldom  interfered  with 
parallel  market  activities. 

Physical  living  conditions  in  Luanda  were  deplorable  in  1988. 
The  elegant  marble  apartment  buildings  that  lined  the  city's  down- 
town streets  during  the  colonial  era  had  become  slums  with  neither 
running  water  nor  electricity.  Even  most  of  those  able  to  afford 
luxuries  were  living  without  basic  conveniences  or  amenities;  eve- 
ning activities,  such  as  cultural  events  or  dining  out,  were  rare. 
And  because  of  a  lack  of  spare  parts,  there  were  few  taxis  or  other 
means  of  transportation. 

Role  of  Women  and  Children 

Almost  no  research  existed  on  the  role  of  women  and  children 
in  Angolan  society  in  the  late  1980s,  but  a  few  generalities  could 
be  drawn.  In  rural  Angola,  as  in  many  African  economies,  most 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  the  population  engaged  in  agricultural  activities.  Women  per- 
formed much  of  the  agricultural  labor,  as  did  children  of  both  sexes. 
Marriage  generally  involved  family,  political,  and  economic  inter- 
ests as  well  as  personal  considerations.  The  household  was  the  most 
important  unit  of  production  and  was  usually  composed  of  several 
generations.  The  women  grew  and  prepared  most  of  the  food  for 
the  household  and  performed  all  other  domestic  work.  Because  of 
their  major  role  in  food  production,  women  shared  relatively  equal 
status  with  men,  who  spent  much  of  their  time  hunting  or  tending 
cattle. 

Many  women  and  children  belonged  to  two  mass  organizations: 
the  Organization  of  Angolan  Women  (Organizacao  da  Mulher 
Angolana — OMA)  and  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation 
of  Angola- Youth  Movement  (Juventude  do  Movimento  Popular 
de  Libertagao  de  Angola — JMPLA).  Before  independence,  the 
OMA  and  JMPLA  were  instrumental  in  mobilizing  political  sup- 
port for  the  MPLA  among  thousands  of  Angolan  refugees.  After 
independence,  and  especially  after  the  creation  of  the  MPLA-PT 
in  1977,  the  mass  organizations  came  under  the  strict  control  of 
the  party  and  were  given  the  role  of  intermediaries  between  the 
MPLA-PT  and  the  population. 

In  1987  the  OMA  had  a  membership  of  1 .3  million  women,  most 
of  whom  lived  in  rural  areas.  Among  the  many  contributions  of 
OMA's  members  were  the  establishment  of  literacy  programs  and 
service  in  health  and  social  service  organizations  (see  Mass  Or- 
ganizations and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4).  Most  OMA  members, 
however,  were  poor  and  unemployed.  In  1988  only  10  percent  of 
MPLA-PT  members  were  women,  although  more  women  were 
finding  jobs  in  teaching  and  professions  from  which  they  had  been 
excluded  in  the  past. 

The  JMPLA,  which  claimed  a  membership  of  72,000  teenagers 
and  students  in  1988,  became  the  only  route  to  party  membership 
after  1977.  JMPLA  members  were  required  to  participate  in  the 
Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial  Troops,  formerly 
the  People's  Defense  Organization  (Organizacao  de  Defesa 
Popular — ODP),  and  political  study  groups.  The  relatively  small 
size  of  the  organization,  however,  was  indicative  of  the  difficulty 
the  government  faced  in  recruiting  young  people  from  rural  areas. 

Effects  of  the  Insurgency 

The  UNITA  insurgency  had  a  far  greater  impact  on  Angola's 
social  fabric  than  the  government's  socialist  policies.  Hundreds  of 
thousands  of  displaced  persons  were  forced  not  only  to  seek  refuge 
in  towns  and  military  protected  resettlement  areas  but  also  to 


91 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

disrupt  traditional  life-styles.  Intensive  military  recruitment  drained 
urban  and  rural  areas  of  much  of  the  young  adult  male  popula- 
tion as  well.  UNIT  A  frequendy  reported  avoidance  of  government 
military  conscription  and  battlefield  desertions,  and  its  spokesper- 
sons also  claimed  in  late  1988  that  large  numbers  of  teachers  in 
rural  areas  had  been  recruited  by  the  government,  depleting  the 
schools  of  trained  instructors.  It  was  not  clear  to  what  extent,  if 
any,  this  disruption  changed  the  social  order  in  families,  or  if  vil- 
lage social  structures  remained  intact. 

Another  significant  influence  on  the  population  caused  by  the 
UNITA  insurgency  was  the  emphasis  on  defense.  Two  militia  forces 
were  created:  the  ODP  in  1975  (renamed  the  Directorate  of  Peo- 
ple's Defense  and  Territorial  Troops  in  1985),  and  the  People's 
Vigilance  Brigades  (Brigadas  Populares  de  Vigilancia — BPV)  in 
1984  (see  War  and  the  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Society;  In- 
ternal Security  Forces  and  Organization,  ch.  5).  The  Directorate 
of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial  Troops,  operating  as  a  back- 
up force  to  the  Angolan  armed  forces,  had  both  armed  and  un- 
armed units  dispersed  throughout  the  country  in  villages  to  protect 
the  population  from  UNITA  attacks.  Although  the  Directorate  of 
People's  Defense  and  Territorial  Troops  had  an  estimated  50,000 
official  members  in  1988,  as  many  as  500,000  men  and  women 
may  have  been  participating  in  reserve  functions.  The  BPV, 
organized  more  as  a  mass  organization  than  as  a  branch  of  the 
armed  forces,  had  an  estimated  1.5  million  members  in  1987. 
Designed  to  function  in  urban  areas,  the  BPV  had  broader  respon- 
sibilities than  the  Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial 
Troops,  including  political  and  military  training  of  the  population 
and  detection  of  criminal  activities. 

The  consequences  of  war-related  economic  failure  also  disrupted 
Angolan  society  profoundly.  The  government  had  been  compelled 
to  expend  enormous  economic  and  human  resources  to  fight 
UNITA,  denying  the  population  basic  goods  and  services  as  well 
as  diverting  those  with  the  skills  badly  needed  for  national  develop- 
ment into  military  positions.  The  toll  was  heaviest  among  children, 
who  suffered  the  most  from  substandard  health  conditions  and  the 
underfunded  and  understaffed  school  system.  The  insurgency  also 
contributed  heavily  to  underproduction  in  the  agricultural  sector, 
resulting  in  dangerous  food  shortages,  especially  in  rural  areas,  and 
in  the  country's  dependence  on  external  food  sources. 

Religious  Life 

The  attitude  of  the  Angolan  government  toward  religion  was 
inconsistent.  The  MPLA-PT's  strong  commitment  to  Marxism- 


92 


Young  victims  of  the  insurgency 
Courtesy  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (Yannick  Muller) 

Leninism  meant  that  its  attitude  toward  religion,  at  least  officially, 
corresponded  to  that  of  the  traditional  Soviet  Marxist-Leninist 
dogma,  which  generally  characterized  religion  as  antiquated  and 
irrelevant  to  the  construction  of  a  new  society.  The  government 
also  viewed  religion  as  an  instrument  of  colonialism  because  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church's  close  association  with  the  Portuguese. 
Furthermore,  because  membership  in  the  party  was  the  road  to 
influence,  party  leaders  and  many  of  the  cadres  were  likely  to  have 
no  formal  religious  commitment,  or  at  any  rate  to  deny  having 
one  (even  though  most  of  Angola's  leaders  in  the  1980s  were  edu- 
cated at  Catholic,  Baptist,  or  Congregational  mission  schools). 
Nonetheless,  the  government  acknowledged  the  prevalence  of 
religion  in  Angolan  societies  and  officially  recognized  the  equality 
of  all  religions,  tolerating  religious  practices  as  long  as  the  churches 
restricted  themselves  to  spiritual  matters,  The  state,  however,  did 
institute  certain  specific  controls  over  religious  organizations,  and 
it  was  prepared  to  act  quickly  when  it  felt  that  it  was  challenged 
by  the  acts  of  a  specific  group.  Thus,  in  early  1978  the  MPLA-PT 
Political  Bureau  ordered  the  registration  of  "legitimate"  churches 
and  religious  organizations.  Although  priests  and  missionaries  were 
permitted  to  stay  in  the  country  as  foreign  residents  and  although 
religious  groups  or  churches  could  receive  goods  from  abroad,  fur- 
ther construction  of  new  churches  without  a  permit  was  forbidden. 


93 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

A  conflict  developed  in  the  late  1970s  between  the  government 
and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  In  December  1977,  the  bishops 
of  Angola's  three  archdioceses,  meeting  in  Lubango,  drafted  a 
pastoral  letter  subsequently  read  to  all  churches  that  claimed  fre- 
quent violations  of  religious  freedom.  Their  most  specific  complaint 
was  that  the  establishment  of  a  single  system  of  education  ignored 
the  rights  of  parents.  They  also  objected  to  the  government's  sys- 
tematic atheistic  propaganda  and  its  silencing  of  the  church's  radio 
station  in  1976.  In  response  to  charges  of  government  meddling 
in  religious  affairs,  President  Neto  issued  a  decree  in  January  1978 
stating  that  there  was  complete  separation  between  church  and 
religious  institutions.  In  addition,  Jornal  de  A ngola  printed  an  attack 
on  the  bishops,  accusing  them  of  questioning  the  integrity  of  the 
Angolan  revolutionary  process. 

The  outcome  of  the  conflict  had  repercussions  for  Protestant 
churches  as  well  as  for  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  In  essence, 
the  government  made  it  clear  that  religious  institutions  were  to  ad- 
here to  government  and  party  rulings  regarding  nonreligious  issues. 

In  the  late  1980s,  there  was  a  slight  change  in  the  government's 
policy  toward  religion.  The  president  and  others  in  the  govern- 
ment and  party  elites,  recognizing  that  political  opposition  had  not 
coalesced  around  religious  leaders,  became  less  fearful  of  religious 
opposition  and  therefore  more  tolerant  of  religious  groups  in  gener- 
al. One  exception  was  the  Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  Church  in  the 
World,  an  independent  Christian  sect  founded  in  1949  by  Simon 
Mtoko  (also  spelled  Simao  Toco).  Mtoko,  a  Protestant  from  Uige 
Province,  fashioned  the  sect  after  the  Kimbanguist  movement  (not 
to  be  confused  with  traditional  kimbanda  practices,  which  had  arisen 
in  the  Belgian  Congo  in  the  1920s;  see  Indigenous  Religious  Sys- 
tems, this  ch.).  The  government  had  been  especially  suspicious  of 
the  Mtokoists  because  of  their  strong  support  in  Benguela  Province, 
most  of  whose  residents  were  Ovimbundu,  the  principal  support- 
ers of  UNITA.  Mtokoists  also  were  involved  in  riots  in  the  Catate 
region  of  Bengo  Province  and  in  Luanda  at  the  end  of  1986,  and 
they  attacked  a  prison  in  Luanda  in  1987  in  an  attempt  to  free  fel- 
low believers  who  had  been  arrested  in  the  1986  riots.  As  a  result, 
the  government  banned  the  sect,  claiming  that  its  members  had 
used  religion  to  attack  the  state  and  had  therefore  lost  their  legiti- 
macy. Subsequently,  however,  as  part  of  the  general  relaxation  of 
its  policy  on  religion,  the  government  softened  its  position  on  the 
sect  and  in  March  1988  declared  it  a  legal  religion. 

Christianity 

Religious  affiliation  in  Angola  was  difficult  to  define  because  many 
who  claimed  membership  in  a  specific  Christian  denomination  also 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


shared  perceptions  of  the  natural  and  supernatural  order  charac- 
teristic of  indigenous  religious  systems.  Sometimes  the  Christian 
sphere  of  the  life  of  a  community  was  institutionally  separate  from 
the  indigenous  sphere.  In  other  cases,  the  local  meaning  and  prac- 
tice of  Christianity  were  modified  by  indigenous  patterns  of  belief 
and  practice. 

Although  Roman  Catholic  missions  were  largely  staffed  by  non- 
Portuguese  during  the  colonial  era,  the  relevant  statutes  and  ac- 
cords provided  that  foreign  missionaries  could  be  admitted  only 
with  the  approval  of  the  Portuguese  government  and  the  Vatican 
and  on  condition  that  they  be  integrated  with  the  Portuguese  mis- 
sionary organization.  Foreign  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  were 
required  to  renounce  the  laws  of  their  own  country,  submit  to  Por- 
tuguese law,  and  furnish  proof  of  their  ability  to  speak  and  write 
the  Portuguese  language  correctly.  Missionary  activity  was  placed 
under  the  authority  of  Portuguese  priests.  All  of  this  was  consis- 
tent with  the  Colonial  Act  of  1930,  which  advanced  the  view  that 
Portuguese  Catholic  missions  overseas  were  "instruments  of  civili- 
zation and  national  influence."  In  1940  the  education  of  Africans 
was  declared  the  exclusive  responsibility  of  missionary  personnel. 
All  church  activities,  education  included,  were  to  be  subsidized  by 
the  state.  In  reality,  Protestant  missions  were  permitted  to  engage 
in  educational  activity,  but  without  subsidy  and  on  condition  that 
Portuguese  be  the  language  of  instruction  (see  Education,  this  ch.). 

The  important  Protestant  missions  in  place  in  the  1960s  (or  their 
predecessors)  had  arrived  in  Angola  in  the  late  nineteenth  century 
and  therefore  had  been  at  work  before  the  Portuguese  managed 
to  establish  control  over  the  entire  territory.  Their  early  years,  there- 
fore, were  little  affected  by  Portuguese  policy  and  practice.  Before 
the  establishment  of  the  New  State  (Estado  Novo)  in  Portugal  in 
1926,  the  authorities  kept  an  eye  on  the  Protestant  missions  but 
were  not  particularly  hostile  to  them  (see  Angola  under  the  New 
State,  ch.  1).  Settlers  and  local  administrators  often  were  hostile, 
however,  because  Protestant  missionaries  tended  to  be  protective 
of  what  they  considered  their  charges.  In  those  early  years  and  later, 
Protestant  missionaries  were  not  only  evangelists  but  also  teachers, 
healers,  and  counselors — all  perhaps  in  a  paternal  fashion  but  in 
ways  that  involved  contact  with  Africans  in  a  more  sustained  fashion 
than  was  characteristic  of  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  and  local 
administrators. 

Protestant  missionaries  worked  at  learning  the  local  languages, 
in  part  to  communicate  better  with  those  in  their  mission  field,  but 
above  all  in  order  to  translate  the  Old  Testament  and  the  New 
Testament  into  African  tongues.  Protestant  missionaries  were  much 


95 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

more  likely  than  administrators  and  settlers  to  know  a  local  lan- 
guage. Roman  Catholic  missionaries  did  not  similarly  emphasize 
the  translation  of  the  Bible  and,  with  some  exceptions,  did  not  make 
a  point  of  learning  a  Bantu  language. 

Because  specific  Protestant  denominations  were  associated  with 
particular  ethnic  communities,  the  structure  of  religious  organi- 
zation was  linked  to  the  structure  of  these  communities.  This  con- 
nection was  brought  about  in  part  by  the  tendency  of  entire 
communities  to  turn  to  the  variety  of  Protestantism  offered  local- 
ly. The  conversion  of  isolated  individuals  was  rare.  Those  individu- 
als who  did  not  become  Christians  remained  to  a  greater  or  lesser 
extent  adherents  of  the  indigenous  system;  unless  they  migrated 
to  one  of  the  larger  towns,  persons  of  a  specific  locality  did  not 
have  the  option  of  another  kind  of  Christianity.  Those  members 
of  a  community  who  had  not  yet  become  Christians  were  tied  by 
kinship  and  propinquity  to  those  individuals  who  had.  On  the  one 
hand,  indigenous  patterns  of  social  relations  affected  church 
organization;  on  the  other  hand,  the  presence  of  Christians  in  the 
community  affected  the  local  culture  to  varying  degrees.  Chris- 
tians who  could  quote  Scripture  in  the  local  tongue  contributed 
phrases  to  it  that  others  picked  up,  and  the  attributes  of  the  Chris- 
tian God  as  interpreted  by  the  specific  denomination  sometimes 
became  attached  to  the  high  god  of  the  indigenous  religious  sys- 
tem and  typically  made  that  deity  more  prominent  than  previously. 

The  involvement  of  the  Protestant  churches  in  the  languages  of 
their  mission  areas,  their  medical  and  other  welfare  activity,  and 
their  ability  to  adapt  to  local  structures  or  (in  the  case  of  the 
Methodists  among  the  Mbundu)  to  be  fortuitously  consistent  with 
them  gave  Protestants  much  more  influence  than  their  numbers 
would  suggest.  For  example,  the  leaders  of  the  three  major  nation- 
alist movements  in  the  1970s — the  MPLA,  UNITA,  and  the 
FNLA — had  been  raised  as  Protestants,  and  many  others  in  these 
movements  were  also  Protestants,  even  if  their  commitment  may 
have  diminished  over  time. 

Estimates  of  the  number  of  Roman  Catholics  in  Angola  varied. 
One  source  claimed  that  about  55  percent  of  the  population  in  1985 
was  Roman  Catholic;  another  put  the  proportion  in  1987  at  68 
percent.  Most  Roman  Catholics  lived  in  western  Angola,  not  only 
because  that  part  of  the  country  was  the  most  densely  populated 
but  also  because  Portuguese  penetration  into  the  far  interior  was 
comparatively  recent  and  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  tended  to 
follow  the  flag.  The  most  heavily  Roman  Catholic  area  before 
independence  was  Cabinda  Province,  where  most  of  the  people  were 
Bakongo.  Bakongo  in  Angola  proper  were  not  quite  so  heavily 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Roman  Catholic,  and  Protestantism  was  very  influential  there. 
There  was  a  substantial  proportion  of  Roman  Catholics  among  the 
Mbundu  in  Luanda  and  Cuanza  Norte  provinces.  Less  heavily 
Catholic  were  the  Ovimbundu-populated  provinces  of  Benguela 
and  Huambo,  although  the  city  of  Huambo  had  been  estimated 
to  be  two-thirds  Catholic.  In  the  southern  and  eastern  districts, 
the  proportion  of  Roman  Catholics  dropped  considerably. 

The  proportion  of  Protestants  in  the  Angolan  population  was 
estimated  at  10  percent  to  20  percent  in  the  late  1980s.  The  majority 
of  them  presumably  were  Africans,  although  some  mesticos  may  have 
been  affiliated  with  one  or  another  Protestant  church. 

The  government  recognized  eleven  Protestant  denominations: 
the  Assembly  of  God,  the  Baptist  Convention  of  Angola,  the  Bap- 
tist Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  the  Congregational  Evangeli- 
cal Church  of  Angola,  the  Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  the 
Evangelical  Church  of  South- West  Angola,  the  Our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  Church  in  the  World  (Kimbanguist),  the  Reformed  Evan- 
gelical Church  of  Angola,  the  Seventh-Day  Adventist  Church,  the 
Union  of  Evangelical  Churches  of  Angola,  and  the  United  Meth- 
odist Church. 

In  the  late  1980s,  statistics  on  Christian  preferences  among  eth- 
nic groups  were  unavailable,  but  proportions  calculated  from  the 
1960  census  probably  had  not  changed  significantly.  According  to 
the  1960  census,  about  21  percent  of  the  Ovimbundu  were  Protes- 
tants, but  later  estimates  suggest  a  smaller  percentage.  The  sole 
Protestant  group  active  among  the  Mbundu  was  the  Methodist  Mis- 
sion, largely  sponsored  by  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  of  the 
United  States.  Portuguese  data  for  1960  indicated  that  only  8  per- 
cent of  the  Mbundu  considered  themselves  Protestants,  but  Prot- 
estant missions  had  considerable  success  among  the  Dembos.  As 
many  as  35  percent  of  the  Bakongo  were  considered  Protestants 
by  the  official  religious  census  of  1960,  with  Baptists  being  the  most 
numerous. 

In  addition  to  the  Protestant  churches  directly  generated  by  the 
missions  and  continuing  in  a  more  or  less  orthodox  pattern,  there 
were  other  groups,  which  stemmed  at  least  in  part  from  the  Protes- 
tant experience  but  expressed  a  peculiarly  local  tendency  and  which 
were  dominated  entirely  by  Africans.  The  number  of  Angolans 
identifying  with  such  African  churches  is  not  known,  but  it  is  rea- 
sonable to  assume  that  many  Angolans  were  attached  to  them. 

Indigenous  Religious  Systems 

There  were  as  many  indigenous  religious  systems  in  Angola  as 
there  were  ethnic  groups  or  even  sections  of  ethnic  groups.  Two 


97 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

or  more  ethnic  groups  might  share  specific  elements  of  belief,  ritual, 
and  organizational  principle,  but  the  configuration  of  these  elements 
would  be  different  for  each  group  or  section.  Nevertheless,  certain 
patterns  were  widespread. 

Most  traditional  African  religions  claim  the  existence  of  a  high 
god,  but  this  deity's  attributes  vary.  For  example,  some  groups 
emphasize  the  high  god's  role  as  a  creator,  while  others  do  not. 
Specific  events  in  the  human  world  are  not  usually  explained  by 
reference  to  this  god,  nor  is  a  cult  addressed  to  it. 

The  active  entities  in  indigenous  religious  systems  are  ancestral 
and  nature  spirits.  Ancestral  spirits  are  considered  relevant  to  the 
welfare  of  a  descent  group  or  its  members,  and  nature  spirits  are 
considered  relevant  to  the  welfare  of  a  community  in  a  given  loca- 
tion. However,  specific  individuals  may  be  directly  affected  by  one 
of  the  nature  spirits  resident  in  rocks  or  trees  or  in  natural  forces 
such  as  wind  or  lightning. 

Ancestral  spirits,  especially  those  of  recently  deceased  kin,  must 
be  honored  with  appropriate  rituals  if  they  are  expected  to  look 
favorably  on  the  enterprises  of  their  descendants.  Only  some  of 
these  rituals  are  performed  by  the  descent  group  as  a  whole.  More 
frequently,  they  are  performed  by  and  on  behalf  of  a  segment  of 
the  group  or  an  individual. 

In  theory,  nature  spirits  are  not  generally  considered  to  have 
led  a  human  existence,  but  there  are  exceptions.  Occasionally,  the 
spirits  of  local  rulers  or  others  are  detached  from  specific  descent 
groups  or  are  considered  to  have  the  characteristics  of  other  nature 
spirits  in  that  they  are  resident  in  features  of  the  landscape. 

The  spirits  of  the  ancestors  of  a  kin  group  are  looked  to  for 
assistance  in  economic  and  social  matters,  and  some  misfortunes — 
famine,  poor  crops,  personal  losses — are  ascribed  to  failure  to  have 
performed  the  appropriate  rituals  or  to  having  misbehaved  in  some 
other  way.  Not  all  misfortunes  are  attributed  to  ancestral  or  nature 
spirits,  however.  Many  people  believe  that  magical  powers  inhere 
in  things  and  that  these  powers,  though  usually  neutral,  may  be 
used  malevolently  to  afflict  others  or  to  prevent  others  from  deal- 
ing with  affliction,  particularly  illness  and  death.  It  is  further  thought 
that  individuals,  sometimes  unconsciously  and  without  the  use  of 
material  or  technical  means,  can  bring  illness  or  other  affliction 
to  human  beings.  Such  persons,  usually  called  witches,  are  thought 
to  be  marked  by  the  presence  of  a  substance  in  the  stomach  or  other 
organ.  The  terms  w itch  and  sorcerer  have  been  applied  to  those  who 
use  their  power  malevolently,  and  the  distinction  between  the  two 
is  based  in  part  on  whether  the  power  is  inherited  (witch)  or  acquired 
in  exchange  for  something  of  value  (sorcerer),  whether  the  power 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


is  mystical  or  technical,  and  whether  the  power  is  used  on  one's 
(the  witch's)  own  behalf  or  on  behalf  of  others,  at  a  price.  In  fact, 
this  distinction  is  made  only  in  some  societies  and  may  be  linked 
to  certain  features  of  community  social  structures  and  associated 
with  patterns  of  accusation — whether  kin  by  blood  or  marriage  or 
non-kin  are  held  to  be  responsible. 

Individual  difficulties  are  attributed  to  witchcraft,  sorcery,  or 
the  acts  of  ancestral  or  nature  spirits.  The  determination  is  usually 
made  by  a  diviner,  a  specialist  whose  personal  power  and  use  of 
material  objects  are  held  to  be  generally  benevolent  (although  there 
are  cases  in  which  a  diviner  may  be  accused  of  sorcery)  and  whose 
sensitivity  to  patterns  of  stress  and  strain  in  the  community  help 
him  or  her  arrive  at  a  diagnosis.  A  diviner — widely  called  a  kim- 
banda — may  also  have  extensive  knowledge  of  herbal  medicine,  and 
at  least  part  of  the  work  of  the  kimbanda  is  devoted  to  the  application 
of  that  knowledge. 

The  kimbanda  is  said  to  have  inherited  or  acquired  the  ability 
to  communicate  with  spirits.  In  many  cases,  the  acquisition  of  such 
power  follows  illness  and  possession  by  a  specific  spirit.  The  profi- 
ciency and  degree  of  specialization  of  diviners  varies  widely.  Some 
will  deal  only  with  particular  symptoms;  others  enjoy  broad  repute 
and  may  include  more  than  one  village,  or  even  more  than  one 
province,  in  their  rounds.  The  greater  the  reputation  of  the  kim- 
banda, the  more  he  or  she  charges  for  services.  This  widespread 
term  for  diviner/healer  has  entered  into  local  Portuguese,  and  so 
central  is  the  role  of  the  kimbanda  to  the  complex  of  beliefs  and  prac- 
tices characterizing  most  indigenous  religions  that  some  sources, 
such  as  the  Jornal  de  Angola,  have  applied  the  term  kimbandism  to 
indigenous  systems  when  cataloging  Angolan  religions. 

In  general,  the  belief  in  spirits  (ancestral  or  natural),  witches, 
and  sorcerers  is  associated  with  a  worldview  that  leaves  no  room 
for  the  accidental.  Whether  events  are  favorable  or  adverse,  respon- 
sibility for  them  can  in  principle  be  attributed  to  a  causal  agent. 
If  things  go  well,  the  correct  ritual  has  been  performed  to  placate 
the  spirits  or  invoke  their  help.  If  things  go  badly,  the  correct  ritu- 
al has  not  been  performed,  or  a  spirit  has  been  otherwise  provoked, 
or  malevolent  individuals  have  succeeded  in  breaching  whatever 
protective  (magical)  measures  have  been  taken  against  them.  This 
outlook  often  persisted  in  Angola  among  individuals  who  had  been 
influenced  by  Christianity  or  secular  education.  With  some  changes 
in  particulars,  it  seemed  to  pervade  urban  areas,  where  a  kimbanda 
rarely  lacked  clients. 


99 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Education 

Conditions  Before  Independence 

African  access  to  educational  opportunities  was  highly  limited 
for  most  of  the  colonial  period.  Until  the  1950s,  facilities  run  by 
the  government  were  few  and  largely  restricted  to  urban  areas. 
Responsibility  for  educating  Africans  rested  with  Roman  Cath- 
olic and  Protestant  missions  (see  Religious  Life,  this  ch.).  As  a  con- 
sequence, each  of  the  missions  established  its  own  school  system, 
although  all  were  subject  to  ultimate  control  by  the  Portuguese  with 
respect  to  certain  policy  matters. 

Education  beyond  the  primary  level  was  available  to  very  few 
Africans  before  1960,  and  the  proportion  of  the  age-group  that  went 
on  to  secondary  school  in  the  early  1970s  was  still  quite  low. 
Nevertheless,  primary  school  attendance  was  growing  substantially. 
Whether  those  entering  primary  schools  were  acquiring  at  least 
functional  literacy  in  Portuguese  was  another  matter.  Primary 
school  consisted  of  a  total  of  four  years  made  up  of  a  pair  of  two- 
year  cycles.  Portuguese  statistics  do  not  indicate  how  many  stu- 
dents completed  each  of  the  cycles,  but  it  is  estimated  that  far  fewer 
completed  the  full  four  years  than  entered  the  first  cycle.  Similar- 
ly, there  seems  to  be  general  agreement  among  observers  that  a 
great  number  of  those  who  entered  secondary  school  did  not  com- 
plete it.  In  general,  the  quality  of  teaching  at  the  primary  level  was 
low,  with  instruction  carried  on  largely  by  Africans  with  very  few 
qualifications.  Most  secondary  school  teachers  were  Portuguese, 
but  the  first  years  of  secondary  school  were  devoted  to  materials 
at  the  primary  level. 

Conditions  after  Independence 

The  conflict  between  the  Portuguese  and  the  various  nationalist 
movements  and  the  civil  war  that  ensued  after  independence  left 
the  education  system  in  chaos.  Most  Portuguese  instructors  had 
left  (including  virtually  all  secondary  school  staff),  many  buildings 
had  been  damaged,  and  the  availability  of  instructional  materials 
was  limited. 

A  report  of  the  First  Party  Congress  published  in  December  1977 
gave  education  high  priority.  The  report  emphasized  Marxism- 
Leninism  as  a  base  for  the  education  system  and  its  importance 
in  shaping  the  "new  generation,"  but  the  objectives  of  develop- 
ing national  consciousness  and  respect  for  traditional  values  were 
also  mentioned.  The  training  at  all  levels  of  persons  who  would 
be  able  to  contribute  to  economic  development  was  heavily  stressed. 

The  government  estimated  the  level  of  illiteracy  following 


100 


Students  at  a  secondary  school  in  Luanda 

independence  at  between  85  percent  and  90  percent  and  set  the 
elimination  of  illiteracy  as  an  immediate  task.  Initiated  in  November 
1976,  the  literacy  drive  gave  priority  to  rural  peasants  who  had 
been  completely  ignored  by  the  Portuguese  education  system.  The 
priorities  for  education  were,  in  order  of  importance,  literacy, 
primary  education,  secondary  education,  and  intermediate  and 
university  education.  The  government  established  the  National 
Literacy  Commission  (under  the  leadership  of  the  minister  of  edu- 
cation) to  administer  the  literacy  campaign. 

The  government  reported  that  in  the  first  year  of  the  literacy 
campaign  (November  1976  to  November  1977)  102,000  adults 
learned  to  read  and  write;  by  1980  the  figure  had  risen  to  1  mil- 
lion. By  1985  the  average  rate  of  adult  literacy  was  officially  esti- 
mated at  59  percent;  United  States  government  sources,  however, 
estimated  literacy  at  only  20  percent.  In  late  1987,  Angola's  offi- 
cial press  agency,  Angop,  reported  that  the  provinces  with  the  most 
newly  literate  people  included  Hufia,  Huambo,  and  Benguela  and 
that  8,152  literacy  teachers  had  participated  in  the  campaign  since 
its  inception. 

At  independence  there  were  25,000  primary  school  teachers,  but 
fewer  than  2,000  were  even  minimally  qualified  to  teach  primary 
school  children.  The  shortage  of  qualified  instructors  was  even  more 
pronounced  at  the  secondary  school  level,  where  there  were  only 
600  teachers.  Furthermore,  secondary  schools  existed  only  in  towns. 


101 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

The  First  Party  Congress  responded  to  this  problem  by  resolving  to 
institute  an  eight-year  compulsory  system  of  free,  basic  education 
for  children  between  ages  seven  and  fifteen.  Four  years  of  primary 
education,  provided  free  of  charge,  began  at  age  seven.  Secondary 
education,  beginning  at  age  eleven,  lasted  a  further  six  years. 

School  enrollment,  which  rose  very  slowly  considering  Ango- 
la's youthful  population,  reflected  the  dire  effects  of  the  insurgency. 
In  1977  the  government  reported  that  more  than  1  million  primary 
school  students  were  enrolled,  as  were  about  105,000  secondary 
school  students,  roughly  double  the  numbers  enrolled  in  1973.  What 
proportions  of  the  relevant  age-groups  these  students  constituted 
was  not  known,  but  in  the  case  of  the  primary  school  students  it 
may  have  been  almost  two-thirds,  and  in  that  of  secondary  school 
students,  perhaps  a  tenth  to  an  eighth.  Official  government  statis- 
tics released  in  1984  showed  that  primary  school  enrollment  had 
declined  to  870,410,  while  secondary  school  enrollment  (including 
vocational  school  and  teacher  training  students)  had  increased  to 
151,759.  This  made  for  combined  primary  and  secondary  school 
enrollment  consisting  of  49  percent  of  the  school-age  population. 
By  1986  the  primary  school  enrollment  had  increased  to  1 ,304, 145. 
Luanda's  Agostinho  Neto  University,  the  country's  only  univer- 
sity, had  an  enrollment  of  4,493  students  in  1984,  which  had 
declined  to  3,195  by  1986.  A  total  of  72,330  people  were  enrolled 
in  primary  adult  education  programs  in  1986. 

The  government  began  implementation  of  its  education  plan  in 
close  cooperation  with  its  allies,  particularly  Cuba.  Between  1978 
and  1981,  Cuba  sent  443  teachers  to  Angola.  According  to  an 
Angolan  source,  in  1987  an  estimated  4,000  Angolan  students, 
representing  one-fourth  of  all  foreign  students  from  Africa,  Asia, 
Latin  America,  and  the  Caribbean  studying  in  Cuba,  were  attend- 
ing Cuban  elementary,  middle,  and  college  preparatory  schools, 
as  well  as  polytechnical  institutes  and  the  Superior  Pedagogical  Poly- 
technic Institute.  Also  in  Cuba,  assisting  in  the  education  of  their 
compatriots,  was  a  group  of  twenty-seven  Angolan  teachers.  In 
addition,  the  Soviet  Union  participated  in  Angolan  education  pro- 
grams. More  than  1,000  Angolan  students  had  graduated  from 
intermediate  and  specialized  higher  education  programs  in  the 
Soviet  Union  by  the  end  of  1987,  at  which  time  100  Soviet  lec- 
turers were  teaching  at  Agostinho  Neto  University,  the  Luanda 
Naval  School,  and  the  Institute  of  Geology  and  Cartography  in 
the  Angolan  capital.  By  mid- 1988  United  States  sources  reported 
that  1,800  Angolan  students  were  studying  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

A  number  of  Angolan  organizations  become  active  during  the 
1980s  in  the  quest  for  better  educational  facilities.  In  1987  the 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

JMPLA  launched  a  special  campaign  to  recruit  1 ,000  young  peo- 
ple to  teach  in  primary  schools  in  Luanda  Province.  The  groups 
targeted  by  the  campaign  included  secondary  school  and  higher 
education  graduates,  as  well  as  some  workers.  The  OMA  not  only 
sponsored  programs  to  teach  women  to  read  and  write  but  was  also 
involved  in  programs  to  reduce  infant  mortality  and  promote  family 
planning.  Even  the  military  formed  a  special  group  in  1980,  the 
eighth  contingent  of  the  Comrade  Dangereux  Brigade,  whose  basic 
function  was  to  teach  primary  school;  6,630  brigade  members  were 
reported  to  have  taught  309,419  students  by  1987. 

Despite  the  government's  efforts,  the  UNIT  A  insurgency 
prevented  the  construction  of  a  new  education  system  on  the 
remains  of  that  inherited  from  the  Portuguese.  The  demands  of 
the  war  had  drained  funds  that  could  otherwise  have  been  applied 
to  building  schools,  printing  books,  and  purchasing  equipment. 
In  1988,  according  to  the  United  States  Center  for  Defense  Infor- 
mation, the  Angolan  government  spent  more  per  capita  on  the  mili- 
tary (US$892)  than  on  education  (US$310).  The  war  in  the 
southern  and  central  regions  of  the  country  also  prevented  the 
spread  of  the  school  system;  the  consequences  of  the  fighting, 
including  UNITA  attacks  on  schools  and  teachers  and  the  mas- 
sive displacement  of  rural  populations  in  those  areas,  disrupted  the 
education  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  school-age  children.  Fur- 
ther damaging  to  Angola's  future  was  the  fact  that  many  of  those 
studying  abroad  had  either  failed  to  complete  their  courses  of  study 
or  had  not  returned  to  Angola. 

Education  in  UNITA-Claimed  Territory 

By  the  mid-1980s,  UNITA  had  gained  control  over  a  large  part 
of  Angola's  southeast  and  claimed  to  have  gained  the  allegiance 
of  more  than  1  million  Angolans.  As  an  integral  part  of  his  strategy 
to  win  over  the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  populations  in  the  occupied 
area,  UNITA  leader  Jonas  Savimbi  established  a  state  within  a 
state,  complete  with  a  system  of  schools  and  hospitals  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  local  populations.  The  town  of  Jamba,  UNITA' s 
stronghold  in  southern  Cuando  Cubango  Province,  had  a  popula- 
tion of  between  10,000  and  15,000,  all  of  whom  claimed  loyalty 
to  UNITA  and  Savimbi. 

Although  much  of  the  information  released  by  UNITA  was 
propagandistic,  it  provided  a  rough  outline  of  the  educational  sit- 
uation in  UNITA  areas.  UNITA  claimed  that  its  complex  system 
consisted  of  nearly  1,000  schools,  in  which  almost  5,000  teachers 
taught  more  than  200,000  children.  A  Portuguese  reporter  who 
visited  UNITA-claimed  territory  in  late  1987  reported  that  the 


103 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

UNITA  education  system  consisted  of  two  years  of  kindergarten, 
four  years  of  primary  school,  and  seven  years  of  high  school.  Upon 
completion  of  high  school,  the  brightest  students  were  given  scholar- 
ships to  study  at  universities  in  Britain,  Cote  d'lvoire,  France,  Por- 
tugal, and  the  United  States.  Others  attended  middle-level  technical 
courses  in  agriculture,  nursing,  primary  school  teaching,  and  typ- 
ing in  Jamba's  Polytechnical  Institute.  UNITA' s  academic  organi- 
zation closely  resembled  that  of  Portugal,  with  Latin  an  important 
part  of  the  curriculum. 

Another  Portuguese  source  reported  in  mid- 1988  that  there  were 
ninety-eight  Angolan  scholarship  students  studying  in  Portugal 
under  UNITA  sponsorship.  Because  Portuguese  institutions  did 
not  recognize  the  courses  taught  in  Jamba,  UNITA-educated  stu- 
dents were  required  to  take  the  examinations  from  the  fourth  class 
level  up  to  university  entrance  examinations,  losing  two  or  three 
years  of  their  UNITA  education  in  the  process.  In  other  European 
countries,  however,  UNITA-sponsored  students  took  only  the 
examinations  required  for  admission  to  the  education  level  for  which 
they  wanted  to  enroll.  Nevertheless,  UNITA  preferred  to  send  its 
students  to  Portugal  because  of  the  common  language.  UNITA- 
sponsored  students  generally  studied  agronomy,  engineering,  and 
medicine. 

Health  and  Welfare 

In  general,  the  civil  war  had  degraded  the  quality  and  availabil- 
ity of  health  care  since  independence.  Logistical  problems  with  sup- 
ply and  distribution  of  equipment  as  well  as  the  lack  of  physical 
security  impeded  the  provision  of  health  care  throughout  the  coun- 
try, and  public  health  services  existed  only  in  areas  under  govern- 
ment control.  The  rest  of  the  country  depended  on  international 
and  private  relief  organizations,  although  UNITA  provided  a  fairly 
extensive  health  care  system  of  its  own  in  rebel- controlled  areas. 
Poor  even  by  African  standards,  health  conditions  in  Angola  were 
made  even  worse  by  the  failure  of  government  health  programs 
to  reach  much  of  the  population  and  by  the  movement  of  a  signifi- 
cant part  of  the  population  out  of  war-ravaged  regions.  The  coun- 
try remained  heavily  dependent  on  foreign  medical  assistance 
because  instruction  in  Angolan  medical  schools  had  progressed 
slowly. 

Prior  to  independence,  only  urban  inhabitants,  many  of  whom 
were  Portuguese,  had  access  to  health  facilities.  One  of  the  MPLA's 
priorities  when  it  came  into  power  was  to  provide  health  care  to 
the  entire  population  through  a  network  of  health  facilities  over- 
seen by  the  National  Health  Service,  an  organization  subordinate 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  the  Ministry  of  Health.  In  theory,  basic  health  workers  deter- 
mined the  level  of  care  required  by  each  patient.  In  rural  areas, 
village  dispensaries  and  health  stations  were  staffed  by  a  nurse, 
and  district  health  centers  provided  outpatient  services,  a  pharmacy, 
and  up  to  twenty  beds.  District  health  centers  referred  patients  to 
provincial  hospitals  when  necessary.  In  reality,  health  care  was 
limited  and  often  unavailable  in  rural  areas  because  of  the  lack  of 
resources  and  the  absence  of  government  control  throughout  much 
of  the  country.  The  government  claimed,  however,  to  run  700 
health  posts  and  140  health  centers  in  rural  areas  in  the  late  1980s. 
UNITA,  as  part  of  its  general  goal  of  disrupting  government  ser- 
vices, impeded  and  often  prevented  the  movement  of  health  care 
personnel  and  medical  equipment  in  many  areas  of  the  country, 
including  regions  outside  its  immediate  control.  Reports  from  var- 
ious sources,  mostly  appearing  in  the  Portuguese  press,  alleged  that 
UNITA  forces  had  attacked  and  destroyed  rural  medical  facilities. 

The  OMA,  the  National  Union  of  Angolan  Workers  (Uniao  Na- 
cional  dos  Trabalhadores  Angolanos — UNTA),  and  the  Angolan 
Red  Cross  were  also  involved  in  promoting  health  care  through 
the  provision  of  health  education,  vaccination  campaigns,  and  sur- 
veillance of  health  conditions.  Particularly  prominent  was  a  primary 
health  care  program  provided  by  the  Angolan  Red  Cross  in  urban 
shantytowns.  Most  health-related  programs,  however,  were 
administered  by  foreign  and  international  organizations  with  the 
cooperation  of  the  Angolan  government.  Most  of  these  programs, 
primarily  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (ICRC) 
and  various  UN  agencies,  provided  emergency  relief  aid  to  those 
affected  by  the  UNITA  insurgency.  The  ICRC  operated  mostly 
in  the  provinces  of  Huambo,  Bie,  and  Benguela,  administering 
projects  for  improving  nutrition,  sanitation,  and  public  health,  with 
a  total  staff  of  some  70  people,  assisted  by  about  40  physicians, 
nurses,  technicians,  and  administrators  from  foreign  Red  Cross 
societies  and  an  estimated  800  Angolan  relief  workers. 

Infectious  and  parasitic  diseases  were  prevalent  among  most  of 
the  population.  These  diseases  flourished  in  conditions  of  inade- 
quate to  nonexistent  environmental  sanitation,  poor  personal 
hygiene  habits,  substandard  living  conditions,  and  inadequate  to 
nonexistent  disease  control  programs.  These  conditions  caused  a 
cholera  epidemic  in  1987  and  1988  that  killed  almost  2,000  people 
in  twelve  provinces. 

Conditions  worsened  in  the  1980s,  primarily  because  the  UNI- 
TA insurgency  had  resulted  in  the  creation  of  a  massive  internal 
refugee  population  living  in  tent  camps  or  urban  shantytowns.  The 
most  frequent  causes  of  death  included  gastrointestinal  diseases, 


105 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

malaria,  respiratory  infections,  and  sexually  transmitted  diseases, 
all  of  which  were  aggravated  by  endemic  malnutrition.  The  most 
prevalent  diseases  included  acute  diarrhea,  cholera,  hepatitis, 
hymenolepiasis,  influenza,  leprosy,  meningitis,  onchocerciasis, 
schistosomiasis,  tuberculosis,  typhoid,  typhus,  yaws,  and  yellow 
fever.  In  addition,  in  1989  approximately  1.5  million  Angolans  were 
at  risk  of  starvation  because  of  the  insurgency  and  economic  mis- 
management. The  United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF) 
estimated  that  Angola  had  the  world's  fourth  highest  mortality  rate 
for  children  under  the  age  of  five,  despite  a  program  launched  in 
1987  by  UNICEF  to  vaccinate  children  against  diphtheria,  measles, 
polio,  tetanus,  tuberculosis,  and  whooping  cough.  UNICEF  claimed 
to  have  vaccinated  75  percent  of  all  Angolan  children  under  the 
age  of  one. 

If  statistics  provided  by  the  chief  of  the  Department  of  Hygiene 
and  Epidemiology  in  Angola's  Ministry  of  Health  were  accurate, 
the  incidence  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS)  in 
Angola  was  fairly  low  by  African  standards — 0.4  percent  of  blood 
donors  in  Luanda  and  2  percent  to  4  percent  of  adults  in  Cabinda 
tested  positive  for  the  AIDS  virus.  The  highest  percentage  of  cases 
was  in  the  northeast  region  bordering  Zaire.  There  were  indica- 
tions, however,  that  the  actual  number  of  AIDS  cases  was  signifi- 
cantly higher;  the  United  States-based  AIDS  Policy  Research 
Center  claimed  a  high  incidence  of  the  disease  among  Cuban  troops 
based  in  Angola  and  Angola-based  African  National  Congress 
members.  The  biggest  problems  in  determining  the  extent  of  the 
epidemic  were  inadequate  communications  systems  and  the  lack 
of  modern  blood  testing  or  computers  to  tabulate  the  death  toll  in 
rural  areas.  In  cities  controlled  by  the  government,  the  World 
Health  Organization  helped  initiate  an  information  and  testing  cam- 
paign in  1988  that  included  the  distribution  of  condoms. 

Another  prevalent  health  concern  centered  on  the  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  people,  many  of  them  women  and  children,  crippled  by 
land  mines  planted  by  UNITA  insurgents  and,  according  to  for- 
eign relief  organizations,  by  government  forces.  Estimates  on  the 
number  of  amputees  ranged  from  20,000  to  50,000.  Foreign  relief 
organizations  operated  orthopedic  centers  in  both  government- 
controlled  and  UNITA-occupied  areas,  providing  artificial  limbs 
and  physical  therapy.  The  largest  facility  was  the  Bomba  Alta 
Orthopedic  Center  in  Huambo,  Angola's  second  largest  city,  which 
was  operated  by  the  ICRC.  Designed  essentially  to  manufacture 
orthopedic  prostheses  and  braces  for  paralytics  and  to  provide  phys- 
ical rehabilitation,  in  1986  the  center  treated  822  patients,  of 
whom  725  were  adults  and  97  were  children.  In  1987  the  center  was 


106 


Women  washing  clothes  in  an  irrigation  canal, 
a  breeding  ground  for  insects  that  spread  parasitic  diseases 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


107 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

staffed  with  twenty-one  Angolan  and  three  foreign  medical  per- 
sonnel, ten  of  whom  specialized  in  orthopedic  prostheses  for  the 
lower  limbs.  The  center  provided  1,260  patients  with  prostheses 
in  1988. 

Most  of  Angola's  estimated  forty-five  hospitals,  all  government 
operated,  were  located  in  urban  areas  (see  table  3,  Appendix  A). 
Conditions  in  the  hospitals,  however,  were  often  deplorable.  Poor 
sanitation,  a  lack  of  basic  equipment,  and  disruptions  in  water  and 
electrical  services  were  common.  Trained  medical  personnel  were 
in  chronic  short  supply;  in  the  late  1980s,  Angola  had  only  230 
native-born  doctors,  and  only  30  percent  of  the  population  had 
access  to  health  services.  Most  physicians,  nurses,  technicians,  and 
national  health  advisers  were  foreigners — principally  Cubans,  East 
and  West  Europeans,  and  South  Americans.  In  1986  there  were 
about  800  physicians  in  Angola  (1  per  10,250  people — a  very  low 
ratio  even  by  African  standards)  and  somewhat  more  than  10,500 
nurses.  A  Western  source  reported  in  February  1989  that  323  phy- 
sicians, or  41  percent  of  the  total  number  of  doctors  in  government- 
controlled  areas,  were  Cubans. 

The  government  had  placed  a  high  priority  on  health  and  med- 
ical training  programs,  requiring  that  all  foreign  medical  person- 
nel teach  classes  in  medicine,  in  addition  to  performing  their  clinical 
duties.  There  were  two  physician  training  programs  in  the  coun- 
try (in  Luanda  and  Huambo)  and  more  than  twenty  nursing 
schools,  staffed  primarily  by  Angolan,  Cuban,  and  Soviet  teachers. 
Most  of  the  instructors  in  all  medical  training  programs  were  for- 
eign (primarily  Cuban,  Yugoslav,  Soviet,  and  East  German),  and 
Angolan  students  attended  medical  training  programs  in  Cuba, 
East  Germany,  and  Poland. 

According  to  a  Portuguese  source,  health  care  in  UNITA- 
controlled  Angola  was  well  organized  and  effective.  The  rebels  oper- 
ated a  hospital  in  Jamba,  which  was  staffed  by  Portuguese-trained 
medical  personnel  assisted  by  several  French  personnel  from  the 
volunteer  organization  Doctors  Without  Borders.  Jamba's  hospi- 
tal was  highly  specialized,  with  the  capability  to  meet  most  of  the 
needs  of  the  surrounding  population;  the  only  unavailable  treat- 
ments were  neurosurgery  and  cardiothoracic  surgery.  The  hospi- 
tal was  apparently  well  equipped  (probably  by  South  Africa)  with 
both  instruments  and  medicines.  Although  tropical  diseases  were 
prevalent,  war  casualties  were  often  the  reason  for  hospitalization, 
with  most  of  the  wounded  having  first  been  treated  at  field  hospi- 
tals established  along  the  military  fronts. 

*     *  * 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Sections  of  this  chapter  dealing  with  preindependence  subjects 
and  general  discussions  of  the  structure  of  society  are  based  on  parts 
of  larger  studies.  Such  studies  include  Hermann  Possinger's  "In- 
terrelations Between  Economic  and  Social  Change  in  Rural  Africa, ' ' 
Lawrence  W.  Henderson's  ''Ethnolinguistic  Worlds,"  Douglas  L. 
Wheeler  and  Rene  Pelissier's  Angola,  and  Joseph  C.  Miller's  Kings 
and  Kinsmen,  which  includes  a  discussion  of  the  complex  character 
of  Mbundu  matrilineages. 

Much  of  the  more  recent  information  has  been  culled  from  books, 
studies,  and  translations  of  foreign  publications  provided  by  the 
United  States  Joint  Publications  Research  Service.  Keith  Somer- 
ville's  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society  provides  an  excellent 
overview  of  the  government's  policies  on  education  and  religion; 
Linda  M.  Heywood's  "The  Dynamics  of  Ethnic  Nationalism  in 
Angola"  contains  a  detailed  analysis  of  UNITA's  aspirations  among 
the  Ovimbundu  as  well  as  Ovimbundu  life  in  present-day  Angola; 
and  Angola's  official  press  agency,  Angop,  has  provided  detailed 
items  pertaining  to  issues  of  health  and  education.  Also  of  great 
value  are  articles  in  the  Washington  Post  and  New  York  Times  by  for- 
eign correspondents  such  as  Blaine  Harden  and  James  Brooke  deal- 
ing with  the  effects  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  on  the  rural  and  urban 
populations. 

Two  valuable  sources  on  the  grave  conditions  in  which  most 
Angolans  live  are  the  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees'  Uprooted 
Angolans  and  the  final  report  of  the  United  States  Private  Vol- 
untary Agency  and  the  United  States  Government  Assessment 
Team  to  Angola.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations, 
see  Bibliography.) 


109 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Women  cultivate  a  field  belonging  to  a  farmers'  association. 


IN  1988  OBSERVERS  OFTEN  mentioned  Angola's  need  to 
rehabilitate  and  revive  its  economy.  Since  independence  in  1975, 
most  economic  production  had  deteriorated,  and  the  country  had 
become  almost  totally  dependent  on  the  export  of  oil  for  revenues. 
In  the  wake  of  the  war  for  independence,  the  flight  of  trained  per- 
sonnel and  foreign  capital  had  left  the  country  without  the  means 
to  continue  production.  Furthermore,  the  prolonged  insurgency, 
which  still  affected  much  of  the  country  in  late  1988,  had  under- 
mined those  enterprises  that  were  still  functioning.  Although  the 
political  and  military  situation  undoubtedly  contributed  to  these 
economic  problems,  the  Angolan  economy  had  never  been  very 
strong,  and  most  economic  successes  were  of  recent  and  precari- 
ous origins. 

By  the  late  1980s,  the  economic  potential  of  Angola  had  not  been 
reached.  Existing  transportation  networks,  including  railroads, 
roads,  and  ports,  serviced  only  a  fraction  of  the  traffic  they  were 
built  to  accommodate.  Likewise,  manufacturing  industries,  such 
as  textiles,  cement,  vehicle  assembly,  and  food  processing,  all  oper- 
ated well  below  their  productive  capacities.  Moreover,  vast  areas 
that  had  been  cultivated  for  both  cash  and  subsistence  crops  lay 
idle,  and  Angola  was  forced  to  import  food.  Indeed,  even  the  local 
labor  force,  which  had  worked  on  the  large  agricultural  estates, 
was  unemployed  and  subsisted  in  displacement  camps  or  in  the 
cities  on  foreign  aid.  The  only  exceptions  to  the  general  regression 
in  productivity  were  in  the  oil,  electric  power,  telecommunications, 
and  air  transportation  industries.  While  these  sectors  were  expand- 
ing, most  of  Angola's  economic  production  was  shrinking. 

Background  to  Economic  Development 

The  Angolan  economy  has  been  dominated  by  the  production 
of  raw  materials  and  the  use  of  cheap  labor  since  European  rule 
began  in  the  sixteenth  century.  The  Portuguese  used  Angola  prin- 
cipally as  a  source  for  the  thriving  slave  trade  across  the  Atlantic; 
Luanda  became  the  greatest  slaving  port  in  Africa  (see  Slave  Trad- 
ing in  the  1700s,  ch.  1).  After  the  Portuguese  Empire  abolished 
the  slave  trade  in  Angola  in  1858,  it  began  using  concessional  agree- 
ments, granting  exclusive  rights  to  a  private  company  to  exploit 
land,  people,  and  all  other  resources  within  a  given  territory.  In 
Mozambique,  this  policy  spawned  a  number  of  companies  notori- 
ous for  their  exploitation  of  local  labor.  But  in  Angola,  only  the 


113 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Diamond  Company  of  Angola  (Companhia  de  Diamantes  de 
Angola — Diamang)  showed  even  moderate  success.  At  the  same 
time,  Portuguese  began  emigrating  to  Angola  to  establish  farms 
and  plantations  (fazendas)  to  grow  cash  crops  for  export  (see  Agricul- 
ture, this  ch.).  Although  these  farms  were  only  partially  successful 
before  World  War  II,  they  formed  the  basis  for  the  economic  growth 
that  shaped  Angola's  economy  in  the  late  1980s. 

Before  World  War  II,  the  Portuguese  government  was  concerned 
primarily  with  keeping  its  colonies  self-sufficient  and  therefore 
invested  little  capital  in  Angola's  local  economy.  It  built  no  roads 
until  the  mid- 1920s,  and  the  first  railroad,  the  Benguela  Railway, 
was  not  completed  until  1929.  Between  1900  and  1940,  only  35,000 
Portuguese  emigrants  settled  in  Angola,  and  most  worked  in  com- 
merce in  the  cities,  facilitating  trade  with  Portugal.  In  the  rural 
areas,  Portuguese  settlers  often  found  it  difficult  to  make  a  living 
because  of  fluctuating  world  prices  for  sugarcane  and  sisal  and  the 
difficulties  in  obtaining  cheap  labor  to  farm  their  crops.  As  a  result, 
they  often  suspended  their  operations  until  the  market  prices  rose 
and  instead  marketed  the  produce  of  Angolan  farmers. 

But  in  the  wake  of  World  War  II,  the  rapid  growth  of  industri- 
alization worldwide  and  the  parallel  requirements  for  raw  materi- 
als led  Portugal  to  develop  closer  ties  with  its  colonies  and  to  begin 
actively  developing  the  Angolan  economy.  In  the  1930s,  Portugal 
started  to  develop  closer  trade  ties  with  its  colonies,  and  by  1940 
it  absorbed  63  percent  of  Angolan  exports  and  accounted  for  47 
percent  of  Angolan  imports,  up  from  39  percent  and  37  percent, 
respectively,  a  decade  earlier.  When  the  price  of  Angola's  prin- 
cipal crops — coffee  and  sisal — jumped  after  the  war,  the  Portuguese 
government  began  to  reinvest  some  profits  inside  the  country, 
initiating  a  series  of  projects  to  develop  infrastructure.  During  the 
1950s,  Portugal  built  dams,  hydroelectric  power  stations,  and  trans- 
portation systems.  In  addition,  Portuguese  citizens  were  encouraged 
to  emigrate  to  Angola,  where  planned  settlements  (colonatos)  were 
established  for  them  in  the  rural  areas.  Finally,  the  Portuguese  in- 
itiated mining  operations  for  iron  ore,  manganese,  and  copper  to 
complement  industrial  activities  at  home,  and  in  1955  the  first  suc- 
cessful oil  wells  were  drilled  in  Angola  (see  Extractive  Industries, 
this  ch.).  By  1960  the  Angolan  economy  had  been  completely  trans- 
formed, boasting  a  successful  commercial  agricultural  sector,  a 
promising  mineral  and  petroleum  production  enterprise,  and  an 
incipient  manufacturing  industry. 

Yet  by  1976,  these  encouraging  developments  had  been  reversed. 
The  economy  was  in  complete  disarray  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
war  of  independence  and  the  subsequent  internal  fighting  of  the 


114 


The  Economy 


liberation  movements.  According  to  the  ruling  Popular  Movement 
for  the  Liberation  of  Angola-Workers'  Party  (Movimento  Popu- 
lar de  Libertacao  de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho — MPLA-PT), 
in  August  1976  more  than  80  percent  of  the  agricultural  planta- 
tions had  been  abandoned  by  their  Portuguese  owners;  only  284 
out  of  692  factories  continued  to  operate;  more  than  30,000 
medium-level  and  high-level  managers,  technicians,  and  skilled 
workers  had  left  the  country;  and  2,500  enterprises  had  been  closed 
(75  percent  of  which  had  been  abandoned  by  their  owners).  Fur- 
thermore, only  8,000  vehicles  remained  out  of  153,000  registered, 
dozens  of  bridges  had  been  destroyed,  the  trading  network  was  dis- 
rupted, administrative  services  did  not  exist,  and  files  and  studies 
were  missing. 

Angola's  economic  ills  can  also  be  traced  to  the  legacy  of  Por- 
tuguese colonial  development.  Although  the  Angolan  economy  had 
started  to  show  strong  signs  of  growth  by  1960,  most  developments 
had  originated  recently  and  precariously.  Many  of  the  white  set- 
tlers had  come  to  Angola  after  1950  and  were  understandably  quick 
to  repatriate  during  the  war  of  independence.  During  their  stay, 
however,  these  settlers  had  appropriated  Angolan  lands,  disrupt- 
ing local  peasant  production  of  cash  and  subsistence  crops.  More- 
over, Angola's  industries  depended  on  trade  with  Portugal — the 
colony's  overwhelmingly  dominant  trade  partner — for  both  mar- 
kets and  machinery.  Only  the  petroleum  and  diamond  industries 
boasted  a  wider  clientele  for  investment  and  markets.  Most  im- 
portant, the  Portuguese  had  not  trained  Angolans  to  operate  the 
larger  industrial  or  agricultural  enterprises,  nor  had  they  actively 
educated  the  population.  Upon  independence  Angola  thus  found 
itself  without  markets  or  expertise  to  maintain  even  minimal  eco- 
nomic growth. 

As  a  result,  the  government  intervened,  nationalizing  most  bus- 
inesses and  farms  abandoned  by  the  Portuguese.  It  established  state 
farms  to  continue  producing  coffee,  sugar,  and  sisal,  and  it  took 
over  the  operations  of  all  factories  to  maintain  production.  These 
attempts  usually  failed,  primarily  because  of  the  lack  of  experienced 
managers  and  the  continuing  disruptions  in  rural  areas  caused  by 
the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola  (Uniao 
Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA)  insur- 
gency. Only  the  petroleum  sector  continued  to  operate  successful- 
ly, and  by  1980  this  sector  had  helped  the  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  reach  US$3.6  billion,  its  highest  level  up  to 
1988  (see  fig.  6).  In  the  face  of  serious  economic  problems  and  the 
continuing  war  throughout  the  countryside,  in  1987  the  govern- 
ment announced  plans  to  liberalize  economic  policies  and  promote 


115 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


1985  -  GDP  in  percent 


fH  Manufacturing 


■  Other 


Trade  and  Services 


[H  Agriculture 


g  Petroleum 


□  Transportation 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  43. 

Figure  6.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1985 

private  investment  and  involvement  in  the  economy.  But  most 
observers  believed  that  the  key  to  Angolan  economic  success  rest- 
ed only  partially  with  the  privatization  of  production.  Even  if  peace 
were  achieved,  the  economy  would  still  have  great  difficulties  in 
reaching  its  full  potential. 

Structure  of  the  Economy 

Since  independence,  the  economy  has  been  dominated  by  the 
oil  export  industry  and  drained  by  the  need  to  carry  on  the  war 
against  the  UNITA  insurgents.  Because  of  the  collapse  of  the  cash- 
crop  economy,  particularly  the  cultivation  of  coffee  by  large-scale 
plantations,  in  1988  the  economy  depended  totally  on  the  oil  sec- 
tor to  generate  funds.  As  a  result  of  increased  oil  production,  GDP 
had  risen  steadily  from  Kzl09.4  billion  (for  value  of  the  kwanza — 
see  Glossary)  in  1982  to  Kzl44.9  billion  in  1985. 

Unfortunately,  however,  as  the  war  against  UNITA  continued, 
most  revenue  from  oil  sales  was  quickly  spent  on  the  nation's  defense 
forces.  The  relationship  between  oil  profits  and  defense  require- 
ments became  most  acute  in  1986  when  the  price  of  oil  dropped, 
reducing  government  revenues  and  resulting  in  a  jump  in  the  per- 
centage of  government  spending  on  defense. 

At  the  same  time,  the  war  has  also  wreaked  havoc  in  the  already 


116 


The  Economy 


suffering  agricultural  sector,  forcing  the  government  to  use  pre- 
cious foreign  exchange  to  import  food.  Once  a  food  exporter,  An- 
gola by  the  late  1980s  was  importing  half  of  its  grain  requirements 
to  compensate  for  reduced  production  in  the  war- torn  rural  areas. 

Although  the  war  has  caused  much  rural-to-urban  migration, 
industries  based  in  the  cities  have  been  unable  to  harness  this  poten- 
tial work  force.  Most  of  the  Angolans  coming  into  the  cities  have 
little  education  or  training,  pardy  because  education  in  the  rural 
areas  has  been  disrupted  by  the  war.  Furthermore,  the  industries 
in  the  cities  have  been  hurt  by  the  lack  of  raw  materials,  including 
grain,  timber,  sugarcane,  and  cotton,  normally  produced  in  the 
rural  areas.  Consequendy,  industries  have  come  to  depend  on  high- 
priced  imported  materials.  The  frequent  unavailability  of  indus- 
trial inputs,  particularly  during  1986  when  the  government  severely 
restricted  imports  to  protect  foreign  exchange  reserves,  has  led  to 
underproduction  and  underuse  in  the  manufacturing  sector  (see 
Industry,  this  ch.). 

As  a  result  of  the  general  dislocation  in  the  economy,  particu- 
larly in  the  transportation  and  distribution  systems,  many  goods 
were  unavailable  in  the  1980s.  Thus,  the  black  market  (also  called 
the  parallel  market,  or  kadonga)  had  come  to  dominate  trade  and 
undermine  government  efforts  to  impose  order  on  domestic  produc- 
tion. Consequently,  the  value  of  the  kwanza  also  dropped,  mak- 
ing it  increasingly  difficult  for  the  government  to  attract  wage 
earners  to  either  agricultural  or  manufacturing  enterprises.  Fur- 
thermore, pilfering  and  graft  in  most  economic  enterprises  had 
become  common,  as  workers  recognized  that  goods  used  in  barter 
were  more  valuable  than  wages  paid  in  kwanzas.  As  a  result, 
inflation  was  high,  goods  were  scarce,  worker  absenteeism  was 
widespread,  and  productivity  was  low. 

Role  of  the  Government 

The  government,  under  the  control  of  the  MPLA-PT  Central 
Committee,  directly  controlled  most  of  the  economy  (see  Struc- 
ture of  Government,  ch.  4).  Government-owned  enterprises  took 
the  place  of  private  enterprises  and  businesses.  Because  most  Por- 
tuguese owners  of  manufacturing  concerns  and  agricultural  plan- 
tations fled  the  country  at  the  time  of  independence,  the  new 
government  was  forced  to  nationalize  factories  and  farms  to  keep 
them  operating.  The  government  also  intervened  directly  to  pro- 
tect the  country's  wealth  from  foreign  exploitation  by  creating  com- 
panies to  control  Angola's  mineral  and  petroleum  wealth. 
State-owned  companies  in  the  oil  industry  have  negotiated  attrac- 
tive terms  of  operation  with  the  foreign  companies  that  pump  the 


117 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


oil,  keeping  a  large  percentage  of  the  profits  inside  the  country. 
The  government's  economic  policies  thus  have  combined  ideolo- 
gy with  necessity  to  fill  the  gap  left  by  the  Portuguese,  without 
emulating  the  economic  system  created  under  colonialism. 

But  in  the  mid-1980s,  Angola's  centralized  economy  had  fal- 
len on  hard  times.  Despite  a  21.5  percent  rise  in  the  volume  of 
oil  production  in  1986,  government  oil  receipts  fell  to  only  45  per- 
cent of  the  budgeted  level  because  of  the  serious  drop  in  world- 
wide oil  prices  that  year.  As  a  result,  government  revenues  were 
barely  half  of  the  level  budgeted  for  1986  (see  table  4,  Appendix 
A).  The  government  responded  by  cutting  overall  expenditures 
by  5.5  percent,  mostly  for  items  related  to  economic  development, 
although  expenditures  for  social  services  rose  by  14  percent.  The 
war  against  UNITA  compounded  the  effect  of  lost  oil  revenue — 
defense  expenditures  rose  to  a  record  40.4  percent  of  the  1986 
budget  (see  War  and  the  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Society, 
ch.  5). 

Weak  economic  performance  since  independence  has  led  govern- 
ment planners  to  reorient  economic  ideology,  endorsing  programs 
to  liberalize  many  state  policies  and  return  some  state  functions 
to  the  private  sector.  In  December  1986,  the  government  decreed 
the  liberalization  of  agricultural  marketing,  allowing  for  some  free 
trade  of  agricultural  goods  to  motivate  farmers  to  produce  more 
for  the  local  market.  Since  the  departure  in  1975  of  the  Portuguese 
traders,  who  traditionally  had  monopolized  rural  trading,  the 
inefficiency  of  the  National  Company  for  the  Marketing  and  Dis- 
tribution of  Agricultural  Products  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Comer- 
cializagao  e  Distribuicao  de  Produtos  Agricolas — Encodipa)  and 
the  scarcity  of  basic  consumer  goods  and  manufactured  agricul- 
tural inputs  have  discouraged  peasants  from  producing  surpluses 
(see  table  5,  Appendix  A).  Most  peasants  have  retreated  to  a  purely 
subsistence  form  of  farming.  Similar  inadequacies  by  the  state 
livestock  marketing  company  have  resulted  in  serious  overstock- 
ing in  the  cattle-raising  southwestern  region  of  Angola.  Since 
1984  the  government  has  also  been  dissolving  the  state  farms 
established  on  land  formerly  owned  by  Portuguese  commercial 
farmers  and  has  been  turning  the  land  over  to  the  workers.  Agricul- 
tural development  stations  have  been  set  up  to  provide  these  farmers 
with  services  such  as  mechanized  plowing.  Furthermore,  local 
peasant  associations  and  cooperatives  have  been  established  through- 
out the  country  to  organize  production  and  consolidate  resources. 

On  August  17,  1987,  President  Jose  Eduardo  dos  Santos  an- 
nounced plans  to  restructure  the  economy.  These  reforms,  called 
the  Economic  and  Financial  Rectification  (Saneamento  Economico  e 


118 


The  Economy 


Financeiro — SEF),  put  the  economy  in  line  with  the  policy  guide- 
lines approved  by  the  Second  Party  Congress  in  December  1985. 
In  his  speech,  the  president  listed  several  factors  affecting  the  econ- 
omy, including  the  steep  fall  in  oil  prices  in  1986,  the  "excessive 
centralization  of  socialist  planning  methods,"  the  poor  manage- 
ment of  state  enterprises,  and  corruption.  The  SEF  program  man- 
dated a  strong  move  toward  the  private  sector  domestically  and 
abroad,  including  membership  in  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary)  and  World  Bank  (see  Glossary).  The  foreign 
investment  law  was  therefore  being  reviewed,  and  an  office  was 
to  be  established  to  promote  investment  and  reduce  negotiating 
costs.  The  SEF  program  also  called  for  the  privatization  of  non- 
strategic  state  enterprises,  ending  budget  subsidies  to  the  remain- 
ing state  enterprises,  shifting  from  state  farms  to  the  peasant  sector, 
raising  prices,  enacting  monetary  reforms,  and  devaluing  the  kwan- 
za.  The  president  noted  that  because  the  state  had  tried  to  enter 
so  many  different  areas  of  economic  activity,  it  had  been  unable 
to  prevent  the  deterioration  of  the  services  for  which  it  was  tradi- 
tionally responsible,  such  as  education,  health  services,  police,  and 
civil  administration.  One  area  that  the  government  was  unlikely 
to  relinquish  to  the  private  sector,  however,  was  control  over  imports 
(see  Foreign  Trade  and  Assistance,  this  ch.). 

In  addition  to  the  general  liberalization  of  economic  policies  that 
the  government  proposed,  the  MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  also 
launched  a  campaign  against  graft  and  the  parallel  market.  The 
parallel  market  offered  at  exorbitant  prices  a  full  range  of  goods 
normally  unavailable  inside  Angola.  By  June  1987,  forty-two  work 
teams  had  been  established  to  oversee  government  efforts  to  end 
this  illegal  trade,  and  the  provincial  authorities  had  ordered  the 
closing  of  all  parallel  markets.  In  addition,  the  government  direct- 
ed the  military  to  supervise  more  closely  the  movement  of  goods 
at  the  intraprovincial  and  interprovincial  level.  The  government 
also  started  an  educational  campaign  of  "consciousness  raising" 
on  farms  and  in  factories  to  discourage  the  theft  and  pilfering  that 
fed  goods  to  the  parallel  market. 

These  efforts  notwithstanding,  in  1988  sources  estimated  that 
approximately  40  percent  of  the  goods  imported  through  Luanda 
never  reached  their  intended  destinations  because  of  theft.  More- 
over, because  the  purchase  of  basic  foodstuffs  required  ration  cards, 
in  1988  the  parallel  market  was  thriving. 

Foreign  Trade  and  Assistance 

Because  of  the  overall  decline  in  productivity  after  independence, 
Angola  has  become  increasingly  dependent  on  foreign  trade  and 


119 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

assistance  to  meet  its  domestic  needs.  It  has  also  become  depen- 
dent on  oil  export  earnings  to  fund  imports.  Traditionally,  the  most 
important  imports  have  been  machinery  items,  especially  equip- 
ment for  the  oil  industry.  By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  military 
equipment  and  food  were  becoming  Angola's  most  important 
imports.  The  country  continued  to  export  most  of  its  oil  to  the  West, 
in  particular  the  United  States.  The  Soviet  Union,  as  the  coun- 
try's arms  supplier,  and  France  and  the  United  States,  as  suppli- 
ers of  oil  equipment,  were  the  country's  major  import  partners. 
Assistance  from  individual  foreign  countries  and  international 
organizations  was  also  becoming  increasingly  important  to  Angola 
because  of  its  mounting  food  crisis. 

Only  by  severely  limiting  imports  has  the  government  been  able 
to  prevent  a  serious  crisis  in  the  balance  of  payments  account.  In 
the  1980s,  the  Ministry  of  Planning,  in  consultation  with  the 
National  Bank  of  Angola  (Banco  Nacional  de  Angola — BNA),  the 
Ministry  of  Domestic  and  Foreign  Trade,  and  other  ministries  drew 
up  an  annual  foreign  trade  budget  as  part  of  the  annual  national 
plan.  This  plan  set  ceilings  for  categories  of  imports  in  each  sector 
of  the  economy,  and  import  quotas  were  then  allocated  to  individual 
companies.  For  each  foreign  order,  the  importing  company  was 
required  to  submit  invoices  and  apply  to  the  Ministry  of  Domestic 
and  Foreign  Trade  for  an  import  license.  Most  imports  were 
brought  in  by  state  foreign  trade  companies  and  new  regional 
import-export  companies.  However,  the  oil  companies  enjoyed  for- 
eign exchange  autonomy  and  imported  their  equipment  directly. 

Foreign  Trade 

Until  the  dramatic  fall  in  world  oil  prices  in  1985  and  1986,  the 
most  dominant  feature  of  the  external  economy  since  independence 
had  been  the  large  increase  in  oil  export  earnings  (see  table  6,  Ap- 
pendix A).  By  1985  crude  oil  exports  were  more  than  eight  times 
their  1973  level.  At  the  same  time,  however,  there  was  a  precipi- 
tous drop  in  other  exports,  most  notably  coffee  and  diamonds,  leav- 
ing Angola  almost  completely  dependent  on  oil  for  export  earnings. 
In  1988,  for  example,  oil  revenue  represented  nearly  90  percent 
of  total  export  earnings.  Nevertheless,  the  strong  performance  of 
the  oil  sector,  combined  with  stringent  import  controls,  resulted 
in  continuing  trade  surpluses,  which  by  1985  had  risen  to  US$740 
million. 

The  country's  principal  trading  partners,  except  for  the  Soviet 
Union,  continued  to  be  Western  nations.  The  United  States  has 
been  the  main  market  for  oil  and  thus  the  leading  importer  by  far 
of  Angolan  goods  since  at  least  1980.  Angola's  other  main  Western 


120 


The  Economy 


markets  were  Spain,  Britain,  Brazil,  and  the  Netherlands.  Spain, 
in  particular,  substantially  increased  its  trade  with  Angola  by  im- 
porting a  record  US$300  million  worth  of  goods  in  1985,  ten  times 
the  1980  level.  Angola's  principal  Western  sources  of  goods  were 
the  United  States,  France,  and  Portugal  (suppliers  of  oil  industry 
equipment),  but  an  increasing  amount  of  goods  came  from  Brazil. 
The  Soviet  Union,  because  of  the  large  amount  of  arms  it  sup- 
plied, emerged  as  the  major  source  of  imports.  Angola  has  also 
developed  close  trade  ties  with  Zimbabwe,  importing  maize  for  local 
consumption  and  blankets  to  use  as  items  of  barter  in  rural  mar- 
keting campaigns. 

Since  1979  Angola  has  imported  an  increasing  amount  of  food- 
stuffs from  Western  nations.  In  particular,  it  has  imported  wheat 
from  the  European  Economic  Community  (EEC)  and  Canada,  in- 
creasing from  83,000  tons  in  1980  to  205,000  tons  the  following 
year  and  dropping  to  an  average  of  160,000  tons  per  year  from 
1982  to  1986.  Likewise,  Angola  imported  meat  (100,000  tons  in 
1985)  and  milk  (400,000  tons  in  1985)  from  the  West. 

Because  of  the  sharp  drop  in  oil  prices  in  1986,  imports  were 
severely  limited  by  the  government.  The  government  suspended 
the  issue  of  import  licenses  except  when  importers  obtained  credit 
abroad  or  had  their  own  foreign  exchange.  Capital  goods  imports 
were  slashed,  as  were  consumer  goods,  spare  parts,  and  some  in- 
dustrial inputs.  Military  purchases  were  not  cut,  however,  nor  were 
imports  of  food,  pharmaceuticals,  goods  for  rural  marketing  cam- 
paigns, and  oil  industry  equipment. 

Foreign  Assistance 

Since  1980  foreign  assistance  grants  have  increased  because  of 
Angola's  agricultural  crisis  and  the  drop  in  oil  export  earnings. 
In  1984  gross  official  development  assistance  from  multilateral 
institutions  rose  to  US$33  million,  nearly  double  the  figure  for  1979 
(see  table  7,  Appendix  A).  Foreign  aid  was  likely  to  increase  in 
the  late  1980s  as  a  result  of  Angola's  accession  to  the  Lome  Con- 
vention (see  Glossary)  in  April  1985,  making  the  country  eligible 
for  funding  under  the  Lome  III  Agreement,  which  was  to  remain 
in  effect  until  1990. 

Because  of  the  mid-1980s  crisis  in  local  agricultural  production, 
food  imports  were  essential  to  feed  the  population,  and  Angola  had 
to  appeal  for  more  than  US$100  million  in  food  aid.  Nevertheless, 
such  aid  did  not  meet  food  requirements,  and  in  1986  the  country 
experienced  a  cereal  shortfall  of  more  than  100,000  tons.  In  addi- 
tion, Angola  appealed  for  US$21  million  in  nonfood  aid  in  1987, 
most  of  which  was  earmarked  for  relief  and  survival  items. 


121 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Most  direct  aid  was  provided  by  Western  organizations,  and 
Angola  was  trying  to  improve  its  relations  with  several  individual 
Western  countries  to  negotiate  for  further  assistance.  In  addition 
to  assistance  provided  by  the  United  Nations  (UN)  World  Food 
Programme  (WFP),  in  the  late  1980s  the  EEC  was  providing 
assistance  through  the  Lome  III  Agreement  as  well  as  through  the 
European  Investment  Bank.  Furthermore,  Angola  regularly 
received  aid  from  Sweden  for  various  small-scale  development 
projects,  and  France  provided  some  assistance  tied  to  the  purchase 
of  French  equipment.  Angola  has  improved  relations  with  the  Fed- 
eral Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  and  succeeded  in  reach- 
ing an  agreement  in  1987  with  that  country  for  3,600  tons  of  food 
aid.  Likewise,  Portugal  agreed  in  1987  to  provide  US$140  million 
in  credits  toward  the  recovery  of  Angolan  companies  hurt  by  the 
exodus  of  Portuguese  settlers  after  independence  and  to  cooperate 
in  some  joint  economic  ventures  with  the  Angolan  government. 

Angola  also  received  significant  assistance  from  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion and  East  European  nations.  In  1977  Angola  and  the  Soviet 
Union  established  an  intergovernmental  commission  for  techni- 
cal, scientific,  and  trade  cooperation.  Projects  addressed  by  this 
commission  have  included  the  design  of  a  hydroelectric  station,  rural 
electrification,  assistance  in  the  petroleum  and  fishing  industries, 
the  supply  of  industrial  equipment  and  physicians,  and  the  train- 
ing of  Angolan  technicians.  The  commission  agreement  was  to  run 
to  the  year  2000  and  included  plans  for  Soviet  technical  assistance 
in  the  petroleum  industry,  in  light  industry,  and  in  livestock  produc- 
tion. Angola  has  similar  technical  assistance  agreements  with  Hun- 
gary (for  the  pharmaceutical  and  automobile  industries),  with 
Yugoslavia  (for  the  petroleum  industry  and  for  agriculture),  and 
with  Bulgaria  (for  urban  planning).  Yugoslavia  also  built  a  large 
department  store  in  Luanda  to  market  Yugoslav-made  goods,  and 
trade  between  the  countries  has  increased.  And  in  October  1986, 
the  government  signed  a  cooperation  agreement  with  the  Council 
for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (Comecon  or  CMEA),  the  com- 
mon market  for  the  Soviet  Union,  its  East  European  allies,  and 
a  few  other  countries.  Under  Comecon  a  joint  commission  on 
cooperation  was  to  be  established  to  determine  future  forms  of 
cooperation  and  assistance  between  the  nations. 

Labor  Force 

Before  independence  the  economy  employed  a  labor  force  of  un- 
skilled Angolans  and  trained  Portuguese.  Since  independence  there 
has  been  littie  change  in  the  overall  composition  of  the  work  force, 
although  in  the  1980s  there  was  a  shortage  of  both  skilled  and 


122 


Semiskilled  laborers  work  in  a  plastics  factory. 

unskilled  workers.  Most  foreign  workers  fled  the  country  at  indepen- 
dence, but  some  have  returned  as  contract  workers,  called  cooper- 
ants  by  the  government.  Many  unskilled  workers  in  the  rural 
areas — primarily  plantation  laborers — migrated  to  the  cities  in  the 
wake  of  the  1975-76  fighting  and  the  exodus  of  the  plantation  own- 
ers and  managers.  In  the  1980s,  most  of  the  work  force,  even  in 
the  cities,  remained  illiterate  and  untrained  for  work  in  the  manufac- 
turing sector.  By  1980  the  labor  force  still  conformed  to  its  prein- 
dependence  distribution:  roughly  75  percent  of  all  workers  were 
engaged  in  agricultural  production,  10  percent  in  industry,  and 
15  percent  in  services. 

Calling  itself  a  socialist  workers'  state,  Angola  was  committed 
to  protecting  the  rights  of  its  workers  and  providing  them  with  a 
reasonable  wage.  In  the  1980s,  all  workers  therefore  belonged  to 
the  National  Union  of  Angolan  Workers  (Uniao  Nacional  dos  Tra- 
balhadores  Angolanos — UNTA)  and  received  a  minimum  wage. 
In  addition,  there  were  incentive  programs  at  some  factories,  and 
UNTA  promoted  a  "socialist  emulation"  program  in  which  work- 
ers won  bonuses  for  exceptional  productivity.  Nevertheless,  the 
government  has  become  dissatisfied  with  worker  productivity, 
especially  at  the  state-run  enterprises,  and  has  proposed  to  tie  all 
wages  to  performance. 

Foreign  workers  have  also  posed  a  problem  for  the  government 
because  of  their  high  salaries  and  because  they  contradict  the  party's 


123 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

ideological  commitment  to  the  use  of  Angolan  labor.  The  govern- 
ment, however,  was  forced  to  use  foreign  workers  in  many  crucial 
positions  after  the  departure  of  the  Portuguese.  These  positions  in- 
cluded those  held  by  physicians,  teachers,  engineers,  and  techni- 
cians. Most  came  from  Portugal,  Cuba,  Eastern  Europe,  Italy, 
France,  Spain,  Scandinavia,  and  Brazil.  By  1984  the  salaries  of 
these  foreign  workers  accounted  for  more  than  US$180  million, 
despite  government  attempts  to  force  a  reduction  in  this  work  force. 

In  pursuit  of  Angolanization  (that  is,  the  goal  of  having  an  upper- 
level  work  force  that  is  at  least  50  percent  Angolan),  in  1985  the 
government  began  initiating  some  training  programs.  In  Novem- 
ber of  that  year,  it  reached  agreement  with  the  German  Democratic 
Republic  (East  Germany)  on  a  training  program  for  Angolan  finan- 
cial analysts.  The  greatest  success  occurred  in  the  petroleum  sec- 
tor, however,  in  which  by  the  end  of  1985  more  than  50  percent 
of  the  workers  were  Angolans  with  some  technical  training.  This 
success  was  the  result  of  actions  taken  by  the  government  and  the 
National  Fuel  Company  of  Angola  (Sociedade  Nacional  de  Com- 
bustiveis  de  Angola — Sonangol),  which  employed  about  half  of  the 
workers  in  the  petroleum  industry,  to  substitute  Angolans  for  for- 
eign workers.  The  1982  Angolanization  law  (Decree  20/82)  estab- 
lished a  special  fund  for  training  activities.  Consequently,  intensive 
training  courses  and  seminars  in  the  petroleum  field  increased  from 
66  in  1982  to  151  in  1985.  Sonangol  participated  in  financing  var- 
ious training  efforts,  including  scholarship  grants.  Furthermore, 
Sonangol  closely  cooperated  with  Angolan  universities  to  introduce 
fields  of  study  related  to  the  petroleum  industry.  In  the  early  1980s, 
two  training  programs,  one  for  geologists  and  geophysicists  and 
the  other  for  petroleum  engineers,  were  instituted  in  the  schools 
of  science  and  engineering  at  the  University  of  Angola.  At  the  same 
time,  the  university's  school  of  engineering  began  an  equipment 
engineer  training  program.  The  training  of  middle-level  techni- 
cians was  undertaken  by  the  National  Petroleum  Institute,  at  Sumbe 
in  Cuanza  Sul  Province;  the  institute's  teachers  and  administra- 
tors were  cooperants  from  Italy  (see  fig.  1).  The  institute  trained 
between  fifty  and  sixty  production  specialists  per  year,  some  of 
whom  were  from  countries  belonging  to  the  Southern  Africa 
Development  and  Coordination  Conference  (SADCC). 

By  the  beginning  of  1986,  the  government  claimed  some  suc- 
cess in  its  Angolanization  program.  According  to  the  minister  of 
industry,  44  percent  of  senior-level  and  middle-level  management 
in  industry  were  Angolans.  Nevertheless,  after  the  drop  in  oil  prices 
in  1986,  the  government  sought  to  reduce  the  number  of  foreign 
workers  even  further  and  enacted  the  Statute  on  the  Cooperant 


124 


The  Economy 


Worker.  This  law  established  the  principle  that  cooperants  must  train 
Angolan  workers  in  their  jobs  and  pay  taxes  based  on  Angolan  labor 
regulations.  To  increase  the  ranks  of  Angolan  workers,  the  govern- 
ment even  encouraged  the  return  of  Angolan  exiles  who  had  for- 
merly opposed  the  MPLA.  These  included  former  members  of  the 
National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA),  the  Organization  of  Angolan  Com- 
munists (Organizacao  dos  Comunistas  de  Angola — OCA),  and 
UNITA  (see  Political  Opposition,  ch.  4).  The  response  to  this  en- 
couragement has  been  somewhat  meager,  however,  because  of  An- 
gola's ongoing  instability. 

Extractive  Industries 

The  petroleum  industry  dominated  the  extractive  industries  and, 
indeed,  the  entire  economy.  Since  the  dramatic  increase  in  oil  prices 
in  1973  and  1974,  petroleum  had  assumed  growing  importance. 
The  petroleum  industry  was  so  important,  in  fact,  that  the  MPLA 
for  the  most  part  allowed  foreign  oil  companies  to  import  as  much 
machinery  as  they  needed  and  made  only  modest  demands  for  the 
Angolanization  of  the  work  force.  Thus,  petroleum  has  remained 
the  most  successful  sector  in  the  economy,  despite  the  1986  price 
drop,  and  has  provided  the  government  with  most  of  its  revenues. 
In  contrast,  mining  of  diamonds  and  iron  ore,  commodities  that 
once  ranked  as  major  exports,  has  almost  ceased  because  of  dis- 
ruptions from  the  war.  Either  through  direct  attacks  on  diamond 
mines  or  through  the  disruption  of  iron  ore  transport,  in  the  1980s 
it  had  become  nearly  impossible  to  continue  operating  these  mineral 
industries.  Diamond  production  started  to  revive  in  1987,  but  only 
in  areas  patrolled  by  government  troops. 

Oil 

As  of  December  1984,  the  country's  total  proven  recoverable 
reserves  of  crude  oil  were  estimated  by  Sonangol  at  1 .6  billion  bar- 
rels. This  amount  was  considered  sufficient  to  maintain  produc- 
tion at  1986  levels  until  the  end  of  the  century.  Most  Angolan  oil 
is  light  and  has  a  low  sulfur  content.  As  the  only  oil  producer  in 
southern  Africa,  Angola  has  promoted  cooperation  in  energy  mat- 
ters on  behalf  of  SADCC. 

The  first  oil  exploration  concession  was  granted  by  the  Portuguese 
authorities  in  1910,  but  commercial  production  did  not  begin  un- 
til 1956  when  the  Petroleum  Company  of  Angola  (Companhia  de 
Petroleos  de  Angola — Petrangol)  started  operations  in  the  Cuan- 
za  River  Basin  (see  fig.  3).  The  company  later  discovered  oil  on- 
shore in  the  Congo  River  Basin  and  became  the  operator  for  most  of 


125 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


CRUDE  OIL  PRODUCTION 


400 


YEAR 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Interna- 
tional Energy  Statistical  Review,  November  27,  1984,  1;  and  September  27,  1988,  1. 

Figure  7.  Crude  Oil  Production,  1980-87 

the  onshore  fields  in  association  with  Texaco,  an  American  com- 
pany, and  Angol  (a  subsidiary  of  Portugal's  SACOR).  At  about 
the  same  time,  a  subsidiary  of  the  American-based  Gulf  Oil,  the 
Cabinda  Gulf  Oil  Company  (Cabgoc),  began  explorations  in  the 
Cabinda  area  in  1954  and  started  production  in  1968.  Production 
rose  from  2.5  million  tons  in  1969  to  8.2  million  tons  in  1973,  while 
exports  nearly  quadrupled  in  volume.  Because  of  the  added  benefit 
of  the  1973  oil  price  increase,  the  value  of  oil  exports  was  almost 
twelve  times  higher  in  1973  than  in  1969,  and  oil  finally  surpassed 
coffee  as  the  principal  export.  Crude  oil  production  in  the  early 
1980s  dipped  somewhat  as  a  result  of  decreased  investments.  By 
1983,  however,  production  had  rebounded  and  thereafter  continued 
to  set  new  output  records  (see  fig.  7). 

Postindependence  Exploration  and  Production 

Following  independence,  the  new  government  enacted  sweep- 
ing changes  in  the  oil  industry  and  claimed  sole  rights  over  all 
of  the  petroleum  deposits  in  the  country.  Under  the  Petroleum 
Law  No.  13/78,  enacted  on  August  26,  1978,  the  government 


126 


The  Economy 


established  Sonangol  as  the  exclusive  concessionaire  of  the  state's 
hydrocarbon  resources.  The  company  was  divided  into  several 
directorates,  including  one  for  the  development  of  hydrocarbons 
and  another  for  the  distribution  of  byproducts  on  the  domestic  mar- 
ket. The  hydrocarbons  directorate  was  responsible  for  reaching 
agreements  with  private  companies  for  the  development  of  local 
resources.  In  1978  it  divided  Angola's  offshore  area  (except  for 
Cabinda)  into  thirteen  blocks  of  approximately  4,000  square  kilo- 
meters each  for  development  by  private  companies  (see  fig.  8).  By 
1981  exploratory  drilling  had  been  conducted  on  Blocks  1  through 
4,  and  production  began  in  Blocks  2  and  3  in  1985. 

Sonangol  was  empowered  to  enter  into  two  types  of  agreements 
with  foreign  companies:  joint  ventures,  in  which  Sonangol  and  its 
private  partners  shared  in  investments  and  received  petroleum 
produced  in  the  same  proportion  (51  percent  Sonangol,  49  per- 
cent foreign);  and  production- sharing  agreements,  in  which  the  for- 
eign company  served  as  a  contractor  to  Sonangol,  made  the 
necessary  investments,  and  was  compensated  by  receiving  a  share 
of  the  oil  produced.  Sonangol  also  could  stipulate  a  price  cap  in 
the  production- sharing  agreements  that  would  allow  windfall  profits 
to  accrue  to  Sonangol  and  not  to  the  foreign  companies.  In  prac- 
tice, all  of  the  new  areas  opened  up  for  exploration  and  produc- 
tion since  independence  have  been  subject  to  production- sharing 
agreements,  while  the  areas  previously  under  production — primarily 
in  Cabinda — were  joint- venture  operations  between  Sonangol  and 
foreign  companies.  In  addition,  Sonangol  also  participated  in  joint- 
venture  companies  that  provided  services  and  supplies  to  the  oil 
exploration  and  production  companies. 

Except  for  Cabinda,  production  in  the  offshore  fields  started  after 
independence.  In  offshore  Block  1,  the  first  seismic  work  began 
in  May  1982,  and  the  first  drilling  commenced  in  December  of 
that  year.  Activity  in  Block  2  began  in  1980,  and  by  1985  two  fields 
were  producing  (Cuntala  and  Essungo)  a  total  of  11,700  bar- 
rels per  day  (bpd — see  Glossary).  In  addition,  oil  was  discovered 
by  the  end  of  1985  in  the  West  Sulele  formation  in  Block  2.  Son- 
angol had  started  construction  in  Block  2  of  the  Rwanda  opera- 
tional base  to  provide  support  for  operators  in  Blocks  1,2,  and 
3.  Block  3  also  started  exploration  activity  in  1980,  and  by  1986 
at  least  six  wells  there  were  considered  commercial.  A  major 
development  project  was  being  initiated  in  Block  3  for  the  Palanca 
and  Pacaca  fields  and  for  a  sea-loading  terminal.  The  other  blocks 
in  exploration  were  4,  5,  6,  7,  and  9;  Blocks  8,  10,  11,  and  12  had 
not  been  opened  by  the  government  as  of  the  end  of  1985  (see  ta- 
ble 8,  Appendix  A). 


127 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


A 


Atlantic 
Ocean 


CONGQ  .  ^Boundary  representation 

/    not  necessarily  authoritative 


Nam  i be 


-NAMIBIA 


International  boundary 

0 

National  capital 

ja 

Petroleum  refinery 

8 

Offshore  block 

Onshore  production  area 

Offshore  production  area 

Offshore  exploration  area 

Offshore  open  area 

0 

1  00         200  Kilometers 

0 

50       100       150  Miles 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  54. 

Figure  8.  Oil  Exploration  and  Production  Areas,  1986 

Oil  was  also  produced  in  onshore  fields  in  the  Cuanza  and  Con- 
go river  basins.  There  were  forty- six  wells  in  the  Cuanza  River 
Basin,  near  Luanda,  where  production  began  in  1959.  In  1986 
Sonangol  estimated  that  the  field  had  a  life  of  another  five  to  six 
years  at  then-current  levels  of  production.  Being  an  old  field,  it 
had  very  low  production  costs.  The  oil  fields  in  the  Congo  River 


128 


The  Economy 


Basin,  however,  were  far  more  productive,  yielding  nearly  eight 
times  the  amount  raised  in  the  Cuanza  River  Basin.  From  1981 
to  1985,  between  30,700  bpd  and  34,900  bpd  were  produced  in 
the  Congo  River  Basin,  but  an  average  of  only  about  4,200  bpd 
was  produced  in  the  Cuanza  River  Basin. 

In  addition  to  its  production  agreements,  Sonangol  has  actively 
invested  in  the  development  of  production  capabilities  and  in 
exploration  and  distribution  projects.  In  1979  the  company  com- 
piled the  available  data  on  the  sedimentary  basins  and  carried  out 
a  seismic  survey  program  on  the  continental  platform,  upon  which 
the  subsequent  division  of  the  continental  shelf  platform  was  based. 
Furthermore,  the  company  has  made  major  investments  in  expand- 
ing its  ability  to  distribute  petroleum  at  home  and  abroad  since 
it  assumed  direct  responsibility  in  1977  for  marketing  Angolan  oil 
(Cabgoc  marketed  Cabinda  oil,  which  accounted  for  almost  half 
of  Angola's  oil  production).  Some  of  Sonangol's  other  major 
investments  included  gas  injection  facilities  in  Cabinda;  develop- 
ment of  the  Takula,  Lumueno,  Quinfuquena,  Quinguila,  Essun- 
go,  and  Cuntala  fields  and  the  offshore  Cabinda  fields;  construction 
of  the  Kwanda  oil  field  service  base;  and  construction  of  the  Quin- 
fuquena oil  terminal. 

New  arrangements  have  also  been  made  for  the  future  develop- 
ment of  several  production  areas.  Financing  totaling  US$350  mil- 
lion has  been  secured  for  the  development  of  the  Takula  fields  in 
Cabinda,  owned  jointly  by  Sonangol  and  Cabgoc,  from  an  inter- 
national consortium  of  banks.  Cabgoc  has  also  signed  three  new 
joint- venture  contracts  on  oil  research  and  exploration  in  Cabin- 
da. Under  the  terms  of  these  contracts,  Cabgoc  was  to  be  respon- 
sible for  the  total  cost  of  the  research  operations  and  was  to  be 
reimbursed  by  Sonangol  only  if  commercially  viable  oil  was  dis- 
covered. 

As  a  result  of  the  many  joint-venture  and  production- sharing 
agreements  reached  by  the  government  in  the  late  1970s,  by  1985 
US$798  million  had  been  invested  in  exploration  and  US$1 .2  bil- 
lion in  development.  The  largest  investors  were  Cabgoc  and  Sonan- 
gol in  Cabinda  and  the  French  firm  Elf  Aquitaine  and  its  partners 
in  Block  3.  This  increased  investment  has  led  to  higher  produc- 
tion. For  example,  production  in  Cabinda  more  than  doubled  be- 
tween 1980  and  1985. 

Marketing 

Exports  of  crude  oil  have  outpaced  exports  of  refined  oil  be- 
cause refining  facilities  have  not  been  expanded  at  the  same  rate  as 
crude  oil  output.  In  the  late  1980s,  all  of  the  oil  produced  offshore 


129 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


(in  Cabinda  and  Block  3)  was  exported,  while  the  crude  oil  found 
onshore  was  refined  domestically. 

Petrangol's  output  was  about  32,000  bpd  in  1985,  sufficient  to 
meet  domestic  demand  for  most  products  except  butane  and  jet 
fuel,  while  a  large  surplus  of  fuel  oil  was  produced  for  export 
(585,900  tons  in  1985).  The  facilities  for  bottling  propane  and  bu- 
tane were  also  expanded  at  a  cost  of  US$7  million.  The  capacity 
of  the  Petrangol  oil  refinery  on  the  outskirts  of  Luanda  was  increased 
to  1.7  million  tons  a  year  in  1986.  In  1987  Sonangol  was  explor- 
ing the  possibility  of  having  some  of  its  crude  petroleum  refined 
in  Portugal. 

The  supply  of  petroleum  products  for  the  domestic  market  was 
controlled  by  Sonangol  and  increased  8  percent  between  1980  and 
1985.  Initially,  Sonangol  shared  the  market  with  Shell  and  Mobil, 
but  Sonangol  bought  out  the  Angolan  subsidiaries  of  these  com- 
panies in  1981  and  1983.  Subsequently,  Sonangol  also  purchased 
two  Portuguese  companies  that  bottled  gas,  gaining  a  monopoly 
over  the  distribution  of  refined  products.  Among  these  products, 
butane  gas  accounted  for  65  percent  of  the  total  gas  consumed  locally 
and  was  used  primarily  in  homes  in  urban  areas.  In  addition, 
Sonangol  distributed  gasoline,  gas  oil,  and  lubricating  oils.  Its 
greatest  distribution  problems  were  the  lack  of  storage  facilities 
throughout  the  country  and  problems  associated  with  the  domes- 
tic transportation  network. 

In  response  to  the  fall  in  oil  prices  in  1986,  the  Angolan  govern- 
ment began  considering  regional  cooperation  to  protect  the  interests 
of  oil  suppliers.  In  that  year,  Angola  was  invited  to  join  the 
Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC).  Although 
it  declared  its  willingness  to  act  in  concert  with  OPEC  members 
to  avert  the  growing  crisis  in  oil  prices,  Angola  joined  the  African 
Petroleum  Producers'  Association,  which  included  four  OPEC 
members  (Algeria,  Gabon,  Libya,  and  Nigeria)  and  three  non- 
OPEC  oil  producers  (Cameroon,  Congo,  and  Benin).  Together, 
these  eight  countries  produced  188  million  tons  of  oil  in  1986, 
equivalent  to  about  one-fifth  of  OPEC's  production  and  6.4  per- 
cent of  world  production. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  major  foreign  oil  companies  operating  in 
Angola  were  American.  Chevron,  which  had  taken  over  Gulf, 
owned  49  percent  of  the  shares  in  the  offshore  Cabinda  blocks,  An- 
gola's largest  production  area,  where  output  was  fairly  stable  in 
1986  and  1987  at  about  200,000  bpd.  In  1986  President  Ronald 
Reagan's  administration  pressured  American  oil  companies  and 
equipment  suppliers  to  withdraw  their  interest  in  the  Angolan 
oil  industry  to  protest  the  presence  of  Cuban  troops  in  Angola. 


130 


Oil  exploration  off  the  coast 
of  Cabinda 
Courtesy  United  Nations 
(J. P.  Laffont) 


Chevron  therefore  withdrew  20  percent  of  its  interests  from  Cab- 
goc  and  sold  its  shares  to  the  Italian  firm  Agip.  Conoco,  however, 
rebuffed  this  pressure  and  became  the  third  American  oil  compa- 
ny to  begin  operations  in  Angola  in  offshore  Block  5.  Texaco, 
another  major  operator  in  Angola,  operated  in  offshore  Block  2, 
near  Soyo,  where  it  held  a  40  percent  interest  in  a  production- 
sharing  consortium.  It  also  had  a  16  percent  interest  in  some  of 
the  onshore  fields  in  the  Congo  River  Basin. 

The  United  States  Congress  also  banned  new  Export-Import 
Bank  lending  and  credit  insurance  for  sales  to  the  Angolan  oil  in- 
dustry, putting  American  suppliers  at  a  major  disadvantage  in  this 
market.  British  suppliers  waiting  to  come  into  the  market  have  been 
delayed  because  of  the  reluctance  of  British  banks  to  offer  long- 
term  or  medium-term  credits  for  such  sales.  However,  France  has 
entered  the  market,  granting  exceptional  credit  facilities  for  oil- 
related  sales. 

Diamonds 

Diamond  mining  began  in  1912,  when  the  first  gems  were  dis- 
covered in  a  stream  in  the  Lunda  region  in  the  northeast.  In  1917 
Diamang  was  granted  the  concession  for  diamond  mining  and 
prospecting,  which  it  held  until  independence.  Control  over  the 
company  was  obtained  by  the  government  in  1977.  In  April  1979, 
a  general  law  on  mining  activities  (Law  5/79)  was  enacted  and  gave 


131 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

the  state  the  exclusive  right  to  prospect  for  and  exploit  minerals. 
Accordingly,  a  state  diamond-mining  enterprise,  the  National 
Diamond  Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Diamantes — Endiama), 
was  founded  in  1981  and  acquired  the  government's  77  percent 
share  in  Diamang.  UNIT  A,  which  selected  the  diamond  mining 
industry  as  a  principal  target,  soon  crippled  mining  efforts,  and 
by  the  beginning  of  1986  the  two  foreign  companies  involved  in 
servicing  and  operating  the  industry  pulled  out  of  Angola.  By 
mid- 1986  Diamang  was  formally  dissolved,  leaving  large  outstand- 
ing debts. 

Attacks  by  UNITA  on  mining  centers,  disruption  of  transport 
routes,  and  widespread  theft  and  smuggling  caused  diamond  sales 
to  fall  to  US$33  million  by  1985  and  to  an  estimated  US$15  mil- 
lion in  1986.  In  late  1986,  Roan  Selection  Trust  (RST)  Interna- 
tional, a  subsidiary  of  the  Luxembourg- registered  holding  company 
ITM  International,  began  mining  in  the  Cafunfo  area,  along  the 
Cuango  River,  the  site  of  Angola's  most  valuable  alluvial  diamond 
deposits  (see  fig.  9).  Mining  had  been  halted  there  for  more  than 
two  years  after  UNITA  attacked  the  mining  camp  in  February 
1984,  kidnapping  seventy-seven  expatriate  workers  and  severely 
damaging  the  mining  equipment.  After  the  subsequent  kidnap- 
ping of  a  British  expatriate  in  November  1986,  defense  forces  in 
the  area  were  strengthened,  allowing  the  resumption  of  mining  oper- 
ations. In  1987  production  there  averaged  60,000  carats,  and  about 
120,000  carats  were  produced  in  the  other  two  mining  areas, 
Andrada  and  Lucapa.  By  1987  diamond  production  had  risen  to 
750,000  carats,  compared  with  less  than  400,000  carats  produced 
in  1986.  The  1987  figure,  however,  was  still  not  much  more  than 
1985  production  and  only  a  little  over  half  of  1980  output  (see 
table  9,  Appendix  A). 

This  increase  in  production  has  benefited  from  the  rise  in  the 
price  per  carat  received  for  Angolan  diamonds.  The  resumption 
of  mining  in  the  area  along  the  Cuango  River  and  a  decline  in 
theft  of  stones  of  higher  value  in  the  Andrada  and  Lucapa  areas 
have  increased  the  value  of  output.  Furthermore,  Endiama,  which 
was  responsible  for  overseeing  the  industry  and  for  holding  monthly 
sales,  has  benefited  from  a  general  improvement  in  the  world  dia- 
mond market  as  well  as  dealers'  willingness  to  pay  higher  prices 
in  the  hope  of  securing  favored  treatment  in  the  future.  As  a  result, 
average  carat  value  established  by  the  monthly  sales  in  1987 
exceeded  US$110,  more  than  twice  as  much  as  in  1985  (US$45) 
and  at  its  highest  level  since  1981  (US$119). 

In  1987  Endiama  signed  a  two-year  mining  contract  with  the 
Portuguese  Enterprises  Corporation  (Sociedade  Portuguesa  de 


132 


The  Economy 


Empreendimentos — SPE),  a  Portuguese  company  that  has  retained 
a  large  number  of  Portuguese  technicians  previously  employed  by 
Diamang.  Former  Diamang  shareholders  founded  SPE  in  1979  after 
Diamang  was  nationalized.  The  precise  terms  of  the  contract  were 
not  made  public,  but  it  was  thought  that  the  company  would 
undertake  new  prospecting,  which  had  been  at  a  virtual  standstill 
since  independence.  Through  a  subsidiary,  the  SPE  also  was  to 
help  Endiama  with  diamond  valuation,  which  a  British  company 
had  been  carrying  out.  In  December  1987,  Angola  also  signed  an 
agreement  with  the  Soviet  Union  to  cooperate  in  mining  diamonds 
and  quartz.  Under  the  terms  of  the  agreement,  the  Soviet  Union 
was  to  participate  in  mining  enterprises  and  was  to  draw  up  a 
detailed  geological  map  of  Angola. 

In  1987  the  government  also  began  to  revise  the  1979  mining 
law  to  encourage  new  companies  to  invest  in  the  diamond-mining 
industry,  in  particular  to  resume  prospecting.  Among  the  compa- 
nies believed  to  be  considering  investing  in  1988  was  Britain's  Lon- 
rho  conglomerate,  which  had  taken  an  increasingly  active  interest 
in  Angola  in  the  late  1980s.  The  South  African  diamond-mining 
giant  DeBeers  was  also  interested  after  it  lost  its  exclusive  market- 
ing rights  for  Angolan  diamonds  at  the  end  of  1985  because  of 
government  suspicions  that  DeBeers  had  devalued  Angolan  dia- 
monds. DeBeers  has  expressed  interest  in  studying  the  kimberlite 
pipes  (deep,  subsurface  deposits),  which,  because  of  the  depletion 
of  the  alluvial  deposits,  were  thought  to  represent  the  future  of  the 
Angolan  diamond  industry. 

Iron  Ore 

Once  one  of  the  country's  major  exports,  iron  ore  was  no  longer 
mined  in  the  late  1980s  because  of  security  and  transportation 
problems.  From  the  mid-1950s  until  1975,  iron  ore  was  mined  in 
Malanje,  Bie,  Huambo,  and  Huila  provinces,  and  production 
reached  an  average  of  5.7  million  tons  per  year  between  1970  and 
1974.  Most  of  the  iron  ore  was  shipped  to  Japan,  West  Germany, 
and  Britain  and  earned  almost  US$50  million  a  year  in  export 
revenue.  After  independence,  the  government  established  a  state 
company,  the  National  Iron  Ore  Company  of  Angola  (Empresa 
Nacional  de  Ferro  de  Angola — Ferrangol),  for  the  exploration,  min- 
ing, processing,  and  marketing  of  iron  ore.  Ferrangol  contracted 
with  Austromineral,  an  Austrian  company,  to  repair  facilities  and 
organize  production  in  Cassinga.  Production  began  to  slow  in  1974 
as  a  result  of  technical  problems  at  the  Cassinga  mine  in  Hufla 
Province  and  stopped  completely  in  August  1975.  The  area  fell 
under  foreign  control  after  South  African  forces  invaded  in  1975. 


133 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


—  ■  ■  —  International  boundary 
®       National  capital 
D  Diamonds 
Fe  Iron 
V/A  Coffee 
P  Petroleum 

Fishing 
^  Textiles 

Electric  power 


Cement 
y  Livestock 
g    Wood  processing 
C  Cotton 

Iron/steel  processing 

0       100     200  Kilometers 
0  100  200  Miles 


Figure  9.  Economic  Activity,  1988 


134 


The  Economy 


Although  South  Africa  withdrew  its  troops  in  early  1976,  as  of  1988 
mining  had  not  resumed  in  the  area. 

By  1988  the  Cassinga  mines  had  a  production  capacity  of  ap- 
proximately 1 . 1  million  tons  per  year.  However,  the  railroad  to 
the  port  of  Namibe  (formerly  Mocamedes)  needed  extensive  repair, 
and  since  it  was  located  only  310  kilometers  north  of  the  Namibi- 
an  border,  security  against  South  African  attacks  could  not  be 
ensured.  Furthermore,  UNITA  was  active  in  the  area  and  posed 
a  threat  to  the  rail  line  if  it  were  repaired.  Even  if  these  problems 
could  be  resolved,  production  of  iron  ore  at  Cassinga  would  be  cosdy 
in  view  of  the  depressed  state  of  the  world  steel  market  in  the  late 
1980s. 

Other  Minerals 

In  addition  to  diamonds  and  iron  ore,  Angola  is  also  rich  in 
several  other  mineral  resources  that  had  not  been  fully  exploited 
by  the  late  1980s.  These  include  manganese,  copper,  gold,  phos- 
phates, granite,  marble,  uranium,  quartz,  lead,  zinc,  wolfram,  tin, 
fluorite,  sulfur,  feldspar,  kaolin,  mica,  asphalt,  gypsum,  and  talc. 
The  government  hoped  to  resume  mining  in  the  southwest  for  crys- 
talline quartz  and  ornamental  marble.  It  has  been  estimated  that 
5,000  cubic  meters  of  marble  could  be  extracted  annually  over  a 
period  of  twenty  years.  A  state-owned  company  mined  granite  and 
marble  in  Huila  and  Namibe  provinces  and  in  1983  produced  4,450 
cubic  meters  of  granite  and  500  cubic  meters  of  marble.  Since  then, 
the  company  has  ceased  production  to  re-equip  with  modern 
machinery.  Quartz  production,  however,  was  suspended  indefinite- 
ly because  of  the  military  situation  in  the  areas  close  to  the  extrac- 
tion sites  in  Cuanza  Sul  Province. 

The  government  established  a  company  in  1980  to  exploit  phos- 
phate deposits  located  in  the  northwest.  There  were  50  million  tons 
of  deposits  in  Zaire  Province  and  about  100  million  tons  in  Cabin- 
da.  Although  studies  of  the  deposits  in  both  locations  have  been 
made  by  Bulgarian  and  Yugoslav  companies,  as  of  1988  produc- 
tion had  not  started  at  either  site. 

Agriculture 

By  the  end  of  the  colonial  period,  a  variety  of  crops  and  livestock 
was  produced  in  Angola.  In  the  north,  cassava,  coffee,  and  cot- 
ton were  grown;  in  the  central  highlands,  maize  was  cultivated; 
and  in  the  south,  where  rainfall  is  lowest,  cattle  herding  was  preva- 
lent. In  addition,  there  were  large  plantations  run  by  Portuguese 
that  produced  palm  oil,  sugarcane,  bananas,  and  sisal.  These  crops 
were  grown  by  commercial  farmers,  primarily  Portuguese,  and  by 


135 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


peasant  farmers,  who  sold  some  of  their  surplus  to  local  Portuguese 
traders  in  exchange  for  supplies.  The  commercial  farmers  were 
dominant  in  marketing  these  crops,  however,  and  enjoyed  substan- 
tial support  from  the  colonial  government  in  the  form  of  technical 
assistance,  irrigation  facilities,  and  financial  credit.  They  produced 
the  great  majority  of  the  crops  that  were  marketed  in  the  cities  or 
exported. 

After  independence,  the  departure  of  Portuguese  farmers  and 
traders  in  the  rural  areas  undermined  agricultural  productivity. 
In  response,  the  government  set  up  state  farms  on  land  formerly 
owned  by  the  Portuguese  and  established  the  National  Company 
for  the  Marketing  and  Distribution  of  Agricultural  Products 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Comercializagao  e  Distribuicao  de  Produ- 
tos  Agricolas — Encodipa)  to  maintain  the  rural  trading  system. 
Neither  body,  however,  was  successful,  and  by  1984  the  govern- 
ment started  phasing  out  the  state  farms  and  turned  production 
over  to  individual  farmers.  In  December  1985,  the  government 
also  put  most  rural  trade  back  into  private  hands.  To  help  peasant 
farmers,  the  government  established  agricultural  development  sta- 
tions and  provided  bank  credits  for  small-scale  agricultural  projects. 
Several  hundred  state  farms  were  to  be  turned  over  to  associations 
of  tenant  farmers  as  an  embryonic  form  of  cooperative.  The 
association  was  to  buy  or  rent  tools  for  shared  use,  share  market- 
ing initiatives  to  strengthen  prices,  and  share  transport.  By  the  end 
of  1985,  the  Directorate  of  Farm  Marketing  controlled  4,638  farm 
cooperatives  and  6,534  farmers'  associations;  but  of  these,  only  93 
cooperatives  and  71  associations  were  operational. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  country  faced  serious  problems  in  resus- 
citating agricultural  production.  By  1988  the  departure  of  the  Por- 
tuguese, rural  depopulation,  and  the  physical  isolation  of  the 
farming  areas  had  almost  totally  halted  commercial  production  of 
such  cash  crops  as  coffee  and  sisal,  as  well  as  the  subsistence  produc- 
tion of  cereals.  Production  was  stagnating  because  of  marketing 
and  transport  difficulties;  shortages  of  seed,  fertilizer,  and  consumer 
goods  for  trade  with  peasant  farmers;  and  the  impact  of  the  war 
on  planting,  harvesting,  and  yields.  Land  mines  and  fear  of  attacks 
had  forced  peasants  to  reduce  the  areas  under  cultivation,  espe- 
cially fields  distant  from  villages,  and  to  abandon  hopes  of  har- 
vesting some  planted  areas.  Moreover,  the  internal  migration  of 
peasants  to  safer  areas  had  resulted  in  the  overcultivation  of  lands 
and  decreased  yields. 

Despite  these  obstacles,  there  were  some  successes.  The  relatively 
secure  Hufla  Province  maintained  a  fair  level  of  production,  and 
the  reorientation  of  government  policy  away  from  inefficient  state 


136 


The  Economy 


farms  and  toward  peasant  producers  promised  to  provide  services 
to  and  boost  production  by  peasant  farmers.  By  the  end  of  1987, 
there  were  twenty-five  development  stations  providing  services  to 
peasant  producers  in  ten  provinces,  and  four  more  were  being  set 
up. 

Coffee 

Nowhere  has  the  decline  in  agricultural  production  been  more 
dramatic  than  in  the  coffee  sector.  Formerly  Angola's  leading 
export,  by  1985  coffee  exports  had  dropped  to  8  percent  of  their 
1973  level  (see  table  10,  Appendix  A).  Under  colonial  rule,  about 
2,500  large  commercial  farms  and  250,000  peasants  were  involved 
in  growing  coffee.  During  the  1975-76  fighting,  the  owners, 
managers,  and  skilled  technicians,  as  well  as  most  of  the  migrant 
work  force,  abandoned  the  coffee  estates,  which  were  then  nation- 
alized. Suffering  from  a  lack  of  skilled  management  and  shortages 
of  available  labor  in  the  rural  areas,  these  coffee  farms  have  con- 
tinually posted  losses.  By  1985  the  thirty-four  state  coffee  compa- 
nies produced  only  8,890  tons  of  coffee  and  depended  on 
government  subsidies  to  stay  in  business.  The  government  mar- 
keted only  4,700  tons  from  peasant  producers  in  that  year. 

In  1983  the  government  adopted  an  emergency  program  to  revive 
the  coffee  industry.  Local  coffee  companies,  rather  than  the  National 
Coffee  Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Cafe — Encafe),  were  given 
the  responsibility  to  run  the  state  coffee  farms,  and,  to  encourage 
greater  efficiency,  the  area  under  cultivation  was  reduced  to  less 
than  one-fifth  of  the  area  abandoned  by  the  large  commercial  coffee 
growers  at  independence.  Aid  for  these  efforts  has  been  obtained 
from  the  French  Central  Board  for  Economic  Cooperation  (Caisse 
Centrale  de  Cooperation  Economique — CCCE)  and  two  UN 
organizations,  the  WFP  and  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organiza- 
tion (FAO).  The  WFP  was  furnished  with  US$14.3  million  on  a 
five-year  (1983-87)  plan  to  pay  coffee  workers  in  food  rather  than 
in  local  currency  to  discourage  worker  absenteeism,  one  of  the  in- 
dustry's most  serious  problems.  In  addition,  the  government,  as 
part  of  its  program  of  economic  liberalization,  was  in  the  process 
of  turning  over  the  marketing  of  coffee  to  local,  rather  than  na- 
tional, organizations. 

Despite  these  efforts,  however,  by  1985  the  state  coffee  farms 
had  only  about  50  percent  of  the  required  work  force  because  of 
the  general  drain  of  people  from  the  rural  areas  and  the  unattrac- 
tive wages  that  were  paid  in  nearly  worthless  kwanzas.  Moreover, 
the  industry  was  still  plagued  by  the  UNITA  insurgency,  whose 
attacks  had  inflicted  over  US$4  million  worth  of  damage  on  coffee 


137 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

plantations  by  1985.  Other  problems  encountered  on  the  coffee 
plantations  mirrored  the  general  deterioration  of  the  economic 
infrastructure.  High  charges  for  transportation  of  coffee  and 
machinery  and  lack  of  facilities  for  hulling  the  coffee  slowed  and 
made  more  expensive  the  entire  production  process.  Furthermore, 
some  plantation  managers  complained  that  their  workers  were  not 
productive,  not  only  because  of  absenteeism  but  also  because  of 
their  advanced  age. 

The  decline  in  coffee  exports  in  the  mid-1980s  resulted  largely 
from  the  depletion  of  stocks  that  had  earlier  cushioned  exports  as 
production  declined.  Exports  to  members  of  the  International  Coffee 
Organization  (ICO)  have  remained  fairly  stable  since  1983,  but 
exports  to  non-ICO  members,  of  which  East  Germany  has  been 
by  far  the  most  important  market  in  the  late  1980s,  have  declined. 
The  fall  in  sales  to  the  non-ICO  market  has  eroded  coffee  earn- 
ings because  these  sales  have  traditionally  been  at  substantially 
higher  prices  than  those  to  ICO  members.  Exacerbating  the  decline 
in  production  and  exports  has  been  the  depressed  world  market 
for  coffee.  From  February  1986  to  August  1987,  ICO  indicator 
prices  dropped  by  more  than  20  percent. 

Food  Crops  and  Livestock 

The  decline  in  marketed  food  crop  production  and  the  rapid 
growth  of  the  urban  population  have  caused  a  food  crisis  in  the 
cities.  By  the  mid-1980s,  urban  dwellers  depended  almost  entirely 
on  cereal  imports,  and  the  approximately  600,000  rural  displaced 
persons  were  completely  dependent  on  food  aid  from  foreign  donors. 
Local  production  of  cereals  met  only  half  the  national  requirement 
in  1986  and  totaled  only  about  300,000  tons — about  60  percent 
of  the  yearly  average  in  the  mid-1970s.  Decreased  production  was 
the  result  of  general  problems  associated  with  the  war,  including 
deteriorating  transportation  and  a  lack  of  market  incentives  for 
peasant  producers.  By  the  late  1980s,  malnutrition  was  widespread. 

Similarly,  livestock  production  has  declined.  Both  cattle  and  pigs 
are  raised,  but  production  fell  from  36,500  tons  slaughtered  in  1973 
to  only  5,000  tons  in  the  early  1980s.  This  tremendous  decrease 
was  the  result  of  a  combination  of  factors,  including  the  departure 
of  the  commercial  farmers,  increasing  disruption  from  the  war  (in 
this  case  from  South  African  forces  in  the  southern  part  of  the  coun- 
try), and  the  deterioration  of  facilities  and  services,  especially  vac- 
cinations, crucial  for  livestock  production.  During  their  occupation 
of  Cunene  Province  in  1975,  the  South  African  troops  allegedly 
destroyed  some  1,500  water  holes  for  cattle,  severely  damaging 
livestock  production  in  that  region. 


138 


A  laborer  holds  a  basket  of  freshly  picked  coffee  beans. 

Courtesy  United  Nations  (J.  P.  Laffont) 


139 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 
Timber 

Timber  production  also  declined  dramatically  after  indepen- 
dence. Production  of  logs  dropped  from  555,000  cubic  meters  in 
1973  to  below  40,000  cubic  meters  in  1981  and  1982.  Nonethe- 
less, the  government  was  interested  in  promoting  production  to 
supply  local  manufacturing.  Some  valued  woods,  such  as  mahoga- 
ny, grow  in  the  rain  forests  in  Cabinda,  where  there  are  also  eu- 
calyptus, pine,  and  cypress  plantations.  A  new  state  forestry 
company  was  established  in  1983  with  aid  from  Cuba  to  revive 
the  industry  in  Cabinda,  and  by  1985  log  production  had  risen 
to  113,000  cubic  meters.  In  1986  the  Panga-Panga  enterprise  of 
Cabinda,  which  manufactured  pressed  wood,  exported  123  mil- 
lion square  meters  of  sheets  to  Italy. 

Fishing 

Fishing  was  a  major  industry  before  independence.  In  the  early 
1970s,  there  were  about  700  fishing  boats,  and  the  annual  catch 
was  more  than  300,000  tons.  Including  the  catch  of  foreign  fish- 
ing fleets  in  Angolan  waters,  the  combined  annual  catch  was  esti- 
mated at  1  million  tons.  Following  independence  and  into  the  late 
1980s,  however,  the  local  fishing  industry  had  fallen  into  disarray, 
the  result  of  the  flight  of  local  skilled  labor  and  the  return  of  the 
fishing  boats  to  Portugal.  By  1986  only  70  of  the  143  fishing  boats 
in  Namibe,  the  port  that  normally  handled  two- thirds  of  the 
Angolan  catch,  were  operable.  Furthermore,  most  of  the  fish- 
processing  factories  were  in  need  of  repair.  Once  an  exporter  of 
fish  meal,  by  1986  Angola  had  insufficient  supplies  for  its  own 
market. 

Some  of  the  foreign  fishing  fleets  operating  in  Angolan  waters 
were  required  by  the  government  to  land  a  portion  of  their  catch 
at  Angolan  ports  to  increase  the  local  supply  of  fish.  Fishing  agree- 
ments of  this  kind  had  been  reached  with  the  Soviet  Union,  which 
operated  the  largest  number  of  boats  in  Angolan  waters,  and  with 
Spain,  Japan,  and  Italy.  Spain  also  agreed  to  help  rehabilitate  the 
Angolan  fishing  industry  in  exchange  for  fishing  rights.  In  other 
cases,  the  government  allowed  foreign  fleets  to  export  their  entire 
catch  in  exchange  for  license  fees. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  government  began  rehabilitating  the  fishing 
industry,  especially  in  Namibe  and  Benguela  provinces.  The  first 
priority  was  to  replace  and  repair  aging  equipment.  To  accom- 
plish this  goal,  the  government  was  receiving  a  significant  amount 
of  foreign  assistance.  In  1987  the  EEC  announced  plans  to  pro- 
vide funds  to  help  rebuild  the  Dack  Doy  shipyards  and  two  canning 


140 


The  Economy 


plants  in  Tombua.  Spain  sold  Angola  thirty-seven  steel-hull  boats 
for  US$70  million,  and  fourteen  modern  fishing  boats  were  on  order 
from  Italy. 

Industry 

Under  the  Portuguese,  the  manufacturing  sector  grew  rapidly 
because  of  the  substantial  increase  in  the  size  of  the  white  settler 
population,  the  creation  of  a  large  domestic  market  for  goods,  and 
the  strict  exchange  controls  imposed  in  1962  that  encouraged 
investment  in  local  industry.  The  manufacturing  sector  was  domi- 
nated by  light  industries  that  produced  consumer  goods,  especial- 
ly the  food-processing  industry,  which  accounted  for  46  percent 
of  the  value  of  manufactured  output  in  1973.  In  contrast,  heavy 
industries  accounted  for  only  22  percent  of  output.  When  the  set- 
tlers fled,  most  small  manufacturing  firms  were  left  without  their 
clerical  work  force,  their  managers,  and  even  their  owners;  in  1976 
only  284  out  of  692  manufacturing  businesses  were  operating  un- 
der their  old  management.  In  reaction  to  the  decline  in  the  manufac- 
turing sector,  in  March  1976  the  MPLA  government  enacted  the 
Law  on  State  Intervention  and  nationalized  all  of  the  abandoned 
businesses.  However,  by  1985  industrial  production  was  only  54 
percent  of  its  real  value  in  1973. 

In  the  years  immediately  following  independence,  the  govern- 
ment spent  large  sums  to  put  plants  back  into  operation,  but  its 
plans  were  overly  ambitious,  and  it  overestimated  the  state's 
capacity  to  keep  factories  supplied  with  necessary  materials  and 
inputs.  In  the  early  1980s,  investment  was  cut  drastically,  as  the 
government  sought  to  control  expenditures  and  the  foreign  exchange 
deficit.  Because  of  limited  funding,  projects  were  more  carefully 
selected,  and  there  was  clearer  recognition  of  the  need  for  simul- 
taneous restructuring  in  other  sectors,  particularly  those  supply- 
ing raw  materials  for  manufacture.  By  1986  approximately  180 
companies  were  operating  in  the  manufacturing  sector,  and  their 
output  was  equal  to  about  13  percent  of  GDP.  Of  that  amount, 
state-run  companies  accounted  for  56  percent. 

Among  the  most  acute  problems  for  industrial  rehabilitation  were 
shortages  of  raw  materials,  unreliable  supplies  of  water  and  elec- 
tricity, and  labor  instability.  The  decline  in  domestic  production 
of  many  raw  materials  has  been  especially  critical  in  the  decline 
in  local  manufacturing.  For  example,  by  1986  only  a  small  frac- 
tion of  the  8,000  tons  of  cotton  needed  annually  by  the  textile 
industry  was  supplied  locally,  while  during  the  early  1970s  Angola 
exported  raw  cotton.  The  deterioration  of  the  water  supply  sys- 
tem has  also  damaged  many  industries,  especially  breweries,  as 


141 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


have  cutoffs  in  electricity  supply.  Furthermore,  labor  problems, 
a  consequence  of  a  shortage  of  skilled  workers  and  disincentives 
to  work  for  wages  in  an  inflated  economy,  have  depleted  the  local 
work  force.  Foreign  exchange  constraints  have  also  prevented  many 
industries  from  importing  the  necessary  raw  materials. 

Electric  Power 

Angola  is  especially  well  endowed  with  potential  sources  for  the 
production  of  electricity,  both  hydroelectric  (estimated  in  1986  at 
7,710  megawatts  potential  capacity)  and  thermal  (using  locally 
produced  oil).  By  1986,  however,  a  total  of  only  367  megawatts 
of  generating  capacity  existed  at  the  country's  main  power  stations. 
Power  stations  on  four  rivers  traditionally  supplied  most  of  the  elec- 
tricity consumed  in  the  main  urban  areas:  the  Cambambe  station 
on  the  Cuanza  River  and  the  Mabubas  station  on  the  Dande  River 
provided  electricity  to  the  capital  and  the  north,  the  Biopio  and 
Lomaum  stations  on  the  Catumbela  River  supplied  cities  in  the 
central  provinces,  and  the  Matala  station  on  the  Cunene  River  was 
the  main  source  of  power  in  the  south.  The  Ruacana  station,  also 
on  the  Cunene  River  near  the  border  with  Namibia,  was  under 
South  African  control  during  much  of  the  1980s.  In  addition,  ther- 
mal stations  in  Luanda,  Namibe,  Cabinda,  Huambo,  Biopio,  Uige, 
and  Lubango  supplied  power.  However,  these  regional  power  sys- 
tems were  not  connected.  Furthermore,  there  were  separate  local 
grids  in  Cabinda  and  in  the  diamond-mining  area  of  Lunda  Norte 
Province. 

Repairs  were  needed  on  the  electrical  system  because  of  deteri- 
orating equipment  and  the  sabotage  of  stations  and  distribution 
lines.  The  central  system  has  been  hit  repeatedly  by  UNITA,  which 
in  the  1980s  put  the  Lomaum  station  and  a  substation  at  Alto 
Catumbela  out  of  commission.  Many  of  the  power  lines  in  the  cen- 
tral area  and  in  the  northwest  have  also  been  cut  by  UNITA.  There- 
fore, many  businesses  have  installed  their  own  generators  and 
produce  approximately  20  percent  of  the  total  electricity  generat- 
ed in  Angola.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  government  was  going  ahead 
with  plans  to  build  a  520-megawatt  hydroelectric  station  on  the 
Cuanza  River  at  Capanda  to  augment  the  northern  system.  The 
government  had  also  reached  an  agreement  with  Brazil  and  the 
Soviet  Union  for  financial  and  technical  assistance  in  building  the 
station  for  an  estimated  US$900  million. 

Food  Processing 

The  food-processing  industry  suffered  not  only  from  the  gener- 
al economic  constraints  in  Angola  but  also  from  government- 


142 


143 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

imposed  import  restrictions.  By  1988  the  industry  depended  almost 
entirely  on  imports  for  its  raw  materials.  By  1985  food  processing 
had  reached  only  37  percent  of  its  1973  level.  The  most  successful 
branches  of  the  industry  were  maize  processing  (84  percent  of  the 
1973  level),  wheat  milling  (57  percent),  and  brewing  (55  percent). 
Since  independence,  there  have  been  some  major  investments  in 
brewing  and  soft  drinks,  sugar  processing,  baking  and  flour  mill- 
ing, and  vegetable  oil  production.  The  government  controlled  the 
bread-making  industry  and  operated  eight  bakeries.  Considerable 
improvements  have  been  made  in  factory  equipment  to  boost 
production;  nevertheless,  production  came  to  a  standstill  twice  in 
1985  because  of  a  lack  of  wheat  flour. 

War  and  the  sudden  departure  of  Portuguese  technicians  in  1975 
adversely  affected  sugar  production.  The  main  problems  were  a 
decline  in  cane  production  and  a  deterioration  in  the  quality  of  cane. 
Formerly  grown  on  large  Portuguese-owned  plantations,  cane  was 
produced  in  the  1980s  by  state-run  organizations  assisted  by  Cuban 
technical  advisers.  After  the  Portuguese  abandoned  the  plantations, 
most  of  the  sugarcane  plants  were  not  maintained.  The  sucrose 
content  in  Angolan  sugarcane  dropped  from  a  pre- 1975  average 
of  9.5  percent  to  an  average  of  only  3.5  percent  in  1987,  making 
it  necessary  to  grow  nearly  three  times  as  much  cane  to  produce 
the  equivalent  amount  of  sugar.  Among  many  other  problems  that 
aggravated  sugar  production  were  the  shortage  of  water  for  irriga- 
tion, lack  of  equipment  and  fertilizers,  theft,  and  poor  drainage 
in  the  cane  fields.  Furthermore,  there  has  been  a  large  decline  in 
the  area  cultivated,  inappropriate  cane  varieties  have  been 
introduced,  and  machinery  in  the  sugar  mills  has  become  dilapi- 
dated. Although  some  sugar  was  exported  at  the  end  of  the  coloni- 
al period  (18,303  tons  in  1973),  an  average  of  about  55,000  tons 
a  year  was  imported  from  Cuba  between  1979  and  1986. 

Light  Industry 

By  1986  light  industry,  which  included  textiles,  clothing,  tobac- 
co, soaps,  matches,  and  plastic  and  wood  products,  had  almost  been 
restored  to  its  preindependence  level  of  production.  The  largest 
investments  in  light  industry  have  been  in  two  large  textile  projects: 
the  Africa  Textil  plant  in  the  city  of  Benguela  (US$15  million), 
completed  in  1979,  and  the  Textang-II  plant  in  the  city  of  Luanda 
(US$45  million),  completed  in  1983.  They  each  had  a  production 
capacity  of  more  than  10  million  square  meters  of  cloth  per  year 
but  have  produced  far  less  because  of  shortages  of  cotton.  Other 
notable  investments  have  been  in  wood  processing  (US$12  mil- 
lion), with  projects  in  Cabinda  and  Luanda. 


144 


145 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

The  state-owned  National  Textile  Company  (Empresa  Nacional 
de  Texteis — Entex)  has  also  suffered  from  a  shortage  of  cotton. 
Founded  in  1980,  Entex  had  factories  throughout  the  country  and 
the  capacity  to  produce  27  million  square  meters  of  cloth  per  year. 
By  1987,  however,  the  company  was  turning  out  only  12  million 
square  meters.  Likewise,  the  production  capacity  of  blankets  was 
nearly  1.7  million  per  year,  but  only  900,000  were  produced  in 
1986.  Adding  to  Entex' s  problems,  one  of  its  major  factories, 
Textang-I,  was  shut  down  in  1986  because  of  a  lack  of  treated  water 
and  damage  from  mud.  By  1987  no  stocks  of  raw  materials  or  spare 
parts  had  been  replaced. 

Similarly,  plastics  production  under  a  state-run  company  was 
only  about  half  of  installed  capacity.  Operating  factories  abandoned 
by  the  Portuguese  after  1976,  the  state  agency  suffered  from  a  lack 
of  materials  and  from  aging  equipment.  It  employed  foreign  tech- 
nical assistants  but  had  also  been  training  Angolan  workers  at  home 
and  overseas. 

Heavy  Industry 

By  1985  heavy  industry  was  producing  only  35  percent  of  its 
1973  output.  The  main  branches  of  this  sector  were  the  assembly 
of  vehicles;  production  of  steel  bars  and  tubes,  zinc  sheets,  and  other 
metal  products;  assembly  of  radio  and  television  sets;  and  manufac- 
ture of  tires,  batteries,  paper,  and  chemical  products.  There  have 
been  large  investments  to  rehabilitate  steel  production.  Neverthe- 
less, although  imports  of  steel  dropped  from  more  than  58,000  tons 
in  1980  to  35,000  tons  in  1986,  Angola  still  imported  most  of  its 
finished  steel  goods,  including  tubes,  sheets,  and  plates. 

In  1983  the  government  established  a  company  to  process  scrap 
metal.  The  Northern  Regional  Enterprise  for  the  Exploitation  of 
Scrap  Metal,  located  in  Luanda,  had  the  capacity  to  process  31 ,000 
tons  of  scrap  metal  and  produced  7,125  tons  of  processed  scrap 
metal  in  1985,  its  first  year  of  operation.  The  government  claimed 
that  the  efforts  of  this  enterprise  had  saved  US$1.4  million  that 
would  have  been  spent  on  importing  scrap  metal.  The  government 
planned  to  establish  another  company  in  Lobito,  with  the  finan- 
cial support  of  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  and  the  United  Nations  Industrial  Development  Organi- 
zation (UNIDO). 

The  government  also  controlled  the  automobile  assembly  industry 
through  a  company  founded  in  1978  after  a  Portuguese  firm  had 
been  nationalized.  The  company  consisted  of  a  factory  that  assem- 
bled light  vehicles;  a  plant,  possibly  at  Viana,  that  assembled  buses 
and  heavy  trucks;  and  a  factory  at  Cunene  that  built  the  chassis 


146 


The  Economy 


for  all  these  vehicles.  The  light  vehicle  factory  was  particularly  af- 
fected by  the  cutback  in  imports  in  1982,  and  its  output  fell  in 
1983-84  to  only  20  percent  of  capacity.  Likewise,  the  bus  and  truck 
plant  has  experienced  shutdowns  because  of  a  lack  of  parts.  In- 
puts for  the  automobiles  came  from  state-owned  companies  that 
produced  paint,  plastic  seats,  metal  tubing,  and  rubber  tires. 

Construction  Materials 

Despite  official  support  for  the  construction  materials  industry, 
by  1985  production  of  building  materials  still  fell  far  short  of 
government  hopes.  In  1988  the  government  was  rehabilitating  the 
Angolan  Cement  Company  (Empresa  de  Cimento  de  Angola — 
Cimangola),  which  accounted  for  90  percent  of  Angolan  produc- 
tion. Cimangola  was  founded  in  1954  and  was  declared  a  mixed 
enterprise  after  independence,  with  part-Danish  ownership.  In  1973 
Cimangola  produced  582,300  tons  of  cement,  but  in  1985  it 
produced  only  183,600  tons.  In  1988  the  government  was  plan- 
ning to  double  the  production  capacity  of  the  Cimangola  plant  on 
the  outskirts  of  Luanda  through  the  installation  of  another  kiln, 
bringing  production  capacity  up  to  750,000  tons. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 
Roads 

The  Portuguese  left  Angola  with  a  relatively  well-developed  road 
network  that  totaled  about  70,000  kilometers,  8,000  of  which  were 
paved.  Since  1975,  however,  many  bridges  have  been  blown  up, 
many  vehicles  have  been  destroyed,  and  many  roads  have  been 
subject  to  attack  by  UNITA  guerrillas,  necessitating  military  con- 
voys for  road  transportation.  In  the  late  1980s,  roads  and  railroads 
were  still  exposed  to  sabotage  and  ambush.  Rural-urban  trade  and 
supply  bottlenecks  limited  most  inland  industries,  and  transport 
and  communications  services  suffered  from  labor  shortages.  The 
highest  priority  has  been  given  to  repairing  the  bridges  linking  the 
provincial  capitals. 

Railroads 

In  the  1980s,  three  different  1 .067-meter  gauge  rail  systems  ran 
from  the  hinterland  to  major  ports  on  the  Adantic  Ocean  (see  fig. 
10).  The  longest  line  (1,394  kilometers)  was  the  Benguela  Rail- 
way. It  linked  the  port  of  Lobito  with  the  central  African  rail  sys- 
tem that  served  the  mining  regions  of  Shaba  (Zaire)  and  the 
Zambian  Copperbelt.  The  Benguela  Railway  had  a  rail  spur  to 
Cuima,  near  Huambo.  In  late  1988,  it  was  operating  only  between 
Lobito  and  Benguela.  In  the  south,  the  899-kilometer  Namibe 


147 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


149 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Railway  linked  the  port  of  Namibe  to  Menongue,  with  branches 
to  Chiange  and  to  the  Cassinga  iron  ore  deposits.  In  the  north,  the 
Luanda  Railway  ran  from  Luanda  to  Malanje,  with  rail  spurs  to 
Caxito  and  Dondo.  In  addition,  a  123-kilometer,  narrow-gauge  line 
that  had  run  from  Porto  Amboim  to  Gabela  was  closed  as  of  1987. 

All  three  major  systems  have  been  subject  to  guerrilla  attacks, 
and  service  on  the  Benguela  Railway  in  particular  has  been  severely 
affected.  By  May  1986,  an  estimated  US$69  million  worth  of 
damage  had  been  inflicted  on  the  line,  and  the  company  that  oper- 
ated it  had  accumulated  more  than  US$200  million  in  losses  by 
1986.  Observers  estimated  that  at  least  US$180  million  would  be 
needed  to  rehabilitate  service  on  the  line  and  that  repairs  would 
take  five  years.  Similarly,  traffic  on  the  Namibe  Railway  has 
declined  because  of  attacks  by  UNITA  and  because  of  the  closure 
of  the  Cassinga  iron  mines,  which  had  provided  the  line  with  most 
of  its  freight.  Finally,  by  1986  the  Luanda  Railway  was  carrying 
only  one-fifth  of  the  level  carried  in  1973,  a  consequence  of  guer- 
rilla attacks  and  the  deterioration  of  the  line. 

The  rehabilitation  of  the  "Lobito  corridor"  has  been  adopted 
as  an  official  SADCC  project.  The  project  included  the  purchase 
of  more  locomotives  and  wagons  and  the  upgrading  of  the  entire 
Benguela  Railway  from  Lobito  to  the  Zaire  border.  The  project 
also  included  the  development  of  the  Lobito  port  at  a  cost  of  about 
US$90  million. 

Ports 

The  decline  in  rail  traffic  has  led  to  a  decrease  in  activity  at  the 
country's  major  ports — Luanda,  Lobito,  and  Namibe.  In  1988 
Luanda's  port  was  in  disrepair.  It  had  berths  for  eleven  ships,  with 
adjacent  rail  sidings,  and  forty-one  cranes;  however,  only  two  of 
the  sidings  and  few  of  the  cranes  were  operational.  Dockside  clear- 
ance was  slowed  not  only  by  the  nonfunctioning  equipment  but 
also  by  the  estimated  labor  force  daily  absenteeism  rate  of  40  per- 
cent to  50  percent.  The  volume  of  freight  handled  by  Luanda  in 
1986  had  fallen  to  only  30  percent  of  its  1973  level. 

Lobito  was  the  main  terminal  on  the  Atlantic  Ocean  for  the  Ben- 
guela Railway,  and  in  1988  it  was  Angola's  most  efficient  port. 
The  port's  management  was  better  organized  and  more  compe- 
tent than  that  of  Luanda.  In  addition,  there  was  much  less  pilfer- 
age at  Lobito  than  at  Luanda.  Nonetheless,  by  1986  it  operated 
at  one-fifth  of  its  1973  level,  primarily  because  of  the  loss  of  Zam- 
bian  and  Zairian  traffic  on  the  Benguela  Railway. 

Namibe,  too,  was  hampered  by  inoperable  equipment  and  loss 
of  traffic.  The  volume  of  cargo  handled  there  dropped  sharply 


150 


The  Economy 


after  the  halt  of  iron  ore  exports,  leaving  the  ore  terminal  idle. 

In  addition  to  minor  general  cargo  ports  at  Ambriz,  Benguela, 
Porto  Amboim,  Sumbe,  and  Tombua,  there  were  major  petroleum- 
loading  facilities  at  the  Malongo  terminal  in  Cabinda  Province  and 
at  the  Soyo-Quinfuquena  terminal  at  Soyo.  In  the  late  1980s,  some 
of  the  minor  ports  were  taking  on  greater  importance  as  road  trans- 
portation became  increasingly  disrupted  by  UNITA  ambushes. 

To  help  rectify  some  of  these  transportation  problems,  the  govern- 
ment had  contracted  with  West  German  and  Danish  companies 
to  improve  port  operations  and  to  establish  repair  and  storage 
facilities.  The  government  was  also  involved  in  training  pilots, 
sailors,  and  mechanics  and  also  sent  students  to  Portugal,  Cuba, 
and  the  Soviet  Union  to  study  merchant  marine  subjects. 

Air  Transport 

In  contrast  to  other  transport  methods,  air  transport  has  grown, 
partly  in  response  to  the  difficulties  of  land  transport.  The  state- 
run  national  airline,  Angola  Airlines  (Linhas  Aereas  de  Angola — 
TAAG;  formerly  known  as  Transportes  Aereos  de  Angola),  has 
been  highly  profitable  and  in  1984  posted  pretax  profits  of  US$12.7 
million.  The  airline  benefited  from  high  passenger  and  cargo  load 
on  its  flights,  the  low  price  of  jet  fuel  in  Angola,  and  the  low  wages 
paid  to  employees.  In  1988  TAAG  was  planning  to  refurbish  its 
fleet  of  Boeing  737s  and  707s.  Because  of  United  States  opposi- 
tion to  the  sale  of  American  aircraft  to  Angola,  TAAG  was  expected 
to  purchase  its  new  aircraft  from  Airbus  Industrie  of  France. 

Domestic  service  linked  Luanda  with  Benguela,  Cabinda,  Hu- 
ambo,  Lubango,  Malanje,  Negage,  and  Soyo.  Because  of  unrealisti- 
cally  low  fees,  demand  for  domestic  flights  was  heavy.  Boarding 
a  flight,  even  with  a  confirmed  reservation,  was  often  problematic, 
and  flight  schedules  were  undependable.  Although  it  operated  only 
domestic  flights  before  independence,  TAAG  has  since  established 
an  extensive  international  route  network  based  at  the  country's 
major  airport  at  Luanda.  TAAG  offered  service  from  Luanda  to 
the  African  countries  of  Zaire,  Zambia,  Mozambique,  Cape  Verde, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  and  Congo.  The  company's  international 
routes  served  Havana,  Lisbon,  Moscow,  Paris,  and  Rome. 

Telecommunications 

Telecommunications  in  Angola  have  also  improved  since 
independence.  The  number  of  telephone  subscribers  has  grown 
from  24,500  in  1974  to  52,000  in  1986.  Luanda  was  estimated  to 
have  two- thirds  of  all  telephones.  Two  state  bodies  were  responsi- 
ble for  telecommunications:  the  National  Telecommunications 


151 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Telecomunicagoes — Enatel)  for 
domestic  service,  and  the  Public  Telecommunications  Company 
(Empresa  Publica  de  Telecomunicacoes — Eptel)  for  international 
service.  Enatel  included  twenty  automatic  and  thirty-six  manual 
telephone  exchanges  and  three  telex  centers.  Eight  of  the  eighteen 
provincial  capitals  had  automatic  local  and  interurban  services; 
interurban  links  were  provided  by  microwave  and  troposcatter  sys- 
tems. International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization 
(Intelsat)  links  were  provided  via  an  earth  station  at  Cacuaco.  In 
December  1986,  Angola  resumed  contacts  with  Intersputnik,  the 
Soviet-sponsored  international  space  telecommunications  organi- 
zation, and  planned  to  incorporate  the  station  at  Cacuaco  into  the 
Intersputnik  system.  To  ensure  continuous  international  commu- 
nications, in  1986  the  government  announced  plans  to  install  a 
second  earth  station  at  Benguela. 

Balance  of  Payments,  Finances,  and  Foreign  Debt 
Balance  of  Trade  and  Payments 

Despite  generally  large  trade  surpluses,  the  national  current 
account  has  been  in  deficit  since  statistics  were  first  published  in 
1978.  Trade  surpluses  have  been  outweighed  by  large  deficits  on 
"invisibles" — primarily  interest  and  profits,  transport  costs,  and 
technical  assistance  payments.  The  largest  part  of  the  outflow  for 
interest  and  profits  was  accounted  for  by  the  payments  of  state- 
run  petroleum  companies  abroad  for  amortization  of  their  loans 
(see  table  11,  Appendix  A). 

By  1988  the  medium-term  and  long-term  capital  account  had 
been  positive  for  many  years  because  of  large  inflows  from  loans, 
most  of  which  were  granted  by  the  Soviet  Union  on  concessional 
terms.  The  centralized  planning  system  strictly  controlled  exter- 
nal borrowing,  and  each  year  the  Ministry  of  Planning  set  a  ceil- 
ing on  borrowing,  following  consultations  with  the  National  Bank 
of  Angola  (Banco  Nacional  de  Angola — BNA). 

Most  of  Angola's  debt  has  been  contracted  on  concessional  terms. 
The  effective  rate  of  interest  on  medium-term  and  long-term  debt 
was  only  4.9  percent  in  1985,  and  the  average  loan  maturity  was 
about  seven  years.  Out  of  a  total  of  US$3.25  billion  in  disbursed 
and  undisbursed  debt,  US$2.06  billion  was  owed  to  the  Soviet 
Union  for  military  purchases.  This  amount  carried  very  attractive 
terms:  an  annual  interest  rate  of  3  percent  and  repayment  over 
ten  years,  including  a  three-year  grace  period.  In  contrast,  only 
11.5  percent  of  loans  from  creditors  outside  Comecon  were  granted 
on  a  concessional  basis. 


152 


153 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


The  government  has  taken  steps  to  reverse  the  growth  in  imports 
of  services,  proposing  new  programs  to  train  Angolans  to  provide 
key  technical  assistance.  At  the  Second  Party  Congress  in  Decem- 
ber 1985,  the  government  proposed  several  steps  to  give  priority 
to  national  companies  when  awarding  building  contracts;  to  cut 
less  essential  services,  such  as  transport  expenditures  and  interna- 
tional telephone  and  telex  usage;  and  provisionally  to  suspend  pri- 
vate transfers  abroad.  In  particular,  in  March  and  June  1986  the 
government  placed  severe  restrictions  on  salary  transfers  abroad 
by  foreign  resident  workers  and  foreign  aid  workers. 

Finances 

Banking  was  a  monopoly  of  the  state-run  BNA,  which  controlled 
currency,  loans,  and  foreign  debts  for  the  private  and  state  sec- 
tors. Reflecting  the  general  liberalization  of  state  economic  poli- 
cies adopted  in  1986,  the  BNA  has  provided  credit  for  foreign 
investors  and  has  tried  to  encourage  foreign  banks  to  establish  oper- 
ations inside  Angola.  The  BNA  handled  all  government  financial 
transactions  and  played  an  important  role  in  setting  fiscal  policy, 
especially  regarding  permissible  foreign  loans  and  the  establish- 
ment of  annual  ceilings  on  imports.  The  bank  has  been  notably 
unsuccessful,  however,  in  halting  the  decline  of  the  kwanza,  which 
in  late  1988  traded  on  the  parallel  market  for  up  to  2, 100  per  United 
States  dollar — barely  one- seventieth  of  its  theoretical  value.  In  fact, 
because  the  local  economy  was  based  more  on  barter  than  on  mone- 
tary exchange,  the  BNA's  primary  impact  has  been  in  the  area 
of  foreign  loans,  which  have  become  increasingly  important  to  the 
economy. 

Foreign  Debt 

Angola's  total  disbursed  external  debt,  much  of  which  was  owed 
to  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  for  arms  purchases,  totaled  about 
US$4  billion  in  mid- 1988.  There  was  only  a  0.3  percent  rise  in 
medium-term  and  long-term  debt  in  1986,  but  the  buildup  of  arrears 
after  the  crash  in  oil  prices  resulted  in  a  145  percent  increase  in 
short-term  debt.  Arrears  accounted  for  US$378  million,  includ- 
ing US$224  million  owed  to  Western  countries.  In  1986  the  Soviet 
Union  (Angola's  largest  creditor),  Brazil  (the  second  largest),  and 
Portugal  agreed  to  reschedule  debt  payments. 

By  the  end  of  1986,  some  debt  payments  were  running  seven 
to  eight  months  late,  and  some  Western  export  credit  agencies 
denied  Angola  most  medium-term  and  long-term  credits.  The 
depreciation  of  the  United  States  dollar,  to  which  the  Angolan 
kwanza  was  tied,  has  added  to  the  balance  of  payments  pressure. 


154 


The  Economy 


This  situation  existed  because  Angola's  oil  sales  were  denominat- 
ed in  United  States  dollars,  while  many  of  its  imports  were  priced 
in  relatively  stronger  European  currencies.  By  1987  Angola's  ac- 
cumulated arrears  (US$378  million)  and  its  debt-service  obliga- 
tions (US$442  million  of  principal  and  US$196  million  of  interest) 
equaled  nearly  half  of  its  exports  of  goods  and  services. 

The  government  in  1987  attempted  to  put  together  a  financial 
arrangement  to  repay  its  external  debts  over  a  fifteen-year  period. 
The  minister  of  finance  proposed  raising  US$1  billion  on  the 
international  capital  market  through  the  issue  of  fifteen-year, 
floating- rate  notes  to  pay  off  its  arrears  to  Western  creditors,  to 
prepay  principal  due  on  nonpetroleum-related  debts,  and  to  pro- 
vide approximately  US$125  million  in  revenue.  The  Paris  Club 
(see  Glossary),  however,  turned  down  the  proposal  because  of  its 
complexity,  uncertainty  over  its  success,  and  the  cost  implications 
for  the  creditor  countries.  To  provide  an  alternative,  the  Europe- 
ans advised  Angola  that  they  would  consider  debt  rescheduling  if 
the  government  would  seek  membership  in  the  IMF.  Subsequent- 
ly, President  dos  Santos  announced  in  August  1987  that  his  govern- 
ment intended  to  apply  for  membership  in  the  IMF  and  the  World 
Bank. 


Information  on  Angola  continues  to  be  difficult  to  obtain.  For 
many  years,  government  policies  and  the  ongoing  insurgency  dis- 
couraged visits  by  international  organizations,  journalists,  and  scho- 
lars. By  the  late  1980s,  however,  more  information  was  becoming 
available.  The  most  comprehensive  source  on  the  economy  is  Tony 
Hodges 's  Angola  to  the  1990s.  Specific  material  on  economic  back- 
ground can  be  gleaned  from  Malyn  Newitt's  Portugal  in  Africa  and 
Gerald  J.  Bender's  Angola  under  the  Portuguese.  Publications  of  mul- 
tilateral organizations,  such  as  the  UN  and  the  World  Bank,  are 
helpful  for  data  on  various  aspects  of  the  economy.  Useful  period- 
icals include  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  quarterly  Country 
Report,  Jeune  Afrique,  West  Africa,  Jornal  de  Angola,  Africa  Economic 
Digest,  Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneans,  Afrique- 
Asie,  and  Africa  Hoje.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


155 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Angolans  march  at  a  political  rally. 


AFTER  THIRTEEN  YEARS  of  guerrilla  warfare,  Angola  final- 
ly escaped  from  Portuguese  colonial  rule  in  1975,  but  with  few  of 
the  resources  needed  to  govern  an  independent  nation.  When  an 
effort  to  form  a  coalition  government  comprising  three  liberation 
movements  failed,  a  civil  war  ensued.  The  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola — MPLA)  emerged  from  the  civil  war  to  proclaim  a  Marxist- 
Leninist  one-party  state.  The  strongest  of  the  disenfranchised  move- 
ments, the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola 
(Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA), 
continued  to  battle  for  another  thirteen  years,  shifting  the  focus 
of  its  opposition  from  the  colonial  power  to  the  MPLA  govern- 
ment. In  late  1988,  the  social  and  economic  disorder  resulting  from 
a  quarter-century  of  violence  had  a  pervasive  effect  on  both  in- 
dividual lives  and  national  politics. 

Angola's  1975  Constitution,  revised  in  1976  and  1980,  ratifies 
the  socialist  revolution  but  also  guarantees  some  rights  of  private 
ownership.  The  ruling  party,  renamed  the  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola-Workers'  Party  (Movimento  Popular  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho — MPLA-PT)  in  1977, 
claimed  the  power  of  the  state.  Although  formally  subordinate  to 
the  party,  the  government  consolidated  substantial  power  in  its 
executive  branch.  The  president  was  head  of  the  MPLA-PT,  the 
government,  the  military,  and  most  important  bodies  within  the 
party  and  the  government.  In  his  first  nine  years  in  office  (1979-88), 
President  Jose  Eduardo  dos  Santos  further  strengthened  the 
presidency,  broadening  the  influence  of  a  small  circle  of  advisers 
and  resisting  pressure  to  concentrate  more  power  within  the 
MPLA-PT.  His  primary  goal  was  economic  development  rather 
than  ideological  rigor,  but  at  the  same  time  dos  Santos  considered 
the  MPLA-PT  the  best  vehicle  for  building  a  unified,  prosperous 
nation. 

Among  the  first  actions  taken  by  the  MPLA-PT  was  its  con- 
version into  a  vanguard  party  to  lead  in  the  transformation  to 
socialism.  Throughout  the  1980s,  the  MPLA-PT  faced  the  daunting 
task  of  mobilizing  the  nation's  peasants,  most  of  whom  were  con- 
cerned with  basic  survival,  subsistence  farming,  and  avoiding  the 
destruction  of  the  ongoing  civil  war.  Only  a  small  minority  of 
Angolans  were  party  members,  but  even  this  group  was  torn  by 
internal  disputes.  Factional  divisions  were  drawn  primarily  along 


159 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

racial  and  ideological  lines,  but  under  dos  Santos  influence  within 
the  MPLA-PT  gradually  shifted  from  mestizo  (see  Glossary)  to  black 
African  leadership  and  from  party  ideologues  to  relative  political 
moderates. 

Mass  organizations  were  affiliated  with  the  party  in  accordance 
with  Marxist-Leninist  dogma.  In  the  face  of  continued  insurgent 
warfare  and  deteriorating  living  standards,  however,  many  social 
leaders  chafed  at  party  discipline  and  bureaucratic  controls.  Dos 
Santos  worked  to  build  party  loyalty  and  to  respond  to  these  ten- 
sions, primarily  by  attempting  to  improve  the  material  rewards  of 
Marxist-Leninist  state  building.  His  greatest  obstacle,  however, 
was  the  destabilizing  effect  of  UNITA  and  its  South  African  spon- 
sors; Angola's  role  as  a  victim  of  South  Africa's  destructive  regional 
policies  was  central  to  its  international  image  during  the  1980s. 

In  December  1988,  Angola,  South  Africa,  and  Cuba  reached 
a  long-sought  accord  that  promised  to  improve  Luanda's  relations 
with  Pretoria.  The  primary  goals  of  the  United  States-brokered 
talks  were  to  end  South  Africa's  illegal  occupation  of  Namibia  and 
remove  Cuba's  massive  military  presence  from  Angola.  Vital  eco- 
nomic assistance  from  the  United  States  was  a  corollary  benefit 
of  the  peace  process,  conditioned  on  Cuba's  withdrawal  and  the 
MPLA-PT 's  rapprochement  with  UNITA.  Despite  doubts  about 
the  intentions  of  all  three  parties  to  the  accord,  international  hopes 
for  peace  in  southwestern  Africa  were  high. 

Background 

Political  units  in  southwestern  Africa  evolved  into  complex  struc- 
tures long  before  the  arrival  of  the  first  Portuguese  traveler, 
Diogo  Cao,  in  1483.  The  Bantu- speaking  and  Khoisan- speaking 
hunters  the  Portuguese  encountered  were  descendants  of  those  who 
had  peopled  most  of  the  region  for  centuries.  Pastoral  and  agricul- 
tural villages  and  kingdoms  had  also  arisen  in  the  northern  and 
central  plateaus.  One  of  the  largest  of  these,  the  Kongo  Kingdom, 
provided  the  earliest  resistance  to  Portuguese  domination  (see  Kon- 
go Kingdom,  ch.  1).  The  Bakongo  (people  of  Kongo)  and  their 
southern  neighbors,  the  Mbundu,  used  the  advantage  of  their  large 
population  and  centralized  organization  to  exploit  their  weaker 
neighbors  for  the  European  slave  trade. 

To  facilitate  nineteenth-century  policies  emphasizing  the  extrac- 
tion of  mineral  and  agricultural  resources,  colonial  officials  reor- 
ganized villages  and  designed  transportation  routes  to  expedite 
marketing  these  resources.  Colonial  policy  also  encouraged  inter- 
racial marriage  but  discouraged  education  among  Africans,  and 
the  resulting  racially  and  culturally  stratified  population  included 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


people  of  mixed  ancestry  {mestigos),  educated  Angolans  {assimi- 
lados — see  Glossary)  who  identified  with  Portuguese  cultural  values, 
and  the  majority  of  the  African  population  that  remained  unedu- 
cated and  unassimilated  (indigenas — see  Glossary).  Opportunities 
for  economic  advancement  were  apportioned  according  to  racial 
stereotypes,  and  even  in  the  1960s  schools  were  admitting  bare- 
ly more  than  2  percent  of  the  school-age  African  population  each 
year. 

Portugal  resisted  demands  for  political  independence  long  after 
other  European  colonial  powers  had  relinquished  direct  control  of 
their  African  possessions.  After  unsuccessfully  seeking  support  from 
the  United  Nations  (UN)  in  1959,  educated  Luandans  organized 
a  number  of  resistance  groups  based  on  ethnic  and  regional  loyal- 
ties. By  the  mid-1970s,  four  independence  movements  vied  with 
one  another  for  leadership  of  the  emerging  nation  (see  African 
Associations,  ch.  1). 

The  MPLA,  established  by  mestigos  and  educated  workers  in 
Luanda,  drew  its  support  from  urban  areas  and  the  Mbundu  popu- 
lation that  surrounded  the  capital  city.  The  Union  of  Peoples  of 
Northern  Angola  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  do  Norte  de  Angola — 
UPNA)  was  founded  to  defend  Bakongo  interests.  The  UPNA  soon 
dropped  its  northern  emphasis  and  became  the  Union  of  Angolan 
Peoples  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  de  Angola — UPA)  in  an  attempt 
to  broaden  its  ethnic  constituency,  although  it  rebuffed  consolida- 
tion attempts  by  other  associations.  The  UPA,  in  turn,  formed  the 
National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA)  in  1962,  when  it  merged  with  other 
northern  dissident  groups. 

A  variety  of  interpretations  of  Marxist  philosophy  emerged  dur- 
ing the  1950s  and  1960s,  a  period  when  Western  nations  refused 
to  pressure  Portugal  (a  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization — NATO)  to  upgrade  political  life  in  its  colonies.  The 
Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Portugues — 
PCP)  helped  organize  African  students  in  Lisbon  and  encouraged 
them  to  press  for  independence.  A  campaign  of  arrests  and  forced 
exile  crushed  most  Angolan  nationalist  leadership,  but  in  Portu- 
gal underground  antifascist  groups  were  gaining  strength,  and 
Angolan  liberation  movements  flourished.  The  MPLA  established 
its  headquarters  in  Leopoldville,  Belgian  Congo  (present-day  Kin- 
shasa, Zaire),  and  in  1962,  after  a  period  of  exile  and  imprison- 
ment, Agostinho  Neto  became  head  of  the  MPLA. 

Neto,  a  physician,  poet,  and  philosopher,  strengthened  the 
MPLA's  left-wing  reputation  with  his  rhetorical  blend  of  socialist 
ideology  and  humanist  values.  He  also  led  the  group  in  protests 


161 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

against  enforced  cotton  cultivation,  discriminatory  labor  policies, 
and  colonial  rule  in  general.  MPLA  and  UPA  leaders  agreed  to 
cooperate,  but  long-standing  animosities  led  members  of  these  two 
groups  to  sabotage  each  other's  efforts.  Within  the  MPLA,  leader- 
ship factions  opposed  each  other  on  ideological  grounds  and  policy 
issues,  but  with  guidance  from  the  Soviet  Union  they  resolved  most 
of  their  disputes  by  concentrating  power  in  their  high  command. 
Soviet  military  assistance  also  increased  in  response  to  the  grow- 
ing commitment  to  building  a  socialist  state. 

In  April  1974,  the  Portuguese  army  overthrew  the  regime  in  Lis- 
bon, and  its  successor  began  dismanding  Portugal's  colonial  empire. 
In  November  1974,  Lisbon  agreed  to  grant  independence. 
However,  after  centuries  of  colonial  neglect,  Angola's  African  popu- 
lation was  poorly  prepared  for  self-government:  there  were  few  edu- 
cated or  trained  leaders  and  almost  none  with  national  experience. 
Angola's  liberation  armies  contested  control  of  the  new  nation,  and 
the  coalition  established  by  the  Alvor  Agreement  in  January  1975 
quickly  disintegrated  (see  Coalition,  the  Transitional  Government, 
and  Civil  War,  ch.  1). 

Events  in  Angola  in  1975  were  catastrophic.  Major  factors  that 
contributed  to  the  violence  that  dogged  Angola's  political  develop- 
ment for  over  a  decade  were  the  incursions  into  northern  Angola 
by  the  United  States-backed  and  Zairian-backed  FNLA;  an  influx 
of  Cuban  advisers  and,  later,  troops  providing  the  MPLA  with 
training  and  combat  support;  South  African  incursions  in  the  south; 
UNITA  attacks  in  the  east  and  south,  some  with  direct  troop  sup- 
port from  Pretoria;  and  dramatic  increases  in  Soviet  materiel  and 
other  assistance  to  the  MPLA.  Accounts  of  the  sequence  of  these 
critical  events  differed  over  the  next  decade  and  a  half,  but  most 
observers  agreed  that  by  the  end  of  1975  Angola  was  effectively 
embroiled  in  a  civil  war  and  that  growing  Soviet,  Cuban,  South 
African,  and  United  States  involvement  in  that  war  made  peace 
difficult  to  achieve. 

International  recognition  came  slowly  to  the  MPLA,  which  con- 
trolled only  the  northern  third  of  the  nation  by  December  1975. 
A  small  number  of  former  Portuguese  states  and  Soviet  allies  recog- 
nized the  regime,  and  Nigeria  led  the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU)  in  granting  recognition.  The  FNLA  and  UNITA  attempted 
unsuccessfully  to  establish  a  rival  government  in  the  Angolan  town 
of  Huambo,  but  no  one  outside  Angola  recognized  their  regime. 
By  the  end  of  1976,  Angola  was  a  member  of  the  UN  and  was  recog- 
nized by  most  other  African  states,  but  its  domestic  legitimacy 
remained  in  question. 


162 


i 


A  view  of  Lobito,  one  of  Angola's  largest  cities 
Courtesy  Richard  J.  Hough 

MPLA  leader  Neto  had  avoided  ideological  labels  during  the  strug- 
gle for  independence,  although  the  MPLA  never  concealed  the  Marx- 
ist bias  of  some  of  its  members.  Neto  viewed  Marxist-Leninist 
orthodoxy  as  a  means  of  unifying  and  organizing  Angola's  diverse 
society  and  of  establishing  agricultural  growth  as  the  basis  for  eco- 
nomic development.  He  also  hoped  to  avoid  disenfranchising  urban 
workers  or  encouraging  the  growth  of  a  rural  bourgeoisie,  while  main- 
taining crucial  military  support  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  Cuba. 

One  of  the  MPLA's  many  slogans,  "people's  power"  (poder  popu- 
lar), had  won  broad  support  for  the  group  before  independence, 
especially  in  Luanda,  where  neighborhood  self-help  groups  were 
formed  to  defend  residents  of  poor  and  working-class  neighbor- 
hoods against  armed  banditry.  This  movement  was  quickly  cur- 
tailed by  the  police,  but  people's  power  remained  a  popular  symbol 
of  the  demand  for  political  participation.  After  independence, 
despite  constitutional  guarantees  of  people's  power,  the  slogan 
became  a  symbol  of  unrealized  expectations.  President  Neto,  despite 
his  democratic  ideals,  quickly  developed  an  autocratic  governing 
style.  He  introduced  austerity  measures  and  productivity  campaigns 
and  countered  the  resulting  popular  discontent  with  an  array  of 
security  and  intelligence  operations. 

Industrial  workers,  who  were  among  the  first  to  organize  for  peo- 
ple's power,  found  their  newly  formed  unions  absorbed  into  the 


163 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

MP  LA- controlled  National  Union  of  Angolan  Workers  (Uniao 
Nacional  dos  Trabalhadores  Angolanos — UNTA),  and  the  party 
began  to  absorb  other  popular  organizations  into  the  party  struc- 
ture. Students,  laborers,  and  peasant  farmers  agitated  against  what 
they  perceived  as  a  ra^'f°"clominated  political  elite,  and  this  resent- 
ment, even  within  the  ranks  of  the  MPLA  itself,  culminated  in  an 
abortive  coup  attempt  led  by  the  former  minister  of  interior,  Nito 
Alves,  in  May  1977. 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  1977  Nitista  coup  attempt,  the  MPLA 
redefined  the  rules  for  party  membership.  After  the  First  Party  Con- 
gress in  December  1977  affirmed  the  Central  Committee's  deci- 
sion to  proclaim  its  allegiance  to  Marxist-Leninist  ideals,  the  MPLA 
officially  became  a  "workers'  party"  and  added  "-PT"  (for  "Par- 
tido  de  Trabalho")  to  its  acronym.  In  1978  its  leaders  began  a  purge 
of  party  cadres,  announcing  a  "rectification  campaign"  to  correct 
policies  that  had  allowed  the  Nitista  factions  and  other  "demagogic" 
tendencies  to  develop.  The  MPLA-PT  reduced  its  numbers  from 
more  than  100,000  to  about  31,000,  dropping  members  the  party 
perceived  as  lacking  dedication  to  the  socialist  revolution.  Most 
of  those  purged  were  farmers  or  educated  mestigos,  especially  those 
whose  attitudes  were  considered  "petit  bourgeois."  Urban  work- 
ers, in  contrast  to  rural  peasants,  were  admitted  to  the  MPLA- 
PT  in  fairly  large  numbers. 

By  the  end  of  the  1970s,  the  ruling  party  was  smaller,  more  uni- 
fied, and  more  powerful,  but  it  had  lost  standing  in  rural  areas, 
and  its  strongest  support  still  came  from  those  it  was  attempting 
to  purge — educated  mestigos  and  assimilados.  Progress  was  hampered 
by  losses  in  membership,  trade,  and  resources  resulting  from 
emigration  and  nearly  two  decades  of  warfare.  The  MPLA-PT 
attempted  to  impose  austerity  measures  to  cope  with  these  losses, 
but  in  the  bitter  atmosphere  engendered  by  the  purges  of  the  late 
1970s,  these  policies  further  damaged  MPLA-PT  legitimacy.  Pur- 
suing the  socialist  revolution  was  not  particularly  important  in  non- 
Mbundu  rural  areas,  in  part  because  of  the  persistent  impression 
that  mestigos  dominated  the  governing  elite.  National  politicians 
claimed  economic  privilege  and  allowed  corruption  to  flourish  in 
state  institutions,  adding  to  the  challenges  faced  by  dos  Santos,  who 
became  MPLA-PT  leader  in  1979. 

Structure  of  Government 
The  Constitution 

Adopted  in  November  1975,  independent  Angola's  first  and  only 
Constitution  dedicates  the  new  republic  to  eliminating  the  vestiges 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


of  Portuguese  colonialism.  The  Constitution  provides  numerous 
guarantees  of  individual  freedom  and  prohibits  discrimination  based 
on  color,  race,  ethnic  identity,  sex,  place  of  birth,  religion,  level 
of  education,  and  economic  or  social  status.  The  Constitution  also 
promises  freedom  of  expression  and  assembly. 

Constitutional  revisions  in  1976  and  1980  more  clearly  estab- 
lish the  national  goal  of  a  revolutionary  socialist,  one-party  state. 
As  revised,  the  Constitution  vests  sovereignty  in  the  Angolan  peo- 
ple, guaranteed  through  the  representation  of  the  party,  and 
promises  to  implement  "people's  power."  It  also  emphasizes  the 
preeminence  of  the  party  as  policy-making  body  and  makes  the 
government  subordinate  to  it.  Government  officials  are  responsi- 
ble for  implementing  party  policy.  Economic  development  is  found- 
ed on  socialist  models  of  cooperative  ownership. 

Other  constitutional  guarantees  include  health  care,  access  to 
education,  and  state  assistance  in  childhood,  motherhood,  disability, 
and  old  age.  In  return  for  these  sweeping  guarantees,  each  individu- 
al is  responsible  for  participating  in  the  nation's  defense,  voting 
in  official  elections,  serving  in  public  office  if  appointed  or  elect- 
ed, working  (which  is  considered  both  a  right  and  a  duty),  and 
generally  aiding  in  the  socialist  transformation. 

Despite  its  strong  socialist  tone,  the  Constitution  guarantees  the 
protection  of  private  property  and  private  business  activity  within 
limits  set  by  the  state.  National  economic  goals  are  to  develop 
agriculture  and  industry,  establish  just  social  relations  in  all  sec- 
tors of  production,  foster  the  growth  of  the  public  sector  and  cooper- 
atives, and  implement  a  system  of  graduated  direct  taxation.  Social 
goals  include  combating  illiteracy,  promoting  the  development  of 
education  and  a  national  culture,  and  enforcing  strict  separation 
of  church  and  state,  with  official  respect  for  all  religions. 

The  Constitution  also  outlines  Angola's  defense  policy.  It 
explicitly  prohibits  foreign  military  bases  on  Angolan  soil  or  affili- 
ation with  any  foreign  military  organization.  It  institutionalizes  the 
People's  Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Forcas 
Armadas  Populares  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FAPLA)  as  the 
nation's  army  and  assigns  it  responsibility  for  defense  and  national 
reconstruction.  Military  conscription  applies  to  both  men  and 
women  over  the  age  of  eighteen  (see  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5). 

Executive  Branch 

The  President 

Executive  authority  is  vested  in  the  president,  his  appoint- 
ed ministers,  and  the  Defense  and  Security  Council  (see  fig.  11). 


165 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


166 


Government  and  Politics 


The  president  is  selected  as  head  of  the  MPLA-PT  by  the  Politi- 
cal Bureau.  His  authority  derives  first  from  his  status  as  head  of 
the  MPLA-PT  and  then  from  his  preeminence  in  government. 
President  dos  Santos,  like  his  predecessor,  had  wide-ranging  pow- 
ers as  the  leading  figure  in  politics  and  the  military.  He  was  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  and  chairman  of  the  Council 
of  Ministers.  He  was  also  empowered  to  appoint  and  dismiss  a  wide 
variety  of  national  and  provincial  officials,  including  military  officers 
and  provincial  commissioners.  The  president  could  also  designate 
an  acting  president  from  among  the  members  of  the  MPLA-PT 
Political  Bureau,  but  if  he  died  or  were  disabled,  his  successor  would 
be  chosen  by  the  Central  Committee. 

Council  of  Ministers 

In  late  1988,  the  Council  of  Ministers  comprised  twenty-one 
ministers  and  ministers  of  state.  The  seventeen  ministerial  portfo- 
lios included  agriculture,  construction,  defense,  domestic  and  for- 
eign trade,  education,  finance,  fisheries,  foreign  relations,  health, 
industry,  interior,  justice,  labor  and  social  security,  petroleum  and 
energy,  planning,  state  security,  and  transport  and  communica- 
tions. Ministers  were  empowered  to  prepare  the  national  budget 
and  to  make  laws  by  decree,  under  authority  designated  by  the 
national  legislature,  the  People's  Assembly,  but  most  of  the  min- 
isters' time  was  spent  administering  policy  set  by  the  MPLA- 
PT. 

In  February  1986,  dos  Santos  appointed  four  ministers  of  state 
(who  came  to  be  known  as  "superministers")  and  assigned  them 
responsibility  for  coordinating  the  activities  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers.  Their  portfolios  were  for  the  productive  sphere;  eco- 
nomic and  social  spheres;  inspection  and  control;  and  town  plan- 
ning, housing,  and  water.  Twelve  ministries  were  placed  under 
superministry  oversight;  the  ministers  of  defense,  foreign  relations, 
interior,  justice,  and  state  security  continued  to  report  directly  to 
the  president.  This  change  was  part  of  an  effort  to  coordinate  policy, 
reduce  overlapping  responsibilities,  eliminate  unnecessary  bureau- 
cratic procedures,  and  bolster  the  government's  reputation  for  ef- 
ficiency in  general.  Most  ministers  and  three  of  the  four  ministers 
of  state  were  also  high  officials  in  the  MPLA-PT,  and  their  policy- 
making influence  was  exercised  through  the  party  rather  than 
through  the  government. 

Defense  and  Security  Council 

In  May  1986,  the  president  appointed  eight  respected  advisers 
to  the  Defense  and  Security  Council,  including  the  ministers  of 


167 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

defense,  interior,  and  state  security;  the  ministers  of  state  for  the 
economic  and  social  spheres,  inspection  and  control,  and  the 
productive  sphere;  the  FAPLA  chief  of  the  general  staff;  and  the 
MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  secretary  for  ideology,  informa- 
tion, and  culture.  The  president  chaired  the  council  and  gave  it 
a  broad  mandate,  including  oversight  and  administration  in  mili- 
tary, economic,  and  diplomatic  affairs.  He  strengthened  this 
authority  during  the  council's  first  five  years  by  treating  the  coun- 
cil as  an  inner  circle  of  close  advisers.  By  1988  the  Defense  and 
Security  Council  and  the  Political  Bureau,  both  chaired  by  the  presi- 
dent, were  the  most  powerful  decision-making  bodies  within  the 
government  and  party,  respectively. 

Legislative  Branch 

The  principle  of  people's  power  was  enshrined  in  the  223-member 
People's  Assembly,  which  replaced  the  Council  of  the  Revolution 
as  the  nation's  legislature  in  1980.  The  primary  purpose  of  the  Peo- 
ple's Assembly  was  to  implement  some  degree  of  participatory 
democracy  within  the  revolutionary  state  and  to  do  so  outside  party 
confines.  People's  Assembly  delegates  did  not  have  to  be  party 
members,  and  many  were  not.  The  planned  electoral  process  was 
the  election  of  203  delegates  to  three-year  terms  by  an  electoral 
college.  The  electoral  college,  in  turn,  would  be  elected  by  univer- 
sal suffrage.  The  remaining  twenty  delegates  were  to  be  elected 
by  the  Central  Committee  of  the  MPLA-PT.  During  the  1980s, 
implementation  of  this  plan  was  obstructed  by  security  problems 
and  bureaucratic  snarls.  In  1980  the  Central  Committee  elected 
all  People's  Assembly  members.  In  1983  the  government's  lack 
of  control  over  many  rural  areas,  combined  with  a  dearth  of  accurate 
census  data,  prompted  dos  Santos  to  postpone  the  elections.  The 
1986  elections,  actually  held  in  1987,  consisted  of  mass  meetings 
at  which  the  names  of  nominees  were  presented  on  a  list  prepared 
by  the  existing  People's  Assembly.  A  few  names  were  challenged 
and  removed,  but  these  lengthy  public  discussions  did  not  consti- 
tute the  democratic  process  required  by  the  Constitution. 

The  People's  Assembly  met  every  six  months  to  approve  the 
national  budget  and  development  plan,  enact  legislation,  and 
delegate  responsibilities  to  its  subcommittees.  It  also  elected  the 
twenty-five-member  Permanent  Commission  to  perform  assembly 
functions  between  sessions.  The  president  headed  the  Permanent 
Commission,  which  was  dominated  by  members  of  the  MPLA- 
PT  Political  Bureau.  The  subordination  of  the  People's  Assembly 
to  the  MPLA-PT  was  ensured  by  including  high-level  party  offi- 
cials among  the  former's  appointed  members  and  by  frequent 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


reminders  of  the  preeminence  of  the  party.  The  government's 
intention  was  to  create  people's  assemblies  at  all  levels  of  local 
administration  in  order  to  establish  a  government  presence  in 
remote  areas  and  promote  party- government  contacts.  The  planned 
assemblies  were  an  important  symbol  of  people's  power,  although 
they  were  also  intended  to  be  controlled  by  the  party  elite. 

Judicial  System 

The  Ministry  of  Justice  oversaw  the  nation's  court  system,  which 
comprised  the  Supreme  Court,  the  Court  of  Appeals,  people's 
revolutionary  courts,  and  a  system  of  people's  courts.  High-level 
judges  were  appointed  by  the  minister  of  justice.  The  Supreme 
Court  and  the  Court  of  Appeals  heard  cases  involving  national  offi- 
cials and  appeals  from  lower  courts.  People's  revolutionary  courts 
heard  accusations  related  to  national  security,  mercenary  activity, 
or  war  crimes.  They  presided  over  both  military  and  civilian  cases, 
with  senior  military  officers  serving  in  a  judicial  capacity  in  mili- 
tary cases  (see  Conditions  of  Service,  Ranks,  and  Military  Justice, 
ch.  5).  Appeals  were  heard  by  appellate  courts  in  each  provincial 
capital. 

People's  courts  were  established  in  the  late  1970s  by  the  National 
Court  Administration  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice  as  part  of  a  na- 
tionwide reorganization  along  Marxist-Leninist  lines.  The  people's 
court  system  comprised  criminal,  police,  and  labor  tribunals  in  each 
provincial  capital  and  in  a  few  other  towns.  The  MPLA-PT  Po- 
litical Bureau  appointed  three  judges — one  professional  and  two 
lay  magistrates — to  preside  over  each  people's  courtroom  and  as- 
signed them  equal  power  and  legal  standing.  Although  the  profes- 
sional judges  had  substantial  legal  training,  lay  judges  were 
appointed  on  a  rotating  basis  from  among  a  group  of  citizens  who 
had  some  formal  education  and  several  weeks'  introductory  legal 
training.  Some  were  respected  leaders  of  local  ethnic  groups.  No 
juries  were  empaneled  in  either  civil  or  criminal  cases,  but  judges 
sometimes  sought  the  opinion  of  local  residents  in  weighing  de- 
cisions. 

Local  Administration 

As  of  late  1988,  Angola  was  divided  into  eighteen  provinces 
(provincias)  and  161  districts  (municipios)  (see  fig.  1).  Districts  were 
further  subdivided  into  quarters  or  communes  (comunas),  villages 
(povoagoes),  and  neighborhoods  (bairros).  Administration  at  each  le- 
vel was  the  responsibility  of  a  commissioner,  who  was  appointed 
by  the  president  at  the  provincial,  district,  and  commune  levels 
and  elected  at  the  village  and  neighborhood  levels.  The  eighteen 


169 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

provincial  commissioners  were  ex-officio  members  of  the  execu- 
tive branch  of  the  national  government.  The  supreme  organ  of  state 
power  was  the  national  People's  Assembly.  Provincial  people's 
assemblies  comprised  between  fifty-five  and  eighty-five  delegates, 
charged  with  implementing  MPLA-PT  directives.  People's  assem- 
blies were  also  envisioned,  but  not  yet  operational  in  late  1988, 
at  each  subnational  level  of  administration. 

In  1983  the  president  created  a  system  of  regional  military  coun- 
cils to  oversee  a  range  of  local  concerns  with  security  implications. 
High-ranking  military  officers,  reporting  directly  to  the  president, 
headed  these  councils.  Their  authority  superseded  that  of  other 
provincial  administrators  and  allowed  them  to  impose  a  state  of 
martial  law  within  areas  threatened  by  insurgency.  The  bound- 
aries of  military  regions  and  the  provinces  did  not  coincide  exactly. 
Until  1988  ten  regional  military  councils  were  in  operation.  In  early 
1988,  however,  the  Ministry  of  Defense,  citing  this  structure  as 
inadequate,  announced  the  formation  of  four  fronts  (see  Constitu- 
tional and  Political  Context,  ch.  5). 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola- 
Workers'  Party 

Background 

During  the  1960s,  the  MPLA  established  its  headquarters  at  Kin- 
shasa, Zaire,  and  then  at  Lusaka,  Zambia,  and  Brazzaville,  Con- 
go. The  MPLA's  scattered  bases  and  diverse  constituent  groups 
contributed  to  disunity  and  disorganization,  problems  that  were 
exacerbated  by  personal  and  ideological  differences  among  party 
leaders.  The  first  serious  split  occurred  in  1973,  when  Daniel 
Chipenda  led  a  rebellion,  sometimes  termed  the  Eastern  Revolt, 
in  protest  against  the  party's  ra^V°~dominated  leadership  and 
Soviet  interference  in  Angolan  affairs.  Chipenda  and  his  followers 
were  expelled  from  the  MPLA,  and  many  joined  the  northern- 
based  FNLA  in  1975.  Then  in  1974,  about  seventy  left-wing  MPLA 
supporters  based  in  Brazzaville  broke  with  Agostinho  Neto.  This 
opposition  movement  became  known  as  the  Active  Revolt.  Shortly 
after  independence,  a  third  split  occurred  within  the  party,  cul- 
minating in  the  1977  coup  attempt  by  Nito  Alves.  Later  in  1977, 
the  MPLA  transformed  itself  into  a  Marxist-Leninist  vanguard 
party  and  launched  a  lengthy  rectification  campaign  to  unify 
its  membership,  impose  party  discipline,  and  streamline  decision- 
making processes. 

In  1980  Angola  was  governed  by  a  new  head  of  state  under 
a  newly  revised  Constitution.  The  nation's  first  legislature,  the 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


People's  Assembly,  served  as  a  symbol  of  people's  power,  but  state 
organs  were  clearly  subordinate  to  those  of  the  party.  Within  the 
MPLA-PT,  channels  for  political  participation  were  being  nar- 
rowed. Both  government  and  party  leaders  established  a  hierar- 
chy of  organizations  through  which  they  hoped  to  mobilize  rural 
populations  and  broaden  political  support.  At  the  same  time, 
MPLA-PT  leaders  launched  programs  to  impose  party  discipline 
on  the  party's  cadres  and  indoctrinate  all  segments  of  society  in 
their  proper  role  in  political  development. 

Overall  goals  were  relatively  easy  to  agree  upon,  but  poverty 
and  insecurity  exacerbated  disagreements  over  specific  strategies 
for  attaining  these  objectives.  By  the  mid-1980s,  the  party  had  three 
major  goals — incorporating  the  population  into  the  political  process, 
imposing  party  discipline  on  its  cadres,  and  reconciling  the  diverse 
factions  that  arose  to  dispute  these  efforts.  Some  MPLA-PT  offi- 
cials sought  to  control  political  participation  by  regulating  party 
membership  and  strengthening  discipline,  while  others  believed  the 
MPLA-PT  had  wasted  valuable  resources  in  the  self-perpetuating 
cycle  of  government  repression  and  popular  dissent.  President  dos 
Santos  sought  to  resolve  disputes  that  did  not  seem  to  threaten  his 
office.  However,  much  of  the  MPLA-PT' s  political  agenda,  al- 
ready impeded  by  civil  war  and  regional  instability,  was  further 
obstructed  by  these  intraparty  disputes. 

Structure 

The  Political  Bureau  reported  in  1988  that  the  MPLA-PT  had 
more  than  45,000  members.  Its  social  composition,  an  important 
aspect  of  its  image  as  a  popular  vanguard  party,  consisted  of 
approximately  18  percent  industrial  workers,  18  percent  peasants, 
4  percent  agricultural  wage  earners,  and  60  percent  described 
by  the  Political  Bureau  as  "other  classes  and  social  strata  interest- 
ed in  building  socialism."  However,  the  fact  remained  that  many 
party  members  were  still  government  employees,  members  of  the 
petite  bourgeoisie  the  MPLA  had  denounced  so  loudly  in  the 
1970s. 

The  central  decision-making  bodies  of  the  MPLA-PT  included 
the  Political  Bureau,  Central  Committee,  and  the  party  congress, 
each  headed  by  the  president  as  party  chairman  (see  fig.  12). 
A  hierarchy  of  committees  existed  at  the  provincial,  district,  and 
village  levels;  the  smallest  of  these,  the  party  cell,  operated  in  many 
neighborhoods  and  workplaces.  The  MPLA-PT 's  organizing  prin- 
ciple was  democratic  centralism,  which  allowed  participants  at  each 
level  of  the  organization  to  elect  representatives  to  the  next  higher 


171 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


CHAIRMAN  OF  THE  MPLA-PT* 
PRESIDENT  OF  THE  REPUBLIC 


POLITICAL  BUREAU 


CENTRAL  COMMITTEE 


CONGRESS 


SECRETARIAT 


EXECUTIVE  PERSONNEL 
FOREIGN  RELATIONS 
DEFENSE  AND  SECURITY 
ORGANIZATION 

ADMINISTRATION  AND  FINANCES 
ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  POLICIES 
IDEOLOGY 

STATE  AND  LEGAL  AGENCIES 
PRODUCTIVE  SECTOR 


AUXILIARY  DEPARTMENTS 


PROVINCIAL  COMMITTEES 


Z  X 


DISTRICT  COMMITTEE 


z 


LOCAL 
COMMITTEE 


X 


DISTRICT  COMMITTEE 


LOCAL 
COMMITTEE 


/, 

\ 

/ 

\ 

CELL  1 

CELL 

CELL 

j  CELL 

z 


LOCAL 
COMMITTEE 


X 


LOCAL 
COMMITTEE 


/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

CELL 

j  CELL 

]  CELL 

CELL 

'MPLA-PT -Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola-Workers'  Party 
(Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola-Par tido  de  Trabalho-MPLA-PT) 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Keith  Somerville,  Angola,  Boulder,  1986,  88-89;  and 
Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola- Workers'  Party,  Angola:  Trabalho 
e  luta,  Paris,  1985,  68. 

Figure  12.  Structure  of  the  MPLA-PT,  1988 


level.  MPLA-PT  policy  guaranteed  open  discussion  at  each  level, 
but  majority  decisions  were  binding  on  the  minority,  and  lower- 
level  bodies  were  bound  by  higher-level  decisions.  Party  hierar- 
chies were  incomplete  in  most  areas,  however,  because  of  low 
literacy  rates,  poverty,  and  security  problems.  Many  lower-level 
party  functionaries  therefore  had  roles  in  both  party  and  govern- 
ment. 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


Political  Bureau 

The  Political  Bureau's  eleven  full  members  and  two  alternates 
were  elected  from  among  Central  Committee  members  to  assume 
the  responsibilities  of  the  committee  between  its  sessions  and  to 
control  the  policy  direction  of  the  party.  This  small  group  wielded 
substantial  power  within  the  MPLA-PT,  and  its  authority  and 
membership  overlapped  that  of  the  Central  Committee  Secretariat. 
In  late  1988,  the  Political  Bureau  and  the  Defense  and  Security 
Council  were  the  most  influential  bodies  in  the  party  and  govern- 
ment, respectively. 

Central  Committee 

Although  the  Central  Committee  was  formally  subordinate  to 
the  MPLA-PT  party  congress,  in  late  1988  the  ninety  Central 
Committee  members  wielded  greater  influence  over  party  policy. 
The  Central  Committee  assumed  control  between  sessions  of  the 
party  congress,  and  members  of  the  Central  Committee  were  in- 
fluential in  setting  the  congressional  agenda. 

Central  Committee  actions  were  implemented  under  the  direc- 
tion of  its  Secretariat,  which  in  late  1988  consisted  of  nine  depart- 
ment heads  elected  from  the  Central  Committee.  The  Secretariat 
was  responsible  for  directing  day-to-day  party  work,  collecting  and 
analyzing  information,  preparing  guidelines,  and  recommending 
courses  of  action  in  accordance  with  party  congress  policy. 

Subordinate  to  the  Central  Committee  Secretariat  were  seven- 
teen specialized  auxiliary  agencies,  which  in  late  1988  included  the 
departments  of  administration  and  finance,  agriculture,  culture  and 
sports,  defense  and  security,  economic  and  social  policies,  educa- 
tion, energy  and  communications,  executive  personnel,  foreign  re- 
lations, industry,  information  and  propaganda,  legal  system,  mass 
and  social  organizations,  organization,  policy  and  ideology,  pub- 
lic welfare,  and  state  agencies.  These  departments  worked  in  cooper- 
ation with  provincial  and  lower-level  party  organizations  to 
implement  Central  Committee  directives. 

Party  Congress 

Theoretically  the  supreme  body  within  the  MPLA-PT,  the  party 
congress  was  actually  controlled  by  top  party  officials.  Following 
its  first  regular  session  in  1977  and  an  extraordinary  session  in  1980, 
the  party  congress  was  expected  to  convene  once  every  five  years. 
Most  of  the  630  delegates  to  the  1985  Second  Party  Congress  were 
elected  from  among  provincial  committees,  with  most  members 
of  the  Central  Committee  and  all  members  of  the  Political  Bureau 


173 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

as  delegates.  The  party  congress  was  responsible  for  setting  the 
party's  overall  policy  direction,  confirming  the  Political  Bureau's 
choice  of  party  chairman  and  president,  and  electing  the  Central 
Committee  members,  who  retained  the  decision-making  authori- 
ty of  the  party  congress  between  sessions. 

Regional  Organization 

The  basic  unit  of  the  party  was  the  cell,  which  consisted  of  be- 
tween three  and  thirty  members  within  a  workplace  or  small  neigh- 
borhood. Each  cell  elected  a  sector  committee,  which  in  turn  elected 
a  rural  village  committee  or  urban  neighborhood  committee,  as 
appropriate.  These  committees,  in  turn,  elected  district  and  provin- 
cial committees.  Higher-level  committees  were  supposed  to  meet 
every  two  years  and  elect  executive  functionaries  to  set  their  agen- 
das and  retain  minimal  authority  between  meetings.  An  impor- 
tant task  in  each  committee  was  the  election  of  a  party  control 
commission  to  combat  factionalism  and  promote  cooperation  among 
party  functionaries  within  the  region.  At  each  level,  control  com- 
mission members  were  confirmed  by  the  next  higher  level  body 
before  assuming  office. 

Operations 

In  addition  to  a  chronic  shortage  of  cadres,  the  MPLA-PT  faced 
numerous  obstacles  in  its  first  decade  as  a  ruling  body.  By  late  1988, 
the  MPLA-PT  party  structure  had  not  yet  matured  enough  to 
respond  temperately  to  criticism,  either  from  within  or  from  with- 
out. Party  leaders  dealt  harshly  with  their  critics,  and  political 
participation  was  still  carefully  controlled.  Impeded  by  civil  war, 
insurgency,  economic  problems,  and  the  perception  of  elitism  within 
its  party  ranks,  the  MPLA-PT  campaign  to  mobilize  grass-roots 
support  remained  in  its  early  stages.  Party  membership  was  a 
prerequisite  for  effective  political  action,  but  channels  of  entry  into 
the  MPLA-PT  were  constricted  by  the  party's  entrenched  leader- 
ship and  centralized  authority  structure.  Critics  of  the  MPLA- 
PT,  in  turn,  felt  that  after  a  quarter-century  of  warfare,  they  were 
being  underserved  by  a  large  government  apparatus  that  was  pre- 
occupied with  internal  and  external  security. 

Factionalism  also  slowed  the  implementation  of  MPLA-PT  pro- 
grams. Rather  than  a  strong,  unified,  vanguard  leadership,  the 
MPLA-PT  presented  an  elite  cadre  torn  by  racial  and  ideological 
differences.  Racial  stratification,  the  legacy  of  colonial  rule,  per- 
meated the  party  and  society,  providing  a  continuous  reminder  of 
economic  inequities.  The  MPLA-PT  had  not  established  a  repu- 
tation as  a  leader  in  the  struggle  to  end  racial  discrimination, 


174 


Villagers  in  Benguela  Province  showing  support  for  the  government 

at  an  impromptu  rally 
Courtesy  Richard  J.  Hough 


175 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

in  part  because  of  its  roots  among  student  elites  selected  by  colonial 
officials.  Many  early  party  leaders  were  mestigos  who  had  studied 
in  Europe;  some  had  married  whites  and  were  removed  from  the 
cultural  background  of  their  African  relatives.  Moreover,  some 
Angolans  still  identified  Marxist  philosophy  with  European  intellec- 
tuals rather  than  African  peasants. 

Ideological  splits  also  grew  within  party  ranks  during  the  first 
nine  years  of  dos  Santos's  regime,  overlaying  racial  divisions.  Diver- 
gent views  on  the  role  of  Marxism  in  Angola  produced  clashes  over 
domestic  and  foreign  policy.  Some  African  MPLA-PT  leaders 
placed  nationalist  goals  ahead  of  ideological  goals,  such  as  the  radical 
transformation  of  society,  and  one  of  their  nationalist  goals  was 
the  elimination  of  mestigo  domination. 

The  lines  between  racial  and  ideological  factions  tended  to  coin- 
cide. On  the  one  hand,  strong  pro- Soviet  views  were  often  found 
among  the  party's  mestigo  leaders,  who  were  inclined  to  view 
Angola's  political  situation  in  terms  of  revolutionary  class  strug- 
gle. In  their  eyes,  ethnic,  regional,  and  other  subnational  loyalties 
were  obstacles  to  political  mobilization.  Black  African  party  mili- 
tants, on  the  other  hand,  often  viewed  racial  problems  as  more 
important  than  class  struggle,  and  they  hoped  to  shape  the  MPLA- 
PT  into  a  uniquely  Angolan  political  structure.  For  them,  Soviet 
intervention  brought  new  threats  of  racism  and  foreign  domina- 
tion. Traditional  ethnic  group  leaders  were,  in  this  view,  vital  to 
grassroots  mobilization  campaigns.  Race  and  ideology  did  not 
always  coincide,  however.  A  few  staunch  ideologues  were  black 
Africans,  while  a  small  number  of  mestigos  espoused  moderate  views 
and  favored  nonaligned  policies. 

Political  Environment 

In  many  Third  World  states,  the  president  was  the  paramount 
leader,  and  in  this  regard  Angola  was  no  exception.  Its  president, 
Jose  Eduardo  dos  Santos,  combined  strong  party  loyalty  with 
political  pragmatism.  This  loyalty  had  political  and  personal  bases. 
Dos  Santos  owed  much  of  his  success  to  the  MPLA,  which  he  had 
joined  in  1962  at  the  age  of  nineteen.  The  party  sponsored  his  study 
at  Baku  University  in  the  Soviet  Union  from  1963  to  1970.  In  1974 
MPLA  leader  Neto  appointed  dos  Santos  to  the  Central  Commit- 
tee, which  elected  him  to  its  elite  Political  Bureau;  this  group  elected 
him  to  succeed  Neto,  who  died  in  1979.  Dos  Santos  traveled  to 
the  Soviet  Union  a  few  weeks  later  to  confirm  his  revolutionary 
agenda  as  president. 

Dos  Santos's  loyalty  to  Marxism-Leninism  was  founded  in  his 
student  years  in  the  Soviet  Union,  where  he  also  married  a  Soviet 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


citizen  (who  later  returned  to  her  homeland).  There,  he  developed 
his  belief  in  the  vanguard  party  as  the  best  strategy  for  mobilizing 
Angola's  largely  rural  population.  At  the  same  time,  however,  he 
professed  belief  in  a  mixed  economy,  some  degree  of  decentraliza- 
tion, an  expanded  private  sector,  and  Western  investment.  Like 
many  African  leaders,  he  did  not  equate  political  eclecticism  with 
internal  contradiction,  nor  did  he  view  Angola's  political  posture 
as  an  invitation  to  Soviet  domination. 

Dos  Santos  did  not  embrace  Marxism  for  its  Utopian  appeal; 
his  view  of  Angolan  society  after  the  envisioned  socialist  transfor- 
mation did  not  lack  internal  conflict.  Rather,  he  viewed  Marxist- 
Leninist  organizational  tenets  as  the  most  practical  basis  for 
mobilizing  a  society  in  which  the  majority  lacked  economic  and 
educational  opportunities.  A  small  vanguard  leadership,  with  proper 
motivation  and  training,  could  guide  the  population  through  the 
early  stages  of  national  development,  in  his  view,  and  this  approach 
could  improve  the  lives  of  more  people  than  capitalist  investment 
and  profit  making  by  a  small  minority.  During  the  1980s,  because 
trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe  failed  to  develop 
and  because  Western  technical  expertise  appeared  vital  to  Ango- 
la's development,  dos  Santos  favored  improved  political  relations 
with  the  West  as  a  step  toward  peace  and  greater  prosperity.  Al- 
though he  had  scorned  his  predecessor's  shift  in  the  same  direc- 
tion in  the  late  1970s,  dos  Santos  denied  that  his  move  signaled 
a  weakening  commitment  to  Marxism. 

Despite  his  strong  party  loyalty,  in  the  late  1980s  dos  Santos  was 
known  as  a  political  pragmatist.  He  sometimes  spoke  out  against 
the  MPLA-PT's  most  extreme  ideologues  and  took  steps  to  limit 
their  influence.  He  openly  criticized  the  results  of  the  rectification 
campaign  of  the  late  1970s,  which,  in  his  view,  had  removed  too 
many  loyal  members  from  the  party's  rolls.  He  also  recognized 
that  the  campaign  had  alienated  much  of  the  nation's  peasant 
majority,  that  they  remained  indifferent  toward  party  programs  in 
the  late  1980s,  and  that  they  had  not  benefited  from  many  MPLA- 
PT  policies. 

Political  pragmatism  was  not  to  be  confused  with  a  liberal  style 
of  governing.  In  response  to  security  crises  and  public  criticism, 
dos  Santos  ordered  arrests,  detentions  without  trial,  and  occasional 
executions.  He  concentrated  power  in  his  office  and  narrowed  his 
circle  of  close  advisers.  He  enlarged  the  executive  branch  of  govern- 
ment by  appointing  new  ministers  of  state  to  coordinate  executive 
branch  activity  and  convinced  the  MPLA-PT  Central  Commit- 
tee to  entrust  him  with  emergency  powers.  Dos  Santos  also  per- 
suaded party  leaders  to  empower  him  to  appoint  regional  military 


177 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


councils  that  had  sweeping  authority  over  civilian  and  military 
affairs  in  unstable  regions  of  the  country  and  that  were  answer- 
able only  to  the  president. 

Dos  Santos  further  consolidated  his  hold  on  executive  authority 
in  April  1984  by  establishing  the  Defense  and  Security  Council  (see 
Executive  Branch,  this  ch.).  In  1985  he  enlarged  the  party  Cen- 
tral Committee  from  sixty  to  ninety  members  and  alternates,  thus 
diluting  the  strength  of  its  staunch  ideological  faction. 

Undermining  potential  opponents  was  not  dos  Santos's  only 
motivation  for  consolidating  power  within  the  executive  branch  of 
government.  He  was  also  impatient  with  bureaucratic  "red  tape," 
even  when  justified  in  the  name  of  party  discipline.  Accordingly, 
the  primary  qualification  for  his  trusted  advisers  was  a  balance  of 
competence,  efficiency,  and  loyalty.  Rhetorical  skills,  which  he 
generally  lacked,  were  not  given  particular  priority;  ideological 
purity  was  even  less  important.  His  advice  for  economic  recovery 
was  summed  up  as  "produce,  repair,  and  rehabilitate."  The  direct, 
relatively  nonideological  governing  style  exemplified  by  this 
approach  earned  dos  Santos  substantial  respect  and  a  few  strong 
critics. 

Economic  and  security  crises  worsened  during  the  first  nine  years 
of  dos  Santos's  presidency,  draining  resources  that  might  have  been 
used  to  improve  living  standards  and  education.  The  president 
rejected  advice  from  party  ideologues,  whose  primary  aim  was  to 
develop  a  sophisticated  Marxist-Leninist  party  apparatus.  Rather 
than  emphasize  centralized  control  and  party  discipline,  dos  San- 
tos embraced  a  plan  to  decentralize  economic  decision  making  in 
1988.  He  then  appointed  Minister  of  Planning  Lopo  do  Nascimento 
to  serve  as  commissioner  of  Huila  Province  in  order  to  implement 
this  plan  in  a  crucial  region  of  the  country. 

The  1985  Second  Party  Congress  assented  to  the  president's 
growing  power  by  approving  several  of  his  choices  for  top  govern- 
ment office  as  party  officials.  Among  these  was  Roberto  de  Almei- 
da, a  member  of  the  Defense  and  Security  Council  in  his  capacity 
as  the  MPLA-PT  secretary  for  ideology,  information,  and  culture 
and  one  of  dos  Santos's  close  advisers.  Party  leaders  elected  Almei- 
da, a  mestigo,  to  both  the  MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  and  the  Po- 
litical Bureau. 

Demoted  from  the  top  ranks  of  the  party  were  the  leading  ideo- 
logue, Liicio  Lara,  and  veteran  mestigo  leaders  Paulo  Jorge  and  Hen- 
rique Carreira  (nom  de  guerre  Iko).  The  split  between  ideologues 
and  political  moderates  did  not  render  the  party  immobile,  in  part 
because  of  dos  Santos's  skill  at  using  Angola's  internal  and  exter- 
nal threats  to  unite  MPLA-PT  factions.  The  ever-present  UNITA 


178 


179 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

insurgency  provided  a  constant  reminder  of  the  frailty  of  the  nation's 
security. 

Mass  Organizations  and  Interest  Groups 
Mass  Organizations 

Three  mass  organizations  were  affiliated  with  the  MPLA-PT 
in  1988 — the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola- 
Youth  Movement  (Juventude  do  Movimento  Popular  de  Liberta- 
cao  de  Angola — JMPLA),  the  Organization  of  Angolan  Women 
(Organizacao  da  Mulher  Angolana — OMA),  and  the  UNTA.  Each 
was  founded  as  an  anticolonial  social  movement  during  the  1960s 
and  transformed  into  a  party  affiliate  when  the  MPLA-PT  became 
a  vanguard  party  in  1977.  Although  these  groups  were  formally 
subordinate  to  the  party  in  accordance  with  Marxist-Leninist  doc- 
trine, they  continued  to  operate  with  relative  autonomy.  Strict  party 
ideologues  objected  to  this  independence  and  sometimes  treated 
organization  leaders  with  contempt.  The  resulting  tensions  added 
to  public  resentment  of  party  discipline  and  became  a  political  issue 
when  Neto  accused  leaders  of  the  JMPLA,  the  OMA,  and  the 
UNTA  of  supporting  the  Nitista  coup  attempt  of  1977.  Alves,  the 
coup  leader,  had  criticized  MPLA-PT  leaders  for  bourgeois  atti- 
tudes and  racism,  and  many  people  in  these  organizations  supported 
Alves 's  allegations. 

In  the  late  1970s,  mass  organizations  became  an  important 
target  of  the  rectification  campaign.  Their  role  in  society  was 
redefined  to  emphasize  the  dissemination  of  information  about 
party  policy  and  the  encouragement  of  participation  in  pro- 
grams. Throughout  most  of  the  next  decade,  MPLA-PT  officials 
continued  to  criticize  the  lack  of  coordination  of  organizational  agen- 
da with  party  needs.  The  mass  organizations  became  centers  of 
public  resentment  of  MPLA-PT  controls,  but  these  groups  were 
not  yet  effective  at  organizing  or  mobilizing  against  MPLA-PT 
rule. 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola-Youth  Movement 

The  JMPLA  was  founded  in  1962  and  converted  into  a  train- 
ing ground  for  MPLA-PT  activists  in  1977.  It  claimed  a  mem- 
bership of  72,000,  mostly  teenagers  and  students,  in  1988.  The 
JMPLA  conducted  military  exercises  and  political  study  groups, 
measuring  success  within  the  group  primarily  by  an  individual's 
commitment  to  the  socialist  revolution.  The  Second  Congress  of 
the  JMPLA  was  held  on  April  14,  1987,  a  date  that  was  also 
celebrated  as  National  Youth  Day. 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


Despite  the  symbolic  and  practical  importance  of  the  political 
role  of  the  nation's  youth,  MPLA-PT  officials  generally  had  a  deri- 
sive attitude  toward  JMPLA  leaders  during  the  1980s.  At  the 
MPLA-PT  congresses  of  1980  and  1985,  party  officials  criticized 
youth  leaders  for  their  failure  to  encourage  political  activism.  They 
also  remonstrated  against  youth  group  officials  for  the  bourgeois 
attitudes,  materialism,  and  political  apathy  they  detected  among 
children  and  teenagers.  One  measure  of  these  problems  was  the 
continued  urban  influx  among  young  people,  which  impeded 
MPLA-PT  efforts  at  rural  mobilization. 

MPLA-PT  leaders  assigned  the  JMPLA  the  task  of  guiding 
the  national  children's  organization,  the  Agostinho  Neto  Organiza- 
tion of  Pioneers  (Organizacao  dos  Pioneiros  Agostinho  Neto — 
OPA).  The  goal  of  the  OPA  was  to  educate  all  children  in  patriotic 
values,  socialism,  and  the  importance  of  study,  work,  and  scien- 
tific knowledge.  Founded  as  the  Pioneers  in  1975,  the  group  took 
the  name  of  the  nation's  first  president  at  its  second  conference 
in  November  1979,  following  Neto's  death.  JMPLA  leaders  gener- 
ally viewed  the  OPA  as  a  recruiting  ground  for  potential  political 
activists. 

National  Union  of  Angolan  Workers 

The  UNTA  was  organized  in  1960  in  the  Belgian  Congo  (present- 
day  Zaire)  to  assist  refugees  and  exiled  MPLA  members  in  their 
efforts  to  maintain  social  contacts  and  find  jobs.  Managing  the 
UNTA  became  more  difficult  after  independence.  The  UNTA 
headquarters  was  transferred  to  Luanda,  where  the  shortage  of 
skilled  workers  and  personnel  for  management  and  training  pro- 
grams became  immediately  evident.  UNTA  leaders  worked  to 
transform  the  group  from  an  adjunct  to  a  national  liberation  army 
to  a  state  labor  union,  but  encouraged  by  the  "people's  power" 
movement,  many  workers  thought  the  MPLA  victory  entitled  them 
to  assume  control  of  their  workplace.  UNTA  leaders  found  that 
workers'  rights  were  sometimes  given  a  lower  priority  than  work- 
ers' obligations,  and  at  times  industrial  workers  found  themselves 
at  odds  with  both  the  government  and  their  own  union  leadership. 
These  tensions  were  exacerbated  by  the  demands  of  militant  work- 
ers who  favored  more  sweeping  nationalization  programs  than  those 
undertaken  by  the  government;  some  workers  opposed  any  com- 
pensation of  foreign  owners. 

During  the  early  1980s,  Cuban  advisers  were  assigned  to  bring 
industrial  workers  into  the  MPLA-PT.  With  their  Angolan  coun- 
terparts in  the  UNTA,  Cuban  shop  stewards  and  union  officials 
undertook  educational  programs  in  technical  and  management 


181 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

training,  labor  discipline  and  productivity,  and  socialist  econom- 
ics. Their  overall  goal  was  to  impart  a  sense  of  worker  participa- 
tion in  the  management  of  the  state  economy — a  difficult  task  in 
an  environment  characterized  by  warfare  and  economic  crisis.  By 
late  1988,  the  Cubans  had  achieved  mixed  success.  Some  of  the 
UNTA's  600,000  members  looked  forward  to  the  prosperity  they 
hoped  to  achieve  through  MPLA-PT  policies;  many  others  felt  their 
links  to  the  government  did  little  to  improve  their  standard  of  liv- 
ing, and  they  were  relatively  uncommitted  to  the  construction  of 
a  socialist  state.  UNTA  officers  did  not  aggressively  represent  work- 
er interests  when  they  conflicted  with  those  of  the  party,  and  the 
fear  of  labor  unrest  became  part  of  Angola's  political  context. 

Organization  of  Angolan  Women 

The  OMA  was  established  in  1963  to  mobilize  support  for  the 
fledgling  MPLA.  After  independence,  it  became  the  primary  route 
by  which  women  were  incorporated  in  the  political  process.  Its 
membership  rose  to  1 .8  million  in  1985  but  dropped  to  fewer  than 
1 .3  million  in  1987.  The  group  attributed  this  decline  to  the  regional 
destabilization  and  warfare  that  displaced  and  destroyed  families 
in  rural  areas,  where  more  than  two- thirds  of  OMA  members  lived. 
In  1983  Ruth  Neto,  the  former  president's  sister,  was  elected  secre- 
tary general  of  the  OMA  and  head  of  its  fifty-three-member  national 
committee.  Neto  was  reelected  secretary  general  by  the  596  dele- 
gates who  attended  the  OMA's  second  nationwide  conference  on 
March  2,  1988. 

During  the  1980s,  the  OMA  established  literacy  programs  and 
worked  to  expand  educational  opportunities  for  women,  and  the 
government  passed  new  legislation  outlawing  gender  discrimina- 
tion in  wages  and  working  conditions  (see  Conditions  after  Indepen- 
dence, ch.  2).  MPLA-PT  rhetoric  emphasized  equality  between 
the  sexes  as  a  prerequisite  to  a  prosperous  socialist  state.  At  both 
the  First  Party  Congress  and  the  Second  Party  Congress,  the 
MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  extolled  contributions  made  by 
women,  but  in  1988  only  10  percent  of  MPLA-PT  members  were 
women,  and  the  goal  of  equality  remained  distant.  Through  the 
OMA,  some  women  were  employed  in  health  and  social  service 
organizations,  serving  refugees  and  rural  families.  More  women 
were  finding  jobs  in  teaching  and  professions  from  which  they  had 
been  excluded  in  the  past,  and  a  very  small  number  occupied 
important  places  in  government  and  the  MPLA-PT.  However, 
most  Angolan  women  were  poor  and  unemployed. 

In  addition  to  leading  the  OMA,  Ruth  Neto  also  served  on 
the  MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  and  as  secretary  general  of  the 


182 


77z£  government  has  had  difficulty  mobilizing  support 

from  peasant  farmers. 

Pan- African  Women's  Organization  (PAWO),  which  had  its  head- 
quarters in  Luanda.  The  PAWO  helped  sponsor  Angola's  annual 
celebration  of  Women's  Day  (August  9),  which  was  also  attended 
by  representatives  from  neighboring  states  and  liberation  move- 
ments in  South  Africa  and  Namibia. 

Interest  Groups 

Peasant  Farmers 

In  the  early  1970s,  rural  volunteers  were  the  backbone  of  the 
MPLA  fighting  forces,  but  after  independence  few  peasant  fight- 
ers were  given  leadership  positions  in  the  party.  In  fact,  most  farm- 
ers were  purged  from  the  party  during  the  rectification  campaign 
of  the  late  1970s  for  their  lack  of  political  commitment  or  revolu- 
tionary zeal.  Criteria  for  party  membership  were  stricter  for  farmers 
than  for  urban  workers,  and  a  decade  later  MPLA-PT  leaders 
generally  conceded  that  the  worker-peasant  alliance,  on  which  the 
socialist  transformation  depended,  had  been  weakened  by  the  rec- 
tification campaign.  When  debating  the  reasons  for  this  failure, 
some  MPLA-PT  members  argued  that  their  urban-based  leader- 
ship had  ignored  rural  demands  and  implemented  policies  favor- 
ing urban  residents  (see  Effects  of  Socialist  Policies,  ch.  2).  Others 
claimed  that  the  party  had  allowed  farmers  to  place  their  own 


183 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

interests  above  those  of  society  and  that  they  were  beginning  to 
emerge  as  the  rural  bourgeoisie  denounced  by  Marxist-Leninist 
leaders  in  many  countries. 

Policies  aimed  at  rural  development  in  the  early  1980s  had  called 
for  the  establishment  of  state  farms  to  improve  productivity  of  basic 
foodstuffs  in  the  face  of  shortages  in  equipment  and  technical  ex- 
perts. Cuban  and  Bulgarian  farm  managers  were  put  in  charge 
of  most  of  these  farms.  These  advisers'  objectives  were  to  introduce 
the  use  of  mechanization  and  chemical  fertilizers  and  to  inculcate 
political  awareness.  By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the  salaries  of  for- 
eign technical  experts  and  the  cost  of  new  equipment  far  outweighed 
revenues  generated  by  these  state  enterprises,  and  the  program  was 
abandoned. 

Many  farmers  reverted  to  subsistence  agriculture  in  the  face  of 
the  spreading  UNITA  insurgency  and  what  they  often  perceived  as 
government  neglect.  Convincing  them  to  produce  surplus  crops  for 
markets  presented  formidable  problems  for  party  leaders.  UNITA 
forces  sometimes  claimed  crops  even  before  they  were  harvested, 
and  urban  traders  seldom  ventured  into  insecure  rural  areas.  Even 
if  a  farmer  were  able  to  sell  surplus  crops,  the  official  price  was  of- 
ten unrealistically  low,  and  few  consumer  goods  were  available  in 
rural  markets  even  for  those  with  cash  (see  Agriculture,  ch.  3). 

In  response  to  the  apparent  intransigence  of  some  rural  Ango- 
lans, the  MPLA-PT  attempted  another  strategy  for  mobilizing 
political  support  by  creating  farmers'  cooperatives  and  organizing 
them  into  unions  to  provide  channels  of  communication  between 
farmers  and  party  leaders.  In  late  1988,  these  unions  represented 
only  a  small  percentage  of  the  rural  population,  but  some  party 
leaders  still  expected  them  to  succeed.  Rural  resentment  of  the 
urban-based  MPLA-PT  leadership  was  still  fairly  widespread, 
however,  and  this  resentment  contributed  to  the  success  of  UNITA 
in  Angola's  southern  and  eastern  provinces. 

Traditional  Elites 

In  the  late  1980s,  President  dos  Santos  was  working  to  strengthen 
his  support  among  the  nation's  traditional  leaders.  Every  few  weeks, 
he  would  invite  delegations  of  provincial  and  local-level  represen- 
tatives to  meet  with  him,  and  Angop  would  headline  these  meet- 
ings with  4 'the  chiefs."  Their  discussions  focused  on  regional 
economic  and  social  concerns  and  served  the  important  political 
purpose  of  demonstrating  the  government's  desire  to  avoid  con- 
frontation and  to  secure  support  in  rural  areas. 

The  MPLA  had  a  neutral  relationship  with  traditional  elites 
before  independence,  in  part  because  the  urban-based  party  had 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


little  contact  with  ethnic  group  leaders,  whose  following  was  stron- 
gest in  rural  areas.  After  independence,  in  its  determination  to 
improve  the  national  economy  and  infrastructure,  the  MP  LA  called 
on  people  to  rise  above  ethnic  and  regional  loyalties,  labeling  them 
impediments  to  progress  in  the  class  struggle.  Early  MPLA  rhetoric 
also  condemned  many  religious  practices,  including  local  African 
religions.  Such  policies  provoked  the  contempt  of  some  traditional 
leaders. 

Crises  were  dampened  somewhat  by  the  party's  often  confron- 
tational relationship  with  the  civil  service  during  the  early  1970s. 
Civil  servants,  as  representatives  of  the  colonial  regime,  had  often 
clashed  with  traditional  leaders  or  had  otherwise  subverted  their 
authority.  The  MPLA,  in  contrast,  condemned  the  elitist  attitudes 
of  bureaucrats  who  were  employed  by  the  colonial  regime,  thus 
gaining  support  from  traditional  rulers.  At  the  same  time,  however, 
the  party  drew  much  of  its  support  from  the  petite  bourgeoisie  it 
condemned  so  loudly,  and  much  of  the  civil  service  remained  intact 
after  independence. 

By  1980  MPLA-PT  efforts  to  consolidate  support  in  outlying 
regions  were  evident.  Party  officials  appointed  ethnic  group  lead- 
ers to  participate  in  or  lead  local  party  committees  in  many  areas. 
Merging  traditional  and  modern  leadership  roles  helped  strength- 
en support  among  rural  peasants  who  would  have  otherwise 
remained  on  the  periphery  of  national  politics.  Although  success 
was  limited  to  a  few  areas,  this  program  allowed  dos  Santos  to  main- 
tain a  balance  between  national  and  regional  interests.  Even  some 
party  ideologues,  initially  inclined  toward  strict  interpretations  of 
Marxist-Leninist  dogma,  voiced  the  belief  that  populist  elements 
might  be  appropriate  for  a  Marxist  regime  in  an  African  context. 

Religious  Communities 

The  MPLA-PT  maintained  a  cautious  attitude  toward  religion 
in  the  late  1980s,  in  contrast  to  its  determination  in  the  late  1970s 
to  purge  churchgoers  from  the  party.  A  1980  Ministry  of  Justice 
decree  required  all  religious  institutions  to  register  with  the  govern- 
ment. As  of  1987,  eleven  Protestant  institutions  were  legally  recog- 
nized: the  Assembly  of  God,  the  Baptist  Convention  of  Angola, 
the  Baptist  Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  the  Congregational 
Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  the  Evangelical  Church  of  Ango- 
la, the  Evangelical  Church  of  South-West  Angola,  the  Our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  Church  in  the  World  (Kimbanguist),  the  Reformed 
Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  the  Seventh-Day  Adventist  Church, 
the  Union  of  Evangelical  Churches  of  Angola,  and  the  United 
Methodist  Church  (see  Christianity,  ch.  2).  Roberto  de  Almeida, 


185 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


the  MPLA-PT  Central  Committee  secretary  for  ideology,  infor- 
mation, and  culture,  admonished  church  leaders  not  to  perpetu- 
ate oppressive  or  elitist  attitudes,  and  he  specifically  warned  that 
the  churches  would  not  be  allowed  to  take  a  neutral  stance  in  the 
battle  against  opponents  of  the  MPLA-PT  regime. 

The  official  attitude  toward  religion  reflected  the  ideological  split 
in  the  party  leadership.  Staunch  party  ideologues,  who  had  purged 
almost  all  churchgoers  during  the  rectification  campaign  of  the  late 
1970s,  opposed  leniency  toward  anyone  claiming  or  recognizing 
moral  authority  outside  the  regime.  But  as  they  had  done  in  regard 
to  traditional  leaders,  the  president  and  his  close  associates  weighed 
the  balance  between  ideological  purity  and  political  necessity  and 
soon  moderated  their  antireligious  stance.  Political  opposition  had 
not  coalesced  around  religious  leaders,  and,  in  general,  the  fear 
of  religious  opposition  was  weakening  in  the  late  1980s. 

Employing  Marxist-Leninist  diatribes  against  the  oppression  of 
the  working  class,  only  the  most  strident  ideologues  in  the  MPLA- 
PT  maintained  their  opposition  to  religion.  The  Roman  Catholic 
Church  was  still  strongly  identified  with  the  colonial  oppressor,  and 
Protestant  missionaries  were  sometimes  condemned  for  having  sup- 
ported colonial  practices.  More  serious  in  the  government's  view 
in  the  late  1980s  was  the  use  by  its  foremost  opponent,  Jonas  Savim- 
bi,  of  the  issue  of  religion  to  recruit  members  and  support  for  his 
UNITA  insurgency.  Savimbi's  Church  of  Christ  in  the  Bush  had 
become  an  effective  religious  affiliate  of  UNITA,  maintaining 
schools,  clinics,  and  training  programs. 

Small  religious  sects  were  annoying  to  MPLA-PT  officials.  The 
ruling  party  suspected  such  groups  of  having  foreign  sponsors  or 
of  being  used  by  opponents  of  the  regime.  To  the  government,  the 
sects'  relative  independence  from  world  religions  was  a  gauge  of 
their  potential  for  political  independence  as  well.  Watch  Tower  and 
Seventh-Day  Adventist  sects  were  suspect,  but  they  were  not  per- 
ceived as  serious  political  threats.  However,  the  Jehovah's  Wit- 
nesses were  banned  entirely  in  1978  because  of  their  proscription 
on  military  service. 

During  the  late  1980s,  security  officials  considered  the  small  Our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  Church  in  the  World  to  be  a  threat  to  the  regime, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  Mtokoists,  as  they  were  known,  were  not 
particularly  interested  in  national  politics  (see  Internal  Security, 
ch.  5).  Their  founder,  Simon  Mtoko  (also  known  as  Simao  Toco), 
had  been  expelled  from  Angola  by  the  Portuguese  in  1950  for 
preaching  adherence  to  African  cultural  values.  He  returned  to 
Angola  in  1974  but  soon  clashed  with  MPLA  leaders  over  the 
regime's  authority  over  individual  beliefs.  He  opposed  the  party's 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


Marxist  rhetoric  on  cultural  grounds  until  his  death  in  1984.  After 
his  death,  officials  feared  the  group  would  splinter  into  dissident 
factions.  The  church  was  legally  recognized  in  1988  even  though 
Mtokoists  clashed  with  police  in  1987  and  1988,  resulting  in  arrests 
and  some  casualties. 

Political  Opposition 

After  thirteen  years  of  national  independence,  Angola's  armed 
forces,  FAPLA,  remained  pitted  against  UNIT  A  in  a  civil  war  that 
had  erupted  out  of  the  preindependence  rivalry  among  liberation 
armies.  The  FNLA  and  the  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  En- 
clave of  Cabinda  (Frente  para  a  Libertacao  do  Enclave  de 
Cabinda — FLEC)  lost  popular  support  during  the  first  decade  of 
independence,  and,  as  a  result,  in  1988  UNITA  remained  the  only 
serious  internal  threat  to  the  dos  Santos  regime.  Few  Angolans 
expected  either  UNITA  or  government  forces  to  achieve  a  mili- 
tary victory,  but  the  political  impact  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  was 
substantial  nonetheless  (see  The  Enduring  Rival:  UNITA,  ch.  5). 

Jonas  Savimbi  established  UNITA  in  1966.  Leading  a  group 
of  dissident  members  from  the  northern  coalition  that  included  the 
FNLA,  he  established  a  rival  liberation  movement  that  sought  to 
avoid  domination  by  Holden  Roberto  and  his  Bakongo  followers 
(see  Angolan  Insurgency,  ch.  1).  UNITA  recruits  from  Savimbi 's 
Ovimbundu  homeland  and  from  among  the  Chokwe  (also  spelled 
Cokwe),  Lunda,  Nganguela  (also  spelled  Ganguela),  and  other 
southern  Angolan  societies  sought  to  preserve  elements  of  their  own 
cultures  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages,  ch.  2).  Some  southern- 
ers also  maintained  centuries-old  legacies  of  distrust  toward  northern 
ethnic  groups,  including  the  Bakongo  and  the  Mbundu. 

Savimbi' s  legitimacy  as  a  dissident  leader  was  acquired  in  part 
through  the  reputation  of  his  grandfather,  who  had  led  the  Ovim- 
bundu state  of  Ndulu  in  protest  against  Portuguese  rule  in  the  early 
twentieth  century.  From  his  father,  Savimbi  acquired  membership 
and  belief  in  the  United  Church  of  Christ,  which  organized  Ovim- 
bundu villages  into  networks  to  assist  in  mission  operations  under 
colonial  rule.  One  of  these  networks  formed  the  Council  of  Evan- 
gelical Churches,  a  pan-Ovimbundu  umbrella  organization  that 
united  more  than  100,000  people  in  south-central  Angola.  They 
were  served  by  mission  schools,  training  centers,  and  clinics,  with 
near-autonomy  from  colonial  controls.  Local  leaders,  who  staffed 
some  of  these  establishments,  voiced  their  demands  for  greater 
political  freedom,  and  colonial  authorities  moved  to  suppress  the 
Council  of  Evangelical  Churches  as  pressures  for  independence 
mounted  in  the  1960s. 


187 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


The  territory  in  southeastern  Angola  controlled  by  UNITA  in 
the  late  1980s  included  part  of  the  area  that  had  been  administered 
by  the  Council  of  Evangelical  Churches  before  independence  (see 
fig.  16).  Here,  many  people  supported  Savimbi's  struggle  against 
the  MPLA-PT  as  an  extension  of  the  long  struggle  for  Ovimbun- 
du,  not  Angolan,  nationhood.  UNITA-run  schools  and  clinics  oper- 
ated with  the  same  autonomy  from  Luandan  bureaucratic  control 
as  their  mission-sponsored  counterparts  had  before  independence. 

Ethnic  loyalties  remained  strong  in  the  southeast  and  other 
UNITA-controlled  areas  of  rural  Angola.  Class  solidarity,  in  com- 
parison, was  an  almost  meaningless  abstraction.  Savimbi  was  able 
to  portray  the  class-conscious  MPLA-PT  in  Luanda  in  terms  that 
contrasted  sharply  with  models  of  leadership  among  the  Ovimbundu 
and  other  central  and  southern  Angolan  peoples.  He  described  party 
leaders  as  a  racially  stratified  elite,  dominated  by  Soviet  and  Cuban 
advisers  who  also  provided  arms  to  suppress  the  population.  The 
MPLA-PT' s  early  assaults  on  organized  religion  reinforced  this 
image.  Many  rural  Angolans  were  also  keenly  aware  that  the  party 
elite  in  Luanda  lived  at  a  much  higher  standard  than  did  Savim- 
bi's commanders  in  the  bush.  And  they  carefully  noted  that  peo- 
ple in  rural  areas  under  MPLA-PT  control  still  lived  in  poverty 
and  that  the  government  bureaucracy  was  notoriously  inefficient 
and  corrupt. 

UNITA' s  regimented  leadership,  in  turn,  presented  itself  as  the 
protector  of  rural  African  interests  against  outsiders.  Through 
Savimbi's  skilled  public  relations  efforts,  his  organization  became 
known  as  a  local  peasant  uprising,  fighting  for  political  and  reli- 
gious freedom.  Savimbi  had  no  headquarters  in  other  countries 
and  took  pride  in  the  humble  life-style  of  his  command  in  Jamba, 
well  within  UNITA-held  territory.  On  this  basis,  he  won  some  sup- 
port in  the  south  and  east,  gained  volunteers  for  UNITA  forces, 
and  slowed  government  efforts  to  extend  MPLA-PT  control  into 
the  countryside.  In  the  late  1980s,  however,  international  human 
rights  organizations  accused  UNITA  of  human  rights  abuses,  charg- 
ing that  UNITA  was  intimidating  civilians  to  force  them  to  sup- 
port UNITA  or  to  withhold  support  for  the  MPLA-PT. 

For  the  government,  the  ever-present  threat  of  the  UNITA 
insurgency  served  a  number  of  useful  purposes.  It  helped  rally  sup- 
port for  party  unity  in  the  capital  and  surrounding  areas.  The 
government  was  able  to  capitalize  on  the  reputation  for  brutality 
that  grew  up  around  some  UNITA  commanders  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  rural  resources  by  UNITA  forces.  Young  amputees  in 
Luanda  and  other  towns  provided  a  constant  reminder  of  the  several 
thousand  land  mines  left  in  rural  farmland  by  Savimbi's  troops. 


188 


In  the  late  1980s,  amputees  such  as  these  could  be  found 
in  towns  and  villages  throughout  the  country. 
Courtesy  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (Yannick  Muller) 

UNITA  activity  also  provided  an  immediate  example  of  the  party 
ideologues'  stereotype  of  destabilization  sponsored  by  international 
capitalist  forces.  These  forces  were,  in  turn,  embodied  in  the  region- 
al enemy,  South  Africa.  The  UNITA  insurgency  also  enabled  the 
MPLA-PT  government  to  justify  the  continued  presence  of  Cuban 
troops  in  Angola,  and  it  helped  maintain  international  interest  in 
Angola's  political  difficulties. 

The  regional  accord  reached  in  December  1988  by  Angolan, 
South  African,  and  Cuban  negotiators  did  not  address  Angola's 
internal  violence,  but  in  informal  discussions  among  the  par- 
ticipants, alternatives  were  suggested  for  ending  the  conflict  (see 
Regional  Politics,  this  ch.).  Western  negotiators  pressured  the 
MPLA-PT  to  bring  UNITA  officials  into  the  government,  and 
even  within  the  party,  many  people  hoped  that  UNITA 
representatives — excluding  Savimbi — would  be  reconciled  with  the 
dos  Santos  government.  Savimbi,  in  turn,  offered  to  recognize  dos 
Santos's  leadership  on  the  condition  that  free  elections,  as  promised 
by  the  1975  Alvor  Agreement,  would  take  place  after  the  withdrawal 
of  Cuban  troops. 

Mass  Media 

The  government  nationalized  all  print  and  broadcast  media  in 


189 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

1976,  and  as  of  late  1988  the  government  and  party  still  controlled 
almost  all  the  news  media.  Angola's  official  news  agency,  Angop, 
distributed  about  8,000  issues  of  the  government  newsletter, 
Didrio  da  Republica,  and  40,000  copies  of  Jornal  de  Angola  daily  in 
Luanda  and  other  urban  areas  under  FAPLA  control.  Both  pub- 
lications were  in  Portuguese.  International  press  operations  in 
Luanda  included  Agence  France-Presse,  Cuba's  Prensa  Latina, 
Xinhua  (New  China)  News  Agency,  and  several  Soviet  and  East 
European  agency  offices. 

Under  the  scrutiny  of  the  MPLA-PT,  the  media  were  limited 
to  disseminating  official  policy  without  critical  comment  or  opposing 
viewpoints.  The  Angolan  Journalists'  Union,  which  proclaimed 
the  right  to  freedom  of  expression  as  guaranteed  by  the  Constitu- 
tion, nonetheless  worked  closely  with  the  MPLA-PT  and  pressured 
writers  to  adhere  to  government  guidelines.  Views  differing  slightly 
from  official  perceptions  were  published  in  the  UNTA  monthly 
newsletter,  0  Voz  do  Trabalhador,  despite  active  censorship. 

Radio  Nacional  de  Angola  broadcast  on  medium-wave  and  short- 
wave frequencies  in  Luanda  and  eighteen  other  towns.  Radio  broad- 
casts were  in  Portuguese  and  vernacular  languages,  and  there  were 
an  estimated  435,000  receivers  in  1988.  In  the  late  1980s,  people 
in  central  and  southern  Angola  also  received  opposition  radio  broad- 
casts from  the  Voice  of  Resistance  of  the  Black  Cockerel,  operated 
by  UNITA  in  Portuguese,  English,  and  local  vernaculars.  Limit- 
ed television  service  in  Portuguese  became  available  in  Luanda  and 
surrounding  areas  in  1976,  but  by  1988  there  were  only  about 
40,500  television  sets  in  the  country. 

Angop  maintained  a  cooperative  relationship  with  the  Soviet  news 
agency,  TASS,  and  Angola  was  active  in  international  efforts  to 
improve  coordination  among  nonaligned  nations  in  the  field  of  com- 
munications. Information  ministers  and  news  agency  representa- 
tives from  several  Third  World  nations  were  scheduled  to  hold  their 
fifth  conference  in  Luanda  in  June  1989 — their  first  meeting  since 
1985,  when  they  met  in  Havana.  The  Angop  delegation  was  to 
serve  as  host  of  the  1989  conference,  and  Angolan  information  offi- 
cials in  the  government  and  party  were  to  chair  the  organization 
from  1989  to  1992. 

Angola  was  also  a  leader  among  Portuguese-speaking  nations  of 
Africa.  Students  from  these  nations  attended  the  Interstate  Jour- 
nalism School  in  Luanda,  which  opened  May  23,  1987,  with  sup- 
port from  the  Yugoslav  news  agency,  Tanyug.  In  September  1987, 
journalists  from  these  five  Lusophone  nations  held  their  third  con- 
ference in  Bissau,  Guinea-Bissau.  A  major  goal  of  this  group  was 
to  coordinate  cultural  development  based  on  their  common  language, 
but  an  important  secondary  goal  was  to  demonstrate  support  for 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


Angola  in  its  confrontation  with  South  Africa.  By  1990  they  hoped 
to  celebrate  the  Pan-African  News  Agency's  opening  of  a  Portu- 
guese desk  in  Luanda. 

Foreign  Relations 
Policy  Making 

Angola's  foreign  relations  reflected  the  ambivalence  of  its  for- 
mal commitment  to  Marxism-Leninism  and  its  dependence  on 
Western  investment  and  trade.  Overall  policy  goals  were  to  resolve 
this  dual  dependence — to  achieve  regional  and  domestic  peace, 
reduce  the  need  for  foreign  military  assistance,  enhance  economic 
self-sufficiency  through  diversified  trade  relations,  and  establish 
Angola  as  a  strong  socialist  state.  MPLA-PT  politicians  described 
Angola's  goal  as  geopolitical  nonalignment,  but  throughout  most 
of  the  1980s  Angola's  foreign  policy  had  a  pronounced  pro-Soviet 
bias. 

Two  groups  within  the  MPLA-PT  and  one  council  within  the 
executive  branch  vied  for  influence  over  foreign  policy,  all  under 
the  direct  authority  of  the  president.  Formal  responsibility  for  for- 
eign policy  programs  lay  with  the  MPLA-PT  Central  Commit- 
tee. Within  this  committee,  the  nine  members  of  the  Secretariat 
and  the  five  others  who  were  members  of  the  Political  Bureau  wield- 
ed decisive  influence.  The  Political  Bureau,  in  its  role  as  guardian 
of  the  revolution,  usually  succeeded  in  setting  the  Central  Com- 
mittee agenda. 

During  the  1980s,  as  head  of  both  the  party  and  the  government, 
dos  Santos  strengthened  the  security  role  of  the  executive  branch 
of  government,  thereby  weakening  the  control  of  the  Central  Com- 
mittee and  Political  Bureau.  To  accomplish  this  redistribution  of 
power,  in  1984  he  created  the  Defense  and  Security  Council  as  an 
executive  advisory  body,  and  he  appointed  to  this  council  the  six 
most  influential  ministers,  the  FAPLA  chief  of  the  general  staff, 
and  the  Central  Committee  secretary  for  ideology,  information, 
and  culture.  The  mandate  of  this  council  was  to  review  and  coor- 
dinate the  implementation  of  security-related  policy  efforts  among 
ministries.  The  Ministry  of  Foreign  Relations  was  more  concerned 
with  diplomatic  and  economic  affairs  than  with  security  matters. 

Southern  Africa's  regional  conflict  determined  much  of  Ango- 
la's foreign  policy  direction  during  the  1980s.  Negotiations  to  end 
South  Africa's  illegal  occupation  of  Namibia  succeeded  in  linking 
Namibian  independence  to  the  removal  of  Cuban  troops  from  An- 
gola. The  Cuban  presence  and  that  of  South  West  Africa  People's 
Organization  (SWAPO)  and  African  National  Congress  (ANC) 


191 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

bases  in  Angola  bolstered  Pretoria's  claims  of  a  Soviet- sponsored 
onslaught  against  the  apartheid  state.  On  the  grounds  that  an 
independent  Namibia  would  enlarge  the  territory  available  to 
Pretoria's  enemies  and  make  South  Africa's  borders  even  more 
vulnerable,  South  Africa  maintained  possession  of  Namibia,  which 
it  had  held  since  World  War  I.  Pretoria  launched  incursions  into 
Angola  throughout  most  of  the  1980s  and  supported  Savimbi's 
UNITA  forces  as  they  extended  their  control  throughout  eastern 
Angola. 

The  MPLA-PT  pursued  its  grass-roots  campaign  to  mobilize 
peasant  support,  and  UNITA  sought  to  capitalize  on  the  fear  of 
communism  to  enhance  its  popularity  outside  rural  Ovimbundu 
areas.  Many  Angolans  accepted  MPLA-PT  condemnations  of  the 
West  but  balanced  them  against  the  fact  that  Western  oil  compa- 
nies in  Cabinda  provided  vital  revenues  and  foreign  exchange  and 
the  fact  that  the  United  States  purchased  much  of  Angola's  oil. 
Moreover,  in  one  of  Africa's  many  ironies  that  arose  from  balanc- 
ing the  dual  quest  for  political  sovereignty  and  economic  develop- 
ment, Cuban  and  Angolan  troops  guarded  American  and  other 
Western  companies  against  attack  by  South  African  commandos 
or  UNITA  forces  (which  were  receiving  United  States  assistance). 

Regional  Politics 

Most  African  governments  maintained  generally  cautious  sup- 
port of  the  Luanda  regime  during  most  of  its  first  thirteen  years 
in  power.  African  leaders  recognized  Luanda's  right  to  reject 
Western  alignments  and  opt  for  a  Marxist  state,  following  Ango- 
la's long  struggle  to  end  colonial  domination.  This  recognition  of 
sovereignty,  however,  was  accompanied  by  uncertainty  about  the 
MPLA-PT  regime  itself,  shifting  from  a  concern  in  the  1970s  that 
spreading  Soviet  influence  would  destabilize  African  regimes  across 
the  continent  to  a  fear  in  the  1980s  that  the  MPLA-PT  might  be 
incapable  of  governing  in  the  face  of  strong  UNITA  resistance. 
The  large  Cuban  military  presence  came  to  symbolize  both  Ango- 
la's political  autonomy  from  the  West  and  the  MPLA-PT 's  reli- 
ance on  a  Soviet  client  state  to  remain  in  power.  By  1988  the  party's 
role  in  the  struggle  against  South  Africa  had  become  its  best  guaran- 
tee of  broad  support  across  sub-Saharan  Africa. 

Pretoria's  goals  in  Angola  were  to  eliminate  SWAPO  and  ANC 
bases  from  Angolan  territory,  weaken  MPLA-PT  support  for 
Pretoria's  foes  through  a  combination  of  direct  assault  and  aid  to 
UNITA,  and  reinforce  regional  dependence  on  South  Africa's  own 
extensive  transportation  system  by  closing  down  the  Benguela  Rail- 
way (see  fig.  10).  At  the  same  time,  however,  South  Africa's 


192 


Having  fled  the  UNIT  A  insurgency,  these  youngsters  faced 
malnourishment  in  a  displacement  camp. 

Courtesy  Richard  J.  Hough 


193 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


right-wing  extremists  relied  on  Marxist  rhetoric  from  Angola  and 
Mozambique  as  evidence  of  the  predicted  communist  onslaught 
against  Pretoria.  The  political  ties  of  Angola  and  Mozambique  to 
the  Soviet  Union  also  bolstered  South  Africa's  determination  to 
strengthen  its  security  apparatus  at  home  and  provided  a  ratio- 
nale for  continued  occupation  of  Namibia.  Knowing  this  impor- 
tant prop  for  Pretoria's  regional  policies  would  diminish  with  the 
Cuban  withdrawal  from  Angola,  South  Africa  actually  prolonged 
Angola's  dependence  on  Soviet  and  Cuban  military  might  by  de- 
railing negotiations  for  Namibian  independence. 

In  1984  South  Africa  and  Angola  agreed  to  end  support  for  each 
other's  rebels  and  work  toward  regional  peace.  This  agreement, 
the  Lusaka  Accord,  was  not  implemented,  however,  as  Pretoria 
continued  incursions  into  Angola,  partly  in  response  to  new  arrivals 
of  Cuban  forces. 

Regional  Accord 

On  December  22,  1988,  after  eight  years  of  negotiations,  Angola, 
Cuba,  and  South  Africa  concluded  a  regional  accord  that  provided 
for  the  removal  of  Cuban  troops  from  Angola.  In  a  series  of  talks 
mediated  by  the  United  States,  the  three  parties  agreed  to  link 
Namibian  independence  from  South  African  rule  to  a  staged  with- 
drawal of  Cuban  troops  from  Angola.  Both  processes  were  to  begin 
in  1989.  Cuban  troops  were  to  move  north  of  the  fifteenth  parallel, 
away  from  the  Namibian  border,  by  August  1,  1989.  All  Cuban 
troops  were  to  be  withdrawn  from  Angolan  territory  by  July  1 , 
1991  (see  Appendix  B). 

The  December  1988  regional  accords  did  not  attempt  to  resolve 
the  ongoing  conflict  between  Angolan  forces  and  UNIT  A.  Rather, 
it  addressed  the  1978  UN  Security  Council  Resolution  435,  which 
called  for  South  African  withdrawal  and  free  elections  in  Namibia 
and  prohibited  further  South  African  incursions  into  Angola.  The 
United  States  promised  continued  support  for  UNITA  until  a  nego- 
tiated truce  and  power- sharing  arrangement  were  accomplished. 

The  December  1988  regional  accords  created  a  joint  commis- 
sion of  representatives  from  Angola,  Cuba,  South  Africa,  the  United 
States,  and  the  Soviet  Union  to  resolve  conflicts  that  threatened 
to  disrupt  its  implementation.  However,  immediate  responsibility 
for  the  accord  lay  primarily  with  the  UN,  which  still  required  an 
enabling  resolution  by  the  Security  Council,  a  funding  resolution 
by  the  General  Assembly,  and  a  concrete  logistical  plan  for  mem- 
ber states  to  establish  and  maintain  a  Namibian  peacekeeping  force 
as  part  of  the  UN  Transition  Assistance  Group  (UNTAG)  called 
for  by  Resolution  435. 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


Angola's  participation  in  the  regional  accords  was  pragmatic. 
The  accords  promised  overall  gains,  but  not  without  costs.  They  en- 
tailed the  eventual  loss  of  Cuban  military  support  for  the  MPLA-PT 
but  countered  this  with  the  possible  benefits  of  improved  relations 
with  South  Africa — primarily  an  end  to  South  African- supported 
insurgency.  The  accords  also  suggested  possible  benefits  from  im- 
proved regional  trade,  membership  in  the  World  Bank  (see  Glos- 
sary) and  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  and 
loans  for  development  purposes.  President  dos  Santos  intended  to 
reduce  Angola's  share  of  the  cost  of  the  Cuban  presence,  to  reduce 
social  tensions  in  areas  where  Cuban  military  units  were  stationed, 
and  to  weaken  UNITA's  argument  that  the  MPLA-PT  had 
allowed  an  occupation  force  to  install  itself  in  Angola.  The  MPLA- 
PT  also  hoped  to  gain  a  friendly  S WAPO  government  in  neigh- 
boring Namibia  and  an  end  to  sanctuary  for  UNITA  forces  in 
Namibian  territory.  (This  goal  was  complicated  by  the  fact  that 
Ovambo  populations  in  southern  Angola  and  Namibia  provided 
the  core  of  SWAPO,  and,  at  the  same  time,  many  Ovambo  peo- 
ple supported  UNITA.) 

As  the  first  Cuban  troops  planned  to  withdraw  from  Angola, 
most  parties  to  the  accords  still  feared  that  it  might  fail.  Angolan 
leaders  worried  that  the  UNITA  insurgency  would  intensify  in  the 
face  of  the  Cuban  withdrawal;  that  UNITA  leaders  might  find  new 
sources  of  external  assistance,  possibly  channeled  through  Zaire; 
and  that  South  African  incursions  into  Angola  might  recur  on  the 
grounds  that  ANC  or  SWAPO  bases  remained  active  in  southern 
Angola.  South  African  negotiators  expressed  the  fear  that  the  Cuban 
troop  withdrawal,  which  could  not  be  accurately  verified,  might 
not  be  complete;  that  Cuban  troops  might  move  into  Zambia  or 
other  neighboring  states,  only  to  return  to  Angola  in  response  to 
UNITA  activity;  or  that  SWAPO  activity  in  Namibia  might  prompt 
new  South  African  assaults  on  Namibian  and  Angolan  territory. 
SWAPO  negotiators,  in  turn,  feared  that  South  Africa  or  some 
of  Namibia's  70,000  whites  might  block  the  elections  guaranteed 
by  UN  Resolution  435,  possibly  bringing  South  African  forces  back 
into  Namibia  and  scuttling  the  entire  accords.  These  and  other 
apprehensions  were  evident  in  late  1988,  but  substantial  hope 
remained  that  all  regional  leaders  supported  the  peace  process  and 
would  work  toward  its  implementation. 

Relations  with  Other  African  States 

Angola  was  wary  of  attempts  at  African  solidarity  during  its  first 
years  of  independence,  an  attitude  that  gave  way  to  a  more  activist 
role  in  southern  Africa  during  the  1980s.  President  Neto  rejected 


195 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

an  offer  of  an  OAU  peacekeeping  force  in  1975,  suspecting  that 
OAU  leaders  would  urge  a  negotiated  settlement  with  UNITA. 
Neto  also  declined  other  efforts  to  find  African  solutions  to  Ango- 
la's instability  and  reduce  the  Soviet  and  Cuban  role  in  the  region. 
A  decade  later,  Angola  had  become  a  leader  among  front-line  states 
(the  others  were  Botswana,  Mozambique,  Tanzania,  Zambia,  and 
Zimbabwe)  seeking  Western  pressure  to  end  regional  destabliza- 
tion  by  Pretoria.  Luanda  also  coordinated  efforts  by  the  Southern 
African  Development  Coordination  Conference  (SADCC)  to  reduce 
the  front-line  states'  economic  dependence  on  South  Africa. 

Angola's  relations  were  generally  good  with  other  African  states 
that  accepted  its  Marxist  policies  and  strained  with  states  that  har- 
bored or  supported  rebel  forces  opposed  to  the  MPLA-PT.  The 
most  consistent  rhetorical  support  for  the  MPLA-PT  came  from 
other  former  Portuguese  states  in  Africa  (Cape  Verde,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Guinea-Bissau,  and  Mozambique). 

Nigeria,  which  led  the  OAU  in  recognizing  the  MPLA-PT 
regime  in  1975,  went  on  to  seek  a  leadership  role  in  the  campaign 
against  South  Africa's  domination  of  the  region,  but  Nigeria  never 
forged  very  close  ties  with  Angola.  Nigeria's  own  economic  difficul- 
ties of  the  1970s  and  1980s,  its  close  relations  with  the  West,  and 
other  cultural  and  political  differences  prevented  Luanda  and  Lagos 
from  forming  a  strong  alliance. 

Zaire's  relations  with  Angola  were  unstable  during  the  1970s 
and  1980s.  Zairian  regular  army  units  supported  the  FNLA  in  the 
years  before  and  just  after  Angolan  independence,  and  Angola  har- 
bored anti-Zairian  rebels,  who  twice  invaded  Zaire's  Shaba  Region 
(formerly  Katanga  Province).  But  Zaire's  President  Mobutu  Sese 
Seko  and  President  Neto  reached  a  rapprochement  before  Neto's 
death  in  1979,  and  Zaire  curtailed  direct  opposition  to  the  MPLA- 
PT.  Nonetheless,  throughout  most  of  the  1980s  UNITA  operated 
freely  across  Zaire's  southwestern  border,  and  Western  support 
for  UNITA  was  channeled  through  Zaire  (see  National  Security 
Environment,  ch.  5).  Complicating  relations  between  these  two 
nations  were  the  numerous  ethnic  groups  whose  homelands  had 
been  divided  by  the  boundary  between  Zaire  and  Angola  a  cen- 
tury earlier.  The  Bakongo,  Lunda,  Chokwe,  and  many  smaller 
groups  maintained  long-standing  cultural,  economic,  and  religious 
ties  with  relatives  in  neighboring  states.  These  ties  often  extended 
to  support  for  antigovernment  rebels. 

Zambia,  which  had  officially  ousted  UNITA  bands  from  its 
western  region  in  1976,  voiced  strong  support  for  the  MPLA-PT 
at  the  same  time  that  it  turned  a  blind  eye  to  financial  and  logisti- 
cal support  for  UNITA  by  Zambian  citizens.  Without  official 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


approval,  but  also  without  interference,  UNITA  forces  continued 
to  train  in  Zambia's  western  region.  Lusaka's  ambivalence  toward 
Angola  during  the  1980s  took  into  account  the  possibility  of  an  even- 
tual UNITA  role  in  the  government  in  Luanda.  Both  Zambia  and 
Zaire  had  an  interest  in  seeing  an  end  to  Angola's  civil  war  be- 
cause the  flow  of  refugees  from  Angola  had  reached  several  hundred 
thousand  by  the  mid-1980s.  Peace  would  also  enable  Zambia  and 
Zaire  to  upgrade  the  Benguela  Railway  as  an  alternative  to  South 
African  transport  systems. 

Elsewhere  in  the  region,  relations  with  Angola  varied.  Strained 
relations  arose  at  times  with  Congo,  where  both  FNLA  and  Cabin- 
dan  rebels  had  close  cultural  ties  and  some  semi-official  encourage- 
ment. Senegal,  Togo,  Malawi,  and  Somalia  were  among  the 
relatively  conservative  African  states  that  provided  material  sup- 
port to  UNITA  during  the  1980s.  Throughout  most  of  the  decade, 
UNITA  also  received  financial  assistance  from  several  North  Afri- 
can states,  including  Morocco,  Tunisia,  and  Egypt,  and  these 
governments  (along  with  Kuwait  and  Saudi  Arabia)  pressured  their 
African  trading  partners  and  client  states  to  limit  their  support  of 
the  MPLA-PT. 

Communist  Nations 

The  Soviet  Union  supported  the  MPLA-PT  as  a  liberation  move- 
ment before  independence  and  formalized  its  relationship  with  the 
MPLA-PT  government  through  the  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Cooperation  and  a  series  of  military  agreements  beginning  in  1975. 
Once  it  became  clear  that  the  MPLA-PT  could,  with  Cuban  sup- 
port, remain  in  power,  the  Soviet  Union  provided  economic  and 
technical  assistance  and  granted  Angola  most-favored-nation  sta- 
tus (see  Foreign  Trade  and  Assistance,  ch.  3). 

The  support  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  included  diplo- 
matic representations  at  the  UN  and  in  other  international  forums, 
military  hardware  and  advisers,  and  more  direct  military  support 
in  the  face  of  South  African  incursions  into  Angola.  Civilian  tech- 
nical assistance  extended  to  hydroelectric  projects,  bridge  build- 
ing and  road  building,  agriculture,  fisheries,  public  health,  and 
a  variety  of  educational  projects.  Technical  assistance  was  often 
channeled  through  joint  projects  with  a  third  country — for  exam- 
ple, the  Capanda  hydroelectric  project  entailed  cooperation  between 
the  Soviet  Union  and  Brazil. 

Soviet- Angolan  relations  were  strained  at  times  during  the  1980s, 
however,  in  part  because  Angola  sought  to  upgrade  diplomatic  ties 
with  the  United  States.  Soviet  leadership  factions  were  divided  over 
their  nation's  future  role  in  Africa,  and  some  Soviet  negotiators 


197 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


objected  to  dos  Santos's  concessions  to  the  United  States  on  the 
issue  of  "linkage."  The  region's  intractable  political  problems,  and 
the  cost  of  maintaining  Cuban  troop  support  and  equipping  the 
MPLA-PT,  weakened  the  Soviet  commitment  to  the  building  of 
a  Marxist-Leninist  state  in  Angola. 

Angolan  leaders,  in  turn,  complained  about  Soviet  neglect — 
low  levels  of  assistance,  poor-quality  personnel  and  materiel,  and 
inadequate  responses  to  complaints.  Angola  shared  the  cost  of  the 
Cuban  military  presence  and  sought  to  reduce  these  expenses,  in 
part  because  many  Angolan  citizens  felt  the  immediate  drain  on 
economic  resources  and  rising  tensions  in  areas  occupied  by  Cuban 
troops.  Moreover,  dos  Santos  complained  that  the  Soviet  Union 
dealt  with  Angola  opportunistically — purchasing  Angolan  coffee 
at  low  prices  and  reexporting  it  at  a  substantial  profit,  overfishing 
in  Angolan  waters,  and  driving  up  local  food  prices. 

For  the  first  decade  after  independence,  trade  with  communist 
states  was  not  significant,  but  in  the  late  1980s  dos  Santos  sought 
expanded  economic  ties  with  the  Soviet  Union,  China,  and 
Czechoslovakia  and  other  nations  of  Eastern  Europe  as  the  MPLA- 
PT  attempted  to  diversify  its  economic  relations  and  reduce  its 
dependence  on  the  West.  In  October  1986,  Angola  signed  a  cooper- 
ative agreement  with  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(Comecon  or  CMEA),  a  consortium  dedicated  to  economic  cooper- 
ation among  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies. 

As  part  of  the  Comecon  agreement,  Soviet  support  for  Angolan 
educational  and  training  programs  was  increased.  In  1987  approxi- 
mately 1,800  Angolan  students  attended  institutions  of  higher  edu- 
cation in  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Soviet  Union  also  provided  about 
100  lecturers  to  Agostinho  Neto  University  in  Luanda,  and  a  var- 
iety of  Soviet-sponsored  training  programs  operated  in  Angola,  most 
with  Cuban  instructors.  Approximately  4,000  Angolans  studied 
at  the  international  school  on  Cuba's  renowned  Isle  of  Youth.  More 
Angolan  students  were  scheduled  to  attend  the  Union  of  Young 
Communists'  School  in  Havana  in  1989.  Czechoslovakia  granted 
scholarships  to  forty-four  Angolan  students  in  1987,  and  during 
that  year  Czechoslovakia  and  the  German  Democratic  Republic 
(East  Germany)  also  provided  training  for  about  150  Angolan 
industrial  workers. 

Cuba's  presence  in  Angola  was  more  complex  than  it  appeared 
to  outsiders  who  viewed  the  Soviet  Union's  Third  World  clients 
as  little  more  than  surrogates  for  their  powerful  patron.  The  in- 
itiative in  placing  Cuban  troops  in  Angola  in  the  mid-1970s  was 
taken  by  President  Fidel  Castro  as  part  of  his  avowed  mission  of 
"Cuban  internationalism."  Facing  widespread  unemployment  at 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


home,  young  Cuban  men  were  urged  to  serve  in  the  military  over- 
seas as  their  patriotic  duty,  and  veterans  enjoyed  great  prestige  on 
their  return.  Castro  also  raised  the  possibility  of  a  Cuban  resettle- 
ment scheme  in  southern  Angola,  and  several  hundred  Cubans 
received  Angolan  citizenship  during  the  1980s.  Cuban  immigra- 
tion increased  sharply  in  1988.  In  addition  to  military  support,  Cuba 
provided  Angola  with  several  thousand  teachers,  physicians,  and 
civilian  laborers  for  construction,  agriculture,  and  industry. 
Angolan  dependence  on  Cuban  medical  personnel  was  so  complete 
that  during  the  1980s  Spanish  became  known  as  the  language  of 
medicine. 

China's  relations  with  Angola  were  complicated  by  Beijing's 
opposition  to  both  Soviet  and  United  States  policies  toward  Afri- 
ca. China  supported  the  FNLA  and  UNITA  after  the  MPLA  seized 
power  in  Angola,  and  China  provided  military  support  to  Zaire 
when  Zairian  troops  clashed  with  Angolan  forces  along  their  com- 
mon border  in  the  late  1970s.  China  nonetheless  took  the  initia- 
tive in  improving  relations  with  the  MPLA-PT  during  the  1980s. 
The  two  states  established  diplomatic  ties  in  1983. 

United  States  and  Western  Europe 

Angola's  relations  with  the  United  States  were  ambivalent.  The 
United  States  aided  the  FNLA  and  UNITA  before  independence. 
During  most  of  1976,  the  United  States  blocked  Angola's  admis- 
sion to  the  UN,  and  in  late  1988  the  two  nations  still  lacked  diplo- 
matic ties.  United  States  representatives  pressured  Luanda  to  reduce 
its  military  reliance  on  Cuba  and  the  Soviet  Union,  made  neces- 
sary in  part  by  United  States  and  South  African  opposition  to  the 
MPLA-PT  and  support  for  UNITA.  In  1988  Angola's  govern- 
ment news  agency  quoted  Minister  of  Foreign  Relations  Afonso 
Van  Dunem  (nom  de  guerre  Mbinda)  as  saying  the  United  States 
had  a  "Cuban  psychosis"  that  prevented  it  from  engaging  in  talks 
about  Namibia  and  Angola.  Nevertheless,  after  the  December  1988 
regional  accords  to  end  the  Cuban  military  presence  in  Angola, 
United  States  officials  offered  to  normalize  relations  with  Angola 
on  the  condition  that  an  internal  settlement  of  the  civil  war  with 
UNITA  be  reached. 

Political  and  diplomatic  differences  between  the  United  States 
and  Angola  were  generally  mitigated  by  close  economic  ties.  Ameri- 
can oil  companies  operating  in  Cabinda  provided  a  substantial  por- 
tion of  Angola's  export  earnings  and  foreign  exchange,  and  this 
relationship  continued  despite  political  pressures  on  these  com- 
panies to  reduce  their  holdings  in  Cabinda  in  the  mid-1980s. 
The  divergence  of  private  economic  interests  from  United  States 


199 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

diplomatic  policy  was  complicated  by  differences  of  opinion  among 
American  policymakers.  By  means  of  the  Clark  Amendment,  from 
1975  to  1985  the  United  States  Congress  prohibited  aid  to  UNITA 
and  slowed  covert  attempts  to  circumvent  this  legislation.  After  the 
repeal  of  the  Clark  Amendment  in  1985,  however,  trade  between 
Angola  and  the  United  States  continued  to  increase,  and  Cuban 
and  Angolan  troops  attempted  to  prevent  sabotage  against  United 
States  interests  by  UNITA  and  South  African  commandos. 

Western  Europe,  like  the  United  States,  feared  the  implications 
of  a  strong  Soviet  client  state  in  southern  Africa,  but  in  general 
European  relations  with  the  MPLA-PT  were  based  on  economic 
interests  rather  than  ideology.  France  and  Portugal  maintained  good 
relations  with  the  MPLA-PT  at  the  same  time  that  they  provided 
financial  assistance  for  UNITA  and  allowed  UNITA  representa- 
tives to  operate  freely  in  their  capitals.  Portugal  was  Angola's  lead- 
ing trading  partner  throughout  most  of  the  1980s,  and  Brazil, 
another  Lusophone  state,  strengthened  economic  ties  with  Angola 
during  this  period. 

*    *  * 

John  A.  Marcum's  two-volume  series,  The  Angolan  Revolution, 
analyzes  historical  trends  in  Angolan  politics  and  society  from  the 
early  colonial  struggle  through  the  early  years  of  independence. 
Marcum  also  views  the  postwar  environment  and  its  political 
implications  in  "Angola:  Twenty-five  Years  of  War,"  and  he  ana- 
lyzes obstacles  to  the  socialist  transformation  in  "The  People's 
Republic  of  Angola."  Keith  Somerville's  Angola:  Politics,  Econom- 
ics, and  Society  provides  an  extensive  discussion  of  Angola's  variant 
of  Marxism-Leninism  and  raises  the  question  of  its  implications 
for  the  rural  majority  of  Angolan  people.  Kenneth  W.  Grundy's 
"The  Angolan  Puzzle"  assesses  Angolan  prospects  for  peace  in 
1987  in  the  context  of  the  regional  struggle. 

Gerald  J.  Bender  analyzes  Angola's  contemporary  predicament 
from  a  historical  perspective  in  "American  Policy  Toward  Ango- 
la" and  "The  Continuing  Crisis  in  Angola."  Catherine  V.  Scott, 
in  "Socialism  and  the  'Soft  State'  in  Africa,"  compares  1980s 
political  developments  in  these  two  Marxist  states  in  southern 
Africa.  Tony  Hodges' s  Angola  to  the  1990s,  essentially  an  economic 
analysis,  also  contains  insight  into  political  trends.  Fred  Bridgland's 
"The  Future  of  Angola"  and  Jonas  Savimbi  provide  critical  views 
of  MPLA-PT  rule,  while  Fola  Soremekun's  chapter  on  Angola 
in  The  Political  Economy  oj African  Foreign  Policy,  edited  by  Timothy 
M.  Shaw  and  Olajide  Aluko,  and  Angola's  Political  Economy  by 


200 


Government  and  Politics 

M.R.  Bhagavan  view  Angola's  1980s  leadership  from  a  more 
favorable  perspective.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


201 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


An  elderly  member  of  the  People's  Vigilance  Brigades 


IN  THE  LATE  1980s,  ANGOLA  was  a  nation  at  war,  still  strug- 
gling to  escape  the  legacy  that  one  standard  history  has  character- 
ized as  "five  centuries  of  conflict."  Since  the  1960s,  Angola  had 
experienced,  sometimes  simultaneously,  four  types  of  war:  a  war  of 
national  liberation,  a  civil  war,  a  regional  war,  and  the  global  strug- 
gle between  the  superpowers.  Angola  had  won  its  independence 
from  Portugal  in  1975  after  a  thirteen-year  liberation  struggle, 
during  which  the  externally  supported  African  nationalist  move- 
ments splintered  and  subdivided.  However,  independence  provided 
no  respite,  as  the  new  nation  was  immediately  engulfed  in  a  civil 
war  whose  scope  and  effects  were  compounded  by  foreign  military 
intervention.  Although  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation 
of  Angola  (Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — MPLA) 
eventually  won  recognition  as  the  legitimate  government,  it  did 
so  only  with  massive  Soviet  and  Cuban  military  support,  on  which 
it  remained  heavily  dependent  in  late  1988. 

Despite  the  party's  international  acceptance  and  domestic 
hegemony,  Angola  in  the  late  1980s  remained  at  war  with  itself 
and  its  most  powerful  neighbor,  South  Africa.  The  insurgency  led 
by  the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola  (Uniao 
Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA),  bol- 
stered by  growing  foreign  support,  spread  from  the  remote  and 
sparsely  populated  southeast  corner  of  the  country  throughout  the 
entire  nation.  South  African  interventions  on  behalf  of  UNITA 
and  against  black  South  African  and  Namibian  nationalist  forces 
in  southern  Angola  also  escalated.  Luanda's  reliance  on  the  Soviet 
Union,  Cuba,  and  other  communist  states  for  internal  security  and 
defense  increased  as  these  threats  intensified.  Intermittent  diplo- 
matic efforts  since  the  late  1970s  had  failed  to  end  the  protracted 
war;  indeed,  each  new  initiative  had  been  followed  by  an  escala- 
tion of  violence. 

Nonetheless,  a  turning  point  in  this  history  of  conflict  may  have 
been  reached  in  1988.  After  the  warring  parties  clashed  in  the  early 
part  of  that  year  at  Cuito  Cuanavale,  in  Africa's  largest  land  bat- 
de  since  World  War  II,  the  exhausted  parties  succeeded  in  negotiat- 
ing a  regional  peace  agreement  brokered  by  Chester  A.  Crocker, 
the  United  States  assistant  secretary  of  state  for  African  affairs. 
On  July  13,  representatives  of  Angola,  Cuba,  and  South  Africa 
initialed  an  agreement  on  a  "set  of  essential  principles  to  estab- 
lish the  basis  for  peace  in  the  southwestern  region  of  Africa." 


205 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

They  signed  a  cease-fire  agreement  on  August  22,  to  be  overseen 
by  their  Joint  Military  Monitoring  Commission.  Finally,  their 
trilateral  accord  of  December  22  provided  for  South  African  mili- 
tary withdrawal  and  cessation  of  assistance  to  UNIT  A;  the  phased 
removal  of  Cuban  forces  from  Angola  over  a  twenty-seven-month 
period  ending  on  July  1,  1991;  termination  of  Angolan  assistance 
to  African  National  Congress  (ANC)  exiles  in  the  country;  and 
South  African  withdrawal  from  Namibia  coupled  with  indepen- 
dence for  that  territory  under  United  Nations-supervised  elections 
(see  Appendix  B).  Although  UNITA  was  not  a  party  to  this  historic 
regional  peace  agreement,  it  was  hoped  that  internal  peace  based 
on  national  reconciliation  would  also  ensue.  Whether  the  trilateral 
accord  would  be  honored  and  whether  Angolans  would  make  peace 
among  themselves  were  crucial  issues  in  late  1988.  History  sug- 
gested that  this  would  be  but  a  brief  respite  from  endemic  conflict, 
but  the  promise  of  a  future  free  of  conflict  may  have  provided  the 
impetus  to  break  with  the  burden  of  the  past. 

National  Security  Environment 

Although  Angola's  boundaries  with  neighboring  states  were  not 
disputed,  the  country's  geopolitical  position  heavily  affected  national 
security.  Luanda  enjoyed  fraternal  relations  with  Congo  and  Zam- 
bia, but  sporadic  antagonism  characterized  the  regime's  relations 
with  Zaire.  Since  Pretoria's  intervention  in  the  civil  war  of  1975-76, 
an  undeclared  state  of  war  had  existed  with  South  Africa,  which 
occupied  Namibia,  the  territory  to  the  south  of  Angola  (see  fig.  1). 

Relations  with  Zaire,  with  which  Angola  shares  its  longest  border, 
had  been  punctuated  by  hostility  since  the  1960s,  when  Zaire's 
President  Mobutu  Sese  Seko  sponsored  and  provided  sanctuary 
to  an  MPLA  rival,  the  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Ango- 
la (Frente  Nacional  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA),  and  to  the 
separatist  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Enclave  of  Cabinda  (Frente 
para  a  Libertacao  do  Enclave  de  Cabinda — FLEC).  Although  there 
had  been  no  conflicts  over  the  positioning  of  the  border  itself,  the 
direct  intervention  of  regular  Zairian  forces  in  Angola  on  behalf 
of  the  FNLA  in  September  1975  exacerbated  the  three-way  civil 
war  and  attendant  intrusions  by  South  African,  Soviet,  and  Cuban 
forces. 

Despite  a  February  1976  accord  in  which  the  Angolan  and  Zairi- 
an governments  renounced  further  hostilities,  Zaire  not  only  con- 
tinued to  provide  sanctuary  and  assistance  to  the  FNLA,  which 
made  periodic  raids  into  Angola,  but  also  facilitated  FLEC  attacks 
on  Angola's  oil-rich  Cabinda  Province.  Aircraft  based  in  Zaire  also 
violated  Angolan  airspace,  occasionally  bombing  villages  on  the 


206 


National  Security 


northern  border.  In  retaliation,  in  1977  and  1979  Luanda  allowed 
Katangan  dissidents  based  in  Angola  to  invade  Zaire's  Shaba 
Region  (formerly  Katanga  Province),  from  which  they  were  repelled 
only  after  the  intervention  of  Egyptian,  Moroccan,  French,  and 
Belgian  forces  (see  Angola  as  a  Refuge,  this  ch.). 

Having  apparently  evened  their  scores,  Angola  and  Zaire  nor- 
malized relations  in  1978,  and  the  two  erstwhile  antagonists  entered 
into  a  nonaggression  pact  with  Zambia  in  1979.  In  February  1985, 
Luanda  and  Kinshasa  signed  a  security  and  defense  pact  includ- 
ing mutual  pledges  not  to  allow  the  use  of  their  territory  for  attacks 
on  each  other;  the  two  governments  also  set  up  a  joint  defense  and 
security  commission  to  develop  border  security  arrangements.  In 
July  1986,  Angola  and  Zaire  set  up  joint  working  groups  and  re- 
gional commissions  to  implement  their  pledges,  and  in  August  1988 
they  signed  a  border  security  pact. 

Despite  normalization  and  border  security  agreements,  Angolan- 
Zairian  relations  remained  strained  and  fraught  with  inconsistencies 
in  the  late  1980s.  The  two  countries  could  not  effectively  con- 
trol their  2,285-kilometer  border,  which  UNITA  forces  continued 
to  cross  freely.  Furthermore,  Kinshasa  continued  indirect  support 
of  UNITA,  particularly  after  1986,  by  permitting  United  States 
use  of  the  Kamina  airbase  in  Shaba  Region  to  deliver  military  aid 
to  the  insurgents  and  to  train  them  in  the  use  of  new  weapons. 
Despite  numerous  diplomatic  and  media  reports  of  Zaire's  involve- 
ment in  logistical  support  of  UNITA,  Kinshasa  persisted  in  deny- 
ing the  charges. 

Zaire's  erratic  behavior  did  not  constitute  a  direct  threat  to 
Angola.  The  activities  of  South  Africa,  however,  were  another  mat- 
ter. Whereas  Zaire  had  limited  itself  to  using  its  strategic  location 
to  support  insurgencies  against  the  Angolan  government,  Pretoria 
had  the  means  to  sponsor  guerrilla  resistance  and  to  wage  protracted 
war.  In  order  to  defend  the  1,376-kilometer  Angolan  border  with 
occupied  Namibia  against  infiltration  by  South  West  Africa  Peo- 
ple's Organization  (SWAPO)  guerrillas  based  in  Angola,  South 
African  forces  cleared  a  one-kilometer-wide  strip  along  nearly  half 
the  border's  length.  The  Ovambo  people,  SWAPO 's  main  base 
of  ethnic  support,  straddled  the  border,  facilitating  SWAPO 's  move- 
ments and  recruitment  efforts  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages, 
ch.  2). 

Starting  in  the  late  1970s,  South  Africa  had  engaged  in  an 
escalating  series  of  air  and  ground  raids  and  prolonged  operations 
in  southern  Angola  against  SWAPO  and  in  defense  of  UNITA. 
The  South  African  Defense  Force  (SADF)  occupied  parts  of  south- 
ern Angola  between  August  1981  and  April  1985.  During  and 


207 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

after  that  period,  it  undertook  frequent  air  and  ground  attacks, 
hot  pursuit  operations,  preemptive  raids  against  SWAPO  bases, 
and  major  interventions  against  Angolan  armed  forces  on  behalf 
of  UNITA.  In  fact,  large-scale  South  African  air  and  ground  attacks 
on  Angolan  government  forces  in  1985,  1987,  and  1988  reversed 
the  momentum  of  Luanda's  offensives  and  saved  UNITA  from 
almost  certain  defeat.  South  Africa  finally  withdrew  its  troops  from 
Angola  in  September  1988  under  the  terms  of  the  United  States- 
brokered  peace  plan.  South  Africa  had  also  provided  UNITA  with 
massive  arms  and  logistical  support,  which  was  to  be  terminated 
under  the  tripartite  regional  peace  accord  (see  Regional  Politics, 
ch.  4). 

To  bolster  its  regional  position,  Luanda  sought  to  regularize  and 
strengthen  its  security  ties  with  neighboring  states.  In  addition  to 
its  nonaggression  and  border  pacts  with  Zaire,  Angola  employed 
regular  consultation,  coordination,  and  cooperation  with  Botswana, 
Mozambique,  Tanzania,  Zambia,  and  Zimbabwe  in  an  effort  to 
enhance  regional  security.  These  ties  were  reinforced  through 
bilateral  defense  accords  with  Tanzania  and  Mozambique  signed 
in  May  1988  and  July  1988,  respectively.  A  defense  pact  with  Zam- 
bia was  also  reported  to  have  been  signed  in  March  1988,  but  this 
report  was  denied  by  the  Zambian  government. 

Evolution  of  the  Armed  Forces 
Background 

Throughout  history,  relationships  based  on  conflict,  conquest, 
and  exploitation  existed  among  the  Angolan  peoples  as  well  as 
between  Angolans  and  their  Portuguese  colonizers.  Following  the 
initial  contacts  in  the  1480s  between  Portugal  and  the  Kongo  and 
Ndongo  kingdoms,  relations  were  peaceful.  However,  by  the  ear- 
ly sixteenth  century  Angolans  were  enslaving  Angolans  for  the  pur- 
pose of  trading  them  for  Portuguese  goods.  This  commerce  in 
human  beings  stimulated  a  series  of  wars  (see  Precolonial  Angola 
and  the  Arrival  of  the  Portuguese,  ch.  1).  The  Portuguese  eventu- 
ally intervened  militarily  in  the  kingdoms'  affairs  and  subsequently 
conquered  and  colonized  Kongo  and  Ndongo.  Whereas  warfare 
among  Africans  traditionally  had  been  limited  in  purpose,  scale, 
intensity,  duration,  and  destructiveness,  the  wars  of  slavery  and 
Portuguese  conquest  were  conducted  with  few  restraints. 

Intra- African  and  Portuguese- African  warfare  continued  from 
the  seventeenth  to  the  nineteenth  century,  as  the  slave  and  fire- 
arms trade  penetrated  the  hinterland  and  Portugal  attempted  to 
extend  its  territorial  control  and  mercantile  interests.  War  and 


208 


National  Security 


commerce  were  the  principal  occupations  of  the  Portuguese  set- 
tlers, who  represented  the  worst  elements  of  their  own  society.  Por- 
tugal was  the  first  European  nation  to  use  deported  convicts 
{degredados — see  Glossary)  to  explore,  conquer,  and  exploit  an  over- 
seas empire.  But  unlike  other  European  penal  exiles,  who  were 
mostly  impoverished  petty  criminals,  these  Portuguese  exiles  were 
the  most  serious  offenders.  By  the  mid-seventeenth  century,  vir- 
tually all  non- African  army,  police,  and  commercial  activities  were 
dominated  by  the  degredados.  Indeed,  until  the  early  twentieth  cen- 
tury the  great  majority  of  Portuguese  in  Angola  were  exiled  con- 
victs (see  Setdement,  Conquest,  and  Development,  ch.  1). 

During  the  nineteenth  century,  the  degredados  expanded  and  con- 
solidated their  hold  on  the  political,  military,  and  economic  life 
of  the  territory.  In  1822  degredado  renegades  joined  garrison  troops 
in  Luanda  in  revolting  against  the  Portuguese  governor  and  set- 
ting up  a  junta.  The  degredados  comprised  the  bulk  of  the  Portuguese 
resident  military  and  police  forces,  both  of  which  engaged  in  plunder 
and  extortion.  In  the  1870s,  there  were  about  3,600  Portuguese 
officers  and  men  stationed  in  Angola,  and  this  number  increased 
to  4,900  by  the  turn  of  the  century.  These  were  supplemented  by 
African  soldiers,  auxiliaries,  and  Boer  immigrants. 

In  contrast  to  the  earlier  pattern  of  episodic  military  campaigns 
with  transient  effect,  the  early  twentieth  century  brought  systematic 
conquest  and  the  imposition  of  direct  colonial  rule.  Taxation,  forced 
labor,  and  intensified  military  recruitment  were  introduced. 
Although  Portuguese  policy  officially  permitted  the  assimilation  of 
Africans,  virtually  all  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers 
remained  white  or  mestigo  (see  Glossary).  During  the  dictatorship 
of  Antonio  Salazar  (1932-68),  the  Portuguese  army  in  Angola  was 
60  percent  to  80  percent  African,  but  not  a  single  black  Ango- 
lan achieved  officer  rank  (see  Angola  under  the  Salazar  Regime, 
ch.  1). 

Independence  Struggle,  Civil  War,  and  Intervention 

When  the  African  nationalist  revolt  erupted  in  early  1961,  the 
Portuguese  army  in  Angola  numbered  about  8,000  men,  5,000  of 
whom  were  African.  The  colonial  forces  responded  brutally,  and 
by  the  end  of  the  summer  they  had  regained  control  over  most  of 
the  territory.  The  human  cost,  however,  was  enormous:  more  than 
2,000  Europeans  and  up  to  50,000  Africans  died,  and  about  10  per- 
cent of  Angola's  African  population  fled  to  Zaire.  By  early  1962, 
the  Portuguese  army  in  Angola  had  grown  to  50,000  and  there- 
after averaged  60,000  into  the  mid-1970s.  About  half  of  this  expan- 
sion was  achieved  by  conscription  in  Angola,  and  most  conscripts 


209 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

were  Africans.  The  Portuguese  established  a  counterinsurgency  pro- 
gram of  population  resettlement  throughout  the  country.  By  the 
mid-1970s,  more  than  1  million  peasants  had  been  relocated  into 
strategic  settlements,  and  30,000  males  had  been  impressed  into 
service  in  lightly  armed  militia  units  to  defend  them. 

The  thirteen-year  Angolan  war  for  independence,  in  which  three 
rival  nationalist  groups  fought  the  Portuguese  to  a  stalemate,  end- 
ed after  the  April  1974  military  coup  in  Portugal.  At  that  time, 
the  MPLA  and  the  FNLA  had  an  estimated  10,000  guerrillas  each, 
and  UNITA  had  about  2,000.  Within  a  year,  these  groups  had 
become  locked  in  a  complex  armed  struggle  for  supremacy.  By 
November  1975,  when  independence  under  a  three-way  coalition 
government  was  scheduled,  the  MPLA  and  the  FNLA  had  built 
up  their  armies  to  27,000  and  22,000,  respectively,  while  UNITA 
had  mustered  some  8,000  to  10,000.  Further  complicating  the  sit- 
uation was  a  substantial  foreign  military  presence.  Although  the 
Portuguese  forces  numbered  only  3,000  to  4,000  by  late  1975,  some 
2,000  to  3,000  Cubans  had  arrived  in  support  of  the  MPLA,  from 
1,000  to  2,000  Zairian  regulars  had  crossed  the  border  to  aid  the 
FNLA,  and  4,000  to  5,000  SADF  troops  had  intervened  on  behalf 
of  UNITA.  The  civil  war  was  soon  decided  in  favor  of  the  MPLA 
by  virtue  of  the  massive  influx  of  Soviet  weapons  and  advisers  and 
Cuban  troops. 

The  Development  of  FAPLA 

In  the  early  1960s,  the  MPLA  named  its  guerrilla  forces  the  Peo- 
ple's Army  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Exercito  Popular  de  Liber- 
tacao  de  Angola — EPLA).  Many  of  its  first  cadres  had  received 
training  in  Morocco  and  Algeria.  In  January  1963,  in  one  of  its 
early  operations,  the  EPLA  attacked  a  Portuguese  military  post 
in  Cabinda,  killing  a  number  of  troops.  During  the  mid-1960s  and 
early  1970s,  the  EPLA  operated  very  successfully  from  bases  in 
Zambia  against  the  Portuguese  in  eastern  Angola.  After  1972, 
however,  the  EPLA's  effectiveness  declined  following  several  Por- 
tuguese victories,  disputes  with  FNLA  forces,  and  the  movement 
of  about  800  guerrillas  from  Zambia  to  Congo. 

On  August  1,  1974,  a  few  months  after  a  military  coup  d'etat 
had  overthrown  the  Lisbon  regime  and  proclaimed  its  intention 
of  granting  independence  to  Angola,  the  MPLA  announced  the 
formation  of  the  People's  Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 
(Forcas  Armadas  Populares  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FAPLA), 
which  replaced  the  EPLA.  By  1976  FAPLA  had  been  transformed 
from  lightly  armed  guerrilla  units  into  a  national  army  capable  of 
sustained  field  operations.  This  transformation  was  gradual  until 


210 


Government  recruits  learning  the  mechanics  of  an  AK-47  assault  rifle 

Courtesy  United  Nations  (J.  P.  Laffont) 

the  Soviet-Cuban  intervention  and  ensuing  UNITA  insurgency, 
when  the  sudden  and  large-scale  inflow  of  heavy  weapons  and 
accompanying  technicians  and  advisers  quickened  the  pace  of 
institutional  change. 

Unlike  African  states  that  acceded  to  independence  by  an  or- 
derly and  peaceful  process  of  institutional  transfer,  Angola  inherited 
a  disintegrating  colonial  state  whose  army  was  in  retreat.  Although 
Mozambique's  situation  was  similar  in  some  respects,  the  con- 
fluence of  civil  war,  foreign  intervention,  and  large-scale  insurgency 
made  Angola's  experience  unique.  After  independence,  FAPLA 
had  to  reorganize  for  conventional  war  and  counterinsurgency 
simultaneously  and  immediately  to  continue  the  new  war  with  South 
Africa  and  UNITA.  Ironically,  a  guerrilla  army  that  conducted 
a  successful  insurgency  for  more  than  a  decade  came  to  endure 
the  same  kind  of  exhausting  struggle  for  a  similar  period. 

Armed  Forces 

Constitutional  and  Political  Context 

The  Angolan  Constitution  provides  a  framework  for  both  inter- 
national and  national  security  policies.  Article  16  establishes  the 
country's  official  policy  of  military  nonalignment  and  prohibits 
the  construction  of  foreign  military  bases  on  Angolan  territory. 
Reflecting  its  concern  for  territorial  unity  and  the  status  of  Cabinda 


211 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Province  as  an  integral  part  of  the  national  homeland,  Article  4 
also  provides  that  "any  attempt  to  separate  or  dismember"  any 
territory  will  be  "forcefully  combated."  The  president,  under 
Article  6,  is  designated  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces 
and  in  Article  53  is  also  given  extraordinary  powers  to  declare  a 
state  of  emergency  or  a  state  of  siege,  to  declare  war,  and  to  make 
peace. 

The  government's  organization  for  security  and  defense  reflected 
both  ideological  and  national  security  considerations  in  its  inter- 
locking network  of  party,  government,  and  military  officials.  The 
Council  of  the  Revolution,  which  performed  both  executive  and 
legislative  functions  before  1980,  included  the  minister  of  defense, 
the  chief  of  the  general  staff,  and  regional  military  commanders. 
In  the  first  national  People's  Assembly  (national  legislature),  which 
in  1980  replaced  the  Council  of  the  Revolution  as  the  supreme  organ 
of  state,  defense  and  security  personnel  constituted  10  percent  of 
the  membership  (see  Structure  of  Government,  ch.  4). 

Since  the  early  days  of  the  liberation  struggle,  the  MPLA  had 
recognized  the  need  for  firm  political  direction  of  FAPLA.  Politi- 
cal control  was  established  and  maintained  by  two  complementary 
means:  political  indoctrination  and  institutional  penetration  and 
subordination.  Political  education  was  an  integral  part  of  FAPLA 's 
military  training,  and  political  commissars  were  attached  to  guer- 
rilla units  to  ensure  compliance  with  party  directives. 

MPLA  politicization  and  controls  were  formalized  and  expand- 
ed after  the  transformation  of  FAPLA  into  a  conventional  army 
during  1975  and  1976.  Many  of  the  independence  leaders  contin- 
ued to  hold  concurrent  positions  in  the  party,  government,  and 
military  establishment.  At  the  regional  level,  the  overlaying  of 
military  and  political  leadership  was  also  common,  as  many  of 
the  provincial  commissars  were  both  MPLA  Central  Commit- 
tee members  and  FAPLA  lieutenant  colonels.  Within  the  armed 
forces,  political  commissars  in  each  unit  reported  not  to  the  mili- 
tary chain  of  command  but  to  the  political  leadership  of  the  region 
or  province. 

Extensive  politicization  of  the  military  by  institutional  means  did 
not  preclude  the  possibility  of  military  intervention  in  politics.  In 
1977  Nito  Alves  led  an  abortive  coup  in  which  several  MPLA  and 
FAPLA  leaders  were  killed.  In  the  aftermath,  Alves 's  supporters 
were  executed  or  purged,  and  the  top  military  and  political  posts 
in  the  armed  forces  were  assigned  to  loyalists:  David  Antonio  Moises 
was  appointed  FAPLA  chief  of  the  general  staff,  and  Juliao  Mateus 
Paulo  (nom  de  guerre  Dino  Matross)  became  FAPLA  national 
political  commissar. 


212 


National  Security 


The  interpenetration  of  the  MPLA  and  FAPLA  was  maintained 
throughout  both  organizations'  hierarchies.  In  1983,  six  years  after 
the  MPLA  had  designated  itself  a  ''workers'  party"  (Partido  de 
Trabalho;  henceforth  the  party  was  known  as  the  MPLA-PT),  a 
series  of  party  committee  seminars  for  the  political  organs  of  the 
defense  and  security  forces  was  inaugurated  by  Paulo,  then  Cen- 
tral Committee  secretary  for  defense  and  security.  The  purpose 
of  these  seminars  was  to  review  the  implementation  of  party  direc- 
tives and  structures  within  the  armed  forces.  In  1985  seminar  mem- 
bers recommended  that  the  party's  provincial  departments  of 
defense  and  security  implement  the  1984  directive  to  award  mem- 
bership to  armed  forces  veterans  and  disabled  soldiers  and  that  the 
local  party  and  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola- 
Youth  Movement  (Juventude  do  Movimento  Popular  de  Liberta- 
cao  de  Angola — JMPLA)  participate  more  actively  in  defense  and 
security.  For  its  part,  FAPLA  had  a  political  directorate  that  main- 
tained party  liaison  and  supervision. 

In  the  1980s,  the  need  for  total  mobilization  and  coordination 
of  the  nation's  resources  to  combat  the  escalating  UNITA  insur- 
gency and  South  African  intervention  led  to  reorganizations  of 
both  the  central  and  the  provincial  governments.  President  Jose 
Eduardo  dos  Santos  created  the  Defense  and  Security  Council  under 
his  chairmanship  in  April  1984  to  plan  and  coordinate  national  secu- 
rity policy.  Originally,  the  council  included  the  ministers  of  defense, 
state  security,  and  interior;  the  FAPLA  chief  of  the  general  staff; 
and  the  party  Central  Committee  secretary  for  ideology,  informa- 
tion, and  culture  as  an  ex  officio  member.  In  May  1986,  the  Defense 
and  Security  Council  expanded  to  include  the  ministers  of  state  for 
inspection  and  control,  for  the  productive  sphere,  and  for  econom- 
ic and  social  spheres,  posts  that  had  been  created  in  a  February  1986 
government  reorganization.  In  effect,  the  Defense  and  Security 
Council  became  the  standing  body  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  when 
the  latter  was  not  in  session.  The  Defense  and  Security  Council  met 
in  two  sessions:  a  weekly  meeting  on  defense  and  security  matters, 
and  a  biweekly  meeting  on  economic  issues. 

In  July  1983,  the  MPLA-PT  Political  Bureau  decided  to  form 
regional  military  councils  as  an  "exceptional  and  temporary  mea- 
sure" to  coordinate  political,  military,  economic,  and  social  leader- 
ship in  areas  "affected  by  armed  acts  of  aggression,  vandalism  and 
banditry."  The  councils  reported  directly  to  the  president  as 
FAPLA  commander  in  chief,  who  was  empowered  to  determine 
which  areas  warranted  such  councils  and  to  appoint  council  mem- 
bers. The  councils  were  authorized  to  requisition  and  restrict  the 
movement  of  people  and  goods,  and  their  newly  created  military 


213 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


tribunals  tried  crimes  "against  state  security,  economic  sabotage, 
speculation  and  disobedience  of  directives  from  the  regional  mili- 
tary councils,  as  well  as  those  who  may  damage  or  endanger  the 
interests  of  collective  defense  and  security"  (see  Criminal  Justice 
System,  this  ch.).  Eleven  of  Angola's  eighteen  provinces  were 
immediately  made  subject  to  regional  military  councils,  whose  chair- 
men were  FAPLA  colonels. 

Before  1988  FAPLA' s  areas  of  operations  were  divided  into  ten 
military  regions  (see  fig.  13).  In  early  1988,  however,  calling  this 
structure  inadequate,  the  Ministry  of  Defense  announced  the  for- 
mation of  northern,  eastern,  southern,  and  central  fronts.  The 
northern  front  encompassed  Zaire,  Uige,  Malanje,  Cuanza  Norte, 
and  Bengo  provinces.  The  eastern  front  covered  Lunda  Norte, 
Lunda  Sul,  and  Moxico  provinces.  No  official  information  on  the 
other  fronts  was  available  in  late  1988,  but  presumably  the  southern 
front  included  Cuando  Cubango,  Cunene,  Hufla,  and  Namibe 
provinces,  and  the  central  front  may  have  comprised  Bie,  Huam- 
bo,  Benguela,  and  Cuanza  Sul  provinces.  There  was  no  informa- 
tion on  the  status  of  Cabinda  and  Luanda  provinces,  but  perhaps 
they  remained  separate  regions  because  of  their  strategic  impor- 
tance and  small  size.  Because  of  the  uncertain  boundaries  of  these 
fronts,  most  news  accounts  referred  to  the  military  regions  when 
describing  FAPLA' s  areas  of  operation. 

Armed  Forces  Organization  and  Mission 

The  minister  of  defense  served  under  both  the  political  and  the 
military  authority  of  the  president  in  his  dual  role  as  head  of  govern- 
ment and  FAPLA  commander  in  chief.  Because  defense  and  secu- 
rity matters  were  of  extreme  urgency,  the  minister  of  defense  was 
considered  second  in  importance  only  to  the  president.  The  minister 
was  responsible  for  the  entire  defense  establishment,  including  the 
army,  air  force,  navy,  and  local  militias.  The  commanders  of  the 
three  major  military  services  each  held  the  title  of  vice  minister 
of  defense.  Colonel  Henrique  Carreira  (nom  de  guerre  Iko),  the 
first  minister  of  defense,  held  the  post  from  1975  to  1980;  as  of 
late  1988  Pedro  Maria  Tonha  (nom  de  guerre  Pedale)  had  been 
minister  of  defense  since  July  1980  (see  fig.  14). 

The  Angolan  armed  forces  were  collectively  known  as  FAPLA. 
The  army  was  officially  termed  the  People's  Army  of  Angola 
(Exercito  Popular  de  Angola — EPA).  The  government  and  most 
press  reports,  however,  referred  to  the  army  as  FAPLA.  The  tri- 
ple mission  of  the  military  was  to  protect  and  defend  the  authority 
of  the  party  and  government  from  internal  subversion,  to  defend 
the  country  from  external  attack,  and  to  assist  regional  allies  in 


214 


National  Security 


meeting  their  internal  and  external  security  needs.  Accordingly, 
FAPLA  was  organized  and  equipped  to  fight  both  counterinsur- 
gency  and  conventional  wars  and  to  deploy  abroad  when  ordered; 
it  had  engaged  in  all  these  tasks  continuously  since  independence. 
Its  main  counterinsurgency  effort  was  directed  against  UNITA  in 
the  southeast,  and  its  conventional  capabilities  were  demonstrat- 
ed principally  in  the  undeclared  war  with  South  Africa.  FAPLA 
first  performed  its  external  assistance  mission  with  the  dispatch  of 
1 ,000  to  1 ,500  troops  to  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  in  1977  to  bolster 
the  socialist  regime  of  President  Manuel  Pinto  da  Costa.  During 
the  next  several  years,  Angolan  forces  conducted  joint  exercises 
with  their  counterparts  and  exchanged  technical  operational  visits. 
The  Angolan  expeditionary  force  was  reduced  to  about  500  in  early 
1985.  It  is  probable  that  FAPLA  would  have  undertaken  other 
"internationalist"  missions,  in  Mozambique  for  example,  had  it 
not  been  absorbed  in  war  at  home. 

In  1988  the  strength  of  the  Angolan  armed  forces  was  estimated 
at  100,000  active-duty  and  50,000  reserve  personnel,  organized 
into  a  regular  army  and  a  supporting  militia,  air  and  air  defense 
force,  and  navy.  The  active-duty  forces  had  expanded  greatiy  since 
independence  as  UNITA 's  insurgency  spread  throughout  the  coun- 
try and  South  African  interventions  increased  in  frequency  and 
magnitude.  As  of  late  1988,  Lieutenant  General  Antonio  dos  San- 
tos Franca  (nom  de  guerre  Ndalu)  was  FAPLA  chief  of  the  gener- 
al staff  and  army  commander.  He  had  held  these  positions  since 
1982. 

Ground  Forces 

The  regular  army's  91 ,500  troops  were  organized  into  more  than 
seventy  brigades  ranging  from  750  to  1,200  men  each  and  deployed 
throughout  the  ten  military  regions.  Most  regions  were  commanded 
by  lieutenant  colonels,  with  majors  as  deputy  commanders,  but 
some  regions  were  commanded  by  majors.  Each  region  consisted 
of  one  to  four  provinces,  with  one  or  more  infantry  brigades  assigned 
to  it.  The  brigades  were  generally  dispersed  in  battalion  or  smaller 
unit  formations  to  protect  strategic  terrain,  urban  centers,  settle- 
ments, and  critical  infrastructure  such  as  bridges  and  factories. 
Counterintelligence  agents  were  assigned  to  all  field  units  to  thwart 
UNITA  infiltration.  The  army's  diverse  combat  capabilities  were 
indicated  by  its  many  regular  and  motorized  infantry  brigades 
with  organic  or  attached  armor,  artillery,  and  air  defense  units; 
two  militia  infantry  brigades;  four  antiaircraft  artillery  brigades; 
ten  tank  battalions;  and  six  artillery  battalions.  These  forces  were 
concentrated  most  heavily  in  places  of  strategic  importance  and 


215 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


CONGO 


/ 


1 


r 


;  - — SECOND 

^  

\     ZAIRE  S 
\      FfAST  L 

EIGHTH 

.M-m  %  •  NINTH* 
Luanda^**  fCUANZAI  i>A1^  1  "f 

Yiana^  JZmalanje 

BENG0\'  \ 
„  ,      .  \  CUANZA 

Atlantic  )     sul  ( 
Ocean  f^"  ^ 

A  fHUAMBO  BIE 

•  FOURTH, 

^Huambo  (  / 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


ZAIRE 


LUND  A 
NORTE  ^ 

TENTH 


r 


SEVENTH 
/BENGUELA 

HUILA 

I  /A 

/  *Lubango 

INamibe  >  / 

/       FIFTH  ~\ 

\jAMIBE^  CUNENE 

I 


MOXICO 
THIRD 


MA 


CUANDO 
CUBANGO 

SIXTH 


V 


NAMIBIA 


\ 


BOTSWANA 


International  boundary 

®  Helicopter  regiment 

Province  boundary 

headquarters 

Military  region  boundary 

■  Transport  aircraft  regiment 

National  capital 

headquarters 

• 

Populated  place 

C  Major  vehicle  maintenance 
base 

ZAIRE 

Province 

Major  navy  base 

FIFTH 

Military  region 

A 

Fighter-bomber  regiment 

0       100     200  Kilometers 

headquarters 

0            100           200  Miles 

Figure  13.  Military  Regions  and  Principal  Bases,  1987 


216 


National  Security 


recurring  conflict:  the  oil-producing  Cabinda  Province,  the  area 
around  the  capital,  and  the  southern  provinces  where  UNITA  and 
South  African  forces  operated. 

Special  commands,  military  formations,  and  security  arrange- 
ments were  also  created  in  extraordinary  circumstances.  Thus,  for 
example,  in  June  1985  the  provincial  military  authorities  in  the 
Tenth  Military  Region  established  a  unified  command  to  include 
both  FAPLA  and  the  People's  Vigilance  Brigades  (Brigadas 
Populares  de  Vigilancia — BPV)  to  confront  UNITA 's  expanding 
operations  in  the  region  (see  Internal  Security  Forces  and  Organi- 
zation, this  ch.).  Similarly,  special  railroad  defense  committees  were 
formed  in  the  Ninth  Military  Region  to  protect  the  Luanda  Rail- 
way between  Malanje  and  Luanda  (see  fig.  10).  These  municipal 
committees  were  composed  of  party,  government,  FAPLA, 
JMPLA,  and  BPV  units.  In  1987  FAPLA  was  reported  to  be  re- 
cruiting regional  defense  forces  to  assist  the  regular  army  against 
the  UNITA  insurgency,  but  in  late  1988  no  additional  details  were 
available. 

FAPLA  was  equipped  almost  exclusively  by  the  Soviet  Union. 
In  early  1988,  it  was  reported  to  have  at  least  550  tanks  and  520 
armored  vehicles,  more  than  500  artillery  pieces  and  multiple  rocket 
launchers,  500  mortars,  at  least  900  antitank  weapons,  and  more 
than  300  air  defense  guns  and  surface-to-air  missile  (SAM)  bat- 
teries (see  table  12,  Appendix  A).  However,  in  view  of  continuous 
losses  and  the  influx  of  new  and  replacement  materiel,  these  figures 
were  only  approximate.  For  example,  the  South  African  minister 
of  defense  reported  in  late  1988  that  Angola's  inventory  of  T-54 
and  T-55  tanks  had  increased  from  531  to  1 ,590  between  Septem- 
ber 1987  and  September  1988.  Moreover,  FAPLA  and  UNITA 
exaggerated  successes  and  underestimated  losses  in  military  actions. 
In  the  major  battle  of  Mavinga  in  1986,  UNITA  claimed  to  have 
killed  5,000  FAPLA  troops  and  to  have  destroyed  41  combat  air- 
craft, 202  tanks  and  armored  vehicles,  351  military  transport 
vehicles,  200  trucks,  and  40  SAMs,  figures  that  represented  15  per- 
cent to  25  percent  of  FAPLA' s  inventory. 

In  addition  to  combat  troops  and  equipment,  logistical  support 
units,  and  extensive  headquarters  organizations,  the  armed  forces 
established  a  growing  infrastructure  to  service,  repair,  and  manufac- 
ture defense  equipment.  In  1983  the  government  created  a  new 
company  under  the  Ministry  of  Defense  to  rehabilitate  and  repair 
armored  military  vehicles,  infantry  weapons,  and  artillery.  A  main- 
tenance and  repair  center  for  Soviet-made  light  and  heavy  vehi- 
cles, located  at  Viana  near  Luanda,  was  turned  over  to  Angolan 
authorities  by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1984  to  strengthen  Angolan 


217 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


LL 
LU 

LU 

CO 

z 

n 

LU 

H° 

LL 

z  z 

LU 

LU  — 

Q 

Q  CC 

LL 

s| 

O 

'I 

STER 

o 

z 

o 

Q 

LU  O 

LU  LU  -j 
h-  Q  < 

gS§ 

o  ^  cc 

LU  O  DC 
rr  LU  LU 

5^ 


LU  CC 
1-  LU 
<  Q 
CC  Z 
O  < 

51 

=  8 

Q 


O 

§S 

DC  co 

<  z 

co£ 

LU  LU 
— '  Q 

LU  < 
Q_ 


<<l 

DC  LJ  . 

<  CL  I 

<  <  I 

co  4"  I 

<  m  Jr  I 
<UySLu2| 

DC  °-  CD  5 

LL§OZ<  I 
O  Q_  Q.  <  >-  | 


CC 
LU 
Q 

|I 

lis 

-  LU  < 
Z  LL  < 
5  LU  Q 

Sll2 


DC 

ULA 
PA) 

ER 

E  AND 
ANDER 

<  <  <  < 

iZ  CO  3 

Z  _l      DC  _l 

MINIS" 
EFEN 

COMI 

.E'S 
NGO 
NHA 
UER 
NGO 

PEOPl 
OF  A 

(MARII 
DE  G 
DE  A 

VICE  1 
OF  C 
MGPA 

CO  LL 

go 

DC  Z 

oo 

LL  |_  CO 

*  "CC 

Q  ^         Q  Ml  LU  < 

LU  CC       5  n  Q   1 

^  LU  <Quq. 

LL  LU 
LL  Q 

rr    -     <  Z 

g  m    ^  o>0  < 
<_l  cclu'<ll 
...    <  cc  o  : 

STEI 
:NSE 
THE 
L  ST 
MMA 

PLE'S 
R  THE 
GOLA 
1CAS 
PULA 
ERTA 
GOLA 

)E  MINI 
F  DEFE 
IEF  OF 
ENERA 

MY  CO! 

OOZnOSZ 

UJ  LL  <  JjJ  CL  _l<  I 

—  O  ^C  CD  CC 

>     O  < 

o 

'-E  o 


o  w 

C  "O 
O  C 

it 

CD 


CO  "O 

o  c 

>-  CO 
CD 

x  CD 

CD  cfl 

CD  CD 

CO  0) 


"5  „n 


*.  E 


o  « 

CD  if 

CD  5 
£  CO 

—  CO 


218 


National  Security 


self-sufficiency.  This  center,  reportedly  capable  of  servicing  600 
military  and  commercial  vehicles  a  day,  was  one  of  the  largest  of 
its  kind  in  Africa.  Viana  was  also  the  site  of  an  assembly  plant  for 
commercial  vehicles  as  well  as  military  trucks  and  jeeps.  In  June 
1986,  the  government  signed  a  contract  with  the  Brazilian  compa- 
ny Engesa  for  the  purchase  of  military  trucks  and  construction  of 
a  facility  with  the  capacity  to  repair  about  30  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's heavy  trucks,  military  vehicles  foremost. 

The  regular  army  was  also  supported  by  a  50,000-member 
citizens'  militia,  the  Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial 
Troops,  an  organization  under  the  minister  of  defense  that  had 
both  counterinsurgency  and  police  functions.  The  directorate  was 
established  in  September  1985  as  a  successor  to  the  People's  Defense 
Organization  (Organizacao  de  Defesa  Popular — ODP).  The  ODP 
had  been  formed  in  September  1975  as  an  adjunct  to  FAPLA  to 
defend  against  Portuguese  settler  resistance  and  attacks  by  anti- 
MPLA  insurgents.  After  the  civil  war,  it  retained  its  territorial 
defense  and  counterguerrilla  supporting  roles  but  served  more  as 
a  reserve  than  as  an  active  paramilitary  force.  Indeed,  some  20,000 
ODP  militia  were  inducted  into  the  regular  army  in  the  early  1980s, 
apparently  to  satisfy  an  urgent  requirement  to  expand  FAPLA. 
In  1988  the  Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial  Troops 
was  organized  into  eleven  ' '  Guerrilla  Force"  brigades,  two  of  which 
(about  10,000  members)  were  to  be  on  active  duty  with  FAPLA 
at  any  given  time.  They  were  deployed  in  battalion  and  smaller 
formations,  and  they  often  operated  in  proximity  to  or  jointly  with 
FAPLA  units,  defending  factories,  farms,  and  villages  and  main- 
taining vigilance  against  insurgents.  Although  some  estimates  put 
the  troop  strength  of  the  Guerrilla  Force  as  high  as  500,000,  such 
figures  were  probably  based  on  data  from  the  late  1970s  or  reflect- 
ed the  inclusion  of  reserve  components.  Lieutenant  Colonel  Domin- 
gos  Paiva  da  Silva  was  commander  of  the  Guerrilla  Force  from 
1978  until  his  death  from  natural  causes  in  July  1987  (see  Internal 
Security  Forces  and  Organization,  this  ch.). 

Air  and  Air  Defense  Force 

The  People's  Air  and  Air  Defense  Force  of  Angola  (Forca  Aerea 
Popular  de  Angola/Defesa  Aerea  y  Antiaerea — FAPA/DAA),  offi- 
cially established  on  January  21,  1976,  was  the  largest  air  force 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Colonel  Alberto  Correia  Neto  became  vice 
minister  of  defense  and  FAPA/DAA  commander  in  September 
1986.  He  succeeded  Colonel  Carreira,  who  had  held  that  post  since 
1983.  The  7,000-member  FAPA/DAA  included  about  180  fixed- 
wing  combat  attack  and  interceptor  aircraft;  an  equal  number  of 


219 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

helicopters;  several  maritime  patrol,  reconnaissance,  trainer,  and 
transport  aircraft;  five  air  defense  battalions;  and  ten  SAM  battal- 
ions (see  table  13,  Appendix  A).  Seeking  voluntary  enlistment  was 
initially  the  sole  form  of  recruitment,  but  in  the  1980s  conscrip- 
tion was  increasingly  employed  until  volunteerism  was  restored  in 
1988. 

Angola's  army  had  about  fifteen  years  to  develop  an  organiza- 
tion and  gain  combat  experience  prior  to  independence.  In  con- 
trast, FAPA/DAA  had  to  acquire  personnel,  experience,  and 
equipment  immediately,  and  in  the  context  of  a  civil  war.  These 
unusual  circumstances  affected  both  recruitment  and  force  develop- 
ment. FAPA/DAA 's  pilots,  mostly  in  their  mid-twenties,  got 
combat  experience  immediately.  Moreover,  given  FAPA/DAA 's 
virtually  instantaneous  creation,  its  long-term  dependence  on 
external  assistance  was  inevitable.  Soviet,  Cuban,  and  other  com- 
munist forces  provided  pilots  and  technicians  to  fly  and  maintain 
FAPA/DAA 's  growing,  diversified,  and  increasingly  complex  air 
fleet.  The  principal  tasks  of  this  new  branch  of  the  Angolan  mili- 
tary were  to  protect  the  capital,  guard  major  cities  and  military 
installations  in  the  south  against  South  African  air  raids,  and  extend 
the  air  defense  network  and  combat  operations  southward  to  con- 
front UNITA  forces  and  South  African  invaders. 

According  to  a  1987  press  report,  FAPA/DAA  was  reorganized 
into  three  regiments:  a  fighter-bomber  regiment  headquartered  in 
Lubango,  a  transport  regiment  in  Luanda,  and  a  helicopter  regi- 
ment in  Huambo.  In  addition,  FAPA/DAA  aircraft  and  air  defense 
units  were  deployed  in  strategic  locations  throughout  the  country. 
Of  Angola's  229  usable  airfields,  25  had  permanent-surface  run- 
ways, 13  of  which  exceeded  2,440  meters. 

The  capabilities  and  effectiveness  of  FAPA/DAA  have  increased 
markedly  following  its  creation.  FAPA/DAA' s  expanded  capacity 
to  provide  air  cover  and  supplies  to  forward  ground  forces,  strike 
at  UNITA  bases  and  interdict  South  African  aircraft,  evacuate 
wounded  personnel,  and  perform  reconnaissance  and  liaison  mis- 
sions became  particularly  apparent  during  combined  offensives  after 
1985.  Like  the  army,  FAPA/DAA  developed  modern  facilities  to 
repair  and  service  both  military  and  civilian  aircraft  for  Angola 
and  other  African  states. 

Navy 

The  People's  Navy  of  Angola  (Marinha  de  Guerra  Popular  de 
Angola — MGPA)  remained  a  relatively  unimportant  branch  of  the 
armed  forces  because  of  the  exigencies  of  the  ground  and  air  wars 
in  the  interior.  The  navy's  fortified  headquarters  and  home  port, 


220 


National  Security 


as  well  as  major  ship  repair  facilities,  were  at  Luanda.  Although 
there  were  several  good  harbors  along  Angola's  coastline,  the  only 
other  ports  used  regularly  were  Lobito  and  Namibe,  and  these  were 
used  only  to  support  temporary  southern  deployments.  The  latter 
two  ports  were  located  near  railheads  and  airfields.  Lobito  had 
minor  repair  facilities  as  well. 

The  navy's  mission  was  to  defend  the  1 , 600-kilometer  coastline 
and  territorial  waters  against  South  African  sabotage,  attacks,  and 
resupply  operations  to  UNIT  A;  to  protect  against  unlicensed  fish- 
ing in  Angolan  waters;  and  to  interdict  smugglers.  In  early  1985, 
President  dos  Santos  transferred  responsibility  for  protecting  the 
rich  offshore  fisheries  from  the  coast  guard  to  the  MGPA  to  pro- 
vide more  effective  enforcement  of  fishing  regulations.  After  Lieu- 
tenant Colonel  Manuel  Augusto  Alfredo,  vice  minister  of  defense 
and  MGPA  commander,  was  killed  in  a  road  accident  in  June  1985, 
he  was  succeeded  by  Rear  Admiral  Antonio  Jose  Condessa  de  Car- 
valho  (nom  de  guerre  Toka),  who  had  spent  the  previous  four  years 
in  the  Soviet  Union  studying  military  science. 

The  MGPA  officially  dates  from  July  10,  1976,  when  late- 
President  Agostinho  Neto  visited  the  naval  facilities  at  Luanda. 
Its  senior  officers  had  actually  begun  training  in  1970,  during  the 
war  of  liberation,  when  the  MPLA  sent  the  first  cadre  of  twenty- 
four  naval  trainees  abroad  for  a  three-year  training  program. 
However,  there  was  no  navy  awaiting  their  return.  The  MPLA 
inherited  a  small  number  of  Portuguese  ships  at  independence, 
which  were  subsequently  augmented  by  various  Soviet  warships 
and  support  craft.  In  1988  the  MGPA  was  reported  to  have  1,500 
personnel  (thought  to  be  volunteers)  and  a  fleet  of  about  fifty  ves- 
sels that  included  guided-missile  fast  patrol  boats,  torpedo  boats, 
inland- water  and  coastal  patrol  vessels,  mine  warfare  craft,  and 
amphibious  landing  craft.  The  independent  merchant  marine  fleet 
had  about  100  vessels  that  could  be  impressed  into  service  (see  table 
14,  Appendix  A). 

Most  of  the  navy's  maintenance,  repair,  and  training  were 
provided  by  Soviet  and  Cuban  technicians  and  advisers;  Portugal 
and  Nigeria  also  provided  training  assistance.  Despite  extensive 
foreign  support,  in  late  1988  the  serviceability  of  many  of  the  ves- 
sels and  equipment  was  in  question.  Moreover,  naval  recruitment 
and  the  proficiency  of  MGPA  personnel  remained  problematic; 
indeed,  the  MPLA  and  Ministry  of  Defense  leadership  repeatedly 
appealed  to  youth  (the  JMPLA  in  particular)  to  join  the  navy. 

Foreign  Auxiliary  Forces 

FAPLA  was  augmented  in  the  late  1980s  by  exiled  Namibian 


221 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

and  South  African  black  nationalist  forces,  which  enjoyed  refuge 
in  Angola.  SWAPO  had  some  9,000  guerrillas  encamped  primar- 
ily in  the  south.  Their  location  near  UNITA's  area  of  operations 
permitted  them  to  collect  intelligence  and  conduct  operations,  and 
about  2,500  SWAPO  troops  regularly  engaged  in  fighting  UNITA. 
Moreover,  about  1,000  ANC  guerrillas,  exiles  from  South  Africa, 
also  cooperated  with  FAPLA  in  action  against  UNITA  and  South 
African  forces.  Upon  implementation  of  the  1988  regional  accords 
signed  by  Angola,  South  Africa,  and  Cuba,  it  seemed  likely  that 
SWAPO  guerrillas  would  return  to  Namibia  and  that  the  ANC 
members  would  be  relocated  to  other  African  states  outside  the 
region. 

Troop  Strength,  Recruitment,  and  Conscription 

FAPLA  relied  heavily  on  conscription  to  meet  its  staffing  require- 
ments. Voluntary  enlistments  were  important,  too,  especially  ,in 
FAPA/DAA  and  MGPA,  where  greater  technical  competence  was 
required.  Recruitment  and  conscription  were  carried  out  by  the 
General  Staffs  Directorate  for  Organization  and  Mobilization 
through  provincial  and  local  authorities. 

Although  two-year  conscription  had  been  initiated  in  1978  pur- 
suant to  the  Mobilization  and  Recruitment  Law,  the  First  Extraor- 
dinary Party  Congress  held  in  1980  decided  that  increased  troop 
requirements  warranted  introduction  of  universal  and  compulso- 
ry military  training.  Angola  thus  became  the  first  black- ruled  state 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa  to  make  its  citizens  subject  to  compulsory 
military  service.  Of  Angola's  more  than  8.2  million  people,  males 
in  the  fifteen  to  forty-five  age- group  numbered  almost  2  million, 
half  of  whom  were  considered  fit  for  military  service.  About  87,000 
reached  the  military  recruitment  age  of  eighteen  each  year,  but 
a  sizable  proportion,  perhaps  a  majority,  were  unavailable  because 
of  rural  dislocation  and  UNITA's  control  of  at  least  one- third  of 
the  country.  The  Ministry  of  Defense  issued  periodic  conscription 
orders  for  all  men  born  during  a  given  calendar  year.  Thus,  for 
example,  in  February  1988  the  Ministry  of  Defense  ordered  all  male 
Angolan  citizens  born  during  calendar  year  1970  to  report  to  local 
registration  centers  to  be  recruited  and  inducted  into  active  mili- 
tary service  as  of  March  1 .  Separate  days  were  reserved  for  teachers 
and  students  to  report,  and  officials  in  charge  of  workplaces  and 
schools  were  instructed  to  deny  admission  to  anyone  not  properly 
registered  for  military  service.  After  military  service,  all  person- 
nel were  obliged  to  enroll  in  the  Directorate  of  People's  Defense 
and  Territorial  Troops. 


222 


National  Security 


Particularly  in  the  late  1980s,  FAPLA  apparently  resorted  to 
other  means  besides  conscription  to  satisfy  military  requirements; 
political  needs  were  sometimes  also  met  in  the  process.  For  instance, 
in  the  1980s  several  hundred  former  FNLA  rebels  were  integrated 
into  FAPLA  after  accepting  amnesty.  According  to  UNITA 
sources,  FAPLA  also  had  begun  to  organize  new  recruits  into  bat- 
talions formed  along  ethnic  lines,  with  Mbundu  and  Bakongo  elite 
forces  kept  in  the  rear  while  Ovimbundu,  Kwanhama  (also  spelled 
Kwanyama),  Chokwe  (also  spelled  Cokwe),  and  Nganguela  (also 
spelled  Ganguela)  were  sent  to  the  front  lines  (see  Ethnic  Groups 
and  Languages,  ch.  2).  Children  of  government  and  party  leaders 
were  reported  to  be  exempt  from  conscription  or  spared  service 
on  the  front  lines.  FAPLA  was  also  reported  by  UNITA  to  have 
forcibly  conscripted  hospital  workers,  convicts,  youth,  and  old  men 
after  suffering  heavy  losses  in  the  offensive  of  late  1987. 

Women  played  a  definite  but  poorly  documented  role  in  national 
defense.  They  too  were  subject  to  conscription,  but  their  numbers 
and  terms  of  service  were  not  reported.  FAPLA  included  wom- 
en's units  and  female  officers,  whose  duties  included  staffing  cer- 
tain schools,  particularly  in  contested  areas.  Other  details  on  the 
size,  type,  and  activities  of  these  units  were  not  available. 

Conditions  of  Service,  Ranks,  and  Military  Justice 

It  was  difficult  to  gauge  the  conditions  of  service  and  morale 
among  FAPLA  troops.  Little  public  information  was  available  in 
the  late  1980s,  and  much  of  what  existed  was  propagandists . 
Nonetheless,  service  did  seem  difficult.  Conscription  was  inten- 
sive in  government-controlled  areas,  and  the  spread  of  the  insur- 
gency undermined  security  everywhere.  The  constant  infusion  of 
raw  recruits,  the  rapid  growth  of  FAPLA,  the  increasing  scope  and 
intensity  of  military  operations,  and  escalating  casualties  imposed 
substantial  personal  and  institutional  hardships.  The  continued 
dependence  on  foreign  technicians  and  advisers,  many  of  whom 
were  not  deployed  in  combat  zones,  had  adverse  consequences  for 
operations  and  morale. 

Pay  and  living  conditions  in  garrison  were  probably  adequate 
but  not  particularly  attractive;  in  the  field,  amenities  were  either 
sparse  or  lacking  altogether.  The  expansion  of  quarters  and  facili- 
ties for  troops  did  not  keep  pace  with  the  rapid  growth  of  FAPLA, 
especially  in  the  late  1980s.  There  were  periodic  reports  of  ill- 
equipped  and  poorly  trained  soldiers,  as  well  as  breakdowns  in  ad- 
ministration and  services.  But  given  the  lack  of  alternative  employ- 
ment in  the  war- torn  economy,  military  service  at  least  provided 
many  Angolans  with  short-term  opportunities.  UNITA  frequently 


223 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

reported  incidents  of  flight  to  avoid  government  conscription; 
demoralization  among  FAPLA  troops  from  high  casualties  and 
deteriorating  conditions  of  service;  and  battlefield  desertions, 
mutinies,  and  revolts  among  FAPLA  units.  These  reports  became 
more  frequent  during  annual  FAPLA  offensives  against  UNITA 
strongholds  after  1985. 

In  early  December  1986,  the  People's  Assembly  approved  new 
military  ranks  for  the  three  military  services,  differentiating  those 
of  the  army  and  air  force  from  the  navy.  FAPLA  and  FAPA/DAA 
were  authorized  to  establish  the  ranks  (in  descending  order)  of 
general,  colonel  general,  major  general,  and  lieutenant  general. 
The  MGPA  was  to  have  the  ranks  of  admiral,  vice  admiral,  and 
rear  admiral;  the  ranks  of  colonel,  lieutenant  colonel,  and  major 
were  replaced  by  captain,  commander,  and  lieutenant  commander, 
respectively.  Future  navy  second  lieutenants  would  be  given  rank 
equivalent  to  that  of  their  counterparts  in  the  army  and  air  force. 
Later  that  month,  President  dos  Santos  received  the  rank  of  general 
as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  the  minister  of  defense 
was  appointed  colonel  general,  and  ten  other  senior  military  officers 
were  promoted  to  newly  established  higher  ranks  (see  fig.  15). 

Little  information  was  available  on  the  military  justice  system. 
Military  tribunals  were  created  in  each  military  region,  and  a  higher 
court,  the  Armed  Forces  Military  Tribunal,  served  as  a  military 
court  of  appeal.  Some  observers  inferred  from  the  criminal  justice 
system  and  the  prevalent  wartime  conditions,  however,  that 
Angolan  military  justice  was  harsh,  if  not  arbitrary  (see  Crime  and 
Punishment,  this  ch.). 

Foreign  Influences 

Communist  Nations 

The  Angolan  armed  forces  were  equipped,  trained,  and  support- 
ed almost  exclusively  by  communist  countries.  The  Soviet  Union 
provided  the  bulk  of  FAPLA 's  armaments  and  some  advisers, 
whereas  Cuba  furnished  most  of  the  technical  assistance,  combat 
support,  and  training  advisory  services.  Cubans  also  participated 
to  a  limited  extent  in  ground  and  air  combat.  Other  communist 
countries,  particularly  Czechoslovakia,  the  German  Democratic 
Republic  (East  Germany),  Hungary,  the  Democratic  People's 
Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea),  Poland,  and  Yugoslavia,  also 
furnished  arms  and  related  aid.  In  the  1980s,  Angola  also  obtained 
limited  amounts  of  materiel,  military  assistance,  and  training  from 
countries  such  as  Belgium,  Brazil,  Britain,  the  Federal  Republic 
of  Germany  (West  Germany),  France,  Spain,  and  Switzerland. 


224 


A  female  member  of  the  People's  Armed  Forces  for  the 

Liberation  of  Angola 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (Y.  Nagata) 

Broadly  speaking,  there  was  an  international  division  of  labor  in 
which  the  Soviet  Union  supplied  large  quantities  of  heavy  weapons 
and  equipment,  other  communist  states  furnished  small  arms,  and 
the  noncommunist  suppliers  provided  mostly  nonlethal  items. 

The  MPLA  owed  its  ascendancy  in  the  civil  war  in  large  part 
to  the  massive  Soviet  airlift  of  arms  and  Cuban  troops  during  1975 
and  1976.  Subsequently,  Moscow  and  Havana  remained  the  main- 
stays of  the  regime  as  far  as  its  military  needs  were  concerned.  From 
1982  to  1986,  the  Soviet  Union  delivered  military  equipment  valued 
at  US$4.9  billion,  which  represented  more  than  90  percent  of 
Angola's  arms  imports  and  one-fourth  of  all  Soviet  arms  deliver- 
ies to  Africa.  Poland  and  Czechoslovakia  transferred  arms  valued 
at  US$10  million  and  US$5  million,  respectively,  over  the  same 
five-year  period.  During  1987  and  1988,  Moscow  more  than  com- 
pensated for  FAPLA  losses  with  accelerated  shipments  of  heavy 
armaments.  In  addition  to  the  tanks  noted  earlier,  dozens  of  air- 
craft, heavy  weapons,  and  air  defense  systems  were  delivered. 

Beyond  materiel  deliveries,  Moscow  and  its  allies  continued  to 
provide  extensive  technical  aid.  Soviet  military,  security,  and  in- 
telligence personnel  and  advisers  helped  establish  the  defense  and 
security  forces  and  served  as  advisers  at  all  levels,  from  ministries 
in  Luanda  to  major  field  commands.  The  Soviet  Union's  civilian 


225 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


and  military  intelligence  services,  in  coordination  with  their  coun- 
terpart organizations  from  other  communist  countries,  particularly 
East  Germany,  Czechoslovakia,  and  Cuba,  assisted  in  the  crea- 
tion and  development  of  the  Angolan  state  security  and  intelligence 
services. 

The  Soviet  Union  provided  most  of  the  air  force  pilot  and  tech- 
nician training  as  well  as  technical  assistance  in  the  operation  and 
maintenance  of  the  most  advanced  equipment:  aircraft  and  war- 
ships, major  weapons  such  as  missiles,  artillery,  and  rockets,  and 
sophisticated  radar  and  communications  equipment.  The  number 
of  Soviet  service  members  and  advisers  varied.  In  1988  it  was  esti- 
mated by  most  sources  to  range  between  1 ,000  and  1 ,500  person- 
nel, including  some  fighter  pilots.  UNITA  claimed  that  the  Soviet 
military  presence  increased  during  1988  to  2,500  or  3,000  and  that 
seven  officers  were  assigned  to  each  FAPLA  brigade. 

Cuba  was  the  main  provider  of  combat  troops,  pilots,  advisers, 
engineers,  and  technicians.  As  the  insurgency  war  expanded,  so 
did  Cuba's  military  presence.  By  1982  there  were  35,000  Cubans 
in  Angola,  of  which  about  27,000  were  combat  troops  and  the 
remainder  advisers,  instructors,  and  technicians.  In  1985  their 
strength  increased  to  40,000,  in  1986  to  45,000,  and  in  1988  to 
nearly  50,000.  All  told,  more  than  300,000  Cuban  soldiers  had 
served  in  Angola  since  1975.  Angola  paid  for  the  services  of  the 
Cubans  at  an  estimated  rate  of  US$300  million  to  US$600  million 
annually. 

The  Cuban  forces,  despite  their  numbers,  generally  did  not 
engage  directly  in  combat  after  1976.  Most  of  the  Cubans  were 
organized  and  deployed  in  motorized  infantry,  air  defense,  and 
artillery  units.  Their  main  missions  were  to  deter  and  defend  against 
attacks  beyond  the  southern  combat  zone,  protect  strategic  and  eco- 
nomically critical  sites  and  facilities,  and  provide  combat  support, 
such  as  rear-area  security,  logistic  coordination,  air  defense,  and 
security  for  major  military  installations  and  Luanda  itself.  At  least 
2,000  Cuban  troops  were  stationed  in  oil-producing  Cabinda 
Province.  Cubans  also  trained  Angolan  pilots,  and  flew  some  com- 
bat missions  against  UNITA  and  the  SADF.  In  addition,  Cuban 
military  personnel  provided  technical  and  operational  support  to 
SWAPO  and  the  ANC  within  Angola  (see  Angola  as  a  Refuge, 
this  ch.). 

In  mid- 1988  Cuba  substantially  reinforced  its  military  presence 
in  Angola  and  deployed  about  one-fifth  of  its  total  forces  toward 
the  front  lines  in  the  south  for  the  first  time.  This  cohort  was  report- 
ed to  include  commando  and  SAM  units,  which  raised  concerns 
about  direct  clashes  with  South  African  forces.  The  move  was 


226 


National  Security 


apparently  made  to  keep  UNITA  and  the  SADF  at  bay  and  to 
strengthen  the  negotiating  position  of  Luanda  and  Havana  in  the 
United  States-brokered  peace  talks. 

East  Germany  and  North  Korea  followed  the  Soviet  Union  and 
Cuba  as  Angola's  most  active  and  influential  communist  support- 
ers. The  East  Germans  played  key  roles  in  the  intelligence  and  secu- 
rity agencies,  as  well  as  in  the  ideology  and  propaganda  organs. 
They  provided  communications  security  services,  technicians, 
mechanics,  and  instructors  to  maintain  and  operate  equipment  and 
vehicles  and  to  train  artillery  crews,  radar  operators,  and  combat 
pilots.  The  East  Germans  also  reportedly  operated  a  training  camp 
south  of  Luanda  for  ANC  and  SWAPO  guerrillas.  Estimates  of 
the  number  of  East  Germans  in  Angola  ranged  from  500  to  5,000, 
the  higher  estimates  probably  including  family  members  and  other 
nonmilitary  technicians  and  advisers. 

During  the  1980s,  North  Korea  expanded  and  intensified  its 
diplomatic  and  military  assistance  activities  in  Africa,  particularly 
in  the  southern  part  of  the  continent.  After  training  Zimbabwe's 
Fifth  Brigade  in  1981  and  1982  and  furnishing  arms  to  that  coun- 
try, North  Korea  made  a  major  military  commitment  in  Angola. 
Although  denied  by  Angolan  officials,  several  sources  reported  that 
Luanda  concluded  a  military  aid  agreement  with  Pyongyang  in 
September  1983  that  led  to  the  dispatch  of  some  3,000  North  Korean 
combat  troops  and  military  advisers  by  May  1984. 

The  reported  activities  of  the  North  Koreans  included  the  training 
of  special  units,  such  as  hit-and-run  forces  and  sniper  squads.  North 
Korean  troops  also  reportedly  engaged  in  combat  operations, 
including  FAPLA's  early  1986  offensive.  North  Koreans  were  also 
reported  to  be  providing  military  and  ideological  instruction  to 
SWAPO  and  ANC  militants  in  five  training  camps  north  and  north- 
east of  Luanda. 

Other  communist  states  provided  more  modest  military  support. 
Arms  deliveries  by  Poland  and  Czechoslovakia  were  noted  earlier. 
A  military  cooperation  agreement  was  signed  in  1982  with  Hun- 
gary, which  was  reported  to  have  provided  small  arms.  Yugosla- 
via furnished  grenade  launchers,  trip-wire  grenades,  antipersonnel 
mines,  hollow-charge  rockets,  and  air  defense  artillery;  a  Yugo- 
slav firm  also  built  a  runway  and  other  facilities  at  Lubango  air- 
port. Romania  was  reported  to  have  given  unspecified  military  aid. 

Noncommunist  Nations 

In  the  1980s,  Angola  diversified  its  foreign  arms  acquisitions  for 
political  and  practical  reasons.  Politically,  Luanda  was  anxious  to 
gain  international  legitimacy,  counter  UNITA' s  international 


227 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


228 


National  Security 


diplomatic  offensive,  reduce  its  dependence  on  its  communist  allies, 
and  gain  leverage  in  dealing  with  its  traditional  arms  suppliers. 
The  practical  reason  was  dissatisfaction  with  the  level  of  support 
given  by  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies,  the  poor  quality  of  some 
equipment,  and  the  inability  to  obtain  certain  military  materiel. 
Perhaps  in  deference  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  other  communist 
benefactors,  most  procurements  from  other  sources  consisted  of 
relatively  inexpensive  support  equipment.  This  policy  left  Moscow 
with  a  virtual  monopoly  on  the  provision  of  major  weapons  systems. 

Diversification  was  evident  in  FAPLA's  purchase  of  jeeps,  Land 
Rovers,  and  radios  from  Britain,  trucks  and  communications  equip- 
ment from  West  Germany,  small-caliber  ammunition  and  artillery 
shells  from  Belgium,  uniforms  from  Japan,  and  jeeps,  trucks,  and 
truck  engines  from  Brazil.  The  MGPA  also  discussed  the  acquisi- 
tion of  corvettes  with  French,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese  shipbuilders. 
Among  the  larger  purchases  made  from  Western  Europe  were  Swiss 
Pilatus  training  aircraft;  Spanish  CASA  C-212  Aviocar  transport 
aircraft;  French  Dauphin,  Gazelle,  and  Alouette  helicopters;  French 
Thomson-CSF  tactical  military  transceivers;  and  British  Racal 
radio  communications  equipment. 

Ironically,  Portugal  continued  to  play  a  role  in  the  Angolan  con- 
flict. Although  the  Portuguese  government  did  not  officially  pro- 
vide arms,  military  assistance,  or  troops,  private  Portuguese 
"mercenaries"  and  advisers  apparently  served  with  both  FAPLA 
and  UNITA.  In  1983  retired  Portuguese  admiral  Rosa  Coutinho 
set  up  a  company  to  hire  former  military  and  reserve  officers,  many 
of  whom  had  served  in  Angola  during  the  war  of  liberation,  as  con- 
tract military  advisers  and  to  train  FAPLA  counterinsurgency  units. 
Twelve  were  reported  to  be  training  FAPLA  instructors  in  early 
1984,  and  a  total  of  thirty- two  were  reportedly  hired  in  1986. 
However,  several  of  these  advisers  were  killed  in  action  against 
UNITA,  and  most  left  by  late  1987.  UNITA  also  claimed  that  some 
3,000  Portuguese  "communists"  were  in  the  country  assisting 
Luanda  in  late  1986,  but  this  claim  may  have  been  either  an  exag- 
geration or  a  reference  to  civilian  technicians.  MPLA-PT  sources 
charged  that  there  were  more  than  2,000  South  African- trained 
Portuguese  commandos  fighting  with  UNITA. 

Training 

Regular  and  informal  training  was  provided  throughout  the  coun- 
try at  troop  recruitment  centers,  officer  candidate  schools,  special- 
ized technical  training  centers,  and  field  units.  The  military  regional 
headquarters  were  responsible  for  providing  individual  training  in 
basic  military  subjects  to  troops  and  noncommissioned  officers. 


229 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


In  1985  the  government  cited  as  major  accomplishments  the 
establishment  of  formal  training  programs  for  military  cadres,  the 
creation  of  military  education  centers  throughout  the  country  (par- 
ticularly at  the  intermediate  level  for  officers  and  specialists),  and 
the  creation  of  various  specialized  branches  of  the  armed  forces. 
The  Soviet  Union  and  other  communist  countries  provided  most 
of  the  formal  military  training.  The  United  States  Department  of 
State  estimated  that  3,260  Angolan  military  personnel  had  been 
trained  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe  through  the  end 
of  1986  and  that  1,700  Warsaw  Pact  military  technicians  were 
present  in  Angola  that  year.  Most  of  the  technicians  were  engaged 
in  maintaining  and  otherwise  servicing  military  equipment  fur- 
nished by  the  Soviet  Union  and  other  communist  states. 

Individual  officer  candidate  training  was  conducted  at  the  Com- 
andante  Zhika  Political-Military  Academy  in  Luanda,  which 
opened  in  1984.  Most  of  the  instruction  was  originally  given  by 
Soviet  and  Cuban  officers  and  specialists,  but  since  then  qualified 
Angolan  instructors  reportedly  had  joined  the  staff.  As  the  acade- 
my's name  suggested,  the  curriculum  included  training  in  such  mili- 
tary subjects  as  strategy,  tactics,  and  weapons,  as  well  as  political 
and  ideological  indoctrination.  Another  training  program  at  the 
academy — a  condensed  version  of  the  officer  candidate  political- 
military  curriculum — was  attended  by  senior  party  officials  on 
weekends  over  a  ten-month  period. 

Senior  military  officers  participated  in  an  eight-month  advanced 
course  at  the  Escola  de  Oficiais  Superiores  Gomes  Spencer  at 
Huambo,  but  details  on  the  curriculum  were  not  available.  The 
school's  eighth  class,  which  graduated  in  1984,  included  about  fifty 
senior  FAPLA  officers.  Advanced  officer  training  and  high-level 
training  for  officers  and  enlisted  personnel  in  armor,  artillery,  and 
other  specialties  was  also  conducted  in  Huambo.  The  Gomes 
Spencer  academy  was  attacked  and  extensively  damaged  by  a 
UNITA  commando  raid  in  July  1986. 

Although  information  on  unit-level  training  was  not  available, 
battalion-level  exercises  had  been  reported  in  the  northern  and 
western  provinces,  far  removed  from  the  war  zone.  It  is  likely  that 
such  large  unit-training  exercises  immediately  preceded  deployment 
to  the  combat  zone.  Reserve  units  also  trained,  as  indicated  by  the 
report  of  a  reserve  battalion  having  completed  a  three-month  course 
that  included  physical  conditioning,  hand-to-hand  combat,  and 
infantry  tactics. 

In  addition  to  basic  individual  and  unit-level  training,  technical 
training  was  provided  in  such  specialized  functional  areas  as 
communications,  intelligence,  artillery,  armor,  air  defense,  motor 


230 


National  Security 


transport,  and  logistics.  This  training  was  provided  at  facilities  such 
as  the  Comandante  Economica  Communications  School.  FAPA/ 
DAA  inaugurated  a  two-year  course  for  cadets  in  1979  at  the  Na- 
tional Air  Force  School  in  Negage.  In  early  1983,  176  cadets  com- 
pleted the  nine-subject  course,  which  was  administered  by  Angolan 
instructors  and  "internationalists"  (presumably  Soviet  and  Cuban 
advisers).  A  course  for  radio  technicians  and  radar  specialists  was 
also  offered  at  the  Negage  training  center. 

Some  military  training  was  conducted  abroad,  particularly  in 
the  Soviet  Union,  Eastern  Europe,  and  Cuba.  In  mid- 1985  the 
commander  of  the  Fifth  Military  Region's  FAPA/DAA  reported 
the  arrival  in  the  region  of  many  new  pilots  and  technicians  who 
had  recently  completed  their  training  program  in  the  Soviet  Union. 
From  1977  to  1981,  Soviet  specialists  trained  more  than  3,000  motor 
mechanics  and  drivers  and  100  aircraft  technicians  in  both  Angola 
and  the  Soviet  Union. 

FAPLA's  Combat  Performance 

FAPLA's  military  performance  was  difficult  to  gauge,  particu- 
larly in  view  of  the  propagandistic  reports  issued  by  the  various 
forces  contending  in  the  region.  On  the  one  hand,  UNITA  had 
extended  its  range  of  operations  from  the  remote  southeastern 
extremities  throughout  the  entire  country  within  a  few  years  of  Por- 
tugal's  withdrawal.  The  SADF  had  occupied  parts  of  southern 
Angola  for  extended  periods,  virtually  without  contest,  for  the  pur- 
poses of  resupplying  UNITA,  intervening  on  its  behalf,  conduct- 
ing reconnaissance  flights  and  patrols,  and  attacking  SWAPO 
encampments.  UNITA  reported  low  morale  among  captured 
FAPLA  conscripts,  lack  of  discipline  among  troops,  heavy  losses 
of  personnel  and  equipment  in  battle,  countless  ambushes  and 
attacks  on  FAPLA  forces,  successful  sabotage  operations,  and  deser- 
tions by  battalion-size  FAPLA  units.  In  the  late  1980s,  Angola's 
minister  of  defense  publicly  called  for  greater  discipline  in  FAPLA, 
citing  reports  of  theft,  assaults,  and  drunken  military  drivers.  As 
late  as  1988,  in  the  wake  of  reports  of  increased  FAPA/DAA  effec- 
tiveness, the  South  African  Air  Force  (SAAF)  commander  dis- 
missed the  Angolans  as  "extremely  unprofessional,"  noting  that 
"50  percent  of  the  threat  against  us  is  Cuban." 

On  the  other  hand,  it  could  be  argued  that  FAPLA  had  sub- 
stantially improved  its  capabilities  and  performance.  In  the  first 
place,  FAPLA  had  begun  to  develop  and  acquire  the  organization, 
doctrine,  and  equipment  of  a  conventional  army  only  during  the 
civil  war  of  1975-76.  It  was  then  forced  to  fight  a  counterinsur- 
gency  war  in  the  most  remote  and  inaccessible  parts  of  the  country 


231 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


over  extended  lines  of  communications,  without  the  requisite  air 
or  ground  transport  or  logistical  infrastructure.  UNITA  also  en- 
joyed the  advantages  of  operating  in  thinly  populated  areas  along 
porous  borders  with  Zambia  and  Zaire,  with  extensive  SADF  com- 
bat and  logistic  support,  making  it  impossible  for  FAPLA  to  iso- 
late or  outflank  UNITA.  Moreover,  military  experts  believe  that 
counterinsurgency  troops  must  outnumber  guerrillas  by  ten  to  one 
in  order  to  win  such  wars,  a  ratio  FAPLA  could  never  approxi- 
mate. The  air  force  and  navy  were  even  further  behind  and  had 
required  years  to  acquire  the  assets  and  the  expertise  needed  for 
effective  operations.  Although  the  navy  was  of  marginal  use  in  the 
war,  air  power  was  critical.  It  was  only  after  sufficient  aircraft  and 
air  defense  systems  had  been  deployed  in  the  mid-1980s  that  Luanda 
was  able  to  launch  and  sustain  large  offensives  in  the  south. 
Although  they  suffered  heavy  losses  and  perhaps  relied  too  heavily 
on  Soviet  military  doctrine,  FAPLA  and  FAPA/DAA  in  the  late 
1980s  showed  increased  strength,  put  greater  pressure  on  UNITA, 
and  raised  the  costs  of  South  Africa's  support  for  UNITA.  Luan- 
da's resolve  and  the  improved  capabilities  and  performance  of  its 
armed  forces  were  among  the  essential  conditions  under  which 
South  Africa  agreed  to  negotiate  its  withdrawal  from  Angola. 

War  and  the  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Society 
The  Costs  of  Endemic  Conflict 

Persistent  internal  and  external  conflict  have  wrought  havoc  on 
Angola.  The  human  cost  has  been  awesome  and  tragic.  It  was 
estimated  that  as  a  consequence  of  war,  between  60,000  and  90,000 
people  had  died,  and  20,000  to  50,000  persons  had  become  ampu- 
tees as  of  1988  (see  Effects  of  the  Insurgency,  ch.  2).  From  1975 
to  1988,  almost  700,000  people  were  forced  to  flee  their  rural  homes 
for  relative  safety  in  displacement  camps  or  in  burgeoning  cities 
and  towns,  where  they  suffered  gross  deprivations  in  the  absence 
of  basic  services.  About  400,000  Angolans  became  refugees  in  neigh- 
boring states.  Moreover,  in  1986  some  600,000  people  needed  nutri- 
tional assistance. 

The  Angolan  economy  was  also  ravaged  by  wartime  destruc- 
tion and  the  heavy  defense  burden.  Iron  production  virtually 
stopped,  diamond  mining  and  timber  harvesting  were  severely  cur- 
tailed, and  smuggling  siphoned  off  needed  export  earnings.  Eco- 
nomic sabotage  and  attacks  on  infrastructure  by  UNITA  and  South 
Africa  damaged  or  destroyed  hundreds  of  facilities  and  made 
development  impossible.  The  destruction  attributed  to  South 
African  military  actions  alone  was  estimated  at  US$20  billion. 


232 


A  government  soldier  is  fitted 
for  a  prosthesis 
at  a  hospital  in  Huambo. 
Courtesy  International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 
(Yannick  Muller) 


Devastation  of  the  once-prosperous  agricultural  sector  was  forc- 
ing the  government  to  import  about  80  percent  of  its  food  require- 
ments in  the  mid-1980s,  at  a  cost  of  US$250  million  to  US$300 
million  annually.  It  was  only  because  of  oil  production  in  rela- 
tively secure  Cabinda  Province  that  the  country  could  pay  the  high 
cost  of  defense  and  keep  itself  from  total  economic  ruin  (see  Back- 
ground to  Economic  Development;  Structure  of  the  Economy, 
ch.  3). 

Military  recruitment  placed  a  growing  burden  on  the  Angolan 
population.  According  to  statistics  published  by  the  United  States 
Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency  (AC DA),  the  number  of 
soldiers  per  1 ,000  people  increased  from  five  in  1975  to  more  than 
seven  in  the  1980s,  which  ranked  Angola  fifty- seventh  among  144 
countries  in  1985.  Any  reckoning  of  the  military  burden  borne  by 
the  Angolan  people,  however,  must  also  take  into  account  UNITA's 
armed  forces.  And  because  both  FAPLA  and  UNITA  expanded 
considerably  in  the  late  1980s  as  the  internal  war  intensified,  the 
number  of  combatants  per  1 ,000  people  was  actually  twenty  (based 
on  1988  population  and  combined  armed  forces  estimates),  a  figure 
that  moved  Angola's  global  ranking  into  the  top  fifteen. 

War  and  the  Military  in  National  Perspective 

Perpetual  war  magnified  and  multiplied  the  social  and  eco- 
nomic impact  of  defense  spending.  Military  expenditures  and  arms 


233 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

imports  were  the  most  obvious  indicators  of  the  intensified  war 
effort.  Luanda's  defense  spending  nearly  quadrupled  from  US$343 
million  in  1978  to  US$1.3  billion  in  1986  (in  constant  1980  dol- 
lars), the  bulk  of  that  increase  coming  after  1983.  In  1986  defense 
accounted  for  40.4  percent  of  government  expenditures.  Military 
expenditure  as  a  percentage  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — 
see  Glossary),  estimated  at  12  percent  to  14  percent  from  1980  to 
1982,  rose  steadily  to  28.5  percent  by  1985. 

Arms  imports  also  increased  dramatically.  Measured  in  con- 
stant 1984  dollars,  the  value  of  arms  imports  nearly  doubled  after 
1980.  During  the  late  1970s,  arms  deliveries  remained  relatively 
constant  at  a  bit  more  than  US$500  million  per  year,  but  after  1980 
they  surged  to  an  annual  average  of  more  than  US$1  billion.  Since 
the  1970s,  Angola's  arms  imports  had  ranged  between  45  percent 
and  88  percent  of  total  imports.  In  mid- 1988  Angolan  government 
officials  estimated  the  country's  external  debt  at  US$4  billion,  most 
of  which  was  owed  to  the  Soviet  Union  for  military  purchases,  and 
they  were  considering  the  possibility  of  imposing  a  compulsory  pub- 
lic loan  to  cover  revenue  requirements. 

Angola's  heavy  defense  burden  was  evident  by  comparative  stan- 
dards as  well.  According  to  1985  statistics  published  by  AC  DA, 
Angola  ranked  sixty-third  of  144  countries  in  both  military  expen- 
diture and  size  of  its  armed  forces.  These  absolute  measures  of  mili- 
tary effort  were  consistent  with  Angola's  ranking  of  between 
sixty-eight  and  seventy-three  in  GNP,  central  government  expen- 
ditures, and  population.  However,  the  militarizing  effects  were  seen 
more  clearly  and  dramatically  in  relative  measures  of  defense  effort: 
Angola  ranked  seventeenth  in  level  of  arms  imports  and  sixth  in 
arms  imports  as  a  percentage  of  total  imports,  twenty-sixth  in  mili- 
tary expenditure  as  a  percentage  of  GNP,  thirty- second  in  military 
expenditure  as  a  percentage  of  the  government's  budget,  fiftieth  in 
military  expenditure  per  capita,  and  fifty-seventh  in  military  expen- 
diture relative  to  the  size  of  the  armed  forces.  The  continued  growth 
of  the  armed  forces,  military  expenditures,  and  arms  imports  into 
the  late  1980s  further  increased  the  burden  of  defense  and  en- 
sured that  few  resources  would  be  left  for  social  and  economic 
development. 

Not  only  did  the  armed  forces  command  and  consume  an  enor- 
mous share  of  national  wealth  and  revenue,  their  increased  political 
power  was  institutionalized  at  every  level  of  government.  The  de- 
fense and  security  forces  were  heavily  represented  in  the  highest 
organs  of  the  party  and  government;  indeed,  the  exigencies  of  war 
virtually  transformed  the  integrated  party- government  system  into 
a  military  machine  dedicated  to  prosecuting  war  at  an  increasingly 


234 


National  Security 


higher  price.  The  reorganization  of  the  territorial  administration 
into  military  regions  and  provincial  defense  councils  carried  the 
process  even  further.  It  remained  to  be  seen  whether  the  Decem- 
ber 1988  regional  accords — which  excluded  UNITA — would  result 
in  a  reversal  of  the  process. 

Civic  Action  and  Veterans'  Groups 

Like  those  of  many  other  developing  countries,  Angola's  armed 
forces  were  intended  to  play  an  important  role  in  nation  building 
through  civic-action  programs.  The  Constitution,  in  fact,  spe- 
cially assigns  "production"  and  "reconstruction"  duties  to  FAPLA. 
In  the  late  1970s,  FAPLA  units  were  encouraged  to  grow  their  own 
food  and  to  undertake  civic  action,  emergency  relief,  and  public 
construction  projects.  However,  such  tasks  were  given  only  nomi- 
nal attention  as  the  war  intensified. 

Veterans  of  the  liberation  struggle  and  families  of  those  who  died 
in  that  protracted  conflict  enjoyed  "special  protection"  under  the 
Angolan  Constitution,  but  this  status  was  not  further  defined.  The 
rapidly  expanding  pool  of  war  veterans  in  the  1980s  could  make 
a  substantial  contribution  to  national  reconstruction  and  develop- 
ment if  their  political,  ideological,  organizational,  social,  and  tech- 
nical skills  could  be  mobilized  or  channeled  in  such  directions. 
However,  the  continuation  of  the  war  and  the  absence  of  informa- 
tion about  their  postservice  occupations  and  activities  precluded 
observation  of  veterans'  actual  roles  in  society.  The  MPLA-PT 
did  attend  to  veterans'  interests  through  party  and  government 
organs.  As  noted  earlier,  veterans  were  eligible  for  party  member- 
ship, and  a  high  government  post,  the  secretary  of  state  for  war 
veterans,  was  also  dedicated  to  veterans'  affairs.  The  Angolan  War 
Veterans  Committee,  with  government  endorsement,  sought  aid 
from  the  Soviet  Union  and  presumably  other  potentially  sympa- 
thetic international  donors. 

Internal  Security 

Since  independence,  the  MPLA-PT  government  had  faced 
several  internal  opponents  and  rivals  for  power.  Broadly  speak- 
ing, one  can  distinguish  between  antigovernment  and  antiregime 
opposition  groups.  These  groups  differed  in  their  goals,  methods, 
and  bases  of  support.  On  the  one  hand,  antigovernment  groups 
protested  or  sought  to  change  the  incumbent  leadership,  used 
conventional  means  of  political  opposition  ranging  from  passive 
resistance  to  attempted  coups,  and  drew  support  from  constitu- 
encies almost  entirely  within  the  country.  The  main  source  of  such 


235 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

political  opposition  was  factionalism  within  the  MPLA-PT.  Clan- 
destine opposition  groups  and  religious  sects  also  contributed  to 
antigovernment  tensions  (see  Political  Opposition,  ch.  4). 

On  the  other  hand,  antiregime  groups  sought  to  transform  the 
political  system  or  overthrow  the  ruling  MPLA-PT,  resorted  to 
efforts  at  secession  and  armed  rebellion,  and  received  substantial 
external  support.  The  most  prominent  of  these  political  opponents 
were  FLEC,  the  FNLA,  and  UNITA.  Whereas  the  first  two  had 
become  spent  forces  by  the  1980s,  UNITA  continued  to  pose  a 
serious  national  security  challenge. 

The  MPLA-PT  government  survived  this  host  of  threats  by 
developing  an  extensive  internal  security  apparatus  to  supplement 
the  armed  forces.  This  system  consisted  of  a  paramilitary  territorial 
militia;  a  state  security  ministry  with  penal  functions,  political 
police,  and  border  guards;  a  national  police  force;  and  a  nation- 
wide popular  vigilance  brigade  organization. 

Antigovernment  Opposition 

The  history  of  the  MPLA  party  and  government  is  ridden  with 
factional  strife  based  on  ideological,  political,  ethnic,  and  personal 
rivalries.  In  the  early  1970s,  Daniel  Chipenda,  a  member  of  the 
MPLA  Central  Committee,  was  thought  to  have  instigated  two 
assassination  attempts  against  President  Neto  and  was  expelled  from 
the  party  in  December  1974.  As  leader  of  the  so-called  Eastern 
Revolt  faction,  he  joined  the  rival  FNLA,  based  in  Kinshasa,  Zaire, 
as  assistant  secretary  general.  Former  MPLA  president  Mario  de 
Andrade  also  opposed  Neto's  leadership  and  attempted  to  rally  sup- 
port for  his  so-called  Active  Revolt  faction  in  1974.  In  May  1977, 
Nito  Alves,  former  commander  of  the  first  military  division  and 
minister  of  interior,  spearheaded  an  abortive  coup  with  the  sup- 
port of  an  extremist  faction.  Many  MPLA  officials  were  killed, 
including  seven  Central  Committee  members  (see  Independence 
and  the  Rise  of  the  MPLA  Government,  ch.  1).  And  in  early  1988, 
seven  military  intelligence  officers  were  reported  to  have  been  sen- 
tenced to  imprisonment  for  fifteen  to  twenty  years  and  expelled 
from  FAPLA  for  plotting  a  coup  against  President  dos  Santos. 

Other  sources  of  dissent  included  several  small  clandestine 
groups,  which,  to  avoid  infiltration,  remained  anonymous  and  re- 
stricted recruitment  mainly  to  Angolan  expatriates  and  exiles.  They 
reportedly  represented  a  variety  of  ideological  inclinations,  were 
disaffected  by  the  continuing  civil  war,  economic  chaos,  and  political 
intolerance,  and  advocated  development  and  a  pluralistic  political 
system.  In  1987  about  two  dozen  members  of  one  such  group, 
the  Independent  Democrats,  were  imprisoned  and  their  leader 


236 


National  Security 


sentenced  to  death.  These  events  cast  doubt  on  the  group's  con- 
tinued ability  to  survive. 

Religious  sects  were  another  source  of  antigovernment  agitation. 
The  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  often  at  odds  with  the  MPLA- 
PT  government  but  did  not  openly  challenge  it.  More  problem- 
atic was  the  government's  clashes  with  such  independent  sects  as 
the  Jehovah's  Witnesses  and  the  Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  Church 
in  the  World  (Kimbanguist),  whose  members  were  popularly  called 
Mtokoists,  after  the  sect's  founder,  Simon  Mtoko  (also  spelled 
Simao  Toco).  After  Mtoko's  death  in  1984,  elements  of  the  Mto- 
koist  sect  engaged  in  alleged  "antipatriotic  activities"  that  were 
supposedly  responsible  for  riots  that  occurred  in  at  least  three  cit- 
ies. Angolan  security  forces  were  believed  to  have  sponsored  re- 
bellious factions  within  the  leadership.  During  1986  and  1987,  more 
than  100  Mtokoists  were  killed  in  riots  and  demonstrations,  and 
the  sect  was  banned  for  one  year.  Jehovah's  Witnesses  were  banned 
from  practicing  their  religion  for  their  refusal  to  perform  military 
service  (see  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Erstwhile  Opposition:  FLEC  and  the  FN  LA 

FLEC  waged  an  intermittent  independence  struggle  between  its 
establishment  in  1963  and  its  virtual  demise  by  the  mid-1980s. 
Zaire's  withdrawal  of  support  and  internal  dissension  in  the  late 
1970s  caused  FLEC  to  fragment  into  five  factions,  three  of  which 
remained  marginally  active  militarily  in  the  late  1980s.  A  combi- 
nation of  the  factions'  internal  divisions  and  lack  of  external  sup- 
port, on  the  one  hand,  and  the  heavy  concentration  in  Cabinda 
of  Cuban  troops  and  FAPLA  forces,  on  the  other  hand,  reduced 
FLEC  to  litde  more  than  a  nuisance.  In  1983  Luanda  granted  an 
unofficial  amnesty  to  the  guerrilla  separatists,  and  more  than  8,000 
refugees  returned  home.  In  February  1985,  a  cease-fire  agreement 
was  signed  and  talks  began,  but  no  formal  resolution  was  reached. 
In  late  1988,  FLEC  existed  in  little  more  than  name  only. 

Holden  Roberto's  FNLA  was  also  defunct  by  1988.  After  los- 
ing to  the  MPLA  in  the  civil  war,  the  FNLA  retreated  to  its  tradi- 
tional refuge  in  Zaire  and  continued  to  wage  a  low-level  insurgency. 
However,  in  1978  Zaire  withdrew  its  support  of  the  FNLA  as  part 
of  the  Angolan- Zairian  accord  signed  in  the  wake  of  the  second 
invasion  of  Shaba  Region.  Ousted  by  his  own  commanders, 
Roberto  was  exiled  to  Paris  in  1979.  He  emerged  again  in  1983 
in  an  unsuccessful  effort  to  generate  international  support  and 
material  aid  for  his  7,000  to  10,000  poorly  armed  troops,  who  oper- 
ated (but  did  not  control  territory)  in  six  northern  Angolan  prov- 
inces. 


237 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

FNLA  remnants  formed  the  Military  Council  of  Angolan 
Resistance  (Conselho  Militar  de  Resistencia  Angolana — Comira) 
in  August  1980  to  replace  the  moribund  movement.  Comira  claimed 
to  have  2,000  troops  training  in  Zaire  for  an  invasion  of  northern 
Angola,  but  it  never  offered  more  than  sporadic  challenges.  Its  lack 
of  strength  was  the  result  of  the  loss  of  its  major  external  patron, 
the  broadening  of  the  leadership  of  the  MPLA-PT  to  include  more 
Bakongo  people  (the  primary  source  of  FNLA  support),  and  more 
aggressive  FAPLA  operations.  Several  Comira  leaders  defected  to 
the  Angolan  side,  and  in  1984  more  than  1,500  armed  rebels  and 
20,000  civilian  supporters  accepted  the  amnesty  originally  offered 
in  1978  and  surrendered  to  Angolan  authorities.  Hundreds  were 
integrated  into  FAPLA  and  the  security  forces.  Luanda  reported 
in  October  1988  that  11,000  former  FNLA/Comira  members  had 
been  "reintegrated  into  national  reconstruction  tasks,"  and  in 
November  the  exiled  Roberto  was  reported  to  have  accepted 
amnesty. 

The  Enduring  Rival:  UNITA 

UNITA  in  the  1980s  was  a  state  within  a  state.  Under  the  leader- 
ship of  Jonas  Savimbi,  it  survived  defeat  during  the  civil  war, 
retreated  to  the  remote  southeastern  corner  of  the  country, 
regrouped  and  made  its  headquarters  at  Jamba,  and  launched  a 
determined  campaign  to  overturn  the  MPLA-PT  regime  or  at  least 
force  it  to  accept  UNITA  in  a  coalition  government  (see  fig.  16). 
With  increasing  international  support  and  military  aid,  particu- 
larly from  South  Africa  and,  after  1985,  the  United  States,  UNITA 
extended  its  campaign  of  destruction  throughout  the  entire  coun- 
try. It  enlarged  its  military  forces  and  scope  of  operations  and  with- 
stood several  major  FAPLA  offensives. 

Starting  with  a  small  army  of  a  few  thousand  defeated  and  poorly 
armed  followers  at  the  end  of  1976,  Savimbi  built  a  credible  polit- 
ical organization  and  fighting  force.  Unlike  what  became  of  the 
MPLA  under  its  faction-ridden  leadership,  UNITA  remained  the 
creation  and  vehicle  of  its  founder.  Internal  opposition  occasion- 
ally surfaced,  but  the  lack  of  independent  reporting  made  it  difficult 
to  assess  its  significance.  South  Africa  kept  FAPLA  and  Cuban 
forces  at  bay  and  intervened  whenever  FAPLA  offensives  threat- 
ened, leaving  UNITA  comparatively  free  to  consolidate  its  con- 
trol throughout  the  south  and  to  extend  its  range  of  operations 
northward.  In  February  1988,  Savimbi  announced  the  formation 
of  a  UNITA  government  in  "Free  Angola,"  the  area  he  controlled. 
Although  his  intent  was  to  regularize  administration,  rather  than 
to  secede  or  seek  international  recognition,  this  event  marked  a 


238 


National  Security 


new  stage  in  UNITA's  organizational  development  and  consoli- 
dation, and  many  Africans  states  maintained  at  least  informal  ties 
to  the  movement. 

Savimbi's  strategy  and  tactics  were  designed  to  raise  the  costs 
of  foreign  "occupation"  through  maximum  disruption  and  dislo- 
cation, while  minimizing  his  own  casualties.  UNITA's  forces 
infiltrated  new  areas  and  contested  as  much  territory  as  possible, 
wresting  it  away  from  FAPLA  control  whenever  feasible.  They  rare- 
ly seized  and  held  towns,  except  near  their  bases  in  the  south. 
Rather,  they  sabotaged  strategic  targets  of  economic  or  military 
value  and  ambushed  FAPLA  units  when  the  latter  attempted  to 
return  to  or  retake  their  positions.  FAPLA  access  was  also  ob- 
structed by  extensive  mine  laying  along  lines  of  communication, 
approaches  to  setdements,  and  infrastructure  sites.  To  undermine 
support  for  the  MPLA-PT,  UNITA  indiscriminately  attacked  or 
took  hostage  hundreds  of  expatriate  technicians  and  advisers,  and 
Savimbi  repeatedly  threatened  multinational  companies  with  retali- 
ation for  their  support  of  the  government.  Apparently  abandon- 
ing hope  of  military  victory,  Savimbi  sought  instead  to  strengthen 
UNITA's  bargaining  position  in  demanding  direct  negotiations  with 
Luanda  for  the  establishment  of  a  government  of  national  unity. 

UNITA's  military  progress  was  remarkable.  By  1982  it  had 
declared  all  but  six  of  the  eighteen  Angolan  provinces  to  be  war 
zones.  In  late  1983,  with  direct  air  support  from  South  Africa, 
UNITA  took  the  town  of  Cangamba,  the  last  FAPLA  stronghold 
in  southeastern  Angola.  This  operation  marked  a  shift  from  guer- 
rilla tactics  to  conventional  warfare,  at  least  in  the  countryside.  In 
1984  UNITA  announced  the  beginning  of  an  urban  guerrilla  cam- 
paign and  claimed  responsibility  for  acts  of  sabotage  in  Luanda 
itself  and  even  in  Cabinda.  The  movement  gained  control  of  the 
regions  bordering  Zambia  and  Zaire,  enabling  it  to  develop  secure 
supply  lines  plus  infiltration  and  escape  routes.  From  1984  to  1987, 
UNITA  not  only  continued  to  advance  north  and  northwest  but 
also  repulsed  major  FAPLA  offensives  backed  by  heavy  Cuban 
and  Soviet  logistic  and  combat  support,  in  the  latter  instances  rely- 
ing on  SADF  air  and  ground  support.  In  spite  of  the  1988  region- 
al accords,  according  to  which  FAPLA  and  UNITA  were  to  lose 
much  of  their  external  support,  no  military  solution  to  the  war  was 
expected. 

Military  Organization  and  Capability 

UNITA's  military  wing,  the  Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation 
of  Angola  (Forcas  Armadas  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FALA),  was 
under  the  supreme  authority  of  Savimbi  as  commander  in  chief. 


239 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


CONGO  Brazzaville 

/*s     j  •  ^  Kinshasa 

/    *  ^ 
)CABINDA 


V 


ZAIRE 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


— 


ZAIRE    •  ^  V 
1//GE 
).Uige.  S'-\ 

Luanda jh  GUANZAj 
LUANDA^      WORTB  Malanje 

,    CUANZA  .  J> 

Mtantic  J     SUL  : 
Ocean  L  .  ^ 

'/dCX^Vs  i  I 

Bengueta  ' 

BENGUELA^ 

■  — • '       -u  £ 
Kuvango  | 
-f^ango  HUILA  * 


^VMM/SE^V 

"  Xangongo 
y    .  •  OndjivQ  | 


LUND  A 
NORTE 


f 


*Sauhmo 

LUND  A 
SUL 


Bundu 


lers 


ZAMBIA 


BOTSWANA 


—  ■  ■  —  International  boundary 

—  •  —  Province  boundary 
®      National  capital 

Z4/RE  Province 

•  Populated  place  UNITA-Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia 
i  i  i  i  i  Railroad  Total  de  Angola  (National  Union  for  the  Total 


UNITA-claimed  territory 


UNITA-associated  airport 


Independence  of  Angola) 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jonas  Bernstein,  "A  Freedom  Fight  Deep  in  Africa," 
Insight,  December  19,  1988,  11. 


Figure  16.  Territory  Claimed  by  UNIT  A,  1988 

The  chief  of  staff  was  second  in  command  and  controlled  the  head- 
quarters elements  of  intelligence,  personnel,  logistics,  and  op- 
erations. In  January  1985,  the  FALA  chief  of  staff,  Brigadier 


240 


National  Security 


Demosthenes  Amos  Chilingutila,  who  had  held  that  post  since  1979, 
was  removed  and  made  chief  of  operations,  possibly  because  of 
Savimbi's  dissatisfaction  with  his  performance,  and  replaced  by 
Brigadier  Alberto  Joaquim  Vinama.  However,  following  Vinama's 
death  in  an  automobile  accident  in  October  1986,  Chilingutila  was 
reappointed  chief  of  staff. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  FALA  had  evolved  into  a  well-defined  con- 
ventional military  organization  with  command  and  specialized  staff 
organs,  a  formal  hierarchy  of  ranks,  an  impressive  array  of  weapons 
and  equipment,  and  considerable  international  support.  Geographi- 
cally, UNITA's  nationwide  area  of  operations  consisted  of  five 
fronts  commanded  by  a  colonel  or  brigadier,  which  were  subdivided 
into  twenty-two  military  regions  under  a  colonel  or  lieutenant 
colonel.  The  regions  in  turn  were  divided  into  sectors  (usually  three) 
commanded  by  a  major  and  further  subdivided  into  zones  under 
captains  or  lieutenants. 

FALA  had  a  four- tiered  hierarchical  structure.  The  lowest  level, 
the  local  defense  forces,  had  six  battalions  of  poorly  armed  men 
recruited  as  guards  and  local  militia  in  contested  areas.  The  next 
stratum  consisted  of  dispersed  guerrillas  who  trained  in  their  local 
areas  for  about  sixty  days  and  then  conducted  operations  there, 
either  in  small  groups  of  about  twenty  or  in  larger  units  of  up  to 
150.  They  were  armed  with  automatic  weapons  and  trained  to 
attack  and  harass  FAPLA  convoys,  bases,  and  aircraft.  The  third 
level  included  forty-four  semi-regular  battalions  that  received  a 
three-month  training  course  and  were  sent  back  to  the  field  in  units 
of  up  to  600.  These  forces  were  capable  of  attacking  and  defend- 
ing small  towns  and  strategic  terrain  and  infrastructure.  Finally, 
FALA  regular  battalions  of  about  1,000  troops  each  completed  a 
six-month  to  nine-month  training  period,  and  about  a  quarter  of 
them  also  received  specialized  training  in  South  Africa  or  Namibia 
in  artillery,  communications,  and  other  technical  disciplines.  Armed 
with  heavy  weapons  plus  supporting  arms  such  as  artillery,  rock- 
ets, mortars,  and  antitank  and  air  defense  weapons,  these  FALA 
regulars  had  the  tasks  of  taking  territory  and  holding  it. 

By  1987  UNITA  claimed  to  have  65,000  troops  (37,000  guer- 
rilla fighters — those  in  the  first  three  categories  cited  above — and 
28,000  regulars),  but  other  estimates  put  FALA's  total  strength 
closer  to  40,000.  Among  its  specialized  forces  were  sixteen  platoons 
of  commandos  and  other  support  units,  including  engineering, 
medicine,  communications,  and  intelligence.  In  late  1987,  women 
were  integrated  into  FALA  for  the  first  time  when  a  unit  of  fifty 
completed  training  as  semi-regulars.  Seven  members  of  this  group 
received  commissions  as  officers. 


241 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

In  addition  to  combat  forces,  UNITA  had  an  extensive  logisti- 
cal support  infrastructure  of  at  least  10,000  people,  about  1,000 
vehicles  (mostly  South  African  trucks),  an  expanding  network  of 
roads  and  landing  strips,  schools,  hospitals,  supply  depots,  and 
specialized  factories,  workshops  and  other  facilities  used  to  manufac- 
ture, repair,  and  refurbish  equipment  and  weapons.  The  main 
logistical  support  center  and  munitions  factory  was  Licua.  Many 
smaller  centers  were  scattered  throughout  UNITA-controlled  ter- 
ritory. Like  Jamba,  UNITA's  capital,  these  centers  were  mobile. 

It  was  difficult  to  determine  the  conditions  of  service  with  UNITA 
guerrillas.  Military  service  was  voluntary  and  uncompensated,  but 
soldiers  and  their  families  normally  received  their  livelihood,  even 
if  it  sometimes  meant  appropriating  local  food  supplies.  Moreover, 
political  indoctrination  was  an  essential  part  of  military  life  and 
training.  Although  visitors  to  UNITA-controlled  territory  reported 
that  the  armed  forces  were  highly  motivated,  FALA  defectors  and 
captives  allegedly  reported  coercive  recruiting  and  low  morale. 

FALA  had  a  substantial  arsenal  of  weapons  and  equipment  of 
diverse  origin,  most  of  which  was  captured  from  FAPLA  during 
attacks  on  convoys,  raids,  or  pitched  battles,  or  donated  by  the 
SADF  as  war  booty.  The  remainder  came  from  various  countries 
and  the  international  black  market.  Included  in  FALA's  inven- 
tory were  captured  T-34  and  T-55  tanks,  armored  vehicles,  vehicle- 
mounted  rocket  launchers,  76mm  and  122m  field  guns,  mortars 
(up  to  120mm),  RPG-7  and  106mm  antitank  weapons,  heavy  and 
light  machine  guns,  various  antiaircraft  guns,  SA-7  and  United 
States-manufactured  Redeye  and  Stinger  SAMs,  and  G-3  and 
AK-47  assault  rifles. 

External  Support 

FALA,  like  FAPLA,  would  not  have  been  able  to  expand  its  size, 
capabilities,  and  range  of  operations  without  extensive  external  as- 
sistance. By  supplying  UNITA  with  US$80  million  worth  of  as- 
sistance annually  during  the  1980s,  Pretoria  remained  the  group's 
principal  source  of  arms,  training,  logistical,  and  intelligence  sup- 
port. The  SAAF  made  regular  air  drops  of  weapons,  ammunition, 
medicine,  food,  and  equipment,  sometimes  at  night  to  avoid  in- 
terception, and  was  reported  occasionally  to  have  ferried  FALA 
troops.  South  African  instructors  provided  training  in  both  Namibia 
and  UNITA-controlled  areas  of  southern  Angola.  The  largest  train- 
ing center  in  Namibia  was  at  Rundu,  where  intensive  three-month 
training  courses  were  conducted.  In  late  1988,  amidst  regional  peace 
negotiations,  there  were  reports  that  UNITA  was  planning  to  relo- 
cate its  main  external  logistical  supply  lines  from  South  Africa  to 


242 


Jonas  Savimbi, 
the  leader  of  the  National  Union 
for  the  Total  Independence 
of  Angola 
Courtesy  Free  Angola 
Information  Service 


UNITA  troops  atop  a 
Soviet-built  BTR-60 
captured  in  Mavinga  in  1987 
Courtesy  Free  Angola 
Information  Service 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Zaire  and  was  moving  its  headquarters  and  forces  into  Namibia's 
Caprivi  Strip  before  the  anticipated  arrival  of  a  UN  peacekeeping 
force. 

In  addition  to  aid  from  South  Africa,  UNITA  received  support 
in  varying  degrees  from  numerous  black  African  and  North  Afri- 
can states.  Zaire  provided  sanctuary  and  allowed  its  territory  to 
be  used  by  others  to  train  and  resupply  UNITA  forces,  and  Zam- 
bia and  Malawi  were  suspected  of  granting  clandestine  overflight 
and  landing  privileges.  During  the  1970s,  UNITA  troops  were 
trained  in  Senegal,  Tanzania,  Zambia,  and  other  African  coun- 
tries. Subsequentiy,  Egypt,  Morocco,  Senegal,  Somalia,  and  Tuni- 
sia also  furnished  financial  and  military  aid.  Morocco,  which  had 
supplied  arms  to  the  MPLA  during  the  liberation  struggle,  switched 
sides  and  became  a  major  source  of  military  training  for  FALA, 
especially  for  officers,  paratroops,  and  artillery  personnel.  Saudi 
Arabia,  Kuwait,  and  other  Arab  states  furnished  financial  support 
valued  at  US$60  million  to  US$70  million  annually.  Israel  was  also 
reported  to  have  provided  military  aid  and  training  to  UNITA  sol- 
diers at  Kamina  in  Zaire.  Although  Savimbi  denied  that  UNITA 
had  ever  employed  foreign  mercenaries  or  advisers,  there  had  been 
reports  of  South  African,  French,  Israeli,  and  Portuguese  combat- 
ants among  his  forces. 

Beginning  in  1986,  the  United  States  had  supplied  UNITA  with 
US$15  million  to  US$20  million  annually  in  ' 'covert"  military  aid 
funded  out  of  the  budget  of  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA). 
The  first  acknowledged  shipments  of  United  States  aid  consisted 
of  nonlethal  items  such  as  trucks,  medical  equipment,  and  uniforms, 
but  antitank  and  air  defense  weapons  soon  followed.  The  bulk  of 
this  materiel  was  reportedly  airlifted  through  Kamina  airbase  in 
Zaire's  Shaba  Region,  where  a  UNITA  liaison  detachment  was 
stationed  and  CIA  operatives  were  believed  by  Luanda  to  have 
trained  3,000  UNITA  guerrillas.  The  remainder  was  thought  to 
have  been  delivered  through  South  Africa,  Gabon,  and  Central 
African  Republic. 

Angola  as  a  Refuge 

The  MPLA-PT  government,  conscious  of  its  own  revolution- 
ary and  anticolonial  origins  and  committed  to  the  liberation  of  South 
African-occupied  Namibia  and  of  South  Africa  itself,  provided  both 
sanctuary  and  material  support  to  SWAPO  and  the  ANC.  Although 
FAPLA  never  made  a  preemptive  attack  south  of  the  Namibian 
border,  Pretoria's  forces  repeatedly  invaded  or  otherwise  inter- 
vened militarily  in  Angola.  South  Africa's  regional  strategy  was 
to  ensure  UNITA' s  success,  contain  and  disrupt  SWAPO,  prevent 


244 


National  Security 


the  establishment  of  ANC  bases  in  southern  Angola,  and  halt  Cuban 
and  Soviet  expansion  southward.  In  addition  to  SWAPO  and  the 
ANC ,  a  large  contingent  of  Katangan  gendarmes  (remnants  of  the 
force  that  had  invaded  Zaire's  Shaba  Region  in  1977  and  1978) 
enjoyed  the  protection  of  the  Angolan  government. 

SWAPO  was  headquartered  in  Luanda  and  directed  camps 
primarily  in  southern  Angola  from  which  its  militants  could  infil- 
trate Namibia  in  small  units.  SWAPO 's  military  wing,  the  Peo- 
ple's Liberation  Army  of  Namibia  (PLAN),  had  main  command 
centers  in  Luanda  and  Lubango  and  training  camps  in  Hufla,  Ben- 
guela,  and  Cuanza  Sul  provinces.  To  avoid  identification,  infiltra- 
tion, and  attack  by  the  SADF,  most  of  its  camps  were  mobile. 
SWAPO  recruits  were  trained  at  Angolan  and  Cuban  military 
facilities,  whence  they  were  dispatched  to  SWAPO  camps  and  for- 
mally organized  into  battalions  of  400  to  800  troops  each.  PLAN's 
strength  in  1988  was  estimated  at  9,000  troops,  most  of  whom  were 
engaged  in  operations  in  Angola  against  UNITA,  rather  than 
against  the  SADF  in  Namibia.  It  was  uncertain  whether  PLAN's 
anti-UNITA  operations  represented  a  quid  pro  quo  for  Angolan 
sanctuary  and  material  support  or  reflected  limited  chances  to  oper- 
ate in  Namibia  because  of  South  African  defenses.  In  the  Angolan 
government's  1986  offensive  against  UNITA,  for  example,  it  was 
estimated  that  6,000  to  8,000  SWAPO  guerrillas  operated  with 
FAPLA. 

In  May  1978,  South  African  forces  made  their  first  major  cross- 
border  raid  into  Angola,  attacking  SWAPO' s  main  camp  at  Cas- 
singa.  Other  major  South  African  incursions  against  SWAPO  bases 
and  forces  occurred  in  1981  and  1983.  These  attacks  and  the  many 
that  followed,  coupled  with  UNITA 's  territorial  expansion,  dis- 
rupted SWAPO  and  forced  it  to  disperse  and  move  northward. 
The  Lusaka  Accord  of  February  1984  provided  for  a  cease- 
fire, South  African  withdrawal,  and  relocation  of  SWAPO  under 
FAPLA  control  to  monitored  camps  north  of  a  neutral  zone  along 
the  Namibian  border.  But  Pretoria,  alleging  that  SWAPO' s 
redeployment  was  incomplete,  delayed  its  own  pullout  until  April 
1985.  In  September  1985,  however,  South  Africa  launched  another 
major  air  and  ground  attack  on  SWAPO  and  later  claimed  to  have 
killed  about  600  guerrillas  in  1985  and  1986. 

The  southern  African  peace  negotiations  in  1988  rekindled 
rumors  of  debate  within  the  MPLA-PT  about  continued  support 
for  SWAPO.  The  regional  accords  required  Angola  to  restrict 
PLAN  to  an  area  north  of  16°  south  latitude,  about  150  kilome- 
ters from  the  Namibian  border.  South  Africa  accused  SWAPO  of 
violating  the  agreement  by  remaining  in  the  proscribed  area  and 


245 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

intensifying  its  operations  from  a  military  command  headquarters 
at  Xangongo.  Accusations  aside,  SWAPO  intended  PLAN  to  form 
the  nucleus  of  a  future  Namibian  national  army,  into  which  it  would 
integrate  the  existing  territorial  forces  after  a  period  of  reorienta- 
tion and  rehabilitation. 

The  ANC,  banned  in  South  Africa,  operated  mainly  in  Angola 
under  the  protection  and  control  of  Luanda.  At  least  seven  major 
training  camps  for  an  estimated  1,000  to  1,400  members  of  the 
ANC's  military  wing,  Umkhonto  we  Sizwe  (Zulu  for  "Spear  of 
the  Nation"),  were  in  Angola.  Most  of  the  ANC's  personnel,  which 
were  organized  into  three  battalions,  had  their  encampment  at 
Viana,  outside  Luanda.  This  location  in  northern  Angola  provid- 
ed security  from  South  African  attacks  but  restricted  the  ANC's 
ability  to  infiltrate  or  mount  attacks  on  South  Africa.  Other  major 
camps  were  also  in  the  north  at  Caculama,  Pango,  and  Quibaxe. 
ANC  militants,  like  those  of  PLAN,  were  engaged  along  with  FAP- 
LA  forces  in  fighting  UNITA.  Some  ANC  forces  may  have  been 
integrated  into  FAPLA  units.  Such  joint  training  and  operations 
facilitated  the  ANC's  access  to  weapons  and  supplies,  which  came 
mostly  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies.  Sanctuary  in  Angola 
became  all  the  more  important  after  the  March  1984  Mozambique- 
South  Africa  nonaggression  and  mutual  security  pact,  the  Nkomati 
Accord,  which  obliged  Maputo  to  control  ANC  activities.  By  1988 
a  combination  of  internal  and  external  pressures  had  considerably 
weakened  the  ANC,  including  assassinations  of  its  leadership,  South 
African  infiltration  and  crackdowns  at  home,  attacks  on  ANC  cadres 
in  Botswana,  and  the  United  States-brokered  peace  accords  under 
which  Luanda  agreed  to  terminate  its  assistance  to  the  ANC.  As 
1988  ended,  the  ANC  decided  to  relocate  its  bases  out  of  Angola; 
reportedly,  Ethiopia,  Tanzania,  Nigeria,  and  Uganda  had  been 
mentioned  as  possible  destinations. 

Finally,  Angola  was  a  refuge  for  some  1,400  Zairian  dissidents. 
Although  quiescent  since  1978,  these  former  Katangan  gendarmes, 
who  formed  the  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Congo  (Front 
National  pour  la  Liberation  du  Congo — FNLC),  remained  Luan- 
da's potential  trump  card  if  relations  with  Zaire  became  intolerable. 

Internal  Security  Forces  and  Organization 

Internal  security  responsibilities  in  Angola  were  distributed 
among  the  ministries  of  defense,  state  security,  and  interior,  plus 
the  People's  Vigilance  Brigades  (Brigadas  Populares  de  Vigilan- 
cia — BPV).  This  elaborate  internal  security  establishment  was 
another  manifestation  of  endemic  crises  and  the  mass  mobiliza- 
tion undertaken  to  cope  with  them.  The  Ministry  of  Defense's 


246 


National  Security 


Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Territorial  Troops,  established 
as  the  ODP  in  late  1975,  had  600,000  members,  with  some  of  these 
personnel  in  virtually  every  village  by  1979.  By  that  time,  50,000 
ODP  troops  were  also  reported  to  be  fighting  alongside  the  regu- 
lar army  against  UNITA  and  the  SADF.  Estimates  of  the  size  of 
the  ODP  militia  in  the  late  1980s  varied  widely,  from  an  effective 
strength  of  50,000,  one-fifth  of  whom  served  with  FAPLA,  to  a 
nominal  (possibly  reserve)  strength  of  500,000.  This  militia  had 
both  armed  and  unarmed  units  dispersed  in  villages  throughout 
the  country  to  guard  likely  UNITA  targets  such  as  bridges,  power 
plants,  wells,  schools,  and  clinics.  The  ODP  also  cooperated  with 
FAPLA,  sometimes  in  joint  operations,  to  thwart  infiltration  and 
attacks  by  small  units  in  areas  where  UNITA  or  other  insurgent 
forces  were  operating. 

State  security  functions  were  assigned  to  the  Angolan  Directorate 
of  Intelligence  and  Security  (Direcao  de  Informacao  e  Seguranca 
de  Angola — DISA)  in  the  Ministry  of  Interior.  As  the  principal 
internal  security  organ  with  intelligence  collection  and  political 
police  functions,  the  DISA  was  powerful  and  feared.  Its  national 
security  police  force  had  wide-ranging  powers  and  discretion  to  con- 
duct investigations,  make  arrests,  detain  individuals,  and  deter- 
mine how  they  would  be  treated.  Indeed,  during  Colonel  Ludy 
Kissassunda's  tenure  as  director  (1975-79),  the  agency  came  into 
disrepute  for  excesses  that  included  torture  and  summary  execu- 
tions. In  mid- 1979  President  Neto  announced  the  dissolution  of 
the  DISA,  the  arrest  of  Kissassunda  and  several  other  top  security 
officials,  and  the  reorganization  of  the  state  security  apparatus. 
Although  officially  abolished,  the  DISA  remained  the  colloquial 
term  for  the  state  security  police.  Its  agents  were  trained  at  a  school 
in  Luanda  by  East  German  and  Soviet  instructors.  The  DISA 
reportedly  also  operated  out  of  the  Angolan  chancery  in  Portugal 
to  maintain  surveillance  over  expatriate  activities  and  received 
assistance  from  counterparts  in  various  communist  embassies  in 
Lisbon. 

The  Ministry  of  State  Security  was  created  in  July  1980  as  part 
of  a  government  reorganization  by  dividing  the  Ministry  of  Interior 
into  two  separate  ministries.  The  new  ministry  consolidated  the 
DISA's  internal  security  functions  with  those  relating  to  counterin- 
telligence, control  of  foreigners,  anti-UNITA  operations,  and  frontier 
security.  Colonel  Kundi  Paihama,  the  former  minister  of  interior, 
became  the  minister  of  state  security  upon  creation  of  the  minis- 
try, but  in  late  1981  Colonel  Paulo  succeeded  Paihama. 

In  early  1986,  after  having  revitalized  the  party  organs  and 
formed  a  new  Political  Bureau,  President  dos  Santos  undertook 


247 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

to  purge  and  reorganize  the  Ministry  of  State  Security.  He  removed 
Paulo  and  Deputy  Minister  Mendes  Antonio  de  Castro,  took  over 
the  portfolio  himself,  and  appointed  Major  Fernando  Dias  da 
Piedade  dos  Santos,  deputy  minister  of  interior  since  mid- 1984, 
as  new  deputy  minister  of  state  security.  In  March  1986,  the  presi- 
dent formed  the  Commission  for  Reorganization  of  the  Ministry 
of  State  Security,  composed  of  all  the  directors  at  the  ministries 
of  interior  and  state  security,  under  Piedade  dos  Santos's  leader- 
ship. After  the  arrest  and  jailing  of  several  senior  state  security  offi- 
cials for  abuse  of  their  positions,  corruption,  and  other  irregularities, 
the  commission  was  disbanded  in  March  1988.  In  May  1988,  Presi- 
dent dos  Santos  relinquished  the  state  security  portfolio  to  Paiha- 
ma,  who  also  retained  the  position  of  minister  of  state  for  inspection 
and  control. 

The  Angolan  Border  Guard  (Tropa  Guarda  Fronteira  Angolana — 
TGFA),  under  the  Ministry  of  State  Security,  was  responsible  for 
maintaining  security  along  more  than  5,000  kilometers  of  land  bor- 
ders with  Congo,  Zaire,  Zambia,  and  Namibia;  maritime  border 
surveillance  may  also  have  been  included  in  the  TGFA's  mission. 
The  TGFA's  strength  was  estimated  at  7,000  in  1988.  Local  training 
took  place  under  Cuban  instructors  at  several  centers,  including 
Omupanda,  Saurimo,  Negage,  and  Caota,  although  some  border 
guards  were  sent  to  Cuba,  presumably  for  advanced  or  special- 
ized training. 

After  its  reorganization  in  1980,  the  Ministry  of  Interior  super- 
vised the  national  police,  provincial  administration,  and  investi- 
gation of  economic  activities.  Although  the  Ministry  of  State 
Security  was  responsible  for  administering  the  national  prison  sys- 
tem, certain  prison  camps  were  run  by  the  Ministry  of  Interior. 
It  was  unclear  how  territorial  administration  was  carried  out  in 
relation  to  the  regional  military  and  provincial  defense  councils. 
Colonel  Manuel  Alexandre  Rodrigues  (nom  de  guerre  Kito),  who 
had  been  vice  minister  of  interior  in  charge  of  internal  order  and 
the  national  police,  was  promoted  to  minister  in  the  1980  reorgani- 
zation and  was  still  serving  in  that  post  in  late  1988.  At  that  time, 
however,  in  response  to  reports  that  "special  forces  of  a  com- 
mando nature"  had  been  established  within  the  ministry  without 
authorization,  President  dos  Santos  ordered  an  investigation  as  a 
prelude  to  a  restructuring  and  personnel  purge. 

The  national  Angolan  People's  Police  evolved  from  the  Por- 
tuguese colonial  police  and  the  People's  Police  Corps  of  Angola, 
which  was  set  up  in  1976  under  the  Ministry  of  Defense.  Head- 
quartered in  Luanda  but  organized  under  provincial  and  local  com- 
mands, the  police  numbered  about  8,000  men  and  women  and 


248 


National  Security 


reportedly  was  supported  by  a  paramilitary  force  of  10,000  that 
resembled  a  national  guard.  Cuban  advisers  provided  most  recruit 
training  at  the  Kapolo  Martyrs  Practical  Police  School  in  Luan- 
da, but  some  police  training  was  also  given  in  Cuba  and  Nigeria. 
In  1984  Minister  of  Interior  Rodrigues  dismissed  Fernando  da  Con- 
ceicao  as  police  director  and  named  Piedrade  dos  Santos  as  his 
provisional  replacement.  Rodrigues  relieved  Major  Bartolomeu 
Feliciano  Ferreira  Neto  as  chief  of  the  general  staff  of  the  police 
general  command  in  November  1987,  appointing  Inspector  Jose 
Adao  de  Silva  as  interim  chief  of  the  general  staff  pending  a  per- 
manent posting.  In  December  1988,  Armindo  Fernandes  do 
Espfrito  Santo  Vieira  was  appointed  commander  general  of  the 
Angolan  People's  Police  (apparently  the  top  police  post,  formerly 
titled  director).  At  the  same  time,  police  functions  were  being 
reorganized  and  consolidated  within  the  Ministry  of  Interior  to 
eliminate  unauthorized  activities,  give  the  police  more  autonomy, 
and  make  them  more  responsive  to  party  and  government  direction. 

Finally,  President  dos  Santos  created  the  BPV  in  August  1983 
as  a  mass  public  order,  law  enforcement,  and  public  service  force 
in  urban  areas.  Organizationally,  the  BPV  had  ministerial  status, 
and  its  commander  reported  directly  to  the  president.  In  some  ways, 
the  BPV  was  the  urban  counterpart  of  the  Directorate  of  People's 
Defense  and  Territorial  Troops.  Unlike  this  directorate,  however, 
whose  members  served  alongside  the  army,  the  BPV  was  strictiy 
defensive.  Some  BPV  units  were  armed,  but  most  performed  public 
security  and  welfare  duties  and  local  political  and  ideological 
work — including  intelligence  gathering,  surveillance  and  security 
patrols,  civil  defense,  crime  prevention  and  detection,  and  the 
organization  of  health,  sanitation,  recreation,  beautification,  and 
other  social  services — with  and  through  local  government  and  the 
field  offices  of  central  government  agencies.  The  brigades  were 
organized  at  the  provincial  level  and  below,  operated  in  small  units 
of  up  to  100  members,  and  expanded  rapidly,  particularly  in  areas 
affected  by  UNIT  A  insurgency.  In  late  1984,  a  large  number  of 
FAPLA  soldiers  were  integrated  into  the  BPV  to  strengthen  its  num- 
bers and  technical  military  skills.  The  BPV  was  also  reported  to 
serve  as  a  recruitment  pool  for  FAPLA.  By  1987  the  BPV's  strength 
was  estimated  by  various  sources  to  be  from  800,000  to  1.5  mil- 
lion. A  third  of  its  members  were  said  to  be  women,  organized 
into  30,000  brigades  under  Colonel  Alexandre  Lemos  de  Lucas 
(nom  de  guerre  Bota  Militar). 

The  rapid  growth  and  diverse  social  composition  of  the  BPV  were 
illustrated  by  reports  from  Namibe  and  Huambo  provinces.  In  early 
1985,  there  were  about  500  vigilantes  organized  into  twenty-six 


249 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


squads  in  Namibe,  capital  of  Namibe  Province.  These  vigilante 
units  had  just  been  credited  with  neutralizing  a  network  of 
"saboteurs"  who  were  stealing  and  selling  large  quantities  of  food 
and  housewares  at  high  prices.  Two  years  later,  the  Namibe  provin- 
cial BPV  was  reported  to  have  1 1 ,885  men  and  women  organized 
into  6  municipal  and  228  intermediary  brigades.  Among  the  ranks 
were  305  MPLA-PT  members,  266  members  of  the  Organization 
of  Angolan  Women  (Organizacao  da  Mulher  Angolana — OMA), 
401  members  of  the  JMPLA,  and  448  members  of  the  National 
Union  of  Angolan  Workers  (Uniao  Nacional  dos  Trabalhadores 
Angolanos — UNTA).  In  Huambo  Province,  there  were  report- 
edly about  100,000  brigade  members  in  early  1986,  one-third  of 
them  women,  and  the  authorities  planned  continued  expansion  to 
300,000  by  the  end  of  that  year. 

As  in  the  case  of  the  armed  forces,  the  Angolan  internal  security 
organs  were  subject  to  ideological  and  institutional  controls.  They 
were  also  heavily  influenced  by  Soviet,  East  German,  and  Cuban 
state  security  doctrines,  organizational  methods,  techniques,  and 
practices.  Advisers  from  these  countries  were  posted  throughout 
the  security  ministries,  where  their  presence,  access,  and  influence 
ironically  became  a  security  problem  for  the  Angolan  government. 
They  reportedly  penetrated  the  internal  security  apparatus  so 
thoroughly  and  recruited  so  many  Angolan  security  officials  that 
President  dos  Santos  removed  foreigners  from  some  sensitive  areas 
and  dismissed  several  Angolan  security  officers  for  "collaboration" 
with  foreign  elements.  A  security  school,  staffed  entirely  by  Ango- 
lan personnel,  also  opened  in  late  1987,  thereby  reducing  the  need 
and  attendant  risks  of  sending  officers  abroad  for  training. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
Criminal  Justice  System 

The  Ministry  of  Justice  administered  the  civil  legal  and  penal 
systems,  although  its  jurisdictional  boundaries  with  the  Ministry 
of  State  Security,  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  the  Ministry  of  Defense, 
and  the  regional  military  councils  were  unclear.  The  civilian  court 
system,  known  as  the  People's  Revolutionary  Tribunal  (Tribunal 
Popular  Revolucionario),  was  established  in  1976  to  deal  with  cap- 
ital offenses  against  national  security.  These  courts  had  jurisdic- 
tion over  crimes  against  the  security  of  the  state,  mercenary 
activities,  war  crimes,  and  so-called  crimes  against  humanity,  and 
they  could  unilaterally  assume  jurisdiction  over  any  criminal  case 
that  had  a  significant  impact  on  national  security  (see  Judicial  Sys- 
tem, ch.  4).  Such  tribunals,  composed  of  three  to  five  judges,  were 


250 


National  Security 


established  in  each  provincial  capital  but  administered  by  a  national 
directorate  in  Luanda.  In  late  1988,  Fernando  Jose  de  Franca  Dias 
Van  Dunem  had  been  minster  of  justice  since  February  1986,  when 
he  had  succeeded  Diogenes  Boavida. 

In  1983  military  tribunals  were  set  up  in  each  military  region 
and  empowered  to  try  crimes  against  the  security  of  the  state, 
including  alleged  offenses  committed  on  behalf  of  UNITA  such 
as  terrorism,  espionage,  treason,  sabotage,  destabilization,  and 
armed  rebellion;  " economic  crimes"  such  as  speculation,  hoard- 
ing, and  currency  violations;  disobedience  of  directives  from  the 
regional  military  council;  and  other  acts  that  might  "damage  or 
endanger  the  interests  of  collective  defense  and  security."  The 
independence  of  the  judicial  structure  and  process  was  severely  cir- 
cumscribed by  political  control  of  the  court  system  and  the  fact  that 
the  judges  of  the  military  tribunals  were  military  officers  whose 
appointment,  reassignment,  and  removal  were  controlled  by  the 
minister  of  defense.  Military  courts  frequendy  handed  down  death 
sentences,  which  were  usually  carried  out  by  firing  squad.  Although 
persons  sentenced  to  death  by  military  courts  were  legally  entitled 
to  automatic  appeal  to  the  Armed  Forces  Military  Tribunal,  the 
highest  military  court,  such  appeals  were  not  known  to  have  been 
lodged. 

Article  23  of  the  Constitution  provides  that  citizens  shall  not  be 
arrested  and  tried  except  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  law  and 
states  the  right  of  accused  persons  to  legal  defense.  However,  the 
extent  to  which  these  provisions  were  observed  was  uncertain. 
Amnesty  International,  a  human  rights  organization,  reported 
the  detention  without  charge  or  trial  of  dozens  of  political  pri- 
soners and  trials  by  military  tribunals  of  hundreds  who  were  not 
given  adequate  opportunity  to  prepare  their  defense  or  appeal 
sentences. 

Angolan  law  provided  that  persons  suspected  of  having  commit- 
ted serious  crimes  against  the  security  of  the  state  could  be  detained 
without  charge  by  the  Ministry  of  State  Security  for  up  to  three 
months  and  that  this  period  could  be  extended  an  additional  three 
months.  Unlike  common  criminals,  such  detainees  did  not  have 
to  be  brought  before  a  judge  within  forty-eight  hours  of  arrest  and 
could  not  challenge  the  basis  of  detention.  Political  prisoners  had 
to  be  informed  of  the  accusations  against  them  after  six  months 
in  detention  and  then  had  to  be  referred  to  a  public  prosecutor  or 
released.  If  charges  were  pressed,  there  was  no  stated  time  period 
within  which  a  trial  had  to  be  held,  and  delays  of  several  years  were 
common. 


251 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 
Prison  System 

Little  information  was  available  on  the  Angolan  prison  system. 
Prisons  were  primitive,  and  authorities  apparently  had  wide  dis- 
cretion in  dealing  with  prisoners.  As  in  most  Third  World  coun- 
tries, prisons  were  designed  for  custodial  and  punitive  purposes, 
not  for  rehabilitation.  Detention  facilities  were  overcrowded,  diets 
were  substandard,  and  sanitation  and  medical  facilities  were  mini- 
mal. Intimidation,  prolonged  interrogations,  torture,  and  maltreat- 
ment, especially  of  political  prisoners,  were  common.  Visits  by 
families,  friends,  and  others  appeared  to  be  restricted  arbitrarily. 
Prisoners  were  sometimes  held  incommunicado  or  moved  from  one 
prison  to  another  without  notification  of  family. 

The  ministries  of  state  security  and  interior  reportedly  ad- 
ministered penal  institutions,  but  their  respective  jurisdictions  were 
unknown.  The  principal  prisons  were  located  in  Luanda,  where 
a  maximum  security  institution  was  opened  in  early  1981,  and  in 
several  provincial  and  local  jurisdictions.  The  main  detention 
centers  for  political  prisoners  were  the  Estrada  de  Catete  prison 
in  the  capital  and  the  Bentiaba  detention  camp  in  Namibe  Province. 
The  government-run  detention  center  at  Tari  in  Cuanza  Sul  Prov- 
ince was  identified  as  one  of  the  main  rural  detention  centers.  Tari 
was  a  former  sisal  plantation  turned  into  a  labor  farm,  where 
prisoners  lived  in  barracks  or  in  their  own  huts  while  doing  forced 
labor.  In  1983  it  was  reported  that  Tari's  prisoners  included  those 
already  sentenced,  awaiting  trial,  or  detained  without  trial  as  secu- 
rity risks.  Political  reeducation,  once  an  integral  element  of  rehabili- 
tation, was  not  widely  or  consistently  practiced.  Foreign  advisers, 
principally  East  German  and  Cuban  security  specialists,  assisted 
in  operating  detention  centers  and  in  training  Angolan  state  secu- 
rity service  personnel.  Elsewhere,  East  Germans  were  reported  to 
be  in  charge  of  a  political  reeducation  camp. 

Incidence  and  Trends  in  Crime 

It  is  difficult  to  generalize  about  the  incidence  of  crime  in  Angola. 
Indeed,  the  government's  characterization  of  UNITA  and  other 
insurgent  groups  as  bandits,  gangsters,  criminals,  puppet  gangs, 
rebels,  and  counterrevolutionaries  suggested  a  complex  mixture 
of  civil,  criminal,  and  political  criteria.  However,  it  is  likely  that 
Angolan  society  exhibited  criminal  patterns  similar  to  those  of 
societies  in  other  developing  countries  experiencing  uncontrolled 
rural- to-urban  migration,  rapid  social  change,  unemployment  and 


252 


Migration  from  rural  areas  to  cities  and  the  consequent 
creation  of  slums,  such  as  those  pictured  above, 
contributed  to  a  rise  in  urban  crime. 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (J.  P.  Laffont) 

underemployment,  the  spread  of  urban  slums,  and  the  lack  or 
breakdown  of  urban  and  social  services.  It  is  also  likely  that  such 
patterns  were  even  more  pronounced  because  of  three  decades  of 
endemic  conflict  and  massive  dislocation.  Historical  and  compara- 
tive patterns  suggest  that  crimes  against  property  increased  with 
urban  growth  and  that  juveniles  accounted  for  most  of  the  increase. 

Available  evidence,  although  fragmentary,  indicated  that  the 
crime  rate  was  rising.  Smuggling,  particularly  of  diamonds  and 
timber,  was  frequently  reported  as  a  major  criminal  offense,  occa- 
sionally involving  senior  government  and  party  officials.  Dealing 
in  illegal  currency  was  another  common  crime.  Persons  acting  as 
police  or  state  security  agents  sometimes  abused  their  writs  by  ille- 
gally entering  homes  and  stealing  property.  Intermittent  police 
crackdowns  on  black  market  activities  had  only  short-term  effects. 
Endemic  production  and  distribution  problems  and  shortages  gave 
rise  to  embezzlement,  pilfering,  and  other  forms  of  criminal  mis- 
appropriation. The  enormous  extent  of  this  problem  was  indicat- 
ed by  an  official  estimate  in  1988  that  40  percent  of  imported  goods 
did  not  reach  their  intended  consumers  because  of  the  highly 
organized  parallel  market  system.  The  government  later  approved 
new  measures  to  combat  economic  crime  on  a  national  scale. 


253 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Human  Rights 

Angola  was  a  signatory  to  several  international  human  rights 
conventions,  including  the  Convention  on  the  Political  Rights  of 
Women  of  1953,  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms 
of  Discrimination  against  Women,  the  Geneva  Conventions  of  1949 
Relative  to  the  Treatment  of  Prisoners  of  War  and  the  Protection 
of  Civilian  Persons  in  Time  of  War,  and  the  Convention  and  Pro- 
tocol Relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  of  1967.  However,  as  of 
1988  Angola  was  not  a  signatory  to  the  Slavery  Conventions  of 
1926  and  1956;  the  Genocide  Convention  of  1948;  or  the  Interna- 
tional Conventions  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  on  Econom- 
ic, Social,  and  Cultural  Rights  of  1966. 

Although  Angola  had  acceded  to  such  conventions,  and  its  Con- 
stitution guarantees  most  human  rights,  actual  observance  was  sub- 
ject to  severe  abridgments,  qualifications,  and  contrary  practices. 
A  human  rights  organization,  Freedom  House,  consistently  gave 
Angola  the  lowest  ratings  on  its  scale  of  political  rights  and  civil 
liberties,  and  The  Economist  World  Human  Rights  Guide  assigned 
Angola  an  overall  rating  of  "poor."  Amnesty  International  and 
the  United  States  Department  of  State  also  issued  reports  highly 
critical  of  human  rights  practices  in  Angola. 

The  lack  or  disregard  of  international  human  rights  standards 
in  Angola  was  evident  in  several  respects.  Arbitrary  arrest  and  im- 
prisonment without  due  process  were  among  the  most  common 
abuses.  Although  Angolan  law  limited  the  amount  of  time  one  could 
be  detained  without  charge,  there  did  not  appear  to  be  a  specific 
period  within  which  a  suspect  had  to  be  tried,  and  as  many  as  several 
hundred  political  prisoners  may  have  been  detained  for  years 
without  trial.  The  regional  military  councils  had  broad  authority 
to  impose  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  people  and  material, 
to  requisition  supplies  and  labor  without  compensation,  and  to  try 
crimes  against  state  security.  The  BPV  also  had  functions  relating 
to  maintenance  of  public  order,  the  exercise  of  which  was  not  sub- 
ject to  normal  judicial  safeguards  and  due  process. 

Constitutional  protections  of  the  inviolability  of  the  home  and 
privacy  of  correspondence  were  routinely  ignored  by  government 
authorities,  who  made  arbitrary  home  searches,  censored  correspon- 
dence, and  monitored  private  communications.  Arbitrary  execu- 
tions of  political  prisoners,  especially  those  accused  of  supporting 
UNITA  or  perpetrating  "economic  crimes,"  occurred  despite 
international  protests  and  periodic  reorganizations  of  the  security 
services.  The  government  maintained  strict  censorship,  did  not 
tolerate  criticism  or  opposition,  and  denied  freedom  of  assembly 


254 


National  Security 


to  any  group  that  was  not  sanctioned  or  sponsored  by  the 
MPLA-PT.  UNIT  A  alleged  that  compulsory  military  service  was 
meted  out  as  punishment  by  the  Ministry  of  State  Security  and 
the  BPV.  Furthermore,  the  government  did  not  permit  the  Inter- 
national Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  access  to  persons  arrested 
for  reasons  related  to  internal  security  or  military  conflict. 

Amnesty  International  also  reported  numerous  instances  of  tor- 
ture during  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s.  Ministry  of  State  Secu- 
rity officials  were  reported  to  have  permitted  or  sanctioned  torture 
of  criminals  and  political  prisoners  by  such  methods  as  beating, 
whipping,  and  electric  shock.  Political  detainees  arrested  for  offenses 
such  as  criticizing  government  policies  were  deprived  of  food  and 
water  for  several  days  and  subjected  to  frequent  and  severe  beat- 
ings during  interrogation  and  confinement.  Although  allegations 
of  torture  and  mistreatment  remained  common  in  the  mid-1980s, 
such  practices  did  not  appear  to  have  been  systematic. 

*    *  * 

There  is  voluminous  material  available  on  Angola's  military  his- 
tory and  contemporary  national  security  affairs.  The  Angolan 
independence  struggle  is  thoroughly  examined  in  John  A.  Mar- 
cum's  two-volume  The  Angolan  Revolution.  The  civil  war  of  1975-76 
is  covered  by  some  of  the  excellent  essays  in  Southern  Africa  since 
the  Portuguese  Coup,  edited  by  John  Seiler.  The  external  dimension 
of  the  civil  war  is  treated  in  Charles  K.  Ebinger's  Foreign  Interven- 
tion in  Civil  War,  Arthur  Jay  Klinghoffer's  The  Angolan  War,  and 
Ernest  Harsch  and  Tony  Thomas's  Angola:  The  Hidden  History  of 
Washington's  War. 

The  UNITA  movement  has  been  extensively  studied  as  well. 
One  sympathetic  treatment  is  Fred  Bridgland's  Jonas  Savimbi.  Two 
excellent  politico-military  analyses  of  the  UNITA  insurgency  are 
Donald  J.  Alberts's  "  Armed  Struggle  in  Angola"  in  Insurgency  in 
the  Modern  World  and  James  W.  Martin  Ill's  unpublished  doctoral 
dissertation,  "UNITA  Insurgency  in  Angola." 

The  human  cost  of  the  war — at  least  in  terms  of  refugees — is 
well  covered  by  the  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees'  Uprooted  Ango- 
lans. The  devastating  economic  impact  of  the  protracted  war  is  most 
fully  and  systematically  examined  in  Tony  Hodges 's  Angola  to  the 
1990s. 

A  standard  reference  work  on  military  forces  and  order  of  bat- 
tle data  is  The  Military  Balance,  issued  annually  by  the  International 
Institute  for  Strategic  Studies.  Supplementary  information  is  avail- 
able in  the  annual  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook,  specialized 


255 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

annuals  such  as  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  Jane's  Weapon  Systems,  and  Jane's 
All  the  World's  Aircraft,  and  Combat  Fleets  of  the  World,  edited  by  Jean 
Labayle  Couhat  and  Bernard  Prezelin.  Other  useful  reference  works 
are  John  M.  Andrade's  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces  and 
Michael  J.  H.  Taylor's  Encyclopedia  of  the  World's  Air  Forces.  Statis- 
tics and  other  information  on  arms  transfers,  military  spending, 
and  armed  forces  are  contained  in  the  United  States  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament  Agency's  annual  World  Military  Expenditures 
and  Arms  Transfers  and  the  Stockholm  International  Peace  Research 
Institute's  annual  SIPRI  Yearbook. 

Internal  security  and  human  rights  conditions  are  evaluated 
annually  in  the  Amnesty  International  Report  and  the  United  States 
Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices. 
Additional  worldwide  human  rights  reviews  are  Charles  Humana' s 
The  Economist  World  Human  Rights  Guide  and  Raymond  D.  Gastil's 
Freedom  in  the  World. 

Finally,  specialized  current  news  sources  and  surveys  are 
indispensable  to  research  on  contemporary  national  security  affairs. 
The  most  relevant  and  accessible  include  the  annual  Africa  Contem- 
porary Record  and  periodicals  such  as  Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Africa 
Confidential,  Africa  Diary,  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Weekly,  Jane's 
Defence  Weekly,  and  International  Defense  Review.  The  most  useful 
sources  are  African  Defence  Journal  and  its  sister  publication,  Afrique 
Defense.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bib- 
liography.) 


256 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Urban-Rural  Breakdown  of  Population  by  Province,  1988 

3  Major  Civilian  Hospitals  by  Province,  1988 

4  Revenues,  Expenditures,  and  Deficits,  1980-86 

5  Agricultural  Production  Marketed  by  State  Enterprises, 

1982-85 

6  Value  of  Exports,  1980-86 

7  Multilateral  Development  Assistance,  1979-84 

8  Crude  Oil  Production  by  Area,  1981-85 

9  Production  and  Exports  of  Diamonds,  1977-87 

10  Coffee  Production,  Exports,  and  Closing  Stocks,  1971-86 

11  Balance  of  Payments,  1982-85 

12  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 

13  Major  Air  Force  and  Air  Defense  Force  Equipment,  1988 

14  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1988 


257 


Appendix  A 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


259 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Table  2.  Urban-Rural  Breakdown  of  Population  by  Province,  1988 


Province  Urban  1  Rural  2  Total 

Bengo    18,700  137,400  156,100 

Benguela    297,700  308,800  606,500 

Bie    201,600  842,400  1,044,000 

Cabinda   73,600  73,600  147,200 

Cuando  Cubango   3,600  122,000  125,600 

Cuanza  Norte    18,000  347,100  365,100 

CuanzaSul    52,700  576,600  629,300 

Cunene    4,600  215,200  219,800 

Huambo    214,400  1,201,900  1,416,300 

Hufla    250,800  578,200  829,000 

Luanda    1,363,900  15,900  1,379,800 

Lunda  Norte    36,300  243,000  279,300 

Lunda  Sul    80,000  71,400  151,400 

Malanje    174,900  643,400  818,300 

Moxico    39,600  255,700  295,300 

Namibe    75,200  27,500  102,700 

Ui'ge   211,000  550,100  761,100 

Zaire      92,800  63,700  156,500 


TOTAL   3,209,400  6,273,900  9,483,300 


1  Includes  cities  and  towns. 

2  Includes  villages  and  open  countryside. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States  Private  Voluntary  Agency,  United  States 
Government  Assessment  Team  to  Angola,  "Final  Report,"  October  25,  1988, 
Annex  B,  B-2. 


260 


Appendix  A 


Table  3.  Major  Civilian  Hospitals  by  Province,  1988  1 

Province  Number  of 

City  Name  Beds  Services 


Bengo 
Caxito 


Benguela 
Benguela 


Lobito 


Bie 

Catabola 

Chissamba 


Kuito 


Cabinda 
Cabinda 


Civilian  Hospital 


Central  Hospital 


Civilian  Hospital 


Catabola  Municipal 

Hospital 
Civilian  Hospital 


Regional  Hospital 


Lombe-Lombe 
Hospital 


120 


250 


190 


80 
140 


Cuando  Cubango 

Menongue  Regional  Hospital 


Huambo 
Huambo 


Huambo  Hospital 


130 


600 


Longonjo 


Huila 

Caluquembe 


Lubango 


Bongo  Mission 
Hospital 


Missionary 
Hospital 


Central  Hospital 


100 


129 


240 


General  medical, 

surgical,  X-ray,  and 
laboratory. 

General  medical, 

X-ray,  and 

laboratory; 

staffed  by  Cuban 

personnel. 
General  medical, 

surgical,  X-ray,  and 

laboratory. 


General  medical. 
General  medical, 

surgical,  X-ray,  and 

laboratory. 
General  medical, 

surgical,  X-ray, 

and  laboratory. 


General  medical, 
surgical,  and 
teaching  facility  for 
rural  workers. 


General  medical, 
surgical,  X-ray, 
laboratory. 


and 


General  medical, 
orthopedic;  depends 
on  UNICEF  and 
International 
Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross  for 
equipment  and 
food.  2 

General  medical 
Seventh-Day 
Adventists  hospital. 

General  medical, 
surgical,  and  teach- 
ing facility  for  rural 
workers. 

General  medical, 
surgical,  X-ray, 
and  laboratory. 


261 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  — Continued. 


Province 
City 


Name 


Number  of 
Beds 


Services 


Luanda 
Luanda 


-do- 


-do- 

Lunda  Sul 
Saurimo 


Namibe 
Namibe 


Ufge 
Ufge 


Americo  Boavoia 
Hospital 

University  Hospital 


Central  Hospital 
Regional  Hospital 


N'Gola  Kimbanda 
Hospital 


Ufge  Regional 
Hospital 


600 


500 


120 


100 


General  medical, 
surgical,  X-ray, 
and  laboratory. 

General  medical, 
surgical,  X-ray, 
laboratory,  and 
teaching  facility. 

General  medical. 


General  medical, 
surgical,  X-ray, 
laboratory. 


General  medical, 
X-ray,  and 
laboratory; 
staffed  by  13 
specialized 
physicians. 


General  medical, 
X-ray,  and 
laboratory. 


and 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  Does  not  include  hospitals  in  areas  claimed  by  the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of 
Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNITA). 

2  UNICEF— United  Nations  Children's  Fund. 


262 


Appendix  A 


Table  4.  Revenues,  Expenditures,  and  Deficits,  1980-86 
(in  billions  of  kwanzas)  1 

1980    1981     1982    1983    1984    1985  1986 


Revenues 

State  enterprises    10.4  11.1  11.1  10.1  10.4  12.1  18.1 

Taxes    41.9  53.3  32.3  38.7  54.4  56.4  35.1 

Other    JL9  JL2  _618  _9A  HLO  17.3 

Total  revenues  2    60.1  73.7  50.7  55.6  74.6  78.5  70.5 

Expenditures 

Economic  development  f  28.4  43.4  26.3  17.9  22.0  23.4  14.8 

Social  services   13.7  13.8  15.1  14.8  17.3  18.7  21.4 

Defense  and  security    15.0  15.0  15.0  23.3  29.4  34.4  34.6 

Administration    17.0  11.8  13.7  9.2  9.5  9.9  9.8 

Other    13A  JU  _2A  _2A  _jkl_  4.8 

Total  expenditures  2    87.2  91.6  72.1  67.6  82.3  90.4  85.5 

Deficits   27.1  17.9  21.4  12.0  7.7  11.9  15.0 


1  For  value  of  the  kwanza — see  Glossary. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  42; 
and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [Lon- 
don], No.  2,  1987,  12. 


Table  5.  Agricultural  Production  Marketed  by 


State  Enterprises,  1982-85 
(in  tons) 

Commodity 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

  3,130 

2,130 

290 

254 

Bananas   

  11,000 

15,290 

10,775 

21,094 

  12,790 

8,370 

3,336 

5,309 

Coffee   

  23,470 

15,630 

10,589 

13,686 

  3,320 

2,290 

2,435 

2,291 

  14,370 

16,920 

9,866 

16,982 

  17,610 

6,730 

4,164 

5,522 

Maize   

  32,570 

22,700 

16,343 

11,935 

  2,500 

2,440 

1,532 

1,190 

  4,600 

3,140 

1,725 

285 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London],  No.  1,  1987,  16. 


263 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Table  6.  Value  of  Exports,  1980-86 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Commodity  1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985  1986 


Crude  oil   1,391  1,345  1,234  1,526  1,748  1,905  1,240 

Refined  oil  and  lique- 
fied petroleum  gas  .  98  101  60  120  122  128  80 

Coffee    164  97  95  71  80  55  60 

Diamonds    226  179  104  90  64  33  15 

Other   9  6  4  3  3  4  5 


TOTAL*   1,888      1,727      1,497      1,810      2,018      2,125  1,400 


*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  123; 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London], 
No.  1,  1987,  13;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe  [London],  No.  4,  1987,  2. 


Table  7.  Multilateral  Development  Assistance,  1979-84 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

Donor                                                   1979       1980       1981        1982  1983  1984 
United  Nations 

World  Food  Programme                     5.0        3.1        4.8        6.1  8.5  9.5 

Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for 

Refugees                                        4.3        4.5        3.8        3.7  5.0  6.0 

United  Nations  Development 

Programme                                   2.7        4.1        6.0        4.8  5.3  3.4 

United  Nations  Children's 

Fund                                           4.7        3.2        2.5        1.7  3.0  3.3 

European  Community                          0.6        1.0        3.2        1.6  2.5  9.7 

Arab  Organization  of 
Petroleum  Exporting 

Countries                                       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.  1.8  1.1 

TOTAL                                           17.3      15.9      20.3       17.9  26.1  33.0 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  129. 


264 


Appendix  A 


Table  8.  Crude  Oil  Production  by  Area,  1981-85 
(in  thousands  of  barrels  per  day) 


Area  1981         1982         1983         1984  1985 


Cabinda    85.6  80.5  130.3  58.4  165.2 

Block  2   5.1  12.7  12.1         9.3  7.2 

Block  3    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0  23.8 

Congo  River  Basin   34.9  32.4  30.7  31.9  31.7 

Cuanza  River  Basin   3.7  4.0  4.9         4.5  4.0 


TOTAL*    129.4      129.6      178.0      204.0  231.9 


*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  58. 


Table  9.  Production  and  Exports  of  Diamonds,  1977-87 


Production    Exports 


Year 

Volume  1 

Value  2 

Volume  1 

Value  2 

1977   

  333 

885 

337 

847 

1978   

  707 

3,512 

689 

3,325 

1979   

  839 

4,365 

791 

4,225 

1980   

  1,479 

6,929 

1,460 

6,767 

1981   

  1,397 

4,959 

1,409 

5,350 

1982   

  1,221 

3,063 

1,260 

3,099 

1983   

  1,030 

2,784 

1,002 

2,704 

1984   

  920 

1,764 

954 

1,921 

1985   

  714 

945 

741 

977 

1986   

  400 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

1987   

  750 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  In  thousands  of  carats. 

2  In  millions  of  kwanzas  (for  value  of  the  kwanza — see  Glossary). 


Source:  Based  on  information, from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  75; 

and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [Lon- 
don], No.  4,  1987,  17. 


265 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Coffee  Production,  Exports, 
and  Closing  Stocks,  1971-86 
(in  thousands  of  bags) 


Year  Production  Exports  Closing  Stocks  1 


1971    3,888  3,019  4,785 

1972    4,031  3,097  5,619 

1973    3,500  4,135  4,942 

1974    3,206  2,961  5,147 

1975    1,062  2,600  3,574 

1976    958  1,123  3,379 

1977    951  963  3,342 

1978    572  1,245  2,644 

1979    289  1,012  1,896 

1980    721  661  1,931 

1981    344  850  1,399 

1982    290  620  1,024 

1983    214  440  778 

1984    254  370  616 

1985    214  333  477 

1986  2   .-.  270  313  414 


1  Coffee  held  in  storage  at  end  of  year. 

2  Government  forecast. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  92. 


Table  11.  Balance  of  Payments,  1982-85 
(in  billions  of  kwanzas)  1 


1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

  44.7 

47.5 

58.8 

59.3 

  33.7 

29.7 

38.0 

41.2 

  11.0 

17.8 

20.9 

18.0 

  19.0 

19.8 

23.6 

26.5 

  -7.2 

-1.0 

-1.7 

-7.0 

  3.0 

1.6 

6.1 

6.7 

  3.2 

3.3 

5.2 

6.1 

1  For  value  of  the  kwanza — see  Glossary. 

2  Free  on  board. 

3  Figures  may  not  result  in  balance  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Tony  Hodges,  Angola  to  the  1990s,  London,  1987,  42-43. 


266 


Appendix  A 

Table  12.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 


Type  In  Inventory 


Main  battle  tanks 

T-34    100 

T-54/-55    300 

T-62    100  + 

T-72    n.a. 

Light  tanks 

PT-76    50 

Armored  vehicles 

BRDM-1/-2    200  + 

AML-60/-90    n.a. 

BTR-40/-50/-60/-152    255 

BMP-2   65 

Panhard  M3   n.a. 

Artillery 

Assortment  of  76mm,  85mm,  100mm,  122mm,  130mm, 

and  152mm  guns    500 

SU-100  (self-propelled)   n.a. 

BM-21/-24  multiple  rocket  launchers    75 

1 20mm  mortars    40  + 

82mm  mortars    460 

Antitank  weapons 

AT-3    n.a. 

75mm,  82mm,  and  107mm  recoilless  rifles    900 

Air  defense  guns 

ZSU-23-4  (self-propelled)    20 

ZSU-57-2  (self-propelled)    40 

S-60   70 

ZPU-1/-2/-4    n.a. 

ZU-23-2    n.a. 

M-1939    n.a. 

M-55    n.a. 

Surface-to-air  missiles 

SA-7/-4    n.a. 


n.a. — not  available. 


267 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Major  Air  Force  and  Air  Defense 
Force  Equipment,  1988 


Type  In  Inventory 


Attack  aircraft 

MiG-23  Flogger    55 

MiG-21MF  Fishbed    60 

Su-22  Fitter    7 

Interceptors 

MiG-17F  Fresco   20 

MiG-19  Farmer    8 

MiG-21bis  Fishbed   30 

Counterinsurgency  and  reconnaissance 

PC -7  Turbo-Trainer    8 

Maritime  patrol 

Fokker  F-27MPA  Friendship   1 

EMB-111  Bandeirante    2 

Fixed-wing  transports 

Douglas  C-47  Dakota    3 

CASA  C-212  Aviocar    11 

L- 100-30    1  or  2 

Do-27   5 

Nord  262    4 

BN-2A  Islander    13 

TU-134A  Crusty    1 

Yak-40  Codling    1 

Commander  690A    1 

PC-6B  Turbo-Porter    4 

An-2  Colt   10 

An-12  Cub   2 

An-26  Curl   33 

An-32  Cline    3 

Trainers 

MiG-15UTI  Midget   3 

Yak-il  Moose    6 

Cessna  172    3 

PC-7    11 

PC-9   4 

Helicopters 

Mi-8  Hip    50 

Mi- 17    13 

Mi-24  Hind  C    27 

Mi-25    21 

SA-316B  Alouette  III   24 

IAR-316B  Alouette  III    16 

SA-342  Gazelle    5 

SA-365N  Dauphin   8 

SA-315B  Lama    1 


268 


Appendix  A 

Table  13. — Continued. 


Type  In  Inventory 


Surface-to-air  missiles 

SA-2  Guideline    12 

SA-3  Goa   40 

SA-6  Gainful    72 

SA-8  Gecko    48 

SA-9  Gaskin    n.a. 

SA-13  Gopher    n.a. 


n.a. — not  available. 


Table  14.  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1988 


Type  In  Inventory 


Fast  missile  craft 

OSA-II  with  four  SS-N-2 

Styx  missiles   6 

Fast  torpedo  craft 

Shershen  with  four  533mm  heavyweight  torpedo  tubes    4  or  5 

Inland-water  and  coastal  patrol  boats 

Argos    4 

Poluchat-I   2 

Zhuk    1  or  2 

Jupiter    1  or  2 

Bellatrix    4  or  5 

Mine  warfare  craft 

Yevgenya  MH1    2 

Amphibious  vessels 

Polnocny-B   3 

Alfrange    1 

LCT   1 

T-4    4  or  5 

LDM-400   9  or  10 

Coastal  defense  equipment 

SS-C1  Sepal  radar  system  at  Luanda    1 


269 


Appendix  B 


1988  REGIONAL  ACCORDS 

Tripartite  Agreement,  December  22,  1988 

AGREEMENT  AMONG  THE  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF 
ANGOLA,  THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CUBA,  AND 
THE  REPUBLIC  OF  SOUTH  AFRICA 

The  Governments  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola,  the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  and  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  hereinafter 
designated  as  "the  Parties," 

Taking  into  account  the  "Principles  for  a  Peaceful  Settlement 
in  Southwestern  Africa,"  approved  by  the  Parties  on  20  July  1988, 
and  the  subsequent  negotiations  with  respect  to  the  implementa- 
tion of  these  Principles,  each  of  which  is  indispensable  to  a  com- 
prehensive settlement, 

Considering  the  acceptance  by  the  Parties  of  the  implementa- 
tion of  United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolution  435  (1978), 
adopted  on  29  September  1978,  hereinafter  designated  as  "UNSCR 
435/78," 

Considering  the  conclusion  of  the  bilateral  agreement  between 
the  People's  Republic  of  Angola  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba  provid- 
ing for  the  redeployment  toward  the  north  and  the  staged  and  total 
withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops  from  the  territory  of  the  People's 
Republic  of  Angola, 

Recognizing  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council  in 
implementing  UNSCR  435/78  and  in  supporting  the  implemen- 
tation of  the  present  agreement, 

Affirming  the  sovereignty,  sovereign  equality,  and  independence 
of  all  states  of  southwestern  Africa, 

Affirming  the  principle  of  noninterference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  states, 

Affirming  the  principle  of  abstention  from  the  threat  or  use  of 
force  against  the  territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of 
states, 

Reaffirming  the  right  of  the  peoples  of  the  southwestern  region 
of  Africa  to  self-detennination,  independence,  and  equality  of  rights, 
and  of  the  states  of  southwestern  Africa  to  peace,  development, 
and  social  progress, 

Urging  African  and  international  cooperation  for  the  settlement 


271 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


of  the  problems  of  the  development  of  the  southwestern  region  of 
Africa, 

Expressing  their  appreciation  for  the  mediating  role  of  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America, 

Desiring  to  contribute  to  the  establishment  of  peace  and  security 
in  southwestern  Africa, 

Agree  to  the  provisions  set  forth  below: 

(1)  The  Parties  shall  immediately  request  the  Secretary  General 
of  the  United  Nations  to  seek  authority  from  the  Security  Council 
to  commence  implementation  of  UNSCR  435/78  on  1  April  1989. 

(2)  All  military  forces  of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  shall  depart 
Namibia  in  accordance  with  UNSCR  435/78. 

(3)  Consistent  with  the  provisions  of  UNSCR  435/78,  the  Repub- 
lic of  South  Africa  and  People's  Republic  of  Angola  shall  cooper- 
ate with  the  Secretary  General  to  ensure  the  independence  of 
Namibia  through  free  and  fair  elections  and  shall  abstain  from  any 
action  that  could  prevent  the  execution  of  UNSCR  435/78.  The 
Parties  shall  respect  the  territorial  integrity  and  inviolability  of  bor- 
ders of  Namibia  and  shall  ensure  that  their  territories  are  not  used 
by  any  state,  organization,  or  person  in  connection  with  acts  of 
war,  aggression,  or  violence  against  the  territorial  integrity  or 
inviolability  of  borders  of  Namibia  or  any  other  action  which  could 
prevent  the  execution  of  UNSCR  435/78. 

(4)  The  People's  Republic  of  Angola  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba 
shall  implement  the  bilateral  agreement,  signed  on  the  date  of  sig- 
nature of  this  agreement,  providing  for  the  redeployment  toward 
the  north  and  the  staged  and  total  withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops  from 
the  territory  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola,  and  the  arrange- 
ments made  with  the  Security  Council  of  the  United  Nations  for 
the  on-site  verification  of  that  withdrawal. 

(5)  Consistent  with  their  obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  Parties  shall  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of 
force,  and  shall  ensure  that  their  respective  territories  are  not  used 
by  any  state,  organization,  or  person  in  connection  with  any  acts 
of  war,  aggression,  or  violence,  against  the  territorial  integrity, 
inviolability  of  borders,  or  independence  of  any  state  of  southwestern 
Africa. 

(6)  The  Parties  shall  respect  the  principle  of  noninterference  in 
the  internal  affairs  of  the  states  of  southwestern  Africa. 

(7)  The  Parties  shall  comply  in  good  faith  with  all  obligations 
undertaken  in  this  agreement  and  shall  resolve  through  negotia- 
tion and  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  any  disputes  with  respect  to  the 
interpretation  or  implementation  thereof. 

(8)  This  agreement  shall  enter  into  force  upon  signature. 


272 


Appendix  B 


Signed  at  New  York  in  triplicate  in  the  Portuguese,  Spanish, 
and  English  languages,  each  language  being  equally  authentic,  this 
22nd  day  of  December  1988. 

FOR  THE  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA 
Afonso  Van  Dunem 
FOR  THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CUBA 
Isidoro  Octavio  Malmierca 
FOR  THE  REPUBLIC  OF  SOUTH  AFRICA 
Roelof  F.  Botha 

Bilateral  Agreement,  December  22,  1988 

Following  is  the  unofficial  United  States  translation  of  the  original 
Portuguese  and  Spanish  texts  of  the  agreement,  with  annex. 

AGREEMENT  BETWEEN  THE 
GOVERNMENTS  OF  THE  PEOPLE'S 
REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA  AND  THE 
REPUBLIC  OF  CUBA  FOR  THE 
TERMINATION  OF  THE 
INTERNATIONALIST  MISSION  OF  THE 
CUBAN  MILITARY  CONTINGENT 

The  Governments  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola  and  the 
Republic  of  Cuba  hereinafter  designated  as  the  Parties, 
Considering, 

That  the  implementation  of  Resolution  435  of  the  Security  Coun- 
cil of  the  United  Nations  for  the  independence  of  Namibia  shall 
commence  on  the  1st  of  April, 

That  the  question  of  the  independence  of  Namibia  and  the 
safeguarding  of  the  sovereignty,  independence,  and  territorial  in- 
tegrity of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola  are  closely  interrelated 
with  each  other  and  with  peace  and  security  in  the  region  of  south- 
western Africa. 

That  on  the  date  of  signature  of  this  agreement  a  tripartite  agree- 
ment among  the  Governments  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Ango- 
la, the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and  Republic  of  South  Africa  shall  be 
signed,  containing  the  essential  elements  for  the  achievement  of 
peace  in  the  region  of  southwestern  Africa, 

That  acceptance  of  and  strict  compliance  with  the  foregoing  will 
bring  to  an  end  the  reasons  which  compelled  the  Government  of 
the  People's  Republic  of  Angola  to  request,  in  the  legitimate  exer- 
cise of  its  rights  under  Article  51  of  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
the  deployment  of  Angolan  territory  of  a  Cuban  internationalist 


273 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

military  contingent  to  guarantee,  in  cooperation  with  the  FAPLA 
[the  Angolan  Government  army],  its  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty  in  view  of  the  invasion  and  occupation  of  part  of  its 
territory, 
Noting, 

The  agreements  signed  by  the  Governments  of  the  People's 
Republic  of  Angola  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba  on  4  February  1982 
and  19  March  1984,  the  platform  of  the  Government  of  the  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of  Angola  approved  in  November  1984,  and  the 
Protocol  of  Brazzaville  signed  by  the  Governments  of  the  People's 
Republic  of  Angola,  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa  on  December  13,  1988, 

Taking  into  account, 

That  conditions  now  exist  which  make  possible  the  repatriation 
of  the  Cuban  military  contingent  currently  in  Angolan  territory 
and  the  successful  accomplishment  of  their  internationalist  mission, 

The  Parties  agree  as  follows: 

Article  1 

To  commence  the  redeployment  by  stages  to  the  15th  and  13th 
parallels  and  the  total  withdrawal  to  Cuba  of  the  50,000  men  who 
constitute  the  Cuban  troops  contingent  stationed  in  the  People's 
Republic  of  Angola,  in  accordance  with  the  pace  and  time  frame 
established  in  the  attached  calendar,  which  is  an  integral  part  of 
this  agreement.  The  total  withdrawal  shall  be  completed  by  the 
1st  of  July,  1991. 

Article  2 

The  Governments  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola  and  the 
Republic  of  Cuba  reserve  the  right  to  modify  or  alter  their  obliga- 
tions deriving  from  Article  1  of  this  agreement  in  the  event  that 
flagrant  violations  of  the  tripartite  agreement  are  verified. 

Article  3 

The  Parties,  through  the  Secretary  General  of  the  United 
Nations,  hereby  request  that  the  Security  Council  verify  the 
redeployment  and  phased  and  total  withdrawal  of  Cuban  troops 
from  the  territory  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola,  and  to  this 
end  shall  agree  on  a  matching  protocol. 

Article  4 

This  agreement  shall  enter  into  force  upon  signature  of  the  tripar- 
tite agreement  among  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola,  the  Repub- 
lic of  Cuba,  and  the  Republic  of  South  Africa. 

Signed  on  22  December  1988,  at  the  Headquarters  of  the  United 


274 


Appendix  B 


Nations,  in  two  copies,  in  the  Portuguese  and  Spanish  languages, 
each  being  equally  authentic. 

FOR  THE  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA 
Afonso  Van  Dunem 
FOR  THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CUBA 

Isidoro  Octavio  Malmierca 

Annex  on  Troop  Withdrawal  Schedule 

CALENDAR 

In  compliance  with  Article  1  of  the  agreement  between  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  Government  of  the 
People's  Republic  of  Angola  for  the  termination  of  the  mission  of 
the  Cuban  internationalist  military  contingent  stationed  in  Ango- 
lan territory,  the  Parties  establish  the  following  calendar  for  the 
withdrawal: 

Time  Frames 

Prior  to  the  first  of  April,  1989 

(date  of  the  beginning  of  imple- 
mentation of  Resolution  435) 
Total  duration  of  the  calendar 

Starting  from  the  first  of  April,  1989 
Redeployment  to  the  north: 

to  the  15th  parallel  by 

to  the  13th  parallel  by 
Total  men  to  be  withdrawn: 

by  1  November  1989 

by  1  April  1990 

by  1  October  1990 

by  July  1991 


3,000  men 

27  months 

1  August  1989 
31  October  1989 

25,000  men 
33,000  men 
38,000  men 
50,000  men 


Taking  as  its  base  a  Cuban  force  of  50,000  men. 


275 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abshire,  David  M.,  and  Michael  A.  Samuels.  "The  Continuing 
Crisis  in  Angola,"  Current  History,  82,  No.  482,  March  1983, 
124-25,  128,  138. 

Abshire,  David  M.,  and  Michael  A.  Samuels  (eds.).  Portuguese 
Africa:  A  Handbook.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 

"Angola."  Pages  B667-87  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contem- 
porary Record:  Annual  Survey  and  Documents,  1979-80.  New  York: 
Africana,  1981. 

"Angola:  Post-Neto  Reverberations,"  Africa  Confidential  [London], 

20,  No.  20,  October  3,  1979,  1-4. 
"Angola:  A  State  of  Flux,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  22,  No. 

9,  April  22,  1981,  1-3. 
"Angola:  Talks  about  Talks,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  23,  No. 

8,  April  14,  1982,  1-3. 
Axelson,  Eric.  Portugal  and  the  Scramble  for  Africa,  1875-1891. 

Johannesburg:  Witwatersrand  University  Press,  1967. 
Bender,  Gerald  J.  Angola  under  the  Portuguese:  The  Myth  and  the  Real- 
ity. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1978. 
 "Planned  Rural  Settlements  in  Angola,  1900-1969." 

Pages  235-79  in  Franz-Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social  Change  in 

Angola.  Munich:  Weltforum  Verlag,  1973. 
Birmingham,  David.  "The  African  Response  to  Early  Portuguese 

Activities  in  Angola."  Pages  11-28  in  Ronald  H.  Chilcote  (ed.), 

Protest  and  Resistance  in  Angola  and  Brazil:  Comparative  Studies. 

Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 
 "Central  Africa  from  Cameroun  to  the  Zambezi."  Pages 

325-83  in  Richard  Gray  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  c. 

1600  to  c.  1790,  4.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1975. 
 .  "The  Date  and  Significance  of  the  Imbangala  Invasion 

of  Angola,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  6,  No.  2,  1965, 

143-52. 

 The  Portuguese  Conquest  of  Angola.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1965. 

Boxer,  C.R.  The  Portuguese  Seaborne  Empire,  1415-1825.  New  York: 
Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1969. 

 Race  Relations  in  the  Portuguese  Colonial  Empire,  1415-1825. 

Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1963. 


277 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


 Salvador  de  Sd  and  the  Struggle  for  Angola  and  Brazil.  London: 

Athlone,  1952. 

Bruce,  Neil.  Portugal:  The  Last  Empire.  New  York:  John  Wiley  and 
Sons,  1975. 

Centro  de  Estudos  Angolanos.  Historia  de  Angola.  Porto,  Portugal: 
Edicoes  Afrontamento,  1965. 

Chilcote,  Ronald  H.  (ed.).  Protest  and  Resistance  in  Angola  and  Brazil: 
Comparative  Studies.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 

Clough,  Michael.  "United  States  Policy  in  Southern  Africa,"  Cur- 
rent History,  83,  No.  491,  March  1984,  97-100,  135. 

Davidson,  Basil.  A  History  of  East  and  Central  Africa  to  the  Late  Nineteenth 
Century.  Garden  City,  New  York:  Doubleday,  1969. 

-  In  the  Eye  of  the  Storm:  Angola's  People.  Garden  City,  New 
York:  Doubleday,  1972. 

Delgado,  Ralph.  Historia  de  Angola.  (4  vols.)  Benguela:  Edicao  da 
Tipografia,  do  Jornal  de  Benguela,  1948-53. 

Dias,  Jill  R.  "Black  Chiefs,  White  Traders,  and  Colonial  Policy 
near  Kwanza:  Kabuku  Kambilo  and  the  Portuguese,  1873- 
1896,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  17,  No.  2,  1976,  245-65. 

Duffy,  James.  Portugal  in  Africa.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1962. 

.  Portuguese  Africa.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press, 
1959. 

.  "Portuguese  Africa,  1930  to  1960."  Pages  171-93  in  L.H. 
Gann  and  Peter  Duignan  (eds.),  Colonialism  in  Africa,  1870-1960, 
2.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Quarterly  Economic  Review  of  Angola, 
Guinea  Bissau,  Cape  Verde,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London],  Second 
Quarter,  1981,  6-14. 

 .  Quarterly  Economic  Review  of  Angola,  Guinea  Bissau,  Cape  Verde, 

Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London],  First  Quarter,  1986,  7-14. 
Ehnmark,  Andres,  and  Per  Wastberg.  Angola  and  Mozambique:  The 

Case  Against  Portugal.  New  York:  Roy,  1963. 
Falk,  Pamela  S.  "Cuba  in  Africa,"  Foreign  Affairs,  65,  No.  5,  Sum- 
mer 1987,  1077-96. 
Gunn,  Gillian.  "Cuba  and  Angola."  Pages  71-82  in  Helen  Kit- 
chen (ed.),  Angola,  Mozambique,  and  the  West.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1987. 

Hammond,  Richard  J.  Portugal  and  Africa,  1816-1910:  A  Study  in 
Uneconomic  Imperialism.  Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1966. 

.  "Some  Economic  Aspects  of  Portuguese  Africa  in  the 
Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries."  Pages  256-80  in  L.H. 
Gann  and  Peter  Duignan  (eds.),  Colonialism  in  Africa,  1870-1960, 
4.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1975. 


278 


Bibliography 


 "Uneconomic  Imperialism:  Portugal  in  Africa  Before 

1910."  Pages  352-82  in  L.H.  Gann  and  Peter  Duignan  (eds.), 
Colonialism  in  Africa,  1870-1960,  1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1969. 

Henderson,  Lawrence  W.  Angola:  Five  Centuries  of  Conflict.  Ithaca: 
Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Hodges,  Tony.  Angola  to  the  1990s:  The  Potential  for  Recovery.  (Spe- 
cial Report  No.  1079.)  London:  Economist,  1987. 

Humbaraci,  Arslan,  and  Nicole  Muchnik.  Portugal's  African  Wars. 
New  York:  Joseph  Okpaku,  1974. 

Keefe,  Eugene  K.,  David  P.  Coffin,  Sallie  M.  Hicks,  William  A. 
Mussen,  Jr.,  Robert  Rinehart,  and  William  J .  Simon.  Portugal: 
A  Country  Study.  (DA  Pam  550-181 .)  Washington:  GPO  for  For- 
eign Area  Studies,  The  American  University,  1976. 

Kitchen,  Helen  (ed.).  Angola,  Mozambique,  and  the  West.  (Washing- 
ton Papers  Series,  130.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1987. 

Klinghoffer,  Arthur  Jay.  The  Angolan  War:  A  Study  in  Soviet  Policy 
in  the  Third  World.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Marcum,  John  A.  "Angola:  Twenty-five  Years  of  War,"  Current 
History,  85,  No.  511,  May  1986,  193-96,  229-31. 

 The  Angolan  Revolution,  1:  The  Anatomy  of  an  Explosion 

(1950-1962).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1969. 

 The  Angolan  Revolution,  2:  Exile  Politics  and  Guerrilla  Warfare 

(1962-1976).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1978. 

 "Bipolar  Dependency:  The  People's  Republic  of  Ango- 
la." Pages  12-30  in  Michael  Clough  (ed.),  Reassessing  the  Soviet 
Challenge  in  Africa.  Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies, 
University  of  California,  1986. 

 "Radical  Vision  Frustrated:  Angola  and  Cuba."  (Paper 

presented  to  Seminar  on  Cuban  Internationalism  in  Sub-Saharan 
Africa  sponsored  by  Radio  Marti  Program,  United  States  Infor- 
mation Agency,  January  23,  1987.)  Washington:  January  1987. 

Martin,  Phyllis  M.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Angola.  (African  Histori- 
cal Dictionaries,  No.  26.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow 
Press,  1980. 

Miller,  Joseph  C.  "Cokwe  Trade  and  Conquest  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century."  Pages  175-201  in  Richard  Gray  and  David  Birming- 
ham (eds.),  Pre-Colonial  African  Trade.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1970. 

 "The  Imbangala  and  the  Chronology  of  Early  Central 

African  History,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  13,  No. 
4,  1972,  594-674. 

 Kings  and  Kinsmen:  Early  Mbundu  States  in  Angola.  Oxford: 

Clarendon,  Press,  1976. 


279 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

 .  "Nzinga  of  Matamba  in  a  New  Perspective,"  Journal  of 

African  History  [London],  16,  No.  2,  1975,  201-16. 

 "Requiem  for  the  'Jaga' , ' '  Cahiers  d 'etudes  africaines  [Paris] , 

13,  No.  1,  1973,  121-49. 

 "Slaves,  Slavers,  and  Social  Change  in  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury Kasanje."  Pages  9-29  in  Franz- Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social 
Change  in  Angola.  Munich:  Weltforum  Verlag,  1973. 

 Way  of  Death:  Merchant  Capitalism  and  the  Angolan  Slave  Trade. 

Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1988. 

Newitt,  Malyn.  Portugal  in  Africa:  The  Last  Hundred  Years.  London: 
C.  Hurst,  1981. 

Oliver,  Roland.  "The  Problem  of  Bantu  Expansion,"  Journal  of 
African  History  [London],  7,  No.  3,  1966,  361-76. 

Oliver,  Roland,  and  Brian  M.  Fagan.  Africa  in  the  Iron  Age,  c.  500 
B.C.  to  A.D.  1400.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1975. 

Pelissier,  Rene.  "Evolution  des  mouvements  ethno-nationalistes 
Bakongo  d' Angola  avant  la  revoke  du  nord-ouest  (1961),"  Revue 
frangaise  d} etudes  politiques  africaines  [Paris],  10,  No.  Ill,  March 
1975,  81-103. 

Porter,  Bruce  D.  The  USSR  in  Third  World  Conflicts:  Soviet  Arms  and 
Diplomacy  in  Local  Wars,  1945-1980.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1984. 

Rodney,  Walter.  "European  Activity  and  African  Reaction  in 
Angola."  Pages  49-70  in  T.O.  Ranger  (ed.),  Aspects  of  Cen- 
tral African  History.  Evanston:  Northwestern  University  Press, 
1968. 

Smith,  Alan  K.  "Antonio  Salazar  and  the  Reversal  of  Portuguese 
Colonial  Policy,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  15,  No. 
4,  1974,  653-67.  " 

Somerville,  Keith.  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist 
Regimes  Series.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Sykes,  John.  Portugal  and  Africa.  London:  Hutchinson,  1971. 

Teixeira,  Bernardo.  The  Fabric  of  Terror:  Three  Days  in  Angola.  New 
York:  Devin- Adair,  1965. 

Thornton,  John.  "Demography  and  History  in  the  Kingdom  of 
Kongo,  1550-1750,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  18,  No. 
4,  1977,  507-30. 

Turner,  Victor  (ed.).  Profiles  of  Change:  African  Society  and  Colonial 
Rule.  In  L.H.  Gann  and  Peter  Duignan  (eds.),  Colonialism  in  Afri- 
ca. 1870-1960,  3.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1971. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Office 
of  Public  Communication.  Background  Notes:  Angola.  (Department 


280 


Bibliography 


of  State  Publication  No.  7975.)  Washington:  GPO,  June  1987. 
Vansina,  Jan.  Kingdoms  of  the  Savanna:  A  History  of  Central  African 
States  until  European  Occupation.  Madison:  University  of  Wiscon- 
sin Press,  1968. 

 .  4  'More  on  the  Invasions  of  Kongo  and  Angola  by  the  Jaga 

and  the  Lunda,"  Journal  of  African  History  [London],  7,  No.  3, 
1966,  421-29. 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.,  and  C.  Diane  Christensen.  "To  Rise  with 
One  Mind:  The  Bailundu  War  of  1902."  Pages  54-92  in  Franz- 
Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social  Change  in  Angola.  Munich:  Welt- 
forum  Verlag,  1973. 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.,  and  Rene  Pelissier.  Angola.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1971.  " 

Young,  Thomas.  "Angola:  Recent  History."  Pages  224-28  m  Africa 
South  of  the  Sahara,  1986.  London:  Europa,  1985. 


Chapter  2 

African  Statistical  Yearbook,  1986,  Pt.  3.  Addis  Ababa:  United  Nations 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  1986. 

"Angola."  Pages  219-39  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1988.  Lon- 
don: Europa,  1987. 

"Angola."  Pages  231-52  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1989.  Lon- 
don: Europa,  1988. 

"Angola:  'Criminal'  Religious  Sect,"  Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Ox- 
ford], 24,  No.  2,  March  15,  1987,  8399-8400A. 

"Angola:  Religious  Riot,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  28,  No. 
5,  March  4,  1987,  8. 

"Angolan  Refugees  Return  Home  from  Zaire,"  British  Broad- 
casting Corporation,  Summary  of  World  Broadcasts  [London] 
(ME/0286/B/1.)  October  19,  1988. 

Bender,  Gerald  J.  Angola  under  the  Portuguese:  The  Myth  and  the  Real- 
ity. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1978. 

Bender,  Gerald  J.,  and  P.  Stanley  Yoder.  "Whites  in  Angola  on 
the  Eve  of  Independence:  The  Politics  of  Numbers,"  Africa  To- 
day [London],  21,  No.  4,  1974,  23-38. 

Brooke,  James.  "Angolans  Strive  for  Military  Victory,"  New  York 
Times,  September  9,  1988,  Sect.  A,  9. 

 "Angola  of  2  Minds  on  Economic  Shift,"  New  York  Times, 

June  12,  1988,  Sect.  I,  15. 

 "The  Yearning  of  Refugees:  Angola  Unity,"  New  York 

Times,  October  6,  1988,  Sect.  A,  15. 

Carp,  Carol,  and  William  J.  Bicknell.  Review  of  Health  Care  in 


281 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Angola:  Issues,  Analyses,  and  Recommendations.  Washington:  Family 
Health  Care  and  Africare,  1978. 

Childs,  Gladwyn  Murray.  Umbundu  Kinship  and  Character.  London: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1949. 

Coxhill,  H.  Wakelin,  and  Kenneth  Grubb.  World  Christian  Hand- 
book, 1968.  Nashville:  Abingdon  Press,  1967. 

Dalby,  David.  Language  Map  of  Africa  and  the  Adjacent  Islands.  (Provi- 
sional ed.)  London:  International  African  Institute,  1977. 

Doyle,  Mark.  "Christians  and  Socialists."  Pages  202-3  in  Jo  Sul- 
livan and  Jane  Martin  (eds.),  Global  Studies:  Africa.  (2d  ed.)  Guil- 
ford, Connecticut:  Dushkin,  1987. 

Edwards,  Adrian  C.  The  Ovimbundu  under  Two  Sovereignties:  A  Study 
of  Social  Control  and  Social  Change  among  a  People  of  Angola.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1962. 

Estermann,  Carlos.  The  Ethnography  of  Southwestern  Angola.  (3  vols.) 
(Ed.,  Gibson  Gordon.)  New  York:  Africana,  1976. 

Ferreira,  Eduardo  de  Sousa.  Portuguese  Colonialism  in  Africa:  The  End 
of  an  Era.  Paris:  UNESCO,  1974. 

Garrett,  Laurie.  "Deadly  Virus  Spreads  Quietly  Across  Nations," 
Newsday,  December  26,  1988,  News  Section,  18. 

Hance,  William.  The  Geography  of  Modern  Africa.  (2d  ed.)  New  York: 
Columbia  University  Press,  1975. 

Harden,  Blaine.  "Angola  Reports  Hunger  Is  Widespread," 
Washington  Post,  August  14,  1987,  Sect.  A,  1. 

"Health,  Housing  Problems  Discussed"  (Trans,  from  Portuguese.), 
Jornal  de  Angola  [Luanda],  March  8,  1985,  2-3. 

Heimer,  Franz- Wilhelm.  "Education,  Economics,  and  Social 
Changes  in  Rural  Angola:  The  Case  of  the  Cuima  Region." 
Pages  112-43  in  Franz- Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social  Change  in 
Angola.  Munich:  Weltforum  Verlag,  1973. 

Henderson,  Lawrence  W.  "Ethnolinguistic  Worlds:  Seeing  the  Peo- 
ple of  Angola  in  Their  Language  Groupings."  Pages  50-60  in 
Robert  T.  Parsons  (ed.),  Windows  on  Africa:  A  Symposium.  Leiden: 
E.J.  Brill,  1971. 

 "Protestantism:  A  Tribal  Religion."  Pages  61-80  in 

Robert  T.  Parsons  (ed.),  Windows  on  Africa:  A  Symposium.  Leiden: 
E.J.  Brill,  1971. 

Heywood,  Linda  M.  "The  Dynamics  of  Ethnic  Nationalism  in 
Angola:  The  Case  of  UNITA,  1964-1987."  (Unpublished 
paper.)  Washington:  Howard  University,  1988. 

Hodges,  Tony.  Angola  to  the  1990s:  The  Potential  for  Recovery.  (Spe- 
cial Report  No.  1079.)  London:  Economist,  1987. 

Hoover,  James  Jeffrey.  "The  Seduction  of  Ruwej:  Reconstructing 
Ruund  History  (The  Nuclear  Lunda:  Zaire,  Angola,  Zambia)." 


282 


Bibliography 


(Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  Haven:  Yale  University,  1978. 

Hunter,  John  M.,  and  Morris  O.  Thomas.  "Hypothesis  of  Lepro- 
sy, Tuberculosis,  and  Urbanization  in  Africa,"  Social  Science  and 
Medicine,  19,  No.  1,  1984,  27-57. 

International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross.  "Special  Report: 
Angola,  1985-1986,"  I CRC  Bulletin,  January  1986. 

Joint  Publications  Research  Service — JPRS  (Washington).  The  fol- 
lowing items  are  from  the  JPRS  series: 
Translations  on  sub-Saharan  Africa. 

"The  Bishops  and  the  Conspiracy, "Jornal  de  Angola  [Luanda], 
January  26,  1978.  (JPRS  70682,  No.  1884,  February  24, 
1978). 

"BPV  Activities  Praised  by  National  Secretary, ' '  Jornal  de  Ango- 
la [Luanda],  June  16,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-074,  August  21, 
1987,  7-9). 

"Conditions  in  Jamba  Described,"  Tempo  [Lisbon],  November 
26,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-88-009,  February  19,  1988,  9-11). 

"Doctor  Shortages,"  Africa  Confidencial  [Lisbon],  April  22,  1987. 
(JPRS  SSA-87-058,  June  23,  1987,  16). 

"Essential  Objectives,  Tasks  of  Angolan  Reconstruction," 
(Document  issued  by  First  Congress  of  the  MPLA,  Decem- 
ber 4-10,  1977.)  [Luanda],  December  1977.  (JPRS  70891, 
No.  1905,  April  4,  1978). 

"Government  Seeks  to  Control  Religious  Sect;  Many  Killed," 
Africa  Confidencial  [Lisbon],  April  16,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA- 
87-065,  July  17,  1987,  14-15). 

"Health  College  Creation  Announced,"  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda], July  9,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-076,  August  31,  1987, 
52). 

' '  Huambo' s  Orthopedic  Center  Featured, ' '  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda], March  14,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-061,  July  1,  1987, 
24-25). 

"Information  on  Rectification  Movement,"  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda], January  27,  1978;  January  29,  1978;  February  1,  1978; 
and  February  2,  1978.  (JPRS  70711,  No.  1887,  March  1, 
1978). 

"Journalist  Describes  Sojourn  with  Unita,"  Expresso  [Lisbon], 
September  26,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-088,  November  20, 
1987,  7-8). 

"Journalist  Describes  UNITA  School  System,"  Tempo  [Lisbon], 
March  26,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-051,  June  2,  1987,  24-26). 

'  'Journalist  Describes  Visit  to  UNITA,  Interview  of  Savimbi, ' ' 
Figaro  [Paris],  January  22,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-037,  April 
21,  1987,  13-18). 


283 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

"Lara  Discusses  MPLA  Congress,  Scores  Petty  Bourgeois, "  Jor- 
nal  de  Angola  [Luanda],  November  17,  1977.  (JPRS  70357, 
No.  1853,  December  20,  1977). 

"Life  of  Angolan  Students  in  Cuba  Described, "Jornal  de  Ango- 
la [Luanda],  March  26,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-061,  July  1, 
1987,  6-13). 

"Nascimento  Criticizes  Bishops  at  Provincial  Commissioners 
Meeting,"  Jornalde Angola  [Luanda],  March  7,  1978.  (JPRS 
70863,  No.  1902,  March  30,  1978). 

"Racism,  Tribalism  Detrimental  to  Unity,"  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda], February  2,  1978.  (JPRS  70755,  No.  1892,  March  9, 
1978). 

"Students'  Summer  Labor,  Literacy  Programs  Re  viewed, "  Jor- 
nalde Angola  [Luanda],  September  27,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-88- 
003,  January  21,  1988,  17-18). 

"Thousands  Swell  BPV  Ranks  in  Namibe,"  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda],  January  31,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-037,  April  21,  1987, 
21-22). 

"  'Tocoist'  Sect  Criticized, "  Jornal  de  Angola  [Luanda],  Febru- 
ary 27,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-061,  July  1,  1987,  23). 

"UNITA:  The  Banned  Angola,"  Expresso  [Lisbon],  September 
26,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-088,  November  20,  1987,  7-8). 

'  'UNITA  Has  More  Students  in  Lisbon  Than  MPLA, ' '  O  Didrio 
[Lisbon],  May  3,  1988.  (JPRS  SSA-88-025,  June  3,  1988, 
7-8). 

McCulloch,  Merran.  The  Ovimbundu  of  Angola.  (Ethnographic  Sur- 
vey of  Africa.)  London:  International  African  Institute,  1952. 

Marcum,  John  A.  "Angola:  Background  to  the  Conflict,"  Mawazo 
[Kampala,  Uganda],  4,  No.  4,  1976,  3-25. 

 .  "Angola:  Twenty-five  Years  of  War,"  Current  History,  85, 

No.  511,  May  1986,  193-96,  229-31. 

Margarido,  Alfredo.  "The  Tokoist  Church  and  Portuguese 
Colonialism  in  Angola."  Pages  29-52  in  Ronald  H.  Chilcote 
(ed.),  Protest  and  Resistance  in  Angola  and  Brazil:  Comparative  Studies. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 

Martin,  Phyllis  M.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Angola.  (African  Histori- 
cal Dictionaries,  No.  26.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow 
Press,  1980. 

Miller,  Joseph  C.  Angola.  Washington:  Agency  for  International 
Development,  February  1977. 

 .  "Imbangala  Lineage  Slavery  (Angola)."  Pages  205-33  in 

Suzanne  Miers  and  Igor  Kopytoff  (eds.),  Slavery  in  Africa.  Madi- 
son: University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1977. 


284 


Bibliography 


 .  Kings  and  Kinsmen:  Early  Mbundu  States  in  Angola.  Oxford: 

Clarendon  Press,  1976. 
Monteiro,  Ramiro  Ladeiro.  "From  Extended  to  Residual  Family: 

Aspects  of  Social  Change  in  the  Musseques  of  Luanda."  Pages 

21 1-33  in  Franz-Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social  Change  in  Angola. 

Munich:  Weltforum  Verlag,  1973. 
Murdock,  George  Peter.  Africa:  Its  Peoples  and  Their  Culture  History. 

New  York:  McGraw-Hill,  1959. 
Niddrie,  David  L.  "Changing  Settlement  Patterns  in  Angola," 

Rural  Africana,  No.  23,  1975,  47-78. 
Ottaway,  David,  and  Marina  Ottaway.  Afrocommunism.  New  York: 

Africana,  1981. 

Possinger,  Hermann.  "Interrelations  Between  Economic  and  Social 
Change  in  Rural  Africa:  The  Case  of  the  Ovimbundu  of  Ango- 
la." Pages  32-52  in  Franz-Wilhelm  Heimer  (ed.),  Social  Change 
in  Angola.  Munich:  Weltforum  Verlag,  1973. 

Redinha,  Jose.  "Carta  Etnica  da  Provmcia  de  Angola."  (Map.) 
Luanda:  Edicao  Olisipo-Editorial  de  Publicacoes,  1973. 

"Refugees  and  Displaced  Persons  in  Southern  Africa,  1986,"  Review 
of  African  Political  Economy  [London],  40,  December  1987,  67. 

Robertson,  Claire,  and  Iris  Berger.  "Introduction:  Analyzing  Class 
and  Gender — African  Perspectives."  Pages  3-24  in  Claire 
Robertson  and  Iris  Berger  (eds.),  Women  and  Class  in  Africa.  New 
York:  Africana,  1986. 

Simmonds,  Stephanie  P.  "Refugee  Community  Health  Care  in 
the  Tropics:  Refugees,  Health,  and  Development,"  Transactions 
of  the  Royal  Society  of  Tropical  Medicine  and  Hygiene  [London],  78, 
1984,  726-33.  ' 

Somerville,  Keith.  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist 
Regimes  Series.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees.  Uprooted  Angolans:  From  Crisis  to  Catas- 
trophe. Washington:  American  Council  for  Nationalities  Ser- 
vice, August  1987. 

United  Nations  Children's  Fund.  "Country  Programme  Profile: 
Angola."  (Unpublished  document.)  UNICEF  Programme  Com- 
mittee, April  12,  1983. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  "Living  Conditions  in 
the  People's  Republic  of  Angola."  Luanda:  Office  of  the  UNDP 
Resident  Representative  in  the  People's  Republic  of  Angola, 
February  1984. 

United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  Bureau  for 
Africa.  Office  of  Southern  Africa  Affairs.  "Development  Needs 
and  Opportunities  for  Cooperation  in  Southern  Africa,  Annex 
A:  Angola."  Washington:  1979. 


285 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1988. 

Washington,  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Office 
of  Public  Communication.  Background  Notes:  Angola.  (Department 
of  State  Publication  No.  7975.)  Washington:  GPO,  June  1987. 

United  States  Private  Voluntary  Agency.  United  States  Govern- 
ment Assessment  Team  to  Angola.  "Final  Report."  October 
25,  1988. 

Warren,  Kenneth  S.,  and  Adel  A.  Mahmoud.  Tropical  and  Ge- 
ographical Medicine.  New  York:  McGraw-Hill,  1984. 

Westphal,  E.O  J.  "The  Click  Languages  of  Southern  and  Eastern 
Africa."  Pages  367-420  in  Thomas  A.  Sebeok  (ed.),  Current 
Trends  in  Linguistics,  1:  Linguistics  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  Hague: 
Mouton,  1971. 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.  "Origins  of  African  Nationalism  in  Angola: 
Assimilado  Protest  Writings,  1859-1929."  Pages  67-87  in 
Ronald  H.  Chilcote  (ed.),  Protest  and  Resistance  in  Angola  and  Brazil: 
Comparative  Studies.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.,  and  Rene  Pelissier.  Angola.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1971. 

World  Health  Organization.  World  Health  Statistics  Quarterly,  37,  No. 
4,  1984. 

Yu,  Alan  K.  "The  Angola  Food  Emergency:  The  Extent  of  the 
Problem  and  Current  U.S.  Emergency  Assistance  Policy." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  Report 
for  Congress,  88-653F.)  Washington:  October  12,  1988. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publication  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Angop  News  Bulletin  [London]). 


Chapter  3 

Bender,  Gerald  J.  Angola  under  the  Portuguese:  The  Myth  and  the  Real- 
ity. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1978. 

"Country's  Oil  Industry  Discussed,"  African  Business  [London], 
April  1986,  22-23. 

Direction  of  Trade  Statistics  Yearbook,  1986.  Washington:  International 
Monetary  Fund.  1987. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  [London],  No.  1,  1987,  13,  16. 

 .  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London],  No. 

2,  1987,  12. 


286 


Bibliography 


 Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  [London],  No. 

4,  1987,  2,  17. 

"History  of  Country's  Oil  Development,"  SADCC  Energy  [Luan- 
da], June-August  1984,  11-14. 

Hodges,  Tony.  Angola  to  the  1990s:  The  Potential  for  Recovery.  (Spe- 
cial Report  No.  1079.)  London:  Economist,  1987. 

International  Telecommunication  Union.  26th  Report  by  the  Inter- 
national Telecommunication  Union  on  Telecommunication  and  the  Peaceful 
Uses  of  Outer  Space.  Geneva:  1987. 

International  Wheat  Council.  World  Wheat  Statistics.  1986. 

Joint  Publications  Research  Service — JPRS  (Washington).  The  fol- 
lowing items  are  from  the  JPRS  series: 
Translations  on  sub-Saharan  Africa. 

"Angola-Portugal:  Beginning  of  Rapprochement?"  Africa  Hoje 
[Lisbon],  August  15,  1986.  (JPRS  SSA-86-105,  October  16, 

1986,  8-10). 

"Benguela  Continues  Efforts  to  Eliminate  Black  Market, "  Jor- 
nalde  Angola  [Luanda],  June  25,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-078, 
September  8,  1987,  33-34). 

"FRG  Set  to  Offer  Government  Developmental,  Economic 
Aid,"  Frankfurter  Rundschau  [Frankfurt],  May  27,  1987.  (JPRS 
SSA-87-084,  October  2,  1987,  3-4). 

"KUP  Comments  on  Chevron  Partial  Withdrawal"  (Broadcast.), 
February  28,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-025,  March  20,  1987,  22). 

"Measures  Adopted  to  Improve  Trade, "  Jornal  de  Angola  [Lu- 
anda], October  17,  1986.  (JPRS  SSA-87-013,  February  19, 

1987,  42-43). 

"Paper  Provides  Survey  on  Nation's  Economy,"  Africa  Hoje  [Lis- 
bon], March  1986.  (JPRS  SSA-86-062,  June  13,  1986,  8-15). 

"Petrangol,  Sonangol  to  Sign  Strategic  Oil  Reserve  Agreement," 
Semanario  [Lisbon],  February  21,  1987.  (JPRS  SSA-87-041, 
April  29,  1987,  2-4). 
Lloyds  of  London.  Lloyds  Ports  of  the  World.  London:  1987. 
Newitt,  Malyn.  Portugal  in  Africa:  The  Last  Hundred  Years.  London: 

C.  Hurst,  1981. 
"Reportage  on  Sonangol' s  Evolution,"  Afrique-Asie  [Paris],  March 

9-22,  1987,  36-44. 
Sugar  Yearbook.  London:  International  Sugar  Organization,  1986. 
"10  Years  of  Oil  Industry  Development  Viewed, ' '  SADCC  Energy 

[Luanda],  3,  No.  10,  1985,  11-16,  29. 
United  Nations.  Economic  Commission  for  Europe.  Statistics  of 

World  Trade  in  Steel.  Geneva:  1986. 
 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Monthly  Bulletin  of 

Statistics  [Rome],  November  1987,  Tables  16  and  20. 


287 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelli- 
gence. International  Energy  Statistical  Review.  (DI  IESR  84-011.) 
Washington:  November  27,  1984. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelligence. 

International  Energy  Statistical  Review.  (DI  IESR  88-009.)  Wash- 
ington: September  27,  1988. 

United  States  Private  Voluntary  Agency.  United  States  Govern- 
ment Assessment  Team  to  Angola.  4 'Final  Report."  October 
25,  1988. 

World  Bank.  World  Development  Report,  1987.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1987. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Economic  Digest  [London]; 
Africa  Hoje  [Lisbon];  Africa  Jornal  [Lisbon];  Africa  Research  Bulletin 
(Economic  Series)  [Oxford] ;  AfricAsia  [Paris] ;  Afrique-Asie  [Paris] ; 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Angola,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily 
Report:  Middle  East  and  Africa  (until  April  1987)  and  Daily  Report: 
Africa  sub-Saharan  (since  April  1987);  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris];  Marches 
tropicaux  et  mediterraneens  [Paris];  and  West  Africa  [London].) 


Chapter  4 

4 'Angola."  Pages  219-39  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1988.  Lon- 
don: Europa,  1987. 

"Angola."  Pages  B619-37  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contem- 
porary Record:  Annual  Survey  and  Documents,  1986-1987.  New  York: 
Africana,  1988. 

"Angola:  The  Party  and  the  President,"  Africa  Confidential  [Lon- 
don], 27,  No.  4,  February  12,  1986,  3-5. 

"Angola:  Tenth  Anniversary  but  Little  to  Celebrate."  Pages 
B6 17-34  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary  Record:  Annual 
Survey  and  Documents,  1985-1986.  New  York:  Africana,  1987. 

Banks,  Arthur  S.  (ed.).  Political  Handbook  of  the  World,  1984-1985. 
Binghamton:  State  University  of  New  York,  1985. 

"The  Batde  for  Angola:  Fidel  Castro  Speaks,"  Sechaba  [Lusaka, 
Zambia],  22,  No.  11,  1988,  2-5. 

Baumgartner,  Jacques.  "UNITA:  The  Imponderable  in  Angola," 
Swiss  Review  of  World  Affairs  [Zurich],  38,  No.  7,  October  1988, 
25-26. 

Bender,  Gerald  J.  "American  Policy  Toward  Angola:  A  History  of 
Linkage."  Pages  110-28  in  Gerald  J.  Bender,  James  S.  Coleman, 


288 


Bibliography 


and  Richard  L.  Sklar  (eds.),  African  Crisis  Areas  and  U.S.  Foreign 
Policy.  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1985. 

 Angola  under  the  Portuguese:  The  Myth  and  the  Reality.  Berke- 
ley: University  of  California  Press,  1978. 

 .  "The  Continuing  Crisis  in  Angola,"  Current  History,  82, 

No.  482,  March  1983,  124-25,  128,  138. 

Bhagavan,  M.R.  Angola's  Political  Economy,  1975-1985.  (Research 
Report  No.  75.)  Uppsala,  Sweden:  Scandinavian  Institute  of 
African  Studies,  1986. 

Birmingham,  David.  "Carnival  at  Luanda, "  Journal  of  African  His- 
tory [London],  29,  1988,  93-103. 

Bridgland,  Fred.  "The  Future  of  Angola,"  South  Africa  Internation- 
al [Johannesburg],  19,  No.  1,  July  1988,  28-37. 

 Jonas  Savimbi:  A  Key  to  Africa,  New  York:  Paragon  House, 

1987. 

Clarence-Smith,  W.G.  "Capital  Accumulation  and  Class  Forma- 
tion in  Angola. "  Pages  163-99  in  David  Birmingham  and  Phyllis 
M.  Martin  (eds.),  History  of  Central  Africa,  2.  New  York:  Long- 
man, 1983. 

 "Class  Structure  and  Class  Struggles  in  Angola  in  the 

1970s,"  Journal  of  Southern  African  Studies,  7,  No.  1,  1980,  109-26. 

Clough,  Michael.  "Southern  Africa:  Challenges  and  Choices," 
Foreign  Affairs,  66,  No.  4,  Summer  1988,  1067-90. 

Coker,  Christopher.  "Pact,  Pox,  or  Proxy:  Eastern  Europe's  Secu- 
rity Relationship  with  Southern  Africa,"  Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow], 
40,  No.  4,  October  1988,  573-84. 

Copson,  Raymond  W.  "Angola- Namibia  Peace  Prospects:  Back- 
ground, Current  Problems,  and  Chronology."  (Library  of  Con- 
gress, Congressional  Research  Service.)  Washington:  August  16, 
1988. 

Falk,  Pamela  S.  "Cuba  in  Africa,"  Foreign  Affairs,  65,  No.  5,  Sum- 
mer 1987,  1077-96. 

Fukuyama,  Francis.  "Patterns  of  Soviet  Third  World  Policy," 
Problems  of  Communism,  36,  No.  5,  September-October  1987, 
1-13. 

Gavshon,  Arthur.  Crisis  in  Africa:  Battleground  of  East  and  West.  New 
York:  Penguin  Books,  1981. 

Graham,  D.G.  "The  Prospects  for  Increased  Economic  Interac- 
tion in  Southern  Africa,"  ISSUP Bulletin  (Institute  for  Strategic 
Studies,  University  of  Pretoria)  [Pretoria],  March  1988,  1-12. 

Grundy,  Kenneth  W.  "The  Angolan  Puzzle:  Varied  Actors  and 
Complex  Issues,"  Issue:  A  Journal  of  Opinion,  15,  1987,  35-41. 

Harding,  Jeremy.  "Timetable  Troubles,"  Africa  Report,  33,  No. 
6,  November-December  1988,  36-38. 


289 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Hodges,  Tony.  Angola  to  the  1990s:  The  Potential forRecovery.  (Spe- 
cial Report  No.  1079.)  London:  Economist,  1987. 

Jackson,  Denise.  "People's  Republic  of  Angola."  Pages  19-23  in 
George  E.  Delury  (ed.),  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems  and 
Parties,  1.  (2d  ed.)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Kerpen,  Karen  Shaw.  "Angola."  In  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gis- 
bert  H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  Countries  of  the  World.  Dobbs 
Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1981. 

Kramer,  Mark  N.  "Soviet  Arms  Transfers  to  the  Third  World," 
Problems  of  Communism,  September-October  1987,  36,  No.  5, 
52-68. 

Liebenow,  J.  Gus.  Southern  Africa:  "Not  Yet  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 
(Universities  Field  Staff  International.  UFSI  Reports.  Africa- 
Middle  East,  No.  3.)  Indianapolis:  1988-89,  1-15. 

McDonald,  Steve.  "Savimbi  Misrepresents  UNITA  History," 
Washington  Report  on  Africa,  6,  No.  13,  August  1,  1988,  47,  49. 

Marcum,  John  A.  "Angola:  Twenty-five  Years  of  War,"  Current 
History,  85,  No.  511,  May  1986,  193-96,  229-31. 

 The  Angolan  Revolution,  1:  The  Anatomy  of  an  Explosion 

(1950-1962).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1969. 

 The  Angolan  Revolution,  2:  Exile  Politics  and  Guerrilla  Warfare 

(1962-1976).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1978. 

 "Bipolar  Dependency:  The  People's  Republic  of  Angola." 

Pages  12-30  in  Michael  Clough  (ed.),  Reassessing  the  Soviet  Challenge 
in  Africa.  Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University 
of  California,  1986. 

 "The  People's  Republic  of  Angola:  A  Radical  Vision  Frus- 
trated." Pages  67-83  in  Edmond  J.  Keller  and  Donald  Roth- 
child  (eds.),  Afro-Marxist  Regimes.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1987. 

 .  "Radical  Vision  Frustrated:  Angola  and  Cuba."  (Paper 

presented  to  Seminar  on  Cuban  Internationalism  in  Sub-Saharan 
Africa  sponsored  by  Radio  Marti  Program,  United  States  In- 
formation Agency,  January  23,  1987.)  Washington:  January  1987. 

Martin,  James  W.,  III.  "Cuban  Involvement  in  the  Angolan  Civil 
War:  Implications  for  Lasting  Peace  in  Southern  Africa,"  ISSUP 
Bulletin  (Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  University  of  Pretoria) 
[Pretoria],  October  1988,  1-15. 

Martin,  Phyllis  M.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Angola.  (African  Histori- 
cal Dictionaries,  No.  26.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow 
Press,  1980. 

Morrison,  J.  Stephen.  "Mr.  Savimbi  Goes  to  Washington,"  Afn '- 

ca  Report,  33,  No.  5,  September-October  1988,  55-58. 
Ogunbadejo,  Oye.  "Angola:  Ideology  and  Pragmatism  in  Foreign 


290 


Bibliography 


Policy,"  International  Affairs  [London],  57,  Spring  1981,  254-69. 
Organizagao  da  Mulher  Angolana  (Organization  of  Angolan  Women). 

London:  Blackmore  Press,  1985. 
Ottaway,  David,  and  Marina  Ottaway.  Afrocommunism.  New  York: 

Africana,  1981. 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola- Workers'  Party 
(Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabal- 
ho).  Angola:  Trabalho  e  luta.  Paris:  Realisation  (Edicoes  DIP),  1985. 

Scott,  Catherine  V.  "Political  Development  in  Afro-Marxist 
Regimes:  An  Analysis  of  Angola  and  Mozambique."  (Ph.D. 
dissertation.)  Atlanta:  Department  of  Political  Science,  Emory 
University,  1986. 

 "Socialism  and  the  'Soft  State'  in  Africa:  An  Analysis  of 

Angola  and  Mozambique,  "Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Lon- 
don], 26,  No.  1,  March  1988,  23-36. 

Sidler,  Peter.  "South  Africa  and  the  Namibia  Question,"  Swiss 
Review  of  World  Affairs  [Zurich],  38,  No.  4.  July  1988,  21-22. 

Smith,  Wayne  S.  "A  Trap  in  Angola,"  Foreign  Policy,  No.  62, 
Spring  1986,  61-74. 

Somerville,  Keith.  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist 
Regimes  Series.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

 .  "Angola:  Soviet  Client  State  or  State  of  Socialist  Orien- 
tation?" Millennium:  Journal  of  International  Studies  [London],  13, 
No.  3,  1984,  292-310. 

Soremekun,  Fola.  "Angola."  Pages  25-59  in  Timothy  M.  Shaw 
and  Olajide  Aluko  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  African  Foreign 
Policy.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 

The  Statesman's  Year-Book,  1984-1985.  London:  Macmillan  Press, 
1984. 

Stiihrenberg,  Michael.  "Pulling  Cuban  Soldiers  Out  of  Angola," 
World  Press  Review,  35,  No.  12,  December  1988,  30-32. 

U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees.  Uprooted  Angolans:  From  Crisis  to  Catas- 
trophe. Washington:  American  Council  for  Nationalities  Ser- 
vice, August  1987. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Agree- 
ments for  Peace  in  Southwestern  Africa.  (Selected  Documents,  No. 
32.)  Washington:  December  1988. 

Wildschut,  Adele.  "The  Soviet  Union's  Economic  Relations  with 
Southern  Africa,"  Africa  Insight  [Pretoria],  18,  No.  2,  1988,  80-91. 

Wolfers,  Michael,  and  J.  Bergerol.  Angola  in  the  Frontline.  London: 
Zed  Press,  1983. 

Young,  Thomas.  "The  Politics  of  Development  in  Angola  and 
Mozambique,"  African  Affairs  [London],  87,  No.  347,  April  1988, 
165-84. 


291 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa 
Contemporary  Record;  Africa  Report;  Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Political 
Series)  [Oxford];  Angop  News  Bulletin  [London],  1987-88;  Boston 
Globe,  1987-88;  Financial  Mail  [Johannesburg],  1988;  Foreign 
Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Middle  East  and  Africa 
(until  April  1987)  and  Daily  Report:  Africa  sub-Saharan  (since  April 
1987);  Guardian  [London] \  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris],  1988;  Joint  Publi- 
cations Research  Service,  Report  on  sub-Saharan  Africa;  Marches 
tropicaux  et  mediterraneens  [Paris],  1988;  New  York  Times,  1988;  and 
Wall  Street  Journal,  1988). 


Chapter  5 

Air  Forces  of  the  World,  1986.  Geneva:  Interavia,  1986. 

Alberts,  Donald  J.  "Armed  Struggle  in  Angola."  Pages  235-67 
in  Bard  E.  O'Neill  et  al.,  Insurgency  in  the  Modern  World.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Amnesty  International  Report,  1987.  London:  Amnesty  Internation- 
al, 1987. 

Andrade,  John  M.  '  'Angola:  Republica  Popular  de  Angola. ' '  Page 
5  in  John  M.  Andrade  (ed.),  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces. 
New  York:  Stockton  Press,  1985. 

"Angola."  Pages  105-6  in  Torture  in  the  Eighties.  London:  Amnesty 
International,  1984. 

Bender,  Gerald  J.  Angola  under  the  Portuguese:  The  Myth  and  the  Real- 
ity. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1978. 

 "The  Continuing  Crisis  in  Angola,"  Current  History,  82, 

No.  482,  March  1983,  124-25,  128,  138. 

Bernstein,  Jonas.  "A  Freedom  Fight  Deep  in  Africa,"  Insight,  De- 
cember 19,  1988,  11. 

Birmingham,  David.  "The  Twenty- seventh  of  May:  An  Histori- 
cal Note  on  the  Abortive  1977  Coup  in  Angola,"  African  Affairs 
[London],  77,  No.  309,  October  1978,  554-64. 

Bridgland,  Fred.  Jonas  Savimbi:  A  Key  to  Africa.  New  York:  Para- 
gon House,  1987. 

Chilcote,  Ronald  H.  (ed.).  Protest  and  Resistance  in  Angola  and  Brazil: 
Comparative  Studies.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 

Couhat,  Jean  Labayle,  and  Bernard  Prezelin.  Combat  Fleets  of  the 
World,  1988-1989.  Annapolis:  Naval  Institute  Press,  1988. 

Day,  Alan  J.,  and  Henry  W.  Degenhardt  (eds.).  Political  Parties 
of  the  World.  (2d  ed.)  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1984. 

Degenhardt,  Henry  W.  Political  Dissent.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 


292 


Bibliography 


Ebinger,  Charles  K.  Foreign  Intervention  in  Civil  War:  The  Politics  and 
Diplomacy  of  the  Angolan  Conflict.  (Ph.D  dissertation.)  Medford, 
Massachusetts:  Fletcher  School  of  Law  and  Diplomacy,  Tufts 
University,  1981. 

El-Khawas,  Mohamed  A.  "U.S.  Intervention  in  Angola,"  Africa 
and  the  World,  1,  No.  2,  January  1988,  1-12. 

Falk,  Pamela  S.  "Cuba  in  Africa,"  Foreign  Affairs,  65,  No.  5,  Sum- 
mer 1987,  1077-96. 

Gastil,  Raymond  D.  Freedom  in  the  World:  Political  Rights  and  Civil 
Liberties,  1986-1987.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press, 
1987. 

Grundy,  Kenneth  W.  "The  Angolan  Puzzle:  Varied  Actors  and 
Complex  Issues,"  Issue:  A  Journal  of  Opinion,  15,  1987,  35-41. 

Hamalengwa,  M.,  et  al.  (comp.).  The  International  Law  of  Human 
Rights  in  Africa.  Dordrecht,  The  Netherlands:  Nijhoff,  1988. 

Harsch,  Ernest,  and  Tony  Thomas.  Angola:  The  Hidden  History  of 
Washington's  War.  New  York:  Pathfinder  Press,  1976. 

Henderson,  Lawrence  W.  Angola:  Five  Centuries  of  Conflict.  Ithaca: 
Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Hobday,  Charles.  Communist  and  Marxist  Parties  of  the  World.  Santa 
Barbara:  ABC -Clio,  1986. 

Hodges,  Tony.  Angola  to  the  1990s:  The  Potential  for  Recovery.  (Spe- 
cial Report  No.  1079.)  London:  Economist,  1987. 

Holness,  Marga.  "Angola:  The  Struggle  Continues."  Pages  73-109 
in  Phyllis  Martin  and  David  Martin  (eds.),  Destructive  Engage- 
ment: Southern  Africa  at  War.  Harare:  Zimbabwe  Publishing  House, 
1986. 

Hough,  M.  "The  Angolan  Civil  War  with  Special  Reference  to 
the  UNITA  Movement,"  ISSUP  Strategic  Review  (Institute  for 
Strategic  Studies,  University  of  Pretoria)  [Pretoria],  November 
1985,  1-11. 

Humana,  Charles  (ed.).  The  Economist  World  Human  Rights  Guide. 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Jackson,  Denise.  "People's  Republic  of  Angola."  Pages  19-23  in 
George  E.  Delury  (ed.),  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems  and 
Parties,  1.  (2d  ed.)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Janke,  Peter.  Guerrilla  and  Terrorist  Organizations:  A  World  Directory 
and  Bibliography.  New  York:  Macmillan,  1983. 

Kitchen,  Helen  (ed.).  Angola,  Mozambique,  and  the  West.  (Washing- 
ton Papers  Series,  130.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1987. 

Klinghoffer,  Arthur  Jay.  The  Angolan  War:  A  Study  in  Soviet  Policy 
in  the  Third  World.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Marcum,  John  A.  The  Angolan  Revolution,  1:  The  Anatomy  of  an  Ex- 
plosion (1950-1962).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1969. 


293 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


.  The  Angolan  Revolution,  2:  Exile  Politics  and  Guerrilla  Warfare 
(1962-1976).  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1978. 

The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 

"Minister  of  Defense  Explains  Creation  of  Military  Fronts,"  Angop 
News  Bulletin  [London],  No.  101,  June  30,  1988,  8-9. 

Radu,  Michael.  "The  African  National  Congress:  Cadres  and  Cre- 
do," Problems  of  Communism,  36,  No.  4,  July- August  1987,  58-74. 

Seiler,  John  (ed.).  Southern  Africa  since  the  Portuguese  Coup.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Shelly,  Louise  I.  Crime  and  Modernization.  Carbondale:  Southern 
Illinois  University  Press,  1981. 

SIPRI  Yearbook,  1988:  World  Armaments  and  Disarmament.  (Stockholm 
International  Peace  Research  Institute.)  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1988. 

Somerville,  Keith.  Angola:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist 
Regimes  Series.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Taylor,  Michael  J.  H.  Encyclopedia  of  the  World's  Air  Forces.  New  York: 
Facts  on  File,  1988.  ' 

U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees.  Uprooted  Angolans:  From  Crisis  to  Catas- 
trophe. Washington:  American  Council  for  Nationalities  Ser- 
vice, August  1987. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1987.  Washington:  1988. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1988. 

Washington,  1988. 

 Congress.  94th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  Subcommittee  on  African  Affairs.  Angola. 
Washington:  GPO,  1976. 

 Congress.  95th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Angola:  Intervention  or  Negotiation. 
Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

 Congress.  95th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  International  Relations.  Subcommittee  on  Afri- 
ca. United  States-Angolan  Relations.  Washington:  GPO,  1978. 

 Congress.  96th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Africa.  Unit- 
ed States  Policy  Toward  Angola — Update.  Washington:  GPO,  1980. 

-  Congress.  99th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  Angola:  Options  for  American  Foreign  Policy.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1986. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1987.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  100th, 
2d  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 


294 


Bibliography 


of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1988. 
Wheeler,  Douglas  L.,  and  Rene  Pelissier.  Angola.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1971. 

Wolfers,  Michael.  ''People's  Republic  of  Angola."  Pages  62-86 
in  Bogdan  Szajkowski  (ed.),  Marxist  Governments:  A  World  Sur- 
vey, 1.  London:  Macmillian,  1981. 

Wolfers,  Michael,  and  J.  Bergerol.  Angola  in  the  Frontline.  London: 
Zed  Press,  1983. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa 
Contemporary  Record;  Africa  Diary  [New  Delhi];  Africa  Economic  Digest 
[London];  African  Defence  Journal  [Paris];  Africa  Now  [London];  Africa 
Report;  Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Political  Series)  [Oxford];  AfricAsia 
[Paris];  Afrique Defense  [Paris];  Air  International  [London] ;  Atlanta  Con- 
stitution; British  Broadcasting  Corporation,  Summary  of  World  Broad- 
casts [London];  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs 
Handbook;  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Weekly;  Facts  and  Reports  [Am- 
sterdam]; Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Mid- 
dle East  and  Africa  (until  April  1987)  and  Daily  Report:  Africa 
sub-Saharan  (since  April  1987);  Flight  International  [London];  Inter- 
national Defense  Review  [Geneva] \  Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft  [Lon- 
don]; Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery  [London];  Jane's  Defence  Weekly 
[London];  Jane's  Fighting  Ships  [London];  Jane's  Weapons  Systems 
[London];  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris];  Joint  Publications  Research  Ser- 
vice, Report  on  sub-Saharan  Africa;  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens 
[Paris] ;  Soldier  of  Fortune;  Washington  Post;  Washington  Times;  and 
West  Africa  [London].) 


295 


Glossary 


assimilado(s) — Those  Africans  and  mestigos  (q.v.)  considered  by 
the  colonial  authorities  to  have  met  certain  formal  standards 
indicating  that  they  had  successfully  absorbed  (assimilated)  the 
Portuguese  language  and  culture.  Individuals  legally  assigned 
to  the  status  of  assimilado  assumed  (in  principle)  the  privileges 
and  obligations  of  Portuguese  citizens  and  escaped  the  burdens, 
e.g.,  that  of  forced  labor,  imposed  on  most  Africans  (indigenas — 
q.v.).  The  status  of  assimilado  and  its  legal  implications  were 
formally  abolished  in  1961. 

barrels  per  day  (bpd) — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum 
products  is  frequently  measured  in  barrels  per  day.  A  barrel 
is  a  volume  measure  of  forty-two  United  States  gallons.  Con- 
version of  barrels  to  metric  tons  depends  on  the  density  of  the 
special  product.  About  7.3  barrels  of  average  crude  oil  weigh 
one  metric  ton.  Heavy  products  would  be  about  seven  barrels 
per  metric  ton.  Light  products,  such  as  gasoline  and  kerosene, 
would  average  eight  barrels  per  metric  ton. 

degredado(s) — Exiled  convicts;  refers  to  convicted  criminals  sent 
from  Portugal  to  Angola.  Degredados  constituted  a  very  substan- 
tial part  of  the  Portuguese  who  came  to  Angola  from  the  six- 
teenth century  to  the  early  twentieth  century. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — January  1  to  December  31. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed 
to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated 
and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the 
result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates  that  deduc- 
tions for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made. 
See  also  gross  national  product. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Gross  domestic  product  (GDP — 
q.  v.)  plus  the  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions 
with  foreign  countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measurement  of 
the  output  of  goods  and  services  by  an  economy.  It  can  be  cal- 
culated at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and  sub- 
sidies. Because  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer 
payments,  GNP  is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost,  removing  in- 
direct taxes  and  subsidies. 


297 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

indigences) — An  African  or  mestigo  (q.  v.)  without  assimilado  (q.  v.)  sta- 
tus. In  Portuguese  terms,  it  means  unassimilated  or  uncivi- 
lized. Before  the  abolition  of  the  status  (and  the  distinction 
between  it  and  that  of  assimilado)  in  1961,  roughly  99  percent 
of  all  Africans  were  indigenas. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  bus- 
iness of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members 
(including  industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they 
experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  fre- 
quently carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  eco- 
nomic adjustments  by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are 
developing  countries. 

kwanza — Angolan  currency  unit  that  replaced  the  Angolan  escudo 
after  January  8,  1977.  The  kwanza,  named  for  the  Cuanza 
(Kwanza)  River,  consists  of  100  lwei  (lw),  named  for  one  of 
the  river's  tributaries.  The  kwanza  was  a  nonconvertible  cur- 
rency, but  exchange  rates  for  authorized  transactions  were 
established  regularly.  In  late  1988,  US$1  officially  equaled 
Kz29.3;  reportedly,  the  kwanza  traded  on  the  parallel  market 
for  up  to  Kz2,100  per  US$1. 

Lome  Convention — An  agreement  between  the  European  Com- 
munity (EC)  and  the  African,  Caribbean,  and  Pacific  (ACP) 
states  whose  provisions  call  for  the  EC  to  extend  economic 
assistance  to  ACP  countries.  Much  of  the  aid  is  for  project 
development  or  rehabilitation,  but  a  large  portion  is  set  aside 
for  the  Stabilization  of  Export  Earnings  (STABEX)  system, 
designed  to  help  developing  countries  withstand  fluctuations 
in  the  prices  of  their  agricultural  exports. 

mestigo(s) — An  individual  of  mixed  white  and  African  ancestry. 
Several  varieties,  depending  on  the  nature  and  degree  of  mix- 
ture, were  recognized  by  the  Portuguese  and  mestigos  in  the 
colonial  era.  Before  1961  most  mestigos  had  the  status  of  assimilado 

(qv). 

Paris  Club — A  noninstitutional  framework  whereby  developed 
nations  that  make  loans  or  guarantee  official  or  private  export 
credits  to  lesser  developed  states  meet  to  discuss  borrowers'  abil- 
ity to  repay  debts.  The  organization,  which  met  for  the  first 
time  in  1956,  has  no  formal  or  institutional  existence  and  no 
fixed  membership.  Its  secretariat  is  run  by  the  French  treasury, 
and  it  has  a  close  relationship  with  the  World  Bank  (q.  v.),  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.v.),  and  the  United 


298 


Glossary 


Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development. 
World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  specifically  designed  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the 
IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three  institu- 
tions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  nations  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF— q.  v.). 


299 


Index 


Abako.      Alliance  of  Bakongo  (Abako) 

accords,  regional  (1988)  (see  also  agree- 
ments; Joint  Military  Monitoring 
Commission):  Angola's  probable  gains 
from,  5,  195;  for  Cuban  troop  removal, 
194-95;  effect  of,  xxv-xxvi,  xxvii,  222 

AC  DA.  See  Arms  Control  and  Disarma- 
ment Agency  (AC  DA) 

Action  Committee  for  the  National  Un- 
ion of  Cabindans  (Comite  d'Action 
d'Union  Nationale  des  Cabindais: 
CAUNC),  33 

Active  Revolt  (1974),  41,  46,  170,  236 

administration,  government:  executive 
branch  in,  165,  167-68;  judicial  system 
of,  169;  legislative  branch  of,  168-69; 
at  local  level,  169-70 

Afonso  (Kongo  king),  7 

African  League,  26 

African  National  Congress  (ANC),  61, 
106;  base  and  activity  in  Angola  of, 
191-92,  246;  fighting  against  UNITA 
by,  222;  MPLA-PT  support  for,  244 

African  Petroleum  Producers'  Associa- 
tion, 130 

Africans  as  traders,  19 

Africans  in  Angolan  society,  22-24 

Africa  Textil,  144 

Agip  Oil  Company,  131 

Agostinho  Neto  Organization  of  Pioneers 
(Organizacao  dos  Pioneiros  Agostinho 
Neto:  OPA),  181 

Agostinho  Neto  University,  102,  198 

agreements,  38,  162;  of  Angola,  Cuba, 
and  South  Africa  (1988),  205-6;  with 
Comecon,  198;  Lome  III  Agreement, 
121-22;  of  military  cooperation  with 
Hungary,  227;  nonaggression  pact: 
Zaire,  Zambia,  Angola,  207-8;  be- 
tween Portugal  and  Belgium,  19;  relat- 
ed to  fishing  rights,  140;  with  Soviet 
Union,  197 

agricultural  sector  (see  also  associations, 
farm;  cooperatives,  farm;  farmers  as  in- 
terest group;  imports):  components  of, 
88-90;  economic  crisis  of,  121,  138; 
effect  of  resettlement  on,  35;  effect  of 
UNITA  insurgency  on,  50,  56,  63,  92, 


184;  free  trade  policy  for,  118;  migra- 
tion from,  xxiii;  plantations  in,  88,  115; 
population  in,  90-91;  Portuguese  farms 
of,  114;  production  of,  135-37;  ratio  of 
labor  force  in,  123;  socialism  for,  45 

AIDS  Policy  Research  Center,  United 
States,  106 

air  force.  See  People's  Air  and  Air  Defense 
Force  of  Angola  (Forca  Aerea  Popular 
de  Angola/Defesa  Aerea  y  Antiaerea: 
FAPA/DAA) 

air  transport  industry,  113,  151 

Alfredo,  Manuel  Augusto,  221 

Algeria,  29-30,  130 

Alliama.  See  Alliance  of  Mayombe 
(Alliama) 

Alliance  of  Bakongo  (Alliance  des  Bakon- 
go: Abako),  27,  73 

Alliance  of  Mayombe  (Alliance  de  May- 
ombe: Alliama),  33,  73 

Almeida,  Roberto  de,  47 

Alvaro  I  (Kongo  king),  9 

Alvaro  II  (Kongo  king),  9 

Alves,  Nito  (seealso  Nitistas),  42,  164,  170, 
180,  212,  236 

Alvor  Agreement  (1975),  38,  162 

Ambundu  (Akwaluanda)  people,  71-72 

Amnesty  International,  251-55 

ANC.  See  African  National  Congress 
(ANC) 

Andrade,  Mario,  27,  41 

Angola  Airlines  (Linhas  Aereas  de  Ango- 
la: TAAG),  151 

Angolan  Border  Guard  (Tropa  Guarda 
Fronteira  Angolana:  TGFA),  248 

Angolan  Cement  Company  (Empresa  de 
Cimento  de  Angola:  Cimangola),  147 

Angolan  Directorate  of  Intelligence  and 
Security  (Direcao  de  Informacao  e 
Seguranca  de  Angola:  DISA),  247 

Angolanization  law  (Decree  20/82) 
(1982),  124 

Angolan  Journalists'  Union,  190 

Angolan  People's  Police,  248-49 

Angolan  Red  Cross,  105 

Angolan  War  Veterans'  Committee,  235 

angolar,  22 

Angol  (SACOR  subsidiary),  126 


301 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Angop  (official  news  agency),  184,  190 
armed  forces  (see  also  People's  Armed 
Forces  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 
(FAPLA)):  conscription  in,  80;  politi- 
cal power  of,  234-35;  responsibility  of, 
214-15;  security  supplement  of,  236 
Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation  of  An- 
gola (Forcas  Armadas  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola:  FALA)  (see  also  National  Un- 
ion for  the  Total  Independence  of 
Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Inde- 
pendencia  Total  de  Angola  (UNITA)), 
239-42 

Armed  Forces  Military  Tribunal,  224, 
251 

Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agen- 
cy (AC DA),  United  States,  233,  234 

army  (see  also  People's  Army  of  Angola 
(Exercito  Popular  de  Angola:  EPA)): 
organization  and  deployment  of,  215, 
217 

army  (colonial):  discrimination  in,  209; 

expansion  of,  209-10 
Ashiluanda  people,  73 
Assembly  of  God,  97,  185 
assimilados,  xxii,  4,  22,  23,  25-26,  28,  72, 

80,  160-61 
associations,  African  (see  also  assimilados), 

26-28 

associations,  farm,  136 
Austria,  133 
Austromineral,  133 

automobile  assembly  industry.  See  vehi- 
cle assembly  industry 

Bailundu  Kingdom,  6,  13 

Bakongo  (Kongo)  people  (see  also  National 
Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 
(Frente  Nacional  de  Libertacao  de  An- 
gola: FNLA)),  6-7,  9,  11-12,  24,  27, 
28,  55,  66,  72-74,  81-82,  96-97;  reli- 
gious affiliation  of,  97;  as  slave  traders, 
160 

balance  of  payments,  120,  152,  154-55 
banking  system,  154 
Bantu  speakers,  5-6,  14,  64-65 
Baptist  Convention  of  Angola,  97,  185 
Baptist  Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  97, 
184 

barter  system,  xxiv,  88,  89,  117 
Battle  of  Mbwila  (Ambuila),  11 
Belgian  Congo,  13,  21,  27 


Belgium:  in  Congo  River  Basin,  18-19; 

military  assistance  from,  224;  role  in 

Zaire  conflict  of,  207 
Benguela:  population  growth  in,  63;  as 

slave  port,  15 
Benguela  Current,  57 
Benguela  Plateau,  13,  60,  69 
Benguela  Railway,  xxiv,  21,  22,  45,  75, 

114,  147,  150,  192,  197 
Benin,  130 

Berlin  Conference  (1884),  xxii,  18,  19,  20 
Bie  Kingdom,  6,  13 
Bie  Plateau,  60 

black  market.  See  parallel  market 
BNA.  See  National  Bank  of  Angola  (Ban- 
co Nacional  de  Angola:  BNA) 
Boavida,  Diogenes,  251 
Bomba  Alta  Orthopedic  Center,  106,  108 
Botswana,  60,  77,  78,  208 
Boxer,  C.R.,  15 

BPV.  See  People's  Vigilance  Brigades 
(Brigadas  Populares  de  Vigilancia: 
BPV) 

Brazil,  15,  16;  agreements  with,  142;  An- 
gola as  de  facto  colony  of,  14;  loans 
from,  154;  military  purchases  from, 
219;  technical  and  military  assistance 
from,  197,  224;  trade  relations  with, 
120-21;  workers  from,  124 

Brazzaville,  30 

brewing  industry,  144 

Britain:  influence  in  Angola  of,  18;  mili- 
tary assistance  from,  224;  role  in 
Namibia  issue  of,  49;  trade  relations 
with,  120-21,  133 

Bulgaria,  31 

Bush,  George  P.,  xxv-xxvi 
Bushmen,  5 

Cabgoc.  See  Cabinda  Gulf  Oil  Company 
(Cabgoc) 

Cabinda  Gulf  Oil  Company  (Cabgoc), 
34,  126,  129,  130-31 

Cabinda  Province,  96,  206;  Cuban  troops 
in,  226,  237;  as  enclave,  17,  18,  33-34, 
57;  oil  fields  of,  192,  199;  separate  sta- 
tus for,  33-34;  separatist  movement  of, 
73,  237 

Caetano,  Marcello,  xxii 

Calandula,  17 

Cambambe,  10-11 

Cameroon,  130 


302 


Index 


Canada,  49,  121 

Cao,  Diogo,  7,  10,  160 

Cape  Verde,  196 

capital  movements,  113 

Caprivi  Strip,  Namibia,  244 

Carreira,  Henrique  (Iko),  178,  214,  219 

Carvalho,  Antonio  Jose  Condessa  de 

(Toka),  221 
Cassai  River,  74 
Cassinga,  46 
Castro,  Fidel,  44,  198 
Catumbela  River,  142 
CAUNC.   See  Action  Committee  for 

the  National  Union  of  Cabindans 

(CAUNC) 
CCCE.  See  Central  Board  for  Economic 

Cooperation  (CCCE) 
cement  industry,  147 
Central  Board  for  Economic  Cooperation 

(Caisse  Centrale  de  Cooperation  Eco- 

nomique:  CCCE),  137 
Central  Committee  (MPLA-PT),  168, 

171-73 

Chevron  Oil  Company,  34,  130-31 
Chilingutila,  Demosthenes  Amos,  240-41 
China:  political  support  of,  27;  relations 

with,  198;  support  for  UNITA  by,  32; 

weapons  from,  31 
Chipenda,  Daniel,  36,  38,  47,  170,  236 
Chokwe  (Cokwe)  people  {see  also  Lunda- 

Chokwe  peoples),  6,  13,  20,  74,  76,  77, 

82 

Christianity,  56,  94-97;  missionaries  for, 
70-71 

Church  of  Christ  in  the  Bush,  186 

Cimangola.  See  Angolan  Cement  Compa- 
ny (Cimangola) 

civil  unrest  (1961),  28-29 

civil  war,  xxi,  xxii-xxiii,  4,  162,  187,  205, 
210,  225 

Ciyaka  Kingdom,  6,  13 

Clark  Amendment.  See  United  States 

Click  languages  {see  also  Khoisan  lan- 
guages), 64,  79 

climate,  61 

CMEA.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 

Assistance 
coffee  industry,  22,  63,  116,  120,  137-38; 

aid  to,  29;  nationalization  of,  137; 

Ovimbundu  people  in,  70 
collectivization,  45 
colonatos  system,  25,  114 
Colonial  Act  (1930),  Angola,  21,  95 


Comandante  Economica  Communica- 
tions School,  231 

Comandante  Zhika  Political-Military 
Academy,  230 

Comira.  See  Military  Council  of  Angolan 
Resistance  (Conselho  Militar  de  Resis- 
tencia  Angolana:  Comira) 

Conceicao,  Fernando  da,  249 

Congo,  57,  130,  197,  206,  248 

Congo  River,  7,  17,  60 

Congo  River  Basin,  18,  125,  128-29,  131 

Congregational  Evangelical  Church  of 
Angola,  97,  185 

Conoco,  131 

conscription  {see  also  military  recruitment), 
80,  165,  209-10,  222 

constitution  (1911),  26 

Constitution  (1975),  159;  country's  secu- 
rity policies  in,  211-12;  guarantees  and 
rights  under,  164-65;  revision  (1980), 
170-71 

construction  materials  industry,  147 
Contact  Group,  49 

Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Discrimination  Against 
Women,  254 

Convention  on  the  Political  Rights  of 
Women,  254 

cooperants,  123,  124-25 

cooperatives,  farm,  89,  136,  184 

cotton  industry:  abolition  of  compulsory 
cultivation  in,  29;  in  light  industry, 
144,  146;  performance  of,  141 

Couceira,  Paiva,  20-21 

Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(Comecon  or  CMEA),  122,  198 

Council  of  Evangelical  Churches,  187-88 

Council  of  Ministers,  167 

Council  of  the  Revolution  (pre- 1980),  212 

counterinsurgent  activity,  34,  35,  210, 
219,  231-32 

coup  d'etat:  attempt  in  Angola,  31,  164; 
Nitista  attempt  (1977),  42,  44,  180; 
Portugal  (1974),  xxii,  4,  210;  Portugal, 
May  1926,  21 

Court  of  Appeals,  169 

court  system,  169;  civilian,  250;  military, 
213-14,  224,  251;  people's  revolution- 
ary and  people's,  169 

Coutinho,  Rosa,  35,  38,  229 

credit  system,  136,  154 

crime,  252-53 

Crocker,  Chester  A.,  205 


303 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 

Cuando  Cubango  Province,  31,  46,  79,  103 
Cuango  River,  17,  74 
Cuanza  Norte  Province,  28 
Cuanza  River,  10,  60,  142 
Cuanza  River  Valley,  or  Basin,  57,  125, 
128-29 

Cuba:  Isle  of  Youth  in,  198;  military  as- 
sistance to  MPLA  from,  38,  226;  mili- 
tary personnel  in  Angola,  xxiii,  xxvi, 
xxvii,  5,  40,  42,  44,  49-51,  80,  106, 
160,  162,  191-92,  194,  197-98,  199, 
225;  nationals  of,  102,  108,  124,  144, 
198-99;  role  in  Namibian  issue  of, 
49-50;  support  for  MPLA  of,  4-5,  162; 
support  to  SWAPO  and  ANC  by, 
226-27;  technical  assistance  from, 
220-21,  224,  226;  trade  relations  with, 
144;  training  instructors  of,  31,  198,  226 

Cubango  River.  See  Okavango  River/ 
Swamp 

Cuito  Cuanavale,  205 

Cunene  River,  39-40,  49,  60,  79,  142 

currency  (see  also  kwanza):  depreciation  of, 
xxiv,  117,  154;  plan  to  devalue,  119 

Cussu  people,  78 

Czechoslovakia,  31,  198,  224-25,  227 


21,  113-14,  131-33 

diamond  industry,  21,  22,  75,  115,  120, 
125,  13 1-33;  nationalization  of,  131-32 

Dias,  Paulo  de  Novais,  9,  10 

Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and  Ter- 
ritorial Groups,  91,  92,  219,  222, 
246-47 

DISA.  See  Angola  Directorate  of  Intelli- 
gence and  Security  (Direcao  de  Infor- 
macao  e  Seguranca  de  Angola:  DISA) 
disease,  29,  57,  105-6,  108 
displacement  camps,  63-64 
displacement  of  population,  67 
diviner  (kimbanda),  99 
Doctors  Without  Borders,  108 
Dombe  people,  70 
do  Nascimento,  Lopo,  178 
dos  Santos,  Jose  Eduardo,  47,  155,  164; 
administration  of,  xxiv-xxv,  5,  48,  49, 
50,  56,  118-19,  159-60,  167,  177-78; 
centralization  of  power  in,  176-77,  191; 
decentralization   plan   of,    178;  as 
MPLA-PT  leader,  176-77,  178 
dos  Santos  Franca,  Antonio  (Ndalu),  215 
Duque  de  Braganca  (fort),  17 
Dutch  settiers  in  Angola,  12,  14,  16 


Dack  Doy  shipyards,  140 

Dalby,  David,  78 

Dande  River,  142 

de  Almeida,  Roberto,  178,  185-86 

de  Andrade,  Mario,  27,  236 

DeBeers,  133 

Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Korea, 

224,  227 
debt,  external,  152,  154-55,  234 
de  Castro,  Mendes  Antonio,  248 
Defense  and  Security  Council,  165, 

167-68,  178,  191;  role  of,  213 
defense  policy,  165 

degredados  (exiled  criminals),  xxi,  3,  16,  19, 
209 

Dembos  people,  20,  72 

Democratic  Party  of  Angola  (Partido 
Democratico  de  Angola:  PDA),  30 

Denmark,  147 

descent  groups,  81-86 

Diamang.  See  Diamond  Company  of  An- 
gola (Companhia  de  Diamantes  de  An- 
gola: Diamang) 

Diamond  Company  of  Angola  (Compan- 
hia de  Diamantes  de  Angola:  Diamang), 


Eastern  Revolt  (1973),  170,  236 
East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 
Republic 

Economic  and  Financial  Rectification 
(Saneamento  Economico  e  Financeiro: 
SEF),  118-19 

economic  assistance:  for  fishing  industry, 
140-41;  foreign,  120-22;  in  form  of 
food  aid,  138;  from  multilateral  insti- 
tutions, 121;  from  Soviet  Union,  38, 
197;  from  United  States,  38 

economic  performance,  xxiii-xxiv,  113, 
118,  119-20,  141-42,  144,  146,  232- 
33;  under  Portuguese  rule,  4 

economic  policy:  effect  of  changes  in,  90; 
move  toward  free  enterprise  of,  88;  plan 
to  liberalize,  xxiv,  115-16;  reform  for, 
118-19 

education  system  (see  also  literacy),  57; 
Angolans  in  Cuba,  102;  foreign 
teachers  in,  102;  levels  of,  100;  for  mili- 
tary personnel,  230;  of  religious  groups, 
100;  response  to  teacher  shortage  by, 
102-3;  teacher  shortage  in,  101;  of 
UNITA,  103-4 


304 


Index 


Egypt,  197,  207,  244 

electric  power  industry  (see  also  hydroelec- 
tric power),  113 

Elf  Aquitaine,  129 

elites  as  interest  group,  184 

ELNA.  See  National  Liberation  Army  of 
Angola  (Exercito  de  Libertacao  Na- 
tional de  Angola:  ELNA) 

emigration,  113;  of  Africans  (1961),  29; 
after  independence  (1975),  44,  123 

Enatel  See  National  Telecommunications 
Company  (Empresa  National  de  Tele- 
comunicacoes:  Enatel) 

Encafe.  See  National  Coffee  Company 
(Empresa  National  de  Cafe:  Encafe) 

Encodipa.  See  National  Company  for  the 
Marketing  and  Distribution  of  Agicul- 
tural  Products  (Empresa  National  de 
Comercializacao  e  Distribuicao  de  Pro- 
dutos  Agricolas:  Encodipa) 

Endiama.  See  National  Diamond  Compa- 
ny (Empresa  nacional  de  Diamantes: 
Endiama) 

Enes,  Antonio,  20 

enterprises,  state-owned,  90,  117,  119, 
132,  135,  140,  141,  146-47 

Entex.  See  National  Textile  company 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Texteis:  Entex) 

EPA.  See  People's  Army  of  Angola  (Ex- 
ercito Popular  de  Angola:  EPA) 

EPLA.  See  People's  Army  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  Angola  (Exercito  Popular  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola:  EPLA) 

Escola  de  Oficiais  Superiores  Gomes  Spen- 
cer, 230 

Estado  Novo.  See  New  State 

ethnic  groups,  55,  64-80 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 
121-22 

European  Investment  Bank,  122 
Evangelical  Church  of  Angola,  97,  185 
Evangelical  Church  of  South- West  Ango- 
la, 97,  185 
exports:  of  coffee,  120,  137-38;  of  dia- 
monds, 120,  132;  of  iron  ore,  133,  135; 
of  oil,  113,  116,  120,  129-30;  to  Por- 
tugal, 114 


FALA.  See  Armed  Forces  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Angola  (Forcas  Armadas  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola:  FALA) 


famine,  29 

FAO.  See  United  Nations  (UN) 
FAPA/DAA.  See  People's  Air  and  Air 
Defense  Force  of  Angola  (Forca  Aerea 
Popular  de  Angola/Defesa  Aerea  y  An- 
tiaerea:  FAPA/DAA) 
FAPLA.  See  People's  Armed  Forces  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Forcas  Ar- 
madas Populares  de  Libertacao  de  An- 
gola: FAPLA) 
farmers  as  interest  group,  183-84 
farms,  commercial  (see  also  farms,  state- 
owned),  88 
farms,  state-owned,  88-89,  136 
farms,  subsistence  (see  also  cooperatives, 

farm),  88-89,  184 
fazendas,  114 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany:  aid  from, 
122,  224;  role  in  Namibia  issue  of,  49; 
trade  relations  with,  133 
Ferrangol.  See  National  Iron  Ore  Com- 
pany of  Angola  (Empresa  Nacional  de 
Ferro  de  Angola:  Ferrangol) 
Ferreira  Neto,  Bartolomeu  Feliciano,  249 
fishing  industry,  45,  140-41,  221 
FLEC .  See  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the 
Enclave  of  Cabinda  (Frente  para  a 
Libertacao  do  Enclave  de  Cabinda: 
FLEC) 

FNLA.  See  National  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola:  FNLA) 

FNLC .  See  National  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  the  Congo  (Front  National 
pour  la  Liberation  du  Congo:  FNLC) 

food  crisis,  120-22,  138 

food-processing  industry,  141,  142,  144 

food  rationing,  119 

forced  labor,  3,  4,  22-23,  24 

foreign  policy,  xxv-xxvi,  191-92 

forestry  industry  (see  also  timber  produc- 
tion; wood  processing),  140 

France:  aid  from,  122,  137,  224;  in  Con- 
go River  Basin,  18-19;  role  in  Namibia 
issue  of,  49;  role  in  Zaire  conflict,  207; 
trade  relations  with,  120-21,  131; 
workers  from,  124 

Fran  que,  Luis  Ranque,  33 

Free  Angola,  238 

Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Enclave 
of  Cabinda  (Frente  para  a  Libertacao 
do  Enclave  de  Cabinda:  FLEC),  34, 
36,  73,  187,  206,  236,  237-38 


305 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Gabon,  130 
Galvao,  Henrique,  23 
Gbadolite  Declaration  (1989),  xxi,  xxvi, 
xxvii 

geopolitical  position,  206 

German  Democratic  Republic,  124;  mili- 
tary aid  and  personnel  from,  44,  224, 
227;  trade  relations  with,  138;  training 
supplied  by,  198 

German  South  West  Africa  (see  also  Na- 
mibia), 77 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.,  xxv 

government  intervention:  in  Ovimbundu 
affairs,  83-84;  in  private  sector,  45 

GRAE.  See  Revolutionary  Government  of 
Angola  in  Exile  (Governo  Revolucion- 
ario  de  Angola  no  Exfle:  GRAE) 

guerrilla  activity,  5,  29-31,  159;  cease-fire 
in,  36;  of  MPLA  and  FNLA,  210;  of 
SWAPO,  207;  of  UNIT  A,  46,  49, 
63-64,  210 

Guinea-Bissau,  35,  36,  196 

Gulf  Oil  Company,  34,  126 


Hanya  people,  70 
health  care,  57,  61,  63,  104-8 
herders  of  cattle,  88 
Herero  people,  70,  77-78 
hills,  57,  60 
Holland,  14 
hospitals,  105,  108 
Huambo,  63,  69,  106 
Hufla  Plateau,  60 
Hufla  Province,  46 
human  rights,  254-55 
Humpata  Highland,  60 
Hungary,  122,  224,  227 
hydroelectric  power,  142;  Capanda  proj- 
ect for,  197;  potential  for,  60 

ICO.  See  International  Coffee  Organiza- 
tion (ICO) 

ICRC.  See  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross  (ICRC) 

illiteracy.  See  literacy 

Imbangala  people,  12-13,  20 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  fund 
(IMF) 

immigration:  in  nineteenth  century,  19; 

of  white  people,  25 
import  licensing,  120,  121 


imports:  of  food,  45,  116-17,  120-21, 
144;  government  control  of,  119-20, 
142,  144;  of  military  equipment,  120, 
121,  217,  224-25;  of  oil  industry  equip- 
ment, 120-21;  of  services,  153;  of  steel, 
146;  of  sugar,  144 

independence:  in  1975,  3,  4,  22,  40,  159; 
movements  for,  4,  161 

Independent  Democrats,  236-37 

indigenes,  23,  28,  161 

industrial  sector  (see  also  manufacturing 
sector):  heavy  industry  in,  146-47;  light 
industry  in,  144,  146 

inflation,  117 

infrastructure  (see  also  Benguela  Railway; 
electric  power;  ports;  railroad  system; 
roads):  destruction  of,  115;  develop- 
ment of,  21,  29,  114 

Institute  of  Geology  and  Cartography,  102 

insurgency  (see  also  guerrilla  activity):  effect 
on  economy  of,  113;  effect  on  education 
of,  102,  103;  of  UNITA,  xxiii,  29-31, 
49-51,  55,  77,  80,  105-6,  115,  159 

intelligence  services,  225-26 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat) 

interest  groups,  183-87 

International  Coffee  Organization  (ICO), 
138 

International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 
(ICRC),  105,  106 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
xxvi,  119,  155,  195 

International  Police  for  the  Defense  of  the 
State  (Policia  Internacional  de  Defesa 
de  Estado:  PIDE),  28 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  152 

Intersputnik,  152 

Interstate  Journalism  School,  190 

investment:  in  manufacturing  sector,  141; 
promotion  of,  119 

iron  ore  industry,  125,  133,  135,  150 

irrigation,  60,  136 

Isle  of  Youth  (Cuba),  198 

Israel,  244 

Italy,  124,  140 

ITM  International,  132 


Jaga  people,  7,  9 

Jamba,  103,  104,  108,  188,  242 

Japan,  133,  140 


306 


Index 


Jehovah's  Witnesses,  186,  237 

JMPLA.  See  Popular  Movement  for  the 
Liberation  of  Angola- Youth  Movement 
(Juventude  do  Movimento  Popular  de 
Libertacao  de  Angola:  JMPLA) 

Joint  Military  Monitoring  Commission, 
195,  206 

Jorge,  Paulo,  47,  178 

judicial  system,  169 


Kanini,  12-13 

Kapolo  Martyrs  Practical  Police  School, 
249 

Kasai  River,  Zaire,  13 
Kasanje  Kingdom,  6,  12-13 
Katangan  gendarmes  (see  also  National 

Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Congo 

(Front  National  pour  la  Liberation  du 

Congo:  FNLC)),  245,  246 
Katanga  Province  (Belgian  Congo)  (see 

also  Shaba  Region),  13,  21,  74 
Kenya,  36 

Khoisan  speakers,  5-6,  79,  160 

Kikongo  speakers,  66,  72,  73 

kimbanda.  See  diviner  (kimbanda) 

Kimbundu  speakers,  10,  20,  67,  71-72 

Kinshasa,  Zaire,  27,  30 

kinship  (see  also  descent  groups),  81,  86 

Kissassunda,  Ludy,  247 

Kongo  Kingdom,  3,  6-7,  9-12,  18,  27, 

66,  160,  208 
Kuwait,  197,  244 

Kwanhama  (Kwanyama)  Kingdom,  6 
Kwanhama  people,  14,  20,  77 
kwanza,  xxiv,  117 

labor  force  (see  also  Angolanization  law; 
cooperants;  forced  labor;  Statute  on  the 
Cooperant  Worker):  composition  at  in- 
dependence of,  122-23;  exploitation  of, 
113-14;  foreign  workers  in,  123-25; 
migrant  workers  and  Europeans  in,  63, 
70;  potential,  117;  unions  in,  163-64 

land  reform,  88-89 

Language  Map  of  Africa,  78 

languages:  Bantu,  64-65,  77-79;  Chok- 
we,  75,  76;  Click,  64,  79;  Kikongo,  66, 
72,  73;  Kimbundu,  67,  71-72,  75; 
Kwangali-Ge;i:uru,  78;  Liyuwa,  78; 
Lunda,  66,  75,  76;  Mashi,  78;  Minun- 
gu,  75;  of  Nganguela  people,  76;  North 


Mbukushu,  78;  Portuguese,  64-65,  67, 
104;  Ruund,  75,  76;  South  Mbukushu, 
78;  Suku,  66;  Umbundu,  69-70 

Lara,  Lucio,  50,  178 

law  on  State  Intervention  (1976),  45,  141 

League  of  Nations,  26 

Leopoldville,  Belgian  Congo,  27 

Libya,  130 

Lisbon,  26 

Lisbon  Geographical  Society,  18 

literacy,  100-101,  123 

livestock,  135,  138 

living  standards,  90 

Lobito  (port),  21,  147,  150,  221 

Lome  Convention,  121,  122 

Lonrho,  133 

lowland,  coastal,  57 

Luanda:   founding  of  (1576),    10;  as 

modern  port,  150,  220-21;  musseques  of, 

86;  as  slave  port,  15,  113 
Luanda  Naval  School,  102 
Luanda  Railway,  150,  217 
Lubango,  46,  78 
Luchazi  people,  76 

Lunda-Chokwe  peoples  (see  also  Northern 
Lunda  people;  Southern  Lunda  peo- 
ple), 74-75 

Lunda  Divide,  60 

Lunda  Kingdom,  or  Empire,  6,  13,  74 

Lunda  Norte  Province,  142 

Lunda  speakers,  66 

Lunda  Sul  Province,  76 

Lusaka,  Zambia,  31 

Lusaka  Accord  (1984),  194,  245 

Lwena  (Lovale)  people,  76 


maize-processing  industry,  144 

Malanje  Plateau,  60 

Malawi,  18,  197,  244 

Maligo  language.  See  Click  languages; 
languages 

malnutrition,  138,  232 

manikongo  (Kongo  king),  7,  10 

manufacturing  sector:  for  defense  equip- 
ment, 217;  labor  force  in,  123;  nation- 
alization of,  141;  performance  of,  117; 
under  Portuguese  rule,  141 

Maoism,  32,  41 

marriage,  91 

Marxism-Leninism,  5,  27,  31,  41,  43,  44; 
as  basis  for  education,  100;  in  court 


307 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


system,  169;  effect  on  religion  of,  92- 
94;  influence  on  social  structure  of,  80, 
87-88;  institutions  of,  56;  of  Jose  dos 
Santos,  176-77;  of  MPLA/MPLA-PT, 

159-  64;  orientation  of  mass  organiza- 
tions in,  180 

Massabi,  18 
mass  media,  189-91 
mass  organizations,  xxv,  91,  92,  160, 
180-83 

Matamba  Kingdom,  6,  12-13 

matrilineage.  See  descent  groups 

Mavinga,  xxvii,  217 

Mayombe  (Maiombe)  people,  34,  73 

Mbanza  Kongo  (Mbanza  Congo),  7 

Mbui  people,  69-70 

Mbundu  people,  10,  12-13,  15,  24,  55, 
66-67,  71-72,  75-76,  82;  as  assimilados, 
72;  religious  affiliation  of,  97;  as  slave 
traders,  160;  social  structure  of,  84-86 

medical  assistance,  foreign,  104 

medical  schools,  104 

mercenaries,  39,  229 

mestizos  {see  also  assimilados),  xxii,  3,  16,  19, 
22,  25-26,  28,  55-56,  79-80,  160, 

160-  61;  language  of,  65,  66-67;  in  so- 
cial structure,  87-88 

Methodist  Episcopal  Church  of  the  Unit- 
ed States,  97 

MGPA.  See  People's  Navy  of  Angola 
(Marinha  de  Guerra  Popular  de  Ango- 
la: MGPA) 

migration:  effect  of  UNITA  insurgency 
on,  xxiii,  63;  patterns  of,  63-64,  67;  to 
urban  areas,  24,  63,  117,  123 

military  assistance,  29-30,  224-27;  from 
Cuba,  38,  40,  42,  43,  210;  from  South 
Africa  to  FNLA-UNITA,  4-5,  39-40, 
45,  208;  from  Soviet  Union,  41-42,  43, 
197;  from  Zaire,  210 

military  auxiliary  forces,  221-22 

military  cooperation  with  Soviet  Union,  43 

Military  Council  of  Angolan  Resistance 
(Conselho  Militar  de  Resistencia  An- 
golana:  Comira),  238 

military  councils,  regional,  170,  213-14 

military  equipment:  of  air  force,  219-20; 
of  army,  217,  219;  imports  and  pur- 
chases of,  120-21,  227,  229,  234;  ser- 
vice, repair,  and  manufacture  of,  217, 
219;  of  UNITA/FALA,  242 

military  expenditure.  See  spending, 
defense 


military  ranks,  223-24 
military  recruitment,  233 
military  regions  and  fronts,  214,  215,  217, 
229,  235 

military  tribunals,  regional,  213-14,  224, 
251 

militia  forces,  219,  247 
mineral  resources,  135 
mining  industry:  for  diamonds,  21;  direct 

foreign  investment  for,  45;  for  iron  ore, 

133,  135;  Law  5/79  of,  131-32,  133; 

Portuguese  development  of,  114 
Ministry  of  Defense,  170,  217,  222, 

246-48 

Ministry  of  Domestic  and  Foreign  Trade, 
120 

Ministry  of  Health,  105,  106 

Ministry  of  Interior,  247,  248 

Ministry  of  Justice,  169,  250 

Ministry  of  Planning,  120 

Ministry  of  State  Security,  247-48,  251 

Minungu  people,  75 

missionaries:  Protestant,  95-96;  Roman 

Catholic,  95-96 
MLEC .  See  Movement  for  the  Liberation 

of  the  Enclave  of  Cabinda  (Mouvement 

pour  la  Liberation  de  1' Enclave  de 

Cabinda:  MLEC) 
Mobilization   and  Recruitment  Law 

(1978),  222 
Mobil  Oil  Company,  130 
Mobutu  Sese  Seko,  xxi,  30,  35,  42,  196, 

206 

Mocamedes  (Namibe),  17,  78,  135 
Moises,  David  Antonio,  212 
monetary  policy,  119 
Morocco,  29,  197,  207,  244 
mortality  rates,  57,  62,  106 
mountains,  57,  60 

Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  the  En- 
clave of  Cabinda  (Mouvement  pour  la 
Liberation  de  1' Enclave  de  Cabinda: 
MLEC),  33 

Moxico  Province,  31,  75-76 

Mozambique,  18,  20,  35,  113,  194,  196,  208 

MPLA.  See  Popular  Movement  for  the 
Liberation  of  Angola  (Movimento  Popu- 
lar de  Libertacao  de  Angola:  MPLA) 

MPLA-PT.  See  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola-Workers' 
Party  (Movimento  Popular  de  Liber- 
tacao de  Angola-Partido  de  Trabalho: 
MPLA-PT) 


308 


Index 


Mtoko,  Simon  (Simao  Toco),  94,  186-87, 
237 

Mtokoists,  94,  186-87,  237 
musseques,  64,  86-87 

Namib  Desert,  57 

Namibe  (port),  17,  78,  135,  140,  150-51, 
221 

Namibe  Railway,  147,  150 

Namibia,  14,  77,  78;  border  with,  57, 
207,  248;  occupation  by  South  Africa 
of,  49-50,  160,  191-92,  194;  role  of 
Canada  in,  49;  South  West  Africa  Peo- 
ple's Organization  (SWAPO)  of,  39, 
191,  221-22;  status  of,  48-50;  training 
ground  for  UNITA,  46,  242,  244 

National  Bank  of  Angola  (Banco  Nacional 
de  Angola:  BNA),  120,  152,  154 

National  Coffee  Company  (Empresa  Na- 
cional de  Cafe:  Encafe),  137 

National  Company  for  the  Marketing  and 
Distribution  of  Agricultural  Products 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Comercializacao 
e  Distribuicao  de  Produtos  Agncolas: 
Encodipa),  118,  136 

National  Court  Administration,  169 

National  Diamond  Company  (Empresa 
Nacional  de  Diamantes:  Endiama), 
132-33 

National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  An- 
gola (Frente  Nacional  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola:  FNLA),  xxii,  4-5,  24,  27, 
30-31,  36,  73-74,  161;  in  Angola,  35; 
establishes  government  with  UNITA 
(1975),  40;  grant  from  United  States  to, 
38;  loses  support,  187;  opposition  to 
MPLA-PT  by,  236;  in  provisional 
government  (1975),  38;  relationship 
with  Bakongo,  xxii,  27,  73-74,  161 

National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the 
Congo  (Front  National  pour  la  Liber- 
ation du  Congo:  FNLC),  42,  76,  246 

National  Fuel  Company  of  Angola  (So- 
ciedade  Nacional  de  Combustiveis  de 
Angola:  Sonangol),  124-31 

National  Health  Service,  104-5 

National  Iron  Ore  Company  of  Angola 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Ferro  de  Ango- 
la: Ferrangol),  133 

nationalism,  23-24,  25,  34,  36-37,  161; 
Bakongo  role  in,  73-74;  mestigo  role  in, 
80,  161 


nationalization,  45,  115,  117,  126-27, 
137,  141 

National  Liberation  Army  of  Angola  (Ex- 
ercito  de  Libertacao  Nacional  de  An- 
gola: ELNA),  29-30 

National  Literacy  Commission,  101 

National  Party  School,  41 

National  Petroleum  Institute,  124 

National  Telecommunications  Company 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Telecomunica- 
coes:  Enatel),  152 

National  Textile  Company  (Empresa  Na- 
cional de  Texteis:  Entex),  146 

National  Union  for  the  Total  Indepen- 
dence of  Angola  (Uniao  Nacional  para 
a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola:  UN- 
ITA), xxii,  4-5,  24,  35,  36;  attacks  on 
diamond  industry  of,  132;  education 
system  of,  103-4,  188;  establishes 
government  with  FNLA  (1975),  40; 
ethnic  representation  in,  75,  77,  78,  94, 
188-89;  external  military  training  for, 
244;  fighting  with  FAPLA  of,  xxvii, 
231-32,  238-39;  fighting  with  SWAPO 
of,  222;  formation  and  role  of,  32,  187; 
health  care  system  of,  104,  108,  188; 
infrastructure  destruction  by,  xxvii, 
142,  147,  150-51;  insurgency  of,  45, 
49-51,  56,  57,  63,  75,  77,  80-81,  84, 
90,  135,  137-38,  159-60,  186,  205, 
238-39;  military  bases  of,  84;  military 
organization  of  (FALA),  239-42;  as  op- 
position force,  236;  in  provisional 
government  (1975),  38;  radio  broad- 
casts of,  190;  support  from  South  Afri- 
ca for,  160,  162,  192;  support  from 
United  States  for,  38,  194,  244 

National  Union  of  Angolan  Workers 
(Uniao  Nacional  dos  Trabalhadores 
Angolanos:  UNTA),  105,  123,  163-64, 
180-82 

National  Youth  Day,  180 

natural  gas  industry,  130 

natural  resources,  3 

navy.  See  People's  Navy  of  Angola  (Marinha 
de  Guerra  Popular  de  Angola:  MGPA) 

Ndembu  (Ndembo)  people,  74 

Ndongo  Kingdom,  6,  10-12,  208 

Netherlands,  120-21 

Neto,  Agostinho,  5,  30,  31,  36,  39,  72, 
161-62,  170;  administration  of,  41-42, 
43,  44,  46-47,  94,  163;  as  MPLA  lead- 
er, 176;  opposition  to,  236 


309 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


Neto,  Alberto  Correia,  219 

Neto,  Ruth,  182-83 

New  State,  Portugal,  3,  21,  23 

Nganda  people,  70 

Nganguela  (Ganguela)  people,  76-77 

ngola  a  kiluanje,  10,  12 

Ngouabi,  Merien,  31 

Nigeria,  130,  162,  196,  221 

Nitistas,  42-43,  164,  180 

Nkomati  Accord  (1984),  246 

Nonaligned  Movement,  27 

Northern  Lunda  people,  74 

Northern  Regional  Enterprise  for  the  Ex- 
ploitation of  Scrap  Metal,  146 

North  Korea.  See  Democratic  People's 
Republic  of  Korea 

Nyaneka-Humbe  people,  77 

Nyasaland,  18 

Nzinga,  12 

Nzita,  Henriques  Tiago,  33-34 


OAU.  See  Organization  of  African  Uni- 
ty (OAU) 

OCA.  See  Organization  of  Angolan  Com- 
munists (Organizacao  das  Comunistas 
de  Angola:  OCA) 

ODP.  See  People's  Defense  Organization 
(Organizacao  de  Defesa  Popular:  ODP) 

oil  industry,  34,  45,  114,  115,  116,  117- 
18;  development  and  production  of, 
125-28;  imports  of  equipment  for, 
120-21,  131;  nationalization  of,  126- 
27;  performance  of,  113,  233;  refining, 
130;  revenues  from,  120,  125 

Okavango  River/Swamp,  60 

OMA.  See  Organization  of  Angolan 
Women  (Organizacao  da  Mulher  An- 
golana:  OMA) 

OPA.  See  Agostinho  Neto  Organization 
of  Pioneers  (Organizacao  dos  Pioneiros 
Agostinho  Neto:  OPA) 

OPEC.  See  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC) 

Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 
30-31,  36,  38-39,  162,  195-96 

Organization  of  Angolan  Communists 
(Organizacao  das  Comunistas  de  An- 
gola: OCA),  41 

Organization  of  Angolan  Women  (Or- 
ganizacao da  Mulher  Angolana: 
OMA),  91,  103,  105,  180-82,  250 

Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 


Countries  (OPEC),  130 

orthopedic  centers,  106,  108 

Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  Church  in  the 
World  (Mtokoists),  94,  97,  185, 
186-87,  237 

Ovambo  people  {see  also  South  West  Afri- 
ca People's  Organization:  SWAPO), 
70,  77-78,  82,  207 

Ovimbundu  people,  13-14,  15,  19-20, 
24,  55,  76,  77,  82;  migration  of,  63;  so- 
cial structure  of,  83-84;  in  UNITA,  71 


Paihama,  Kundi,  47,  247-48 
Paiva  da  Silva,  Domingos,  219 
Pan-African  Congress,  Third,  26 
Pan- African  News  Agency,  191 
Pan- African  Women's  Organization 

(PAWO),  182-83 
parallel  market  (black  market)  xxiv,  117, 

119 

Paris  Club,  155 

Party  of  the  United  Struggle  of  Africans 
of  Angola  (Partido  da  Luta  Unida  dos 
Africanos  de  Angola:  PLUA),  26 

patrilineage.  See  descent  groups 

Paulo,  Juliao  Mateus  (Dino  Matross), 
212,  213,  247 

PAWO.  See  Pan- African  Women's  Or- 
ganization (PAWO) 

PCP.  See  Portuguese  Communist  Party 
(Partido  Comunista  Portugues:  PCP) 

PDA.  See  Democratic  Party  of  Angola 
(Partido  Democratico  de  Angola:  PDA) 

People's  Air  and  Air  Defense  Force  of  An- 
gola (Forca  Aerea  Popular  de  Ango- 
la/Defesa  Aerea  y  Antiaerea:  FAPA/ 
DAA),  219-20 

People's  Armed  Forces  for  the  Liberation 
of  Angola  (Forcas  Armadas  Populares 
de  Libertacao  de  Angola:  FAPLA), 
xxvi,  39,  49;  civil  war  against  UNITA 
of,  187;  constitutional  fiat  for,  165,  235; 
equipment  from  Soviet  Union  for,  217; 
foreign  military  forces  in,  221-22;  for- 
mation and  development  of,  210-11; 
military  performance  of,  231-32;  po- 
litical control  by  MPLA  of,  212-13; 
role  of  ODP  in,  219 

People's  Army  for  the  Liberation  of  An- 
gola (Exercito  Popular  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola:  EPLA),  210 

People's  Army  of  Angola  (Exercito  Popu- 


310 


Index 


lar  de  Angola:  EPA),  214 

People's  Assembly,  xxv,  168,  170-71;  as 
organ  of  MPLA-PT,  48;  replaces 
Council  of  the  Revolution  (1980),  212 

People's  Defense  Organization  (Or- 
ganizacao  de  Defesa  Popular:  ODP)  {see 
also  Directorate  of  People's  Defense  and 
Territorial  Troops),  91,  219,  247 

People's  Liberation  Army  of  Namibia 
(PLAN),  245-46 

People's  Navy  of  Angola  (Marinha  de 
Guerra  Popular  de  Angola:  MGPA), 
220-21 

"people's  power,"  163,  165 

People's  Republic  of  Angola,  40 

People's  Revolutionary  Tribunal,  250-51 

People's  Vigilance  Brigades  (Brigadas 
Populares  de  Vigilancia:  BPV),  92, 
217,  246,  249-50 

Permanent  Commission,  168 

Petrangol.  See  Petroleum  Company  of  An- 
gola (Companhia  de  Petroleos  de  An- 
gola: Petrangol) 

Petroleum  Company  of  Angola  (Com- 
panhia de  Petroleos  de  Angola:  Petran- 
gol), 125-26,  130 

Petroleum  Law  (13/78)  (1978),  126-27 

phosphate  deposits,  135 

physicians,  108 

PIDE.  See  International  Police  for  the 
Defense  of  the  State  (Policia  Interna- 
cional  de  Defesa  de  Estado:  PIDE) 

Piedade  dos  Santos,  Fernando  Dias  da, 
248-49 

plains,  high,  57 

PLAN.  See  People's  Liberation  Army  of 

Namibia  (PLAN) 
planalto.  See  plateau,  high 
plantations,  88,  115,  135-36,  144 
plateau,  high,  57,  60 
PLUA.  See  Party  of  the  United  Struggle 

of  Africans  of  Angola  (Partido  da  Luta 

Unida   dos  Africanos   de  Angola: 

PLUA) 
Poland,  224-25,  227 
police:  force,  248;  functions,  219;  school, 

249 

Political  Bureau  (MPLA-PT),  167,  168, 
171-73 

political  system:  anticolonial  groups  in, 
26-27;  elements  of  change  in,  xxviii; 
opposition  to,  4;  opposition  to  MPLA- 
PT  in,  236 


Polytechnical  Institute,  104 

pombeiros,  15 

Pombo  people,  72-73 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Angola  (Movimento  Popular  de  Liber- 
tacao de  Angola:  MPLA),  xxii,  4-5, 
24,  26-27,  30-31,  36,  75;  bases  in  Afri- 
ca of,  170;  competition  with  UNITA 
by,  32-33,  159;  in  Congo  (Zaire),  161; 
control  of  UNTA  by,  163-64;  defeats 
FNLA,  40-41;  effect  of  counterinsur- 
gency  on,  35;  establishes  government 
(1975),  40,  159,  205;  First  Party  Con- 
gress of,  41,  87,  164;  incursions  into 
Cabinda  of,  34;  Marxist  orientation  of, 
160-63;  as  official  government  (1975), 
41;  political  control  of  FAPLA  by,  39, 
212;  in  provisional  government  (1975), 
38;  support  from  Soviet  Union  to,  38, 
205;  ties  to  communist  countries  of,  31 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Angola- Workers'  Party  (Movimento 
Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola- 
Partido  de  Trabalho:  MPLA-PT),  41, 
44,  46-47,  159,  213;  Central  Commit- 
tee and  Political  Bureau  of,  xxv,  167, 
168,  171-73,  191;  ethnic  group  repre- 
sentation in,  77;  First  Party  Congress 
of,  41,  87,  164;  foreign  policy  of, 
191-200;  government  control  by,  117; 
government  of,  xxv,  48;  internal  secu- 
rity mechanism  of,  236;  Marxist- 
Leninist  philosophy  of,  56,  92-94, 
159-60,  176;  mestigos  in,  80,  176;  op- 
position to  government  of,  235-38; 
party  congress  of,  173-74;  president  as 
head  of,  167;  regional  military  councils 
and  tribunals  of,  213-14;  relations  with 
interest  groups  of,  183-87;  role  of 
OMA  in,  182-83;  Second  Party  Con- 
gress of,  50-51,  178;  structure  and 
operation  of,  171-74,  176,  191;  subor- 
dination of  People's  Assembly  to, 
168-69;  UNITA  opposition  to,  187-89 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Angola- Youth  Movement  Quventude 
do  Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao 
de  Angola:  JMPLA),  91,  102-3, 
180-81,  213 

population:  ages  of,  62;  distribution  of, 
57,  60,  62-63;  estimates  of,  55,  61; 
growth  of,  61-63;  ratio  of  Bakongo  peo- 
ple in,  72;  ratio  of  Lunda-Chokwe 


311 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


peoples  in,  74;  ratio  of  Mbundu  peo- 
ple in,  71;  ratio  of  Ovimbundu  in,  69; 
ratio  of  Portuguese  in,  22;  structural 
changes  in,  63-64 

ports,  135,  150-51,  220-21 

Portugal:  advisers  and  training  assistance 
from,  221,  229;  Angola  as  colony  of, 
xxi-xxii,  3-4,  10,  17-19,  113-15,  160, 
208-9;  anticolonial  expression  toward, 
26-28,  209;  cedes  independence,  40; 
colonial  policy  of,  20-22,  24,  209; 
cooperation  of  South  Africa  with,  39; 
counterinsurgency  of,  34-35,  210;  coup 
d'etat  in,  21,  162;  domestic  problems 
of,  16-17;  effect  of  wars  in  Africa  on, 
35;  expansion  in  Angola  of,  17-18;  ex- 
ploration of,  7;  loans  from,  154;  mili- 
tary presence  of,  20,  28-29,  35-36,  229; 
New  State  regime  in,  3,  21,  23;  policy 
for  economic  development  of,  114;  set- 
tlement policy  of,  25,  83-84;  trade  re- 
lations with,  121 ;  UNITA  students  in, 
104;  workers  from,  124 

Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido 
Comunista  Portugues:  PCP),  27,  161 

Portuguese  Enterprises  Corporation  (So- 
ciedade  Portuguesa  de  Empreendimen- 
tos:  SPE),  132-33 

Portuguese  in  Angola,  xxii,  3,  63,  78,  79, 
87,  88,  114,  117,  124,  135,  141 

precipitation,  57,  61 

president,  165,  167;  dual  role  of,  214 

press  representatives,  international,  190 

price  system,  119 

prison  system,  252 

privatization,  90,  119 

Protestant  religions,  56,  97,  185-86;  in 
Angola  proper,  97;  relations  with  gov- 
ernment of,  94 

Public  Telecommunications  Company 
(Empresa  Publica  de  Telecomunica- 
coes:  Eptel),  152 

purge  by  MPLA-PT,  42,  164 


racial  conflict  (see  also  assimilados;  indige- 

nas;  mestigos),  22 
racial  discrimination,  4,  160-61 
Radio  Nacional  de  Angola,  190 
railroad  defense  committees,  217 
railroad  system,  Angola,  135,  147,  150 
railroad  system,  Central  Africa,  147 
Reagan,  Ronald,  130-31 


rebellions,  28-29,  170,  236 
rectification  campaign,  180,  183,  186 
Redinha,  Jose,  78 

Reformed  Evangelical  Church  of  Ango- 
la, 97,  185 

refugees,  29,  61,  73-74,  80-81;  camps 
for,  105-6,  113,  232;  from  Katanga, 
75-76;  Ovimbundu  people  as,  84; 
refuge  status  of  Angola  as,  224-46 

religion:  effect  of  Marxism-Leninism  on, 
92-94;  indigenous,  97-99 

religious  communities  as  interest  group, 
185-87,  237 

religious  institutions,  56 

repair  facilities,  military,  217,  219, 
220-21 

resettlement  program:  for  Ovimbundu 
people,  83-84;  of  Portugal,  34-35,  91, 
210 

Revolutionary  Cabindan  Committee  (Co- 
mite  Revolutionnaire  Cabindais),  34 

Revolutionary  Government  of  Angola  in 
Exile  (Governo  Revolucionario  de  An- 
gola no  Exflo:  GRAE),  30 

Rhodesia,  18 

river  navigation,  60 

river  systems,  60,  142 

roads,  29,  114,  147 

Roan  Selection  Trust  (RST)  Internation- 
al, 132 

Roberto,  Holden,  30,  32,  36,  39,  187,  237 
Rodrigues,  Manuel  Alexandre  (Kito),  47, 
248-49 

Roman  Catholic  Church:  relations  with 
government  of,  93-94,  237;  ties  to  Por- 
tugal of,  186 

Roman  Catholicism,  56,  96-97 

Romania,  227 

Roque  Santeiro  (market),  90 

Ruacana  hydroelectric  complex,  39-40 

rubber  industry:  boom  in,  21;  Ovimbun- 
du people  in,  70 

Rundu,  Namibia,  242 

Ruund  people  (see  also  Northern  Lunda 
people;  Southern  Lunda  people),  74-75 

Sa  da  Bandeira,  Marques  de,  17 
Sa  da  Bandeira  (town),  78 
SACOR,  126 

SADCC.  See  Southern  Africa  Develop- 
ment and  Coordination  Council 
(SADCC) 


312 


Index 


SADF.  See  South  African  Defense  Force 
(SADF) 

Salazar,  Antonio,  xxii,  21,  209;  adminis- 
tration of,  3-4,  23,  25,  29;  colonial  eco- 
nomic policy  of,  34 

Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  196,  215 

Saudi  Arabia,  197,  244 

Savimbi,  Jonas,  32,  36,  39,  71,  103;  es- 
tablishes UNIT  A,  187;  as  leader  of 
UNITA,  238-39;  religious  issue  of, 
186;  role  in  Gbadolite  Declaration,  xxi; 
support  from  other  African  countries 
for,  38 

Scandinavia,  124 

scrap  metal  industry,  146 

Sebastiao  (king  of  Portugal),  9 

security,  internal,  236;  forces  and  organi- 
zation of,  246-50 

SEF.  See  Economic  and  Financial  Rectifi- 
cation (Saneamento  Economico  e  Finan- 
ceiro:  SEF) 

Senegal,  197,  244 

Serra  da  Chela  mountain  range,  60 
sertanejos  (people  of  the  frontier),  20 
service  sector,  123 

Seventh-Day  Adventist  Church,  97,  185, 
186 

Shaba  Region,  Zaire,  13,  21,  42,  75-76, 

147,  196 
Shell  Oil  Company,  130 
Shinji  people,  75 
shipyards,  140 
Silva,  Jose  Adao,  249 
slavery,  3,  16,  17 

slave  trade,  xxi,  3,  7-8,  10,  11,  14-16, 
113,  208;  Ovimbundu  people  in,  70; 
Portuguese  in,  14-16,  17 

social  structure  (see  also  descent  groups; 
kinship):  Africans  in,  22-24,  27-28;  ef- 
fect of  UNITA  insurgency  on,  91-92; 
influence  of  Marxism-Leninism  on,  80; 
of  Mbundu  people,  84-86;  of  Ovim- 
bundu people,  83-84;  of  Portuguese 
colonialism,  24;  in  rural  areas,  88-90; 
units  of,  81 

Solongo  people,  73 

Somalia,  197,  244 

Sonangol.  See  National  Fuel  Company  of 
Angola  (Sociedade  Nacional  de  Com- 
bustfveis  de  Angola:  Sonangol) 

sorcerer,  98-99 

Sosso  people,  72 

South  Africa:  incursions  and  border  war 


with,  46,  162,  194,  205,  206,  244-45; 
involvement  in  Angola  of,  39,  43;  mili- 
tary action  against  SWAPO  of,  207-8, 
245;  refugees  from,  61;  role  in  Namibia 
of,  49-50,  160,  191-92,  194,  205, 
206-7;  support  and  sponsorship  of 
UNITA  by,  xxvii,  4-5,  45,  160,  162, 
192,  205,  207-8,  210,  238,  242;  troops 
in  Angola,  xxiii,  xxvii,  5,  40,  44,  49, 
133,  135,  138,  207-8 
South  African  Air  Force  (SAAF),  49,  242 
South  African  Defense  Force  (SADF),  46, 
207;  Operation  Protea  of,  49;  support 
for  UNITA  by,  49,  210 
Southern  Africa  Development  and  Coor- 
dination Council  (SADCC),  124,  125, 
150,  196 
Southern  Lunda  people,  74-75 
South  West  Africa  People's  Organization 
(SWAPO),  39,  46,  49,  78;  base  and  ac- 
tivity in  Angola  of,   191-92,  207, 
244-46;  MPLA-PT  support  for,  244; 
PLAN:  military  wing  of,  245 
Soviet  Union:  agreements  with,  140,  142; 
Angolans  studying  in,  102;  in  educa- 
tion system,  102,  198,  230;  loans  from, 
154;  military  advisers  and  supplies 
from,  5,  38,  40,  152,  162,  226,  229; 
military  supplies  to  FAPLA  from,  xxvi, 
217,  224-25;  political  support  of,  27, 
194;  presence  in  Angola  of,  49;  rela- 
tions with,  197-98;  support  for  MPLA 
by,  xxiii,  4-5,  31,  162;  technical  as- 
sistance from,    122,    197,  220-21, 
225-27;  trade  relations  with,  120-21, 
198;  treaty  with,  43 
Sozinho,  Antonio  Eduardo,  33 
Spain:  agreements  with,  140;  assistance 
from,  224;  trade  relations  with,  120-21; 
workers  from,  124 
SPE.  See  Portuguese  Enterprises  Corpo- 
ration (Sociedade  Portuguesa  de  Em- 
preendimentos:  SPE) 
spending,  defense,  xxiv,  116,  118,  233-35 
spending,  government,  116,  118,  141 
Spmola,  Antonio  de,  35-36,  38 
spirits,  religious,  98-99 
states  or  kingdoms,  indigenous,  3,  6,  10, 
69 

Statute  on  the  Cooperant  Worker,  124-25 
steel  industry,  146 

subsidies:  for  coffee  industry,  137;  plan 
to  eliminate,  119 


313 


Angola:  A  Country  Study 


sugar  industry,  144 

Suku  speakers,  66 

Supreme  Court,  169 

SWAPO.  See  South  West  Africa  People's 

Organization  (SWAPO) 
Sweden,  122 
Switzerland,  224 


TAAG.  See  Angola  Airlines  (Linhas  Aer- 

eas  de  Angola:  TAAG) 
Tanzania,  31,  208,  244 
technical  assistance,  122;  to  agricultural 

sector,  136;  from  Soviet  Union,  122, 

197,  220-21,  225-27 
telecommunications,  151-52 
telecommunications  industry,  113 
Texaco  Oil  Company,  126,  131 
Textang-I,  146 
Textang-II,  144 
textile  industry,  144,  146 
TGFA.  See  Angolan  Border  Guard  (Tropa 

Guarda  Fronteira  Angolana:  TGFA) 
timber  production,  140 
Togo,  197 
Tombua,  140-41 

Tonha,  Pedro  Maria  (Pedale),  214 
training:  medical,  108;  military,  229-31; 

police,  248-49;  technical,  124,  230-31 
transportation  system,  90,  113,  147-51 
Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation, 

Angola-Soviet  Union  (1975),  43,  197 
Tunisia,  29,  197,  244 


U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees,  81 

Ui'ge  Province,  28,  63 

Umbundu  speakers,  69-70 

Umkhonto  we  Sizwe,  246 

UNDP.  See  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP) 

UNICEF.  See  United  Nations  Children's 
Fund  (UNICEF) 

UNIDO.  See  United  Nations  Industrial 
Development  Organization  (UNIDO) 

Union  of  Angolan  Peoples  (Uniao  das 
Populacoes  de  Angola:  UP  A),  27, 
29-30,  73-74,  161-62 

Union  of  Evangelical  Churches  of  Ango- 
la, 97,  185 

Union  of  Peoples  of  Northern  Angola 
(Uniao  das  Populacoes  do  Norte  de  An- 
gola: UPNA),  27,  161 


Union  of  Young  Communists'  School, 
Cuba,  198 

UNITA.  See  National  Union  for  the  To- 
tal Independence  of  Angola  (Uniao  Na- 
cional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de 
Angola:  UNITA) 

United  Church  of  Christ,  187 

United  Methodist  Church,  97,  185 

United  Nations  Children's  Fund 
(UNICEF),  106 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  146 

United  Nations  Industrial  Development 
Organization  (UNIDO),  146 

United  Nations  Transition  Assistance 
Group  (UNTAG),  194 

United  Nations  (UN):  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization  (FAO),  137;  mem- 
bership in,  162;  protest  by  African 
Agnolans  to,  26;  role  in  1961  uprising, 
29;  Security  Council  Resolution  435 
(1978),  194;  World  Food  Programme 
(WFP),  122,  137 

United  States:  Central  Intelligence  Agen- 
cy (CIA)  of,  39,  62;  Clark  Amendment, 
200;  Export-Import  Bank  of,  131;  fund- 
ing and  support  for  FNLA  and  UNI- 
TA, xxiii,  xxv-xxvii,  4-5,  38,  44,  199, 
238,  244;  relations  with,  197,  199;  role 
in  civil  war  of,  162,  199;  role  in 
Namibia  issue  of,  49-50,  51;  trade  re- 
lations with,  120-21,  131 

universities,  102,  124,  198 

University  of  Angola,  124 

UNTA.  See  National  Union  of  Angolan 
Workers  (Uniao  Nacional  dos  Trabal- 
hadores  Angolanos:  UNTA) 

UNTAG.  See  United  Nations  Transition 
Assistance  Group  (UNTAG) 

UPA.  See  Union  of  Angolan  Peoples 
(Uniao  das  Populacoes  de  Angola: 
UPA) 

UPNA.  See  Union  of  Peoples  of  North- 
ern Angola  (Uniao  das  Populacoes  do 
Norte  de  Angola:  UPNA) 

urban  areas,  105,  108 


Van  Dunem,  Afonso  (Mbinda),  199 
Van  Dunem,  Fernando  Jose  de  Franca 

Dias,  251 
Van  Dunem,  Jose,  42 
vehicle  assembly  industry,  146-47,  219 


314 


Index 


Vieira,  Armindo  Fernandes  do  Espirito 
Santo,  249 

Vinama,  Alberto  Joaquim,  241 

Voice  of  Resistance  of  the  Black  Cocker- 
el, 190 

von  Bismarck,  Otto,  18 


wages,  123 

war  for  independence  (1961-74),  xxii, 

29-36,  209-10 
water  supply  system,  141 
West  Germany.  See  Federal  Republic  of 

Germany 
WFP.  See  United  Nations  (UN) 
wheat-milling  industry,  144 
witches,  98-99 

women:  in  military  role,  92,  223;  role  in 
society  of,  90-91;  in  UNITA/FALA, 
241 

wood-processing  industry,  144 
World  Bank:  membership  in,  119,  155, 
195 

World  Health  Organization,  106 
Xindonga  people,  78 


Xu-Angola  language.  See  Click  languages; 
language 

Yugoslavia,  122,  224,  22 

Zaire,  13,  21,  27,  45,  147;  Bakongo  peo- 
ple in,  72,  196;  border  with,  42,  57,  60, 
207,  248;  haven  for  FNLA  and  FLEC, 
206;  Katangan  gendarmes  in  Angola, 
246;  Katanga  Province  in,  75;  Ndem- 
bu  people  in,  74;  refugees  in,  80,  197, 
209;  relations  with  Angola  of,  196, 
206-7;  Shaba  Region  of,  75-76,  196, 
207;  support  for  UNITA  by,  xxvii, 
196,  207,  244;  support  from  China  for, 
199;  withdraws  support  for  FLEC,  237 

Zambezi  River,  60 

Zambia,  18,  45,  78,  147;  assistance  from 
and  relations  with,  31,  206,  208;  border 
with,  57,  248;  citizen  support  for 
UNITA,  196-97,  244;  Ndembu  peo- 
ple in,  74;  refugees  in,  77,  80,  197;  sup- 
port for  MPLA-PT  of,  196 

Zimbabwe,  18,  121,  208 


315 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

317 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

318 


PIN:  004225-000 


