area  handbook  series 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

and  Georgia 

country  studies 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

and  Georgia 

country  studies 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Glenn  E.  Curtis 
Research  Completed 
March  1 994 


On  the  cover:  Cultural  artifacts  from  Georgia  (upper 
left)  and  Azerbaijan  (right),  and  folk  costume  from 
Armenia 


First  Edition,  First  Printing,  1995. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia  :  country  studies  /  Fed- 
eral Research  Division,  Library  of  Congress  ;  edited  by 
Glenn  E.  Curtis. — 1st  ed. 


p.  cm.— (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DAPam  ;  550-111) 


"Research  completed  March  1994." 
Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  257-68)  and 
index. 

ISBN  0-8444-0848-4 

1.  Transcaucasia — Handbooks,  manuals,  etc.  I.  Curtis, 
Glenn  E.  (Glenn  Eldon),  1946-  .  II.  Library  of  Congress. 
Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series: 


DAPam  ;  550-111. 
DK509.A727  1995 
947'.9-dc20 


94-45459 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-111 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  DC.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared 
by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress 
under  the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  spon- 
sored by  the  Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  two  pages  of  this 
book  list  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  coun- 
try, describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and 
national  security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the 
interrelationships  of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are 
shaped  by  cultural  factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisci- 
plinary  team  of  social  scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a 
basic  understanding  of  the  observed  society,  striving  for  a 
dynamic  rather  than  a  static  portrayal.  Particular  attention  is 
devoted  to  the  people  who  make  up  the  society,  their  origins, 
dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  common  interests  and  the 
issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature  and  extent  of  their 
involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their  attitudes 
toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and  political 
order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should 
not  be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States 
government  position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have 
sought  to  adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity. 
Corrections,  additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  read- 
ers will  be  welcomed  for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540-5220 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  are  indebted  to  numerous  individuals  and 
organizations  who  gave  their  time,  research  materials,  and 
expertise  on  affairs  in  the  nations  of  the  Transcaucasus  to  pro- 
vide data,  perspective,  and  material  support  for  this  volume. 

The  collection  of  accurate  and  current  information  was 
assisted  greatly  by  the  contributions  of  Professor  Stephen  Jones 
of  Mount  Holyoke  College,  Dee  Ann  Holisky,  Betty  Blair  of 
Azerbaijan  International,  and  Joseph  Masih  of  the  Armenian 
Assembly  of  America.  The  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity 
of  individuals  and  public  and  private  agencies — including  Azer- 
baijan International,  the  Embassy  of  Azerbaijan,  and  the  White 
House  Photo  Office — who  allowed  their  photographs  to  be 
used  in  this  study. 

Thanks  also  go  to  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the 
Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  for  the  Department 
of  the  Army.  In  addition,  the  authors  appreciate  the  advice  and 
guidance  of  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  Federal  Research  Division  coor- 
dinator of  the  handbook  series.  Special  thanks  go  to  Marilyn  L. 
Majeska,  who  supervised  editing;  Andrea  T.  Merrill,  who  man- 
aged production;  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  designed  the  book 
cover  and  the  illustrations  on  the  title  page  of  each  chapter, 
provided  graphics  support,  and,  together  with  Thomas  D.  Hall, 
prepared  the  maps;  and  Helen  Fedor,  who  obtained  and  orga- 
nized the  photographs.  The  following  individuals  are  gratefully 
acknowledged  as  well:  Vincent  Ercolano,  who  edited  the  chap- 
ters; Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word 
processing;  Catherine  Schwartzstein,  who  performed  the  final 
prepublication  editorial  review;  Joan  C.  Cook,  who  compiled 
the  index;  and  Stephen  C.  Cranton  and  David  P.  Cabitto,  who 
prepared  the  camera-ready  copy. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xiii 

Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events    xv 

Introduction  —   xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Armenia   1 

Glenn  E.  Curtis  and  Ronald  G.  Suny 

COUNTRY  PROFILE   3 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND   9 

The  Ancient  Period   9 

Early  Christianity   10 

The  Middle  Ages    11 

Between  Russia  and  Turkey   11 

World  War  I  and  Its  Consequences   15 

The  Communist  Era    17 

Nagorno-Karabakh  and  Independence    20 

PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT   25 

Topography  and  Drainage    26 

Climate   27 

Environmental  Problems   27 

POPULATION  AND  ETHNIC  COMPOSITION   29 

Population  Characteristics   29 

Ethnic  Minorities   31 

LANGUAGE,  RELIGION,  AND  CULTURE   32 

Language   33 

Religion   33 

The  Armenian  Diaspora   35 

Culture   36 

EDUCATION,  HEALTH,  AND  WELFARE   38 

Education   38 

Health   39 

Social  Welfare   41 


vii 


THE  ECONOMY    41 

Modern  Economic  History   42 

Natural  Resources   44 

Agriculture   44 

Industry   45 

Energy   46 

Postcommunist  Economic  Reform   48 

Labor  and  the  Standard  of  Living   51 

The  National  Financial  Structure    52 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications    53 

Foreign  Trade    56 

GOVERNMENT  AND  POLITICS    57 

Parliament    58 

The  Presidency    59 

State  Administrative  Bodies    59 

The  Judiciary    60 

The  Constitution   60 

Local  Government    61 

Political  Parties    61 

Human  Rights    62 

The  Media   63 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   64 

Azerbaijan   64 

Georgia,  Iran,  and  Turkey    65 

The  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States   67 

The  United  States   68 

NATIONAL  SECURITY   70 

Geopolitical  Situation    70 

The  Military    72 

Internal  Security   76 

Crime   77 

Prisons   77 

Chapter  2.  Azerbaijan    79 

James  Nichol 

COUNTRY  PROFILE   81 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND    87 

Early  History   87 

Within  the  Russian  Empire   89 

Within  the  Soviet  Union    91 

After  Communist  Rule   93 


viii 


PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT   99 

Topography  and  Drainage    99 

Climate   100 

Environmental  Problems   100 

POPULATION  AND  ETHNIC  COMPOSITION   101 

Population  Characteristics   101 

The  Role  of  Women    103 

Smaller  Ethnic  Minorities    103 

LANGUAGE,  RELIGION,  AND  CULTURE   104 

Language   104 

Religion    106 

The  Arts   107 

The  Cultural  Renaissance    109 

EDUCATION,  HEALTH,  AND  WELFARE   Ill 

Education    Ill 

Health   113 

Social  Welfare   114 

THE  ECONOMY   115 

The  Work  Force   116 

Economic  Dislocations   116 

Agriculture    117 

Industry    119 

Energy    119 

Economic  Reform    122 

Foreign  Trade   125 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications   126 

GOVERNMENT  AND  POLITICS   1 29 

The  Appearance  of  Opposition  Parties    129 

Legislative  Politics    131 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1992    131 

The  Coup  of  June  1993    132 

Aliyev  and  the  Presidential  Election  of 

October  1993    134 

The  Constitution    135 

The  Court  System    136 

Human  Rights  and  the  Media   136 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   138 

The  Foreign  Policy  Establishment   138 

Post-Soviet  Diplomacy   139 

Relations  with  Former  Soviet  Republics   140 

ix 


NATIONAL  SECURITY   141 

Forming  a  National  Defense  Force   141 

Russian  Troop  Withdrawal   142 

Force  Levels  and  Performance    143 

Supply  and  Budgeting   144 

Aliyev's  National  Security  Reform   145 

Crime  and  Crime  Prevention   146 

Chapter  3.  Georgia   149 

Darrell  Slider 

COUNTRY  PROFILE   151 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND    157 

Early  History   157 

Within  the  Russian  Empire   159 

Within  the  Soviet  Union    162 

After  Communist  Rule   166 

Threats  of  Fragmentation   171 

PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT    175 

Topography    175 

Climate    176 

Environmental  Issues   177 

POPULATION  AND  ETHNIC  COMPOSITION   1 77 

Population  Characteristics    177 

Ethnic  Minorities    178 

LANGUAGE,  RELIGION,  AND  CULTURE   181 

Language    181 

Religion   182 

The  Arts   183 

EDUCATION,  HEALTH,  AND  WELFARE    186 

Education   186 

Health   187 

Social  Security    189 

THE  ECONOMY   190 

Conditions  in  the  Soviet  System    190 

Obstacles  to  Development    191 

The  Underground  Economy   192 

Wages  and  Prices   192 

Banking,  the  Budget,  and  the  Currency    194 

Industry   195 

Energy  Resources    196 

Agriculture   198 


x 


Transportation  and  Telecommunications   199 

Economic  Reform    203 

Foreign  Trade   205 

GOVERNMENT  AND  POLITICS   206 

Establishing  Democratic  Institutions   206 

The  1990  Election    208 

The  Gamsakhurdia  Government   208 

Gamsakhurdia's  Ouster  and  Its  Aftermath   209 

New  Parties  and  Shevardnadze's  Return    210 

The  Election  of  1992    210 

Formation  of  the  Shevardnadze  Government   213 

The  Judicial  System   216 

The  Constitution    218 

Human  Rights   218 

The  Media   219 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   219 

The  Soviet  and  Gamsakhurdia  Periods   220 

The  Foreign  Policy  Establishment   221 

Revived  Contacts  in  1992    221 

Relations  with  Neighboring  Countries   222 

NATIONAL  SECURITY   226 

The  Military  Establishment   226 

The  Russian  Presence   227 

Draft  Policy    227 

Arms  Supply    228 

Internal  Security   228 

Civilian  National  Security  Organization   229 

Crime    229 

Long-Term  Security   230 

Appendix.  Tables    231 

Bibliography   257 

Glossary    269 

Index   273 

Contributors   295 

List  of  Figures 

1  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Geographic 

Setting,  1994   xxii 

xi 


2  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Topography  and 


Drainage   xxii 

3  Nagorno-Karabakh,  1994    xxvi 

4  Armenia,  1994   8 

5  The  Empire  of  Tigran  the  Great,  ca.  65  B.C   12 

6  Ethnic  Groups  in  Armenia   32 

7  Transportation  System  of  Armenia,  1994    54 

8  Azerbaijan,  1994    86 

9  Ethnic  Groups  in  Azerbaijan    104 

10  Transportation  System  of  Azerbaijan,  1994    128 

11  Georgia,  1994    156 

12  The  Georgian  Empire  of  Queen  Tamar,  ca.  1200   160 

13  Georgia  in  the  Sixteenth  Century   161 

14  Ethnic  Groups  in  Georgia   180 

15  Transportation  System  of  Georgia,  1994    202 


xii 


Preface 


At  the  end  of  1991,  the  formal  liquidation  of  the  Soviet 
Union  was  the  surprisingly  swift  result  of  partially  hidden 
decrepitude  and  centrifugal  forces  within  that  empire.  Of  the 
fifteen  "new"  states  that  emerged  from  the  process,  many  had 
been  independent  political  entities  at  some  time  in  the  past. 
Aside  from  their  coverage  in  the  1991  Soviet  Union:  A  Country 
Study,  none  had  received  individual  treatment  in  this  series, 
however.  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies  is  the 
first  in  a  new  subseries  describing  the  fifteen  post-Soviet  repub- 
lics, both  as  they  existed  before  and  during  the  Soviet  era  and 
as  they  have  developed  since  1991.  This  volume  covers  Arme- 
nia, Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia,  the  three  small  nations  grouped 
around  the  Caucasus  mountain  range  east  of  the  Black  Sea. 

The  marked  relaxation  of  information  restrictions,  which 
began  in  the  late  1980s  and  accelerated  after  1991,  allows  the 
reporting  of  nearly  complete  data  on  every  aspect  of  life  in  the 
three  countries.  Scholarly  articles  and  periodical  reports  have 
been  especially  helpful  in  accounting  for  the  years  of  indepen- 
dence in  the  1990s.  The  authors  have  described  the  historical, 
political,  and  social  backgrounds  of  the  countries  as  the  back- 
ground for  their  current  portraits.  In  each  case,  the  authors' 
goal  was  to  provide  a  compact,  accessible,  and  objective  treat- 
ment of  five  main  topics:  historical  background,  the  society  and 
its  environment,  the  economy,  government  and  politics,  and 
national  security. 

In  all  cases,  personal  names  have  been  transliterated  from 
the  vernacular  languages  according  to  standard  practice.  Place- 
names  are  rendered  in  the  form  approved  by  the  United  States 
Board  on  Geographic  Names,  when  available.  Because  in  many 
cases  the  board  had  not  yet  applied  vernacular  tables  in  trans- 
literating official  place-names  at  the  time  of  printing,  the  most 
recent  Soviet-era  forms  have  been  used  in  this  volume.  Conven- 
tional international  variants,  such  as  Moscow,  are  used  when 
appropriate.  Organizations  commonly  known  by  their  acro- 
nyms (such  as  IMF— International  Monetary  Fund)  are  intro- 
duced by  their  full  names.  Autonomous  republics  and 
autonomous  regions,  such  as  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous 
Republic,  the  South  Ossetian  Autonomous  Region,  and  the 
Abkhazian  Autonomous  Republic,  are  introduced  in  their  full 


xiii 


form  (before  1991  these  also  included  the  phrase  "Soviet 
Socialist"),  and  subsequently  referred  to  by  shorter  forms 
(Nakhichevan,  South  Ossetia,  and  Abkhazia,  respectively) . 

Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion 
table  is  provided  in  the  Appendix.  A  chronology  is  provided  at 
the  beginning  of  the  book,  combining  significant  historical 
events  of  the  three  countries.  To  amplify  points  in  the  text  of 
the  chapters,  tables  in  the  Appendix  provide  statistics  on 
aspects  of  the  societies  and  the  economies  of  the  countries. 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of 
March  1994.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have 
been  updated.  The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events 
and  trends  that  have  occurred  since  the  completion  of 
research;  the  Country  Profiles  include  updated  information  as 
available;  and  the  Bibliography  lists  recently  published  sources 
thought  to  be  particularly  helpful  to  the  reader. 


xiv 


Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period 


Description 


EARLY  HISTORY 
95-55  B.C 


Armenian  Empire  reaches  greatest  size  and  influence  under  Tigran 
the  Great. 


66  B.C. 


Romans  complete  conquest  of  Caucasus  Mountains  region,  includ- 
ing Georgian  kingdom  of  Kartli-Iberia. 


30  B.C.  Romans  conquer  Armenian  Empire. 

AD.  100-300  Romans  annex  Azerbaijan  and  name  it  Albania. 

ca.  310  Tiridates  III  accepts  Christianity  for  the  Armenian  people. 

330  Ring  Marian  III  of  Kartli-Iberia  accepts  Christianity  for  the  Geor- 

gian people. 


FIFTH-SEVENTH 
CENTURIES 


First  golden  age  of  Armenian  culture. 


ca.  600 


Four  centuries  of  Arab  control  of  Azerbaijan  begin,  introducing 
Islam  in  seventh  century. 


645 
653 


Arabs  capture  Tbilisi. 

Byzantine  Empire  cedes  Armenia  to  Arabs. 


NINTH-TENTH 
CENTURIES 


806 
813 


Arabs  install  Bagratid  family  to  govern  Armenia. 

Armenian  prince  Ashot  I  begins  1,000  years  of  rule  in  Georgia  by 
Bagratid  Dynasty. 


862-977 


Second  golden  age  of  Armenian  culture,  under  Ashot  I  and  Ashot 
III. 


ELEVENTH-  Byzantine  Greeks  invade  Armenia  from  west,  Seljuk  Turks  from 

FOURTEENTH  east;  Turkish  groups  wrest  political  control  of  Azerbaijan  from 

CENTURIES  Arabs,  introducing  Turkish  language  and  culture. 


1099-1125 


David  IV  the  Builder  establishes  expanded  Georgian  Empire  and 
begins  golden  age  of  Georgia. 


Period 


Description 


1000-late  1200s 
1100s-1300s 

1200-1400 

1375 

1386 

FIFTEENTH  CEN- 
TURY 

SIXTEENTH  CEN- 
TURY 

1501 

1553 

EIGHTEENTH 
CENTURY 

ca.  1700 

1762 

NINETEENTH 
CENTURY 

1801 
1811 
1813 
1828 

1872 


Golden  age  of  Azerbaijani  literature  and  architecture. 

Cilician  Armenian  and  Georgian  armies  aid  European  armies  in 
Crusades  to  limit  Muslim  control  of  Holy  Land. 

Mongols  twice  invade  Azerbaijan,  establishing  temporary  dynasties. 

Cilician  Armenia  conquered  by  Mamluk  Turks. 

Timur  (Tamerlane)  sacks  Tbilisi,  ending  Georgian  Empire 

Most  of  modern  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia  become  part  of 
Ottoman  Empire. 

Azerbaijani  Safavid  Dynasty  begins  rule  by  Persian  Empire. 
Ottoman  Turks  and  Persians  divide  Georgia  between  them. 


Russia  begins  moving  into  northern  Azerbaijan  as  Persian  Empire 
weakens. 

Herekle  II  reunites  eastern  Georgian  regions  in  kingdom  of  Kartli- 
Kakhetia. 


After  Herekle  IPs  appeal  for  aid,  Russian  Empire  abolishes  Bagratid 
Dynasty  and  begins  annexation  of  Georgia. 


Georgian  Orthodox  Church  loses  autocephalous  status  in  Russifica- 
tion  process. 


Treaty  of  Gulistan  officially  divides  Azerbaijan  into  Russian  (north- 
ern) and  Persian  (southern)  spheres. 


Treaty  of  Turkmanchay  awards  Nakhichevan  and  area  around  Ere- 
van to  Russia,  strengthening  Russian  control  of  Transcaucasus 
and  beginning  period  of  modernization  and  security. 


Oil  industry  established  around  Baku,  beginning  rapid  expansion. 


Period 


Description 


1878 

1891 

1895 

TWENTIETH 
CENTURY 

ca.  1900 

1908 

1915 

1917 

1918 

1920 

1921 
1922 

1936 

1936-37 

1943 
1946 

1959 


"Armenian  question"  emerges  at  Congress  of  Berlin;  disposition  of 
Armenia  becomes  ongoing  European  issue. 

First  Armenian  revolutionary  party  formed. 

Massacre  of  300,000  Armenian  subjects  by  Ottoman  Turks. 


Radical  political  organizations  begin  to  form  in  Azerbaijan. 

Young  Turks  take  over  government  of  Ottoman  Empire  with  reform 
agenda,  supported  by  Armenian  population. 

Young  Turks  massacre  600,000  to  2  million  Armenians;  most  survi- 
vors leave  eastern  Anatolia. 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia  form  independent  Transcauca- 
sian  federation.  Tsar  Nicholas  II  abdicates  Russian  throne;  Bol- 
sheviks take  power  in  Russia. 

Independent  Armenian,  Azerbaijani,  and  Georgian  states  emerge 
from  defeat  of  Ottoman  Empire  in  World  War  I. 

Red  Army  invades  Azerbaijan  and  forces  Armenia  to  accept  commu- 
nist-dominated government. 

Red  Army  invades  Georgia  and  drives  out  Zhordania  government. 

Transcaucasian  Soviet  Federated  Socialist  Republic  combines  Arme- 
nia, Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia  as  single  republic  within  Soviet 
Union. 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia  become  separate  republics 
within  Soviet  Union. 

Purges  under  political  commissar  Lavrenti  Beria  reach  their  peak  in 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia. 

Autonomy  restored  to  Georgian  Orthodox  Church. 

Western  powers  force  Soviet  Union  to  abandon  Autonomous  Gov- 
ernment of  Azerbaijan,  formed  in  1945  after  Soviet  occupation  of 
northern  Iran. 

Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  purges  Azerbaijani  Communist  Party. 


Period 


Description 


1969 
ca.  1970 


Heydar  Aliyev  named  head  of  Azerbaijani  Communist  Party. 

Zviad  Gamsakhurdia  begins  organizing  dissident  Georgian  national- 


1972 


Eduard  Shevardnadze  named  first  secretary  of  Georgian  Commu- 
nist Party. 


1974 


Moscow  installs  regime  of  Karen  Demirchian  in  Armenia  to  end 
party  corruption;  regime  later  removed  for  corruption. 


1978 


Mass  demonstrations  prevent  Moscow  from  making  Russian  an  offi- 
cial language  of  Georgia. 


1982 


Aliyev  of  Azerbaijan  named  full  member  of  Politburo  of  Communist 
Party  of  the  Soviet  Union. 


1985 


Shevardnadze  named  minister  of  foreign  affairs  of  Soviet  Union 
and  leaves  post  as  first  secretary  of  Georgian  Communist  Party. 


Late  1980s 


Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  initiates  policies  of  glasnost  and  perestroiha 
throughout  Soviet  Union. 


1988 


Armenian  nationalist  movement  revived  by  Karabakh  and  corrup- 
tion concerns. 


February 


Nagorno-Karabakh  government  votes  to  unify  that  autonomoi 
region  of  Azerbaijan  with  Armenia. 


December 


Disastrous  earthquake  in  northern  Armenia  heavily  damages  Leni- 
nakan  (nowGyumri). 


1989  April 


Soviet  troops  kill  Georgian  civilian  demonstrators  in  Tbilisi,  radical- 
izing Georgian  public  opinion. 


Spring 


Mass  demonstrations  in  Armenia  achieve  release  of  Karabakh  Com- 
mittee arrested  by  Soviets  to  quell  nationalist  movement. 


September 


Azerbaijan  begins  blockade  of  Armenian  fuel  and  supply  lines  over 
Karabakh  issue. 


Fall 


Azerbaijani  opposition  parties  lead  mass  protests  against  Soviet  rule; 
national  sovereignty  officially  proclaimed. 


November 


Nagorno-Karabakh  National  Council  declares  unification  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh  with  Armenia. 


1990  January 


Moscow  sends  troops  to  Azerbaijan,  nominally  to  stem  violence 


Period 


Description 


against  Armenians  over  Karabakh 


Spring 


Levon  Ter-Petrosian  of  Armenian  Pannational  Movement  chosen 
chairman  of  Armenian  Supreme  Soviet. 


October  In  first  multiparty  election  held  in  Georgia,  Gamsakhurdia's  opposi- 

tionist party  crushes  communists;  Gamsakhurdia  named  presi- 
dent. 


1991  January  Georgian  forces  invade  South  Ossetia  in  response  to  independence 

movement  there;  fighting  continues  all  year;  Soviet  troops  invade 
Azerbaijan,  ostensibly  to  halt  anti-Armenian  pogroms. 


April 
May 


After  referendum  approval,  Georgian  parliament  declares  Georgia 
independent  of  Soviet  Union. 

Gamsakhurdia  becomes  first  president  of  Georgia,  elected  directly 
in  multiparty  election. 


August  Attempted  coup  against  Gorbachev  in  Moscow  fails. 

September  Armenian  voters  approve  national  independence. 


October 


Azerbaijani  referendum  declares  Azerbaijan  independent  of  Soviet 
Union;  Ter-Petrosian  elected  president  of  Armenia. 


December 


Armenians  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  declare  independent  state  as 
fighting  there  continues;  Soviet  Union  officially  dissolved. 


1992  January 


March 


Gamsakhurdia  driven  from  Georgia  into  exile  by  opposition  forces. 
Shevardnadze  returns  to  Tbilisi  and  forms  new  government. 


Spring 


Armenian  forces  occupy  Lachin  corridor  linking  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh to  Armenia. 


June 


Abulfaz  Elchibey  elected  president  of  Azerbaijan  and  forms  first 
postcommunist  government  there. 


July  Cease-fire  mediated  by  Russia's  President  Yeltsin  in  SouthOssetia. 

October  Parliamentary  election  held  in  Georgia;  Shevardnazde  receives 

overwhelming  support. 


Fall 


Fighting  begins  between  Abkhazian  independence  forces  and  Geor- 
gian forces;  large-scale  refugee  displacement  continues  through 
next  two  years. 


Period 


Description 


1993  June 
Fall 


October 


Military  coup  deposes  Elchibey  in  Azerbaijan;  Aliyev  returns  to 
power. 

Multilateral  negotiations  seek  settlement  of  Karabakh  conflict,  with- 
out result;  fighting,  blockade,  and  international  negotiation  con- 
tinue into  1994. 


Shevardnadze  responds  to  deterioration  of  Georgian  military  posi- 
tion by  having  Georgia  join  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States,  thus  gaining  Russian  military  support;  Aliyev  elected  presi- 
dent of  Azerbaijan. 


XX 


Introduction 


THE  THREE  REPUBLICS  of  Transcaucasia— Armenia,  Azer- 
baijan, and  Georgia — were  included  in  the  Soviet  Union  in  the 
early  1920s  after  their  inhabitants  had  passed  through  long  and 
varied  periods  as  separate  nations  and  as  parts  of  neighboring 
empires,  most  recently  the  Russian  Empire.  By  the  time  the 
Soviet  Union  dissolved  at  the  end  of  1991,  the  three  republics 
had  regained  their  independence,  but  their  economic  weak- 
ness and  the  turmoil  surrounding  them  jeopardized  that  inde- 
pendence almost  immediately.  By  1994  Russia  had  regained 
substantial  influence  in  the  region  by  arbitrating  disputes  and 
by  judiciously  inserting  peacekeeping  troops.  Geographically 
isolated,  the  three  nations  gained  some  Western  economic  sup- 
port in  the  early  1990s,  but  in  1994  the  leaders  of  all  three 
asserted  that  national  survival  depended  chiefly  on  diverting 
resources  from  military  applications  to  restructuring  economic 
and  social  institutions. 

Location  at  the  meeting  point  of  southeastern  Europe  with 
the  western  border  of  Asia  greatly  influenced  the  histories  of 
the  three  national  groups  forming  the  present-day  Transcauca- 
sian  republics  (see  fig.  1;  fig.  2).  Especially  between  the  twelfth 
and  the  twentieth  centuries,  their  peoples  were  subject  to  inva- 
sion and  control  by  the  Ottoman,  Persian,  and  Russian 
empires.  But,  with  the  formation  of  the  twentieth-century 
states  named  for  them,  the  Armenian,  Azerbaijani,  and  Geor- 
gian peoples  as  a  whole  underwent  different  degrees  of  dis- 
placement and  played  quite  different  roles.  For  example,  the 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan  that  emerged  from  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1991  contains  only  5.8  million  of  the  world's  estimated  19  mil- 
lion Azerbaijanis,  with  most  of  the  balance  living  in  Iran,  across 
a  southern  border  fixed  by  Persia  and  Russia  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  At  the  same  time,  slightly  more  than  half  the  world's 
6.3  million  Armenians  are  widely  scattered  outside  the  borders 
of  the  Republic  of  Armenia  as  a  result  of  a  centuries-long 
diaspora  and  step-by-step  reduction  of  their  national  territory. 
In  contrast,  the  great  majority  of  the  world's  Georgian  popula- 
tion lives  in  the  Republic  of  Georgia  (together  with  ethnic 
minorities  constituting  about  30  percent  of  the  republic's  pop- 
ulation), after  having  experienced  centuries  of  foreign  domi- 
nation but  little  forcible  alteration  of  national  boundaries. 


xxiii 


xxii 


The  starting  points  and  the  outside  influences  that  formed 
the  three  cultures  also  were  quite  different.  In  pre-Christian 
times,  Georgia's  location  along  the  Black  Sea  opened  it  to  cul- 
tural influence  from  Greece.  During  the  same  period,  Armenia 
was  settled  by  tribes  from  southeastern  Europe,  and  Azerbaijan 
was  settled  by  Asiatic  Medes,  Persians,  and  Scythians.  In  Azer- 
baijan, Persian  cultural  influence  dominated  in  the  formative 
period  of  the  first  millennium  B.C.  In  the  early  fourth  century, 
kings  of  Armenia  and  Georgia  accepted  Christianity  after 
extensive  contact  with  the  proselytizing  early  Christians  at  the 
eastern  end  of  the  Mediterranean.  Following  their  conversion, 
Georgians  remained  tied  by  religion  to  the  Roman  Empire  and 
later  the  Byzantine  Empire  centered  at  Constantinople. 
Although  Armenian  Christianity  broke  with  Byzantine  Ortho- 
doxy very  early,  Byzantine  occupation  of  Armenian  territory 
enhanced  the  influence  of  Greek  culture  on  Armenians  in  the 
Middle  Ages. 

In  Azerbaijan,  the  Zoroastrian  religion,  a  legacy  of  the  early 
Persian  influence  there,  was  supplanted  in  the  seventh  century 
by  the  Muslim  faith  introduced  by  conquering  Arabs.  Conquest 
and  occupation  by  the  Turks  added  centuries  of  Turkic  influ- 
ence, which  remains  a  primary  element  of  secular  Azerbaijani 
culture,  notably  in  language  and  the  arts.  In  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury, Islam  remains  the  prevalent  religion  of  Azerbaijan,  with 
about  three-quarters  of  the  population  adhering  to  the  Shia 
(see  Glossary)  branch. 

Golden  ages  of  peace  and  independence  enabled  the  three 
civilizations  to  individualize  their  forms  of  art  and  literature 
before  1300,  and  all  have  retained  unique  characteristics  that 
arose  during  those  eras.  The  Armenian,  Azerbaijani,  and  Geor- 
gian languages  also  grew  in  different  directions:  Armenian 
developed  from  a  combination  of  Indo-European  and  non- 
Indo-European  language  stock,  with  an  alphabet  based  on  the 
Greek;  Azerbaijani,  akin  to  Turkish  and  originating  in  Central 
Asia,  now  uses  the  Roman  alphabet  after  periods  of  official 
usage  of  the  Arabic  and  Cyrillic  alphabets;  and  Georgian,  unre- 
lated to  any  major  world  language,  uses  a  Greek-based  alphabet 
quite  different  from  the  Armenian. 

Beginning  in  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Russian  Empire 
constantly  probed  the  Caucasus  region  for  possible  expansion 
toward  the  Black  Sea  and  the  Caspian  Sea.  These  efforts 
engaged  Russia  in  a  series  of  wars  with  the  Persian  and  Otto- 
man empires,  both  of  which  by  that  time  were  decaying  from 


xxiv 


within.  By  1828  Russia  had  annexed  or  had  been  awarded  by 
treaty  all  of  present-day  Azerbaijan  and  Georgia  and  most  of 
present-day  Armenia.  (At  that  time,  much  of  the  Armenian 
population  remained  across  the  border  in  the  Ottoman 
Empire.) 

Except  for  about  two  years  of  unstable  independence  follow- 
ing World  War  I,  the  Transcaucasus  countries  remained  under 
Russian,  and  later  Soviet,  control  until  1991.  As  part  of  the 
Soviet  Union  from  1922  to  1991,  they  underwent  approxi- 
mately the  same  degree  of  economic  and  political  regimenta- 
tion as  the  other  constituent  republics  of  the  union  (until  1936 
the  Transcaucasian  Soviet  Federated  Socialist  Republic 
included  all  three  countries).  The  Sovietization  process 
included  intensive  industrialization,  collectivization  of  agricul- 
ture, and  large-scale  shifts  of  the  rural  work  force  to  industrial 
centers,  as  well  as  expanded  and  standardized  systems  for  edu- 
cation, health  care,  and  social  welfare.  Although  industries 
came  under  uniform  state  direction,  private  farms  in  the  three 
republics,  especially  in  Georgia,  remained  important  agricul- 
turally because  of  the  inefficiency  of  collective  farms. 

The  achievement  of  independence  in  1991  left  the  three 
republics  with  inefficient  and  often  crumbling  remains  of  the 
Soviet-era  state  systems.  In  the  years  that  followed,  political, 
military,  and  financial  chaos  prevented  reforms  from  being 
implemented  in  most  areas.  Land  redistribution  proceeded 
rapidly  in  Armenia  and  Georgia,  although  agricultural  inputs 
often  remained  under  state  control.  In  contrast,  in  1994  Azer- 
baijan still  depended  mainly  on  collective  farms.  Education 
and  health  institutions  remained  substantially  the  same  central- 
ized suppliers  as  they  had  in  the  Soviet  era,  but  availability  of 
educational  and  medical  materials  and  personnel  dropped 
sharply  after  1991.  The  military  conflict  in  Azerbaijan's 
Nagorno-Karabakh  Autonomous  Region  put  enormous  stress 
on  the  health  and  social  welfare  systems  of  combatants  Arme- 
nia and  Azerbaijan,  and  Azerbaijan's  blockade  of  Armenia, 
which  began  in  1989,  caused  acute  shortages  of  all  types  of 
materials  (see  fig.  3). 

The  relationship  of  Russia  to  the  former  Soviet  republics  in 
the  Transcaucasus  caused  increasing  international  concern  in 
the  transition  years.  The  presence  of  Russian  peacekeeping 
troops  between  Georgian  and  Abkhazian  separatist  forces 
remained  an  irritant  to  Georgian  nationalists  and  an  indica- 
tion that  Russia  intended  to  intervene  in  that  part  of  the  world 


xxv 


Stepanakert* 


Shusha 


i 


International  boundary 
Region  capital 
Populated  place 
Railroad 
Road 


NOTE  -  Status  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 
under  negotiation  in  1994. 


10  Kilometers 


/ 

r 

RAN 


Figure  3.  Nagorno-Karabakh,  1994 


when  opportunities  arose.  Russian  nationalists  saw  such  inter- 
vention as  an  opportunity  to  recapture  nearby  parts  of  the  old 
Soviet  empire.  In  the  fall  of  1994,  in  spite  of  strong  nationalist 
resistance  in  each  of  the  Transcaucasus  countries,  Russia  was 
poised  to  improve  its  economic  and  military  influence  in 
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  as  it  had  in  Georgia,  if  its  mediation 
activities  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  bore  fruit. 


xxvi 


The  countries  of  Transcaucasia  each  inherited  large  state- 
owned  enterprises  specializing  in  products  assigned  by  the 
Soviet  system:  military  electronics  and  chemicals  in  Armenia, 
petroleum-based  and  textile  industries  in  Azerbaijan,  and 
chemicals,  machine  tools,  and  metallurgy  in  Georgia.  As  in 
most  of  the  nations  in  the  former  Soviet  sphere,  redistribution 
and  revitalization  of  such  enterprises  proved  a  formidable 
obstacle  to  economic  growth  and  foreign  investment  in  Arme- 
nia, Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia.  Efforts  at  enterprise  privatization 
were  hindered  by  the  stresses  of  prolonged  military  engage- 
ments, the  staying  power  of  underground  economies  that  had 
defied  control  under  communist  and  postcommunist  govern- 
ments, the  lack  of  commercial  expertise,  and  the  lack  of  a  legal 
infrastructure  on  which  to  base  new  business  relationships.  As  a 
result,  in  1994  the  governments  were  left  with  oversized,  ineffi- 
cient, and  often  bankrupt  heavy  industries  whose  operation 
was  vital  to  provide  jobs  and  to  revive  the  national  economies. 
At  the  same  time,  small  private  enterprises  were  growing  rap- 
idly, especially  in  Armenia  and  Georgia. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  Caucasus  took  its  place  among  the 
regions  of  the  world  having  violent  post-Cold  War  ethnic  con- 
flict. Several  wars  broke  out  in  the  region  once  Soviet  authority 
ceased  holding  the  lid  on  disagreements  that  had  been  fer- 
menting for  decades.  (Joseph  V.  Stalin's  forcible  relocation  of 
ethnic  groups  after  redrawing  the  region's  political  map  was  a 
chief  source  of  the  friction  of  the  1990s.)  Thus,  the  three 
republics  devoted  critical  resources  to  military  campaigns  in  a 
period  when  the  need  for  internal  restructuring  was  para- 
mount. 

In  Georgia,  minority  separatist  movements — primarily  on 
the  part  of  the  Ossetians  and  the  Abkhaz,  both  given  intermit- 
tent encouragement  by  the  Soviet  regime  over  the  years — 
demanded  fuller  recognition  in  the  new  order  of  the  early 
1990s.  Asserting  its  newly  gained  national  prerogatives,  Georgia 
responded  with  military  attempts  to  restrain  separatism  forc- 
ibly. A  year-long  battle  in  South  Ossetia,  initiated  by  Zviad  Gam- 
sakhurdia,  post-Soviet  Georgia's  ultranationalist  first  president, 
reached  an  uneasy  peace  in  mid-1992.  Early  in  1992,  however, 
the  violent  eviction  of  Gamsakhurdia  from  the  presidency 
added  another  opponent  of  Georgian  unity  as  the  exiled  Gam- 
sakhurdia gathered  his  forces  across  the  border. 

In  mid-1992  Georgian  paramilitary  troops  entered  the  Ab- 
khazian Autonomous  Republic  of  Georgia,  beginning  a  new 


xxvii 


conflict  that  in  1993  threatened  to  break  apart  the  country. 
When  Georgian  troops  were  driven  from  Abkhazia  in  Septem- 
ber 1993,  Georgia's  President  Eduard  Shevardnadze  was  able  to 
gain  Russian  military  aid  to  prevent  the  collapse  of  the  country. 
In  mid-1994  an  uneasy  cease-fire  was  in  force;  Abkhazian  forces 
controlled  their  entire  region,  but  no  negotiated  settlement 
had  been  reached.  Life  in  Georgia  had  stabilized,  but  no  per- 
manent answers  had  been  found  to  ethnic  claims  and  counter- 
claims. 

For  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  the  center  of  nationalist  self- 
expression  in  this  period  was  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  Autono- 
mous Region  of  Azerbaijan.  After  the  Armenian  majority  there 
declared  unification  with  Armenia  in  1988,  ethnic  conflict 
broke  out  in  both  republics,  leaving  many  Armenians  and  Azer- 
baijanis  dead.  For  the  next  six  years,  battles  raged  between 
Armenian  and  Azerbaijani  regular  forces  and  between  Arme- 
nian militias  from  Nagorno-Karabakh  ("mountainous  Kara- 
bakh"  in  Russian)  and  foreign  mercenaries,  killing  thousands 
in  and  around  Karabakh  and  causing  massive  refugee  move- 
ments in  both  directions.  Armenian  military  forces,  better  sup- 
plied and  better  organized,  generally  gained  ground  in  the 
conflict,  but  the  sides  were  evened  as  Armenia  itself  was  devas- 
tated by  six  years  of  Azerbaijani  blockades.  In  1993  and  early 
1994,  international  mediation  efforts  were  stymied  by  the 
intransigence  of  the  two  sides  and  by  competition  between  Rus- 
sia and  the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(CSCE — see  Glossary)  for  the  role  of  chief  peace  negotiator. 

Armenia 

Armenia,  in  the  twentieth  century  the  smallest  of  the  three 
republics  in  size  and  population,  has  undergone  the  greatest 
change  in  the  location  of  its  indigenous  population.  After 
occupying  eastern  Anatolia  (now  eastern  Turkey)  for  nearly 
2,000  years,  the  Armenian  population  of  the  Ottoman  Empire 
was  extinguished  or  driven  out  by  1915,  adding  to  a  diaspora 
that  had  begun  centuries  earlier.  After  1915  only  the  eastern 
population,  in  and  around  Erevan,  remained  in  its  original 
location.  In  the  Soviet  era,  Armenians  preserved  their  cultural 
traditions,  both  in  Armenia  and  abroad.  The  Armenian  peo- 
ple's strong  sense  of  unity  has  been  reinforced  by  periodic 
threats  to  their  existence.  When  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and 
Georgia  gained  their  independence  in  1991,  Armenia  pos- 


xxviii 


sessed  the  fewest  natural  and  man-made  resources  upon  which 
to  build  a  new  state.  Fertile  agricultural  areas  are  relatively 
small,  transportation  is  limited  by  the  country's  landlocked 
position  and  mountainous  terrain  (and,  beginning  in  1989,  by 
the  Azerbaijani  blockade),  and  the  material  base  for  industry  is 
not  broad.  A  high  percentage  of  cropland  requires  irrigation, 
and  disorganized  land  privatization  has  delayed  the  benefits 
that  should  result  from  reducing  state  agricultural  control. 
Although  harvests  were  bountiful  in  1993,  gaps  in  support  sys- 
tems for  transport  and  food  processing  prevented  urban  popu- 
lations from  benefiting. 

The  intensive  industrialization  of  Armenia  between  the 
world  wars  was  accomplished  within  the  controlled  barter  sys- 
tem of  the  Soviet  republics,  not  within  a  separate  economic 
unit.  The  specialized  industrial  roles  assigned  Armenia  in  the 
Soviet  system  offered  little  of  value  to  the  world  markets  from 
which  the  republic  had  been  protected  until  1991.  Since  1991 
Armenia  has  sought  to  reorient  its  Soviet-era  scientific- 
research,  military  electronics,  and  chemicals  infrastructures  to 
satisfy  new  demands,  and  international  financial  assistance  has 
been  forthcoming.  In  the  meantime,  basic  items  of  Armenian 
manufacture,  such  as  textiles,  shoes,  and  carpets,  have 
remained  exportable.  However,  the  extreme  paucity  of  energy 
sources — little  coal,  natural  gas,  or  petroleum  is  extracted  in 
Armenia — always  has  been  a  severe  limitation  to  industry.  And 
about  30  percent  of  the  existing  industrial  infrastructure  was 
lost  in  the  earthquake  of  1988.  Desperate  crises  arose  through- 
out society  when  Azerbaijan  strangled  energy  imports  that  had 
provided  over  90  percent  of  Armenia's  energy.  Every  winter  of 
the  early  1990s  brought  more  difficult  conditions,  especially 
for  urban  Armenians. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  Armenian  economy  was  also  stressed 
by  direct  support  of  Karabakh  self-determination.  Karabakh 
received  massive  shipments  of  food  and  other  materials 
through  the  Lachin  corridor  that  Karabakh  Armenian  forces 
had  opened  across  southwestern  Azerbaijan.  Although  Kara- 
bakh sent  electricity  to  Armenia  in  return,  the  balance  of  trade 
was  over  two  to  one  in  favor  of  Karabakh,  and  Armenian  credits 
covered  most  of  Karabakh's  budget  deficits.  Meanwhile,  Arme- 
nia remained  a  command  rather  than  a  free-market  economy 
to  ensure  that  the  military  received  adequate  economic  sup- 
port. 


xxix 


In  addition  to  the  Karabakh  conflict,  wage,  price,  and  social 
welfare  conditions  have  caused  substantial  social  unrest  since 
independence.  The  dram  (for  value  of  the  dram — see  Glos- 
sary), the  national  currency  introduced  in  1992,  underwent 
almost  immediate  devaluation  as  the  national  banking  system 
tried  to  stabilize  international  exchange  rates.  Accordingly,  in 
1993  prices  rose  to  an  average  of  130  percent  of  wages,  which 
the  government  indexed  through  that  year.  The  scarcity  of 
many  commodities,  caused  by  the  blockade,  also  pushed  prices 
higher.  In  the  first  post-Soviet  years,  and  especially  in  1993, 
plant  closings  and  the  energy  crisis  caused  unemployment  to 
more  than  double.  At  the  same  time,  the  standard  of  living  of 
the  average  Armenian  deteriorated;  by  1993  an  estimated  90 
percent  of  the  population  was  living  below  the  official  poverty 
line. 

Armenia's  first  steps  toward  democracy  were  uneven.  Upon 
declaring  independence,  Armenia  adapted  the  political  sys- 
tem, set  forth  in  its  Soviet-style  1978  constitution,  to  the  short- 
term  requirements  of  governance.  The  chief  executive  would 
be  the  chairman  of  Armenia's  Supreme  Soviet,  which  was  the 
chief  legislative  body  of  the  new  republic — but  in  independent 
Armenia  the  legislature  and  the  executive  branch  would  no 
longer  merely  rubber-stamp  policy  decisions  handed  down 
from  Moscow. 

The  inherited  Soviet  system  was  used  in  the  expectation  that 
a  new  constitution  would  prescribe  Western-style  institutions  in 
the  near  future.  However,  between  1992  and  1994  consensus 
was  not  reached  between  factions  backing  a  strong  executive 
and  those  backing  a  strong  legislature. 

At  the  center  of  the  dispute  over  the  constitution  was  Levon 
Ter-Petrosian,  president  (through  late  1994)  of  post-Soviet 
Armenia.  Beginning  in  1991,  Ter-Petrosian  responded  to  the 
twin  threats  of  political  chaos  and  military  defeat  at  the  hands 
of  Azerbaijan  by  accumulating  extraordinary  executive  powers. 
His  chief  opposition,  a  faction  that  was  radically  nationalist  but 
held  few  seats  in  the  fragmented  Supreme  Soviet,  sought  to 
build  coalitions  to  cut  the  president's  power,  then  to  finalize 
such  a  move  in  a  constitution  calling  for  a  strong  legislature.  As 
they  had  on  other  legislation,  however,  the  chaotic  delibera- 
tions of  parliament  yielded  no  decision.  Ter-Petrosian  was  able 
to  continue  his  pragmatic  approach  to  domestic  policy,  priva- 
tizing the  economy  whenever  possible,  and  to  continue  his 
moderate,  sometimes  conciliatory,  tone  on  the  Karabakh  issue. 


xxx 


Beginning  in  1991,  Armenia's  foreign  policy  also  was  dic- 
tated by  the  Karabakh  conflict.  After  independence,  Russian 
troops  continued  serving  as  border  guards  and  in  other  capaci- 
ties that  Armenia's  new  national  army  could  not  fill.  Armenia,  a 
charter  member  of  the  Russian-sponsored  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  (CIS — see  Glossary),  forged  security  agree- 
ments with  CIS  member  states  and  took  an  active  part  in  the 
organization.  After  1991  Russia  remained  Armenia's  foremost 
trading  partner,  supplying  the  country  with  fuel.  As  the  Kara- 
bakh conflict  evolved,  Armenia  took  a  more  favorable  position 
toward  Russian  leadership  of  peace  negotiations  than  did  Azer- 
baijan. 

The  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  made  possible  closer 
relations  with  Armenia's  traditional  enemy  Turkey,  whose 
membership  in  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO — see  Glossary)  had  put  it  on  the  opposite  side  in  the 
Cold  War.  In  the  Karabakh  conflict,  Turkey  sided  with  Islamic 
Azerbaijan,  blocking  pipeline  deliveries  to  Armenia  through  its 
territory.  Most  important,  Turkey  withheld  acknowledgment  of 
the  1915  massacre,  without  which  no  Armenian  government 
could  permit  a  rapprochement.  Nevertheless,  tentative  con- 
tacts continued  throughout  the  early  1990s. 

In  spite  of  pressure  from  nationalist  factions,  the  Ter-Petro- 
sian  government  held  that  Armenia  should  not  unilaterally 
annex  Karabakh  and  that  the  citizens  of  Karabakh  had  a  right 
to  self-determination  (presumably  meaning  either  indepen- 
dence or  union  with  Armenia).  Although  Ter-Petrosian  main- 
tained contact  with  Azerbaijan's  President  Heydar  Aliyev,  and 
Armenia  officially  accepted  the  terms  of  several  peace  propos- 
als, recriminations  for  the  failure  of  peace  talks  flew  from  both 
sides  in  1993. 

The  United  States  and  the  countries  of  the  European  Union 
(EU)  have  aided  independent  Armenia  in  several  ways, 
although  the  West  has  criticized  Armenian  incursions  into 
Azerbaijani  territory.  Humanitarian  aid,  most  of  it  from  the 
United  States,  played  a  large  role  between  1991  and  1994  in 
Armenia's  survival  through  the  winters  of  the  blockade.  Arme- 
nia successively  pursued  aid  from  the  European  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary). 
Two  categories  of  assistance,  humanitarian  and  technical,  were 
offered  through  those  lenders.  Included  was  aid  for  recovery 
from  the  1988  earthquake,  whose  destructive  effects  were  still 


xxxi 


being  felt  in  Armenia's  industry  and  transportation  infrastruc- 
ture as  of  late  1994. 

After  the  Soviet  Union  collapsed,  Armenia's  national  secu- 
rity continued  to  depend  heavily  on  the  Russian  military.  The 
officer  corps  of  the  new  national  army  created  in  1992 
included  many  Armenian  former  officers  of  the  Soviet  army, 
and  Russian  institutes  trained  new  Armenian  officers.  Two  Rus- 
sian divisions  were  transferred  to  Armenian  control,  but 
another  division  remained  under  full  Russian  control  on  Arme- 
nian soil. 

Internal  security  was  problematic  in  the  transitional  years. 
The  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  responsible  for  internal  secu- 
rity agencies,  remained  outside  regular  government  control,  as 
it  had  been  in  the  Soviet  period.  This  arrangement  led  to  cor- 
ruption, abuses  of  power,  and  public  cynicism,  a  state  of  affairs 
that  was  especially  serious  because  the  main  internal  security 
agency  acted  as  the  nation's  regular  police  force.  The  distrac- 
tion of  the  Karabakh  crisis  combined  with  security  lapses  to 
stimulate  a  rapid  rise  in  crime  in  the  early  1990s.  The  political 
situation  was  also  complicated  by  charges  of  abuse  of  power 
exchanged  by  high  government  officials  in  relation  to  security 
problems. 

By  the  spring  of  1994,  Armenians  had  survived  a  fourth  win- 
ter of  acute  shortages,  and  Armenian  forces  in  Karabakh  had 
survived  the  large-scale  winter  offensive  that  Azerbaijan 
launched  in  December  1993.  In  May  1994,  a  flurry  of  diplo- 
matic activity  by  Russia  and  the  CIS,  stimulated  by  the  new 
round  of  fighting,  produced  a  cease-fire  that  held,  with  some 
violations,  through  the  summer.  A  lasting  treaty  was  delayed, 
however,  by  persistent  disagreement  over  the  nationality  of 
peacekeeping  forces  that  would  occupy  Azerbaijan.  Azerbaijan 
resisted  the  return  of  Russian  troops  to  its  territory,  while  the 
Russian  plan  called  for  at  least  half  the  forces  to  be  Russian.  On 
both  diplomatic  and  economic  fronts,  new  signs  of  stability 
caused  guarded  optimism  in  Armenia  in  the  fall  of  1994. 

The  failure  of  the  CSCE  peace  plan,  which  Azerbaijan  sup- 
ported, had  caused  that  country  to  mount  an  all-out,  human- 
wave  offensive  in  December  1993  and  January  1994,  which  ini- 
tially pushed  back  Armenian  defensive  lines  in  Karabakh  and 
regained  some  lost  territory.  When  the  offensive  stalled  in  Feb- 
ruary, Russia's  minister  of  defense,  Pavel  Grachev,  negotiated  a 
cease-fire,  which  enabled  Russia  to  supplant  the  CSCE  as  the 
primary  peace  negotiator.  Intensive  Russian-sponsored  talks 


xxxii 


continued  through  the  spring,  although  Azerbaijan  mounted 
air  strikes  on  Karabakh  as  late  as  April.  In  May  1994,  Armenia, 
Azerbaijan,  and  Nagorno-Karabakh  signed  the  CIS-sponsored 
Bishkek  Protocol,  calling  for  a  cease-fire  and  the  beginning  of 
troop  withdrawals.  In  July  the  defense  ministers  of  the  three 
jurisdictions  officially  extended  the  cease-fire,  signaling  that  all 
parties  were  moving  toward  some  combination  of  the  Russian 
and  the  CSCE  peace  plans.  In  September  the  exchange  of 
Armenian  and  Azerbaijani  prisoners  of  war  began. 

Under  these  conditions,  Russia  was  able  to  intensify  its 
three-way  diplomatic  gambit  in  the  Transcaucasus,  steadily 
erasing  Armenians'  memory  of  airborne  Soviet  forces  landing 
unannounced  as  a  show  of  strength  in  1991.  In  the  first  half  of 
1994,  Armenia  moved  closer  to  Russia  on  several  fronts.  A  Feb- 
ruary treaty  established  bilateral  barter  of  vital  resources.  In 
March  Russia  agreed  to  joint  operation  of  the  Armenian 
Atomic  Power  Station  at  Metsamor,  whose  scheduled  1995 
reopening  is  a  vital  element  in  easing  the  country's  energy  cri- 
sis. Also  in  March,  Armenia  replaced  its  mission  in  Moscow 
with  a  full  embassy.  In  June  the  Armenian  parliament  approved 
the  addition  of  airborne  troops  to  the  Russian  garrison  at 
Gyumri  near  the  Turkish  border.  Then  in  July,  Russia  extended 
100  billion  rubles  (about  US$35  million  at  that  time)  for  reacti- 
vation of  the  Metsamor  station,  and  Armenia  signed  a  US$250 
million  contract  with  Russia  for  Armenia  to  process  precious 
metals  and  gems  supplied  by  Russia.  In  addition,  Armenia  con- 
sistently favored  the  Russian  peace  plan  for  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh, in  opposition  to  Azerbaijan's  insistence  on  reviving  the 
CSCE  plan  that  prescribed  international  monitors  rather  than 
combat  troops  (most  of  whom  would  be  Russian)  on  Azer- 
baijani soil. 

Armenia  was  active  on  other  diplomatic  fronts  as  well  in 
1994.  President  Ter-Petrosian  made  official  visits  to  Britain's 
Prime  Minister  John  Major  in  February  (preceding  Azer- 
baijan's Heydar  Aliyev  by  a  few  weeks  when  the  outcome  of  the 
last  large-scale  campaign  in  the  Karabakh  conflict  remained  in 
doubt)  and  to  President  William  J.  Clinton  in  the  United  States 
in  August.  Clinton  promised  more  active  United  States  support 
for  peace  negotiations,  and  an  exchange  of  military  attaches 
was  set.  While  in  Washington,  Ter-Petrosian  expressed  interest 
in  joining  the  NATO  Partnership  for  Peace,  in  which  Azer- 
baijan had  gained  membership  three  months  earlier. 


xxxiii 


Relations  with  Turkey  remained  cool,  however.  In  1994  Tur- 
key continued  its  blockade  of  Armenia  in  support  of  Azer- 
baijan and  accused  Armenia  of  fostering  rebel  activity  by 
Kurdish  groups  in  eastern  Turkey;  it  reiterated  its  denial  of 
responsibility  for  the  1915  massacre  of  Armenians  in  the  Otto- 
man Empire.  In  June  these  policies  prompted  Armenia  to 
approve  the  security  agreement  with  Russia  that  stationed  Rus- 
sian airborne  troops  in  Armenia  near  the  Turkish  border.  In 
July  Armenia  firmly  refused  Turkey's  offer  to  send  peacekeep- 
ing forces  to  Nagorno-Karabakh.  Thus,  Armenia  became  an 
important  player  in  the  continuing  contest  between  Russia  and 
Turkey  for  influence  in  the  Black  Sea  and  Caucasus  regions. 
Armenians  considered  the  official  commemoration  by  Israel 
and  Russia  of  the  1915  Armenian  massacre  a  significant 
advancement  in  the  country's  international  position. 

Early  in  1994,  Armenia's  relations  with  Georgia  worsened 
after  Azerbaijani  terrorists  in  Georgia  again  sabotaged  the  nat- 
ural gas  pipeline  supplying  Armenia  through  Georgia.  Delayed 
rail  delivery  to  Armenia  of  goods  arriving  in  Georgian  ports 
also  caused  friction.  Underlying  these  stresses  were  Georgia's 
unreliable  transport  system  and  its  failure  to  prevent  violent 
acts  on  Georgian  territory.  Pipeline  and  railroad  sabotage  inci- 
dents continued  through  mid-1994. 

The  domestic  political  front  remained  heated  in  1994.  As 
the  parliamentary  elections  of  1995  approached,  Ter-Petro- 
sian's  centrist  Armenian  Pannational  Movement  (APM),  which 
dominated  political  life  after  1991,  had  lost  ground  to  the  right 
and  the  left  because  Armenians  were  losing  patience  with  eco- 
nomic hardship.  Opposition  newspapers  and  citizens'  groups, 
which  Ter-Petrosian  refused  to  outlaw,  continued  their  accusa- 
tions of  official  corruption  and  their  calls  for  the  resignation  of 
the  Ter-Petrosian  government  early  in  the  year.  Then,  in  mid- 
1994  the  opposition  accelerated  its  activity  by  mounting  anti- 
government  street  demonstrations  of  up  to  50,000  protesters. 

In  the  protracted  struggle  over  a  new  constitution,  the 
opposition  intensified  rhetoric  supporting  a  document  built 
around  a  strong  legislature  rather  than  the  strong-executive 
version  supported  by  Ter-Petrosian.  By  the  fall  of  1994,  little 
progress  had  been  made  even  on  the  method  of  deciding  this 
critical  issue.  While  opposition  parties  called  for  a  constitu- 
tional assembly,  the  president  offered  to  hold  a  national  refer- 
endum, following  which  he  would  resign  if  defeated. 


xxxiv 


Economic  conditions  were  also  a  primary  issue  for  the 
opposition.  The  value  of  the  dram,  pegged  at  14.5  to  the 
United  States  dollar  when  it  was  established  in  November  1993, 
had  plummeted  to  390  to  the  dollar  by  May  1994.  In  Septem- 
ber a  major  overhaul  of  Armenia's  financial  system  was  under 
way,  aimed  at  establishing  official  interest  rates  and  a  national 
credit  system,  controlling  inflation,  opening  a  securities  mar- 
ket, regulating  currency  exchange,  and  licensing  lending  insti- 
tutions. In  the  overall  plan,  the  Central  Bank  of  Armenia  and 
the  Erevan  Stock  Exchange  assumed  central  roles  in  redirect- 
ing the  flow  of  resources  toward  production  of  consumer 
goods.  And  government  budgeting  began  diverting  funds  from 
military  to  civilian  production  support,  a  step  advertised  as  the 
beginning  of  the  transition  from  a  command  to  a  market  econ- 
omy. This  process  included  the  resumption  of  privatization  of 
state  enterprises,  which  had  ceased  in  mid-1992,  including  full 
privatization  of  small  businesses  and  cautious  partial  privatiza- 
tion of  larger  ones.  In  mid-1994  the  value  of  the  dram  stabi- 
lized, and  industrial  production  increased  somewhat.  As 
another  winter  approached,  however,  the  amount  of  goods  and 
food  available  to  the  average  consumer  remained  at  or  below 
subsistence  level,  and  social  unrest  threatened  to  increase. 

In  September  Armenia  negotiated  terms  for  the  resumption 
of  natural  gas  deliveries  from  its  chief  supplier,  Turkmenistan, 
which  had  threatened  a  complete  cutoff  because  of  outstand- 
ing debts.  Under  the  current  agreement,  all  purchases  of  Turk- 
men gas  were  destined  for  electric  power  generation  in 
Armenia.  Also  in  September,  the  IMF  offered  favorable  interest 
rates  on  a  loan  of  US$800  million  if  Armenia  raised  consumer 
taxes  and  removed  controls  on  bread  prices.  Armenian  officials 
resisted  those  conditions  because  they  would  further  erode  liv- 
ing conditions. 

Thus  in  mid-1994  Armenia,  blessed  with  strong  leadership 
and  support  from  abroad  but  cursed  with  a  poor  geopolitical 
position  and  few  natural  resources,  was  desperate  for  peace 
after  the  Karabakh  Armenians  had  virtually  won  their  war  for 
self-determination.  With  many  elements  of  post-Soviet  eco- 
nomic reform  in  place,  a  steady  flow  of  assistance  from  the 
West,  and  an  end  to  the  Karabakh  conflict  in  sight,  Armenia 
looked  forward  to  a  new  era  of  development. 

Azerbaijan 

Azerbaijan,  the  easternmost  and  largest  of  the  Transcauca- 


xxxv 


sus  states  in  size  and  in  population,  has  the  richest  combina- 
tion of  agricultural  and  industrial  resources  of  the  three  states. 
But  Azerbaijan's  quest  for  reform  has  been  hindered  by  the 
limited  contact  it  had  with  Western  institutions  and  cultures 
before  the  Soviet  era  began  in  1922. 

Although  Azerbaijan  normally  is  included  in  the  three-part 
grouping  of  the  Transcaucasus  countries  (and  was  so  defined 
politically  between  1922  and  1936),  it  has  more  in  common 
culturally  with  the  Central  Asian  republics  east  of  the  Caspian 
Sea  than  with  Armenia  and  Georgia.  The  common  link  with 
the  latter  states  is  the  Caucasus  mountain  range,  which  defines 
the  topography  of  the  northern  and  western  parts  of  Azer- 
baijan. A  unique  aspect  of  Azerbaijan's  political  geography  is 
the  enclave  of  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic,  created 
by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1924  in  the  area  between  Armenia  and 
Iran  and  separated  from  the  rest  of  Azerbaijan  by  Armenian 
territory.  In  1924  the  Soviet  Union  also  created  the  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  Autonomous  Region  within  Azerbaijan,  an  enclave 
whose  population  was  about  94  percent  Armenian  at  that  time 
and  remained  about  75  percent  Armenian  in  the  late  1980s. 

Beginning  in  the  last  years  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  extend- 
ing into  the  1990s,  the  drive  for  independence  by  Nagorno- 
Karabakh's  Armenian  majority  was  an  issue  of  conflict  between 
Armenia,  which  insisted  on  self-determination  for  its  fellow 
Armenians,  and  Azerbaijan,  which  cited  historical  acceptance 
of  its  sovereignty  whatever  the  region's  ethnic  composition.  By 
1991  the  independence  struggle  was  an  issue  of  de  facto  war 
between  Azerbaijan  and  the  Karabakh  Armenians,  who  by  1993 
controlled  all  of  Karabakh  and  much  of  adjoining  Azerbaijan. 

The  population  of  Azerbaijan,  already  83  percent  Azer- 
baijani before  independence,  became  even  more  homoge- 
neous as  members  of  the  two  principal  minorities,  Armenians 
arid  Russians,  emigrated  in  the  early  1990s  and  as  thousands  of 
Azerbaijanis  immigrated  from  neighboring  Armenia.  The 
heavily  urbanized  population  of  Azerbaijan  is  concentrated 
around  the  cities  of  Baku,  Gyandzha,  and  Sumgait. 

Like  the  other  former  Soviet  republics,  Azerbaijan  began  in 
1991  to  seek  the  right  combination  of  indigenous  and  "bor- 
rowed" qualities  to  replace  the  awkwardly  imposed  economic 
and  political  imprint  of  the  Soviet  era.  And,  like  Armenia  and 
Georgia,  Azerbaijan  faced  the  complications  of  internal  politi- 
cal disruption  and  military  crisis  in  the  first  years  of  this  pro- 
cess. 


xxxvi 


For  more  than  100  years,  Azerbaijan's  economy  has  been 
dominated  by  petroleum  extraction  and  processing.  In  the 
Soviet  system,  Azerbaijan's  delegated  role  had  evolved  from 
supplying  crude  oil  to  supplying  oil-extraction  equipment,  as 
Siberian  oil  fields  came  to  dominate  the  Soviet  market  and  as 
Caspian  oil  fields  were  allowed  to  deteriorate.  Although 
exploited  oil  deposits  were  greatly  depleted  in  the  Soviet 
period,  the  economy  still  depends  heavily  on  industries  linked 
to  oil.  The  country  also  depends  heavily  on  trade  with  Russia 
and  other  former  Soviet  republics.  Azerbaijan's  overall  indus- 
trial production  dropped  in  the  early  1990s,  although  not  as 
drastically  as  that  of  Armenia  and  Georgia.  The  end  of  Soviet- 
supported  trade  connections  and  the  closing  of  inefficient  fac- 
tories caused  unemployment  to  rise  and  industrial  productivity 
to  fall  an  estimated  26  percent  in  1992;  acute  inflation  caused  a 
major  economic  crisis  in  1993. 

Azerbaijan  did  not  restructure  its  agriculture  as  quickly  as 
did  Armenia  and  Georgia;  inefficient  Soviet  methods  contin- 
ued to  hamper  production,  and  the  role  of  private  initiative 
remained  small.  Agriculture  in  Azerbaijan  also  was  hampered 
by  the  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  which  was  an  important 
source  of  fruits,  grain,  grapes,  and  livestock.  As  much  as  70  per- 
cent of  Azerbaijan's  arable  land  was  occupied  by  military  forces 
at  some  stage  of  the  conflict. 

In  spite  of  these  setbacks,  Azerbaijan's  economy  remains  the 
healthiest  among  the  three  republics,  largely  because  unex- 
ploited  oil  and  natural  gas  deposits  are  plentiful  (although  out- 
put declined  in  the  early  1990s)  and  because  ample  electric- 
power  generating  plants  are  in  operation.  Azerbaijan  has  been 
able  to  attract  Western  investment  in  its  oil  industry  in  the  post- 
Soviet  years,  although  Russia  remains  a  key  oil  customer  and 
investor.  In  1993  the  former  Soviet  republics  remained  Azer- 
baijan's most  important  trading  partners,  and  state  bureaucra- 
cies still  controlled  most  foreign  trade.  Political  instability  in 
Baku,  however,  continued  to  discourage  Turkey,  a  natural  trad- 
ing partner,  from  expanding  commercial  relations. 

The  political  situation  of  Azerbaijan  was  extremely  volatile 
in  the  first  years  of  independence.  With  performance  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh  rather  than  achievement  of  economic  and 
political  reform  as  their  chief  criterion,  Azerbaijanis  deposed 
presidents  in  1992  and  1993,  then  returned  former  communist 
party  boss  Heydar  Aliyev  to  power.  In  1992,  in  the  country's 
first  and  only  free  election,  the  people  had  chosen  Abulfaz 


xxxvii 


Elchibey,  leader  of  the  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  (APF),  as 
president.  Meanwhile,  the  Azerbaijani  Communist  Party,  for- 
mally disbanded  in  1991,  retained  positions  of  political  and 
economic  power  and  was  key  in  the  coup  that  returned  Aliyev 
to  power  in  June  1993.  Former  communists  dominated  policy 
making  in  the  government  Aliyev  formed  after  his  rubber- 
stamp  election  as  president  the  following  October.  However, 
the  APF  remained  a  formidable  opposition  force,  especially 
critical  of  any  sign  of  weakness  on  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  issue. 

During  the  transition  period,  the  only  national  legislative 
body  was  the  Melli-Majlis  (National  Council),  a  fifty-member 
interim  assembly  that  came  under  the  domination  of  former 
communists  and,  by  virtue  of  postponing  parliamentary  elec- 
tions indefinitely,  continued  to  retain  its  power  in  late  1994. 
Aliyev  promised  a  new  constitution  and  democratic  rule,  but 
he  prolonged  his  dictatorial  powers  on  the  pretext  of  the  con- 
tinuing military  emergency.  Work  on  a  new  constitution  was 
begun  in  1992,  but  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict  and  politi- 
cal turmoil  delayed  its  completion;  meanwhile,  elements  of  the 
1978  constitution  (based  on  the  1977  constitution  of  the  Soviet 
Union)  remain  the  highest  law  of  the  land,  supplemented  only 
by  provisions  of  the  1991  Act  of  Independence. 

Azerbaijan's  post-Soviet  foreign  policy  attempted  to  balance 
the  interests  of  three  stronger,  often  mutually  hostile,  neigh- 
bors— Iran,  Russia,  and  Turkey — while  using  those  nations' 
interests  in  regional  peace  to  help  resolve  the  Karabakh  con- 
flict. The  Elchibey  regime  of  1992-93  leaned  toward  Turkey, 
which  it  saw  as  the  best  mediator  in  Karabakh.  Armenia  took 
advantage  of  this  strategy,  however,  to  form  closer  ties  with  Rus- 
sia, whose  economic  assistance  it  needed  desperately.  Begin- 
ning in  1993,  Aliyev  sought  to  rekindle  relations  with  Russia 
and  Iran,  believing  that  Russia  could  negotiate  a  positive  settle- 
ment in  Karabakh.  Relations  with  Turkey  were  carefully  main- 
tained, however. 

Beginning  in  1991,  Azerbaijan's  external  national  security 
was  breached  by  the  incursion  of  the  Armenian  separatist 
forces  of  Karabakh  militias  and  reinforcements  from  Armenia. 
Azerbaijan's  main  strategy  in  this  early  period  was  to  blockade 
landlocked  Armenia's  supply  lines  and  to  rely  for  national 
defense  on  the  Russian  4th  Army,  which  remained  in  Azer- 
baijan in  1991.  Clashes  between  Russian  troops  and  Azerbaijani 
civilians  in  1991  and  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union,  however, 


xxxvin 


led  Russia  to  a  rapid  commitment  for  withdrawal  of  troops  and 
equipment,  which  was  completed  in  mid-1993. 

Under  those  circumstances,  a  new,  limited  national  armed 
force  was  planned  in  1992,  and,  as  had  been  done  in  Armenia, 
the  government  appealed  to  Azerbaijani  veterans  of  the  Soviet 
army  to  defend  their  homeland.  But  the  force  took  shape 
slowly,  and  outside  assistance — mercenaries  and  foreign  train- 
ing officers — were  summoned  to  stem  the  Armenian  advance 
that  threatened  all  of  southern  Azerbaijan.  In  1993  continued 
military  failures  brought  reports  of  mass  desertion  and  subse- 
quent large-scale  recruitment  of  teenage  boys,  as  well  as  whole- 
sale changes  in  the  national  defense  establishment. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  domestic  and  international  confu- 
sion bred  by  the  Karabakh  conflict  increased  customs  viola- 
tions, white-collar  crime,  and  threats  to  the  populace  by 
criminal  bands.  The  role  of  Azerbaijanis  in  the  international 
drug  market  expanded  noticeably.  In  1993  the  Aliyev  govern- 
ment responded  to  these  problems  with  a  major  reform  of  the 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  which  had  been  plagued  by  cor- 
ruption and  incompetence,  but  experts  agreed  that  positive 
results  required  a  more  stable  overall  atmosphere. 

In  December  1993,  Azerbaijan  launched  a  major  surprise 
attack  on  all  fronts  in  Karabakh,  using  newly  drafted  personnel 
in  wave  attacks,  with  air  support.  The  attack  initially  over- 
whelmed Armenian  positions  in  the  north  and  south  but  ulti- 
mately was  unsuccessful.  An  estimated  8,000  Azerbaijani  troops 
died  in  the  two-month  campaign,  which  Armenian  authorities 
described  as  Azerbaijan's  best-planned  offensive  of  the  conflict. 

When  the  winter  offensive  failed,  Aliyev  began  using  diplo- 
matic channels  to  seek  peace  terms  acceptable  to  his  constitu- 
ents, involving  Russia  as  little  as  possible.  Already  in  March,  the 
chairman  of  the  Azerbaijani  parliament  had  initiated  a  private 
meeting  with  his  opposite  number  from  Armenia,  an  event 
hailed  in  the  Azerbaijani  press  as  a  major  Azerbaijani  peace  ini- 
tiative. Official  visits  by  Aliyev  to  Ankara  and  London  early  in 
1994  yielded  little  additional  support  for  Azerbaijan's  position. 
(Turkey  remained  suspicious  of  Aliyev's  communist  back- 
ground.) 

At  this  point,  Azerbaijan  reasserted  its  support  for  the  CSCE 
peace  plan,  which  would  use  international  monitors  rather 
than  military  forces  to  enforce  the  cease-fire  in  Karabakh.  Per- 
haps with  the  goal  of  avoiding  further  military  losses,  Aliyev 
approved  in  May  the  provisional  cease-fire  conditions  of  the 


xxxix 


Bishkek  Protocol,  sponsored  by  the  CIS.  That  agreement, 
which  softened  Azerbaijan's  position  on  recognizing  the  sover- 
eignty of  Nagorno-Karabakh,  was  subsequently  the  basis  for 
terms  of  a  true  armistice. 

Azerbaijan's  official  position  on  armistice  conditions 
remained  unchanged,  however,  during  the  negotiations  of  the 
summer  and  fall  of  1994,  in  the  face  of  Armenia's  insistence 
that  only  an  armed  peacekeeping  force  (inevitably  Russian) 
could  prevent  new  outbreaks  of  fighting.  During  that  period, 
sporadic  Azerbaijani  attacks  tended  to  confirm  Armenia's  judg- 
ment. At  the  same  time,  Aliyev  urged  that  his  countrymen  take 
a  more  conciliatory  position  toward  Russia.  Aliyev  argued  that 
the  Soviet  Union,  not  Russia,  had  sent  the  troops  who  had 
killed  Azerbaijanis  when  they  arrived  to  keep  peace  with  Arme- 
nia in  1990  and  that  Azerbaijan  could  profit  from  exploiting 
rather  than  rejecting  the  remaining  ties  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. 

In  May  Aliyev  signed  the  NATO  Partnership  for  Peace 
agreement,  giving  Azerbaijan  the  associate  status  that  NATO 
had  offered  to  East  European  nations  and  the  former  republics 
of  the  Soviet  Union  in  late  1993.  The  same  month,  Aliyev 
received  a  mid-level  United  States  delegation  charged  with  dis- 
cussing diplomatic  support  for  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  peace 
process,  Caspian  Sea  oil  exploration  by  United  States  firms, 
and  bilateral  trade  agreements. 

In  July  Aliyev  extended  his  diplomacy  to  the  Muslim  world, 
visiting  Saudi  Arabia  and  Iran  in  an  effort  to  balance  his  diplo- 
matic contacts  with  the  West.  Iran  was  especially  important 
because  of  its  proximity  to  Karabakh  and  its  interest  in  ending 
the  conflict  on  its  border.  Iran  responded  to  offers  of  economic 
cooperation  by  insisting  that  any  agreement  must  await  a  peace 
treaty  between  Azerbaijan  and  Armenia. 

In  the  fall  of  1994,  a  seventeen-point  peace  agreement  was 
drafted,  but  major  issues  remained  unresolved.  Azerbaijani 
concerns  centered  on  withdrawal  of  Armenian  forces  from 
Azerbaijani  territory  and  conditions  that  would  permit  Azer- 
baijani refugees  to  return  home.  (An  estimated  1  million  Azer- 
baijanis had  fled  to  other  parts  of  Azerbaijan  or  Iran  from 
occupied  territory.)  The  top  priorities  for  Armenia  were  ensur- 
ing security  for  Armenians  in  Karabakh  and  defining  the  status 
of  the  region  prior  to  the  withdrawal  of  forces. 

A  second  result  of  the  failed  winter  offensive  of  1993-94  was 
a  new  crackdown  by  the  Aliyev  government  on  dissident  activ- 


xl 


ity.  Early  in  1994,  censors  in  the  Main  Administration  for  Pro- 
tecting State  Secrets  in  the  Press  sharply  increased  censorship 
of  material  criticizing  the  regime,  and  the  government  cut  the 
supply  of  paper  and  printing  plates  to  opposition  newspapers. 
In  May  a  confrontation  between  Aliyev  loyalists  and  opponents 
in  the  Melli-Majlis  resulted  in  arrests  of  opposition  leaders  and 
reduction  in  the  number  of  members  required  for  a  quorum  to 
pass  presidential  proposals. 

The  issue  behind  the  May  dispute  was  Aliyev's  handling  of 
the  Karabakh  peace  process.  A  variety  of  opposition  parties  and 
organizations  claimed  that  the  Bishkek  Protocol  had  betrayed 
Azerbaijan  by  recognizing  the  sovereignty  of  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh. A  new  coalition,  the  National  Resistance  Movement,  was 
formed  immediately  after  the  May  confrontation  in  the  Melli- 
Majlis.  The  movement's  two  principles  were  opposition  to  rein- 
troduction  of  Russian  forces  in  Azerbaijan  and  opposition  to 
Aliyev's  "dictatorship."  By  the  end  of  the  summer,  however,  the 
movement  had  drawn  closer  to  Aliyev's  position  on  the  first 
point,  and  the  announcement  of  long-delayed  parliamentary 
elections  to  be  held  in  the  summer  of  1995  aimed  to  defuse 
charges  of  dictatorship.  Draft  election  legislation  called  for 
replacing  the  "temporary"  Melli-Majlis  with  a  150-seat  legisla- 
ture in  1995. 

In  October  1994,  a  military  coup,  supported  by  Prime  Minis- 
ter Suret  Huseynov,  failed  to  topple  Aliyev.  Aliyev  responded  by 
declaring  a  two-month  state  of  emergency,  banning  demonstra- 
tions, and  taking  military  control  of  key  positions.  Huseynov, 
who  had  signed  the  Bishkek  Protocol  as  Azerbaijan's  represen- 
tative, was  dismissed. 

Price  and  wage  levels  continued  to  reduce  the  standard  of 
living  in  Azerbaijan  in  1994.  Between  mid-1993  and  mid-1994, 
prices  increased  by  an  average  of  about  sixteen  times;  from 
November  1993  to  July  1994,  the  state-established  minimum 
wage  more  than  doubled.  To  speed  conversion  to  a  market 
economy,  the  ministries  of  finance  and  economics  submitted 
plans  in  July  to  combine  state-run  enterprises  in  forms  more 
suitable  for  privatization.  Land  privatization  has  proceeded 
cautiously  because  of  strong  political  support  for  maintaining 
the  Soviet-era  state-farm  system.  In  mid-1994  about  1  percent 
of  arable  land  was  in  private  hands,  the  bureaucratic  process 
for  obtaining  private  land  remained  long  and  cumbersome, 
and  state  allocation  of  equipment  to  private  farmers  was  mea- 
ger. 


xli 


Meanwhile,  in  1994  currency-exchange  activity  increased 
dramatically  in  Azerbaijani  banks,  bringing  more  foreign  cur- 
rency into  the  country.  The  ruble  remained  the  most  widely 
used  foreign  unit  in  1994.  In  June,  at  the  insistence  of  the  IMF 
and  the  World  Bank,  the  National  Bank  of  Azerbaijan  stopped 
issuing  credit  that  lacked  monetary  backing,  a  practice  that 
had  fueled  inflation  and  destabilized  the  economy. 

The  main  hope  for  Azerbaijan's  economic  recovery  lies  in 
reviving  exploitation  of  offshore  oil  deposits  in  the  Caspian 
Sea.  By  1993  these  deposits  had  attracted  strong  interest 
among  British,  Norwegian,  Russian,  Turkish,  and  United  States 
firms.  Within  a  consortium  of  such  firms,  Russia  would  likely 
have  a  10  percent  share  and  provide  the  pipeline  and  the  main 
port  (Novorossiysk  on  the  Black  Sea)  for  export  of  Azerbaijan's 
oil.  An  agreement  signed  in  September  1994  included  United 
States,  British,  Turkish,  Russian,  and  Azerbaijani  oil  companies. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  development  of  Azerbaijan's  foreign 
trade  was  skewed  by  the  refusal  of  eighteen  nations,  including 
the  United  States,  Canada,  Israel,  India,  and  the  Republic  of 
Korea  (South  Korea),  to  import  products  from  Azerbaijan  as 
long  as  the  blockade  of  Armenia  continued.  At  the  same  time, 
many  of  those  countries  sold  significant  amounts  of  goods  in 
Azerbaijan.  Overall,  in  the  first  half  of  1994  one-third  of  Azer- 
baijan's imports  came  from  the  "far  abroad"  (all  non-CIS  trad- 
ing partners),  and  46  percent  of  its  exports  went  outside  the 
CIS.  In  that  period,  total  imports  exceeded  total  exports  by 
US$140  million.  At  the  same  time,  the  strongest  long-term 
commercial  ties  within  the  CIS  were  with  Kazakhstan,  Russia, 
Turkmenistan,  and  Ukraine. 

Like  Armenia,  Azerbaijan  was  able  to  improve  internal  con- 
ditions only  marginally  while  awaiting  the  relief  of  a  final  peace 
settlement  in  Karabakh.  Unlike  either  of  its  Transcaucasus 
neighbors,  however,  Azerbaijan  had  the  prospect  of  major 
large-scale  Western  investment  once  investment  conditions 
improved.  Combined  with  potential  oil  earnings,  diplomatic 
approaches  by  President  Aliyev  in  1994  to  a  number  of  foreign 
countries,  including  all  of  Azerbaijan's  neighbors,  seemed  to 
offer  it  a  much-improved  postwar  international  position.  A 
great  deal  depended,  however,  on  the  smooth  surrender  of 
wartime  emergency  powers  by  the  Aliyev  government  and  on 
accelerating  the  stalled  development  of  a  market  economy. 


xlii 


Georgia 


Georgia  possesses  the  advantages  of  a  subtropical  Black  Sea 
coastline  and  a  rich  mixture  of  Western  and  Eastern  cultural 
elements.  A  combination  of  topographical  and  national  idio- 
syncracies  has  preserved  that  cultural  blend,  whose  chief  impe- 
tus was  the  Georgian  golden  age  of  the  twelfth  and  early 
thirteenth  centuries,  during  long  periods  of  occupation  by  for- 
eign empires.  Perhaps  the  most  vivid  result  of  this  cultural 
independence  is  the  Georgian  language,  unrelated  to  any 
other  major  tongue  and  largely  unaffected  by  the  languages  of 
conquering  peoples — at  least  until  the  massive  influx  of  techni- 
cal loanwords  at  the  end  of  the  twentieth  century. 

Since  independence,  Georgia  has  had  difficulty  establishing 
solid  political  institutions.  This  difficulty  has  been  caused  by 
the  distractions  of  continuing  military  crises  and  by  the  chronic 
indecision  of  policy  makers  about  the  country's  proper  long- 
term  goals  and  the  strategy  to  reach  them.  Also,  like  the  other 
Transcaucasus  states,  Georgia  lacks  experience  with  the  demo- 
cratic institutions  that  are  now  its  political  ideal;  rubber-stamp 
passage  of  Moscow's  agenda  is  quite  different  from  creation  of 
a  legislative  program  useful  to  an  emerging  nation. 

As  in  Azerbaijan,  Georgia's  most  pressing  problem  has  been 
ethnic  separatism  within  the  country's  borders.  Despite  Geor- 
gia's modest  size,  throughout  history  all  manifestations  of  a 
Georgian  nation  have  included  ethnic  minorities  that  have 
conflicted  with,  or  simply  ignored,  central  power.  Even  in  the 
golden  age,  when  a  central  ruling  power  commanded  the  most 
widespread  loyalty,  King  David  the  Builder  was  called  "King  of 
the  Abkhaz,  the  Kartvelians,  the  Ran,  the  Kakhetians,  and  the 
Armenians."  In  the  twentieth  century,  arbitrary  rearrangement 
of  ethnic  boundaries  by  the  Soviet  regime  resulted  in  the 
sharpening  of  various  nationalist  claims  after  Soviet  power 
finally  disappeared.  Thus,  in  1991  the  South  Ossetians  of  Geor- 
gia demanded  union  with  the  Ossetians  across  the  Russian  bor- 
der, and  in  1992  the  Abkhaz  of  Georgia  demanded  recognition 
as  an  independent  nation,  despite  their  minority  status  in  the 
region  of  Georgia  they  inhabited. 

As  in  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  influential,  intensely  nation- 
alist factions  pushed  hard  for  unqualified  military  success  in 
the  struggle  for  separatist  territory.  And,  as  in  the  other  Trans- 
caucasus nations,  those  factions  were  frustrated  by  military  and 
geopolitical  reality:  in  Georgia's  case,  an  ineffective  Georgian 


xliii 


army  required  assistance  from  Russia,  the  imperialist  neighbor 
against  whom  nationalists  had  sharpened  their  teeth  only  three 
years  earlier,  to  save  the  nation  from  fragmentation.  At  the  end 
of  1993,  Russia  seemingly  had  settled  into  a  long-term  role  of 
peacekeeping  and  occupation  between  Georgian  and  Abkha- 
zian forces. 

The  most  unsettling  internal  crisis  was  the  failed  presidency 
of  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia,  once  a  respected  human  rights  advo- 
cate and  the  undisputed  leader  of  Georgia's  nationalist  opposi- 
tion as  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  became  imminent.  In 
1991  Gamsakhurdia's  dictatorial  and  paranoid  regime,  fol- 
lowed by  the  bloody  process  of  unseating  him,  gave  Georgia  a 
lasting  reputation  for  instability  that  damaged  prospects  for 
foreign  investment  and  for  participation  in  international  orga- 
nizations. 

The  failure  of  the  one-year  Gamsakhurdia  regime  necessi- 
tated a  new  political  beginning  that  coincided  with  the  estab- 
lishment of  Eduard  Shevardnadze  as  head  of  state  in  early 
1992.  Easily  the  most  popular  politician  in  Georgia  and  facing 
chronically  fragmented  opposition  in  parliament,  Shevard- 
nadze acquired  substantial  "temporary"  executive  powers  as  he 
maneuvered  to  maintain  national  unity.  At  the  same  time,  his 
hesitation  to  imitate  Gamsakhurdia's  grab  for  power  often  left 
a  vacuum  that  was  filled  by  quarreling  splinter  parties  with 
widely  varied  agendas.  Shevardnadze  preserved  parts  of  his 
reform  program  by  forming  temporary  coalitions  that  dis- 
solved when  a  contentious  issue  appeared.  Despite  numerous 
calls  for  his  resignation,  and  despite  rampant  government  cor- 
ruption and  frequent  shifts  in  his  cabinet  between  1992  and 
1994,  there  were  no  other  serious  contenders  for  Shevard- 
nadze's position  as  of  late  1994. 

Shevardnadze  also  used  familiarity  with  the  world  of  diplo- 
macy to  reestablish  international  contacts,  gain  sympathy  for 
Georgia's  struggle  to  remain  unified,  and  seek  economic  ties 
wherever  they  might  be  available.  Unlike  Armenia  and  Azer- 
baijan, Georgia  did  not  arouse  particular  loyalty  or  hostility 
among  any  group  of  nations.  In  the  first  years  of  indepen- 
dence, Shevardnadze  made  special  overtures  to  Russia,  Turkey, 
and  the  United  States  and  attempted  to  balance  Georgia's 
approach  to  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  its  feuding  neighbors  in 
the  Transcaucasus. 

The  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  changed  Georgia's  eco- 
nomic position  significantly,  although  industrial  production 


xliv 


already  was  declining  in  the  last  Soviet  years.  In  the  Soviet  sys- 
tem, Georgia's  assignment  was  mainly  to  supply  the  union  with 
agricultural  products,  metal  products,  and  the  foreign  cur- 
rency collected  by  Georgian  tourist  attractions.  This  specializa- 
tion made  Georgia  dependent  on  other  Soviet  republics  for  a 
wide  range  of  products  that  were  unavailable  after  1991.  Nei- 
ther diversification  nor  meaningful  privatization  was  possible, 
however,  under  the  constant  upheaval  and  energy  shortages  of 
the  early  1990s.  In  addition,  powerful  organized  criminal 
groups  gained  control  of  large  segments  of  the  national  econ- 
omy, including  the  export  trade. 

After  the  January  1992  fall  of  Gamsakhurdia's  xenophobic 
regime,  the  maintenance  of  internal  peace  and  unity  was  a  crit- 
ical national  security  issue.  Although  some  progress  was  made 
in  establishing  a  national  armed  force  in  1994,  paramilitary 
organizations — the  Mkhedrioni  (horsemen)  and  the  National 
Guard — remained  influential  military  forces  in  the  fall  of  1994. 
The  small  size  and  the  poor  organization  of  those  groups  had 
forced  the  request  for  Russian  troop  assistance  in  late  1993, 
which  in  turn  renewed  the  national  security  dilemma  of  occu- 
pation by  foreign  troops.  Meanwhile,  civilian  internal  security 
forces,  of  which  Shevardnadze  took  personal  control  in  1993, 
gained  only  partial  victories  over  the  crime  wave  that  accompa- 
nied Georgia's  post-Soviet  upheavals.  A  series  of  reorganiza- 
tions in  security  agencies  failed  to  improve  the  protection  of 
individuals  against  random  crime  or  of  the  economic  system 
against  organized  groups. 

Through  most  of  1994,  the  Abkhazian  conflict  was  more 
diplomatic  than  military.  In  spite  of  periodic  hostilities,  the 
uneasy  truce  line  held  along  the  Inguri  River  in  far  northwest- 
ern Georgia  (in  the  campaign  of  October  1993,  Georgian 
forces  had  been  pushed  out  of  all  of  Abkhazia  except  the  far 
northern  corner) .  The  role  of  the  3,000  Russian  peacekeepers 
on  the  border,  and  their  relationship  with  United  Nations 
(UN)  observers,  was  recognized  by  a  resolution  of  the  UN 
Security  Council  in  July.  Throughout  that  period,  the  issue  of 
the  return  of  as  many  as  300,000  Georgian  refugees  to  Abkha- 
zia was  the  main  sticking  point  of  negotiations.  The  Abkhaz  saw 
the  influx  of  so  many  Georgians  as  a  danger  to  their  sover- 
eignty, which  Georgia  did  not  recognize,  and  the  refugees' 
plight  as  a  bargaining  chip  to  induce  further  Georgian  with- 
drawal. No  settlement  was  likely  before  the  refugee  issue  was 


xlv 


resolved.  Meanwhile,  supporting  the  refugees  placed  addi- 
tional stress  on  Georgian  society. 

A  legal  basis  for  the  presence  of  Russian  troops  in  Georgia 
had  been  established  in  a  status-of-forces  treaty  between  the 
two  nations  in  January  1994.  The  treaty  prescribed  the  author- 
ity and  operating  conditions  of  the  Group  of  Russian  Troops  in 
the  Caucasus  (GRTC),  which  was  characterized  as  on  Georgian 
territory  for  a  "transitional  period."  In  the  summer  of  1994, 
high-level  bilateral  talks  covered  Georgian-Russian  military 
cooperation  and  further  integration  of  CIS  forces. 

The  Georgian  economy  continued  to  struggle  in  1994, 
showing  only  isolated  signs  of  progress.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
year,  state  monopolies  were  reaffirmed  in  vital  industries  such 
as  tea  and  food  processing  and  electric  power.  By  May,  however, 
after  prodding  from  the  IMF,  Shevardnadze  began  issuing 
decrees  that  eased  privatization  conditions.  This  policy  spurred 
a  noticeable  acceleration  of  privatization  in  the  summer  of 
1994.  When  the  new  stimulus  began,  about  23  percent  of  state 
enterprises  had  been  privatized,  and  only  thirty-nine  joint-stock 
companies  had  formed  out  of  the  more  than  900  large  firms 
designated  for  that  type  of  conversion.  A  voucher  system  for 
collecting  private  investment  funds,  delayed  by  a  shortage  of 
hard  currency,  finally  began  operating.  But  the  state  economic 
bureaucracy,  entrenched  since  the  Soviet  era,  was  able  to  slow 
the  privatization  process  when  dispersal  of  economic  power 
threatened  its  privileged  position  in  1994. 

Between  mid-1993  and  mid-1994,  prices  rose  by  an  average 
of  300  percent,  and  inflation  severely  eroded  the  government- 
guaranteed  minimum  wage.  (In  August  the  minimum  wage, 
which  was  stipulated  in  coupons  [for  value  of  the  coupon — see 
Glossary],  equaled  US$0.33  per  month.)  Often  wages  were 
withheld  for  months  because  of  the  currency  shortage.  In  Sep- 
tember the  government  raised  price  standards  sharply  for  basic 
food  items,  transportation,  fuel,  and  services.  Lump-sum  pay- 
ments to  all  citizens,  designed  to  offset  this  cost,  failed  to  reach 
many,  prompting  new  calls  for  Shevardnadze's  resignation. 
Under  those  conditions,  most  Georgians  were  supported  by  a 
vast  network  of  unofficial  economic  activities. 

In  mid-1994  unemployment  was  estimated  unofficially  at  1.5 
million  people,  nearly  50  percent  of  Georgia's  working-age 
population.  The  exchange  rate  of  the  Georgian  coupon  stabi- 
lized in  early  1994  after  many  months  of  high  inflation,  but  by 
that  time  the  coupon  had  been  virtually  displaced  in  private 


xlvi 


transactions  by  the  ruble  and  the  dollar.  The  national  financial 
system  remained  chaotic — especially  in  tax  collection,  customs, 
and  import-export  operations.  The  first  major  state  bank  was 
privatized  in  the  summer  of  1994.  In  August  parliament 
approved  a  major  reform  program  for  social  welfare,  pricing, 
and  the  financial  system. 

In  July  1994,  a  Georgian-Russian  conference  on  economic 
cooperation  discussed  transnational  corporations  and  con- 
cluded some  contracts  for  joint  economic  activities,  but  most 
Russian  investors  demanded  stronger  legal  guarantees  for  their 
risks.  Numerous  Western  firms  established  small  joint  ventures 
in  1994,  but  the  most  critical  investment  project  under  discus- 
sion sought  to  exploit  the  substantial  oil  deposits  that  had  been 
located  by  recent  Australian,  British,  Georgian,  and  United 
States  explorations  in  the  Black  Sea  shelf  near  Batumi  and  Poti. 
A  first  step  in  foreign  involvement,  an  oil  refinery  near  Tbilisi, 
received  funding  in  July,  but  the  Western  firms  demanded 
major  reform  of  commercial  legislation  before  expanding  their 
participation. 

Georgia  experienced  a  major  energy  crisis  in  the  winter  of 
1993-94;  following  the  crisis,  in  mid-1994  Turkmenistan  drasti- 
cally reduced  natural  gas  supplies  because  of  unpaid  debts. 
Some  fuel  aid  was  expected  for  the  winter  of  1994-95  from 
Azerbaijan,  the  EU,  Iran,  and  Turkey.  The  output  of  the 
domestic  oil  industry  increased  sharply  in  mid-1994.  As  winter 
approached,  Georgia  also  offered  Turkmenistan  new  assur- 
ances of  payment  in  return  for  resumption  of  natural  gas  deliv- 
ery. 

Georgia's  communications  system,  a  chronically  weak  infra- 
structure link  that  also  had  discouraged  foreign  investment, 
began  integration  into  world  systems  in  early  1994  when  the 
country  joined  international  postal,  satellite,  and  electronic 
communications  organizations.  Joint  enterprises  with  Austra- 
lian, French,  German,  Turkish,  and  United  States  communica- 
tions companies  allowed  the  upgrading  of  the  national 
telephone  system  and  installation  of  fiber-optic  cables. 

In  the  first  half  of  1994,  the  most  frequent  topic  of  govern- 
ment debate  was  the  role  of  Russian  troops  in  Abkhazia.  By  that 
time,  opposition  nationalist  parties  had  accepted  the  Russian 
presence  but  rejected  Abkhazian  delays  in  allowing  the  return 
of  refugees  and  Shevardnadze's  tolerance  of  those  delays.  In 
May  Shevardnadze  overcame  parliament's  objections  to  new 
concessions  to  the  Abkhaz  by  threatening  to  resign.  The  new 


xlvii 


agreement  passed,  and  opposition  leaders  muted  their 
demands  for  Shevardnadze's  ouster  in  the  belief  that  Russia 
was  seeking  to  replace  him  with  someone  more  favorable  to 
Russian  intervention.  Nevertheless,  in  the  fall  of  1994  few 
Georgian  refugees  had  returned  to  Abkhazia. 

Shevardnadze's  exercise  of  extraordinary  executive  powers 
remained  a  hot  issue  in  parliament.  One  faction  called  for 
reduced  powers  in  the  name  of  democracy,  but  another 
claimed  that  a  still  stronger  executive  was  needed  to  enforce 
order.  In  a  July  poll,  48  percent  of  respondents  said  the  govern- 
ment was  obstructing  the  mass  media.  Although  the  1992  state 
of  emergency  continued  to  restrict  dissemination  of  informa- 
tion, the  Georgian  media  consistently  presented  various  oppo- 
sition  views.  Likewise,  the  Zviadists,  Gamsakhurdia's 
supporters,  although  banned  from  radio  and  television,  contin- 
ued to  hold  rallies  under  the  leadership  of  a  young  radical, 
Irakli  Tsereteli. 

In  1994  the  government  took  steps  to  improve  the  internal 
security  situation.  In  the  latest  of  a  long  series  of  organizational 
and  leadership  shuffles,  Shevardnadze  replaced  the  Emer- 
gency Committee,  which  had  been  headed  by  former  Mkhedri- 
oni  leader  Jaba  Ioseliani,  with  the  Emergency  Coordinating 
Commission,  headed  by  Shevardnadze,  and  gave  the  commis- 
sion a  vague  mandate  to  coordinate  economic,  political, 
defense,  and  law-enforcement  matters.  Ioseliani,  whose  com- 
mand of  the  Mkhedrioni  still  gave  him  great  influence,  became 
a  deputy  head  of  the  commission. 

Shevardnadze's  attempt  to  form  a  new,  one-battalion  Geor- 
gian army  was  delayed  throughout  the  first  half  of  1994.  The 
Ministry  of  Defense  continued  drafting  potential  soldiers  (a 
very  high  percentage  of  whom  evaded  recruitment)  for  the 
Georgian  armed  forces  and  streamlining  its  organization.  In 
September  the  national  budget  had  not  yet  allocated  wages, 
and  sources  of  rations  and  equipment  had  not  been  identi- 
fied— mainly  because  parliament  had  not  passed  the  necessary 
legislation.  Ministry  of  Defense  plans  called  for  the  country's 
remaining  state  farms  to  be  designated  for  direct  military  sup- 
ply, as  was  the  practice  in  the  Soviet  era.  The  disposition  of 
existing  paramilitary  forces  remained  undecided  as  of  late 
1994. 

The  intelligence  service  had  been  reorganized  in  late  1993 
to  include  elite  troops  mandated  to  fight  drug  smuggling  and 
organized  crime.  In  the  spring  of  1994,  new  agencies  were 


xlviii 


formed  in  the  State  Security  Service  to  investigate  fiscal  crimes 
and  to  combat  terrorism.  And  in  August  1994,  the  Ministry  of 
Internal  Affairs  announced  a  major  new  drive  against  orga- 
nized crime  and  drug  traffickers  throughout  Georgia.  Parlia- 
ment and  local  jurisdictions  offered  indifferent  support, 
however. 

In  1994  Georgia  began  solving  some  of  its  most  critical 
problems — laying  a  political  base  for  a  market  economy,  solidi- 
fying to  a  degree  Shevardnadze's  position  as  head  of  state,  sta- 
bilizing inflation,  and  avoiding  large-scale  military  conflict.  But 
long-term  stability  will  depend  on  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  entire  economy,  eradication  of  the  corruption  that  has  per- 
vaded both  government  and  economic  institutions,  redirection 
of  resources  from  the  Abkhazian  conflict  into  a  civilian  infra- 
structure suitable  for  international  trade  (and  for  major  loans 
from  international  lenders),  and,  ultimately,  finding  political 
leaders  besides  Shevardnadze  who  are  capable  of  focusing 
Georgians'  attention  on  building  a  nation,  rather  than  on 
advancing  local  interests.  All  those  factors  will  influence  the 
other  major  imponderable:  Russia's  long-term  economic  and 
political  influence  in  Georgia,  which  increased  greatly  in  late 
1993  and  in  the  first  half  of  1994. 

October  18,  1994 

*         *  * 

In  the  months  following  preparation  of  this  manuscript,  a 
number  of  significant  events  occurred  in  the  three  countries  of 
the  Transcaucasus.  Cease-fires  in  two  major  conflicts,  between 
Abkhazia  and  Georgia  and  between  Armenia  and  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  on  one  side  and  Azerbaijan  on  the  other,  remained 
in  effect  despite  periodic  hostilities.  Although  the  two  sets  of 
peace  talks  continued  to  encounter  fundamental  differences, 
signs  of  compromise  emerged  from  both  in  the  first  months  of 
1995,  with  the  assistance  of  international  mediators.  All  three 
countries  continued  efforts  to  stabilize  their  economies, 
reduce  crime,  and  normalize  political  systems  distorted  by 
lengthy  states  of  emergency. 

At  the  beginning  of  1995,  Armenia  had  made  the  most 
progress  toward  economic  recovery  and  political  stability, 
although  its  population  suffered  another  winter  of  privation 
because  of  Azerbaijan's  fuel  blockade.  In  December  a  summit 


xlix 


of  the  Organisation  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE,  formerly  the  CSCE)  had  succeeded  in  merging  OSCE 
and  Russian  peace  efforts  on  Nagorno-Karabakh  for  the  first 
time  in  an  accord  signed  in  Budapest.  Russia  was  expected  to 
become  the  head  of  the  OSCE  Minsk  Group,  which  had  been 
negotiating  on  behalf  of  Western  Europe  for  the  previous  two 
years.  In  return,  Russia  accepted  OSCE  oversight  of  peacekeep- 
ing in  the  conflict  zone.  Armenia's  President  Ter-Petrosian 
reported  the  opening  of  three  defense  plants  and  full  staffing 
of  the  Armenian  Army  in  1994,  improving  Armenia's  national 
security  position. 

In  November  1994,  the  World  Bank  announced  loans  to 
Armenia  of  US$265  million  for  infrastructural,  agricultural, 
and  energy  applications.  The  bank  cited  Armenia's  new  reform 
program  to  control  inflation  and  expand  the  private  sector, 
together  with  the  first  increase  in  Armenia's  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  since  independence,  as  the  rea- 
sons for  this  investment.  In  December  the  reform  package 
went  into  effect.  Expected  to  improve  the  standing  of  President 
Ter-Petrosian's  embattled  government,  the  reform  included 
substantial  reduction  of  the  government's  budget  deficit,  which 
had  caused  many  workers  to  go  unpaid  and  others,  including 
teachers,  to  accept  barely  subsistence  wages.  The  second  major 
reform  measure  was  ending  government  subsidies  for  basic  sta- 
ples, including  bread  and  utilities — a  stringency  measure 
highly  unpopular  in  the  short  term  but  calculated  to  attract 
more  international  assistance.  The  price  of  bread  rose  by  ten 
times  as  soon  as  the  new  law  went  into  effect.  In  late  1994  and 
early  1995,  Armenia  also  continued  reestablishing  commercial 
ties  with  Iran  by  signing  a  series  of  three  economic  treaties  cov- 
ering taxation,  free  trade,  and  capital  investments.  Beginning 
in  1992,  commercial  activity  between  the  two  countries  had 
doubled  annually,  and  the  pace  was  expected  to  accelerate 
markedly  in  1995. 

Although  the  Armenian  government's  preparations  for 
another  winter  of  hardship  under  the  Azerbaijani  blockade 
were  more  extensive  than  in  previous  years,  conditions  for  the 
average  Armenian  were  barely  better  than  the  year  before.  In 
the  winter  of  1994-95,  Armenia's  chronic  fuel  shortage,  and 
the  rising  social  unrest  caused  by  it,  were  relieved  somewhat  by 
a  new  fuel  agreement  with  Georgia  and  Turkmenistan.  The 
pact  provided  for  substantial  increases  in  delivery  of  Turkmen 
natural  gas  through  the  Georgian  pipeline.  Although  this  mea- 


1 


sure  increased  the  daily  electricity  ration  from  one  hour  to  two 
hours,  long-term  fuel  increases  depended  on  additional  negoti- 
ations and  on  the  payment  of  Armenia's  substantial  debt  to 
Turkmenistan.  In  January  the  State  Duma,  the  lower  house  of 
Russia's  parliament,  was  considering  a  major  grant  of  credit  to 
Armenia,  which  would  be  used  in  reopening  the  Armenian 
Atomic  Power  Station  at  Metsamor.  The  arrangement  would  be 
a  major  step  in  solidifying  economic  ties  with  Russia,  which  also 
has  given  technical  assistance  for  the  plant. 

According  to  Armenian  Ministry  of  Industry  figures,  40  per- 
cent of  the  country's  1994  industrial  output,  worth  a  total  of 
US$147  million,  was  sold  for  hard  currency.  Among  the  main 
customers  were  Iran,  Syria,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  Cyprus, 
Belgium,  and  several  North  African  countries.  Although 
machine-building  industries  did  not  work  at  full  capacity  in 
1994  because  of  a  reduced  market  in  Russia,  industry  was 
buoyed  by  the  resumption  of  full  production  at  the  Nairit 
Chemical  Plant  after  several  years  of  shutdown.  Nairit  was 
expected  to  produce  goods  worth  US$60  million  per  month  in 
1995. 

Armenia's  state  commission  for  privatization  began  voucher 
distribution  to  the  public  in  October  1994.  At  that  point, 
vouchers  for  ten  enterprises  were  available,  with  another  fifty 
due  for  consideration  in  February  1995.  High  profitability  was 
the  chief  criterion  for  listing  enterprises  for  privatization.  The 
Nairit  plant  and  the  Armenian  Electrical  Machine  Plant,  Arme- 
nia's largest  and  most  profitable  industrial  facilities,  were  con- 
verted to  private  joint-stock  enterprises  in  January  1995. 

In  Azerbaijan,  hopes  for  economic  improvement  continued 
to  depend  on  foreign  investment  in  offshore  oil  deposits  in  the 
Caspian  Sea.  Those  hopes  were  subdued  somewhat  by  disagree- 
ments over  the  September  1994  agreement  of  Western,  Rus- 
sian, and  Iranian  oil  interests  to  aid  Socar,  Azerbaijan's  state  oil 
company,  to  develop  offshore  deposits  in  the  Caspian  Sea. 

Throughout  the  last  months  of  1994,  Russia  insisted  that  its 
10  percent  share  of  the  new  deal  was  unfair  on  the  grounds 
that  all  Caspian  countries  should  have  equal  access  to  Caspian 
resources.  Russia  also  continued  strong  opposition  to  a  new 
pipeline  through  Iran  to  Turkey,  which  the  Western  partners 
favored.  The  Western  firms  were  dismayed  by  Azerbaijan's  offer 
of  a  share  of  its  oil  deal  to  Iran,  by  the  political  uncertainty  that 
seemed  to  escalate  in  Azerbaijan  after  the  oil  deal  was  signed, 
and  by  the  rapid  deterioration  of  existing  Caspian  fields,  many 


li 


of  which  were  deserted  in  early  1995.  Experts  agreed  that 
world  oil  prices  would  play  an  important  role  in  Azerbaijan's 
profit  from  the  agreement. 

In  December  1994,  Russia's  military  occupation  of  its  sepa- 
ratist Chechen  Autonomous  Republic  (Chechnya)  closed  the 
main  rail  line  from  Russia,  the  chief  trade  route  to  other  CIS 
republics  and  elsewhere.  Replacement  trade  routes  were 
sought  through  Iran,  Turkey,  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates.  At 
the  same  time,  hyperinflation  continued,  spurred  by  full  liber- 
alization of  prices  to  conform  with  IMF  credit  requirements. 
The  1995  budget  deficit  equaled  20  percent  of  the  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  Foreign  credit,  espe- 
cially loans  from  Turkey,  was  being  used  to  provide  food  and 
social  services — needs  exacerbated  by  the  continuing  influx  of 
Karabakh  refugees.  Economic  reform,  meanwhile,  was  delayed 
by  more  immediate  concerns.  Most  industries  were  operating 
at  about  25  percent  of  capacity  during  the  winter  of  1994—95. 

In  the  last  months  of  1994,  Russia  struggled  to  maintain 
influence  in  Azerbaijan.  Its  position  was  threatened  by 
approval  of  the  multinational  Caspian  oil  deal  in  September 
and  by  the  Azerbaijani  perception  that  the  West  was  restraining 
Armenian  aggression  in  Karabakh.  In  November  President 
Aliyev  met  with  Russia's  President  Boris  N.  Yeltsin,  who  offered 
300,000  tons  of  Russian  grain  and  the  reopening  of  Russian 
railroad  lines  in  an  apparent  effort  to  increase  Russia's  influ- 
ence throughout  the  Transcaucasus.  Azerbaijani  opposition 
parties,  led  by  the  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  (APF),  continued 
to  predict  that  Aliyev's  overtures  to  Russia  would  return  Russia 
to  a  dominant  position  in  Azerbaijani  political  and  economic 
affairs.  Experts  predicted,  however,  that  Russia  would  continue 
to  play  a  vital  economic  role;  at  the  end  of  1994,  about  60  per- 
cent of  Azerbaijan's  trade  turnover  involved  Russia. 

In  early  1995,  the  issue  of  Nagorno-Karabakh's  status  contin- 
ued to  stymie  the  peace  talks  jointly  sponsored  in  Moscow  by 
the  OSCE  and  Russia  under  the  Budapest  agreement  of 
November  1994.  Although  Azerbaijan  had  signed  several  agree- 
ments with  Nagorno-Karabakh  as  a  full  participant,  the  extent 
of  the  region's  autonomy  remained  a  key  issue,  as  did  the  terms 
of  the  liberation  of  Azerbaijan's  Lachin  and  Shusha  regions 
from  Armenian  occupation.  The  Azerbaijani  position  was  that 
the  principals  of  the  negotiations  were  Armenia  and  Azer- 
baijan, with  the  respective  Armenian  and  Azerbaijani  commu- 
nities in  Nagorno-Karabakh  as  "interested  parties."  (At  the  end 


In 


of  1994,  an  estimated  126,000  Armenians  and  37,000  Azerbaija- 
nis  remained  in  the  region.)  Azerbaijan  lodged  an  official  pro- 
test against  Russian  insistence  that  the  Karabakh  Armenians 
constituted  a  third  principal.  In  February  presidents  Aliyev  and 
Ter-Petrosian  met  with  presidents  Nursultan  Nazarbayev  of 
Kazakhstan  and  Shevardnadze  of  Georgia  in  Moscow  and 
expressed  optimism  that  the  nine-month  cease-fire  would  hold 
until  complete  settlement  could  be  reached.  Nazarbayev  and 
the  presidents  of  Russia  and  Ukraine  offered  to  be  guarantors 
of  stability  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  if  Azerbaijan  would  guarantee 
the  region's  borders. 

After  the  unsuccessful  coup  against  him  by  Prime  Minister 
Suret  Huseynov  in  October  1994,  Azerbaijan's  President  Hey- 
dar  Aliyev  maintained  his  position.  Despite  loud  opposition 
from  the  APF  and  other  parties,  Aliyev  appeared  to  occupy  a 
strong  position  at  the  beginning  of  1995.  In  early  1995,  friction 
developed  between  Aliyev  and  Rusul  Guliyev,  speaker  of  the 
Melli-Majlis,  each  accusing  the  other  of  responsibility  for  wors- 
ening socioeconomic  conditions.  Former  president  Abulfaz 
Elchibey  remained  a  vocal  critic  of  Aliyev  and  had  a  substantial 
following  in  the  APF. 

In  Georgia,  the  unresolved  conflict  with  the  Abkhazian 
Autonomous  Republic  remained  the  most  important  issue. 
The  repatriation  of  Georgian  refugees  to  Abkhazia,  a  process 
conducted  very  slowly  by  Abkhazian  authorities  in  the  early 
autumn  of  1994,  ended  completely  between  November  1994 
and  January  1995.  Opposition  parties  in  Georgia,  especially  the 
National  Liberation  Front  led  by  former  prime  minister  Tengiz 
Sigua,  increased  their  pressure  on  the  government  to  take 
action,  likening  Abkhazia  to  Russia's  secessionist  Chechen 
Autonomous  Republic,  which  Russia  invaded  in  December 
1994.  (In  fact,  the  official  position  of  the  Shevardnadze  govern- 
ment supported  the  Russian  move,  both  because  of  the  parallel 
with  Abkhazia  and  because  of  the  need  for  continued  Russian 
military  monitoring  of  the  cease-fire.)  In  January  an  attempted 
march  of  1,400  armed  Georgian  refugees  into  Abkhazia  was 
halted  by  Georgian  government  troops,  and  organizer  Tengiz 
Kitovani,  former  minister  of  defense,  was  arrested  for  having 
organized  the  group.  Although  the  UN  adopted  resolutions  in 
January  condemning  the  Abkhazian  refugee  policy,  UN  offi- 
cials saw  little  hope  of  a  rapid  change  in  the  situation  in  1995. 

The  issue  of  human  rights  continued  to  dog  the  Shevard- 
nadze administration  in  late  1994  and  early  1995.  In  February 


Uii 


1995,  the  Free  Media  Association  of  Georgia,  which  included 
most  of  the  country's  largest  independent  newspapers,  offi- 
cially protested  police  oppression  and  confiscation  of  newspa- 
pers. Newspaper  production  had  already  been  restricted  since 
the  beginning  of  winter  because  of  Georgia's  acute  energy 
shortage. 

The  Georgian  political  world  was  shocked  by  the  assassina- 
tion in  December  1994  of  Gia  Chanturia,  leader  of  the  moder- 
ate opposition  National  Democratic  Party  and  one  of  the 
country's  most  popular  politicians.  Responsibility  for  the  act 
was  not  established.  Chanturia's  death  escalated  calls  for  resig- 
nation of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  an  outcome  made  more 
likely  by  the  parliament's  failure  to  pass  Shevardnadze's  pro- 
posed 1995  budget  and  by  continued  factionalism  within  the 
cabinet. 

An  important  emerging  figure  was  Minister  of  Defense 
Vardiko  Nadibaidze,  an  army  general  entrusted  in  1994  with 
developing  a  professional  Georgian  military  force  that  would 
reduce  reliance  on  outside  forces  (such  as  Russia's)  to  protect 
national  security.  At  the  end  of  1994,  Georgian  forces  were  esti- 
mated at  15,000  ground  troops,  3,000  air  and  air  defense  per- 
sonnel, and  1,500  to  2,000  in  the  coastal  defense  force. 

Economic  reform  continued  unevenly  under  the  direction 
of  Vice  Premier  for  Economics  Temur  Basilia.  By  design,  infla- 
tion and  prices  continued  to  rise  in  the  last  months  of  1994, 
and  rubles  and  dollars  remained  the  chief  currency  instead  of 
the  Georgian  coupon.  In  a  November  1994  poll,  one-third  of 
respondents  said  they  spent  their  entire  income  on  food.  Dis- 
tribution of  privatization  vouchers  among  the  population  was 
scheduled  to  begin  in  mid-1995.  In  November  1994,  more  than 
1,500  enterprises  had  been  privatized,  most  of  them  classified 
as  commercial  or  service  establishments.  A  group  of  Western 
and  Japanese,  donors  pledged  a  minimum  of  US$274  million  in 
credits  to  Georgia  in  1995,  with  another  US$162  million  avail- 
able pending  "visible  success"  in  economic  reform. 

In  Geneva,  peace  talks  between  the  Georgian  government 
and  the  Abkhazian  Autonomous  Republic  reached  the  eigh- 
teen-month mark;  the  major  points  of  disagreement  continued 
to  be  the  political  status  of  Abkhazia  and  the  repatriation  of 
Georgian  refugees.  The  Abkhazian  delegation  insisted  on 
equal  status  with  Georgia  in  a  new  confederation.  The  Russian 
and  UN  mediators  proposed  a  federal  legislature  and  joint 
agencies  for  foreign  policy,  foreign  trade,  taxation,  energy, 


liv 


communications,  and  human  rights,  providing  Abkhazia  sub- 
stantially more  autonomy  than  it  had  had  when  Georgia 
became  independent  but  leaving  open  the  question  of  relative 
power  within  such  a  system.  In  early  February  1995,  prelimi- 
nary accord  was  reached  on  several  points  of  the  mediators' 
proposal. 

As  1995  began,  prospects  for  stability  in  the  Transcaucasus 
were  marginally  better  than  they  had  been  since  the  three 
countries  achieved  independence  in  1991.  Much  depended  on 
continued  strong  leadership  from  presidents  Aliyev,  Shevard- 
nadze, and  Ter-Petrosian,  on  a  peaceful  environment  across 
the  borders  in  Russia  and  Iran,  and  on  free  access  to  the  natu- 
ral resources  needed  to  restart  the  respective  national  econo- 
mies. 


February  28,  1995  Glenn  E.  Curtis 


Iv 


Chapter  1.  Armenia 


Armenian  folk  costume 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Armenia. 
Short  Form:  Armenia. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Armenian (s). 
Capital:  Erevan. 

Date  of  Independence:  September  23,  1991. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  29,800  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Dominated  by  Lesser  Caucasus  range,  running 
across  north  and  then  turning  southeast  to  Iran.  Armenian 
Plateau  to  southwest  of  mountains.  Plateau,  major  feature  of 
central  Armenia,  slopes  gradually  downward  into  Aras  River 
valley,  which  forms  border  with  Turkey  to  west  and  Iran  to 
south. 

Climate:  Mountains  preclude  influence  from  nearby  seas; 
temperature  and  precipitation  generally  determined  by 
elevation:  colder  and  wetter  in  higher  elevations  (north  and 
northeast).  In  central  plateau,  wide  temperature  variation 
between  winter  and  summer. 

Society 

Population:  By  official  1994  estimate,  population  3,521,517;  in 
1994  annual  growth  rate  about  1.1  percent;  1991  population 
density  112.6  persons  per  square  kilometer. 

Ethnic  Groups:  In  1989  census,  Armenians  93.7  percent, 
Azerbaijanis  2.6  percent,  Kurds  1.7  percent,  and  Russians  1.6 
percent. 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


3 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Languages:  Official  state  language  Armenian,  spoken  by  96 
percent  of  population.  Russian  first  language  of  2  percent, 
second  language  for  about  40  percent  of  population. 

Religion:  Approximately  94  percent  of  population  belongs  to 
Armenian  Apostolic  Church.  Other  religions  include  Russian 
Orthodox,  Roman  Catholic,  Protestant  denominations,  and 
Islam. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Education  compulsory  through 
secondary  school.  Literacy  estimated  at  100  percent.  In  early 
1990s,  substantial  changes,  begun  in  previous  centralized 
Soviet  system,  emphasized  national  heritage. 

Health:  Nominal  continuation  of  Soviet-era  guarantee  of 
universal  care,  but  health  care  system  deteriorated  under  stress 
of  independence  and  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict.  Severe 
shortage  of  basic  medical  supplies  in  early  1990s,  and  many 
clinics  and  hospitals  closed. 

Economy 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Estimated  at  US$2.7  billion  in 
1992,  or  US$780  per  capita.  In  1992  growth  rate  -46  percent. 
Economic  growth  crippled  after  1989  by  Azerbaijani  blockade 
of  fuel  and  other  materials  and  by  demands  of  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  conflict. 

Agriculture:  After  privatization  in  1990,  assumed  larger  share 
of  economy;  most  land  privately  owned  by  1993.  Farms  small 
but  relatively  productive.  Main  crops  grains,  potatoes, 
vegetables,  grapes,  berries,  cotton,  sugar  beets,  tobacco,  figs, 
and  olives. 

Industry  and  Mining:  Dominant  light  manufacturing  products 
include  footwear,  woven  clothing,  and  carpets.  Nonferrous 
metallurgy,  machine  building,  electronics,  petrochemicals, 
fertilizers,  and  building  materials  most  important  heavy 
industries.  Mining  resource  base  broad,  including  copper, 
molybdenum,  gold,  silver,  and  iron  ore,  but  little  developed. 

Energy:  Nearly  all  energy  supplied  from  abroad,  causing  severe 
shortage  under  blockade  of  early  1990s.  Natural  gas,  delivered 
from  Turkmenistan  via  Georgia  pipeline,  frequently  blocked. 
Hydroelectric  plants  main  domestic  source;  natural  gas  supply 


4 


Armenia 


from  Russia  intermittent  because  of  pipeline  damage. 

Exports:  In  1990  worth  US$2.1  billion.  Principal  items  textiles, 
shoes,  carpets,  machines,  chemical  products,  processed  foods, 
and  metal  products.  Postcommunist  export  markets  shifted 
toward  Turkey  and  Iran,  but  traditional  ties  with  Russia  and 
Eastern  Europe  remained.  License  controls  eased  in  1992. 
Total  export  trade,  severely  constricted  by  blockade,  about 
US$135.6  million  in  1993. 

Imports:  In  1990  worth  US$2.8  billion.  Principal  items  light 
industrial  products,  industrial  raw  materials,  fuels,  and  energy. 
Principal  import  suppliers  Russia,  Turkmenistan,  Belarus, 
Ukraine,  and  Kazakhstan.  Nearly  all  energy  and  much  food 
imported. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Estimated  in  1992  as  US$137  million 
deficit. 

Exchange  Rate:  Dram  introduced  November  1993,  to  become 
exclusive  national  currency  early  1994.  May  1994  rate  about 
390  drams  per  US$1.  Second  national  unit,  luma  (100  to  the 
dram),  introduced  February  1994. 

Inflation:  Dram  devalued  as  Russian  ruble  devalued,  early 
1994,  against  United  States  dollar.  Prices  raised  in  steep 
periodic  increments,  including  30  percent  rise  March  1994. 
Prices  in  1993  rose  130  percent  as  fast  as  wages. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Highly  centralized  government  system,  with  no 
regional  authority.  Indexation  of  salaries  and  prices  and 
currency  devaluation  used  to  balance  supply  and  demand. 
Taxes  added  and  changed  1992-93  to  improve  national 
income. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Highways:  In  1991  about  11,300  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
10,500  hard-surface. 

Railroads:  In  1992  total  mainline  track  about  825  kilometers, 
none  of  which  standard  gauge.  International  lines  to 
Azerbaijan,  Georgia,  Iran,  and  Turkey.  Service  disrupted  in 
early  1990s. 

Civil  Aviation:  Ten  usable  airports,  six  with  hard-surface  run- 


5 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

ways.  Zvartnots  Airport,  near  Erevan,  only  airport  accom- 
modating large  jets.  State  Airlines  Company  of  Armenia 
national  airline. 

Inland  Waterways:  None. 

Ports:  None. 

Pipelines:  Natural  gas  pipeline  900  kilometers  in  1991;  service 
disrupted  in  early  1990s. 

Telecommunications:  Direct-dial  telephone  system  with  200 
circuits  and  international  service  in  1991.  Radio  and  television 
controlled  by  State  Committee  for  Television  and  Radio 
Broadcasting.  Armenian  and  Russian  television  broadcasts 
available  to  100  percent  of  population  via  International 
Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat)  satellite. 
Thirteen  radio  stations  broadcast  domestically  in  Armenian, 
Kurdish,  and  Russian. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  National  government  with  most  administrative 
powers.  Thirty-seven  districts  with  local  legislative  and 
executive  organs.  National  legislature  unicameral  Supreme 
Soviet  of  248  members.  Highest  executive  organ,  Council  of 
Ministers,  appointed  by  president  with  consent  of  prime 
minister,  who  is  named  by  president  with  consent  of 
parliament.  Presidency,  given  broad  emergency  powers  during 
Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  most  powerful  government  office. 
Legislative  process  cumbersome  and  fragmented,  delaying 
passage  of  new  constitution  and  other  vital  legislation.  As  of 
1994,  reform  of  Soviet-era  judicial  system  awaited  new 
constitution. 

Politics:  Since  independence  in  1991,  presidency,  most 
ministries,  and  parliamentary  plurality  held  by  members  of 
Armenian  Pannational  Movement.  Main  opposition  parties 
Liberal  Democratic  Party  and  Armenian  Revolutionary 
Federation.  First  multiparty  election  1991.  Many  minority 
parties  represented  in  parliament,  with  coalitions  on  specific 
issues. 

Foreign  Relations:  In  early  1990s,  foreign  policy  determined 
strongly  by  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict  with  Azerbaijan.  Some 
rapprochement  with  traditional  enemies  Turkey  and  Iran. 


6 


Armenia 


Limited  relations  established  with  Western  Europe.  Close  ties 
with  Russia  and  accords  with  other  members  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States.  Worldwide  Armenian 
diaspora  facilitates  foreign  support. 

International  Agreements  and  Memberships:  Member  of 
United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,  World  Bank, 
European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development,  and 
Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Armenian  Army  divided  into  army,  air  force, 
and  air  defense  forces;  total  forces  about  50,000,  including 
reserves.  In  1994  about  20,000  active  troops,  including  border 
guards  and  internal  security  troops,  supplied  mainly  by 
conscription.  About  2,000  troops  in  air  force  and  2,000  in  air 
defense  forces.  Reserve  call-up  available  in  crisis,  although 
reserve  support  weaker  in  postcommunist  era.  One  Russian 
division  remained  in  Armenia  in  1994. 

Major  Military  Units:  National  army  formed  in  1992  to 
emphasize  maneuverability  and  response  to  attack.  Highest 
organizational  level  brigade,  each  with  1,500  to  2,500  troops 
and  divided  into  three  or  four  battalions.  Air  defense  forces 
reinvigorated  and  new  military  aviation  program  established  in 
early  1990s.  Most  of  two  Russian  motorized  divisions 
transferred  to  Armenian  control  in  1992.  Much  equipment 
obtained  from  Russian  units  formerly  stationed  in  Armenia. 

Military  Budget:  Estimated  in  1992  at  US$33.8  million. 

Internal  Security:  Run  by  State  Administration  for  National 
Security.  Border  troops  supplemented  by  Russian  forces  along 
Iranian  and  Turkish  borders.  Militia  used  as  regular  police 
force  of  somewhat  over  1,000  troops;  duties  include  drug 
detection.  Some  units  of  former  Committee  for  State  Security 
(KGB)  function  under  Armenian  control. 


7 


4 


)  Gyumri 

/ 


Spitak 


\  Echmiadzin 


Razdan. 


Erevan 


TURKEY 


-  International  boundary 

® 

National  capital 

© 

Populated  place 

NOTE 

Status  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 

under  negotiation  in  1994. 

0 

25         50  Kilometers 

0 

25                 50  Miles 

mm 


Boundary  representation 

'  45 


Figure  4.  Armenia,  1994 


8 


ARMENIAN  CIVILIZATION  HAD  its  beginnings  in  the  sixth 
century  B.C.  In  the  centuries  following,  the  Armenians  with- 
stood invasions  and  nomadic  migrations,  creating  a  unique  cul- 
ture that  blended  Iranian  social  and  political  structures  with 
Hellenic — and  later  Christian — literary  traditions.  For  two  mil- 
lennia, independent  Armenian  states  existed  sporadically  in 
the  region  between  the  northeastern  corner  of  the  Mediterra- 
nean Sea  and  the  Caucasus  Mountains,  until  the  last  medieval 
state  was  destroyed  in  the  fourteenth  century.  A  landlocked 
country  in  modern  times,  Armenia  was  the  smallest  Soviet 
republic  from  1920  until  the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1991  (see  fig.  4).  The  future  of  an  independent  Armenia  is 
clouded  by  limited  natural  resources  and  the  prospect  that  the 
military  struggle  to  unite  the  Armenians  of  Azerbaijan's 
Nagorno-Karabakh  Autonomous  Region  with  the  Republic  of 
Armenia  will  be  a  long  one. 

Historical  Background 

The  Armenians  are  an  ancient  people  who  speak  an 
Indo-European  language  and  have  traditionally  inhabited  the 
border  regions  common  to  modern  Armenia,  Iran,  and  Tur- 
key. They  call  themselves  hai  (from  the  name  of  Hayk,  a  leg- 
endary hero)  and  their  country  Haiastan.  Their  neighbors  to 
the  north,  the  Georgians,  call  them  somekhi,  but  most  of  the 
rest  of  the  world  follows  the  usage  of  the  ancient  Greeks  and 
refers  to  them  as  Armenians,  a  term  derived  according  to  leg- 
end from  the  Armen  tribe.  Thus  the  Russian  word  is  armianin, 
and  the  Turkish  is  ermeni. 

The  Ancient  Period 

People  first  settled  what  is  now  Armenia  in  about  6000  B.C. 
The  first  major  state  in  the  region  was  the  kingdom  of  Urartu, 
which  appeared  around  Lake  Van  in  the  thirteenth  century 
B.C.  and  reached  its  peak  in  the  ninth  century  B.C.  Shortly 
after  the  fall  of  Urartu  to  the  Assyrians,  the  Indo- 
European-speaking  proto-Armenians  migrated,  probably  from 
the  west,  onto  the  Armenian  Plateau  and  mingled  with  the 
local  people  of  the  Hurrian  civilization,  which  at  that  time 
extended  into  Anatolia  (present-day  Asian  Turkey)  from  its 
center  in  Mesopotamia.  Greek  historians  first  mentioned  the 


9 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Armenians  in  the  mid-sixth  century  B.C.  Ruled  for  many  centu- 
ries by  the  Persians,  Armenia  became  a  buffer  state  between 
the  Greeks  and  Romans  to  the  west  and  the  Persians  and  Arabs 
of  the  Middle  East.  It  reached  its  greatest  size  and  influence 
under  King  Tigran  II,  also  known  as  Tigranes  or  Tigran  the 
Great  (r.  95-55  B.C.).  During  his  reign,  Armenia  stretched 
from  the  Mediterranean  Sea  northeast  to  the  Mtkvari  River 
(called  the  Kura  in  Azerbaijan)  in  present-day  Georgia  (see  fig. 
5).  Tigran  and  his  son,  Artavazd  II,  made  Armenia  a  center  of 
Hellenic  culture  during  their  reigns. 

By  30  B.C.,  Rome  conquered  the  Armenian  Empire,  and  for 
the  next  200  years  Armenia  often  was  a  pawn  of  the  Romans  in 
campaigns  against  their  Central  Asian  enemies,  the  Parthians. 
However,  a  new  dynasty,  the  Arsacids,  took  power  in  Armenia 
in  A.D.  53  under  the  Parthian  king,  Tiridates  I,  who  defeated 
Roman  forces  in  A.D.  62.  Rome's  Emperor  Nero  then  concili- 
ated the  Parthians  by  personally  crowning  Tiridates  king  of 
Armenia.  For  much  of  its  subsequent  history,  Armenia  was  not 
united  under  a  single  sovereign  but  was  usually  divided 
between  empires  and  among  local  Armenian  rulers. 

Early  Christianity 

After  contact  with  centers  of  early  Christianity  at  Antioch 
and  Edessa,  Armenia  accepted  Christianity  as  its  state  religion 
in  A.D.  306  (the  traditional  date — the  actual  date  may  have 
been  as  late  as  A.D.  314),  following  miracles  said  to  have  been 
performed  by  Saint  Gregory  the  Illuminator,  son  of  a  Parthian 
nobleman.  Thus  Armenians  claim  that  Tiridates  III  (A.D.  238- 
314)  was  the  first  ruler  to  officially  Christianize  his  people,  his 
conversion  predating  the  conventional  date  (A.D.  312)  of  Con- 
stantine  the  Great's  legalization  of  Christianity  on  behalf  of  the 
Roman  Empire. 

Early  in  the  fifth  century  A.D.,  Saint  Mesrop,  also  known  as 
Mashtots,  devised  an  alphabet  for  the  Armenian  language,  and 
religious  and  historical  works  began  to  appear  as  part  of  the 
effort  to  consolidate  the  influence  of  Christianity.  For  the  next 
two  centuries,  political  unrest  paralleled  the  exceptional  devel- 
opment of  literary  and  religious  life  that  became  known  as  the 
first  golden  age  of  Armenia.  In  several  administrative  forms, 
Armenia  remained  part  of  the  Byzantine  Empire  until  the  mid- 
seventh  century.  In  A.D.  653,  the  empire,  finding  the  region 
difficult  to  govern,  ceded  Armenia  to  the  Arabs.  In  A.D.  806, 


10 


Armenia 


the  Arabs  established  the  noble  Bagratid  family  as  governors, 
and  later  kings,  of  a  semiautonomous  Armenian  state. 

The  Middle  Ages 

Particularly  under  Bagratid  kings  Ashot  I  (also  known  as 
Ashot  the  Great  or  Ashot  V,  r.  A.D.  862-90)  and  Ashot  III  (r. 
A.D.  952-77),  a  flourishing  of  art  and  literature  accompanied  a 
second  golden  age  of  Armenian  history.  The  relative  prosperity 
of  other  kingdoms  in  the  region  enabled  the  Armenians  to 
develop  their  culture  while  remaining  segmented  among  juris- 
dictions of  varying  degrees  of  autonomy  granted  by  the  Arabs. 
Then,  after  eleventh-century  invasions  from  the  west  by  the 
Byzantine  Greeks  and  from  the  east  by  the  Seljuk  Turks,  the 
independent  kingdoms  in  Armenia  proper  collapsed,  and  a 
new  Armenian  state,  the  kingdom  of  Lesser  Armenia,  formed 
in  Cilicia  along  the  northeasternmost  shore  of  the  Mediterra- 
nean Sea.  As  an  ally  of  the  kingdoms  set  up  by  the  European 
armies  of  the  Crusades,  Cilician  Armenia  fought  against  the  ris- 
ing Muslim  threat  on  behalf  of  the  Christian  nations  of  Europe 
until  internal  rebellions  and  court  intrigue  brought  its  down- 
fall, at  the  hands  of  the  Central  Asian  Mamluk  Turks  in  1375. 
Cilician  Armenia  left  notable  monuments  of  art,  literature,  the- 
ology, and  jurisprudence.  It  also  served  as  the  door  through 
which  Armenians  began  emigrating  to  points  west,  notably 
Cyprus,  Marseilles,  Cairo,  Venice,  and  even  Holland. 

The  Mamluks  controlled  Cilician  Armenia  until  the  Otto- 
man Turks  conquered  the  region  in  the  sixteenth  century. 
Meanwhile,  the  Ottoman  Turks  and  the  Persians  divided  Cau- 
casian Armenia  to  the  northeast  between  the  sixteenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries.  The  Persians  dominated  the  area  of  mod- 
ern Armenia,  around  Lake  Sevan  and  the  city  of  Erevan.  From 
the  fifteenth  century  until  the  early  twentieth  century,  most 
Armenians  were  ruled  by  the  Ottoman  Turks  through  the  millet 
(see  Glossary)  system,  which  recognized  the  ecclesiastical 
authority  of  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church  over  the  Arme- 
nian people. 

Between  Russia  and  Turkey 

Beginning  in  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Russian  Empire 
played  a  growing  role  in  determining  the  fate  of  the  Arme- 
nians, although  those  in  Anatolia  remained  under  Turkish  con- 
trol, with  tragic  consequences  that  would  endure  well  into  the 
twentieth  century. 


11 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


0        100       200       300       400  Kilometers 


0  100  200  300  Miles 

  f  ZZL 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  David  Marshall  Lang,  Armenia:  Cradle  of 
Civilization,  London,  1980,  132. 

Figure  5.  The  Empire  of  Tigran  the  Great,  ca.  65  B.  C. 

Russian  Influence  Expands 

In  the  eighteenth  century,  Transcaucasia  (the  region 
including  the  Greater  Caucasus  mountain  range  as  well  as  the 
lands  to  the  south  and  west)  became  the  object  of  a 
military-political  struggle  among  three  empires:  Ottoman  Tur- 
key, tsarist  Russia,  and  Safavid  Persia.  In  1828  Russia  defeated 
Persia  and  annexed  the  area  around  Erevan,  bringing  thou- 
sands of  Armenians  into  the  Russian  Empire.  In  the  next  half- 
century,  three  related  processes  began  to  intensify  the  political 
and  national  consciousness  of  the  ethnic  and  religious  commu- 
nities of  the  Caucasus  region:  the  imposition  of  tsarist  rule;  the 
rise  of  a  market  and  capitalist  economy;  and  the  emergence  of 
secular  national  intelligentsias.  Tsarism  brought  Armenians 
from  Russia  and  from  the  former  Persian  provinces  under  a 


12 


Armenia 


single  legal  order.  The  tsarist  system  also  brought  relative  peace 
and  security  by  fostering  commerce  and  industry,  the  growth  of 
towns,  and  the  building  of  railroads,  thus  gradually  ending  the 
isolation  of  many  villages. 

In  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  a  major  movement  toward 
centralization  and  reform,  called  the  Tanzimat,  swept  through 
the  Ottoman  Empire,  whose  authority  had  been  eroded  by  cor- 
ruption and  delegation  of  control  to  local  fiefdoms.  Armenian 
subjects  benefited  somewhat  from  these  reforms;  for  instance, 
in  1863  a  special  Armenian  constitution  was  granted.  When  the 
reform  movement  was  ended  in  the  1870s  by  reactionary  fac- 
tions, however,  Ottoman  policy  toward  subject  nationalities 
became  less  tolerant,  and  the  situation  of  the  Armenians  in  the 
empire  began  to  deteriorate  rapidly. 

National  Self-Awareness 

The  Armenians  themselves  changed  dramatically  in  the 
mid-nineteenth  century.  An  intellectual  awakening  influenced 
by  Western  and  Russian  ideas,  a  new  interest  in  Armenian  his- 
tory, and  an  increase  in  social  interaction  created  a  sense  of 
secular  nationality  among  many  Armenians.  Instead  of  conceiv- 
ing of  themselves  solely  as  a  religious  community,  Armenians — 
especially  the  urban  middle  class — began  to  feel  closer  kinship 
with  Christian  Europe  and  greater  alienation  from  the  Muslim 
peoples  among  whom  they  lived. 

Lacking  faith  in  reform  within  the  empire,  Armenian  lead- 
ers began  to  appeal  to  the  European  powers  for  assistance.  In 
1878  Armenian  delegates  appeared  at  the  Congress  of  Berlin, 
where  the  European  powers  were  negotiating  the  disposition  of 
Ottoman  territories.  Although  Armenian  requests  for  Euro- 
pean protection  went  largely  unanswered  in  Berlin,  the  "Arme- 
nian question"  became  a  point  of  contention  in  the  complex 
European  diplomacy  of  the  late  nineteenth  century,  with  Rus- 
sia and  Britain  acting  as  the  chief  sponsors  of  Armenian  inter- 
ests on  various  issues. 

The  Armenian  independence  movement  began  as  agitation 
on  behalf  of  liberal  democracy  by  writers,  journalists,  and 
teachers.  But  by  the  last  decade  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
moderate  nationalist  intellectuals  had  been  pushed  aside  by 
younger,  more  radical  socialists.  Armenian  revolutionary  par- 
ties, founded  in  the  early  1890s  in  Russia  and  Europe,  sent 
their  cadres  to  organize  in  Turkey.  Because  of  the 
self-destruction  of  one  major  party,  the  Social  Democratic 


13 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Hnchaks,  and  the  relative  isolation  of  the  liberals  and  the 
"internationalist"  Social  Democrats  in  the  cities  of  Transcauca- 
sia, the  more  nationalist  of  the  socialist  parties,  the  Armenian 
Revolutionary  Federation  (ARF,  also  known  as  the  Dashnak,  a 
shortened  form  of  its  Armenian  name),  emerged  by  the  early 
twentieth  century  as  the  only  real  contender  for  Armenian  loy- 
alties. The  ARF  favored  Armenian  autonomy  in  both  the  Rus- 
sian and  the  Ottoman  empires  rather  than  full  independence 
for  an  Armenia  in  which  Russian-  and  Ottoman-held  compo- 
nents would  be  unified. 

In  the  last  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Arme- 
nians' tendency  toward  Europeanization  antagonized  Turkish 
officials  and  encouraged  their  view  that  Armenians  were  a  for- 
eign, subversive  element  in  the  sultan's  realm.  By  1890  the 
rapid  growth  of  the  Kurdish  population  in  Anatolia,  combined 
with  the  immigration  of  Muslims  from  the  Balkans  and  the 
Caucasus,  had  made  the  Armenian  population  of  Anatolia  an 
increasingly  endangered  minority.  In  1895  Ottoman  suspicion 
of  the  westernized  Armenian  population  led  to  the  massacre  of 
300,000  Armenians  by  special  order  of  the  Ottoman  govern- 
ment. 

Meanwhile,  on  the  other  side  of  the  Russian  border,  Arme- 
nian churches  and  schools  were  closed  and  church  property 
was  confiscated  in  1903.  Tatars  massacred  Armenians  in  several 
towns  and  cities  in  1905,  and  fifty-two  Armenian  nationalist 
leaders  in  Russia  were  tried  en  masse  for  underground  activi- 
ties in  1912. 

The  Young  Turks 

The  Armenian  population  that  remained  in  the  Ottoman 
Empire  after  the  1895  massacre  supported  the  1908  revolution 
of  the  Committee  of  Union  and  Progress,  better  known  as  the 
Young  Turks,  who  promised  liberal  treatment  of  ethnic  minori- 
ties. However,  after  its  revolution  succeeded,  the  Young  Turk 
government  plotted  elimination  of  the  Armenians,  who  were  a 
significant  obstacle  to  the  regime's  evolving  nationalist  agenda. 

In  the  early  stages  of  World  War  I,  Russian  armies  advanced 
on  Turkey  from  the  north,  and  the  British  attempted  an  inva- 
sion from  the  Mediterranean.  Citing  the  threat  of  internal 
rebellion,  the  Ottoman  government  ordered  large-scale  round- 
ups, deportations,  and  systematic  torture  and  murder  of  Arme- 
nians beginning  in  the  spring  of  1915.  Estimates  vary  from 
600,000  to  2  million  deaths  out  of  the  prewar  population  of 


14 


Armenia 


about  3  million  Armenians.  By  1917  fewer  than  200,000  Arme- 
nians remained  in  Turkey. 

Whatever  the  exact  dimensions  of  the  genocide,  Armenians 
suffered  a  demographic  disaster  that  shifted  the  center  of  the 
Armenian  population  from  the  heartland  of  historical  Armenia 
to  the  relatively  safer  eastern  regions  held  by  the  Russians.  Tens 
of  thousands  of  refugees  fled  to  the  Caucasus  with  the  retreat- 
ing Russian  armies,  and  the  cities  of  Baku  and  Tbilisi  filled  with 
Armenians  from  Turkey.  Ethnic  tensions  rose  in  Transcaucasia 
as  the  new  immigrants  added  to  the  pressures  on  the  limited 
resources  of  the  collapsing  Russian  Empire. 

World  War  I  and  Its  Consequences 

As  was  the  case  for  most  of  Europe,  World  War  I  changed 
Armenia's  geopolitical  situation.  The  war  also  precipitated  an 
ethnic  disaster  of  rare  magnitude  and  brought  the  Armenians 
who  remained  in  their  native  territory  into  a  new  type  of 
empire. 

Postwar  Realignment 

Between  1915  and  1917,  Russia  occupied  virtually  the  entire 
Armenian  part  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Then  in  October  1917, 
the  Bolshevik  victory  in  Russia  ended  that  country's  involve- 
ment in  World  War  I,  and  Russian  troops  left  the  Caucasus.  In 
the  vacuum  that  remained,  the  Armenians  first  joined  a  Trans- 
caucasian  federation  with  Azerbaijan  and  Georgia,  both  of 
which,  however,  soon  proved  to  be  unreliable  partners.  The 
danger  posed  by  the  territorial  ambitions  of  the  Ottoman 
Turks  and  the  Azerbaijanis  finally  united  the  Caucasian  Arme- 
nian population  in  support  of  the  ARF  program  for  autonomy. 
In  May  1918,  an  independent  Armenian  republic  was  declared; 
its  armies  continued  to  fight  on  the  Allied  side  south  of  the 
Caucasus  until  the  Ottoman  Empire  surrendered  in  October 
1918.  The  independent  republic  endured  from  May  1918  to 
December  1920.  In  the  new  government,  ARF  leaders  R.I.  Ka- 
chazuni  and  A.I.  Khatisian  became  prime  minister  and  foreign 
minister,  respectively. 

The  Republic  of  Armenia  included  the  northeastern  part  of 
present-day  eastern  Turkey,  west  along  the  Black  Sea  coast  past 
Trabzon  and  southwest  past  Lake  Van.  But  Armenia's  precari- 
ous independence  was  threatened  from  within  by  the  terrible 
economic  conditions  that  followed  the  war  in  the  former  Otto- 
man Empire  and,  by  1920,  by  the  territorial  ambitions  of  Soviet 


15 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Russia  and  the  nationalist  Turks  under  Kemal  Ataturk.  Ataturk 
had  rehabilitated  Turkey  rapidly  under  a  new  democratic  sys- 
tem, but  the  ruling  party  still  hoped  to  create  a  larger  state  by 
taking  territory  in  western  Armenia  from  which  Armenians 
had  been  driven.  In  defending  its  independence,  the  Republic 
of  Armenia  waited  in  vain,  however,  for  the  material  and  mili- 
tary aid  promised  at  the  Paris  Peace  Conference  in  1919.  The 
Allies'  memories  of  the  1915  massacre  faded  as  war  weariness 
and  isolationism  dominated  their  foreign  policy. 

In  agreeing  to  the  1920  Treaty  of  Sevres,  the  World  War  I 
Allies  and  Turkey  recognized  Armenian  independence;  as  part 
of  the  treaty,  Armenia  received  some  disputed  territory  in  what 
had  been  the  Ottoman  Empire.  However,  most  of  western 
Armenia  remained  in  Turkish  hands.  Eastern  Armenia,  rav- 
aged by  warfare,  migration,  and  disease,  had  an  Armenian  pop- 
ulation of  only  720,000  by  1920.  Caught  between  the  advancing 
Turks  and  the  Red  Army,  which  had  already  occupied  neigh- 
boring Azerbaijan,  in  November  1920  the  ARF  government 
made  a  political  agreement  with  the  communists  to  enter  a  coa- 
lition government.  The  Treaty  of  Aleksandropol',  signed  by  this 
government  with  Turkey  in  1920,  returned  Armenia's  northern 
Kars  district  to  Turkey  and  repudiated  the  existence  of  Arme- 
nian populations  in  newly  expanded  Turkey. 

Into  the  Soviet  Union 

In  1922  Armenia  was  combined  with  Azerbaijan  and  Geor- 
gia to  form  the  Transcaucasian  Soviet  Federated  Socialist 
Republic  (TSFSR),  which  was  a  single  republic  of  the  Soviet 
Union  until  the  federation  was  dissolved  and  each  part  given 
republic  status  in  1936.  When  the  TSFSR  was  formed,  the  new 
Soviet  government  in  the  Armenian  capital  of  Erevan  ruled 
over  a  shrunken  country  with  a  devastated  economy  and  few 
resources  with  which  to  feed  the  populace  and  rebuild  itself.  In 
integrating  their  republic  into  the  newly  forming  Soviet  Union, 
Armenian  communists  surrendered  the  sovereignty  that  the 
independent  republic  had  enjoyed  briefly.  Although  it  elimi- 
nated rival  political  parties  and  restricted  the  range  of  public 
expression,  the  new  government  promoted  Armenian  culture 
and  education,  invited  artists  and  intellectuals  from  abroad  to 
return  to  Armenia,  and  managed  to  create  an  environment  of 
greater  security  and  material  well-being  than  Armenians  had 
known  since  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I. 


16 


Folk  dancers  celebrating  Armenian  Independence  Day 

(May  28,  1918)  in  Erevan 
Courtesy  Azarian  Churukian 

The  Communist  Era 

During  the  rule  of  Joseph  V.  Stalin  (in  power  1926-53), 
Armenian  society  and  its  economy  were  changed  dramatically 
by  Moscow  policy  makers.  In  a  period  of  twenty-five  years, 
Armenia  was  industrialized  and  educated  under  strictly  pre- 
scribed conditions,  and  nationalism  was  harshly  suppressed. 
After  Stalin's  death,  Moscow  allowed  greater  expression  of 
national  feeling,  but  the  corruption  endemic  in  communist 
rule  continued  until  the  very  end  in  1991.  The  last  years  of 
communism  also  brought  disillusionment  in  what  had  been 
one  of  the  most  loyal  republics  in  the  Soviet  Union  until  the 
late  1980s. 

Stalinist  Restructuring 

Stalin's  radical  restructuring  of  the  Soviet  economic  and 
political  systems  at  the  end  of  the  1920s  ended  the  brief  period 
of  moderate  rule  and  mixed  economy  under  what  was  known 
as  the  New  Economic  Policy  (see  Modern  Economic  History, 
this  ch.).  Under  Stalin  the  Communist  Party  of  Armenia  (CPA) 
used  police  terror  to  strengthen  its  political  hold  on  the  popu- 


17 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

lation  and  suppress  all  expressions  of  nationalism.  At  the 
height  of  the  Great  Terror  orchestrated  by  Stalin  in  1936-37, 
the  ranks  of  CPA  leaders  and  intellectuals  were  decimated  by 
Lavrenti  Beria,  political  commissar  for  the  Transcaucasian 
republics. 

Stalin's  enforced  social  and  economic  engineering 
improved  literacy  and  education  and  built  communications 
and  industrial  infrastructures  where  virtually  none  had  existed 
in  tsarist  times.  As  they  emerged  from  the  Stalin  era  in  the 
1950s,  Armenians  were  more  mobile,  better  educated,  and 
ready  to  benefit  from  the  less  repressive  policies  of  Stalin's  suc- 
cessor, Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  (in  power  1953-64).  The  years  of 
industrialization  had  promoted  an  upward  social  mobility 
through  which  peasants  became  workers;  workers  became  fore- 
men or  managers;  and  managers  became  party  and  state  offi- 
cials. 

Communism  after  Stalin 

After  Stalin's  death  in  1953,  Moscow  granted  the  republic 
more  autonomy  in  decision  making,  which  meant  that  the  local 
communist  elite  increased  its  power  and  became  entrenched 
in  Armenian  politics  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  Although  overt 
political  opposition  remained  tightly  restricted,  expressions  of 
moderate  nationalism  were  viewed  with  greater  tolerance.  Stat- 
ues of  Armenian  national  heroes  were  erected,  including  one 
of  Saint  Vartan,  the  fifth-century  defender  of  Armenian  Chris- 
tianity. 

Even  as  Armenia  continued  its  transformation  from  a  basi- 
cally agrarian  nation  to  an  industrial,  urban  society — by  the 
early  1980s,  only  a  third  of  Armenians  lived  in  the  countryside- 
the  ruling  elite  remained  largely  unchanged.  As  a  result,  cor- 
ruption and  favoritism  spread,  and  an  illegal  "second  econ- 
omy" of  black  markets  and  bribery  flourished.  In  1974  Moscow 
sent  a  young  engineer,  Karen  Demirchian,  to  Erevan  to  clean 
up  the  old  party  apparatus,  but  the  new  party  chief  soon 
accommodated  himself  to  the  corrupt  political  system  he  had 
inherited. 

The  New  Nationalism 

Three  issues  combined  by  1988  to  stimulate  a  broad-based 
Armenian  nationalist  movement.  First,  the  urbanization  and 
industrialization  of  Armenia  had  brought  severe  ecological 
problems,  the  most  threatening  of  which  was  posed  by  a 


18 


Armenia 


nuclear  power  plant  at  Metsamor,  west  of  Erevan.  Second, 
many  Armenians  were  angered  by  the  pervasive  corruption 
and  arrogance  of  the  communist  elite,  which  had  become 
entrenched  as  a  privileged  ruling  class.  Third  and  most  imme- 
diate, Armenians  were  increasingly  concerned  about  the  status 
of  Nagorno-Karabakh,  an  autonomous  region  of  Azerbaijan 
having  nearly  200,000  Armenians  living  under  Azerbaijani  rule, 
isolated  from  mainstream  Armenian  culture. 

Control  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  (the  conventional  geo- 
graphic term  is  based  on  the  Russian  for  the  phrase  "mountain- 
ous Karabakh")  had  been  contested  by  the  briefly  independent 
republics  of  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  after  World  War  I.  In 
1924  the  Soviet  government  designated  the  region  an  autono- 
mous region  under  Azerbaijani  jurisdiction  within  the  TSFSR. 
At  the  time,  94.4  percent  of  the  estimated  131,500  people  in 
the  district  were  Armenian.  Between  1923  and  1979,  the  Arme- 
nian population  of  the  enclave  dropped  by  about  1,000,  com- 
prising only  about  76  percent  of  the  population  by  the  end  of 
the  period.  In  the  same  period,  the  Azerbaijani  population 
quintupled  to  37,000,  or  nearly  24  percent  of  the  region's  pop- 
ulation. Armenians  feared  that  their  demographic  decline  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh  would  replicate  the  fate  of  another  histori- 
cally Armenian  region,  Nakhichevan,  which  the  Soviet  Union 
had  designated  an  autonomous  republic  under  Azerbaijani 
administration  in  1924.  In  Nakhichevan  the  number  of  Arme- 
nians had  declined  from  about  15,600  (15  percent  of  the  total) 
in  1926  to  about  3,000  (1.4  percent  of  the  total)  in  1979,  while 
in  the  same  period  immigration  and  a  higher  birth  rate  had 
increased  the  Azerbaijani  population  from  about  85,400  (85 
percent)  to  230,000,  or  nearly  96  percent  of  the  total. 

In  addition  to  fearing  the  loss  of  their  numerical  superiority, 
Armenians  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  resented  restrictions  on  the 
development  of  the  Armenian  language  and  culture  in  the 
region.  Although  the  Armenians  generally  lived  better  than 
Azerbaijanis  in  neighboring  districts,  their  standard  of  living 
was  not  as  high  as  that  of  their  countrymen  in  Armenia.  Hostile 
to  the  Azerbaijanis,  whom  they  blamed  for  their  social  and  cul- 
tural problems,  the  vast  majority  of  Karabakh  Armenians  pre- 
ferred to  learn  Russian  rather  than  Azerbaijani,  the  language 
of  Azerbaijan.  As  early  as  the  1960s,  clashes  occurred  between 
the  Karabakh  Armenians  and  the  Azerbaijanis,  and  Armenian 
intellectuals  petitioned  Moscow  for  redress  of  their  situation  in 
N  agor  no-Kar  abakh . 


19 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

A  series  of  escalating  attacks  and  reprisals  between  the  two 
sides  began  in  early  1988.  Taking  advantage  of  the  greater  free- 
dom introduced  by  the  glasnost  (see  Glossary)  and  perestroika 
(see  Glossary)  policies  of  Soviet  leader  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev 
(in  power  1985-91)  in  the  late  1980s,  Armenians  held  mass 
demonstrations  in  favor  of  uniting  Nagorno-Karabakh  with 
Armenia.  In  response  to  rumored  Armenian  demands,  Azer- 
baijanis  began  fleeing  the  region.  A  two-day  rampage  in  the 
industrial  town  of  Sumgait,  northwest  of  Baku,  resulted  in  the 
deaths  of  more  than  100  Armenians.  During  1988,  while  Mos- 
cow hesitated  to  take  decisive  action,  Armenians  grew  increas- 
ingly disillusioned  with  Gorbachev's  programs,  and 
Azerbaijanis  sought  to  protect  their  interests  by  organizing  a 
powerful  anti-Armenian  nationalist  movement. 

Nagorno-Karabakh  and  Independence 

The  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  (often  called  simply 
Karabakh)  served  as  a  catalyst  for  nationalist  movements  fol- 
lowing the  precipitous  decline  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  late 
1980s  (see  fig.  3).  In  the  early  1990s,  the  struggle  defied  all 
negotiating  efforts  of  the  West  and  Russia. 

Karabakh  as  a  National  Issue 

The  protests  of  the  Armenians  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 
against  Azerbaijani  rule  began  in  the  spirit  of  perestroika,  but 
the  movement  evolved  quickly  into  a  political  organization,  the 
Karabakh  Committee,  a  broad  anticommunist  coalition  for 
democracy  and  national  sovereignty.  In  the  confusion  follow- 
ing the  earthquake  that  devastated  northern  Armenia  in 
December  1988,  Soviet  authorities  tried  to  stem  the  growing 
opposition  to  their  rule  by  arresting  the  leaders  of  the  commit- 
tee. The  attempt  by  the  CPA  to  rule  in  Armenia  without  sup- 
port from  Armenian  nationalists  only  worsened  the  political 
crisis.  In  March  1989,  many  voters  boycotted  the  general  elec- 
tions for  the  Soviet  Union's  Congress  of  People's  Deputies. 
Massive  demonstrations  were  held  to  demand  the  release  of 
the  members  of  the  committee,  and,  in  the  elections  to  the 
Armenian  Supreme  Soviet,  the  legislative  body  of  the  republic, 
in  May,  Armenians  chose  delegates  identified  with  the  Kara- 
bakh cause.  At  that  time,  the  flag  of  independent  Armenia  was 
flown  for  the  first  time  since  1920.  The  release  of  the  Karabakh 
Committee  followed  the  1989  election;  for  the  next  six  months, 


20 


Armenia 


the  nationalist  movement  and  the  Armenian  communist  lead- 
ership worked  as  uncomfortable  allies  on  the  Karabakh  issue. 

Gorbachev's  1989  proposal  for  enhanced  autonomy  for 
Nagorno-Karabakh  within  Azerbaijan  satisfied  neither  Arme- 
nians nor  Azerbaijanis,  and  a  long  and  inconclusive  conflict 
erupted  between  the  two  peoples.  In  September  1989,  Azer- 
baijan began  an  economic  blockade  of  Armenia's  vital  fuel  and 
supply  lines  through  its  territory,  which  until  that  time  had  car- 
ried about  90  percent  of  Armenia's  imports  from  the  other 
Soviet  republics.  In  June  1989,  numerous  unofficial  nationalist 
organizations  joined  together  to  form  the  Armenian  Pan- 
national  Movement  (APM),  to  which  the  Armenian  govern- 
ment granted  official  recognition. 

The  Karabakh  Crisis  Escalates,  1989 

The  Azerbaijani-Armenian  conflict  escalated  steadily  in  the 
summer  and  fall  of  1989.  Both  the  APM  and  the  newly  formed 
Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  (APF)  called  for  abolition  of  the 
Special  Administrative  Committee  that  Gorbachev  had  estab- 
lished to  manage  Nagorno-Karabakh.  The  Armenians  held  to 
their  position  that  the  region  must  become  part  of  Armenia, 
and  radical  Azerbaijanis  called  for  abolition  of  Karabakh 
autonomy.  As  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Azerbaijanis  demon- 
strated in  Baku,  their  government  further  restricted  the  flow  of 
goods  and  fuel  into  Karabakh  and  Armenia.  In  August  1989, 
Karabakh  Armenians  responded  by  electing  their  own  National 
Council,  which  declared  the  secession  of  Karabakh  from  Azer- 
baijan and  its  merger  with  Armenia.  The  Armenian  Supreme 
Soviet  then  declared  the  Karabakh  National  Council  the  sole 
legitimate  representative  of  the  Karabakh  people.  The  Azer- 
baijani Supreme  Soviet  responded  by  abrogating  the  autonomy 
of  both  Karabakh  and  Nakhichevan. 

Although  the  declarations  and  counter-declarations  of  mid- 
1989  were  ultimately  declared  invalid  by  the  Supreme  Soviet  of 
the  Soviet  Union,  and  although  both  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan 
continued  to  be  governed  by  communist  parties,  neither 
republic  was  willing  to  obey  Moscow's  directives  on  the  Kara- 
bakh issue.  In  November  1989,  in  frustration  at  its  inability  to 
bring  the  parties  together,  the  Supreme  Soviet  of  the  Soviet 
Union  abolished  the  Special  Administrative  Committee  and 
returned  direct  control  of  Karabakh  to  Azerbaijan.  Rejecting 
Moscow's  decision,  the  Armenian  Supreme  Soviet  declared 
Karabakh  a  part  of  Armenia  in  December  1989. 


21 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

After  more  than  two  years  of  the  Karabakh  conflict,  Arme- 
nia had  gone  from  being  one  of  the  most  loyal  Soviet  republics 
to  complete  loss  of  confidence  in  Moscow.  Gorbachev's  unwill- 
ingness to  grant  Karabakh  to  Armenia  and  his  failure  to  end 
the  blockade  convinced  Armenians  that  the  Kremlin  consid- 
ered it  politically  advantageous  to  back  the  more  numerous 
Muslims.  Even  the  invasion  of  Azerbaijan  by  Soviet  troops  in 
January  1990,  ostensibly  to  stop  pogroms  against  Armenians  in 
Baku,  failed  to  dampen  the  growing  anti-Soviet  mood  among 
Armenians  (see  Within  the  Soviet  Union,  ch.  2). 

A  New  Political  Climate 

The  resignation  of  Suren  Harutiunian  as  first  secretary  of 
the  CPA  in  April  1990  and  the  triumph  of  the  APM  in  the  elec- 
tions of  the  spring  and  summer  of  1990  signaled  the  end  of  the 
old  party  elite  and  the  rise  of  a  new  Armenian  political  class 
that  had  matured  during  the  two  years  of  tensions  over  Kara- 
bakh. The  newly  elected  Armenian  parliament  (which  retained 
the  Soviet-era  name  Supreme  Soviet  or  Supreme  Council) 
chose  Levon  Ter-Petrosian  instead  of  the  new  CPA  first  secre- 
tary as  its  chairman,  and  hence  as  head  of  state  of  the  republic. 

With  the  APM  in  power  and  the  communists  in  opposition, 
the  transition  from  Soviet-style  government  to  an  independent 
democratic  state  began  in  earnest.  The  new  government  faced 
a  nearly  complete  collapse  of  order  in  the  republic.  Buildings 
were  seized  by  armed  men  in  Erevan,  and  several  independent 
militia  groups  operated  in  Erevan  as  well  as  on  the  Azerbaijani 
frontier.  Frustrated  by  the  Azerbaijani  blockade  and  deter- 
mined to  defend  their  republic  and  Karabakh,  members  of 
Armenia's  Fidain  (whose  name  was  taken  from  an  Arabic  term 
literally  meaning  "one  who  sacrifices  himself  "  and  recalling 
the  Armenian  freedom  fighters  of  the  turn  of  the  century) 
raided  arsenals  and  police  stations  to  arm  themselves  for  the 
coming  battles.  In  July  Gorbachev  demanded  immediate  disar- 
mament of  the  Armenian  militias  and  threatened  military 
intervention  if  they  did  not  comply.  In  response,  Ter-Petro- 
sian's  government  itself  disarmed  the  independent  militias  and 
restored  order  in  Erevan. 

On  August  23,  1990,  Armenia  formally  declared  its  inten- 
tion to  become  sovereign  and  independent,  with  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  an  integral  part  of  what  now  would  be  known  as  the 
Republic  of  Armenia  rather  than  the  Armenian  Soviet  Socialist 
Republic.  The  Armenian  nation  was  defined  broadly  to  include 


22 


Armenia 


not  only  those  living  in  the  territory  of  the  republic  but  also  the 
worldwide  Armenian  emigre  population. 

In  redefining  Armenian  national  interests,  the  government 
acknowledged — but  temporarily  put  aside — the  painful  ques- 
tion of  Armenian  genocide,  having  in  mind  improved  relations 
with  traditional  enemies  Turkey  and  Iran.  This  policy 
prompted  strong  criticism  from  extreme  nationalist  groups 
that  wanted  to  recover  territory  lost  to  Turkey  in  World  War  I. 
The  CPA  was  also  vehemently  critical. 

Independence 

In  January  1991,  the  Armenian  Supreme  Soviet  decided  not 
to  participate  in  Gorbachev's  planned  referendum  on  preserv- 
ing the  Soviet  Union.  In  March  the  parliament  announced 
that,  instead,  the  republic  would  hold  its  own  referendum  in 
September,  in  compliance  with  the  procedure  outlined  in  the 
Soviet  constitution  for  a  republic  to  secede.  Although  literal 
compliance  would  mean  that  Armenia  would  not  be  fully  inde- 
pendent for  five  years  after  the  referendum,  Moscow  soon 
moved  to  change  Armenia's  course.  Without  notifying  the 
Armenian  government,  Moscow  sent  paratroopers  to  the 
republic  in  early  May,  ostensibly  to  protect  Soviet  defense 
installations  in  Armenia.  Ter-Petrosian's  official  statement  in 
reaction  characterized  the  move  as  a  virtual  declaration  of  war 
by  the  Soviet  Union. 

In  August  1991,  when  a  self-proclaimed  emergency  commit- 
tee attempted  to  overthrow  Gorbachev  and  take  control  in 
Moscow,  the  Armenian  government  refused  to  sanction  its 
actions.  Fearing  an  extension  of  the  Soviet  incursion  of  May, 
Ter-Petrosian  approached  the  Moscow  coup  very  cautiously. 
The  republic's  Defense  Committee  secretly  resolved  to  have 
the  Armenian  armed  forces  go  underground  and  wage  guer- 
rilla warfare.  Ter-Petrosian,  who  believed  that  Gorbachev's  per- 
sonal blunders,  indecisiveness,  and  concessions  to  conservative 
communists  were  to  blame  for  the  coup,  was  overjoyed  when 
the  conservatives  were  defeated.  But  the  coup  itself  convinced 
Armenians  of  the  need  to  move  out  of  the  Soviet  Union  as  rap- 
idly as  possible,  and  it  validated  Ter-Petrosian's  refusal  to  partic- 
ipate in  the  revival  of  the  Soviet  Union  advocated  by 
Gorbachev. 

Within  two  months  of  the  coup,  Armenians  went  to  the 
polls  twice.  In  September  1991,  over  99  percent  of  voters 
approved  the  republic's  commitment  to  independence.  The 


23 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

immediate  aftermath  of  that  vote  was  the  Armenian  Supreme 
Soviet's  declaration  of  full  independence,  on  September  23,  in 
disregard  of  the  constitution's  restraints  on  secession.  Then  in 
October,  Ter-Petrosian  was  elected  overwhelmingly  as  presi- 
dent of  the  republic.  He  now  had  a  popular  mandate  to  carry 
out  his  vision  of  Armenian  independence  and  self-sufficiency. 

As  political  changes  occurred  within  the  republic,  armed 
conflict  continued  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  during  1991.  Arme- 
nia officially  denied  supporting  the  "Nagorno-Karabakh 
defense  forces"  that  were  pushing  Azerbaijani  forces  out  of  the 
region;  Armenia  also  accused  the  Soviet  Union  of  supporting 
Azerbaijan  as  punishment  for  Armenia's  failure  to  sign  Gor- 
bachev's new  Union  Treaty.  In  turn,  Azerbaijan  called  Armenia 
an  aggressor  state  whose  national  policy  included  annexation 
of  Azerbaijani  territory. 

Postindependence  Armenia 

Two  immediate  tasks  facing  independent  Armenia  were 
rebuilding  its  devastated  economy  and  strengthening  its  fledg- 
ling democratic  institutions.  But  the  escalating  war  in  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  and  the  effective  blockade  of  the  republic  by  the 
Azerbaijanis  led  to  a  total  collapse  of  the  economy.  By  early 
1993,  the  government  seemed  helpless  before  mounting  eco- 
nomic and  political  problems.  The  last  remaining  oil  and  gas 
pipelines  through  neighboring  Georgia,  which  itself  was  being 
torn  by  civil  and  interethnic  war,  were  blown  up  by  saboteurs. 
To  survive  the  cold,  Armenians  in  Erevan  cut  down  the  city's 
trees,  and  plans  were  made  to  start  up  the  nuclear  power  plant 
at  Metsamor.  In  February  1993,  demonstrations  called  for  the 
resignation  of  the  government,  but  Ter-Petrosian  responded  by 
naming  a  new  cabinet  headed  by  Hrant  Bagratian. 

While  economic  and  political  conditions  deteriorated 
within  Armenia,  the  military  position  of  the  Armenians  in  the 
Karabakh  struggle  improved  dramatically.  Various  peace  nego- 
tiations sponsored  by  Iran,  Russia,  Turkey,  and  a  nine-nation 
group  from  the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (CSCE — see  Glossary)  had  begun  in  1991  and  sporadi- 
cally had  yielded  cease-fires  that  were  violated  almost  immedi- 
ately. In  the  spring  of  1992,  while  the  Azerbaijani  communists 
and  the  nationalist  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  fought  for  con- 
trol in  Baku,  Karabakh  Armenian  forces  occupied  most  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh,  took  the  old  capital,  Shusha,  and  drove  a 
corridor  through  the  Kurdish  area  around  Lachin  to  link 


24 


Armenia 


Nagorno-Karabakh  with  Armenia.  But  the  immediate  result  of 
this  victory  was  the  collapse  of  Russian-sponsored  peace  negoti- 
ations with  Azerbaijan  and  the  continuation  of  the  war. 

Beginning  a  counteroffensive  in  early  summer,  the  Azer- 
baijanis  recaptured  some  territory  and  created  thousands  of 
new  refugees  by  expelling  Armenians  from  the  villages  they 
took.  In  midsummer  this  new  phase  of  the  conflict  stimulated  a 
CSCE-sponsored  peace  conference,  but  Armenia  stymied 
progress  by  demanding  for  the  first  time  that  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh be  entirely  separate  from  Azerbaijan. 

By  the  end  of  1992,  the  sides  were  bogged  down  in  a  bloody 
stalemate.  After  clearing  Azerbaijani  forces  from  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  and  the  territory  between  Karabakh  and  Armenia, 
Armenian  troops  also  advanced  deep  into  Azerbaijan  proper — 
a  move  that  brought  condemnation  from  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  Security  Council  and  panic  in  Iran,  on  whose  borders 
Armenian  troops  had  arrived.  In  the  first  half  of  1993,  the 
Karabakh  Armenians  gained  more  Azerbaijani  territory, 
against  disorganized  opposition.  Azerbaijani  resistance  was 
weakened  by  the  confusion  surrounding  a  military  coup  that 
toppled  the  APF  government  in  Baku  and  returned  former 
communist  party  boss  Heydar  Aliyev  to  power. 

The  coup  reinvigorated  Russian  efforts  to  negotiate  a  peace 
under  the  complex  terms  of  the  three  parties  to  the  conflict: 
the  governments  of  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  and  the  increas- 
ingly independent  and  assertive  Karabakh  Armenians.  CSCE 
peace  proposals  were  uniformly  rejected  during  this  period. 
Although  Russia  seemed  poised  for  a  triumph  of  crisis  diplo- 
macy on  its  borders,  constant  negotiations  in  the  second  half  of 
1993  produced  only  intermittent  cease-fires.  At  the  end  of 
1993,  the  Karabakh  Armenians  were  able  to  negotiate  with  the 
presidents  of  Azerbaijan  and  Russia  from  a  position  of  power: 
they  retained  full  control  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  and  substantial 
parts  of  Azerbaijan  proper  (see  After  Communist  Rule,  ch.  2). 

Physical  Environment 

Armenia  is  located  in  southern  Transcaucasia,  the  region 
southwest  of  Russia  between  the  Black  Sea  and  the  Caspian 
Sea.  Modern  Armenia  occupies  part  of  historical  Armenia, 
whose  ancient  centers  were  in  the  valley  of  the  Aras  River  and 
the  region  around  Lake  Van  in  Turkey.  Armenia  is  bordered  on 
the  north  by  Georgia,  on  the  east  by  Azerbaijan,  on  the  south 


25 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

by  Iran,  on  the  southwest  by  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  and  on  the  west  by  Turkey  (see  fig.  1) . 

Topography  and  Drainage 

Twenty-five  million  years  ago,  a  geological  upheaval  pushed 
up  the  earth's  crust  to  form  the  Armenian  Plateau,  creating  the 
complex  topography  of  modern  Armenia  (see  fig.  2).  The 
Lesser  Caucasus  range  extends  through  northern  Armenia, 
runs  southeast  between  Lake  Sevan  and  Azerbaijan,  then 
passes  roughly  along  the  Armenian-Azerbaijani  border  to  Iran. 
Thus  situated,  the  mountains  make  travel  from  north  to  south 
difficult.  Geological  turmoil  continues  in  the  form  of  devastat- 
ing earthquakes,  which  have  plagued  Armenia.  In  December 
1988,  the  second  largest  city  in  the  republic,  Leninakan  (now 
Gyumri),  was  heavily  damaged  by  a  massive  quake  that  killed 
more  than  25,000  people. 

About  half  of  Armenia's  area  of  approximately  29,800 
square  kilometers  has  an  elevation  of  at  least  2,000  meters,  and 
only  3  percent  of  the  country  lies  below  650  meters.  The  lowest 
points  are  in  the  valleys  of  the  Aras  River  and  the  Debet  River 
in  the  far  north,  which  have  elevations  of  380  and  430  meters, 
respectively.  Elevations  in  the  Lesser  Caucasus  vary  between 
2,640  and  3,280  meters.  To  the  southwest  of  the  range  is  the 
Armenian  Plateau,  which  slopes  southwestward  toward  the 
Aras  River  on  the  Turkish  border.  The  plateau  is  masked  by 
intermediate  mountain  ranges  and  extinct  volcanoes.  The  larg- 
est of  these,  Mount  Aragats,  4,430  meters  high,  is  also  the  high- 
est point  in  Armenia.  Most  of  the  population  lives  in  the 
western  and  northwestern  parts  of  the  country,  where  the  two 
major  cities,  Erevan  and  Gyumri  (which  was  called  Aleksan- 
dropol'  during  the  tsarist  period),  are  located. 

The  valleys  of  the  Debet  and  Akstafa  rivers  form  the  chief 
routes  into  Armenia  from  the  north  as  they  pass  through  the 
mountains.  Lake  Sevan,  72.5  kilometers  across  at  its  widest 
point  and  376  kilometers  long,  is  by  far  the  largest  lake.  It  lies 
2,070  meters  above  sea  level  on  the  plateau.  Terrain  is  most 
rugged  in  the  extreme  southeast,  which  is  drained  by  the  Bar- 
gushat  River,  and  most  moderate  in  the  Aras  River  valley  to  the 
extreme  southwest.  Most  of  Armenia  is  drained  by  the  Aras  or 
its  tributary,  the  Razdan,  which  flows  from  Lake  Sevan.  The 
Aras  forms  most  of  Armenia's  border  with  Turkey  and  Iran  as 
well  as  the  border  between  Azerbaijan's  adjacent  Nakhichevan 
Autonomous  Republic  and  Iran. 


26 


Gyumri)  caused  by  1988  earthquake 
Courtesy  John  Filson 

Climate 

Temperatures  in  Armenia  generally  depend  upon  elevation. 
Mountain  formations  block  the  moderating  climadc  influences 
of  the  Mediterranean  Sea  and  the  Black  Sea,  creating  wide  sea- 
sonal variations.  On  the  Armenian  Plateau,  the  mean  midwin- 
ter temperature  is  0°C,  and  the  mean  midsummer  temperature 
exceeds  25°C.  Average  precipitation  ranges  from  250  millime- 
ters per  year  in  the  lower  Aras  River  valley  to  800  millimeters  at 
the  highest  altitudes.  Despite  the  harshness  of  winter  in  most 
parts,  the  fertility  of  the  plateau's  volcanic  soil  made  Armenia 
one  of  the  world's  earliest  sites  of  agricultural  activity. 

Environmental  Problems 

A  broad  public  discussion  of  environmental  problems 
began  in  the  mid-1980s,  when  the  first  "green"  groups  formed 
in  opposition  to  Erevan's  intense  industrial  air  pollution  and  to 
nuclear  power  generation  in  the  wake  of  the  1986  reactor 
explosion  at  Chernobyl'.  Environmental  issues  helped  form  the 
basis  of  the  nationalist  independence  movement  when  environ- 
mental demonstrations  subsequently  merged  with  those  for 
other  political  causes  in  the  late  1980s. 


27 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

In  the  postcommunist  era,  Armenia  faces  the  same  massive 
environmental  cleanup  that  confronts  the  other  former  Soviet 
republics  as  they  emerge  from  the  centralized  planning  sys- 
tem's disastrous  approach  to  resource  management.  Bv  1980 
the  infrequencv  of  sightings  of  Mount  Ararat,  which  looms 
about  sixty  kilometers  across  the  Turkish  border,  became  a 
symbol  of  worsening  air  pollution  in  Erevan. 

In  independent  .Armenia,,  environmental  issues  divide  soci- 
ety (and  scientists)  sharply  into  those  who  fear  "environmental 
time  bombs"  and  those  who  view  resumption  of  pollution- 
prone  industrial  operations  as  the  onlv  means  of  improving  the 
country's  economv,  In  the  earlv  1990s,  the  latter  group  blamed 
Armenia's  economic  woes  on  the  role  played  bv  the  former  in 
closing  major  industries. 

In  1994  three  national  environmental  laws  were  in  effect: 
the  Law  on  Environmental  Protection.,  the  Basic  Law  on  the 
Environment,  and  the  Law  on  Mineral  Resources.  The  Council 
of  Ministers.  Armenia's  cabinet,  includes  a  minister  of  the  envi- 
ronment. However,  no  comprehensive  environmental  protec- 
tion program  has  emerged,  and  decisions  on  environmental 
policy  have  been  made  on  an  ad  hoc  basis. 

Environmental  conditions  in  .Armenia  have  been  worsened 
bv  the  .Azerbaijani  blockade  of  supplies  and  electricity  from 
outside.  Under  blockade  conditions,  the  winters  of  1991-92. 
1992-93,  and  1993-94  brought  enormous  hardship  to  a  popu- 
lation lacking  heat  and  electric  power.  (The  large-scale  felling 
of  trees  for  fuel  during  the  winters  of  the  blockade  has  created 
another  environmental  crisis. )  The  results  of  the  blockade  and 
the  failure  of  diplomatic  efforts  to  lift  it  led  the  government  to 
propose  reconstruction  of  the  .Armenian  Atomic  Power  Station 
at  Metsamor,  which  was  closed  after  the  1988  earthquake 
because  of  its  location  in  an  earthquake-prone  area  and  which 
had  the  same  safety  problems  as  reactors  listed  as  dangerous  in 
Bulgaria.  Russia,  and  Slovakia.  .After  heated  debates  over  start- 
up continued  through  1993..  French  and  Russian  nuclear  con- 
sultants declared  operating"  conditions  basically  safe. 
Continuation  of  the  blockade  into  1994  gave  added  urgency  to 
the  decision  (see  Energy  this  ch.). 

Another  environmental  concern  is  a  significant  drop  in 
Lake  Sevan's  water  level  because  of  drawdowns  for  irrigation 
and  the  diversion  of  water  to  hydroelectric  plants  to  compen- 
sate for  the  electric  power  lost  through  the  inactivity  of  the 
nuclear  plant  at  Metsamor.  This  crisis  was  addressed  in  1992-93 


28 


Armenia 


by  construction  of  a  tunnel  to  divert  water  into  the  lake  from 
the  Arpa  River.  Engineers  estimated  that  once  the  project  is  fin- 
ished, the  tunnel  will  allow  500  million  cubic  meters  of  water  to 
be  drawn  from  the  lake  annually,  while  maintaining  a  constant 
water  level.  The  Ministry  of  the  Environment  reported  that  the 
lake's  water  level  had  dropped  by  fifty  centimeters  in  1993. 
Experts  said  that  this  drop  brought  the  level  to  within  twenty- 
seven  centimeters  of  the  critical  point  where  flora  and  fauna 
would  be  endangered. 

Among  major  industrial  centers  closed  to  curtail  pollution 
were  the  Nairit  Chemical  Plant,  the  Alaverdy  Metallurgical 
Plant,  and  the  Vanadzor  Chemical  Combine.  Economic 
requirements  triumphed  over  environmental  considerations 
when  the  Soviet-era  Nairit  plant  was  reopened  in  January  1992 
after  being  closed  in  1989  because  of  the  massive  air  pollution 
it  caused.  Newly  independent  Armenia  needed  the  income 
from  foreign  sales  of  Nairit  rubber  and  chemical  products, 
many  of  which  had  been  assigned  exclusively  to  that  plant 
under  the  Soviet  system  and  were  still  unavailable  elsewhere  to 
the  former  Soviet  republics  in  the  early  1990s.  Up-to-date  envi- 
ronmental safety  technology  and  adherence  to  international 
standards  were  promised  at  Nairit  when  the  decision  to  resume 
production  was  announced. 

Population  and  Ethnic  Composition 

The  forces  of  history  have  wrought  dramatic  changes  on  the 
boundaries  of  the  various  Armenian  states;  the  population's 
size  and  the  ethnic  makeup  of  those  states  have  also  been 
strongly  affected.  In  the  twentieth  century,  particularly  signifi- 
cant changes  resulted  from  Turkish  efforts  to  exterminate 
Armenians  during  World  War  I  and  from  the  large-scale  emi- 
gration of  Azerbaijanis  from  Armenia  in  the  early  1990s. 

Population  Characteristics 

The  origins  of  the  Armenian  people  are  obscure.  According 
to  ancient  Armenian  writers,  their  people  descend  from  Noah's 
son  Japheth.  A  branch  of  the  Indo-Europeans,  the  Armenians 
are  linked  ethnically  to  the  Phrygians,  who  migrated  from 
Thrace  in  southeastern  Europe  into  Asia  Minor  late  in  the  sec- 
ond millennium  B.C.,  and  to  the  residents  of  the  kingdom  of 
Urartu,  with  whom  the  Armenians  came  into  contact  around 
800  B.C.  after  arriving  in  Asia  Minor  from  the  West.  Although 
ethnologists  disagree  about  the  precise  timing  and  elements  of 


29 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

this  ethnic  combination  (and  even  about  the  origin  of  the  term 
Armenian),  it  is  generally  agreed  that  the  modern  Armenians 
have  been  a  distinct  ethnic  group  centered  in  eastern  Anatolia 
since  at  least  600  B.C. 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Armenians  were  the  most 
urban  of  the  Transcaucasian  peoples,  but  they  were  also  the 
most  dispersed.  A  merchant  middle  class  was  the  most  power- 
ful social  group  among  the  Armenians,  although  the  church 
and  secular  intellectuals  also  provided  leadership.  Armenians 
pioneered  exploitation  of  the  oil  deposits  in  and  around  Baku, 
and  the  economic  growth  of  the  ancient  Georgian  capital, 
Tbilisi,  was  largely  an  enterprise  of  Armenian  merchants  and 
small  industrialists. 

The  massacres  and  displacements  that  occurred  between 
1895  and  1915  removed  nearly  all  the  Armenian  population  in 
the  Turkish  part  of  historical  Armenia.  In  1965  the  Soviet 
Union  estimated  that  3.2  million  Armenians  lived  in  all  its 
republics.  The  Turkish  census  the  same  vear  showed  only 
33,000  .Armenians  in  Turkey,  most  of  them  concentrated  in  the 
far  west  in  Istanbul.  In  1988  .Armenia's  population  declined  bv 
176,000,  reversing  a  trend  over  the  previous  decade,  in  which 
average  population  growth  was  1.5  percent  per  vear.  According 
to  the  1989  census,  the  population  of  Armenia  was  about 
3,288,000,  an  increase  of  8  percent  from  the  1979  census  fig- 
ure. An  official  estimate  in  1991  put  the  population  at 
3,354,000,  an  increase  of  2  percent  since  1989.  In  1989  Arme- 
nians were  the  eighth  largest  nationality  in  the  former  Soviet 
Union,  totaling  4,627,000.  At  that  time,  only  about  two-thirds 
of  the  Armenians  in  the  Soviet  Union  lived  in  Armenia.  Some 
11.5  percent  lived  in  Russia,  9.4  percent  in  Georgia,  8.4  percent 
in  Azerbaijan,  and  the  remaining  4  percent  in  the  other  repub- 
lics. In  recent  years,  .Armenian  refugees  from  .Azerbaijan,  Geor- 
gia, Russia,  and  the  Central  Asian  republics  have  settled  in 
.Armenia,  compounding  an  already  severe  housing  shortage. 
The  number  of  Armenians  living  in  other  countries,  primarily 
France,  Iran,  Lebanon,  Syria,  and  the  United  States,  has  been 
estimated  at  between  3  million  and  9  million. 

In  1991  Armenia's  population  density,  112.6  persons  per 
square  kilometer,  was  second  only  to  that  of  Moldavia  (now 
Moldova)  among  the  Soviet  republics.  About  68  percent  of  the 
population  lives  in  urban  areas  and  32  percent  in  rural  areas. 
In  1990  Armenia's  capital,  Erevan,  had  a  population  of  1.2  mil- 
lion, or  about  37  percent  of  the  population  of  the  republic:  the 


30 


View  of  Erevan 

Courtesy  A.  James  Firth,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 


second  largest  city,  Leninakan,  had  123,000  residents.  The 
twelfth  largest  city  in  the  former  Soviet  Union,  Erevan  is  the 
second  largest  in  the  Caucasus  region,  after  Tbilisi. 

In  1979  Armenian  families  residing  in  Armenia  averaged 
4.5  persons,  including  an  average  of  4.3  for  urban  families  and 
4.8  average  for  rural  families.  This  average  was  larger  than 
those  of  the  Baltic,  Georgian,  Moldavian,  and  predominantly 
Slavic  republics  of  the  Soviet  Union  but  less  than  the  family 
averages  of  the  Soviet  Muslim  republics.  In  1989  average  life 
expectancy  was  71.9  years  (69.0  years  for  males  and  74.7  years 
for  females).  The  birth  rate  was  21.6  live  births  per  1,000  popu- 
lation; the  death  rate  was  6.0  per  1,000. 

Ethnic  Minorities 

Ethnically  the  most  homogeneous  of  the  Soviet  republics, 
Armenia  had  few  problems  with  ethnic  minorities  during  the 
Soviet  period.  According  to  the  last  Soviet  census,  conducted  in 
1989,  Armenians  made  up  93.3  percent  of  Armenia's  popula- 
tion, Azerbaijanis  2.6  percent,  Russians  1.6  percent,  and  Mus- 
lim Kurds  and  Yezidi  (Christian  Kurds)  together  1.7  percent. 
Fewer  than  30,000  others,  including  Greeks  and  Ukrainians, 
lived  in  the  republic  in  1989.  During  the  Soviet  period,  the 


31 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


0  25  50  Miles 


Figure  6.  Ethnic  Groups  in  Armenia 


republic's  largest  non-Armenian  group  was  the  Azerbaijanis.  By 
1989,  however,  almost  all  of  the  Azerbaijanis,  who  had  num- 
bered 161,000  in  1979,  either  had  been  expelled  or  had  emi- 
grated from  Armenia  (see  fig.  6).  The  figure  for  the  1989 
census  included  77,000  Azerbaijanis  who  had  returned  to  their 
native  country  but  were  still  considered  residents  of  Armenia. 

Language,  Religion,  and  Culture 

Through  the  centuries,  Armenians  have  conscientiously 
retained  the  unique  qualities  of  their  language  and  art  forms, 
incorporating  influences  from  surrounding  societies  without 
sacrificing  distinctive  national  characteristics.  Religion  also  has 


32 


Armenia 


been  a  strong  unifying  force  and  has  played  a  political  role  as 
well. 

Language 

The  Armenian  language  is  a  separate  Indo-European 
tongue  sharing  some  phonetic  and  grammatical  features  with 
other  Caucasian  languages,  such  as  Georgian.  The  Iranian  lan- 
guages contributed  many  loanwords  related  to  cultural  sub- 
jects; the  majority  of  the  Armenian  word  stock  shows  no 
connection  with  other  existing  languages,  however,  and  some 
experts  believe  it  derives  from  extinct  non-Indo-European  lan- 
guages. The  distinct  alphabet  of  thirty-eight  letters,  derived 
from  the  Greek  alphabet,  has  existed  since  the  early  fifth  cen- 
tury A.D.  Classical  Armenian  (grabar)  is  used  today  only  in  the 
Armenian  Apostolic  Church  as  a  liturgical  language.  Modern 
spoken  Armenian  is  divided  into  a  number  of  dialects,  the 
most  important  of  which  are  the  eastern  dialect  (used  in  Arme- 
nia, the  rest  of  Transcaucasia,  and  Iran)  and  the  western  dia- 
lect (used  extensively  in  Turkey  and  among  Western  emigres). 
The  two  major  dialects  differ  in  some  vocabulary,  pronuncia- 
tion, grammar,  and  orthography. 

In  the  Soviet  period,  schools  in  Armenia  taught  in  both 
Armenian  and  Russian;  in  a  republic  where  over  95  percent  of 
the  people  claimed  Armenian  as  their  native  language,  almost 
all  of  the  urban  population  and  much  of  the  rural  population 
knew  at  least  some  Russian.  At  the  end  of  the  Soviet  period, 
91.6  percent  of  Armenians  throughout  the  Soviet  Union  con- 
sidered Armenian  to  be  their  native  language,  and  47.1  per- 
cent of  Armenians  were  fluent  in  Russian. 

Religion 

Mostly  Christians  since  the  early  fourth  century  A.D. ,  the 
Armenians  claim  to  represent  the  first  state  to  adopt  Christian- 
ity as  an  official  religion.  The  independent  Armenian  church 
considers  its  founders  to  have  been  the  apostles  Bartholomew 
and  Thaddeus  and  officially  calls  itself  the  Armenian  Apostolic 
Church.  (It  is  also  referred  to  as  the  Armenian  Orthodox 
Church  or  the  Gregorian  Church.)  The  conversion  of  Armenia 
by  Saint  Gregory  the  Illuminator  occurred  by  about  A.D.  314, 
although  the  traditional  date  is  A.D.  306.  Armenian  Christians 
then  remained  under  the  powerful  combined  religious  and 
political  jurisdiction  of  the  Roman  Empire  until  the  sixth  cen- 
tury. At  that  point,  the  Armenian  church  asserted  its  indepen- 


33 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

dence  by  breaking  with  the  Byzantine  doctrine  of  Christ's  dual 
(divine  and  earthly)  nature,  which  had  been  expressed  offi- 
cially by  the  Council  of  Chalcedon  in  A.D.  451. 

Since  the  schism,  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church  has  been 
in  communion  only  with  the  monophysite  churches  (those 
believing  that  the  human  and  divine  natures  of  Christ  consti- 
tute a  unity)  of  Egypt,  Syria,  and  Ethiopia.  Rather  than 
embrace  the  monophysite  doctrine,  however,  the  Armenian 
church  holds  that  Christ  had  both  a  divine  and  a  human 
nature,  inseparably  combined  in  a  complete  humanity  that  was 
animated  by  a  rational  soul. 

Although  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church  often  is  identi- 
fied with  the  Eastern  Orthodox  churches  of  Eastern  Europe, 
Russia,  and  Georgia,  the  Armenian  church  has  been  juridically 
and  theologically  independent  since  the  early  Middle  Ages.  As 
a  national  church,  it  has  played  a  vital  role  in  maintaining 
Armenian  culture,  through  the  preservation  and  expansion  of 
written  traditions  and  as  a  cultural  focus  for  Armenians  scat- 
tered around  the  world.  In  the  long  periods  when  Armenians 
did  not  have  a  state  of  their  own,  their  church  was  both  a  polit- 
ical and  a  spiritual  leader,  and  religion  was  at  the  center  of  the 
Armenian  national  self-image.  Under  the  millet  system  by  which 
the  Ottoman  Empire  ruled  subject  peoples,  the  patriarch  of 
Constantinople  was  recognized  as  the  head  of  the  Armenian 
community,  and  the  Russian  Empire  treated  the  catholicos,  the 
titular  head  of  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church,  as  the  most 
important  representative  of  the  Armenian  people. 

The  Armenian  Apostolic  Church  is  headed  by  Vazgen  I, 
supreme  catholicos  of  all  Armenians,  who  resides  in  the  holy 
city  of  Echmiadzin,  west  of  Erevan.  The  membership  of  the 
church  is  split  between  a  majority  that  recognizes  the  supreme 
catholicos  without  qualification  and  a  minority  that  recognizes 
the  catholicos  of  Cilicia,  whose  seat  is  at  Antilyas  in  Lebanon. 
Closely  affiliated  with  the  Armenian  Revolutionary  Federation 
(ARF),  the  minority  branch  of  the  church  was  hostile  to  any 
accommodation  with  communist  regimes  while  Armenia  was 
under  Soviet  rule.  Both  branches  of  the  church  have  been 
closely  identified  with  the  movement  for  national  indepen- 
dence, however.  A  split  occurred  within  the  United  States 
membership  of  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church  in  1933,  when 
ARF  sympathizers  assassinated  the  Armenian  archbishop  of 
New  York.  Two  factions  remained  distinct  in  the  United  States 
in  the  early  1990s. 


34 


Armenia 


Two  additional  patriarchates  in  Jerusalem  and  Istanbul  lack 
the  status  of  full  catholicates.  Three  dioceses  are  located  in 
other  former  Soviet  republics,  and  twenty  bishoprics  function 
in  other  countries.  Total  church  membership  was  estimated  at 
4  million  in  1993.  The  Armenian  Orthodox  Academy  and  one 
seminary  provide  religious  training. 

About  94  percent  of  the  population  of  Armenia  belongs  to 
the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church.  Small  Roman  Catholic  and 
Protestant  communities  also  exist  in  Armenia.  Catholic  mis- 
sionaries began  converting  Armenians  in  the  Ottoman  and 
Persian  empires  in  the  early  modern  era,  and  American  Protes- 
tant missionaries  were  active  in  the  nineteenth  century.  The 
Kurdish  population,  which  totaled  56,000  in  1993,  is  mostly 
Muslim  but  also  includes  many  Christians.  Kurds  now  consti- 
tute the  largest  Muslim  group  in  Armenia  because  most  Azer- 
baijani Muslims  emigrated  in  the  early  1990s.  A  Russian 
Orthodox  community  also  exists. 

The  Armenian  Diaspora 

Beginning  in  the  eleventh  century,  a  long  series  of  inva- 
sions, migrations,  conversions,  deportations,  and  massacres 
reduced  Armenians  to  a  minority  population  in  their  historic 
homeland  on  the  Armenian  Plateau.  Under  these  conditions,  a 
large-scale  Armenian  diaspora  of  merchants,  clerics,  and  intel- 
lectuals reached  cities  in  Russia,  Poland,  Western  Europe,  and 
India.  Most  Armenians  remaining  in  historical  Armenia  under 
the  Ottoman  Empire  in  the  fifteenth  century  survived  as  peas- 
ant farmers  in  eastern  Anatolia,  but  others  resettled  in  Con- 
stantinople, Smyrna,  and  other  cities  in  the  empire.  There  they 
became  artisans,  moneylenders,  and  traders.  In  the  nineteenth 
century,  the  political  uncertainties  that  beset  the  Ottoman 
Empire  prompted  further  insecurity  in  the  Armenian  popula- 
tion. Finally,  the  Young  Turk  government  either  massacred  or 
forcibly  removed  the  vast  majority  of  Armenians  from  the  east- 
ern Anatolian  provinces  in  1915  (see  Between  Russia  and  Tur- 
key, this  ch.). 

Today  about  half  the  world's  Armenians  live  outside  Arme- 
nia. Armenian  communities  have  emerged  in  the  Middle  East, 
Russia,  Poland,  Western  Europe,  India,  and  North  America, 
where  Armenians  have  gained  a  reputation  for  their  skill  in 
crafts  and  in  business.  Although  accurate  statistics  are  not  avail- 
able, the  Armenian  diaspora  is  about  equally  divided  between 
the  1.5  million  Armenians  in  the  other  republics  of  the  former 


35 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Soviet  Union  and  a  similar  number  in  the  rest  of  the  world. 
The  postcommunist  Republic  of  Armenia  has  officially  defined 
the  Armenian  nation  to  include  the  far-flung  diaspora,  a  policy 
in  accord  with  the  feelings  of  many  diaspora  Armenians. 

A  common  theme  in  Armenian  discourse  is  the  need  to  pre- 
serve the  culture  and  heritage  of  the  Armenian  people 
through  education  and  mobilization  of  younger  members  of 
the  community.  In  this  task,  the  Republic  of  Armenia  enjoys 
the  enthusiastic  support  of  the  international  Armenian  com- 
munity, which  sees  a  new  opportunity  to  impart  information  to 
the  rest  of  the  world  about  Armenian  culture — and  especially 
to  rectify  perceived  inattention  to  the  tragedy  of  1915. 

The  Armenian  diaspora  maintains  its  coherence  through 
the  church,  political  parties  (despite  their  mutual  hostilities), 
charitable  organizations,  and  a  network  of  newspapers  pub- 
lished in  Armenian  and  other  languages.  Armenian  emigres  in 
the  United  States  have  endowed  eight  university  professorships 
in  Armenian  studies.  With  the  reemergence  of  an  independent 
Armenia,  diaspora  Armenians  have  established  industries,  a 
technical  university,  exchange  programs,  and  medical  clinics  in 
Armenia.  Several  prominent  diaspora  Armenians  have  served 
in  the  Armenian  government. 

Culture 

The  international  Armenian  community  remains  loyal  to 
strong  cultural  traditions,  many  of  which  have  enriched  the 
societies  into  which  Armenians  emigrated.  Cultural  tradition 
has  been  a  means  of  maintaining  a  sense  of  national  unity 
among  widely  dispersed  groups  of  Armenians. 

Literature  and  the  Arts 

The  Armenians  became  active  in  literature  and  many  art 
forms  at  a  very  early  point  in  their  civilization.  Urartian  metal- 
working  and  architecture  have  been  traced  back  to  about  1000 
B.C.  The  beginning  of  truly  national  art  is  usually  fixed  at  the 
onset  of  the  Christian  era.  The  three  great  artistic  periods  coin- 
cided with  times  of  independence  or  semi-independence:  from 
the  fifth  to  the  seventh  century;  the  Bagratid  golden  age  of  the 
ninth  and  tenth  centuries;  and  the  era  of  the  kingdom  of 
Lesser  Armenia  in  the  twelfth  to  fourteenth  centuries. 

Of  especially  high  quality  in  the  earlier  periods  were  work  in 
gold  and  bronze,  as  well  as  temples,  military  fortifications,  and 
aqueducts.  In  the  early  Christian  era,  classical  church  architec- 


36 


Armenia 


ture  was  adapted  in  a  series  of  cathedrals.  The  circular  domes 
typical  of  Armenian  churches  were  copied  in  Western  Europe 
and  in  Ottoman  Turkey.  The  best  example  of  the  distinctive 
architectural  sculpture  used  to  adorn  such  churches  is  the  early 
tenth-century  Church  of  the  Holy  Cross  on  an  island  in  Lake 
Van.  The  architecture  of  contemporary  Erevan  is  distinguished 
by  the  use  of  pinkish  tufa  stone  and  a  combination  of  tradi- 
tional Armenian  and  Russian  styles. 

Armenian  painting  is  generally  considered  to  have  origi- 
nated with  the  illumination  of  religious  manuscripts  that 
thrived  from  the  ninth  to  the  seventeenth  century.  Armenian 
painters  in  Cilicia  and  elsewhere  enriched  Byzantine  and  West- 
ern formulas  with  their  unique  use  of  color  and  their  inclusion 
of  Oriental  themes  acquired  from  the  Mongols.  Many  unique 
Armenian  illuminated  manuscripts  remain  in  museums  in  the 
West. 

The  nineteenth  century  saw  a  blooming  of  Armenian  paint- 
ing. Artists  from  that  period,  such  as  the  portrait  painter 
Hacop  Hovnatanian  and  the  seascape  artist  Ivan  Aivazovsky, 
continue  to  enjoy  international  reputations.  Notable  figures  of 
the  twentieth  century  have  included  the  unorthodox  Alex- 
ander Bazhbeuk-Melikian,  who  lived  a  persecuted  existence  in 
Tbilisi,  and  the  emigre  surrealist  Arshile  Gorky  (pseudonym  of 
Vosdanik  Adoian),  who  greatly  influenced  a  generation  of 
young  American  artists  in  New  York.  Other  emigre  painters  in 
various  countries  have  continued  the  tradition  as  well. 

The  Armenian  literary  tradition  began  early  in  the  fifth  cen- 
tury A.D.  with  religious  tracts  and  histories  of  the  Armenians. 
The  most  important  of  these  were  written  by  Agathangelos, 
Egishe,  Movses  Khorenatsi,  and  Pavstos  Buzand.  A  secular  liter- 
ature developed  in  the  early  modern  period,  and  in  the  eigh- 
teenth century  Armenian  Catholic  monks  of  the  Mekhitarist 
order  began  publishing  ancient  texts,  modern  histories,  gram- 
mars, and  literature.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  Armenians 
developed  their  own  journalism  and  public  theater.  Khachatur 
Abovian  wrote  the  first  Armenian  novel,  Verk  Haiastani  (The 
Wounds  of  Armenia),  in  the  early  1840s.  Armenian  literature 
and  drama  often  depict  struggles  against  religious  and  ethnic 
oppression  and  the  aspirations  of  Armenians  for  security  and 
self-expression. 

National  Traditions 

Major  Armenian  holidays  commemorate  both  religious  and 


37 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

historical  events.  Besides  Christmas  and  Easter,  the  most  impor- 
tant holidays  are  Vartanants,  the  day  marking  the  fifth-century 
defense  of  Christianity  against  the  Persians,  and  April  24, 
which  commemorates  the  1915  genocide  of  the  Armenians  in 
Turkey. 

At  times  of  celebration,  Armenians  enjoy  traditional  circle 
dances  and  distinctive  national  music.  Their  music  and  their 
cuisine  are  similar  to  those  of  other  Middle  Eastern  peoples.  A 
typical  Armenian  meal  might  include  lamb,  rice  pilaf,  egg- 
plant, yogurt,  and  a  sweet  dessert  such  as  paklava  (baklava). 
Armenians  pride  themselves  on  their  close  family  ties,  hospital- 
ity, and  reverence  for  their  national  language  and  culture,  an 
appreciation  that  is  passed  from  one  generation  to  the  next. 

Education,  Health,  and  Welfare 

In  the  first  years  of  independence,  Armenia  made  uneven 
progress  in  establishing  systems  to  meet  its  national  require- 
ments in  social  services.  Education,  held  in  particular  esteem 
in  Armenian  culture,  changed  fastest  of  the  social  services, 
while  health  and  welfare  services  attempted  to  maintain  the 
basic  state-planned  structure  of  the  Soviet  era. 

Education 

A  literacy  rate  of  100  percent  was  reported  as  early  as  1960. 
In  the  communist  era,  Armenian  education  followed  the  stan- 
dard Soviet  model  of  complete  state  control  (from  Moscow)  of 
curricula  and  teaching  methods  and  close  integration  of  edu- 
cation activities  with  other  aspects  of  society,  such  as  politics, 
culture,  and  the  economy.  As  in  the  Soviet  period,  primary  and 
secondary  school  education  in  Armenia  is  free,  and  comple- 
tion of  secondary  school  is  compulsory.  In  the  early  1990s, 
Armenia  made  substantial  changes  to  the  centralized  and  regi- 
mented Soviet  system.  Because  at  least  98  percent  of  students 
in  higher  education  were  Armenian,  curricula  began  to 
emphasize  Armenian  history  and  culture.  Armenian  became 
the  dominant  language  of  instruction,  and  many  schools  that 
had  taught  in  Russian  closed  by  the  end  of  1991.  Russian  was 
still  widely  taught,  however,  as  a  second  language. 

In  the  1990-91  school  year,  the  estimated  1,307  primary  and 
secondary  schools  were  attended  by  608,800  students.  Another 
seventy  specialized  secondary  institutions  had  45,900  students, 
and  68,400  students  were  enrolled  in  a  total  of  ten  postsecond- 
ary  institutions  that  included  universities.  In  addition,  35  per- 


Men  playing  checkers  at  old-age  home  in  Erevan 
Courtesy  A.  James  Firth,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

cent  of  eligible  children  attended  preschools.  In  the  1988-89 
school  year,  301  students  per  10,000  population  were  in  special- 
ized secondary  or  higher  education,  a  figure  slightly  lower  than 
the  Soviet  average.  In  1989  some  58  percent  of  Armenians  over 
age  fifteen  had  completed  their  secondary  education,  and  14 
percent  had  a  higher  education.  In  1992  Armenia's  largest 
institution  of  higher  learning,  Erevan  State  University,  had 
eighteen  departments,  including  ones  for  social  sciences,  sci- 
ences, and  law.  Its  faculty  numbered  about  1,300  and  its  stu- 
dent population  about  10,000.  The  Erevan  Architecture  and 
Civil  Engineering  Institute  was  founded  in  1989.  Eight  other 
institutions  of  higher  learning,  all  located  in  Erevan,  teach  agri- 
culture, fine  arts  and  theater,  economics,  music,  applied  sci- 
ence and  technology,  medicine,  pedagogy  and  foreign 
languages,  and  veterinary  medicine. 

Health 

The  social  and  economic  upheavals  that  followed  the  earth- 
quake of  1988  combined  with  the  political  collapse  of  the 
Soviet  Union  to  create  a  catastrophic  public  health  situation  in 
Armenia.  According  to  Soviet  statistics  published  between  1989 
and  1991,  the  incidence  of  tuberculosis,  viral  hepatitis,  and 


39 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

cancer  were  among  the  lowest  in  the  Soviet  republics  (see  table 
2,  Appendix).  In  1990  the  rates  of  infant  mortality  and  mater- 
nal mortality,  17.1  and  34.6  per  1,000  population,  respectively, 
were  also  among  the  lowest  rates  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  level  of  medical  care  declined  rapidly  in  the  late  1980s 
and  the  early  1990s,  however,  largely  because  of  the  Azerbaijani 
blockade  and  the  additional  stress  caused  by  war  casualties. 
Even  in  1990,  Armenia  ranked  lowest  among  the  republics  in 
hospital  beds  per  1,000  population  and  exactly  matched  the 
Soviet  Union  average  for  doctors  per  1,000  population.  Before 

1991  Armenia  had  acquired  stocks  of  medical  supplies  and 
equipment,  thanks  largely  to  the  Western  aid  projects  that  fol- 
lowed the  1988  earthquake.  By  1992,  however,  the  trade  block- 
ade had  made  the  supply  of  such  basic  items  as  surgical  gloves, 
syringes,  and  chlorine  for  water  purification  unreliable.  In  the 
escalating  medical  crisis  that  resulted  from  this  vulnerability, 
elderly  people  and  newborns  were  particularly  at  risk;  in  late 

1992  and  early  1993,  healthy  infants  reportedly  were  dying  in 
hospitals  because  of  the  cold  and  the  lack  of  adequate  equip- 
ment. 

In  December  1992,  President  Ter-Petrosian  declared  Arme- 
nia a  disaster  area  and  appealed  to  the  UN  Security  Council  to 
focus  on  the  crisis  in  the  republic.  Government  officials  esti- 
mated that  without  emergency  humanitarian  aid  some  30,000 
people  would  die.  Early  in  1993,  the  United  States  launched 
Operation  Winter  Rescue  to  send  needed  assistance  to  Arme- 
nia. In  June  Project  Hope  sent  US$3.9  million  worth  of  medi- 
cine from  the  United  States.  From  mid-1992  to  mid-1993, 
United  States  medical  assistance  totaled  US$20  million. 

All  hospitals  in  Armenia  are  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Ministry  of  Health  or  the  Erevan  Health  Department.  In  1993 
about  29,900  hospital  beds  were  available.  Hospitals  generally 
had  surgical,  physical  therapy,  pediatric,  obstetric/ gynecologi- 
cal, and  infectious  disease  wards.  But  according  to  reports,  by 

1993  more  than  half  the  hospitals  in  Armenia  had  ceased  func- 
tioning because  electricity,  heat,  or  supplies  were  lacking. 

Thirty-seven  polyclinics  serve  the  rural  areas,  which  have  no 
comprehensive  health  centers;  such  clinics  are  each  designated 
to  provide  basic  medical  services  to  about  10,000  people.  Sixty- 
two  outpatient  centers  specialize  in  child  or  adult  medicine  in 
urban  areas.  Immunizations  against  certain  diseases  are  given 
to  most  infants  before  they  are  one  year  old:  in  1991  some  95 


40 


Armenia 


percent  of  infants  were  immunized  against  poliomyelitis,  88 
percent  against  diphtheria,  and  86  percent  against  pertussis. 

Between  1986  and  1994,  two  cases  of  acquired  immune  defi- 
ciency syndrome  (AIDS)  were  reported  in  Armenia:  one  for- 
eigner who  was  subsequently  deported,  and  one  Armenian 
who  contracted  the  disease  in  Tanzania  and  was  treated  in 
Armenia.  Experts  believe  that  the  Azerbaijani  blockade  has 
acted  to  limit  the  incidence  of  AIDS.  Although  no  AIDS  clinics 
are  operating,  some  research  has  been  conducted.  In  1992 
Armenian  scientists  announced  the  discovery  of  a  possible 
treatment  compound. 

Social  Welfare 

The  social  safety  net  also  weakened  drastically  in  the  first 
years  of  independence.  Beginning  in  1989,  a  large  share  of 
national  expenditures  on  welfare  services  went  to  the  victims  of 
the  earthquake.  In  the  early  1990s,  Armenia  nominally 
retained  the  Soviet-era  system  of  social  services  (retirement, 
survivor,  and  disability  pensions;  allowances  to  the  parents  of 
newborn  children;  sick  and  maternity  leave;  unemployment 
compensation;  and  food  subsidies).  In  the  early  1990s,  how- 
ever, acute  budget  shortages  brought  severe  cuts  in  almost  all 
the  social  welfare  programs  of  the  Soviet  era  and  their  replace- 
ment by  intermittent  foreign  aid  programs.  The  Ministry  of 
Labor  and  Social  Security  allocates  social  benefits  and  charita- 
ble aid  from  outside  the  country.  In  1993  only  35  percent  of 
those  officially  considered  unemployed  received  jobless  bene- 
fits (see  Labor  and  the  Standard  of  Living,  this  ch.). 

The  Economy 

In  1991,  Armenia's  last  year  as  a  Soviet  republic,  national 
income  fell  12  percent  from  the  previous  year,  and  per  capita 
gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  was  4,920  rubles, 
just  68  percent  of  the  national  average  for  the  Soviet  Union.  In 
large  part  because  of  the  earthquake  of  1988,  the  Azerbaijani 
blockade  that  began  in  1989,  and  the  collapse  of  the  internal 
trading  system  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Armenian  economy  of 
the  early  1990s  remained  far  below  its  1980  production  levels. 
In  the  first  two  years  of  independence  (1992-93),  inflation  was 
extremely  high,  productivity  and  national  income  dropped 
dramatically,  and  the  national  budget  ran  large  deficits. 


41 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Modern  Economic  History 

At  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  territory  of 
present-day  Armenia  was  a  backward  agricultural  region  with 
some  copper  mining  and  cognac  production.  From  1914 
through  1921,  Caucasian  Armenia  suffered  from  war,  revolu- 
tion, the  influx  of  refugees  from  Turkish  Armenia,  disease, 
hunger,  and  economic  misery.  About  200,000  people  died  in 
1919  alone.  At  that  point,  only  American  relief  efforts  saved 
Armenia  from  total  collapse. 

The  first  Soviet  Armenian  government  regulated  economic 
activity  stringently,  nationalizing  all  economic  enterprises,  req- 
uisitioning grain  from  peasants,  and  suppressing  most  private 
market  activity.  This  first  experiment  in  state  control  ended 
with  the  advent  of  Soviet  leader  Vladimir  I.  Lenin's  New  Eco- 
nomic Policy  (NEP)  of  1921-27.  This  policy  continued  state 
control  of  the  large  enterprises  and  banks,  but  peasants  could 
market  much  of  their  grain,  and  small  businesses  could  func- 
tion. In  Armenia  the  NEP  years  brought  partial  recovery  from 
the  economic  disaster  of  the  post-World  War  I  period.  By  1926 
agricultural  production  in  Armenia  had  reached  nearly 
three-quarters  of  its  prewar  level. 

By  the  end  of  the  1920s,  Stalin's  regime  had  revoked  the 
NEP  and  established  a  state  monopoly  on  all  economic  activity. 
Once  this  occurred,  the  main  goal  of  Soviet  economic  policy  in 
Armenia  was  to  turn  a  predominantly  agrarian  and  rural 
republic  into  an  industrial  and  urban  one.  Among  other 
restrictions,  peasants  now  were  forced  to  sell  nearly  all  their 
output  to  state  procurement  agencies  rather  than  at  the  mar- 
ket. From  the  1930s  through  the  1960s,  an  industrial  infrastruc- 
ture was  constructed.  Besides  hydroelectric  plants  and  canals, 
roads  were  built  and  gas  pipelines  were  laid  to  bring  fuel  and 
food  from  Azerbaijan  and  Russia. 

The  Stalinist  command  economy,  in  which  market  forces 
were  suppressed  and  all  orders  for  production  and  distribution 
came  from  state  authorities,  survived  in  all  its  essential  features 
until  the  fall  of  the  Soviet  government  in  1991.  In  the  early 
stages  of  the  communist  economic  revolution,  Armenia  under- 
went a  fundamental  transformation  into  a  "proletarian"  society. 
Between  1929  and  1939,  the  percentage  of  Armenia's  work 
force  categorized  as  industrial  workers  grew  from  13  percent  to 
31  percent.  By  1935  industry  supplied  62  percent  of  Armenia's 
economic  production.  Highly  integrated  and  sheltered  within 
the  artificial  barter  economy  of  the  Soviet  system  from  the 


42 


American  University  of  Armenia,  formerly  Communist  Party 

Higher  School,  Erevan 
Courtesy  Monica  O'Keefe,  United  States  Information  Agency 

1930s  until  the  end  of  the  communist  era,  the  Armenian  econ- 
omy showed  few  signs  of  self-sufficiency  at  any  time  during  that 
period.  In  1988  Armenia  produced  only  0.9  percent  of  the  net 
material  product  (NMP — see  Glossary)  of  the  Soviet  Union 
(1.2  percent  of  industry,  0.7  percent  of  agriculture).  The 
republic  retained  1.4  percent  of  total  state  budget  revenue, 
delivered  63.7  percent  of  its  NMP  to  other  republics,  and 
exported  only  1.4  percent  of  what  it  produced  to  markets  out- 
side the  Soviet  Union. 

Armenian  industry  was  especially  dependent  on  the  Soviet 
military-industrial  complex.  About  40  percent  of  all  enterprises 
in  the  republic  were  devoted  to  defense,  and  some  factories 
lost  60  to  80  percent  of  their  business  in  the  last  years  of  the 
Soviet  Union,  when  massive  cuts  were  made  in  national 
defense  expenditures.  As  the  republic's  economy  faces  the 
prospect  of  competing  in  world  markets  in  the  mid-1990s,  the 
greatest  liabilities  of  Armenian  industry  are  its  outdated  equip- 
ment and  infrastructure  and  the  pollution  emitted  by  many  of 
the  country's  heavy  industrial  plants  (see  Environmental  Prob- 
lems, this  ch.). 


43 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Natural  Resources 

Although  Armenia  was  one  of  the  first  places  where  humans 
smelted  iron,  copper  is  the  most  important  raw  material  mined 
there  today.  Deposits  of  zinc,  molybdenum,  gold,  silver,  baux- 
ite, obsidian,  and  semiprecious  stones,  as  well  as  marble,  gran- 
ite, and  other  building  materials,  are  also  present.  Significant 
expansion  is  believed  possible  in  the  exploitation  of  most  of 
those  materials,  which  until  the  mid-1990s  had  been  largely 
untouched.  Some  oil  deposits  have  been  identified,  but  the 
complex  geology  of  the  region  makes  recovery  difficult  and 
expensive.  In  1993  an  American  expedition  tentatively  identi- 
fied further  deposits  of  natural  gas  and  oil,  but  exploitation  was 
not  expected  for  several  years. 

Agriculture 

Armenia  has  486,000  hectares  of  arable  land,  about  16  per- 
cent of  the  country's  total  area.  In  1991  Armenia  imported 
about  65  percent  of  its  food.  About  10  percent  of  the  work 
force,  which  is  predominantly  urban,  is  employed  in  agricul- 
ture, which  in  1991  provided  25.7  percent  of  the  country's 
NMP.  In  1990  Armenia  became  the  first  Soviet  republic  to  pass 
a  land  privatization  law,  and  from  that  time  Armenian  farm- 
land shifted  into  the  private  sector  at  a  faster  rate  than  in  any 
other  republic.  However,  the  rapidity  and  disorganization  of 
land  reallocation  led  to  disputes  and  dissatisfaction  among  the 
peasants  receiving  land.  Especially  problematic  were  allocation 
of  water  rights  and  distribution  of  basic  materials  and  equip- 
ment. Related  enterprises  such  as  food  processing  and  hot- 
house operations  often  remained  in  state  hands,  reducing  the 
advantages  of  private  landholding. 

By  1992  privatization  of  the  state  and  collective  farms,  which 
had  dominated  Armenian  agriculture  in  the  Soviet  period,  had 
put  63  percent  of  cultivated  fields,  80  percent  of  orchards,  and 
91  percent  of  vineyards  in  the  hands  of  private  farmers.  The 
program  yielded  a  15  percent  increase  in  agricultural  output 
between  1990  and  1991.  In  1993  the  government  ended  restric- 
tions on  the  transfer  of  private  land,  a  step  expected  to  increase 
substantially  the  average  size  (and  hence  the  efficiency)  of  pri- 
vate plots.  At  the  end  of  1993,  an  estimated  300,000  small  farms 
(one  to  five  hectares)  were  operating.  In  that  year,  harvests 
were  bountiful  despite  the  high  cost  of  inputs;  only  the  disas- 
trous state  of  Armenia's  transportation  infrastructure  pre- 


44 


Armenia 


vented  relief  of  food  shortages  in  urban  centers  (see 
Transportation  and  Telecommunications,  this  ch.). 

Agriculture  is  carried  out  mainly  in  the  valleys  and  on  the 
mountainsides  of  Armenia's  uneven  terrain,  with  the  highest 
mountain  pastures  used  for  livestock  grazing.  Fertile  volcanic 
soil  allows  cultivation  of  wheat  and  barley  as  well  as  pasturage 
for  sheep,  goats,  and  horses.  With  the  help  of  irrigation,  figs, 
pomegranates,  cotton,  apricots,  and  olives  also  are  grown  in 
the  limited  subtropical  conditions  of  the  Aras  River  valley  and 
in  the  valleys  north  of  Erevan,  where  the  richest  farmland  is 
found.  Armenia  also  produces  peaches,  walnuts,  and  quinces, 
and  its  cognac  enjoys  a  worldwide  reputation. 

Irrigation  is  required  for  most  crops,  and  the  building  of 
canals  and  a  system  of  irrigation  was  among  the  first  major  state 
projects  of  the  Soviet  republic  in  the  1920s.  By  the  1960s,  ara- 
ble land  had  been  extended  by  20  percent,  compared  with 
pre-Soviet  times.  Most  farms  had  electricity  by  the  early  1960s, 
and  machinery  was  commonplace.  In  the  Soviet  era,  women 
made  up  most  of  the  agricultural  work  force;  a  large  percent- 
age of  the  younger  men  had  responded  to  the  Soviet  industrial- 
ization campaign  by  migrating  to  urban  centers.  In  1989  farms 
were  operating  about  13,400  tractors  and  1,900  grain  and  cot- 
ton combines. 

The  principal  agricultural  products  are  grains  (mostly  wheat 
and  barley),  potatoes,  vegetables,  grapes,  berries,  cotton,  sugar 
beets,  tobacco,  figs,  and  olives.  In  1989  Armenia  produced 
200,000  tons  of  grain,  266,000  tons  of  potatoes,  485,000  tons  of 
vegetables,  117,000  tons  of  sugar  beets,  170,000  tons  of  fruit, 
119,000  tons  of  grapes,  105,000  tons  of  meat,  491,000  tons  of 
milk,  and  561,000  tons  of  eggs. 

Industry 

The  most  important  elements  of  Armenian  heavy  industry 
are  metalworking,  machinery  manufacture,  electronics,  and 
the  production  of  chemicals,  petrochemicals,  fertilizers,  and 
building  materials  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  In  1993,  with  the 
aid  of  British  and  Russian  specialists,  a  chemical  combine  was 
designed  to  streamline  production  and  marketing  of  Armenia's 
chemical  products,  which  had  been  among  the  republic's  most 
profitable  outputs  in  the  Soviet  system.  In  the  later  Soviet 
period,  the  country  became  known  for  its  high-quality  scien- 
tific research,  particularly  in  computer  science,  nuclear  and 
elementary  particle  physics,  and  astrophysics.  An  estimated  30 


45 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

percent  of  Armenia's  industrial  production  infrastructure  was 
destroyed  or  damaged  by  the  earthquake  of  1988. 

In  the  Soviet  period,  Armenian  industry  contributed  trucks, 
tires,  elevators,  electronics,  and  instruments  to  the  union  econ- 
omy, but  several  of  the  plants  in  those  sectors  also  were  lost  in 
1988.  In  the  years  of  the  Azerbaijani  blockade,  heavy  industrial 
production  has  declined  sharply  because  the  supply  of  fuels 
and  electricity  has  been  limited  and  the  price  of  raw  materials 
has  become  prohibitive. 

Armenian  plants  were  an  important  part  of  the  Soviet  mili- 
tary-industrial complex,  producing  a  variety  of  equipment.  In 
the  early  1990s,  the  Armenian  Ministry  of  Defense  attempted 
to  re-establish  agreements  with  the  defense  establishments  of 
Russia  and  other  member  countries  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  (CIS — see  Glossary).  Such  a  move  would 
enable  Armenia  to  resume  production  of  sophisticated  elec- 
tronic air  defense  components,  which  would  significantly  bol- 
ster the  domestic  economy. 

Armenia's  most  important  light  consumer  products  are  knit- 
ted clothing  and  hosiery,  canned  goods,  aluminum  foil  for 
food  packaging,  and  shoes.  Most  durable  consumer  goods  are 
imported  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  In  1993  production  of  con- 
sumer products  declined  even  more  sharply  than  other  sectors. 
Food  imports  increased  dramatically  to  compensate  for  a  58 
percent  drop  in  domestic  food  processing  from  1991  to  1992. 

Overall  industrial  production  in  1993  was  about  60  percent 
of  that  in  1992,  but  the  percentage  rose  steadily  through  1993 
after  a  very  slow  beginning.  Food  production  for  1993,  how- 
ever, was  only  50  percent  of  the  1992  amount,  retail  sales  were 
58  percent,  and  paid  services  to  the  population  were  32  per- 
cent. 

Energy 

In  1990  Armenia  produced  less  than  1  percent  of  its  energy 
requirement,  which  was  filled  by  imports  from  Russia  (50  per- 
cent) and  other  republics  of  the  Soviet  Union.  In  the  late 
Soviet  era,  Armenia  had  a  share  in  the  Joint  Transcaucasian 
Power  Grid,  but  that  arrangement  and  short-term  supply  agree- 
ments with  Azerbaijan  ended  with  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  con- 
flict. The  1988  earthquake  destroyed  the  largest  nonnuclear 
thermoelectric  plant;  the  two  remaining  plants  are  located 
south  of  Erevan  and  near  Razdan,  northeast  of  Erevan. 


46 


Woman  feeding  chickens  in  a  rural  village 
Courtesy  Aline  Taroyan 

Hydroelectric  plants  provide  30  percent  of  domestic  elec- 
tricity, but  the  output  of  the  largest  producer,  the  Razdan 
Hydroelectric  Plant,  was  cut  drastically  because  of  its  negative 
effect  on  the  water  level  of  its  source,  Lake  Sevan.  By  early 
1994,  however,  a  fifth  hydroelectric  generating  unit  was  under 
construction,  with  international  funding,  to  help  alleviate  the 
energy  shortage.  Planners  are  also  considering  construction  of 
two  medium-sized  hydroelectric  stations  on  the  Dzoraget  and 
Debet  rivers  in  the  far  north,  or  300  to  450  small  stations  on 
lakes.  The  obstacle  to  such  plans  is  the  high  cost  of  importing 
technology. 

In  the  early  1990s,  severe  shortages  of  energy  led  to  black- 
outs, periodic  shutdowns  of  the  subway  system,  inadequate 
heating  of  urban  buildings,  and  the  further  decline  of  industry. 
Schools,  institutes,  and  universities  were  closed  through  the 
winters  of  1991-92  and  1992-93. 

In  the  1980s,  Soviet  planners  had  attempted  to  improve 
Armenia's  power  generation  capacity  by  building  the  Arme- 
nian Atomic  Power  Station  at  Metsamor.  However,  that  station's 
two  reactors  were  shut  down  after  the  1988  earthquake  to  avoid 
future  earthquake  damage  that  might  cause  an  environmental 
catastrophe.  The  heat  and  power  crisis  caused  by  the  Azer- 


47 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

baijani  blockade  instituted  in  1989  caused  the  government  to 
reconsider  use  of  Metsamor,  despite  the  station's  location  in 
earthquake-prone  northern  Armenia  and  the  possibility  of  a 
terrorist  attack  that  could  release  large  amounts  of  radiation. 

In  1993  Metsamor  had  an  estimated  capacity  to  provide  20 
percent  of  Armenia's  energy  requirements.  Plans  were  made 
for  startup  of  one  of  the  two  reactors  by  1995  after  careful 
equipment  testing  and  international  technical  assistance — with 
the  provision  that  the  plant  would  remain  closed  if  alternative 
sources  of  power  could  relieve  the  acute  shortage  of  the  prior 
three  years. 

In  1993  the  delivery  of  electric  power  to  industrial  consum- 
ers was  cut  to  one-third  of  the  1992  level.  Under  continued 
blockade  conditions,  the  winter  of  1993-94  brought  acute 
shortages  of  coal,  heating  oil,  and  kerosene  to  heat  homes  and 
city  apartment  buildings  and  to  keep  industries  running.  Sig- 
nificant deposits  of  high-quality  coal  have  been  identified  in 
Armenia,  with  holdings  estimated  at  100  million  tons.  But 
exploitation  would  require  massive  deforestation,  a  conse- 
quence that  is  considered  environmentally  prohibitive.  In  Sep- 
tember 1993,  Turkmenistan  agreed  to  deliver  8.5  million  cubic 
meters  of  natural  gas  per  day  during  the  winter,  as  well  as  kero- 
sene and  diesel  fuel  in  1994.  (Turkmenistan  was  already  an 
important  fuel  supplier  to  postcommunist  Armenia.)  Although 
Georgia  guaranteed  full  cooperation  in  maintaining  gas  deliv- 
ery through  its  pipeline  into  Armenia,  in  1993  explosions  on 
the  line  interrupted  the  flow  twelve  times.  Azerbaijani  groups 
in  Georgia  were  assumed  to  be  responsible  for  the  bombings. 

Postcommunist  Economic  Reform 

When  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  began  advocating  economic 
reform  in  the  late  1980s,  Armenians  introduced  elements  of 
the  free  market  and  privatization  into  their  economic  system. 
Cooperatives  were  set  up  in  the  service  sector,  particularly  in 
restaurants — although  substantial  resistance  came  from  the 
CPA  and  other  groups  that  had  enjoyed  privileged  positions  in 
the  old  economy.  In  the  late  1980s,  much  of  the  Armenian 
economy  already  was  operating  either  semi-officially  or  ille- 
gally, with  widespread  corruption  and  bribery.  The  so-called 
mafia,  made  up  of  interconnected  groups  of  powerful  officials 
and  their  relatives  and  friends,  sabotaged  the  efforts  of  reform- 
ers to  create  a  lawful  market  system.  When  the  December  1988 
earthquake  brought  millions  of  dollars  of  foreign  aid  to  the 


48 


Woman  working  in  a  cognac  factory,  Erevan 
Woman  working  in  a  shoe  repair  shop,  Erevan 
Courtesy  Aline  Taroyan 


49 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

devastated  regions  of  Armenia,  much  of  the  money  went  to 
corrupt  and  criminal  elements. 

Beginning  in  1991,  the  democratically  elected  government 
pushed  vigorously  for  privatization  and  market  relations, 
although  its  efforts  were  frustrated  by  the  old  ways  of  doing 
business  in  Armenia,  the  Azerbaijani  blockade,  and  the  costs  of 
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict.  In  1992  the  Law  on  the  Pro- 
gram of  Privatization  and  Destatization  of  Incompletely  Con- 
structed Facilities  established  a  state  privatization  committee, 
with  members  from  all  political  parties.  In  mid-1993  the  com- 
mittee announced  a  two-year  privatization  program,  whose  first 
stage  would  be  privatization  of  30  percent  of  state  enterprises, 
mostly  services  and  light  industries.  The  remaining  70  percent, 
including  many  bankrupt,  nonfunctional  enterprises,  were  to 
be  privatized  in  a  later  stage  with  a  minimum  of  government 
restriction,  to  encourage  private  initiative.  For  all  enterprises, 
the  workers  would  receive  20  percent  of  their  firm's  property 
free  of  charge;  30  percent  would  be  distributed  to  all  citizens  by 
means  of  vouchers;  and  the  remaining  50  percent  was  to  be  dis- 
tributed by  the  government,  with  preference  given  to  members 
of  the  labor  organization.  A  major  problem  of  this  system,  how- 
ever, is  the  lack  of  supporting  legislation  covering  foreign 
investment  protection,  bankruptcy,  monopoly  policy,  and  con- 
sumer protection. 

In  the  first  postcommunist  years,  efforts  to  interest  foreign 
investors  in  joint  enterprises  were  only  moderately  successful 
because  of  the  blockade  and  the  energy  shortage.  Only  in  late 
1993  was  a  department  of  foreign  investments  established  in 
the  Ministry  of  Economics,  to  spread  information  about  Arme- 
nian investment  opportunities  and  improve  the  legal  infra- 
structure for  investment  activity.  A  specific  goal  of  this  agency  is 
creating  a  market  for  scientific  and  technical  intellectual  prop- 
erty. 

A  few  Armenians  living  abroad  made  large-scale  invest- 
ments. Besides  a  toy  factory  and  construction  projects, 
diaspora  Armenians  built  a  cold  storage  plant  (which  in  its  first 
years  had  little  produce  to  store)  and  established  the  American 
University  of  Armenia  in  Erevan  to  teach  the  techniques  neces- 
sary to  run  a  market  economy. 

Armenia  was  admitted  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary)  in  May  1992  and  to  the  World  Bank  (see 
Glossary)  in  September.  A  year  later,  the  government  com- 
plained that  those  organizations  were  holding  back  financial 


50 


Armenia 


assistance  and  announced  its  intention  to  move  toward  fuller 
price  liberalization  and  the  removal  of  all  tariffs,  quotas,  and 
restrictions  on  foreign  trade.  Although  privatization  had 
slowed  because  of  the  catastrophic  collapse  of  the  economy, 
Prime  Minister  Hrant  Bagratian  informed  United  States  offi- 
cials in  the  fall  of  1993  that  plans  had  been  made  to  embark  on 
a  renewed  privatization  program  by  the  end  of  the  year. 

Labor  and  the  Standard  of  Living 

The  abrupt  termination  of  economic  relations  with  many 
former  Soviet  republics,  each  concerned  with  its  own  immedi- 
ate needs,  forced  reduction  of  the  work  force  and  plant  clos- 
ings in  Armenia.  In  the  years  following,  the  effects  of  the 
Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict  continued  and  exacerbated  the 
trend.  In  1991  some  39  percent  of  the  active  work  force  was 
employed  in  industry  and  construction;  21  percent  in  the  arts, 
education,  and  health;  19  percent  in  agriculture  and  forestry;  7 
percent  in  transportation  and  communications;  and  6  percent 
in  commerce  and  food  services  (see  table  5,  Appendix). 

About  96,000  persons  were  officially  classified  as  unem- 
ployed in  September  1993,  a  55  percent  increase  since  the 
beginning  of  the  year.  Another  150,000  workers  were  expected 
to  apply  for  government  support  grants  before  the  end  of  1993. 

About  800,000  Armenians  (approximately  one-quarter  of 
the  population)  were  homeless  in  1991.  Especially  hard-hit  by 
unemployment  was  the  highly  skilled  work  force  that  had  been 
employed  in  the  Soviet  military-industrial  complex  until  that 
sector  of  the  economy  was  severely  cut  in  the  late  1980s.  Con- 
version of  plants  to  civilian  production  progressed  slowly  in  the 
early  1990s;  according  to  one  estimate,  120,000  jobs  were  lost 
during  this  process. 

In  1988  the  Armenian  living  standard  was  slightly  lower 
than  that  of  the  Soviet  Union  as  a  whole.  The  per  capita  con- 
sumption by  Armenians  was  12  percent  below  the  average  for 
Soviet  republics.  Average  daily  nutritional  consumption  was 
2,932  calories,  of  which  45  percent  was  grains  and  potatoes  (see 
table  6,  Appendix). 

After  the  fall  of  the  Soviet  Union,  living  standards  in  Arme- 
nia fell  precipitously.  By  the  end  of  1993,  the  decrease  in  pro- 
duction, shortages  of  food  and  fuel,  and  hyperinflation  had 
reduced  the  living  standard  of  an  estimated  90  percent  of 
Armenians  to  below  the  official  poverty  line.  In  the  winter  of 
1993-94,  average  monthly  income  was  enough  to  pay  for  rent 


51 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

and  public  transportation,  plus  either  ten  eggs  or  300  grams  of 
butter.  Fish  and  bread,  still  under  price  controls,  were  the  only 
affordable  staple  foods.  Average  per  capita  housing  space  in 
1993  was  fifteen  square  meters. 

The  National  Financial  Structure 

The  various  aspects  of  Armenia's  financial  system  were 
reformed  or  replaced  piecemeal  in  the  early  1990s,  with  the 
national  cash  flow  severely  restricted  by  the  strangulation  of 
foreign  trade  and  diversions  to  support  military  operations  and 
emergency  humanitarian  needs  (see  table  7,  Appendix). 

Banking 

Banking  reforms  in  Armenia  moved  somewhat  more  slowly 
than  in  other  former  Soviet  republics.  In  late  1991,  the  special- 
ized state  banks  of  the  Soviet  system  were  converted  into  joint- 
stock  commercial  banks,  and  some  new  commercial  banks 
were  formed.  But  the  State  Bank  of  Armenia  (Gosbank  Arme- 
nia) and  the  Bank  for  Foreign  Economic  Affairs  remained  offi- 
cial  branches  of  central  state  banks  in  Moscow.  The 
consequence  was  diminished  local  control  over  monetary  pol- 
icy. 

A  new  Central  Bank  of  Armenia  was  not  fully  established 
until  early  1994,  and  even  then  the  bank  was  not  entirely  free 
of  state  control.  The  global  financial  community  considers  the 
bank's  independence  vital  to  normalization  of  Armenia's  inter- 
national financial  dealings,  along  with  stabilization  of  the  dram 
(for  value  of  the  dram — see  Glossary),  the  national  currency 
established  in  1993,  and  regularization  of  the  dispersal  of  state 
pension  allowances.  In  1993  official  exchange  rates  for  the 
dram  were  as  much  as  100  percent  more  than  black-market 
rates,  which  economists  consider  the  more  accurate  value. 
Because  of  a  shortage  of  hard  currency  in  1993,  banks  tried  to 
restrict  sales  of  hard  currency  that  would  further  diminish  the 
exchange  value  of  the  dram. 

The  National  Budget 

The  tax  base  of  the  1992  budget  was  to  include  a  new  value- 
added  tax  (VAT — see  Glossary),  several  excise  taxes,  and  a 
revised  system  of  enterprise  and  personal  income  taxes.  Hard- 
currency  export  earnings  were  to  be  taxed  at  25  percent.  The 
fastest-growing  expenditure  categories  were  national  defense 
and  allowances  to  citizens  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  price  liber- 


52 


Armenia 


alization.  The  1992  budget  called  for  a  cut  of  about  45  percent 
in  real  expenditures  (equivalent  to  a  nominal  increase  of  155 
percent),  which  would  still  leave  a  deficit  of  1.2  billion  rubles, 
or  11  percent  of  total  expenditures.  Budgets  were  extremely 
difficult  to  plan  because  of  the  Azerbaijani  blockade  and  the 
unpredictable  inflation  rate. 

Price  Policy 

In  mid-1990  the  government  introduced  a  three-stage  price 
reform  program,  implementation  of  which  was  severely  hin- 
dered by  the  contraction  of  the  national  economy.  The  pur- 
pose of  the  first  stage  was  to  improve  agricultural  production 
incentives  by  raising  government  procurement  prices  for  staple 
products.  The  second  stage  raised  wholesale  prices  and  tariffs 
to  bring  them  closer  to  world  market  levels  and  to  stimulate 
price  negotiations.  The  third  stage  fixed  prices  (usually  at 
increases  of  300  to  500  percent)  for  food,  medicine,  utilities, 
and  transportation,  but  it  freed  the  prices  of  most  other  items. 
Experts  believed  that  prices  would  not  reach  true  equilibrium 
until  the  end  of  shortages  caused  by  the  blockade. 

Between  December  1992  and  September  1993,  annual  price 
increases  for  various  goods  and  services  ranged  from  nearly 
600  to  over  1,200  percent.  Whereas  the  average  monthly 
increase  for  all  expenditures  in  1993  was  23  percent,  the  rate 
fell  considerably  in  the  second  half  of  the  year.  By  the  summer 
of  1993,  monthly  increases  had  fallen  below  17  percent. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Armenia's  mountainous  topography,  landlocked  location, 
and  antagonistic  neighbors  have  made  movement  of  goods  and 
maintenance  of  a  transportation  system  difficult.  Despite  these 
problems,  however,  the  country's  air,  rail,  and  highway  net- 
works serve  the  nation's  needs  adequately.  Domestic  movement 
of  goods  is  occasionally  hampered  by  poor  maintenance  of 
roads.  In  addition,  since  independence  in  1991,  movement  of 
goods  across  international  borders  has  frequently  been  dis- 
rupted because  many  of  the  country's  important  rail  and  high- 
way links  with  the  outside  world  pass  through  Azerbaijan. 
Beginning  in  1989,  complete  stoppage  of  international  trade 
across  this  border  led  to  escalating  food  and  fuel  shortages  in 
Armenia. 

In  1991  Armenia  had  11,300  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
about  10,500  kilometers  were  paved.  Most  roads  radiate  from 


53 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


GEORGIA  / 


National  capital 
•     Populated  place 
1111  Railroad 

  Road 

Airport 

NOTE  -  Status  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 
under  negotiation  in  1994. 

0  25         50  Kilometers 


\^Megri 


/  r 


25 


50  Miles 


Figure  7.  Transportation  System  of  Armenia,  1994 


Erevan,  and  in  the  western  part  of  the  country  four-lane  high- 
ways connect  major  cities  (see  fig.  7).  The  main  route  for  inter- 
national travel  of  passengers  and  goods  before  the  start  of  the 
conflict  with  Azerbaijan  was  Route  M24,  which  leads  northeast 
out  of  Erevan  to  connect  with  Route  M27,  the  principal  east- 
west  highway  across  the  Caucasus  Mountains.  Other  major 
highways  extend  southeast  from  the  capital  to  southern  Arme- 
nia and  to  Azerbaijan's  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic 
and  west  to  the  populated  areas  of  western  Armenia  and  to  the 
Turkish  border. 

In  1992  Armenia  had  about  100,000  state-owned  vehicles 
(automobiles,  trucks,  taxis,  and  buses).  Observers  noted,  how- 


54 


Armenia 


ever,  that  at  any  given  time  about  one-third  of  these  vehicles 
were  inoperable  because  of  poor  maintenance  and  unavailabil- 
ity of  spare  parts.  Average  vehicle  age  in  1992  was  6.5  years. 

Armenia  had  825  kilometers  of  mainline  railroad  track  in 
1992,  excluding  several  small  industrial  lines.  Most  lines  are 
1.520-meter  broad  gauge,  and  the  principal  routes  are  electri- 
fied. The  rail  system  is  roughly  configured  like  a  "  Y "  and  has 
lines  radiating  from  a  central  point  just  south  of  Erevan.  The 
northeast  branch  roughly  parallels  Route  M24  to  Azerbaijan. 
About  85  percent  of  all  goods  used  in  Armenia  are  imported  by 
rail,  and  before  the  conflict  with  Azerbaijan,  most  came  via  this 
rail  line.  Closure  of  the  line  at  the  international  border  during 
the  early  1990s  has  caused  severe  disruption  to  the  Armenian 
economy.  The  southern  branch  of  the  line  extends  south 
toward  the  Turkish  border,  where  it  turns  southeast  into 
Nakhichevan.  The  war  with  Azerbaijan  has  stopped  service  on 
this  segment  of  the  rail  system  as  well. 

In  1994  the  last  operative  portion  of  the  country's  rail  lines 
was  the  northwest  branch  of  the  "Y,"  which  winds  through  the 
populated  areas  of  northwestern  Armenia  before  crossing  into 
Georgia.  A  short  spur  of  this  line  at  Gyumri  connects  with  the 
Turkish  rail  system.  However,  a  difference  in  gauge  with  the 
Turkish  system  means  that  goods  crossing  the  Turkish  border 
must  undergo  a  time-consuming  reloading  process. 

In  1991  Armenia  Railways,  the  state-owned  rail  system,  oper- 
ated with  100  electric  and  eighty  diesel  locomotives.  Delays  in 
the  delivery  of  spare  parts  from  Russia  have  been  a  nagging 
problem  in  the  maintenance  of  the  system.  Cannibalization  of 
rolling  stock  to  obtain  parts  has  severely  reduced  service. 

Erevan's  new  subway  system  was  still  largely  under  construc- 
tion in  the  early  1990s.  In  1994  nine  stations  had  opened  on 
the  first  ten-kilometer  section  of  heavy-rail  line.  This  first  line 
connected  Erevan's  industrial  area  with  the  downtown  area  and 
the  main  rail  station.  Work  on  an  additional  four  kilometers 
was  slowed  by  the  1988  earthquake.  Plans  called  for  an  eventual 
system  of  forty-seven  kilometers  organized  into  three  lines. 

Armenia's  principal  airport,  Zvartnots,  is  about  seven  kilo- 
meters from  downtown  Erevan.  With  a  runway  approximately 
2,700  kilometers  long,  the  airport  can  handle  airplanes  as  large 
as  the  Russian  Tu-154  and  IL-86  or  the  Boeing  727.  In  1993  the 
airport  handled  about  34,000  tons  of  freight.  The  State  Airlines 
Company  of  Armenia,  the  new  state-run  airline,  provides  direct 
or  nonstop  service  to  about  a  dozen  cities  of  the  former  Soviet 


55 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Union,  as  well  as  to  Paris.  The  Russian  and  Romanian  national 
airlines  also  provide  regular  international  air  service  into  Ere- 
van. Since  the  beginning  of  the  conflict  with  Azerbaijan,  fuel 
shortages  have  curtailed  expansion  of  passenger  and  cargo  ser- 
vice, however.  Several  other  airports  elsewhere  in  Armenia 
have  paved  runways,  but  most  are  used  for  minor  freight  trans- 
port. Although  air  cargo  has  the  potential  to  relieve  the  effects 
of  the  Azerbaijani  blockade  of  land  routes,  efforts  to  fly  in  avia- 
tion kerosene  were  frustrated  in  1993  by  corruption  in  the 
Main  Administration  for  Aviation  and  by  high  prices  charged 
by  Russian  suppliers. 

Armenia's  one  major  natural  gas  pipeline  branches  off  the 
main  Transcaucasian  line  that  runs  from  Russia  through  Geor- 
gia  to  Baku.  The  Armenian  spur  begins  in  western  Azerbaijan 
and  reaches  its  main  terminus  in  Erevan.  In  all,  Armenia  has 
900  kilometers  of  natural  gas  pipeline.  Armenia  imports  most 
of  its  fuel  and,  before  the  conflict  with  Azerbaijan,  imported  80 
percent  of  its  fuel  from  Azerbaijan  via  the  pipeline  or  in  rail 
tanker  cars.  Like  Armenia's  rail  and  highway  links,  the  pipeline 
from  Azerbaijan  has  been  closed  by  the  Azerbaijani  blockade. 

In  1991  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 
installed  200  long-distance  circuits  in  Armenia,  which  gave  the 
republic  the  capacity,  available  elsewhere  in  the  former  Soviet 
Union  only  in  Moscow,  to  receive  direct-dial  international  calls. 
Radio  and  television  are  controlled  by  the  State  Committee  for 
Television  and  Radio  Broadcasting.  Ten  AM  and  three  FM 
radio  stations  broadcast  from  Erevan,  Kamo,  and  Sisian.  Broad- 
casts are  in  Armenian,  Kurdish,  and  Russian  to  points  within 
Armenia,  and  in  those  languages  plus  Arabic,  English,  French, 
Persian,  Spanish,  and  Turkish  to  points  outside  the  country. 
The  single  television  station  broadcasts  in  Armenian  and  Rus- 
sian. According  to  Soviet  statistics  of  the  late  1980s,  between  90 
and  95  percent  of  Armenian  homes  had  radios  or  televisions. 
No  statistics  are  available  for  the  blockade  years,  but  experts 
believe  that  under  blockade  conditions  substantially  fewer 
Armenians  have  had  regular  access  to  broadcast  information. 

Foreign  Trade 

In  the  Soviet  period,  Armenia  traded  almost  solely  with  the 
union's  other  republics.  A  foreign  trade  organization  (FTO) 
controlled  each  product  group,  and  exports  by  each  Armenian 
enterprise  were  determined  by  the  State  Planning  Committee 
(commonly  known  by  its  Russian  acronym,  Gosplan)  in  Mos- 


56 


Armenia 


cow.  Enterprises  had  no  control  over  the  size  or  destination  of 
shipments  of  their  products.  Together  with  Estonia  and  Tajiki- 
stan, Armenia  had  the  highest  level  of  imports  among  the 
Soviet  republics.  Its  exports  consisted  mostly  of  semifinished 
goods  that  needed  processing  in  other  republics. 

In  the  years  since  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union,  Arme- 
nia's economy  has  been  hurt  by  the  need  to  import  much  of  its 
food  and  almost  all  of  its  oil  and  gas.  In  1989  the  FTO  monop- 
oly was  removed,  allowing  enterprises  to  seek  their  own  buyers 
and  sellers  abroad.  In  1992  the  government  removed  most 
state  controls  over  foreign  trade.  Export  licensing  continued  to 
protect  enterprises  from  fraud  and  to  enforce  domestic  market 
quotas.  In  the  early  1990s,  most  of  Armenia's  exports  went  to 
Russia,  Eastern  Europe,  and  various  developing  countries  (see 
table  8,  Appendix).  By  January  1992,  Armenia  had  signed  bilat- 
eral trade  protocols  with  most  of  the  former  Soviet  republics. 
To  ensure  flexibility  in  the  face  of  future  price  liberalization, 
prices  were  to  be  set  in  direct  negotiation  between  enterprises. 
Enterprises  were  not  strictly  bound  by  protocols  signed  by  their 
respective  governments,  although  quotas  remained  a  possibil- 
ity. At  this  stage,  all  payments  were  to  be  in  rubles. 

In  1990  Armenia's  largest  sources  of  export  income  were 
light  industrial  products  (mostly  knit  clothing,  shoes,  and  car- 
pets), machines  and  metal  products,  processed  foods,  and 
chemical  products.  The  highest  total  expenditures  on  imports 
were  for  light  industrial  products,  processed  foods,  chemical 
products,  energy  and  fuels,  and  unprocessed  agricultural  prod- 
ucts. In  1990  Armenia  showed  a  trade  deficit  of  869  million 
rubles  in  industrial  goods  and  a  deficit  of  278  million  rubles  in 
agricultural  goods. 

In  April  1992,  Armenia  became  the  first  former  Soviet 
republic  to  sign  a  comprehensive  bilateral  trade  agreement 
with  the  United  States  and  the  first  to  receive  most-favored- 
nation  status.  Canada  soon  followed  in  granting  Armenia  simi- 
lar status.  In  planning  future  trade,  Armenia  expected  to  rely 
heavily  on  foreign  markets  for  products  from  its  newly  orga- 
nized complex  of  chemical  enterprises,  for  which  demand  was 
identified  in  the  former  Soviet  republics,  Eastern  Europe,  Iran, 
Syria,  Turkey,  Argentina,  and  Australia. 

Government  and  Politics 

The  Republic  of  Armenia  declared  its  sovereignty  on  August 
23,  1990,  and  became  an  independent  state  a  year  later,  on  Sep- 


57 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

tember  23,  1991.  In  October  1991,  Levon  Ter-Petrosian,  who 
had  been  elected  democratically  as  chairman  of  the  Armenian 
Supreme  Soviet  under  the  Soviet  system  in  1990,  was  chosen 
president  of  the  republic  in  a  six-candidate  election.  As  of  early 
1994,  Armenia  was  a  reasonably  stable  democratic  state, 
although  its  party  structure  was  fractious  and  its  legislative 
branch  ineffectual.  Because  no  consensus  could  be  reached  on 
a  new  constitution,  a  standoff  between  parliament  and  the 
president  remained  unresolved  in  early  1994. 

Parliament 

The  248  members  of  Armenia's  unicameral  parliament 
(Geraguin  khorhurt  in  Armenian,  officially  retaining  the  term 
"Supreme  Soviet"  from  the  communist  era)  are  elected  for  five- 
year  terms  and  meet  for  six  months  each  year.  The  prime  min- 
ister and  the  Council  of  Ministers,  which  together  constitute 
the  executive  branch  of  the  government,  are  chosen  from  par- 
liament. Although  half  the  members  of  parliament  (124)  must 
be  present  for  a  quorum,  a  majority  of  the  votes  of  the  entire 
body  (125)  is  needed  to  pass  laws.  In  the  early  1990s,  because 
more  than  160  members  were  rarely  present  and  the  ruling 
party  did  not  have  a  majority  in  the  body,  the  parliament  was 
proving  unable  to  act  decisively  on  major  legislative  issues. 
Moreover,  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  parliament  (165)  is 
needed  to  override  a  presidential  veto.  In  the  absence  of  a  con- 
stitution, however,  the  parliament  has  issued  laws  regulating 
the  relations  and  powers  of  the  branches  of  government. 

The  Presidium,  the  parliament's  executive  body,  administers 
parliament  when  it  is  not  in  session.  The  Presidium  is  made  up 
of  the  president  of  the  republic  (whose  title  is  also  chairman  of 
parliament),  two  deputies,  the  secretary  of  the  parliament,  and 
the  twelve  chairmen  of  the  permanent  parliamentary  commit- 
tees. Often  laws  are  initiated  by  the  president  of  the  republic, 
sent  to  the  Presidium  for  review,  and  then  passed  on  to  appro- 
priate committees  before  being  reviewed  and  voted  upon  by 
the  whole  parliament.  (Besides  permanent  committees,  the 
parliament  can  create  temporary  committees  to  deal  with  spe- 
cific issues.) 

Once  parliament  passes  a  law,  the  president  of  the  republic, 
who  also  may  participate  in  parliamentary  debates,  must  sign 
or  veto  within  two  weeks.  In  early  1994,  parliament  had  not  yet 
passed  legislation  replacing  Soviet-era  laws  in  several  major 
areas:  criminal  and  civil  codes,  administrative  violations,  mar- 


58 


Armenia 


riage  and  family,  labor  rights  and  practices,  land  tenure,  and 
housing. 

The  Presidency 

As  it  has  developed  in  the  1990s,  the  Armenian  presidency  is 
the  most  powerful  position  in  government.  More  than  a  cere- 
monial head  of  state,  the  president  is  the  most  active  proposer 
of  new  legislation,  the  chief  architect  of  foreign  and  military 
policy,  and,  during  Armenia's  prolonged  state  of  national 
emergency,  the  unchallenged  center  of  government  power  in 
many  areas. 

Levon  Ter-Petrosian,  a  former  philologist  and  a  founding 
member  of  the  Karabakh  Committee,  became  the  first  presi- 
dent of  independent  Armenia  in  1991.  Ter-Petrosian  has  occu- 
pied the  political  center  of  Armenian  politics  as  the  single  most 
important  politician  in  the  country  and  the  principal  advocate 
of  moderate  policies  in  the  face  of  nationalist  emotionalism. 
The  parliamentary  plurality  that  Ter-Petrosian's  party,  the 
Armenian  Pannational  Movement  (APM),  enjoyed  at  the  for- 
mation of  the  republic  in  1991  enhanced  presidential  authority 
at  the  expense  of  parliament,  where  the  majority  of  seats  were 
divided  among  many  parties.  Beginning  in  1992,  Ter-Petrosian 
took  several  controversial  unilateral  actions  on  major  issues, 
which  brought  accusations  of  abuse  of  power. 

State  Administrative  Bodies 

The  Council  of  Ministers,  which  performs  the  everyday 
activities  of  the  executive  branch  of  government,  is  presided 
over  by  the  prime  minister,  who  reports  directly  to  the  presi- 
dent and  to  parliament.  The  prime  minister  is  named  by  the 
president  but  must  be  approved  by  parliament.  The  members 
of  the  council  are  appointed  by  joint  decision  of  the  president 
and  the  prime  minister. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  underwent  a  series  of  changes  in 
the  early  1990s  as  Ter-Petrosian  sought  a  prime  minister  with 
whom  he  could  work  effectively.  As  a  result,  four  men  occupied 
that  position  between  1991  and  1993.  The  principal  source  of 
friction  within  government  circles  is  factional  disagreement 
about  the  appropriate  elements  and  pace  of  economic  reform. 
In  the  first  years  of  independence,  most  of  the  members  of  the 
council  have  belonged  to  the  APM.  In  1994  the  Council  of  Min- 
isters included  the  following  ministries:  agriculture,  architec- 
ture and  urban  planning,  communications,  construction, 


59 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

culture,  defense,  economics,  education,  energy  and  fuel,  envi- 
ronment, finance,  food  and  state  procurement,  foreign  affairs, 
health,  higher  education  and  science,  industry,  internal  affairs, 
justice,  labor  and  social  security,  light  industry,  national  secu- 
rity, natural  resources,  trade,  and  transportation. 

In  addition  to  the  regular  ministries,  state  ministries  coordi- 
nate the  activities  of  ministries  having  overlapping  jurisdic- 
tions. State  ministers  rank  higher  than  regular  ministers.  In 
1994  there  were  six  state  ministries:  agriculture,  construction, 
energy  and  fuel,  humanitarian  assistance,  military  affairs,  and 
science  and  culture.  State  agencies  have  responsibilities  similar 
to  those  of  ministries,  but  they  are  appointed  by  and  report 
directly  to  the  president.  Seven  state  agencies  were  operating 
in  1994. 

The  Judiciary 

With  no  constitution  in  place,  the  structure  of  the  new 
Armenian  judiciary  remains  unformalized.  Most  judges  are 
holdovers  from  the  Soviet  period,  and  the  power  to  appoint 
judges  has  not  been  decided  between  the  legislative  and  execu- 
tive branches.  Appointment  and  training  of  new  judges  are 
high  priorities  in  replacing  the  Soviet  judicial  system  with  an 
independent  judiciary. 

District  courts  are  the  courts  of  first  instance.  Their  judges 
are  named  by  the  president  and  confirmed  by  the  parliament. 
The  Supreme  Court,  whose  chief  justice  is  nominated  by  the 
president  and  elected  by  a  simple  majority  of  parliament,  pro- 
vides intermediate  and  final  appellate  review  of  cases.  The 
court  includes  a  three-member  criminal  chamber  and  a  three- 
member  civil  chamber  for  intermediate  review  and  an  eleven- 
member  presidium  for  final  review.  The  full,  thirty-two-mem- 
ber court  provides  plenary  appellate  review. 

The  general  prosecutor  is  nominated  by  the  president  and 
elected  by  parliament.  The  general  prosecutor's  office  moves 
cases  from  lower  to  higher  courts,  oversees  investigations,  pros- 
ecutes federal  cases,  and  has  a  broad  mandate  to  monitor  the 
activities  of  all  state  and  legal  entities  and  individual  citizens. 
The  general  prosecutor  appoints  district  attorneys,  the  chief 
legal  officers  at  the  district  level. 

The  Constitution 

As  of  early  1994,  adoption  of  a  constitution  for  the  Republic 
of  Armenia  remained  a  controversial  and  unresolved  project. 


60 


Armenia 


In  the  meantime,  the  1978  constitution,  a  replica  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  1977  document,  remained  in  effect  except  in  cases 
where  specific  legislation  superseded  it.  At  the  end  of  1992,  the 
president  and  the  APM  parliamentary  delegates  presented  a 
draft  constitution.  They  put  forward  a  revised  version  in  March 
1993.  Then,  after  nearly  a  year's  work,  a  bloc  of  six  opposition 
parties  led  by  the  Armenian  Revolutionary  Federation  (ARF) 
presented  an  alternative  constitution  in  January  1994  that 
would  expand  the  parliament's  power,  limit  that  of  the  presi- 
dent, expand  the  authority  of  local  government,  allow  Arme- 
nians everywhere  to  participate  in  governing  the  republic,  and 
seek  international  recognition  of  the  1915  massacre.  As  1994 
began,  observers  expected  a  long  struggle  before  parliament 
adopted  a  final  version. 

Local  Government 

The  republic  is  divided  into  thirty-seven  districts,  or  gavar- 
ner,  each  of  which  has  a  legislative  and  administrative  branch 
replicating  the  national  structures.  Pending  adoption  of  a  new 
constitution  prescribing  a  division  of  power,  however,  all  major 
decisions  are  made  by  the  central  government  and  are  merely 
implemented  by  the  district  administrations. 

Political  Parties 

During  Armenia's  seventy  years  as  a  Soviet  republic,  only 
one  party,  the  Communist  Party  of  Armenia  (CPA),  was 
allowed  legal  status.  As  a  branch  of  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Soviet  Union,  it  ruled  under  the  direct  orders  of  the  leadership 
in  Moscow.  Following  the  collapse  of  communist  authority,  two 
major  parties  and  dozens  of  minor  ones  competed  for  popular- 
ity along  with  the  remnants  of  the  CPA. 

In  the  years  following  independence,  the  most  vocal  and 
powerful  opposition  party  was  the  Armenian  Revolutionary 
Federation  (ARF).  Founded  in  1890,  the  ARF  was  the  ruling 
party  in  the  Republic  of  Armenia  in  1918-20;  forbidden  under 
the  communist  regimes,  the  ARF  built  a  strong  support  net- 
work in  the  Armenian  diaspora.  When  the  party  again  became 
legal  in  1991,  its  foreign  supporters  enabled  it  to  gain  influ- 
ence in  Armenia  out  of  proportion  to  its  estimated  member- 
ship of  40,000.  With  a  platform  calling  for  a  coalition 
government,  greater  power  for  the  parliament  at  the  expense 
of  the  executive,  and  a  strong  social  welfare  program,  the  ARF 
gained  eighteen  seats  in  the  1992  parliamentary  election. 


61 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

The  Liberal  Democratic  Party  (LDP),  founded  in  1921,  calls 
for  privatizing  the  economy  and  rapidly  establishing  all  possi- 
ble conditions  for  a  free-market  economy.  It  also  backs  a  strong 
system  of  state  social  welfare  and  recognition  of  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh's independence.  The  LDP  had  seventeen  seats  in  parlia- 
ment in  1994. 

Former  dissident  Pariur  Hairikian  heads  the  National 
Self-Determination  Union,  which  has  called  for  a  coalition  gov- 
ernment based  on  proportional  representation  of  each  party. 
With  only  one  seat  in  parliament,  the  union  takes  a  radical- 
right  position  on  most  issues.  Extreme  nationalist  parties  with 
racist  ideologies  also  have  small  followings.  Most  opposition 
parties  have  been  critical  of  Ter-Petrosian's  Nagorno-Karabakh 
policy;  in  1992  they  formed  the  so-called  National  Alliance  to 
coordinate  their  foreign  policy  positions.  Because  of  parlia- 
ment's institutional  weakness,  oppositionists  frequently  have 
organized  massive  public  rallies  demanding  the  president's  res- 
ignation. 

In  the  first  years  of  independence,  the  ruling  elite  came  pri- 
marily from  the  Armenian  Pannational  Movement  (APM),  the 
umbrella  organization  that  grew  out  of  the  Karabakh  move- 
ment. In  the  1992  parliamentary  election,  the  APM  gained 
fifty-five  seats,  easily  giving  it  a  plurality  but  leaving  it  vulnera- 
ble when  opposition  coalitions  formed  on  individual  issues. 
The  next  largest  delegation,  that  of  the  ARF,  had  twelve  seats. 
In  1993  the  failure  of  Ter-Petrosian's  government  to  bring  the 
Karabakh  conflict  to  an  end,  its  own  willingness  to  compromise 
on  the  Karabakh  question,  and  the  daily  grind  of  fuel  and  food 
shortages  reduced  the  popularity  of  the  ruling  nationalist 
movement. 

Human  Rights 

In  April  1991,  Armenia  signed  the  International  Covenant 
of  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  accepted  it  as  domestic  law, 
superseding  all  existing  laws  on  the  subject.  That  covenant 
includes  the  right  to  counsel;  the  presumption  of  innocence  of 
the  accused;  the  right  to  privacy;  prohibition  of  arbitrary  arrest; 
freedom  of  the  press,  religion,  political  expression  and  assem- 
bly, and  movement;  minority  rights;  and  prohibition  of  discrim- 
ination. Since  1991  specific  legislation  has  further  guaranteed 
freedom  of  the  press  and  prohibited  discrimination  in  educa- 
tion, language,  and  employment.  Rights  of  the  accused,  how- 


62 


Armenia 


ever,  remain  undefined  pending  Armenia's  acceptance  of 
international  conventions  on  that  subject. 

In  1993  several  human  rights  organizations  were  active  in 
Armenia:  the  Helsinki  Assembly,  which  represented  the  inter- 
national Helsinki  Watch;  the  League  of  Human  Rights;  parlia- 
ment's Committee  on  Human  Rights;  a  national  group  called 
Avangard;  and  a  branch  of  the  international  Sakharov  Fund. 

In  1993  the  National  Self-Determination  Union  accused  the 
Ter-Petrosian  government  of  a  state  terrorism  policy  that 
included  the  assassination  of  individuals  within  the  union  and 
others  opposed  to  government  policy.  The  most  publicized 
incident  was  the  murder  in  1993  of  Marius  Yuzbashian,  a 
former  chief  of  the  Armenian  branch  of  the  Committee  for 
State  Security  (Komitet  gosudarstvennoi  bezopasnosti — KGB). 

The  Media 

In  the  Soviet  era,  the  officially  sanctioned  source  of  public 
information  was  Armenpress,  the  state  news  agency  assigned  to 
disseminate  the  propaganda  of  the  CPA.  In  the  post-Soviet 
years,  Armenpress  has  remained  the  primary  source  of  infor- 
mation for  independent  newspapers  in  Armenia  and  for  peri- 
odicals in  the  diaspora.  Under  those  conditions,  the  agency  has 
required  continued  state  funding  to  maintain  its  information 
flow  to  foreign  customers,  of  whom  seventeen  had  reciprocal 
information  supply  agreements  with  Armenpress  in  early  1994. 
Meanwhile,  the  agency  has  adopted  a  more  neutral  position  in 
its  reporting. 

Early  in  1994,  the  Ministry  of  Justice  reported  that  twenty- 
four  magazines,  nine  radio  stations,  twenty-five  press  agencies, 
and  232  newspapers  were  active.  Several  national  newspapers 
represent  a  variety  of  political  viewpoints.  Hayastani  Hanrapetu- 
tiun  (Republic  of  Armenia)  is  the  official  daily  newspaper  of 
the  Supreme  Soviet,  published  in  Armenian  and  Russian  ver- 
sions. Golos  Armenii  (The  Voice  of  Armenia),  published  daily  in 
Russian,  is  the  official  organ  of  the  CPA.  Azatamart  (Struggle 
for  Freedom)  and  Hazatamart  (Battle  for  Freedom)  are  weekly 
organs  of  the  ARF.  Hazg  (Nation)  is  published  by  the  Party  of 
Democratic  Freedom.  Other  newspapers  include  Grakan  Text 
(Literary  Paper),  published  by  the  Armenian  Union  of  Writers; 
Hayk  (Armenia),  a  publication  of  the  APM;  Ria  Taze  (New 
Way);  and  Yerokoian  Yerevan  (Evening  Erevan).  In  1993  thirteen 
major  magazines  and  journals  covered  science  and  technology, 
politics,  art,  culture,  and  economics;  the  group  also  included 


63 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

one  satirical  journal,  one  journal  for  teenagers,  and  one  for 
working  women. 

Foreign  Relations 

While  it  has  been  engaged  in  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  con- 
flict with  Azerbaijan,  Armenia  also  has  sought  international  sta- 
tus and  security  in  new  bilateral  relations  and  membership  in 
international  organizations.  In  the  first  years  of  independence, 
Armenia  became  a  member  of  the  UN,  the  IMF,  the  World 
Bank,  the  CSCE,  and  the  CIS.  Located  in  a  region  that  is 
already  unstable,  in  the  early  1990s  the  three  republics  of  Tran- 
scaucasia gained  the  attention  of  world  leaders  because  of  the 
potential  for  a  wider  war  on  the  northern  tier  of  the  Middle 
Eastern  states.  The  resulting  aid  and  efforts  at  mediation  have 
had  mixed  results. 

Azerbaijan 

Since  the  outbreak  of  fighting  in  1988,  Nagorno-Karabakh 
has  been  the  principal  foreign  policy  issue  for  Armenia,  creat- 
ing a  huge  drain  on  its  financial  and  human  resources.  By  the 
end  of  1993,  estimates  of  the  number  killed  in  the  conflict 
ranged  from  3,000  to  10,000.  The  fighting  between  Armenians 
and  Azerbaijanis  repeatedly  has  threatened  to  involve  not  only 
other  CIS  member  states  but  also  Turkey  and  Iran,  whose  bor- 
ders have  been  approached  and  even  crossed  during  the  con- 
flict. 

In  a  speech  to  the  UN  in  September  1992,  Ter-Petrosian 
stated  his  government's  official  position  that  Armenia  had  no 
territorial  claims  against  Azerbaijan,  but  that  the  people  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh  could  not  be  denied  the  right  of 
self-determination.  Advocating  the  protection  of  the  region  by 
means  of  permanent  international  guarantees,  Armenia 
repeatedly  called  for  cease-fires  and  negotiations  between  Azer- 
baijan and  Nagorno-Karabakh,  and  between  Armenia  and 
Azerbaijan,  to  resolve  the  issue.  In  1992  the  Armenian  parlia- 
ment passed  a  law  prohibiting  the  government  from  signing 
any  document  recognizing  Azerbaijani  authority  over  Kara- 
bakh.  But  at  that  point,  Ter-Petrosian  resisted  advocating 
Armenian  recognition  of  Karabakh's  independence,  which 
would  raise  yet  another  obstacle  to  peace. 

The  ARF,  the  party  most  supportive  of  the  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh government  and  its  army,  called  for  more  forceful  prose- 
cution of  the  war  and  recognition  of  the  independent  status  of 


64 


Armenia 


Karabakh.  In  early  1993,  the  ARF  began  advocating  a  binding 
referendum  on  the  status  of  the  region  rather  than  its  return  to 
Armenia. 

In  1993  the  CSCE  made  repeated  but  fruitless  efforts  to 
maintain  cease-fires  and  to  bring  the  warring  parties  together 
for  peace  talks.  Although  years  of  preliminary  discussions  had 
finally  resolved  the  details  of  how  a  conference  would  be  held, 
the  negotiations  of  the  CSCE's  multinational  Minsk  Group  had 
not  resulted  in  a  single  meeting  by  the  end  of  1993.  There  were 
other  efforts  at  peacemaking.  A  joint  meeting  of  thirty-three 
states  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO — see 
Glossary)  and  the  former  Warsaw  Pact  (see  Glossary) 
expressed  its  concern,  Iran  attempted  separate  mediation 
between  Azerbaijan  and  Armenia,  and  Russian  and  CIS  leaders 
(most  notably  Russia's  President  Boris  N.  Yeltsin)  also  negoti- 
ated brief  cease-fires.  In  1993  Ter-Petrosian  also  maintained 
telephone  contact  with  Azerbaijan's  president,  Heydar  Aliyev. 

The  situation  was  complicated  by  the  often  unpredictable 
actions  of  the  government  in  Nagorno-Karabakh.  In  December 
1991,  Nagorno-Karabakh  declared  itself  an  independent  state, 
and  its  armed  forces  often  operated  independently  of  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  Republic  of  Armenia.  However,  the  region  and 
its  army  remained  largely  dependent  on  food,  medicine,  weap- 
ons, and  moral  support  from  Armenia,  especially  from  the 
ARF. 

Georgia,  Iran,  and  Turkey 

Armenians  have  long  been  a  significant  part  of  the  urban 
population  of  Georgia,  particularly  in  Tbilisi.  Two  districts  in 
southern  Georgia  are  predominantly  Armenian.  The  dictato- 
rial regime  of  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia,  which  ruled  Georgia  from 
late  1990  until  early  January  1992,  was  extremely  intolerant  of 
all  ethnic  minorities.  More  than  70,000  Armenians  were  caught 
in  the  crossfire  of  the  Georgian  government's  conflict  with 
Abkhazian  separatists,  which  reached  crisis  proportions  in  the 
fall  of  1993.  In  this  struggle,  extreme  Georgian  nationalists 
attempted  to  drive  the  Armenian  population  from  the  country 
in  order  to  create  a  homogeneous  Georgia.  The  crisis  in  Ab- 
khazia had  immediate  repercussions  for  Armenia  when  fight- 
ing resulted  in  the  severing  of  Georgia's  Black  Sea  railroad,  a 
lifeline  from  Russia  to  Armenia.  The  republic  thus  was  cut  off 
from  many  supplies,  particularly  grain.  In  early  1993,  when  a 
natural  gas  pipeline  running  through  Georgia  was  repeatedly 


65 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

blown  up,  the  Armenian  government  sharply  demanded  that 
the  Georgian  leader,  Eduard  Shevardnadze,  make  a  greater 
effort  to  secure  the  necessary  flow  of  gas  to  Armenia. 

Armenia  has  had  better  relations  with  Iran,  although  Iran 
has  been  worried  about  the  presence  of  Armenian  troops  occu- 
pying Azerbaijani  territory  just  across  its  border.  Two-thirds  of 
the  world's  Azerbaijanis  live  in  Iran,  and  the  Tehran  govern- 
ment fears  that  emigres  would  spread  Azerbaijani  nationalism 
among  the  Azerbaijani  population  of  northern  Iran.  Armenian 
troops  have  at  times  been  no  more  than  twenty  kilometers 
from  the  Iranian  border.  On  several  occasions,  Iran  attempted 
to  mediate  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  but  unforeseen 
actions  by  the  Karabakh  forces  frustrated  these  efforts. 

Armenia's  traditional  enemy  in  the  twentieth  century  has 
been  Turkey.  Among  outstanding  sources  of  conflict,  the  most 
painful  and  long-lasting  has  been  the  Turkish  refusal  to  recog- 
nize the  deportations  and  massacres  of  Ottoman  Armenians  in 
1915  as  a  deliberate,  state-sponsored  act  of  genocide.  Many 
Armenians,  particularly  those  associated  with  the  ARF,  aspire  to 
restore  Armenian  control  over  the  lands  of  historical  Armenia 
that  are  now  under  Turkish  sovereignty.  Although  many  Arme- 
nian emigres  remain  hostile  toward  Turkey  today,  the  Ter- 
Petrosian  government  has  made  improved  relations  with 
Ankara  a  high  priority  because  of  the  possibility  of  opening 
new  supply  routes  and  hard-currency  markets  for  Armenian 
products. 

Although  no  Armenian  politician  is  willing  to  retract  the 
demand  that  the  Ottoman  genocide  of  1915  be  acknowledged, 
those  around  the  Armenian  president  have  resisted  raising 
issues  likely  to  alienate  Turkey.  In  late  1992,  when  Foreign  Min- 
ister Raffi  Hovannisian  spoke  about  the  outstanding  differ- 
ences between  Turks  and  Armenians  in  a  speech  in  Istanbul, 
he  was  swiftly  removed  from  office.  On  the  Nagorno-Karabakh 
issue,  the  Turkish  government  usually  has  sided  with  Azer- 
baijan, particularly  during  the  time  of  the  Azerbaijani  Popular 
Front  government  in  Baku  (May  1992-June  1993).  Nationalist 
voices  in  Turkey  have  protested  Armenian  advances  against 
Azerbaijan,  and  periodically  Turkey  has  prevented  Western 
humanitarian  aid  from  reaching  Armenia.  Turkish  nationalist 
factions  also  have  accused  Armenia  of  aiding  Kurdish  rebels  in 
eastern  Turkey. 


66 


Armenia 


The  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States 

Increasingly  through  the  early  1990s,  the  Republic  of  Arme- 
nia's isolation  led  the  government  to  look  for  allies  beyond 
Transcaucasia.  Ter-Petrosian  appealed  to  foreign  governments 
and  to  Armenians  abroad  for  material  aid  to  carry  the  people 
through  the  harsh  winters.  As  the  rapprochement  with  Turkey 
in  1991-92  brought  few  concrete  benefits,  Armenia  steadily 
gravitated  toward  a  closer  relationship  with  Russia.  Early  in 
1993,  Ter-Petrosian  met  with  Yeltsin  in  Moscow  to  discuss  deliv- 
eries of  oil  and  natural  gas  to  the  blockaded  republic.  The  Rus- 
sian minister  of  defense,  Pavel  Grachev,  negotiated  a  brief 
cease-fire  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  in  April.  Armenia  remained  in 
the  ruble  zone,  the  group  of  countries  still  using  Russian  rubles 
as  domestic  currency,  often  in  parallel  with  a  new  national  cur- 
rency such  as  Armenia's  dram.  In  1992  and  1993,  large-scale 
credit  payments  from  the  Central  Bank  of  Russia  were  vital  in 
supporting  Armenia's  national  budget. 

Immediately  after  Armenia  declared  itself  independent, 
Ter-Petrosian  joined  in  an  economic  community  with  seven 
other  republics — but  he  refused  to  enter  a  political  union  at 
that  point.  In  December  1991,  however,  he  signed  the  Alma- 
Ata  Declaration,  making  Armenia  a  founding  member  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS).  From  that  time, 
Armenia  has  played  an  active  role  in  the  CIS,  signing  an  accord 
on  military  cooperation  with  Russia,  Kazakhstan,  Tajikistan, 
Kyrgyzstan,  and  Uzbekistan. 

In  May  1993,  Ter-Petrosian  announced  Armenia's  support 
of  a  Russo-Turkish-American  plan  for  settlement  of  the  Kara- 
bakh  conflict.  When  Aliyev  returned  to  power  in  June,  Ter- 
Petrosian  spoke  by  telephone  directly  with  the  new  leader  of 
Azerbaijan,  and  together  they  agreed  that  Azerbaijan  and 
Nagorno-Karabakh  must  begin  direct  negotiations.  Azer- 
baijan's entry  into  the  CIS  in  September  1993  was  seen  by  some 
as  giving  Russia  a  mandate  to  solve  the  Karabakh  problem.  Ter- 
Petrosian  reiterated  his  conditions  for  peace:  Karabakh  was  to 
be  recognized  as  a  full  party  to  the  negotiations,  all  blockades 
were  to  be  ended,  and  the  CSCE-sponsored  Minsk  Group  nego- 
tiations were  to  settle  all  political  and  legal  questions  on  the  sta- 
tus of  Karabakh. 

Russia  was  a  logical  mediator.  Not  only  did  it  have  military 
bases  and  equipment  in  the  region,  but  Russian  troops  were 
still  guarding  the  border  between  Armenia  and  Turkey.  Russia 
consistently  asserted  its  hegemonic  role  in  Transcaucasia, 


67 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

opposed  the  designs  of  Turkey  and  Iran  in  the  region,  and  was 
even  wary  of  the  United  States  being  a  mediator  in  the  region 
without  specific  Russian  invitation  or  acquiescence.  After 
Yeltsin  won  a  struggle  with  the  Russian  parliament  in  Septem- 
ber 1993  and  both  Georgia  and  Azerbaijan  had  joined  the  CIS, 
Russia  resumed  its  role  as  the  primary  mediator  of  conflicts  in 
Transcaucasia. 

Russia  has  asserted  hegemony  in  the  region  in  several  ways. 
It  has  repeatedly  claimed  the  right  to  protect  the  major  link 
from  Russia  to  Armenia  that  passes  through  conflict-plagued 
Abkhazia  and  Georgia.  In  September  1993,  Russia  requested  a 
revision  of  the  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  Treaty  (CFE 
Treaty — see  Glossary),  which  had  been  negotiated  between 
NATO  and  the  Warsaw  Pact  in  1990,  in  order  to  achieve  an 
increase  in  the  number  of  Russian  tanks  and  heavy  weapons  in 
the  Caucasus.  Although  NATO  perceived  an  increased  military 
influence  in  the  formulation  of  this  more  assertive  Russian  pol- 
icy, Western  policy  makers  recognized  that  at  the  end  of  1993 
Russia  was  the  only  power  in  position  to  play  a  meaningful 
peacekeeping  role  in  the  region. 

The  United  States 

Independent  Armenia  enjoys  good  relations  with  the 
United  States  and  the  European  Union  (EU).  The  United 
States  recognized  the  Republic  of  Armenia  in  December  1991, 
and  a  United  States  embassy  opened  in  Erevan  in  February 
1992.  General  United  States  and  Armenian  strategic  interests 
in  common  include  the  promotion  of  internal  democracy,  just 
termination  of  the  Karabakh  conflict,  and  stability  in  the 
former  Soviet  Union  that  would  prevent  the  resurgence  of  an 
authoritarian,  imperialist  Russia.  United  States  policy  toward 
Armenia  must  weigh  the  special  relationships  of  the  United 
States  with  Russia  and  NATO  ally  Turkey.  In  the  first  post-Soviet 
years,  the  United  States  has  given  more  aid  per  capita  to  Arme- 
nia than  to  any  other  former  Soviet  republic.  At  the  same  time, 
the  United  States  has  withheld  trade  privileges  from  Azerbaijan 
because  of  that  country's  economic  blockade  of  Armenia. 

Armenians  have  been  able  to  influence  American  policy  to  a 
limited  degree  through  the  diaspora  in  the  United  States,  but 
their  interests  and  those  of  the  United  States  are  not  always 
congruent.  Given  its  special  relationship  with  Turkey,  the 
United  States  has  been  reluctant  to  recognize  the  events  of 
1915  as  genocide.  On  several  occasions,  the  United  States  criti- 


68 


Loading  butter  from  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  onto 
Armenian  trucks  at  Zvartnots  Airport,  near  Erevan,  after  collapse  of 

Soviet  Union,  February  1992 
Courtesy  A.  James  Firth,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

cized  Armenian  aggression  against  Azerbaijan  outside  of  Kara- 
bakh.  Yet  both  the  United  States  and  Russia,  as  well  as  the 
CSCE  countries  in  general,  agree  that  a  solution  to  the  Kara- 
bakh  conflict  must  be  based  on  recognition  of  existing  borders 
and  the  rights  of  minorities. 

In  the  first  winters  of  the  1990s,  many  Armenians  were  on 
the  brink  of  starvation,  and  the  basic  needs  of  the  population 
were  sustained  only  through  foreign  aid.  In  December  1991, 
the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  and  the  Diocese 
of  the  Armenian  Church  in  America  arranged  for  the  diocese 
to  distribute  food  shipments  valued  at  US$15  million  in  Arme- 
nia. Through  Operation  Provide  Hope,  the  United  States  gov- 
ernment sent  food  and  medical  supplies  worth  over  US$6 
million  to  Armenia  in  the  first  eight  months  of  1992.  When  the 


69 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID) 
authorized  US$1  million  to  the  American  Bar  Association  for  a 
program  to  provide  legal  experts  to  the  member  states  of  the 
CIS,  Armenia  became  the  first  country  where  legislators 
worked  with  these  legal  specialists.  The  Peace  Corps  arrived  in 
Erevan  in  August  1992,  followed  in  the  fall  by  AID  and  the 
United  States  Information  Agency  (USIA). 

National  Security 

As  a  nation,  Armenia  has  not  had  a  great  tradition  of  mili- 
tary success,  even  at  the  largest  extent  of  the  Armenian 
Empire.  In  the  Soviet  period,  Armenian  troops  were  thor- 
oughly integrated  into  the  Soviet  army,  and  Armenian  plants 
contributed  sophisticated  equipment  to  Soviet  arsenals.  After 
independence  Armenia  profited  from  some  aspects  of  this 
close  association,  and  a  strong  Russian  military  presence  is 
expected  to  remain  for  some  time. 

Geopolitical  Situation 

As  a  small  country,  Armenia  has  had  an  unfavorable  geopo- 
litical situation,  with  no  neighbors  likely  to  provide  support 
and  security.  Lacking  an  outlet  to  the  sea,  Armenia  is  sur- 
rounded by  Muslim  Turkey  and  Azerbaijan,  both  of  which  gen- 
erally have  been  hostile  to  Armenia's  interests:  the  militant 
Islamic  republic  of  Iran;  and  a  Georgia  torn  by  civil  war.  By 
1990  Armenia's  traditional  reliance  on  Russia  had  weakened 
because  of  internal  political  conditions — the  Karabakh  move- 
ment had  an  anti-Russian  orientation — and  because  of  the 
retreat  of  post-Soviet  Russia  from  military  involvement  on 
many  fronts. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  major  external  threat  to  Armenia 
came  from  Azerbaijan.  A  state  with  twice  the  population  of 
Armenia,  with  significant  unrecovered  oil  reserves  in  the  Cas- 
pian Sea,  and  with  great  potential  for  securing  Western  capital 
for  industrial  development,  Azerbaijan  possessed  considerable 
resources  with  which  to  fight  a  long  war  in  Karabakh.  In  early 
1994,  the  Armenian  Army  was  considered  the  most  combat- 
ready  force  in  the  three  states  of  Transcaucasia.  However, 
experts  attributed  Armenian  combat  successes  in  the  conflict 
in  1992-93  to  the  political  instability  in  Baku,  to  regional  divi- 
sions within  Azerbaijan,  and  to  the  greater  unity  and  determi- 
nation of  the  Armenian  forces  in  Karabakh  (see  Forming  a 
National  Defense  Force,  ch.  2). 


70 


Armenia 


In  the  years  following  independence,  Armenia  saw  its  future 
security  based  on  ending  the  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh, 
improving  its  relations  with  all  its  neighbors,  and  gaining  aid 
and  support  from  the  great  global  powers  and  organizations — 
the  United  States,  Russia,  the  CSCE,  and  the  UN.  Once  it 
joined  the  CIS,  Armenia  adhered  to  the  organization's  security 
arrangements.  In  March  1992,  Armenia  joined  Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan,  and  Russia  in  an  agreement  on  the  status  of  gen- 
eral-purpose forces,  and  it  joined  seven  other  CIS  republics  in 
an  agreement  on  the  financing,  supply,  production,  and  devel- 
opment of  military  equipment.  On  May  15,  1992,  Armenia, 
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Russia,  Tajikistan,  and  Uzbekistan  met 
in  Tashkent  and  signed  the  Treaty  on  Collective  Security. 
According  to  this  pact,  former  Soviet  armed  forces  were  per- 
mitted to  remain  in  the  signatory  republics  by  mutual  agree- 
ment. Armenia  and  several  other  republics  agreed  to 
apportion  former  Soviet  weapons  to  conform  to  the  CFE 
Treaty.  By  that  agreement,  Armenia  was  to  receive  875  units  of 
heavy  materiel  (tanks,  artillery,  aircraft,  and  helicopters),  the 
same  number  as  Georgia  and  Azerbaijan. 

Armenia's  location  between  two  larger  states,  Russia  and 
Turkey,  has  long  forced  it  to  orient  its  policies  to  favor  one  or 
the  other.  Until  the  late  Soviet  period,  Armenia  generally 
favored  its  Orthodox  neighbor  and  depended  on  the  Russian 
or  Soviet  state  for  its  national  security.  In  1945  Stalin  raised  the 
matter  of  regaining  Armenian  territory  from  Turkey,  but  the 
issue  quietly  expired  with  the  dictator  in  1953.  After  indepen- 
dence was  officially  proclaimed  in  1991,  Armenia's  member- 
ship in  the  new  CIS  became  a  national  security  issue  because  it 
seemingly  prolonged  Russian  occupation.  The  prevailing  view 
in  the  early  1990s,  however,  was  that  isolation  from  reliable  alli- 
ances was  the  greater  threat. 

In  the  decades  after  World  War  II,  relations  between  Arme- 
nians and  Turks  degenerated.  The  Turks  became  embittered 
by  acts  of  Armenian  terrorism  against  Turkish  citizens  in  other 
countries,  especially  in  the  1970s,  which  served  to  remind  the 
world  of  the  genocide  issue.  Starting  in  the  1980s,  Turkey 
began  aspiring  to  play  a  major  role  in  European  affairs  and  to 
exert  leadership  among  the  Central  Asian  Muslim  nations  that 
emerged  from  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  early  1990s.  These  for- 
eign policy  goals  encouraged  Turkish  ambivalence  toward 
Armenian  objectives  in  Nagorno-Karabakh.  However,  tradi- 
tional Turkish  nationalism  demanded  alliance  with  Muslim 


71 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Azerbaijan,  and  eastern  Turkey  remained  a  heavily  fortified 
area  after  the  end  of  the  Cold  War — about  50,000  Turkish 
troops  were  on  the  Armenian  border  in  early  1994.  In  turn, 
Armenia  saw  its  collective  security  treaty  with  the  CIS  and  the 
presence  of  Russian  troops  in  Armenia  as  restraints  on  the 
nationalist  impulse  in  Turkish  policy  making. 

The  Military 

Influenced  by  the  requirements  of  supporting  the  forces  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh  against  Azerbaijan  and  the  long-term  objec- 
tive of  military  self-reliance,  Armenia  has  worked  toward  mak- 
ing the  Armenian  Army  a  small,  well-balanced,  combat-ready 
defense  force.  Chief  architects  of  the  force  were  General  Norat 
Ter-Grigoriants,  a  former  Soviet  deputy  chief  of  staff  who 
became  overall  commander  of  the  new  Armenian  Army; 
Vazgan  Sarkisian,  named  the  first  minister  of  defense;  and 
Vazgan  Manukian,  who  replaced  Sarkisian  in  1992. 

As  expressed  by  the  military  establishment  during  the  plan- 
ning stage,  Armenia's  military  doctrine  called  for  maintenance 
of  defensive  self-sufficiency  that  would  enable  its  army  to  repel 
an  attack  by  forces  from  Azerbaijan  or  Turkey,  or  both.  That 
concept  was  refuted,  however,  by  radical  nationalists  who  advo- 
cated a  more  aggressive  posture,  similar  to  that  of  the  Israeli 
army  in  defending  a  "surrounded"  land,  of  maintaining  the 
armed  forces  at  a  high  degree  of  readiness  to  inflict  crippling 
losses  on  an  enemy  within  days.  Both  doctrines  emphasized 
small,  highly  mobile,  well-trained  units.  The  specific  outcome 
of  the  debate  over  military  doctrine  has  been  concealed  as  a 
matter  of  national  security.  Although  legislation  on  defense 
forces  called  for  1  percent  of  the  population  to  be  in  the  armed 
forces,  active-duty  strength  in  1994  was  estimated  at  20,000, 
including  border  troops.  By  that  time,  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
had  increased  its  goal  to  a  standing  army  of  50,000,  to  be  sup- 
plemented in  wartime  by  a  reserve  call-up. 

A  top  defense  priority  in  1994  was  improving  control  of  the 
Zangezur  region,  the  vulnerable,  far  southeastern  corridor  bor- 
dering Iran  and  flanked  by  Azerbaijan's  Nakhichevan  Autono- 
mous Republic  and  Azerbaijan  proper.  The  program  for 
Zangezur  includes  new  military  installations,  especially  on  the 
Iranian  border,  as  well  as  a  new  bridge  and  a  new  natural  gas 
pipeline  into  Iran. 

The  army  and  the  Ministry  of  Defense  have  structures  simi- 
lar to  those  of  their  counterparts  in  the  former  Soviet  Union, 


72 


Armenia 


except  that  the  highest  organizational  level  of  the  Armenian 
forces  is  a  smaller  unit,  the  brigade,  rather  than  the  traditional 
division,  to  maximize  maneuverability.  Plans  call  for  brigades  of 
1,500  to  2,500  troops  to  be  divided  into  three  or  four  battal- 
ions, in  the  manner  of  the  paramilitary  forces  of  the  Karabakh 
Armenians. 

Regular  Forces 

In  1992  the  Ministry  of  Defense  appealed  to  Armenian  offic- 
ers who  had  had  commissions  in  the  Soviet  army  to  help  form 
the  new  force  to  defend  their  homeland  against  Azerbaijan  and 
to  build  a  permanent  national  army.  Although  substantial  spe- 
cial benefits  were  offered,  the  new  professional  officer  corps 
was  not  staffed  as  fully  as  hoped  in  its  first  two  years.  In  espe- 
cially short  supply  were  officer  specialists  in  military  organiza- 
tional development — a  critical  need  in  the  army's  formative 
stage.  In  1994  most  Armenian  officers  still  were  being  trained 
in  Russia;  the  first  100  Armenian-trained  officers  were  to  be 
commissioned  in  the  spring  of  1994.  Plans  called  for  officer 
training  to  begin  in  1995  at  a  new  national  military  academy. 

Eighteen-year-old  men  constitute  the  primary  pool  of  con- 
scripts. New  trainees  generally  are  not  sent  into  combat  posi- 
tions. The  Armenian  public  was  hostile  to  conscription  in  the 
Soviet  period;  the  practice  of  assigning  Armenian  recruits  to  all 
parts  of  the  Soviet  Union  prompted  large  demonstrations  in 
Erevan.  That  attitude  continued  in  the  post-Soviet  period.  In 
the  first  two  years  of  the  new  force,  recruitment  fell  far  short  of 
quotas.  The  draft  of  the  fall  of  1992,  for  example,  produced 
only  71  percent  of  the  quota,  and  widespread  evasion  was 
reported. 

Conscripts  generally  lack  equipment  and  advanced  training, 
and  some  units  are  segregated  by  social  class.  Officer  elitism 
and  isolation  are  also  problems,  chiefly  because  the  first  lan- 
guage of  many  officers  is  Russian.  Desertion  rates  in  1992-93 
were  extremely  high.  In  early  1994,  the  defense  establishment 
considered  formalizing  the  status  of  the  large  number  of  volun- 
teers in  the  army  by  introducing  a  contract  service  system. 

In  1992  the  republic  established  the  Babajanian  Military 
Boarding  School,  which  admitted  qualified  boys  aged  fourteen 
to  sixteen  for  training,  leading  to  active  military  service.  By 
agreement  with  Russian  military  institutions,  graduates  could 
continue  training  in  Russia  at  the  expense  of  the  Armenian 
Ministry  of  Defense.  A  class  of  100  was  expected  to  graduate  in 


73 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

1994.  The  lack  of  military  training  schools  is  rated  as  a  serious 
problem.  Armenian  cadets  and  junior  officers  study  at  military 
schools  in  Russia  and  other  CIS  states,  and  senior  officers 
spend  two  to  three  years  at  academies  in  Russia  and  Belarus.  A 
military  academy  for  all  armed  services  was  in  the  planning 
stage  in  1994. 

The  Karabakh  Self-Defense  Army  consists  mostly  of  Arme- 
nians from  Karabakh  or  elsewhere  in  Azerbaijan,  plus  some  vol- 
unteers from  Armenia  and  mercenaries  who  formerly  were 
Soviet  officers.  The  Karabakh  forces  reportedly  are  well  armed 
with  Kalashnikov  rifles,  armor,  and  heavy  artillery,  a  high  per- 
centage of  which  was  captured  from  Azerbaijani  forces  or 
obtained  from  Soviet  occupation  troops.  Significant  arms  and 
materiel  support  also  came  from  Armenia,  often  at  the 
expense  of  the  regular  army.  By  1994  the  Karabakh  Self- 
Defense  Army  was  building  an  infrastructure  of  barracks,  train- 
ing centers,  and  repair  depots.  Defeats  that  Armenians 
inflicted  on  Azerbaijan  in  1993  were  attributed  by  experts 
largely  to  the  self-defense  forces,  although  regular  Armenian 
forces  also  were  involved. 

The  Armenian  air  defense  forces,  virtually  nonexistent  in 
1991,  were  equipped  and  organized  as  part  of  the  military 
reform  program  of  Ter-Grigoriants.  Air  defense  units  and  the 
air  force  each  had  about  2,000  troops  in  1994.  The  new  mili- 
tary aviation  program  of  the  air  force  has  been  bolstered  by  the 
recruitment  of  Soviet-trained  Armenian  pilots,  and  new  pilots 
receive  training  at  the  Aviation  Training  Center,  run  by  the 
Ministry  of  Defense.  Some  modern  training  aircraft  are  avail- 
able at  the  center.  Pilots  receive  special  housing  privileges, 
although  their  pay  is  extremely  low.  Some  Soviet-made  Mi-8, 
Mi-9,  and  Mi-24  helicopters  are  available  to  support  ground 
troops,  but  only  one  squadron  of  aircraft  was  rated  combat- 
ready  in  1994.  Most  of  Armenia's  fixed-wing  aircraft,  inherited 
from  the  Soviet  Union,  were  unavailable  because  of  poor  main- 
tenance. 

Reserves 

After  independence  the  Soviet-era  Volunteer  Society  for 
Assistance  to  the  Army,  Air  Force,  and  Navy  (see  Glossary),  part 
of  the  centralized  reserve  system  of  the  Soviet  army,  was 
renamed  the  Defense  Technical  Sports  Society.  The  new  system 
trains  personnel  for  specific  military  tasks  in  the  Armenian 
forces,  whereas  previous  training  was  a  general  preparation  for 


74 


Members  of  Armenian  Army  parading  in  Victory  Square,  Erevan, 

Independence  Day  1993 
Courtesy  Azarian  Churukian 

unknown  assignments  elsewhere  in  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1993 
the  society's  schools  gave  instruction  in  thirteen  military  occu- 
pational specialties, including  tank  driving  and  repair,  radio- 
telegraphy,  and  artillery  and  small  arms  repair. 

Like  those  of  the  regular  military,  the  facilities  of  the 
reserves  were  cut  back  sharply  at  independence.  At  least  nine 
reserve  training  facilities,  including  one  technical  school,  were 
reassigned  within  the  Ministry  of  Defense  or  to  another  minis- 
try. The  Defense  Technical  Sports  Society  supports  itself  by  sell- 
ing military  gear  and  sports  vehicles  produced  in  its  plants;  it 
has  established  advisory  relations  with  defense  technical  societ- 
ies in  other  CIS  countries. 

The  Russian  Role 

After  Armenian  independence,  Russia  retained  control  of 
the  Russian  7th  Army  in  Armenia,  which  numbered  about 
23,000  personnel  in  mid-1992.  At  that  time,  the  7th  Army 
included  three  motorized  rifle  divisions.  In  the  second  half  of 
1992,  substantial  parts  of  two  divisions — the  15th  Division  and 
the  164th  Division — were  transferred  to  Armenian  control. 
The  other  division  remained  intact  and  under  full  Russian 
command  at  Gyumri  in  early  1994.  Meanwhile,  Russia  com- 
pleted withdrawal  of  the  four  divisions  of  its  4th  Army  from 
Azerbaijan  in  May  1993.  Some  Armenian  warrant  officers  were 
assigned  to  the  division  at  Gyumri,  and  the  two  countries  dis- 
cussed assignment  of  Armenian  recruits  to  Russian  units. 

The  Russian  presence  continued  in  1994,  with  an  opera- 
tional command  in  Erevan  providing  engineer,  communica- 
tions, logistics,  aviation,  and  training  capabilities.  Under  the 


75 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

1992  Treaty  on  Collective  Security,  which  apportioned  Soviet 
weaponry  among  the  former  Soviet  republics,  Armenia  was 
allotted  180  T-72  tanks,  180  BMP-IK  armored  fighting  vehi- 
cles, sixty  BTR-60  and  BTR-70  armored  personnel  carriers, 
twenty-five  BRM-1K  armored  fighting  vehicles,  thirty  9P-138 
and  9P-148  guided  missiles,  and  130  artillery  pieces  and  mor- 
tars. An  unknown  number  of  weapons  systems  in  the  Osa, 
Strela,  Igla,  and  Shilka  classes  were  also  designated  for  transfer. 
Much  of  this  equipment  was  no  longer  serviceable  by  the  time 
it  was  turned  over,  however. 

Internal  Security 

In  the  early  1990s,  internal  security  was  endangered  by 
growing  radical  opposition  to  the  moderate  domestic  and  for- 
eign policies  of  the  Ter-Petrosian  government.  By  1993  a  wide- 
spread breakdown  of  law  and  order  in  the  republic  had  eroded 
the  authority  of  the  Armenian  state. 

Shortly  after  independence,  a  special  internal  security  force 
was  formed  under  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  whose  spe- 
cial status  in  the  government  alarmed  many  observers  in  the 
ensuing  years.  The  original  mission  of  the  internal  security 
force  was  to  prevent  guerrilla  attacks  on  military  installations  in 
the  first  months  of  independence.  Since  that  time,  this  militia 
also  has  acted  as  the  sole  general  (and  nominally  apolitical) 
police  force.  As  originally  formed,  the  internal  affairs  unit  had 
1,000  troops,  including  one  assault  battalion,  two  motorized 
patrol  battalions,  and  one  armored  patrol  battalion.  Three  spe- 
cialized companies,  including  a  canine  unit  for  drug  detection, 
also  were  formed.  Elements  of  the  former  KGB  have  remained 
active  under  Armenian  direction.  All  police  agencies  are  under 
the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs. 

Border  patrols  are  administered  by  the  Main  Administration 
for  the  Protection  of  State  Borders.  Some  of  the  patrols  on  the 
Iranian  and  Turkish  borders  are  manned  by  Russian  troops, 
whose  presence  is  partially  funded  by  Armenia.  The  rest  of  the 
border  patrols  are  made  up  of  Armenian  troops  serving  under 
contract. 

In  early  1994,  Armenia  completely  reorganized  the  State 
Administration  for  National  Security  (SANS),  the  umbrella 
agency  of  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  that  heads  all 
national  security  activities.  All  agency  activities  except  border 
patrols  were  suspended  for  three  months  while  staff  were 
reevaluated  and  an  announced  focus  on  intelligence  and  coun- 


76 


Armenia 


terintelligence  was  introduced.  The  controversial  measure  may 
have  been  instigated  by  the  assassination  of  Marius  Yuzbashian, 
a  former  chief  of  the  Armenian  branch  of  the  KGB;  SANS  had 
failed  to  investigate  the  assassination  fully  when  it  occurred,  in 
the  fall  of  1993. 

Experts  saw  a  serious  long-term  threat  to  internal  security  in 
the  independent  mercenary  Fidain  forces  that  had  been 
trained  and  expanded  by  Armenian  political  parties  to  fight  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  The  end  of  the  Karabakh  conflict  would 
free  these  combat-hardened  forces,  which  did  the  bulk  of  the 
fighting  in  Karabakh,  for  possible  guerrilla  activity  within 
Armenia  on  behalf  of  their  respective  opposition  parties. 

Crime 

Especially  in  the  chaotic  conditions  that  have  existed  during 
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  Armenia  has  suffered  steep 
increases  in  the  gang  activity  of  an  organized  mafia.  Overall 
crime  increased  11.5  percent  from  1990  to  1991;  then  it 
increased  24.8  percent  from  1991  to  1992.  "Major"  crimes 
(murder,  robbery,  armed  robbery,  rape,  and  aggravated 
assault)  increased  3  percent  from  1991  to  1992.  The  largest 
increases  in  that  category  were  in  murder,  robbery,  and  armed 
robbery.  White-collar  crime  (bribery  and  fraud)  increased 
about  2  percent  in  that  time,  crimes  by  juveniles  increased 
about  40  percent,  and  drug-related  crimes  increased  240  per- 
cent. According  to  one  report,  80  percent  of  crimes  committed 
in  Armenia  in  1992  were  drug  related. 

In  1992  and  1993,  a  police  campaign  temporarily  limited 
the  activity  of  a  few  large  gangs,  but  gang  leaders,  whose  identi- 
ties were  commonly  known  in  Armenian  society,  used  influ- 
ence in  parliament  to  stymie  the  efforts  of  the  Ministry  of 
Internal  Affairs.  Some  deputies  in  parliament  were  implicated 
directly  in  white-collar  crime,  and  some  even  had  been  con- 
victed prior  to  their  election.  From  1991  to  1993,  six  convicts 
were  sentenced  to  death,  but  by  early  1994  none  had  been  exe- 
cuted. 

Prisons 

Three  major  prisons  are  in  operation,  at  Sovetashen,  Artik, 
and  Kosh.  Local  jurisdictions  also  have  jails.  All  prisons  and 
jails  are  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Internal 
Affairs.  The  Soviet  prison  system  remains  intact  in  Armenia. 
That  system  includes  two  general  categories:  labor  colonies, 


77 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

and  prison  communities  similar  to  Western  prisons.  Prison  sys- 
tem reforms  call  for  establishment  of  general  and  high-security 
reform  schools  for  teenagers;  general  and  high-security  prisons 
for  women;  and  four  grades  of  prisons  for  men,  from  minimum 
to  maximum  security.  The  death  penalty  is  applicable  for  mili- 
tary crimes,  first-degree  murder,  rape  of  a  minor,  treason,  espi- 
onage, and  terrorism. 

In  1993  Armenia  remained  a  weak  state  whose  legal  system 
was  severely  challenged  by  the  activities  of  regional  and  family 
clans,  criminal  gangs  with  diverse  operations,  widespread  cor- 
ruption, and  occasional  assassinations  of  political  figures.  In 
the  absence  of  a  secure  rule  of  law,  the  stresses  of  war  and 
material  privation,  uncertainty  about  the  future,  and  popular 
suspicion  about  the  legitimacy  of  the  ruling  elites  threatened 
the  stability  of  the  new  republic. 

*  *  * 

For  general  historical  and  cultural  narratives  on  the  Arme- 
nian nation  and  people,  two  books  by  David  Marshall  Lang  are 
of  special  value:  The  Armenians:  A  People  in  Exile  and  Armenia: 
Cradle  of  Civilization.  Ronald  G.  Suny's  Armenia  in  the  Twentieth 
Century  covers  that  period,  with  an  emphasis  on  social  change. 
The  Economic  Profile  of  Armenia  volume  of  the  United  States 
Department  of  Commerce's  Business  Information  Service  for 
the  Newly  Independent  States  and  Armenia,  an  economic 
review  by  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  provide  a  picture 
of  Armenia's  economy  after  1991;  the  latter  source  also 
includes  tables  on  a  variety  of  economic  performance  indica- 
tors in  the  Soviet  and  post-Soviet  periods. 

Current  information  on  Nagorno-Karabakh  and  conditions 
in  Armenia  is  provided  in  the  Monthly  Digest  of  News  from  Arme- 
nia, published  by  the  Armenian  Assembly  of  America,  and  the 
Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service's  Daily  Report:  Central 
Eurasia.  These  two  publications  emphasize  political,  economic, 
and  national  security  topics.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


78 


Sixth-century  water  pitcher 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Azerbaijan. 
Short  Form:  Azerbaijan. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Azerbaijani  (s). 
Capital:  Baku. 

Date  of  Independence:  October  18,  1991. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  86,600  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  About  half  mountainous;  surrounded  by 
mountain  ranges,  most  notably  Greater  Caucasus  range  to 
north.  Flatlands  in  center  and  along  Caspian  Sea  coast. 

Climate:  Dry,  semiarid  steppe  in  center  and  east,  subtropical  in 
southeast,  cold  at  high  mountain  elevations  to  north, 
temperate  on  Caspian  Sea  coast. 

Society 

Population:  Mid-1994  estimate  7,684,456;  1994  annual  growth 
rate  1.4  percent.  Density  in  1994  approximately  eighty-eight 
persons  per  square  kilometer. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Azerbaijanis  82.7  percent,  Russians  5.6  percent, 
Armenians  5.6  percent,  and  Lezgians  (Dagestanis)  3.2  percent, 
per  1989  census  (Armenians  and  Russians  much  less  in  early 
1990s). 


NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


81 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Languages:  Azerbaijani  82  percent,  Russian  7  percent,  and 
Armenian  5  percent,  per  1989  census  (Armenian  and  Russian 
much  less  in  early  1990s). 

Religion:  In  1989*  Muslim  87  percent  (about  70  percent  of 
which  Shia),  Russian  Orthodox  5.6  percent,  and  Armenian 
Apostolic  5.6  percent  (much  less  in  early  1990s).  Many 
mosques  reopened  or  established  after  religious  restrictions  of 
Soviet  period. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Compulsory  education  through  eighth 
grade.  In  1970  literacy  estimated  at  100  percent  (ages  nine  to 
forty-nine).  After  1991  major  reform  program  was  begun  to 
modify  Soviet  system,  eliminate  ideology,  increase  use  of 
Azerbaijani  language,  and  reintroduce  traditional  religious 
instruction. 

Health:  Nominally  universal  health  care  available  but  facilities 
limited,  especially  after  independence.  Sanitation,  pharmacies, 
health  care  delivery,  and  research  and  development  at 
relatively  low  level;  medicines  and  equipment  in  short  supply. 

Economy 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  In  1992  estimated  at  US$18.6 
billion,  or  US$2,480  per  capita.  Average  growth  rate  1.9 
percent  in  1980-91.  Production  dropped  throughout  early 
1990s  because  of  adjustments  to  post-Soviet  system  and  because 
of  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict. 

Agriculture:  Main  crops  grapes,  cotton,  tobacco,  citrus  fruits, 
and  vegetables.  Livestock,  dairy  products,  and  wine  also 
produced.  Slow  privatization  hinders  productivity  increase,  and 
production  of  most  crops  decreased  in  early  1990s.  Irrigation 
and  other  equipment  outmoded,  although  irrigation  critical 
for  many  crops. 

Industry  and  Mining:  Principal  industries  oil  extraction,  oil 
equipment  manufacture,  petrochemicals,  and  construction. 
Besides  oil,  large  natural  gas  deposits  and  some  iron  ore, 
bauxite,  cobalt,  and  molybdenum.  Oil  production  in  decline 
since  1980s. 

Energy:  Abundant  hydroelectric  potential,  but  most  of  electric 
power  generated  by  oil-fired  plants.  Domestic  natural  gas 
production  meets  35  percent  of  domestic  needs.  Foreign 


82 


Azerbaijan 


assistance  sought  to  rejuvenate  oil  extraction  industry. 

Exports:  In  1992  estimated  at  US$926  million  to 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS)  nations  and 
US$821  million  outside  CIS,  of  which  61  percent  refined  oil 
and  gas  products,  25  percent  machinery  and  metal  products, 
and  7  percent  light  industrial  products  (textiles  and  food 
products).  Largest  export  markets  Russia,  Ukraine,  Iran, 
Turkey,  and  Hungary. 

Imports:  In  1992  estimated  at  US$300  million  from  outside 
CIS,  of  which  36  percent  machine  parts,  21  percent  processed 
foods,  and  12  percent  nonfood  light  industrial  products. 
Largest  import  sources  Russia,  Turkey,  and  Ukraine. 

Balance  of  Payments:  In  1992  trade  surplus  approximately 
US$24  million. 

Exchange  Rate:  Manat,  established  in  mid-1992  at  ten  rubles  to 
the  manat,  was  used  together  with  ruble  until  end  of  1993, 
after  which  manat  became  sole  currency.  October  1993 
exchange  rate  US$1=120  manats. 

Inflation:  Estimated  at  1,200  percent  for  1993. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  State  budget  consists  of  central  government 
budget  and  budgets  of  sixty-eight  local  and  regional 
government  budgets.  Tax  system  revised  in  1992  to  improve 
state  income,  and  budgetary  expenditures  tightly  controlled  to 
minimize  budget  deficits. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Highways:  In  1990  about  36,700  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
31,800  kilometers  hard-surface.  Generally  poorly  maintained. 

Railroads:  2,090  kilometers  of  rail  line  in  1990.  Lines  connect 
Baku  with  Tbilisi,  Makhachkala  (in  Dagestan),  and  Erevan;  rail 
line  in  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic  goes  to  Tabriz  (in 
Iran).  Operating  costs  high  because  of  poor  condition  of 
equipment.  Service  disrupted  by  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict  in 
early  1990s. 

Civil  Aviation:  Total  of  thirty-three  usable  airports,  twenty-six 
with  permanent-surface  runways.  Longest  runway  at  Baku 
International  Airport.  National  airline,  Azerbaijan  Airlines, 


83 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
founded  in  1992. 

Inland  Waterways:  Most  rivers  not  navigable. 

Ports:  Baku  center  of  Caspian  shipping  lines  to  Iran  and 
Turkmenistan. 

Pipelines:  In  1994  crude  oil  pipeline  1,130  kilometers, 
petroleum  products  pipeline  630  kilometers,  and  natural  gas 
pipeline  1,240  kilometers. 

Telecommunications:  In  1991  total  telephone  lines  644,000 
(nine  per  100  persons).  Connections  to  CIS  countries  by  cable 
and  microwave.  Connections  to  other  countries  through 
Moscow.  International  Telecommunications  Satellite 
Organization  (Intelsat)  station  in  Baku  gives  access  to  200 
countries  through  Turkey.  Turkish  and  Iranian  television 
stations  received  through  satellite;  domestic  and  Russian 
broadcasts  received  locally. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  One  autonomous  republic,  Nakhichevan 
Autonomous  Republic;  one  autonomous  region,  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  Autonomous  Region  (under  dispute  with  Armenia) . 
Fifty-six  districts  and  ten  cities  under  direct  central  control. 
Executive  branch  includes  president,  elected  by  direct  popular 
vote,  and  Council  of  Ministers,  appointed  by  president  with 
legislative  approval;  350-member  legislature,  Azerbaijani 
Supreme  Soviet,  dissolved  in  May  1992,  superseded  by  fifty- 
member  Melli-Majlis  (National  Council).  Regimes  of  early 
1990s  unstable.  Adoption  of  new  constitution  delayed  by 
political  turmoil.  Judicial  branch  remains  substantially 
unchanged  from  Soviet  system,  which  offered  limited  rights  to 
those  accused. 

Politics:  Azerbaijani  Communist  Party,  previously  only  legal 
party,  dissolved  formally  September  1991  but  remained 
influential  and  was  reconstituted  December  1993.  Major 
parties  New  Azerbaijan  Party,  led  by  President  Heydar  Aliyev; 
Azerbaijani  Popular  Front,  major  opposition  party  1990-92; 
and  National  Independence  Party,  major  opposition  party 
1992-94.  Several  smaller  parties  influential  in  coalition  politics 
of  Melli-Majlis. 

Foreign  Relations:  Major  goal  countering  worldwide  Armenian 


84 


Azerbaijan 


information  campaign  on  Nagorno-Karabakh.  Policy  toward 
Turkey  and  Russia  varies  with  perception  of  support  and 
mediation  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict;  Aliyev  government 
closer  to  Russia.  Blockade  of  Armenia  brought  United  States 
restriction  of  relations  and  aid  in  1992.  Recognized  by  120 
countries  by  1993. 

International  Agreements  and  Membership:  Member  of 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  United  Nations, 
Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development,  and 
International  Monetary  Fund. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Military  affairs  overseen  by  Defense  Council 
reporting  to  president,  not  by  Ministry  of  Defense.  Armed 
forces  consist  of  army,  air  force,  air  defense  forces,  navy,  and 
National  Guard.  In  1994  total  of  about  56,000  troops  (about 
half  of  which  conscripts),  49,000  of  which  allocated  to  ground 
forces,  3,000  to  navy,  and  2,000  each  to  air  force  and  air 
defense  forces.  Paramilitary  groups  extensively  used  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict  in  early  1990s,  and  volunteers 
widely  sought  abroad.  All  Russian  forces  withdrawn  by  1993. 
Forced  recruitment  reported  in  1993;  discipline  poor. 

Military  Budget:  Estimated  expenditure  in  1992  about  10.5 
percent  (US$125  million)  of  state  budget. 

Internal  Security:  Border  Guards,  established  in  1992,  limited; 
some  Russian  troops  included.  In  1993  major  reform  of 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  which  controls  20,000  militia 
troops  used  as  regular  police.  Customs  service  unable  to 
prevent  smuggling,  especially  of  narcotics. 


85 


 International  boundary 

®     National  capital 

®     Autonomous  republic  capital  j 

•      Populated  place 

NOTE  -  Status  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 
under  negotiation  in  1994 

0     25    50    75  Kilometers 


RUSSIA 


GEORGIA 


ARMENIA 


[turkeyV 


Figure  8.  Azerbaijan,  1994 


86 


UNDER  THE  DOMINATION  of  the  Soviet  Union  for  most  of 
the  twentieth  century,  Azerbaijan  began  a  period  of  tentative 
autonomy  when  the  Soviet  state  collapsed  at  the  end  of  1991.  A 
culturally  and  linguistically  Turkic  people,  the  Azerbaijanis 
have  retained  a  rich  cultural  heritage  despite  long  periods  of 
Persian  and  Russian  domination.  In  the  1990s,  the  newly  inde- 
pendent nation  still  faced  strong  and  contrary  religious  and 
political  influences  from  neighbors  such  as  Iran  to  the  south, 
Turkey  to  the  west,  and  Russia  to  the  north  (see  fig.  8) .  Despite 
the  country's  rich  oil  reserves,  Azerbaijan's  natural  and  eco- 
nomic resources  and  social  welfare  system  have  been  rated 
below  those  of  most  of  the  other  former  Soviet  republics.  Fur- 
thermore, in  the  early  1990s  a  long  military  and  diplomatic 
struggle  with  neighboring  Armenia  was  sapping  resources  and 
distracting  the  country  from  the  task  of  devising  post-Soviet 
internal  systems  and  establishing  international  relations. 

Historical  Background 

The  territory  of  modern  Azerbaijan  has  been  subject  to  myr- 
iad invasions,  migrations,  and  cultural  and  political  influences. 
During  most  of  its  history,  Azerbaijan  was  under  Persian  influ- 
ence, but  as  the  Persian  Empire  declined,  Russia  began  a  200- 
year  dominance,  some  aspects  of  which  have  persisted  into  the 
1990s. 

Early  History 

As  a  crossroads  of  tribal  migration  and  military  campaigns, 
Azerbaijan  underwent  a  series  of  invasions  and  was  part  of  sev- 
eral larger  jurisdictions  before  the  beginning  of  the  Christian 
era. 

Persian  and  Greek  Influences 

In  the  ninth  century  B.C.,  the  seminomadic  Scythians  set- 
tled in  areas  of  what  is  now  Azerbaijan.  A  century  later,  the 
Medes,  who  were  related  ethnically  to  the  Persians,  established 
an  empire  that  included  southernmost  Azerbaijan.  In  the  sixth 
century  B.C.,  the  Archaemenid  Persians,  under  Cyrus  the 
Great,  took  over  the  western  part  of  Azerbaijan  when  they  sub- 
dued the  Assyrian  Empire  to  the  west.  In  330  B.C.,  Alexander 


87 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

the  Great  absorbed  the  entire  Archaemenid  Empire  into  his 
holdings,  leaving  Persian  satraps  to  govern  as  he  advanced  east- 
ward. According  to  one  account,  Atropates,  a  Persian  general 
in  Alexander's  command,  whose  name  means  "protected  by 
fire,"  lent  his  name  to  the  region  when  Alexander  made  him  its 
governor.  Another  legend  explains  that  Azerbaijan's  name 
derives  from  the  Persian  words  meaning  "the  land  of  fire,"  a 
reference  either  to  the  natural  burning  of  surface  oil  deposits 
or  to  the  oil-fueled  fires  in  temples  of  the  once-dominant  Zoro- 
astrian  religion  (see  Religion,  this  ch.). 

The  Introduction  of  Islam  and  the  Turkish  Language 

Between  the  first  and  third  centuries  A.D.,  the  Romans  con- 
quered the  Scythians  and  Seleucids,  who  were  among  the  suc- 
cessor groups  to  the  fragmented  empire  of  Alexander.  The 
Romans  annexed  the  region  of  present-day  Azerbaijan  and 
called  the  area  Albania.  As  Roman  control  weakened,  the  Sas- 
sanid  Dynasty  reestablished  Persian  control.  Between  the  sev- 
enth and  eleventh  centuries,  Arabs  controlled  Azerbaijan, 
bringing  with  them  the  precepts  of  Islam.  In  the  mid-eleventh 
century,  Turkic-speaking  groups,  including  the  Oghuz  tribes 
and  their  Seljuk  Turkish  dynasty,  ended  Arab  control  by  invad- 
ing Azerbaijan  from  Central  Asia  and  asserting  political  domi- 
nance. The  Seljuks  brought  with  them  the  Turkish  language 
and  Turkish  customs.  By  the  thirteenth  century,  the  basic  char- 
acteristics of  the  Azerbaijani  nation  had  been  established.  Sev- 
eral masterpieces  of  Azerbaijani  architecture  and  literature 
were  created  during  the  cultural  golden  age  that  spanned  the 
eleventh  through  the  thirteenth  centuries.  Among  the  most 
notable  cultural  monuments  of  this  period  are  the  writings  of 
Nezami  Ganjavi  and  the  mausoleum  of  Momine-Khatun  in 
Nakhichevan  (see  The  Arts,  this  ch.). 

Under  the  leadership  of  Hulegu  Khan,  Mongols  invaded 
Azerbaijan  in  the  early  thirteenth  century;  Hulegu  ruled  Azer- 
baijan and  Persia  from  his  capital  in  the  Persian  city  of  Tabriz. 
At  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century,  another  Mongol,  Timur 
(also  known  as  Tamerlane),  invaded  Azerbaijan,  at  about  the 
time  that  Azerbaijani  rule  was  reviving  under  the  Shirvan 
Dynasty.  Shirvan  shah  Ibrahim  I  ibn  Sultan  Muhammad  briefly 
accepted  Timur  as  his  overlord.  (In  earlier  times,  the  Shirvan 
shahs  had  accepted  the  suzerainty  of  Seljuk  overlords.) 
Another  extant  architectural  treasure,  the  Shirvan  shahs'  pal- 
ace in  Baku,  dates  from  this  period.  In  the  sixteenth  century, 


88 


Icheri-Shekher 
Fortress,  Baku 
Courtesy  Tatiana 
Zagorskaya 


the  Azerbaijani  Safavid  Dynasty  took  power  in  Persia.  This 
dynasty  fought  off  efforts  by  the  Ottoman  Turks  during  the 
eighteenth  century  to  establish  control  over  Azerbaijan;  the 
Safavids  could  not,  however,  halt  Russian  advances  into  the 
region. 

Within  the  Russian  Empire 

Beginning  in  the  early  eighteenth  century,  Russia  slowly 
asserted  political  domination  over  the  northern  part  of  Azer- 
baijan, while  Persia  retained  control  of  southern  Azerbaijan.  In 
the  nineteenth  century,  the  division  between  Russian  and  Per- 
sian Azerbaijan  was  largely  determined  by  two  treaties  con- 
cluded after  wars  between  the  two  countries.  The  Treaty  of 
Gulistan  (1813)  established  the  Russo-Persian  border  roughly 
along  the  Aras  River,  and  the  Treaty  of  Turkmanchay  (1828) 
awarded  Russia  the  Nakhichevan  khanates  (along  the  present- 
day  border  between  Armenia  and  Turkey)  in  the  region  of  the 
Talish  Mountains.  The  land  that  is  now  Azerbaijan  was  split 
among  three  Russian  administrative  areas — Baku  and  Elizavet- 
pol  provinces  and  part  of  Yerevan  Province,  which  also 
extended  into  present-day  Armenia. 

Russian  Influences  in  the  Nineteenth  Century 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  Russian  influence  over  daily  life 
in  Azerbaijan  was  less  pervasive  than  that  of  indigenous  reli- 


89 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

gious  and  political  elites  and  the  cultural  and  intellectual  influ- 
ences of  Persia  and  Turkey.  During  most  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  the  Russian  Empire  extracted  commodities  from  Azer- 
baijan and  invested  little  in  the  economy.  However,  the  exploi- 
tation of  oil  in  Azerbaijan  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century 
brought  an  influx  of  Russians  into  Baku,  increasing  Russian 
influence  and  expanding  the  local  economy. 

Although  ethnic  Russians  came  to  dominate  the  oil  business 
and  government  administration  in  the  late  1800s,  many  Azer- 
baijanis  became  prominent  in  particular  sectors  of  oil  produc- 
tion, such  as  oil  transport  on  the  Caspian  Sea.  Armenians  also 
became  important  as  merchants  and  local  officials  of  the  Rus- 
sian monarchy.  The  population  of  Baku  increased  from  about 
13,000  in  the  1860s  to  112,000  in  1897  and  215,000  in  1913, 
making  Baku  the  largest  city  in  the  Caucasus  region.  At  this 
point,  more  than  one-third  of  Baku's  population  consisted  of 
ethnic  Russians.  In  1905  social  tensions  erupted  in  riots  and 
other  forms  of  death  and  destruction  as  Azerbaijanis  and 
Armenians  struggled  for  local  control  and  Azerbaijanis  resisted 
Russian  sovereignty. 

The  Spirit  of  Revolution 

The  growth  of  industry  and  political  influences  from  out- 
side prompted  the  formation  of  radical  and  reformist  political 
organizations  at  the  turn  of  the  century.  A  leftist  party  calling 
itself  Himmat,  composed  mainly  of  Azerbaijani  intellectuals, 
was  formed  in  1903-4  to  champion  Azerbaijani  culture  and 
language  against  Russian  and  other  foreign  influences.  A  small 
Social  Democratic  Party  (which  later  split  into  Bolshevik  and 
Menshevik  factions)  also  existed,  but  that  party  was  largely 
dominated  by  Russians  and  Armenians.  Some  members  of 
Himmat  broke  away  and  formed  the  Musavat  (Equality  party) 
in  1912.  This  organization  aimed  at  establishing  an  indepen- 
dent Azerbaijani  state,  and  its  progressive  and  nationalist  slo- 
gans gained  wide  appeal.  Himmat's  Marxist  coloration  involved 
it  in  wider  ideological  squabbles  in  the  period  leading  up  to  the 
1917  Bolshevik  Revolution  in  Russia.  After  several  further 
splits,  the  remainder  of  Himmat  was  absorbed  into  the  Russian 
Communist  Party  (Bolshevik)  shortly  before  Azerbaijan  was 
occupied  by  the  Red  Army  in  1920. 

World  War  I  and  Independence 

After  the  Bolshevik  Revolution,  a  mainly  Russian  and  Arme- 
nian grouping  of  Baku  Bolsheviks  declared  a  Marxist  republic 


90 


Azerbaijan 


in  Azerbaijan.  Muslim  nationalists  separately  declared  the 
establishment  of  the  Azerbaijan  People's  Democratic  Republic 
in  May  1918  and  formed  the  "Army  of  Islam,"  with  substantial 
help  from  the  Ottoman  Turkish  army,  to  defeat  the  Bolsheviks 
in  Baku.  The  Army  of  Islam  marched  into  the  capital  in  Sep- 
tember 1918,  meeting  little  resistance  from  the  Bolshevik 
forces.  After  some  violence  against  Armenians  still  residing  in 
the  city,  the  new  Azerbaijani  government,  dominated  by  the 
Musavat,  moved  into  its  capital.  Azerbaijan  was  occupied  by 
Ottoman  Turkish  troops  until  the  end  of  World  War  I  in 
November  1918.  British  forces  then  replaced  the  defeated 
Turks  and  remained  in  Azerbaijan  for  most  of  that  country's 
brief  period  of  independence. 

Facing  imminent  subjugation  by  the  Red  Army,  Azerbaijan 
attempted  to  negotiate  a  union  with  Persia,  but  this  effort  was 
rendered  moot  when  the  Red  Army  invaded  Azerbaijan  in 
April  1920.  Russian  leader  Vladimir  I.  Lenin  justified  the  inva- 
sion because  of  the  importance  of  the  Baku  region's  oil  to  the 
Bolsheviks,  who  were  still  embroiled  in  a  civil  war.  The  Red 
Army  met  little  resistance  from  Azerbaijani  forces  because  the 
Azerbaijanis  were  heavily  involved  in  suppressing  separatism 
among  the  Armenians  who  formed  a  majority  in  the  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  area  of  south-central  Azerbaijan.  In  September  1920, 
Azerbaijan  signed  a  treaty  with  Russia  unifying  its  military 
forces,  economy,  and  foreign  trade  with  those  of  Russia, 
although  the  fiction  of  Azerbaijani  political  independence  was 
maintained. 

Within  the  Soviet  Union 

The  invasion  of  1920  began  a  seventy-one-year  period  under 
total  political  and  economic  control  of  the  state  that  became 
the  Soviet  Union  in  1922.  The  borders  and  formal  status  of 
Azerbaijan  underwent  a  period  of  change  and  uncertainty  in 
the  1920s  and  1930s,  and  then  they  remained  stable  through 
the  end  of  the  Soviet  period  in  1991. 

Determination  of  Borders  and  Status 

In  late  1921,  the  Russian  leadership  dictated  the  creation  of 
a  Transcaucasian  federated  republic,  composed  of  Armenia, 
Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia,  which  in  1922  became  part  of  the 
newly  proclaimed  Soviet  Union  as  the  Transcaucasian  Soviet 
Federated  Socialist  Republic  (TSFSR) .  In  this  large  new  repub- 
lic, the  three  subunits  ceded  their  nominal  powers  over  foreign 


91 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

policy,  finances,  trade,  transportation,  and  other  areas  to  the 
unwieldy  and  artificial  authority  of  the  TSFSR.  In  1936  the  new 
"Stalin  Constitution"  abolished  the  TSFSR,  and  the  three  con- 
stituent parts  were  proclaimed  separate  Soviet  republics. 

In  mid-1920  the  Red  Army  occupied  Nakhichevan,  an  Azer- 
baijani enclave  between  Armenia  and  northwestern  Iran.  The 
Red  Army  declared  Nakhichevan  a  Soviet  socialist  republic 
with  close  ties  to  Azerbaijan.  In  early  1921,  a  referendum  con- 
firmed that  most  of  the  population  of  the  enclave  wanted  to  be 
included  in  Azerbaijan.  Turkey  also  supported  this  solution. 
Nakhichevan's  close  ties  to  Azerbaijan  were  confirmed  by  the 
Russo-Turkish  Treaty  of  Moscow  and  the  Treaty  of  Kars  among 
the  three  Transcaucasian  states  and  Turkey,  both  signed  in 
1921. 

Lenin  and  his  successor,  Joseph  V.  Stalin,  assigned  pacifica- 
tion of  Transcaucasia  and  delineation  of  borders  in  the  region 
to  the  Caucasian  Bureau  of  the  Russian  Communist  Party  (Bol- 
shevik). In  1924,  despite  opposition  from  many  Azerbaijani 
officials,  the  bureau  formally  designated  Nakhichevan  an 
autonomous  republic  of  Azerbaijan  with  wide  local  powers,  a 
status  it  retains  today. 

The  existence  of  an  Azerbaijani  majority  population  in 
northern  Iran  became  a  pretext  for  Soviet  expansion.  In  1938 
Soviet  authorities  expelled  Azerbaijanis  holding  Iranian  pass- 
ports from  the  republic.  During  World  War  II,  Soviet  forces 
occupied  the  northern  part  of  Iran.  The  occupiers  stirred  an 
irredentist  movement  fronted  by  the  Democratic  Party  of  Azer- 
baijan, which  proclaimed  the  communist  Autonomous  Govern- 
ment of  Azerbaijan  at  Tabriz  at  the  end  of  1945.  The  Western 
powers  forced  the  Soviet  Union  to  withdraw  from  Iran  in  1946. 
Upon  the  subsequent  collapse  of  the  autonomous  government, 
the  Iranian  government  began  harsh  suppression  of  the  Azer- 
baijani culture.  From  that  time  until  the  late  1980s,  contacts 
between  Azerbaijanis  north  and  south  of  the  Iranian-Soviet 
border  were  severely  limited. 

Stalin  and  Post-Stalin  Politics 

During  Stalin's  dictatorship  in  the  Soviet  Union  (1926-53), 
Azerbaijan  suffered,  as  did  other  Soviet  republics,  from  forced 
collectivization  and  far-reaching  purges.  Yet  during  the  same 
period,  Azerbaijan  also  achieved  significant  gains  in  industrial- 
ization and  literacy  levels  that  were  impressive  in  comparison 


92 


with  those  of  other  Muslim  states  of  the  Middle  East  at  that 
time. 

After  Stalin,  Moscow's  intrusions  were  less  sweeping  but 
nonetheless  authoritarian.  In  1959  Nikita  S.  Khrushchev,  first 
secretary  of  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union  (CPSU), 
moved  to  purge  leaders  of  the  Azerbaijani  Communist  Party 
(ACP)  because  of  corruption  and  nationalist  tendencies. 
Leonid  I.  Brezhnev,  Khrushchev's  successor,  also  removed  ACP 
leaders  for  nationalist  leanings,  naming  Heydar  Aliyev  in  1969 
as  the  new  ACP  leader.  In  turn,  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  removed 
Aliyev  in  1987,  ostensibly  for  health  reasons,  although  later 
Aliyev  was  accused  of  corruption. 

After  Communist  Rule 

Azerbaijan  was  strongly  affected  by  the  autonomy  that 
spread  to  most  parts  of  the  Soviet  Union  under  Gorbachev's 
liberalized  regime  in  the  late  1980s.  After  independence  was 
achieved  in  1991,  conflict  with  Armenia  became  chronic,  and 
political  stability  eluded  Azerbaijan  in  the  early  years  of  the 
1990s. 

Demands  for  Sovereignty  and  the  Soviet  Reaction 

In  the  fall  of  1989,  the  nationalist  opposition  Azerbaijani 
Popular  Front  (APF)  led  a  wave  of  protest  strikes  expressing 


93 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

growing  political  opposition  to  ACP  rule  (see  Government  and 
Politics,  this  ch.).  Under  this  pressure,  the  ACP  authorities 
bowed  to  opposition  demands  to  legalize  the  APF  and  proclaim 
Azerbaijani  sovereignty.  In  September  1989,  the  Azerbaijani 
Supreme  Court  passed  a  resolution  of  sovereignty,  among  the 
first  such  resolutions  in  the  Soviet  republics.  The  resolution 
proclaimed  Azerbaijan's  sovereignty  over  its  land,  water,  and 
natural  resources  and  its  right  to  secede  from  the  Soviet  Union 
following  a  popular  referendum.  The  Presidium  of  the 
Supreme  Soviet,  the  legislative  body  of  the  Soviet  Union, 
declared  this  resolution  invalid  in  November  1989.  Another 
manifestation  of  nationalist  ferment  occurred  at  the  end  of 
1989,  when  Azerbaijanis  rioted  along  the  Iranian  border, 
destroying  border  checkpoints  and  crossing  into  Iranian  prov- 
inces that  had  Azerbaijani  majorities.  Azerbaijani  intellectuals 
also  appealed  to  the  CPSU  Politburo  for  relaxation  of  border 
controls  between  Soviet  and  Iranian  Azerbaijan,  comparing  the 
"tragic"  separation  of  the  Azerbaijani  nation  to  the  divisions  of 
Korea  or  Vietnam. 

Meanwhile,  Azerbaijanis  unleashed  a  wave  of  violence 
against  Armenian  residents  of  Baku  and  other  population  cen- 
ters, causing  turmoil  that  seemed  to  jeopardize  ACP  rule.  In 
response,  in  January  1990  Moscow  deployed  forces  of  its  Minis- 
try of  Internal  Affairs  (Ministerstvo  vnutrennikh  del — MVD), 
Committee  for  State  Security  (Komitet  gosudarstvennoi  bezo- 
pasnosti — KGB),  and  the  military  in  a  brutal  suppression  of 
these  riots.  Moscow  also  began  a  crackdown  on  the  APF  and 
other  opposition  forces  in  Baku  and  other  cities,  and  Soviet 
forces  cooperated  with  Iranian  authorities  to  secure  the  Azer- 
baijani-Iranian border.  These  actions  further  alienated  the 
population  from  Moscow's  rule.  Ironically,  the  Soviet  crack- 
down targeted  the  large  and  increasingly  vocal  Azerbaijani 
working  class.  In  this  process,  martial  law  was  declared,  and  the 
ACP  leader  was  replaced  by  Ayaz  Mutalibov,  a  former  chairman 
of  the  Azerbaijani  Council  of  Ministers.  In  May  1990,  while 
martial  law  remained  in  effect,  Mutalibov  was  elected  president 
by  the  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet;  elections  to  the  Supreme 
Soviet  were  held  four  months  later.  The  APF,  although 
declared  illegal,  retained  immense  popular  appeal  and  visibil- 
ity. 

The  Issue  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 

The  Soviet  Union  created  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  Autono- 
mous Region  within  Azerbaijan  in  1924.  At  that  time,  more 


94 


Memorial  to  Azerbaijani  victims  of  1990  Russian  invasion,  Baku 
Courtesy  David  Dallas,  United  States  Information  Agency 
Soviet  troops  sent  to  quell  Azerbaijani  nationalist  unrest,  1989-90 

Courtesy  Jay  Kempen 


95 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

than  94  percent  of  the  region's  population  was  Armenian  (see 
fig.  3).  (The  term  Nagorno-Karabakh  originates  from  the  Rus- 
sian for  "mountainous  Karabakh.")  As  the  Azerbaijani  popula- 
tion grew,  the  Karabakh  Armenians  chafed  under 
discriminatory  rule,  and  by  1960  hostilities  had  begun  between 
the  two  populations  of  the  region. 

On  February  20,  1988,  Armenian  deputies  to  the  National 
Council  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  voted  to  unify  that  region  with 
Armenia  (see  Population  and  Ethnic  Composition,  this  ch.; 
Nagorno-Karabakh  and  Independence,  ch.  1).  Although  Arme- 
nia did  not  formally  respond,  this  act  triggered  an  Azerbaijani 
massacre  of  more  than  100  Armenians  in  the  city  of  Sumgait, 
just  north  of  Baku.  A  similar  attack  on  Azerbaijanis  occurred  in 
the  Armenian  town  of  Spitak.  Large  numbers  of  refugees  left 
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  as  pogroms  began  against  the  minor- 
ity populations  of  the  respective  countries.  In  the  fall  of  1989, 
intensified  interethnic  conflict  in  and  around  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh led  Moscow  to  grant  Azerbaijani  authorities  greater  lee- 
way in  controlling  that  region.  The  Soviet  policy  backfired, 
however,  when  a  joint  session  of  the  Armenian  Supreme  Soviet 
and  the  National  Council  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  proclaimed 
the  unification  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  with  Armenia.  In  mid- 
January  1990,  Azerbaijani  protesters  in  Baku  went  on  a  ram- 
page against  the  remaining  Armenians  and  the  ACP.  Moscow 
intervened,  sending  police  troops  of  the  MVD,  who  violently 
suppressed  the  APF  and  installed  Mutalibov  as  president.  The 
troops  reportedly  killed  122  Azerbaijanis  in  quelling  the  upris- 
ing, and  Gorbachev  denounced  the  APF  for  striving  to  estab- 
lish an  Islamic  republic.  These  events  further  alienated  the 
Azerbaijani  population  from  Moscow  and  from  ACP  rule.  In  a 
December  1991  referendum  boycotted  by  local  Azerbaijanis, 
Armenians  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  approved  the  creation  of  an 
independent  state.  A  Supreme  Soviet  was  elected,  and 
Nagorno-Karabakh  appealed  for  world  recognition. 

Independence 

Mutalibov  initially  supported  the  August  1991  coup 
attempted  in  Moscow  against  the  Gorbachev  regime,  drawing 
vehement  objections  from  APF  leaders  and  other  political 
opponents.  Once  the  coup  failed,  Mutalibov  moved  quickly  to 
repair  local  damage  and  to  insulate  his  rule  from  Moscow's  ret- 
ribution by  announcing  his  resignation  as  first  secretary  of  the 
ACP.  These  moves  by  Mutalibov  and  his  supporters  were  in  line 


96 


Azerbaijan 


with  the  pro-independence  demands  of  the  APF,  even  though 
the  two  groups  remained  political  adversaries.  In  September 
1991,  Mutalibov  was  elected  president  without  electoral  opposi- 
tion but  under  charges  from  the  APF  that  the  election  process 
was  corrupt. 

Azerbaijan  began  the  process  of  achieving  formal  indepen- 
dence October  18,  when  the  Supreme  Soviet  passed  a  law  on 
state  independence,  ratifying  that  body's  August  declaration  of 
independence.  Then  in  December,  over  99  percent  of  voters 
cast  ballots  in  favor  of  independence  in  a  referendum  on  that 
issue.  The  constitution  was  duly  amended  to  reflect  the  coun- 
try's new  status.  Immediately  after  the  law  was  passed,  the 
Supreme  Soviet  appealed  to  the  world's  nations  and  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  for  recognition  of  Azerbaijan.  In  December 
Mutalibov  signed  accords  on  Azerbaijan's  membership  in  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS — see  Glossary),  a 
move  criticized  by  many  Azerbaijani  nationalists  who  opposed 
all  links  to  Russia  and  Armenia.  A  year  later,  the  Azerbaijani 
legislature  repudiated  the  signature,  rejecting  membership  in 
the  CIS.  Azerbaijan  maintained  observer  status  at  CIS  meet- 
ings, however,  and  it  resumed  full  membership  in  late  1993. 

Political  Instability 

The  intractable  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  contributed 
to  the  fall  of  several  governments  in  newly  independent  Azer- 
baijan. After  a  February  1992  armed  attack  by  Armenians  on 
Azerbaijani  residents  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  caused  many  civil- 
ian casualties,  Mutalibov  was  forced  by  opposition  parties  to 
resign  as  president.  The  president  of  Azerbaijan's  Supreme 
Soviet,  Yakub  Mamedov,  became  acting  president.  Mamedov 
held  this  position  until  May  1992,  when  he  in  turn  was  forced 
from  power  in  the  face  of  continuing  military  defeats  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  Mutalibov  loyalists  in  the  Supreme  Soviet 
reinstated  him  as  president,  but  two  days  later  he  was  forced  to 
flee  the  country  when  APF-led  crowds  stormed  the  government 
buildings  in  Baku.  An  interim  APF  government  assumed  power 
until  previously  scheduled  presidential  elections  could  be  held 
one  month  later.  APF  leader  and  intellectual  Abulfaz  Elchibey, 
who  won  over  59  percent  of  the  vote  in  a  five-candidate  elec- 
toral contest,  then  formed  Azerbaijan's  first  postcommunist 
government.  Elchibey  served  as  president  only  one  year,  how- 
ever, before  being  forced  to  flee  Baku  in  mid-June  1993  in  the 
face  of  an  insurrection  led  by  a  disgruntled  military  officer. 


97 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Taking  advantage  of  the  chaos,  Aliyev  returned  to  power,  and 
an  election  in  October  1993  confirmed  him  as  president. 

Efforts  to  Resolve  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  Crisis,  1993 

By  the  end  of  1993,  the  conflict  over  Nagorno-Karabakh 
had  caused  thousands  of  casualties  and  created  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  refugees  on  both  sides.  In  a  national  address  in 
November  1993,  Aliyev  stated  that  16,000  Azerbaijani  troops 
had  died  and  22,000  had  been  injured  in  nearly  six  years  of 
fighting.  The  UN  estimated  that  nearly  1  million  refugees  and 
displaced  persons  were  in  Azerbaijan  at  the  end  of  1993.  Medi- 
ation was  attempted  by  officials  from  Russia,  Kazakhstan,  and 
Iran,  among  other  countries,  as  well  as  by  organizations  includ- 
ing the  UN  and  the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe  (CSCE — see  Glossary),  which  began  sponsoring 
peace  talks  in  mid-1992.  All  negotiations  met  with  little  success, 
however,  and  several  cease-fires  broke  down.  In  mid-1993 
Aliyev  launched  efforts  to  negotiate  a  solution  directly  with  the 
Karabakh  Armenians,  a  step  Elchibey  had  refused  to  take. 
Aliyev's  efforts  achieved  several  relatively  long  cease-fires  within 
Nagorno-Karabakh,  but  outside  the  region  Armenians  occu- 
pied large  sections  of  southwestern  Azerbaijan  near  the  Iranian 
border  during  offensives  in  August  and  October  1993.  Iran  and 
Turkey  warned  the  Karabakh  Armenians  to  cease  their  offen- 
sive operations,  which  threatened  to  spill  over  into  foreign  ter- 
ritory. The  Armenians  responded  by  claiming  that  they  were 
driving  back  Azerbaijani  forces  to  protect  Nagorno-Karabakh 
from  shelling. 

In  1993  the  UN  Security  Council  called  for  Armenian  forces 
to  cease  their  attacks  on  and  occupation  of  a  number  of  Azer- 
baijani regions.  In  September  1993,  Turkey  strengthened  its 
forces  along  its  border  with  Armenia  and  issued  a  warning  to 
Armenia  to  withdraw  its  troops  from  Azerbaijan  immediately 
and  unconditionally.  At  the  same  time,  Iran  was  conducting 
military  maneuvers  near  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Repub- 
lic in  a  move  widely  regarded  as  a  warning  to  Armenia.  Iran 
proposed  creation  of  a  twenty-kilometer  security  zone  along 
the  Irani  an- Azerbaijani  border,  where  Azerbaijanis  would  be 
protected  by  Iranian  firepower.  Iran  also  contributed  to  the 
upkeep  of  camps  in  southwestern  Azerbaijan  to  house  and  feed 
up  to  200,000  Azerbaijanis  fleeing  the  fighting. 

Fighting  continued  into  early  1994,  with  Azerbaijani  forces 
reportedly  winning  some  engagements  and  regaining  some  ter- 


98 


Azerbaijan 


ritory  lost  in  previous  months.  In  January  1994,  Aliyev  pledged 
that  in  the  coming  year  occupied  territory  would  be  liberated 
and  Azerbaijani  refugees  would  return  to  their  homes.  At  that 
point,  Armenian  forces  held  an  estimated  20  percent  of  Azer- 
baijan's territory  outside  Nagorno-Karabakh,  including  160 
kilometers  along  the  Iranian  border. 

Physical  Environment 

Three  physical  features  dominate  Azerbaijan:  the  Caspian 
Sea,  whose  shoreline  forms  a  natural  boundary  to  the  east;  the 
Greater  Caucasus  mountain  range  to  the  north;  and  the  exten- 
sive flatlands  at  the  country's  center  (see  fig.  2).  About  the  size 
of  Portugal  or  the  state  of  Maine,  Azerbaijan  has  a  total  land 
area  of  approximately  86,600  square  kilometers,  less  than  1 
percent  of  the  land  area  of  the  former  Soviet  Union.  Of  the 
three  Transcaucasian  states,  Azerbaijan  has  the  greatest  land 
area.  Special  administrative  subdivisions  are  the  Nakhichevan 
Autonomous  Republic,  which  is  separated  from  the  rest  of 
Azerbaijan  by  a  strip  of  Armenian  territory,  and  the  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  Autonomous  Region,  entirely  within  Azerbaijan. 
(The  status  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  was  under  negotiation  in 
1994.)  Located  in  the  region  of  the  southern  Caucasus  Moun- 
tains, Azerbaijan  borders  the  Caspian  Sea  to  the  east,  Iran  to 
the  south,  Armenia  to  the  southwest  and  west,  and  Georgia  and 
Russia  to  the  north  (see  fig.  1).  A  small  part  of  Nakhichevan 
also  borders  Turkey  to  the  northwest.  The  capital  of  Azerbaijan 
is  the  ancient  city  of  Baku,  which  has  the  largest  and  best  har- 
bor on  the  Caspian  Sea  and  has  long  been  the  center  of  the 
republic's  oil  industry. 

Topography  and  Drainage 

The  elevation  changes  over  a  relatively  short  distance  from 
lowlands  to  highlands;  nearly  half  the  country  is  considered 
mountainous.  Notable  physical  features  are  the  gently  undulat- 
ing hills  of  the  subtropical  southeastern  coast,  which  are  cov- 
ered with  tea  plantations,  orange  groves,  and  lemon  groves; 
numerous  mud  volcanoes  and  mineral  springs  in  the  ravines  of 
Kobystan  Mountain  near  Baku;  and  coastal  terrain  that  lies  as 
much  as  twenty-eight  meters  below  sea  level. 

Except  for  its  eastern  Caspian  shoreline  and  some  areas  bor- 
dering Georgia  and  Iran,  Azerbaijan  is  ringed  by  mountains. 
To  the  northeast,  bordering  Russia's  Dagestan  Autonomous 
Republic,  is  the  Greater  Caucasus  range;  to  the  west,  bordering 


99 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Armenia,  is  the  Lesser  Caucasus  range.  To  the  extreme  south- 
east, the  Talish  Mountains  form  part  of  the  border  with  Iran. 
The  highest  elevations  occur  in  the  Greater  Caucasus,  where 
Mount  Bazar-dyuzi  rises  4,740  meters  above  sea  level.  Eight 
large  rivers  flow  down  from  the  Caucasus  ranges  into  the  cen- 
tral Kura-Aras  lowlands,  alluvial  flatlands  and  low  delta  areas 
along  the  seacoast  designated  by  the  Azerbaijani  name  for  the 
Mtkvari  River  and  its  main  tributary,  the  Aras.  The  Mtkvari,  the 
longest  river  in  the  Caucasus  region,  forms  a  delta  and  drains 
into  the  Caspian  a  short  distance  downstream  from  the  conflu- 
ence with  the  Aras.  The  Mingechaur  Reservoir,  with  an  area  of 
605  square  kilometers  that  makes  it  the  largest  body  of  water  in 
Azerbaijan,  was  formed  by  damming  the  Mtkvari  in  western 
Azerbaijan.  The  waters  of  the  reservoir  provide  hydroelectric 
power  and  irrigation  to  the  Kura-Aras  plain.  Most  of  the  coun- 
try's rivers  are  not  navigable.  About  15  percent  of  the  land  in 
Azerbaijan  is  arable. 

Climate 

The  climate  varies  from  subtropical  and  dry  in  central  and 
eastern  Azerbaijan  to  subtropical  and  humid  in  the  southeast, 
temperate  along  the  shores  of  the  Caspian  Sea,  and  cold  at  the 
higher  mountain  elevations.  Baku,  on  the  Caspian,  enjoys  mild 
weather,  averaging  4°C  in  January  and  25°C  in  July.  Because 
most  of  Azerbaijan  receives  scant  rainfall — on  average  152  to 
254  millimeters  annually — agricultural  areas  require  irrigation. 
Heaviest  precipitation  occurs  in  the  highest  elevations  of  the 
Caucasus  and  in  the  Lenkoran'  Lowlands  in  the  far  southeast, 
where  the  yearly  average  exceeds  1,000  millimeters. 

Environmental  Problems 

Air  and  water  pollution  are  widespread  and  pose  great  chal- 
lenges to  economic  development.  Major  sources  of  pollution 
include  oil  refineries  and  chemical  and  metallurgical  indus- 
tries, which  in  the  early  1990s  continued  to  operate  as  ineffi- 
ciently as  they  had  in  the  Soviet  era.  Air  quality  is  extremely 
poor  in  Baku,  the  center  of  oil  refining.  Some  reports  have 
described  Baku's  air  as  the  most  polluted  in  the  former  Soviet 
Union,  and  other  industrial  centers  suffer  similar  problems. 

The  Caspian  Sea,  including  Baku  Bay,  has  been  polluted  by 
oil  leakages  and  the  dumping  of  raw  or  inadequately  treated 
sewage,  reducing  the  yield  of  caviar  and  fish.  In  the  Soviet 
period,  Azerbaijan  was  pressed  to  use  extremely  heavy  applica- 


100 


Azerbaijan 


tions  of  pesticides  to  improve  its  output  of  scarce  subtropical 
crops  for  the  rest  of  the  Soviet  Union.  Particularly  egregious 
was  the  continued  regular  use  of  the  pesticide  DDT  in  the 
1970s  and  1980s,  although  that  chemical  was  officially  banned 
in  the  Soviet  Union  because  of  its  toxicity  to  humans.  Excessive 
application  of  pesticides  and  chemical  fertilizers  has  caused 
extensive  groundwater  pollution  and  has  been  linked  by  Azer- 
baijani scientists  to  birth  defects  and  illnesses.  Rising  water  lev- 
els in  the  Caspian  Sea,  mainly  caused  by  natural  factors 
exacerbated  by  man-made  structures,  have  reversed  a  decades- 
long  drying  trend  and  now  threaten  coastal  areas;  the  average 
level  rose  1.5  meters  between  1978  and  1993.  Because  of  the 
Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  large  numbers  of  trees  were  felled, 
roads  were  built  through  pristine  areas,  and  large  expanses  of 
agricultural  land  were  occupied  by  military  forces. 

Like  other  former  Soviet  republics,  Azerbaijan  faces  a  gigan- 
tic environmental  cleanup  complicated  by  the  economic 
uncertainties  left  in  the  wake  of  the  Moscow-centered  planning 
system.  The  Committee  for  the  Protection  of  the  Natural  Envi- 
ronment is  part  of  the  Azerbaijani  government,  but  in  the  early 
1990s  it  was  ineffective  at  targeting  critical  applications  of  lim- 
ited funds,  establishing  pollution  standards,  and  monitoring 
compliance  with  environmental  regulations.  Early  in  1994, 
plans  called  for  Azerbaijan  to  participate  in  the  international 
Caspian  Sea  Forum,  sponsored  by  the  European  Union  (EU). 

Population  and  Ethnic  Composition 

The  majority  of  Azerbaijan's  population  consists  of  a  single 
ethnic  group  whose  problems  with  ethnic  minorities  have  been 
dominated  by  the  Armenian  uprisings  in  Nagorno-Karabakh. 
Nevertheless,  Azerbaijan  includes  several  other  significant  eth- 
nic groups.  The  population  of  the  country  is  concentrated  in  a 
few  urban  centers  and  in  the  most  fertile  agricultural  regions. 

Population  Characteristics 

In  mid-1993  the  population  of  Azerbaijan  was  estimated  at 
7.6  million.  With  eighty-eight  persons  per  square  kilometer, 
Azerbaijan  is  the  second  most  densely  populated  of  the  Trans- 
caucasian  states;  major  portions  of  the  populace  live  in  and 
around  the  capital  of  Baku  and  in  the  Kura-Aras  agricultural 
area.  Baku's  population  exceeded  1.1  million  in  the  late  1980s, 
but  an  influx  of  war  refugees  increased  that  figure  to  an  esti- 
mated 1.7  million  in  1993.  In  1993  the  estimated  population 


101 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

growth  rate  of  Azerbaijan  was  1.5  percent  per  year.  Gyandzha 
(formerly  Kirovabad),  in  western  Azerbaijan,  is  the  second 
most  populous  city,  with  a  population  of  more  than  270,000, 
followed  by  Sumgait,  just  north  of  Baku,  with  a  population  of 
235,000;  figures  for  both  cities  are  official  1987  estimates.  Since 
that  time,  Gyandzha  and  Sumgait,  like  Baku,  have  been  swollen 
by  war  refugees.  With  54  percent  of  Azerbaijanis  living  in  urban 
areas  by  1989,  Azerbaijan  was  one  of  the  most  urbanized  of  the 
Muslim  former  Soviet  republics.  According  to  the  1989  census, 
the  population  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  was  200,000,  of  which 
over  75  percent  was  ethnically  Armenian. 

In  1989  life  expectancy  was  sixty-seven  years  for  males  and 
seventy-four  years  for  females.  According  to  legend  and  to 
Soviet-era  statistics,  unusually  large  numbers  of  centenarians 
and  other  long-lived  people  live  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  and 
other  areas  of  Azerbaijan.  In  1990  the  birth  rate  was  twenty-five 
per  1,000  population.  The  fertility  rate  has  declined  signifi- 
cantly since  1970,  when  the  average  number  of  births  per 
woman  was  4.6.  According  to  Western  estimates,  the  figure  was 
2.8  in  1990. 

In  1987  Azerbaijan's  crude  death  rate  was  about  twelve  per 
1,000.  As  in  other  former  Soviet  republics,  the  rate  was  some- 
what higher  than  in  1970.  In  Azerbaijan,  however,  the  death 
rate  continued  rising  through  1992  because  of  the  escalating 
number  of  accidents,  suicides,  and  murders;  fatalities  caused  by 
the  conflict  with  Armenia  were  also  a  factor. 

According  to  the  1989  census,  about  85  percent  of  the  pop- 
ulation was  Azerbaijani  (5.8  million),  5.8  percent  was  Russian 
(392,300),  and  5.8  percent  was  Armenian  (390,500).  The  per- 
centage of  Azerbaijanis  has  increased  in  recent  decades 
because  of  a  high  birth  rate  and  the  emigration  of  Russians  and 
other  minorities.  Between  1959  and  1989,  the  Azerbaijani 
share  of  the  population  rose  by  16  percent.  Since  that  time, 
however,  growth  of  the  Azerbaijani  share  of  the  population  has 
accelerated  with  the  addition  of  an  estimated  200,000  Azer- 
baijani deportees  and  refugees  from  Armenia  and  the  quicken- 
ing  rate  of  Armenian  emigration.  About  13  million 
Azerbaijanis  reside  in  the  northern  provinces  of  neighboring 
Iran.  Smaller  groups  live  in  Georgia,  the  Dagestan  Autono- 
mous Republic  of  Russia  to  Azerbaijan's  north,  Uzbekistan, 
Turkmenistan,  Kazakhstan,  and  Ukraine. 


102 


Azerbaijan 


The  Role  of  Women 

Although  religious  practice  in  Azerbaijan  is  less  restrictive  of 
women's  activities  than  in  most  of  the  other  Muslim  countries, 
vestiges  of  the  traditional  female  role  remain.  Particularly  in 
rural  communities,  women  who  appear  in  public  unaccompa- 
nied, smoke  in  public,  drive  automobiles,  or  visit  certain  the- 
aters and  restaurants  are  subject  to  disapproval.  Nevertheless, 
the  majority  of  Azerbaijani  women  have  jobs  outside  the  home, 
and  a  few  have  attained  leadership  positions.  In  July  1993, 
Aliyev  appointed  surgeon  Lala-Shovket  Gajiyeva  as  his  state  sec- 
retary (a  position  equivalent  at  that  time  to  vice  president), 
largely  because  of  her  outspoken  views  on  Azerbaijani  political 
problems.  Gajiyeva  was  a  champion  of  women's  rights  and  in 
late  1993  founded  a  political  party  critical  of  Aliyev's  policies. 
In  January  1994,  she  was  moved  from  state  secretary  to  perma- 
nent representative  to  the  UN,  presumably  because  of  her  con- 
troversial positions. 

Smaller  Ethnic  Minorities 

After  the  Azerbaijanis,  Russians,  and  Armenians,  the  next 
largest  group  is  the  Lezgians  (Dagestanis),  the  majority  of 
whom  live  across  the  Russian  border  in  Dagestan,  but  171,000 
of  whom  resided  in  northern  Azerbaijan  in  1989  (see  fig.  9). 
The  Lezgians,  who  are  predominantly  Sunni  (see  Glossary) 
Muslims  and  speak  a  separate  Caucasian  language,  have  called 
for  greater  rights,  including  the  right  to  maintain  contacts  with 
Lezgians  in  Russia.  In  October  1992,  President  Elchibey  prom- 
ised informally  that  border  regulations  would  be  interpreted 
loosely  to  assuage  these  Lezgian  concerns. 

In  1989  another  262,000  people  belonging  to  ninety  other 
nationalities  lived  in  Azerbaijan.  These  groups  include  Avars, 
Kurds,  Talish,  and  Tats.  The  Talish  in  Azerbaijan,  estimates  of 
whose  numbers  varied  from  the  official  1989  census  figure  of 
21,000  to  their  own  estimates  of  200,000  to  300,000,  are  an  Ira- 
nian people  living  in  southeastern  Azerbaijan  and  contiguous 
areas  of  Iran.  Like  the  Lezgians,  the  Talish  have  called  for 
greater  rights  since  Azerbaijan  became  independent. 

In  1992  Elchibey  attempted  to  reassure  ethnic  minorities  by 
issuing  an  order  that  the  government  defend  the  political,  eco- 
nomic, social,  and  cultural  rights  and  freedoms  of  non-Azer- 
baijanis,  and  by  setting  up  the  Consultative  Council  on 
Interethnic  Relations  as  part  of  the  presidential  apparatus.  At 


103 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Figure  9.  Ethnic  Groups  in  Azerbaijan 

no  point,  however,  were  Armenians  mentioned  among  the  pro- 
tected ethnic  minorities. 

Language,  Religion,  and  Culture 

Although  Azerbaijan's  history  shows  the  mark  of  substantial 
religious  and  cultural  influence  from  Iran,  linguistically  and 
ethnically  the  country  is  predominantly  Turkic.  The  republic 
was  part  of  the  Soviet  Union  for  seventy  years,  but  Russian  cul- 
ture had  only  an  incidental  impact. 

Language 

The  official  language  is  Azerbaijani,  a  Turkic  tongue 
belonging  to  the  southern  branch  of  the  Altaic  languages.  In 


104 


Azerbaijan 


1994  it  was  estimated  that  some  82  percent  of  Azerbaijan's  citi- 
zens speak  Azerbaijani  as  their  first  language.  In  addition,  38 
percent  of  Azerbaijanis  speak  Russian  fluently,  reflecting  Rus- 
sian domination  of  the  economy  and  politics.  Although  official 
Soviet  figures  showed  that  about  32  percent  of  Russians  living 
in  Azerbaijan  spoke  Azerbaijani,  the  Russian  population  gener- 
ally was  reluctant  to  learn  the  local  language.  Most  Armenians 
living  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  use  Russian  rather  than  Azer- 
baijani as  their  second  language. 

The  Azerbaijani  language  is  part  of  the  Oghuz,  or  Western 
Turkic,  group  of  Turkic  languages,  together  with  Anatolian 
Turkish  (spoken  in  Turkey)  and  Turkmen  (spoken  in  Turk- 
menistan). The  Oghuz  tribes  of  Central  Asia  spoke  this  precur- 
sor language  between  the  seventh  and  eleventh  centuries.  The 
three  descendent  languages  share  common  linguistic  features. 
Dialectical  differences  between  Azerbaijani  and  Anatolian 
Turkish  have  been  attributed  to  Mongolian  and  Turkic  influ- 
ences. Despite  these  differences,  Anatolian  Turkish  speakers 
and  Azerbaijanis  can  often  understand  one  another  if  they 
speak  carefully.  Spoken  Azerbaijani  includes  several  dialects. 
Beginning  in  the  nineteenth  century,  Russian  loanwords  (par- 
ticularly technical  terms)  and  grammatical  and  lexical  struc- 
tures entered  the  Azerbaijani  language  in  Russian-controlled 
Azerbaijan,  as  did  Persian  words  in  Iranian  Azerbaijan.  The 
resulting  variants  remain  mutually  intelligible,  however. 

In  the  immediate  pre-Soviet  period,  literature  in  Azerbaijan 
was  written  in  Arabic  in  several  literary  forms  that  by  1900  were 
giving  way  to  a  more  vernacular  Azerbaijani  Turkish  form.  In 
1924  Soviet  officials  pressured  the  Azerbaijani  government  into 
approving  the  gradual  introduction  of  a  modified  Roman 
alphabet.  Scholars  have  speculated  that  this  decision  was  aimed 
at  isolating  the  Muslim  peoples  from  their  Islamic  culture,  thus 
reducing  the  threat  of  nationalist  movements.  In  the  late 
1930s,  however,  Soviet  authorities  reversed  their  policy  and  dic- 
tated use  of  the  Cyrillic  alphabet,  which  became  official  in 
1940.  Turkey's  switch  to  a  modified  Roman  alphabet  in  1928 
may  have  prompted  Stalin  to  reinforce  Azerbaijan's  isolation 
from  dangerous  outside  influences  by  switching  to  Cyrillic. 
This  change  also  made  it  easier  for  Azerbaijanis  to  learn  Rus- 
sian. 

When  the  Soviet  Union  disintegrated,  the  alphabet  question 
arose  once  again.  Iran  reportedly  advocated  use  of  Arabic  as 
part  of  a  campaign  to  expand  the  influence  of  Shia  (see  Glos- 


105 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

sary)  Islam  in  Azerbaijan.  Most  Azerbaijani  intellectuals  ulti- 
mately rejected  switching  to  Arabic,  however,  noting  that  Iran 
had  not  allowed  proper  study  of  the  Azerbaijani  language  in 
northern  Iran.  Instead,  the  intellectuals  preferred  a  modified 
Roman  alphabet  incorporating  symbols  for  unique  Azerbaijani 
language  sounds.  In  December  1991,  the  legislature  approved 
a  gradual  return  to  a  "New  Roman"  alphabet. 

Religion 

The  prophet  Zoroaster  (Zarathustra),  who  was  born  in  the 
seventh  century  B.C.  in  what  is  now  Azerbaijan,  established  a 
religion  focused  on  the  cosmic  struggle  between  a  supreme 
god  and  an  evil  spirit.  Islam  arrived  in  Azerbaijan  with  Arab 
invaders  in  the  seventh  century  A.D.,  gradually  supplanting 
Zoroastrianism  and  Azerbaijani  pagan  cults.  In  the  seventh  and 
eighth  centuries,  many  Zoroastrians  fled  Muslim  persecution 
and  moved  to  India,  where  they  became  known  as  Parsis.  Until 
Soviet  Bolsheviks  ended  the  practice,  Zoroastrian  pilgrims 
from  India  and  Iran  traveled  to  Azerbaijan  to  worship  at  sacred 
sites,  including  the  Surakhany  Temple  on  the  Apsheron  Penin- 
sula near  Baku. 

In  the  sixteenth  century,  the  first  shah  of  the  Safavid 
Dynasty,  Ismail  I  (r.  1486-1524),  established  Shia  Islam  as  the 
state  religion,  although  large  numbers  of  Azerbaijanis 
remained  followers  of  the  other  branch  of  Islam,  Sunni.  The 
Safavid  court  was  subject  to  both  Turkic  (Sunni)  and  Iranian 
(Shia)  influences,  however,  which  reinforced  the  dual  nature 
of  Azerbaijani  religion  and  culture  in  that  period.  As  elsewhere 
in  the  Muslim  world,  the  two  branches  of  Islam  came  into  con- 
flict in  Azerbaijan.  Enforcement  of  Shia  Islam  as  the  state  reli- 
gion brought  contention  between  the  Safavid  rulers  of 
Azerbaijan  and  the  ruling  Sunnis  of  the  neighboring  Ottoman 
Empire. 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  many  Sunni  Muslims  emigrated 
from  Russian-controlled  Azerbaijan  because  of  Russia's  series 
of  wars  with  their  coreligionists  in  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Thus, 
by  the  late  nineteenth  century,  the  Shia  population  was  in  the 
majority  in  Russian  Azerbaijan.  Antagonism  between  the  Sun- 
nis and  the  Shia  diminished  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  as 
Azerbaijani  nationalism  began  to  emphasize  a  common  Turkic 
heritage  and  opposition  to  Iranian  religious  influences.  At 
present,  about  three-quarters  of  Azerbaijani  Muslims  are  at 


106 


Azerbaijan 


If  ast  nominally  Shia  (and  87  percent  of  the  population  were 
Muslim  in  1989). 

Azerbaijan's  next  largest  official  religion  is  Christianity,  rep- 
resented mainly  by  Russian  Orthodox  and  Armenian  Apostolic 
groups.  Some  rural  Azerbaijanis  retain  pre-Islamic  shamanist 
or  animist  beliefs,  such  as  the  sanctity  of  certain  sites  and  the 
veneration  of  certain  trees  and  rocks. 

Before  Soviet  power  was  established,  about  2,000  mosques 
were  active  in  Azerbaijan.  Most  mosques  were  closed  in  the 
1930s,  then  some  were  allowed  to  reopen  during  World  War  II. 
In  the  1980s,  however,  only  two  large  and  five  smaller  mosques 
held  services  in  Baku,  and  only  eleven  others  were  operating  in 
the  rest  of  the  country.  Supplementing  the  officially  sanctioned 
mosques  were  thousands  of  private  houses  of  prayer  and  many 
secret  Islamic  sects.  Beginning  in  the  late  Gorbachev  period, 
and  especially  after  independence,  the  number  of  mosques 
rose  dramatically.  Many  were  built  with  the  support  of  other 
Islamic  countries,  such  as  Iran,  Oman,  and  Saudi  Arabia,  which 
also  contributed  Qurans  (Korans)  and  religious  instructors  to 
the  new  Muslim  states.  A  Muslim  seminary  has  also  been  estab- 
lished since  1991.  As  in  the  other  former  Soviet  Muslim  repub- 
lics, religious  observances  in  Azerbaijan  do  not  follow  all  the 
traditional  precepts  of  Islam.  For  example,  drinking  wine  is 
permitted,  and  women  are  not  veiled  or  segregated. 

During  World  War  II,  Soviet  authorities  established  the  Mus- 
lim Spiritual  Board  of  Transcaucasia  in  Baku  as  the  governing 
body  of  Islam  in  the  Caucasus,  in  effect  reviving  the  nine- 
teenth-century tsarist  Muslim  Ecclesiastical  Board.  During  the 
tenures  of  Brezhnev  and  Gorbachev,  Moscow  encouraged  Mus- 
lim religious  leaders  in  Azerbaijan  to  visit  and  host  foreign 
Muslim  leaders,  with  the  goal  of  advertising  the  freedom  of 
religion  and  superior  living  conditions  reportedly  enjoyed  by 
Muslims  under  Soviet  communism. 

In  the  early  1980s,  Allashukur  Humatogly  Pashazade  was 
appointed  sheikh  ul-Islam,  head  of  the  Muslim  board.  With  the 
breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Muslim  board  became  known 
as  the  Supreme  Religious  Council  of  the  Caucasus  Peoples.  In 
late  1993,  the  sheikh  blessed  Heydar  Aliyev  at  his  swearing-in 
ceremony  as  president  of  Azerbaijan. 

The  Arts 

Azerbaijanis  have  sought  to  protect  their  cultural  identity 
from  long-standing  outside  influences  by  fostering  indigenous 


107 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

forms  of  artistic  and  intellectual  expression.  They  proudly 
point  to  a  number  of  scientists,  philosophers,  and  literary  fig- 
ures who  have  built  their  centuries-old  cultural  tradition. 

Literature  and  Music 

Before  the  eleventh  century,  literary  influences  included 
the  Zoroastrian  sacred  text,  the  Avesta,  Turkish  prose-poetry, 
and  oral  history  recitations  (called  dastans),  such  as  The  Book  of 
Dede  Korkut  and  Koroglu,  which  contain  pre-Islamic  elements. 
Among  the  classics  of  medieval  times  are  the  Astronomy  of  Abul 
Hasan  Shirvani  (written  in  the  eleventh  or  twelfth  century) 
and  Khamseh,  a  collection  of  five  long  romantic  poems  written 
in  Persian  by  the  twelfth-century  poet  Nezami  Ganjavi.  Fuzuli 
(1494-1556)  wrote  poetry  and  prose  in  Turkish,  most  notably 
the  poem  Laila  and  Majnun,  the  satire  A  Book  of  Complaints,  and 
the  treatise  To  the  Heights  of  Conviction.  Fuzuli's  works  influ- 
enced dramatic  and  operatic  productions  in  the  early  twentieth 
century.  Shah  Ismail  I,  who  was  also  the  first  Safavid  shah, 
wrote  court  poems  in  Turkish.  Fuzuli  and  Ismail  are  still  read  in 
their  original  Turkish  dialects,  which  are  very  similar  to  mod- 
ern literary  Azerbaijani. 

In  music  an  ancient  tradition  was  carried  into  modern  times 
by  ashugs,  poet-singers  who  presented  ancient  songs  or  verses 
or  improvised  new  ones,  accompanied  by  a  stringed  instru- 
ment called  the  kobuz.  Another  early  musical  form  was  the 
mugam,  a  composition  of  alternating  vocal  and  instrumental 
segments  most  strongly  associated  with  the  ancient  town  of 
Shusha  in  Nagorno-Karabakh. 

Decorative  Arts  and  Crafts 

Carpet  and  textile  making,  both  of  which  are  ancient  Azer- 
baijani crafts,  flourished  during  the  medieval  period,  and  Azer- 
baijani products  became  well  known  in  Asia  and  Europe. 
Azerbaijani  carpets  and  textiles  were  known  for  their  rich  vege- 
tation patterns,  depictions  from  the  poetry  of  Nezami  Ganjavi, 
and  traditional  themes.  Each  region  produced  its  own  distinc- 
tive carpet  patterns.  Silk  production  became  significant  in  the 
eighteenth  century.  During  the  Soviet  period,  carpets,  textiles, 
and  silk  continued  to  be  made  in  factories  or  at  home.  In  medi- 
eval times,  ornately  chased  weaponry  was  another  major 
export.  Azerbaijan  was  also  famed  for  miniature  books  incor- 
porating elaborate  calligraphy  and  illustrations. 


108 


Man  and  woman  in 
traditional  costume 
Courtesy  Embassy  of 


Azerbaijan, 
Washington 


Architecture 

Azerbaijani  architecture  typically  combines  elements  of  East 
and  West.  Many  ancient  architectural  treasures  survive  in  mod- 
ern Azerbaijan.  These  sites  include  the  so-called  Maiden  Tower 
in  Baku,  a  rampart  that  has  been  dated  variously  from  the  pre- 
Christian  era  to  the  twelfth  century,  and  from  the  top  of  which, 
legend  says,  a  distraught  medieval  maiden  flung  herself. 
Among  other  medieval  architectural  treasures  reflecting  the 
influence  of  several  schools  are  the  Shirvan  shahs'  palace  in 
Baku,  the  palace  of  the  Sheki  khans  in  the  town  of  Sheki  in 
north-central  Azerbaijan,  the  Surakhany  Temple  on  the  Apshe- 
ron Peninsula,  a  number  of  bridges  spanning  the  Aras  River, 
and  several  mausoleums.  In  the  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth 
centuries,  little  monumental  architecture  was  created,  but  dis- 
tinctive residences  were  built  in  Baku  and  elsewhere.  Among 
the  most  recent  architectural  monuments,  the  Baku  subways 
are  noted  for  their  lavish  decor. 

The  Cultural  Renaissance 

In  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  in  the 
early  twentieth  century,  Azerbaijan  underwent  a  cultural 
renaissance  that  drew  on  the  golden  age  of  the  eleventh  to  the 
thirteenth  centuries  and  other  influences.  The  patronage  of 
the  arts  and  education  that  characterized  this  movement  was 


109 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

fueled  in  part  by  increasing  oil  wealth.  Azerbaijan's  new  indus- 
trial and  commercial  elites  contributed  funds  for  the  establish- 
ment of  many  libraries,  schools,  hospitals,  and  charitable 
organizations.  In  the  1880s,  philanthropist  Haji  Zeinal  Adibin 
Taghiyev  built  and  endowed  Baku's  first  theater. 

Artistic  flowering  in  Azerbaijan  inspired  Turkic  Muslims 
throughout  the  Russian  Empire  and  abroad,  stimulating 
among  other  phenomena  the  establishment  of  theaters  and 
opera  houses  that  were  among  the  first  in  the  Muslim  world. 
Tsarist  authorities  first  encouraged,  then  tolerated,  and  finally 
used  intensified  Russification  against  this  assertion  of  artistic 
independence. 

Several  artists  played  important  roles  in  the  renaissance. 
Mirza  Fath  Ali  Akhundzade  (also  called  Akhundov;  1812-78),  a 
playwright  and  philosopher,  influenced  the  Azerbaijani  literary 
language  by  writing  in  vernacular  Azerbaijani  Turkish.  His 
plays,  among  the  first  significant  theater  productions  in  Azer- 
baijan, continue  to  have  wide  popular  appeal  as  models  of 
form  in  the  late  twentieth  century.  The  composer  and  poet 
Uzeir  Hajibeyli  (1885-1948)  used  traditional  instruments  and 
themes  in  his  musical  compositions,  among  which  were  the 
first  operas  in  the  Islamic  world.  The  poet  and  playwright 
Husein  Javid  (1882-1941)  wrote  in  Turkish  about  historical 
themes,  most  notably  the  era  of  Timur. 

Under  Soviet  rule,  Azerbaijani  cultural  expression  was  cir- 
cumscribed and  forcibly  supplanted  by  Russian  cultural  values. 
Particularly  during  Stalin's  purges  of  the  1930s,  many  Azer- 
baijani writers  and  intellectuals  were  murdered,  and  ruthless 
attempts  were  made  to  erase  evidence  of  their  lives  and  work 
from  historical  records.  Cultural  monuments,  libraries, 
mosques,  and  archives  were  destroyed.  The  two  forcible 
changes  of  alphabet  in  the  1920s  and  1930s  further  isolated 
Azerbaijanis  from  their  literary  heritage.  Never  completely 
extinguished  during  the  Soviet  period,  however,  Azerbaijani 
culture  underwent  a  modest  rebirth  during  Khrushchev's 
relaxation  of  controls  in  the  1950s,  when  many  who  had  been 
victims  of  Stalin's  purges  were  posthumously  rehabilitated  and 
their  works  republished.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  another 
rebirth  occurred  when  Moscow  again  loosened  cultural  restric- 
tions. Under  Aliyev's  first  regime,  publication  of  some  mildly 
nationalist  pieces  was  allowed,  including  serialization  of  Aziza 
Jafarzade's  historical  novel  Baku  1501. 


110 


Azerbaijan 


In  the  late  1980s,  Gorbachev's  policy  of  glasnost  (see  Glos- 
sary) energized  a  major  movement  among  Azerbaijani  writers 
and  historians  to  illuminate  "blank  pages"  in  the  nation's  past, 
such  as  Azerbaijani  resistance  to  tsarist  and  Soviet  power  and 
Stalin's  crimes  against  the  peoples  of  the  Soviet  Union. 
Reprints  of  Azerbaijani  historical  and  literary  classics  became 
more  plentiful,  as  did  political  tracts  on  topics  such  as  Azer- 
baijani claims  to  Nagorno-Karabakh. 

Education,  Health,  and  Welfare 

When  the  Soviet  Union  crumbled,  Azerbaijan,  like  other 
former  Soviet  republics,  was  forced  to  end  its  reliance  upon  the 
uniform,  centralized  system  of  social  supports  that  had  been 
administered  from  Moscow.  In  the  early  1990s,  however,  Azer- 
baijan did  not  have  the  resources  to  make  large-scale  changes 
in  the  delivery  of  educational,  health,  and  welfare  services,  so 
the  basic  Soviet-era  structures  remained  in  place. 

Education 

In  the  pre-Soviet  period,  Azerbaijani  education  included 
intensive  Islamic  religious  training  that  commenced  in  early 
childhood.  Beginning  at  roughly  age  five  and  sometimes  con- 
tinuing until  age  twenty,  children  attended  madrasahs,  educa- 
tion institutions  affiliated  with  mosques.  In  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries,  madrasahs  were  established  as  sepa- 
rate education  institutions  in  major  cities,  but  the  religious 
component  of  education  remained  significant.  In  1865  the  first 
technical  high  school  and  the  first  women's  high  school  were 
opened  in  Baku.  In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  secular  ele- 
mentary schools  for  Azerbaijanis  began  to  appear  (schools  for 
ethnic  Russians  had  been  established  earlier),  but  institutions 
of  higher  education  and  the  use  of  the  Azerbaijani  language  in 
secondary  schools  were  forbidden  in  Transcaucasia  through- 
out the  tsarist  period.  The  majority  of  ethnic  Azerbaijani  chil- 
dren received  no  education  in  this  period,  and  the  Azerbaijani 
literacy  rate  remained  very  low,  especially  among  women.  Few 
women  were  allowed  to  attend  school. 

In  the  Soviet  era,  literacy  and  average  education  levels  rose 
dramatically  from  their  very  low  starting  point,  despite  two 
changes  in  the  standard  alphabet,  from  Arabic  to  Roman  in  the 
1920s  and  from  Roman  to  Cyrillic  in  the  1930s  (see  Language, 
this  ch.).  According  to  Soviet  data,  100  percent  of  males  and 
females  (ages  nine  to  forty-nine)  were  literate  in  1970. 


Ill 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

During  the  Soviet  period,  the  Azerbaijani  education  system 
was  based  on  the  standard  model  imposed  by  Moscow,  which 
featured  state  control  of  all  education  institutions  and  heavy 
doses  of  Marxist-Leninist  ideology  at  all  levels.  Since  indepen- 
dence, the  Azerbaijani  system  has  undergone  little  structural 
change.  Initial  alterations  have  included  the  reestablishment  of 
religious  education  (banned  during  the  Soviet  period)  and 
curriculum  changes  that  have  reemphasized  the  use  of  the 
Azerbaijani  language  and  have  eliminated  ideological  content. 
In  addition  to  elementary  schools,  the  education  institutions 
include  thousands  of  preschools,  general  secondary  schools, 
and  vocational  schools,  including  specialized  secondary 
schools  and  technical  schools.  Education  through  the  eighth 
grade  is  compulsory.  At  the  end  of  the  Soviet  period,  about  18 
percent  of  instruction  was  in  Russian,  but  the  use  of  Russian 
began  a  steady  decline  beginning  in  1988.  A  few  schools  teach 
in  Armenian  or  Georgian. 

Azerbaijan  has  more  than  a  dozen  institutions  of  higher 
education,  in  which  enrollment  totaled  105,000  in  1991. 
Because  Azerbaijani  culture  has  always  included  great  respect 
for  secular  learning,  the  country  traditionally  has  been  an  edu- 
cation center  for  the  Muslim  peoples  of  the  former  Soviet 
Union.  For  that  reason  and  because  of  the  role  of  the  oil  indus- 
try in  Azerbaijan's  economy,  a  relatively  high  percentage  of 
Azerbaijanis  have  obtained  some  form  of  higher  education, 
most  notably  in  scientific  and  technical  subjects.  Several  voca- 
tional institutes  train  technicians  for  the  oil  industry  and  other 
primary  industries. 

The  most  significant  institutions  of  higher  education  are  the 
University  of  Azerbaijan  in  Baku,  the  Institute  of  Petroleum 
and  Chemistry,  the  Polytechnic  Institute,  the  Pedagogical  Insti- 
tute, the  Mirza  Fath  Ali  Akhundzade  Pedagogical  Institute  for 
Languages,  the  Azerbaijan  Medical  Institute,  and  the  Uzeir 
Hajibeyli  Conservatory.  Much  scientific  research,  which  during 
the  Soviet  period  dealt  mainly  with  enhancing  oil  production 
and  refining,  is  carried  out  by  the  Azerbaijani  Academy  of  Sci- 
ences, which  was  established  in  1945.  The  University  of  Azer- 
baijan, established  in  1919,  includes  more  than  a  dozen 
departments,  ranging  from  physics  to  Oriental  studies,  and  has 
the  largest  library  in  Azerbaijan.  The  student  population  num- 
bers more  than  11,000,  and  the  faculty  over  600.  The  Institute 
of  Petroleum  and  Chemistry,  established  in  1920,  has  more 
than  15,000  students  and  a  faculty  of  about  1,000.  The  institute 


112 


History  class  in 
elementary  school,  Sheki 
Courtesy  Jay  Kempen 


trains  engineers  and  scientists  in  the  petrochemical  industry, 
geology,  and  related  areas. 


Azerbaijan's  health  care  system  was  one  of  the  least  effective 
in  the  Soviet  republics,  and  it  deteriorated  further  after  inde- 
pendence. On  the  eve  of  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1991,  the  number  of  physicians  per  1,000  people  in  Azerbaijan 
was  about  four,  the  number  of  hospital  beds  about  ten,  and  the 
number  of  pharmacists  about  seven — all  figures  below  the  aver- 
age for  the  Soviet  Union  as  a  whole  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 
According  to  reports,  in  the  late  1980s  some  736  hospitals  and 
clinics  were  operating  in  Azerbaijan,  but  according  to  Soviet 
data  some  of  those  were  rudimentary  facilities  with  little  equip- 
ment. Medical  facilities  also  include  several  dozen  sanatoriums 
and  special  children's  health  facilities.  The  leading  medical 
schools  in  Azerbaijan  are  the  Azerbaijan  Medical  Institute  in 
Baku,  which  trains  doctors  and  pharmacists,  and  the  Institute 
for  Advanced  Training  of  Physicians.  Several  research  institutes 
also  conduct  medical  studies. 

After  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union,  Azerbaijan's  declin- 
ing economy  made  it  impossible  for  the  Azerbaijani  govern- 
ment to  provide  full  support  of  the  health  infrastructure. 
Shortages  of  medicines  and  equipment  have  occurred,  and 


Health 


113 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

some  rural  clinics  have  closed.  In  1993  a  Western  report  evalu- 
ated Azerbaijan's  sanitation,  pharmacies,  medical  system,  medi- 
cal industry,  and  medical  research  and  development  as  below 
average,  relative  to  similar  services  in  the  other  former  Soviet 
republics. 

In  1987  the  leading  causes  of  death  in  order  of  occurrence 
were  cardiovascular  disease,  cancer,  respiratory  infection,  and 
accidents.  The  official  1991  infant  mortality  rate — twenty-five 
per  1,000  population — was  by  far  the  highest  among  the  Trans- 
caucasian  nations.  International  experts  estimated  an  even 
higher  rate,  however,  if  the  standard  international  definition  of 
infant  mortality  is  used. 

Social  Welfare 

The  traditional  extended  family  provides  an  unofficial  sup- 
port system  for  family  members  who  are  elderly  or  who  are  full- 
time  students.  The  official  social  safety  net  nominally  ensures 
at  least  a  subsistence  income  to  all  citizens,  continuing  the 
practice  of  the  Soviet  era.  Stated  benefits  include  old-age,  dis- 
ability, and  survivor  pensions;  additional  allowances  for  chil- 
dren and  supported  family  members;  sick  and  maternity  leave; 
temporary  disability  and  unemployment  compensation  for 
workers;  food  subsidies;  and  tax  exemptions  for  designated 
social  groups.  Most  of  these  benefits  are  financed  by  extrabud- 
getary  funds;  in  1992  more  than  4.2  million  rubles  were  trans- 
ferred from  the  budget  to  the  State  Pension  Fund,  however. 

The  actual  effect  of  the  social  welfare  system  has  differed 
greatly  from  its  stated  goals.  During  the  late  Soviet  period, 
Azerbaijanis  complained  that  their  social  benefits  ranked  near 
the  bottom  among  the  Soviet  republics.  The  economic  disloca- 
tions that  followed  independence  eroded  those  benefits  even 
further.  In  December  1993,  the  government  estimated  that  80 
percent  of  the  Azerbaijani  population  was  living  below  the  pov- 
erty level,  even  though  about  15  percent  of  the  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  was  spent  on  social  security  ben- 
efits. 

The  minimum  monthly  wage  is  set  by  presidential  decree, 
but  several  increases  in  the  minimum  wage  in  1992-93  failed  to 
keep  pace  with  the  high  rate  of  inflation.  Retirement  pensions, 
based  on  years  of  service  and  average  earnings,  also  fell  behind 
the  cost  of  living  in  that  period. 

In  the  postcommunist  era,  government  price  controls  have 
also  been  used  to  ease  the  transition  from  the  centrally 


114 


Dentist's  office,  Baku 
Courtesy  OlegLitvin, 
Azerbaijan  International 


planned  economy.  In  1992  subsidies  were  introduced  to  keep 
prices  low  for  such  items  as  bread,  meat,  butter,  sugar,  cooking 
oil,  local  transportation,  housing,  and  medical  care  (see  table 
9;  table  10,  Appendix).  At  that  point,  the  price-support  safety 
net  was  expected  to  absorb  at  least  7  percent  of  the  projected 
national  budget.  At  the  end  of  1993,  major  increases  in  bread 
and  fuel  prices  heightened  social  tensions  and  triggered  riots 
because  compensation  to  poor  people,  students,  and  refugees 
was  considered  inadequate. 

The  Economy 

Azerbaijan  possesses  fertile  agricultural  lands,  rich  indus- 
trial resources,  including  considerable  oil  reserves,  and  a  rela- 
tively developed  industrial  sector.  Utilization  of  those  resources 
in  the  Soviet  period,  however,  was  subject  to  the  usual  distor- 
tions of  centralized  planning.  In  the  early  1990s,  economic  out- 
put declined  drastically.  The  major  factors  in  that  decline  were 
the  deterioration  of  trade  relations  with  the  other  former 
Soviet  republics,  the  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  erosion  of 
consumer  buying  power,  and  retention  of  the  ruble  alongside 
the  national  currency.  In  1994  the  economy  remained  heavily 
dependent  on  the  other  former  republics  of  the  Soviet  Union, 
especially  Russia. 


115 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

The  Work  Force 

According  to  Azerbaijani  statistics,  the  work  force  num- 
bered 2.7  million  individuals  in  1992.  Agriculture  was  the  larg- 
est area  of  employment  (34  percent),  followed  by  industry  (16 
percent)  and  education  and  culture  (12  percent).  In  the  indus- 
trial sector,  the  oil,  chemical,  and  textile  industries  were  major 
employers  (see  table  11,  Appendix).  In  spite  of  the  standard 
communist  proclamation  that  employment  was  a  right  and 
employment  was  virtually  full,  large-scale,  chronic  unemploy- 
ment had  already  emerged  in  the  late  1980s,  especially  among 
youth  and  the  growing  ranks  of  refugees  and  displaced  persons 
(see  table  12,  Appendix).  In  1992  unemployment  was  still  offi- 
cially characterized  as  a  minor  problem,  affecting  some 
200,000  people,  but  in  fact  the  Azerbaijani  government  vastly 
underreported  this  statistic.  Underreporting  was  facilitated  by 
the  practice  of  keeping  workers  listed  as  employees  in  idled 
industries.  Funds  set  aside  by  the  government  to  deal  with 
unemployment  proved  woefully  inadequate.  One  Western  eco- 
nomic agency  estimated  the  1992  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  as  US$18.6  billion  and  the  average  per 
capita  GNP  as  US$2,480,  placing  Azerbaijan  sixth  and  eighth  in 
those  respective  categories  among  the  former  Soviet  republics. 

Economic  Dislocations 

The  general  economic  dislocations  within  the  Soviet  Union 
in  the  late  Gorbachev  period  hurt  Azerbaijan  by  weakening 
interrepublic  trade  links.  After  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet 
Union,  trade  links  among  the  former  republics  weakened  fur- 
ther. Azerbaijani  enterprises  responded  by  establishing  many 
new  trade  ties  on  an  ad  hoc  basis.  Although  some  moves  were 
made  toward  a  market  economy,  state  ownership  of  the  means 
of  production  and  state  direction  of  the  economy  still  domi- 
nated in  early  1994. 

Despite  the  economic  turmoil  caused  in  1992  and  1993  by 
the  demise  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  conflict  in  Nagorno- 
Karabakh,  the  Azerbaijani  economy  remained  in  better  condi- 
tion than  those  of  its  neighbors  Armenia  and  Georgia  and 
some  of  the  Central  Asian  states.  According  to  estimates  by 
Western  economists,  gross  industrial  production  plunged  at 
least  26  percent  in  1992  and  10  percent  in  1993. 

In  1992  poor  weather  contributed  to  a  decline  in  produc- 
tion of  important  cash  crops.  Crude  oil  and  refinery  produc- 


116 


Cultivation  of  tea  in  Lenkoran'  Lowlands 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Azerbaijan,  Washington 

tion  continued  a  recent  downward  spiral,  reflecting  a  lack  of 
infrastructure  maintenance  and  other  inputs.  Inflation  took  off 
in  early  1992,  when  many  prices  were  decontrolled,  and  accel- 
erated throughout  the  year,  reaching  an  annual  rate  of  735  per- 
cent by  October.  Inflation  for  1993  was  estimated  at  1,200 
percent,  a  figure  exceeded  only  by  rates  for  Russia  and  a  few 
other  CIS  states.  Officials  tried  unsuccessfully  to  protect  the 
standard  of  living  from  inflation  by  periodically  increasing 
wage  payments  and  taking  other  measures.  In  his  New  Year's 
message  in  January  1994,  Aliyev  acknowledged  that  during 

1993  Azerbaijan  had  faced  a  serious  economic  crisis  that  led  to 
further  declines  in  the  standard  of  living,  but  he  promised  that 

1994  would  witness  positive  changes. 

Agriculture 

The  major  agricultural  cash  crops  are  grapes,  cotton, 
tobacco,  citrus  fruits,  and  vegetables.  The  first  three  crops 


117 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

account  for  over  half  of  all  production,  and  the  last  two 
together  account  for  an  additional  30  percent.  Livestock,  dairy 
products,  and  wine  and  spirits  are  also  important  farm  prod- 
ucts (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

In  the  early  1990s,  Azerbaijan's  agricultural  sector  required 
substantial  restructuring  if  it  were  to  realize  its  vast  potential. 
Prices  for  agricultural  products  did  not  rise  as  fast  as  the  cost  of 
inputs;  the  Soviet-era  collective  farm  system  discouraged  pri- 
vate initiative;  equipment  in  general  and  the  irrigation  system 
in  particular  were  outdated;  modern  technology  had  not  been 
introduced  widely;  and  administration  of  agricultural  programs 
was  ineffective. 

Most  of  Azerbaijan's  cultivated  lands,  which  total  over  1  mil- 
lion hectares,  are  irrigated  by  more  than  40,000  kilometers  of 
canals  and  pipelines.  The  varied  climate  allows  cultivation  of  a 
wide  variety  of  crops,  ranging  from  peaches  to  almonds  and 
from  rice  to  cotton.  In  the  early  1990s,  agricultural  production 
contributed  about  30  to  40  percent  of  Azerbaijan's  net  material 
product  (NMP — see  Glossary),  while  directly  employing  about 
one-third  of  the  labor  force  and  providing  a  livelihood  to  about 
half  the  country's  population.  In  the  early  postwar  decades, 
Azerbaijan's  major  cash  crops  were  cotton  and  tobacco,  but  in 
the  1970s  grapes  became  the  most  productive  crop.  An  anti- 
alcohol  campaign  by  Moscow  in  the  mid-1980s  contributed  to  a 
sharp  decline  in  grape  production  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1991 
grapes  accounted  for  over  20  percent  of  agricultural  produc- 
tion, followed  closely  by  cotton. 

Production  of  virtually  all  crops  declined  in  the  early  1990s. 
In  1990  work  stoppages  and  anti-Soviet  demonstrations  con- 
tributed to  declines  in  agricultural  production.  The  conflict  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh,  the  site  of  about  one-third  of  Azerbaijan's 
croplands,  substantially  reduced  agricultural  production  begin- 
ning in  1989.  In  1992  agriculture's  contribution  to  NMP 
declined  by  22  percent.  This  drop  was  attributed  mainly  to  cool 
weather,  which  reduced  cotton  and  grape  harvests,  and  to  the 
continuation  of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict.  The  conflict- 
induced  blockade  of  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic 
also  disrupted  agriculture  there. 

An  estimated  1,200  state  and  cooperative  farms  are  in  oper- 
ation in  Azerbaijan,  with  little  actual  difference  between  the 
rights  and  privileges  of  state  and  cooperative  holdings.  Small 
private  garden  plots,  constituting  only  a  fraction  of  total  culti- 
vated land,  contribute  as  much  as  20  percent  of  agricultural 


118 


Azerbaijan 


production  and  more  than  half  of  livestock  production.  Private 
landholders  do  not  have  equal  access,  however,  to  the  inputs, 
services,  and  financing  that  would  maximize  their  output. 

The  Azerbaijani  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Food  runs  pro- 
curement centers  dispersed  throughout  the  country  for  gov- 
ernment purchase  of  most  of  the  tobacco,  cotton,  tea,  silk,  and 
grapes  that  are  produced.  The  Ministry  of  Grain  and  Bread 
Products  runs  similar  operations  that  buy  a  major  portion  of 
grain  production.  Remaining  crops  are  sold  in  the  private  sec- 
tor. 

Industry 

During  World  War  II,  relocated  and  expanded  factories  in 
Azerbaijan  produced  steel,  electrical  motors,  and  finished 
weaponry  for  the  Soviet  Union's  war  effort.  The  canning  and 
textile  industries  were  expanded  to  process  foodstuffs  and  cot- 
ton from  Azerbaijan's  fields.  Azerbaijan's  postwar  industrial 
economy  was  based  on  those  wartime  activities.  Among  the  key 
elements  of  that  base  were  petrochemical-derived  products 
such  as  plastics  and  tires,  oil-drilling  equipment,  and  processed 
foods  and  textiles  (see  table  14,  Appendix).  In  1991  the  largest 
share  of  Azerbaijan's  industrial  output  was  contributed  by  the 
food  industry,  followed  by  light  industry  (defined  to  include 
synthetic  and  natural  textiles,  leather  goods,  carpets,  and  furni- 
ture), fuels,  and  machine  building.  Significant  food  processing 
and  cotton  textile  operations  are  located  in  Gyandzha  in  west- 
ern Azerbaijan,  and  petrochemical-based  industries  are  clus- 
tered near  Baku.  The  city  of  Sumgait,  just  north  of  Baku,  is  the 
nation's  center  for  steel,  iron,  and  other  metallurgical  indus- 
tries. 

The  Soviet-era  Azerbaijan  Oil  Machinery  Company 
(Azneftemash)  controls  virtually  all  of  Azerbaijan's  oil  equip- 
ment industry.  Once  a  major  exporter  of  equipment  to  the  rest 
of  the  Soviet  Union,  Azneftemash  has  remained  dependent 
since  1991  on  imports  of  parts  from  the  other  former  Soviet 
republics.  The  economic  decline  and  the  breakup  of  the  union 
has  disrupted  imports  and  caused  an  estimated  output  reduc- 
tion of  27  percent  in  the  Azerbaijani  oil  equipment  industry  in 
1992. 

Energy 

Azerbaijan  has  ample  energy  resources,  including  major 
hydroelectric  generating  capacity  and  offshore  oil  reserves  in 


119 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

the  Caspian  Sea.  Despite  what  amounts  to  an  overall  excess  of 
production  capacity,  fuel  shortages  and  transport  problems  dis- 
rupted generation  in  the  early  1990s.  In  1991  Azerbaijan  pro- 
duced 23  billion  kilowatt-hours,  but  near  the  end  of  1992  the 
country  had  produced  only  16  billion  kilowatt-hours.  Electric- 
ity is  generated  at  major  hydroelectric  plants  on  the  Mtkvari, 
Terter  (in  western  Azerbaijan),  and  Aras  rivers  (the  last  a  joint 
project  with  Iran).  A  larger  share  of  power  comes  from  oil-fired 
electric  power  plants,  however.  In  the  late  Soviet  period,  Azer- 
baijan's power  plants  were  part  of  the  Joint  Transcaucasian 
Power  Grid  shared  with  Armenia  and  Georgia,  but  Azerbaijan 
cut  off  power  to  Armenia  as  a  result  of  the  conflict  over 
Nagorno-Karabakh. 

Azerbaijan  has  exported  oil  and  gas  to  Russia  since  the  late 
nineteenth  century.  The  birthplace  of  the  oil-refining  industry 
at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  Azerbaijan  was  the 
world's  leading  producer  of  petroleum.  During  World  War  II, 
about  70  percent  of  the  Soviet  Union's  petroleum  output  came 
from  the  small  republic.  After  World  War  II,  when  oil  output 
from  the  Volga-Ural  oil  fields  in  Russia  increased,  Azerbaijan 
lost  its  position  as  a  dominant  producer  of  Soviet  oil.  When  the 
Soviet  Union  disintegrated,  Azerbaijan  was  producing  60  per- 
cent of  Soviet  oil  extraction  machinery  and  spare  parts  but  less 
than  2  percent  of  the  union's  oil. 

Azerbaijan's  four  major  offshore  oil  fields  in  the  Caspian 
Sea  are  Gunesli,  Cirak,  Azeri,  and  Kepez.  In  1992  the  Gunesli 
field  accounted  for  about  60  percent  of  Azerbaijani  oil  produc- 
tion. Crude  oil  production  has  decreased  in  recent  years, 
mainly  because  of  a  weak  global  market,  well  maturity,  inade- 
quate investment,  and  outdated  equipment.  According  to  Azer- 
baijani estimates,  for  the  first  seven  months  of  1993  compared 
with  the  same  period  in  1992,  crude  oil  production  declined 
7.1  percent,  gasoline  refining  2.8  percent,  and  diesel  fuel  pro- 
duction 19.9  percent.  These  rates  of  decline  compare  favor- 
ably, however,  with  those  experienced  in  the  oil  production 
and  refining  industries  of  Russia,  Turkmenistan,  and  other 
former  Soviet  republics  in  the  early  1990s. 

Some  oil  is  shipped  by  train  to  Black  Sea  ports  in  Russia  and 
Ukraine,  and  some  is  shipped  by  tanker  to  northern  Iran.  Pipe- 
line shipment  has  been  slowed  by  infrastructure  problems. 
One  old  oil  pipeline  from  Azerbaijan  to  the  Georgian  port  of 
Batumi  on  the  Black  Sea  is  inoperable,  and  the  Russian  pipe- 
line is  unavailable  because  that  line  is  already  at  capacity.  Azer- 


120 


Baku  Harbor 
Courtesy  Azerbaijan  International 


baijan's  oil  production  is  processed  at  two  refineries  near  Baku. 
Because  domestic  oil  production  has  not  matched  refining 
capacity  in  recent  years,  the  refineries  also  process  Kazakh  and 
Russian  oil. 

Russia,  Ukraine,  and  other  former  Soviet  republics  have 
been  involved  in  contentious  negotiations  with  Azerbaijan  over 
oil  payment.  Azerbaijan  has  sought  prices  close  to  world  mar- 
ket rates  for  its  oil  as  large  payment  arrearages  have  developed 
with  several  customer  states.  Azerbaijanis  seek  "fair  payment" 
for  their  oil  from  Russia,  pointing  out  that  during  the  Soviet 
period  Azerbaijani  oil  was  sold  far  below  market  prices  to  sup- 
port the  Soviet  economy. 

Azerbaijan  has  encouraged  joint  ventures  and  other  agree- 
ments with  foreign  oil  firms,  and  a  consortium  has  been 
formed  with  Russia,  Kazakhstan,  and  Oman  to  build  an  oil 
pipeline  to  Mediterranean,  Persian  Gulf,  or  Black  Sea  ports.  In 


121 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

the  planning  stage,  Russia  advocated  a  Black  Sea  route, 
whereas  Western  oil  companies,  also  interested  in  Azerbaijan's 
oil,  preferred  a  Mediterranean  terminus  for  a  pipeline  used  in 
common.  In  March  1993,  Turkey  and  Azerbaijan  agreed  on  a 
pipeline  traversing  Iran,  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Repub- 
lic, and  southern  Turkey  to  reach  the  Mediterranean.  In  1993 
other  negotiations  defined  terms  of  exploitation  by  eight  West- 
ern oil  companies  in  two  Caspian  oil  fields  and  established  a 
profit-sharing  ratio  between  Azerbaijan  and  its  partners.  In  late 
1993,  Russia's  role  in  the  oil  industry  also  increased  with  the 
signing  of  new  bilateral  agreements. 

Azerbaijan  has  proven  natural  gas  reserves  of  2  trillion  cubic 
meters,  and  a  much  larger  amount  is  present  in  association 
with  offshore  oil  deposits.  Although  the  price  of  natural  gas  in 
Azerbaijan  has  remained  low  compared  with  world  prices,  in 
1991  about  half  the  gas  brought  to  the  surface  was  burned  off 
or  vented,  while  consumption  of  fuel  oil  increased.  Since  1991 
Azerbaijan's  production  has  declined  to  a  level  that  meets  only 
about  35  percent  of  domestic  needs,  which  amounted  to  17  bil- 
lion cubic  meters  per  year  in  1993.  The  major  sources  of  natu- 
ral gas  imports  are  Turkmenistan,  Kazakhstan,  and  Iran. 
Experts  consider  that  exploitation  of  untapped  natural  gas 
deposits  would  enhance  Azerbaijan's  domestic  fuel  balance 
and  provide  substantial  export  income. 

Economic  Reform 

Azerbaijan's  prospects  for  movement  toward  a  market  econ- 
omy are  enhanced  by  a  fairly  well-developed  infrastructure,  an 
educated  labor  force,  diversity  in  both  agricultural  and  indus- 
trial production,  and  yet-untapped  oil  reserves.  Obstacles  to 
reform  include  the  rigidity  of  remaining  Soviet  economic 
structures,  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  continued  trade 
dependence  on  the  other  former  Soviet  republics,  insufficient 
economic  expertise  to  guide  the  transition,  and  capital  stock 
that  is  inefficient  and  environmentally  hazardous. 

Price  Liberalization 

In  January  1992,  about  70  to  80  percent  of  producer  and 
consumer  prices  were  decontrolled,  although  prices  for  com- 
modities such  as  gasoline  were  artificially  increased.  Further 
rounds  of  price  liberalization  took  place  in  April,  September, 
and  December  1992.  Because  most  industries  are  still  monopo- 
lies, price-setting  is  supervised  by  the  Antimonopoly  Commit- 


122 


Azerbaijan 


tee,  which  approves  requests  for  price  increases.  Because  the 
state  still  procures  much  of  Azerbaijan's  agricultural  produc- 
tion, prices  are  set  by  negotiations  between  the  state  and  pro- 
ducers. 

Retail  price  inflation  surged  after  the  first  round  of  price 
liberalization  in  January  1992.  Thereafter,  the  monthly  rate 
eased  somewhat,  averaging  about  24  percent  during  most  of 

1992.  According  to  official  figures,  in  1993  average  living 
expenses  exceeded  income  by  about  50  percent.  The  ratio  of 
expenses  to  income  was  about  the  same  in  Kazakhstan  and 
worse  in  Armenia  and  Turkmenistan.  Although  prices  for  items 
such  as  bread  and  fuel  remained  controlled  during  1993,  in 
November  1993  the  government  announced  price  rises 
because  commodities  were  being  smuggled  out  of  Azerbaijan 
to  be  sold  elsewhere  where  prices  were  higher.  By  the  end  of 

1993,  it  was  reported  that  the  minimum  weekly  wage  would  not 
even  buy  one  loaf  of  bread  and  that  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
refugees  in  Azerbaijan  "simply  face  starvation,"  a  situation  that 
heightened  social  and  political  instability. 

Privatization 

From  the  earliest  days  of  Azerbaijan's  independence,  the 
country  had  a  vigorous,  small-scale  private  economy  whose 
most  urgent  need  was  unambiguous  legislation  that  would 
legitimize  its  operations  and  allow  expansion.  A  privatization 
law  passed  in  January  1993  was  not  implemented  fully  in  the 
year  following.  Privatization  plans  envisioned  sales,  auctions, 
and  joint-stock  enterprises.  Small  retail  establishments  would 
be  privatized  by  auction,  and  medium-sized  and  large  enter- 
prises would  be  privatized  by  a  combination  of  auctions  and 
joint-stock  programs.  Retail  establishments  were  supposed  to 
be  privatized  fully  by  the  end  of  1993,  but  this  goal  was  not  met. 
Housing  was  also  to  be  privatized  by  transferring  ownership  to 
the  present  tenants.  At  the  end  of  1993,  land  redistribution  was 
stalled  by  disagreement  over  the  choice  between  private  owner- 
ship and  long-term  leaseholding,  over  optimum  terms  for 
either  of  those  arrangements,  and  over  the  distribution  of  agri- 
cultural equipment. 

The  Budget 

To  lessen  the  budgetary  impact  of  losing  subsidies  from  the 
Soviet  Union,  beginning  in  1992  a  value-added  tax  (VAT — see 
Glossary)  and  excise  taxes  were  introduced  to  replace  sales  and 


123 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

turnover  taxes.  The  new  taxes  enabled  Azerbaijan  to  maintain 
only  a  small  state  budgetary  deficit  for  1992  (see  table  15, 
Appendix).  The  deficit  came  mainly  from  increases  in  wages 
and  from  defense  and  refugee  expenses  related  to  the  conflict 
in  Nagorno-Karabakh.  State-owned  enterprises  continued  to 
survive  on  liberal  bank  credits  and  interenterprise  borrowing, 
which  caused  the  accumulation  of  sizable  debts.  Substantial 
increases  in  defense  expenditures  (from  1.3  percent  of  GDP  in 
1991  to  7.6  percent  in  1992)  drastically  reduced  expenditures 
for  consumer  subsidies  in  bread  and  fuels,  as  well  as  govern- 
ment investment  and  other  support  for  enterprises.  Increased 
salaries  for  civil  servants  also  increased  the  1992  deficit. 

In  mid-1992  Azerbaijan  was  not  receiving  enough  printed 
rubles  from  Moscow  to  meet  wage  payments,  so  it  introduced 
its  own  currency,  the  manat  (for  value  of  the  manat — see  Glos- 
sary). Because  domestic  financial  transactions  still  involved 
Russian  banks  and  because  many  rubles  remained  in  circula- 
tion, the  ruble  remained  as  an  alternate  currency.  After  ruble 
notes  became  more  plentiful  in  late  1992,  the  manat  remained 
a  small  fraction  of  circulating  currency.  In  September  1993, 
Azerbaijan  planned  to  make  the  manat  the  sole  national  cur- 
rency, but  the  weakness  of  the  Azerbaijani  monetary  and  finan- 
cial systems  forced  postponement  of  that  move.  The  manat 
finally  became  the  sole  currency  in  January  1994. 

Banking 

Under  the  Soviet  system,  Azerbaijani  banks  were  subordi- 
nate to  central  banks  in  Moscow  and  elsewhere  in  Russia.  Bank 
funds  were  distributed  according  to  a  single  state  plan,  and 
republic  banks  had  little  input  into  the  raising  or  allocation  of 
funds.  In  early  1992,  former  Soviet  banks  were  incorporated 
into  the  National  Bank  of  Azerbaijan  (NBA).  The  1992  Law  on 
Banks  and  Banking  Activity  and  the  Law  on  the  National  Bank 
established  the  NBA  as  the  top  level  of  the  new  system  and 
commercial  banks  (state-  and  privately  owned)  on  the  second 
level.  However,  in  1993  the  system  was  undermined  by  poor 
technology,  large  unresolved  debts  among  state-owned  enter- 
prises, irregular  participation  by  enterprises,  and  bank  delays 
in  transferring  funds.  The  main  bank  for  the  exchange  of 
funds  among  private  and  state  enterprises  is  the  Industrial 
Investment  Joint  Stock  Commercial  Bank. 


124 


Azerbaijan 


Foreign  Trade 

As  during  the  Soviet  era,  Azerbaijan's  economy  depends 
heavily  on  foreign  trade,  including  commerce  with  the  other 
former  Soviet  republics.  In  the  late  1980s,  exports  and  imports 
averaged  about  40  percent  of  GDP.  At  that  time,  Azerbaijan's 
exports  to  other  Soviet  republics  averaged  46  percent  of  GDP 
and  over  90  percent  of  total  exports;  its  imports  from  those 
republics  averaged  37  percent  of  GDP  and  nearly  80  percent  of 
total  imports.  In  the  early  1990s,  Azerbaijan's  main  trading 
partners  in  the  CIS  were  Russia,  Ukraine,  Kazakhstan,  and 
Belarus,  in  that  order. 

In  the  last  years  of  the  Soviet  Union,  Azerbaijan  showed  a 
net  trade  surplus.  After  a  sharp  decline  in  the  net  trade  surplus 
in  1990,  oil  sales  outside  the  Soviet  Union  boosted  the  surplus 
in  1991  and  1992.  In  1992  Azerbaijan  made  major  gains  in 
hard-  currency  exports,  mainly  from  selling  refined  oil  prod- 
ucts abroad  at  world  prices.  Trade  with  CIS  countries,  deter- 
mined by  yearly  bilateral  agreements,  declined  significantly 
after  1991.  Although  products  from  those  countries  still  domi- 
nated Azerbaijan's  imports,  less  than  half  of  exports  went  to 
them.  Important  obstacles  were  the  bypassing  of  the  state  order 
system  in  the  Baltic  states  and  Russia,  the  high  VAT  on  some 
items,  and  the  complexity  of  central-bank  credit  systems  in  the 
transitional  period.  Trade  agreements  were  negotiated  for 
1993  with  Belarus,  Estonia,  Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Lithuania, 
Moldova,  Russia,  Turkmenistan,  and  Ukraine. 

In  1990  Azerbaijan's  major  trading  partners  outside  the 
Soviet  Union  were  led  by  Germany  and  Poland  (see  table  16, 
Appendix).  In  1992  Azerbaijan's  main  non-CIS  trading  part- 
ners were  Britain  and  Iran.  According  to  government  statistics 
for  1993,  Azerbaijan  had  a  large  trade  surplus  with  Russia,  and 
more  than  US$60  billion  was  owed  Azerbaijan  by  customers  in 
Greece,  Iran,  and  Turkey.  Through  1993  Turkish  enterprises, 
considered  a  primary  source  of  new  foreign  capital,  refrained 
from  large-scale  investment  in  Azerbaijan  because  of  concerns 
about  political  instability  in  Baku.  Disagreements  with  Russia 
and  Turkey  delayed  construction  of  an  oil  pipeline  that  would 
connect  Baku  with  the  Mediterranean  through  Turkish  terri- 
tory (see  Energy,  this  ch.). 

In  the  early  1990s,  increasing  numbers  of  products  were 
sold  directly  by  Azerbaijani  enterprises  to  foreign  enterprises 
without  government  export  licenses,  although  the  inefficient 
state-managed  trade  system  of  the  Soviet  era  remained  in  place. 


125 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

In  1993  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Economic  Relations  monitored 
all  foreign  trade  and  supervised  the  export  of  petroleum  prod- 
ucts and  other  strategic  items.  In  late  1993,  government  con- 
trol was  tightened  because  most  private  firms  were  keeping 
hard-currency  foreign-trade  earnings  outside  Azerbaijan. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Azerbaijan's  transportation  system  is  extensive  for  a  country 
of  its  size  and  level  of  economic  development.  Analysts 
attribute  this  advantage  to  the  fact  that  when  Azerbaijan  was 
part  of  the  Soviet  Union,  its  economy  was  heavily  geared  to 
export  of  petroleum  and  to  transshipment  of  goods  across  the 
Caucasus.  The  system  is  burdened  by  an  extensive  bureaucracy, 
however,  that  makes  prompt  equipment  repair  difficult,  and 
the  country's  economic  problems  have  delayed  replacement  of 
aging  equipment  and  facilities. 

In  1990  Azerbaijan  had  36,700  kilometers  of  roads,  31,800 
kilometers  of  which  were  paved.  One  of  the  country's  two  main 
routes  parallels  the  Caspian  Sea  coast  from  Russia  to  Iran,  pass- 
ing through  Baku  (see  fig.  10).  The  other,  Route  M27,  leads 
west  out  of  the  capital  to  the  Georgian  border.  A  major  branch 
from  this  route  heads  south  through  Stepanakert,  capital  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  All  major  towns  have  a  paved  road  connec- 
tion with  one  of  the  principal  routes.  An  extensive  intercity  bus 
service  is  the  primary  mode  of  intercity  travel.  Maintenance  of 
the  system  has  deteriorated  since  independence  in  1991,  how- 
ever, and  one  study  estimated  that  60  percent  of  the  main  high- 
ways were  in  bad  condition,  resulting  in  excessive  wear  on 
vehicles  and  tires  and  in  poor  fuel  consumption. 

Azerbaijan  had  2,090  kilometers  of  rail  lines  in  1990,  exclud- 
ing several  small  industrial  lines.  Most  lines  are  1.520-meter 
broad  gauge,  and  the  principal  routes  are  electrified.  In  the 
1990s,  the  rail  system  carried  the  vast  majority  of  the  country's 
freight.  As  with  the  highway  system,  one  of  the  two  main  lines 
parallels  the  Caspian  Sea  coast  from  Russia  to  Iran  before  head- 
ing west  to  Turkey,  and  the  other  closely  parallels  Route  M27 
from  Baku  to  the  Georgian  border.  A  major  spur  also  parallels 
the  highway  to  Stepanakert.  Another  smaller  rail  line  begins 
just  west  of  Baku  and  hugs  the  Iranian  border  to  provide  the 
only  rail  link  to  Azerbaijan's  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Repub- 
lic, isolated  southwest  of  Armenia.  Passenger  service  from  Baku 
to  Erevan  has  been  suspended,  and  service  from  Baku  to  Tbilisi 
has  sometimes  been  disrupted  because  of  the  Nagorno-Kara- 


126 


Azerbaijan 


bakh  conflict.  In  1994  passenger  service  from  Baku  to  Iran  also 
was  halted.  Trains  making  the  forty-three-hour  trip  to  Moscow, 
however,  still  operate  three  times  daily.  The  government  esti- 
mates that  700  kilometers,  or  about  one-third,  of  the  rail  system 
are  in  such  poor  condition  that  reconstruction  is  necessary. 
Much  of  the  system  has  speed  restrictions  because  of  the  poor 
condition  of  the  rails. 

Baku  has  a  modest  subway  system  with  twenty-nine  kilome- 
ters of  heavy-rail  lines.  The  system  has  eighteen  stations  and  is 
arranged  in  two  lines  that  cross  in  the  center  of  the  city. 
Another  seventeen  kilometers,  under  construction  in  1994, 
would  add  twelve  more  stations  to  the  system. 

In  1992  Azerbaijan  had  twenty-six  airfields  with  paved  sur- 
faces. Baku  International  Airport,  twenty-eight  kilometers 
southwest  of  the  city,  is  the  country's  principal  airport.  The 
number  of  international  air  passengers  is  higher  in  Azerbaijan 
than  in  Armenia  and  Georgia,  with  most  air  traffic  moving 
between  Baku  and  cities  in  the  former  Soviet  Union.  Besides 
flights  to  Russia,  Azerbaijan  Airlines  provides  service  to  Turkey 
and  Iran,  and  direct  flights  on  foreign  carriers  are  available  to 
Pakistan  and  Tajikistan. 

Although  situated  on  an  excellent  natural  harbor,  Baku  has 
not  developed  into  a  major  international  port  because  of  its 
location  on  the  landlocked  Caspian  Sea.  The  port  serves  mostly 
as  a  transshipment  point  for  goods  (primarily  petroleum  prod- 
ucts and  lumber)  crossing  the  Caspian  Sea  and  destined  for 
places  to  the  west,  or  for  passenger  service  to  ports  on  the  east- 
ern or  southern  shores  of  the  Caspian  Sea.  The  port  has  seven- 
teen berths,  of  which  five  are  dedicated  for  transport  of  crude 
oil  and  petroleum  products,  two  are  used  for  passengers,  and 
the  remaining  ten  handle  timber  or  other  cargo.  The  port  can 
accommodate  ships  up  to  12,000  tons,  and  its  facilities  include 
portal  cranes,  tugboats,  and  equipment  for  handling  petro- 
leum and  petroleum  products.  The  port  area  has  10,000  square 
meters  of  covered  storage  and  28,700  square  meters  of  open 
storage. 

Baku  is  the  center  of  a  major  oil-  and  gas-producing  region, 
and  major  long-distance  pipelines  radiate  from  the  region's  oil 
fields  to  all  neighboring  areas.  Pipelines  are  generally  high- 
capacity  lines  and  have  diameters  of  either  1,020  or  1,220  milli- 
meters. The  main  petroleum  pipeline  pumps  crude  oil  from 
the  onshore  and  offshore  Caspian  fields  near  Baku  west  across 
Azerbaijan  and  Georgia  to  the  Black  Sea  port  of  Batumi. 


127 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Figure  10.  Transportation  System  of  Azerbaijan,  1994 

There,  the  oil  is  either  exported  in  its  crude  form  or  processed 
at  Batumi's  refinery.  Two  natural  gas  lines  parallel  the  petro- 
leum line  as  far  as  Tbilisi,  where  they  turn  north  across  the 
Caucasus  Mountains  to  join  the  grid  of  natural  gas  pipelines 
that  supply  cities  throughout  Russia  and  Eastern  Europe.  A 
spur  extends  off  these  main  gas  pipelines  in  western  Azerbaijan 
to  deliver  gas  to  Nakhichevan.  This  spur  crosses  Armenian  ter- 
ritory, however,  and  in  1994  its  status  was  unclear.  Altogether, 
in  1994  Azerbaijan  had  1,130  kilometers  of  crude  oil  pipeline, 
630  kilometers  of  pipeline  for  petroleum  products,  and  1,240 
kilometers  of  natural  gas  pipeline. 

In  1991  some  644,000  telephone  lines  were  in  operation, 
providing  nine  telephones  per  100  persons.  At  that  time, 
200,000  Azerbaijanis  were  on  waiting  lists  for  telephone  instal- 


128 


Azerbaijan 


lation.  Azerbaijan's  telephone  system  is  connected  with  other 
CIS  republics  by  cable  and  microwave,  but  connections  to  non- 
CIS  countries  go  through  Moscow.  In  1992  Turkey  provided 
support  for  installation  of  an  International  Telecommunica- 
tions Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat)  satellite  station  in  Baku, 
providing  access  to  200  countries  through  Turkey.  Azerbaijan 
receives  Turkish  and  Iranian  television  programming  by  satel- 
lite, and  domestic  and  Russian  broadcasts  are  received  locally. 

Government  and  Politics 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  advent  of  Gorbachev's  policy  of  glas- 
nost  in  Moscow  encouraged  vocal  opposition  to  the  ruling  Azer- 
baijani Communist  Party  (ACP).  In  1989  the  central  opposition 
role  went  to  the  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  (APF),  which  was 
able  to  capture  the  presidency  in  the  1992  election.  But  failure 
to  resolve  the  disastrous  conflict  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  contin- 
ued to  destabilize  Azerbaijani  regimes  throughout  the  early 
1990s.  Growing  masses  of  disaffected  refugees  pressed  vocifer- 
ously for  military  victory  and  quickly  shifted  their  support  from 
one  leader  to  another  when  losses  occurred,  negating  efforts  to 
establish  solid  political  institutions  at  home  or  to  make  conces- 
sions that  might  provide  a  diplomatic  solution  to  the  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  conflict.  In  1993  the  APF  leadership  was  overthrown, 
and  former  communist  official  Heydar  Aliyev  was  installed  as 
president. 

The  Appearance  of  Opposition  Parties 

The  political  and  social  groups  that  sprang  up  in  Azerbaijan 
in  the  late  1980s  were  initially  termed  "informal  organizations" 
because  they  were  not  yet  recognized  as  legal  under  Soviet 
practice.  By  the  end  of  1988,  about  forty  such  organizations 
had  emerged,  many  of  them  focused  on  nationalism  or  anti- 
Armenian  issues.  The  ACP  was  increasingly  regarded  as  illegiti- 
mate by  the  population,  especially  after  the  Soviet  army  inter- 
vened to  protect  the  communist  regime  in  January  1990. 

The  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front 

Widespread  discontent  with  ACP  rule  led  to  the  formation 
of  the  APF  in  March  1989  by  intellectuals,  including  journalists 
and  researchers  belonging  to  the  Azerbaijani  Academy  of  Sci- 
ences. The  APF's  founding  congress  in  July  1989  elected  Abul- 
faz  Elchibey  party  chairman.  The  APF  characterized  itself  as  an 
umbrella  organization  composed  of  smaller  parties  and  groups 


129 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

and  like-minded  individuals.  A  central  plank  of  its  program  was 
rejection  of  self-determination  for  Nagorno-Karabakh  and 
defense  of  Azerbaijani  territorial  integrity.  In  its  initial  policy 
statements,  the  APF  advocated  decentralization  of  economic 
and  political  power  from  Moscow  to  Baku  rather  than  Azer- 
baijani independence  from  the  Soviet  Union.  Nevertheless,  the 
ACP  refused  to  recognize  the  APF. 

Within  months  of  its  founding,  the  APF  had  hardened  its 
position,  launching  a  series  of  industrial  strikes  and  rail  service 
disruptions  calculated  to  force  recognition  by  the  ACP.  By  the 
fall  of  1989,  the  APF  was  at  the  forefront  of  Azerbaijani  public 
opinion  on  the  issue  of  national  sovereignty  for  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh, and  the  ACP  recognized  the  APF  as  an  opposition  party. 
The  APF  used  its  influence  on  the  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet, 
the  republic's  parliament,  in  advocating  the  Law  on  Sover- 
eignty that  was  passed  in  October  1989.  In  January  1990,  APF- 
led  demonstrations  against  the  ACP  brought  Soviet  military 
intervention.  In  early  1992,  the  APF  played  an  important  role 
in  organizing  demonstrations  against  then-president  Ayaz 
Mutalibov. 

Party  Configuration  after  1991 

Two  small  parties,  the  Independent  Democratic  Party  (IDP) 
and  the  National  Independence  Party  (NIP),  were  formed  by 
former  members  of  the  APF  in  early  1992.  The  IDP  was  led  by 
Leyla  Yunosova,  a  prominent  intellectual  who  had  helped  form 
the  APF,  and  the  NIP  was  led  by  Etibar  Mamedov,  a  frequent 
critic  of  Elchibey's  rule  and  APF  domination  of  the  electoral 
process.  Azerbaijani  military  defeats  in  March  1993  led  Mame- 
dov to  call  for  Elchibey's  resignation.  Mamedov  initially 
approved  Elchibey's  ouster  by  Aliyev  and  the  subsequent  refer- 
endum on  his  rule. 

The  ACP  formally  disbanded  in  September  1991  during  a 
wave  of  popular  revulsion  against  the  role  it  played  in  support- 
ing the  Moscow  coup  attempted  against  Gorbachev  the  previ- 
ous month.  Nevertheless,  former  leaders  and  members  of  the 
ACP  continue  to  play  a  role  in  the  family-  and  patronage-based 
political  system,  and  Aliyev's  faction  regained  its  preeminent 
position.  The  ACP  was  revived  formally  in  December  1993  at  a 
"restorative"  congress,  after  which  it  reported  having  3,000 
members.  When  Aliyev  ran  for  president  in  1993,  he  combined 
former  communists  and  other  minor  groups  into  the  New 


130 


Azerbaijan 


Azerbaijan  Party,  which  became  the  governing  party  when 
Aliyev  was  elected. 

Under  election  legislation  passed  since  Aliyev's  accession,  a 
party  must  have  at  least  1,000  members  to  be  legally  registered 
by  the  Ministry  of  Justice.  Party  membership  is  forbidden  to 
government  officials  in  agencies  of  the  judiciary,  law  enforce- 
ment, security,  border  defense,  customs,  taxation,  finance,  and 
the  state-run  media.  The  president  and  members  of  the  clergy 
are  likewise  enjoined.  Parties  are  not  allowed  to  accept  foreign 
funding  or  to  establish  cells  in  government  agencies.  The  gov- 
ernment has  banned  parties  that  reject  Azerbaijan's  territorial 
integrity  or  inflame  racial,  national,  or  religious  enmity. 

Legislative  Politics 

Parliamentary  elections  were  held  in  September  1990, 
under  a  state  of  martial  law  (see  After  Communist  Rule,  this 
ch.).  The  opposition  coalition  led  by  the  APF  gained  only 
about  forty  seats  in  the  350-seat  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet. 
Communists  received  the  balance  of  seats  in  what  the  APF  and 
others  described  as  fraudulent  elections.  Most  would-be  inter- 
national observers  had  been  expelled  from  the  republic  by 
September.  Bowing  to  massive  popular  demonstrations  calling 
for  the  dissolution  of  the  communist-dominated  Supreme 
Soviet  and  to  concerted  pressure  by  the  APF  and  other  opposi- 
tionists, in  November  1991  the  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet 
voted  to  establish  a  fifty-deputy  National  Council,  or  Melli-Maj- 
lis.  This  council,  a  "mini-legislature"  that  met  in  continuous  ses- 
sion, was  divided  equally  between  former  communists  and  the 
opposition.  Because  of  the  Supreme  Soviet's  complicity  in  the 
effort  to  bring  Mutalibov  back  to  power  in  May  1992,  the  APF 
forced  the  Supreme  Soviet  to  convene,  elect  APF  official  Isa 
Gambarov  as  acting  president,  dissolve  itself,  and  cede  its 
power  to  the  Melli-Majlis  pending  new  parliamentary  elections. 

Having  repeatedly  postponed  the  elections,  the  Melli-Majlis 
remained  the  sole  legislative  authority  within  Azerbaijan  in 
early  1994.  The  Melli-Majlis  proved  generally  amenable  to 
Elchibey's  policies,  but  in  1993  the  worsening  military  situation 
in  Nagorno-Karabakh  brought  increasing  criticism.  In  his  first 
six  months  as  president,  Aliyev  gained  support  from  the  Melli- 
Majlis  for  most  of  his  proposals. 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1992 

The  presidential  election  of  June  1992  was  the  first  in  more 
than  seventy  years  not  held  under  communist  control.  Five  can- 


131 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

didates  were  on  the  ballot,  seeking  election  to  a  five-year  term. 
The  election  featured  the  unprecedented  use  of  television, 
posters,  and  other  media  by  multiple  candidates  to  communi- 
cate platforms  and  solicit  votes.  The  candidates  included  APF 
leader  Elchibey,  former  parliament  speaker  Yakub  Mamedov, 
Movement  for  Democratic  Reforms  leader  and  Minister  of  Jus- 
tice Ilias  Ismailov,  National  Democratic  Group  leader  Rank 
Abdullayev,  and  Union  of  Democratic  Intelligentsia  candidate 
Nizami  Suleymanov.  Two  other  candidates,  from  the  NIP  and 
the  APF,  withdrew  from  the  race  during  the  campaign.  To  reg- 
ister, each  candidate  had  to  collect  at  least  20,000  signatures 
and  present  them  to  the  Central  Electoral  Commission.  Aliyev 
was  unable  to  run  because  of  a  constitutional  provision  barring 
candidates  over  sixty-five  years  of  age.  The  government  agreed 
to  allow  international  observers  to  monitor  the  election.  Etibar 
Mamedov,  Elchibey's  main  rival  in  the  polls,  dropped  out  of  the 
race  a  few  days  before  the  election,  calling  for  rule  by  a  coali- 
tion government  and  the  postponement  of  balloting  until 
Azerbaijan's  state  of  war  with  Armenia  ended. 

Elchibey's  election  as  president  signaled  a  break  in  commu- 
nist party  dominance  of  Azerbaijani  politics.  He  received  59.4 
percent  of  more  than  3.3  million  votes  cast.  The  runner-up, 
Suleymanov,  made  a  surprise  showing  of  33  percent  of  the  vote 
by  promising  Azerbaijanis  instant  wealth  and  victory  in 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  No  other  candidate  garnered  as  much  as  5 
percent  of  the  vote. 

Elchibey  had  been  a  student  of  Arabic  philology,  a  transla- 
tor, and  a  college  instructor.  In  1975  the  KGB  imprisoned  him 
for  two  years  for  anti-Soviet  activities.  In  a  postelection  address 
to  the  nation,  he  announced  a  stabilization  phase  based  on  the 
transfer  of  power  to  his  democratic  faction.  When  that  phase 
ended  in  1993,  constitutional,  economic,  and  cultural  reforms 
would  be  implemented,  according  to  this  plan.  His  top  domes- 
tic policy  priorities — creation  of  a  national  army  and  a  national 
currency  backed  by  gold  reserves — were  seen  as  necessary  ele- 
ments for  national  sovereignty.  Despite  the  new  president's 
intentions,  the  war  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  dominated  politics, 
and  Elchibey  and  his  party  steadily  lost  influence  and  popular 
appeal  because  of  continual  military  losses,  a  worsening  econ- 
omy, political  stalemate,  and  government  corruption. 

The  Coup  of  June  1993 

In  June  1993,  an  unsuccessful  government  attempt  to  dis- 
arm mutinous  paramilitary  forces  precipitated  the  fall  of  Azer- 


132 


Abulfaz  Elchibey,  first  elected 
president  of  Azerbaijan,  1992 
Courtesy  S.  Rasimindir, 
Azerbaijan  International 


baijan's  fourth  government  since  independence  and  provided 
the  opportunity  for  Aliyev's  return  to  power.  The  erstwhile 
communist's  reappearance  was  part  of  a  trend  in  which  mem- 
bers of  the  former  elites  in  various  parts  of  the  old  Soviet 
sphere  reclaimed  authority.  Suret  Huseynov,  a  one-time  troop 
commander  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  dismissed  by  Elchibey,  led 
the  paramilitary  forces  that  triggered  the  president's  removal. 
In  support  of  one  of  Elchibey's  rivals,  Huseynov  had  amassed 
troops  and  weaponry  (largely  obtained  from  the  departing 
Russian  military)  in  his  home  territory.  He  then  easily  defeated 
army  forces  sent  to  defeat  him  and  precipitated  a  government 
crisis  by  marching  toward  Baku  with  several  thousand  troops. 

Huseynov's  exploits  thoroughly  discredited  the  Elchibey 
APF  government  in  the  minds  of  most  Azerbaijanis.  After  sev- 
eral top  government  officials  were  fired  or  resigned  and  after 
massed  demonstrators  demanded  a  change  in  government, 
Elchibey  endorsed  Aliyev's  election  as  chairman  of  the  Melli- 
Majlis.  After  a  brief  attempt  to  retain  the  presidency,  Elchibey 
fled  Baku  in  midjune  as  Huseynov's  forces  approached. 

Aliyev  announced  his  immediate  assumption  of  power  as 
acting  head  of  state,  and  within  a  week  a  bare  quorum  of  Melli- 
Majlis  legislators,  mostly  former  communist  deputies,  formally 
transferred  Elchibey's  powers  to  Aliyev  until  a  new  president 
could  be  elected.  Aliyev  then  replaced  Elchibey's  ministers  and 


133 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

other  officials  with  his  own  appointees.  Huseynov  received  the 
post  of  prime  minister.  The  legislature  also  granted  Huseynov 
control  over  the  "power"  ministries  of  defense,  internal  affairs, 
and  security. 

In  late  July  1993,  Aliyev  convinced  the  legislature  to  hold  a 
popular  vote  of  confidence  on  Elchibey's  moribund  presidency 
and  an  extension  of  a  state  of  emergency  that  had  existed  since 
April  1993  because  of  military  setbacks.  Although  the  APF  boy- 
cotted the  referendum,  more  than  90  percent  of  the  electorate 
reportedly  turned  out  to  cast  a  97  percent  vote  of  no-confi- 
dence in  Elchibey's  rule.  This  outcome  buttressed  Aliyev's  posi- 
tion and  opened  the  way  for  new  presidential  elections. 

In  early  September  1993,  the  Melli-Majlis  scheduled  new 
presidential  elections  for  October  3,  1993.  Removal  of  the  max- 
imum age  requirement  in  the  election  law  allowed  Aliyev  to 
run.  Aliyev's  position  was  strengthened  further  in  August  when 
paramilitary  forces  defeated  a  rebel  warlord  who  had  seized 
several  areas  of  southern  Azerbaijan  and  declared  an  autono- 
mous republic  of  Talish-Mugan. 

Early  in  his  tenure  as  acting  president,  Aliyev  stated  that  his 
political  goals  were  to  prevent  civil  war,  regain  territory  lost  to 
Armenia  during  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  and  ensure 
the  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan.  Aliyev  claimed  that  free- 
dom of  speech  and  human  rights  would  be  respected  in  Azer- 
baijan, although  he  also  called  for  continuing  a  state  of 
emergency  that  would  ban  political  rallies.  Huseynov  had 
stated  in  June  that  the  Azerbaijani  government  would  pursue  a 
negotiated  settlement  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  but,  if  that  failed, 
a  military  victory  was  the  goal.  He  added  that  the  government 
focus  would  be  on  improving  the  Azerbaijani  armed  forces,  sta- 
bilizing the  economy,  and  securing  food  for  the  population. 

Aliyev  and  the  Presidential  Election  of  October  1 993 

Aliyev  and  two  minor  party  candidates  ran  in  presidential 
elections  held  in  October  1993.  Voter  turnout  was  about  90 
percent,  of  which  almost  99  percent  voted  for  Aliyev.  Many 
international  observers  declared  the  elections  biased  because 
no  major  opposition  candidates  ran,  and  reporting  by  the  mass 
media  favored  Aliyev  and  failed  to  report  views  of  the  other 
candidates  or  of  the  APF.  Aliyev  was  sworn  in  as  Azerbaijan's 
president  on  October  10. 

Aliyev  was  born  in  1923  in  Nakhichevan  of  blue-collar  Azer- 
baijani parents.  He  crowned  a  career  in  Soviet  intelligence  and 


134 


Azerbaijan 


counterintelligence  services  by  reaching  the  post  of  chairman 
of  the  Azerbaijani  branch  of  the  KGB  in  1967.  Appointed  first 
secretary  of  the  ACP  Central  Committee  beginning  in  1969, 
Aliyev  purged  Azerbaijani  nationalists  and  directed  Russifica- 
tion  and  state  economic  development  activities  with  notable 
success  through  the  1970s.  His  support  of  Soviet  intervention 
in  Afghanistan  in  1979  brought  recognition  in  Moscow  and  the 
Order  of  Lenin  from  First  Secretary  Leonid  Brezhnev,  and  in 
1982  Aliyev  became  a  full  member  of  the  Politburo  of  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  the  Soviet  Union.  From  1982  to  1987,  he  was 
also  first  deputy  chairman  of  the  Soviet  Council  of  Ministers. 

In  1987  Gorbachev  ousted  Aliyev  from  the  Politburo  and 
relieved  him  as  party  leader  in  Azerbaijan.  Soon  after  returning 
to  Nakhichevan  in  1990,  Aliyev  was  elected  overwhelmingly  to 
the  Supreme  Soviet  of  the  Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic 
on  a  nationalist  platform.  The  next  year,  he  resigned  his  com- 
munist party  membership.  After  the  failed  August  1991  coup  in 
Moscow,  he  called  for  total  independence  for  Azerbaijan  and 
denounced  Mutalibov,  who  was  then  aspiring  to  the  presidency, 
for  supporting  the  coup.  In  late  1991,  Aliyev  built  a  power  base 
as  chairman  of  the  Nakhichevan  Supreme  Soviet,  from  which 
he  asserted  Nakhichevan's  near-total  independence  from  Baku. 

The  Constitution 

The  preparation  of  a  new  constitution  to  replace  the  1978 
document  (which  had  been  based  on  the  1977  Soviet  constitu- 
tion) began  in  1992,  but  adoption  has  been  repeatedly  delayed 
by  civil  and  political  turmoil.  Pending  the  adoption  of  a  new 
constitution,  the  fundamental  document  in  the  early  1990s  was 
the  October  18,  1991,  Act  of  Independence,  which  government 
authorities  have  described  as  the  basis  for  a  new  constitution. 
Meanwhile,  the  provisions  of  the  1978  constitution  are  valid  if 
they  do  not  violate  or  contradict  the  Act  of  Independence.  The 
act  declares  that  Azerbaijan  is  a  secular,  democratic,  and  uni- 
tary state,  with  equality  of  all  citizens  before  the  law.  Freedoms 
enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
other  international  human  rights  documents  are  upheld,  and 
the  right  to  form  political  parties  is  stipulated.  The  Act  of  Inde- 
pendence also  proclaims  Azerbaijan's  territorial  integrity  and 
its  sovereignty  over  all  its  territory.  In  October  1993,  the  Melli- 
Majlis  revised  the  existing  constitution  of  1978,  retaining  it  for 
the  time  being.  Finally  deleted  were  the  document's  many  ref- 


135 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

erences  to  "Soviet"  and  "communist"  institutions  and  philoso- 
phy. 

The  Court  System 

The  legal  system  of  Azerbaijan  has  changed  little  from  the 
system  of  the  Soviet  period.  The  national  Supreme  Court 
serves  as  a  court  of  appeals;  below  it  are  two  levels  of  judicial 
jurisdiction,  the  district  and  municipal  courts.  These  courts, 
supposedly  independent,  are  not  immune  to  political  manipu- 
lation, as  evidenced  by  Aliyev' s  ouster  of  the  chief  justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  in  July  1993  because  of  the  judge's  support  for 
Elchibey  and  the  APR 

Trials  are  generally  public,  and  defendants  have  the  right  to 
choose  their  own  attorney,  to  be  present  at  their  own  trials,  to 
confront  witnesses,  to  present  evidence,  and  to  appeal  the  ver- 
dict. In  cases  involving  national  security  or  sex  offenses,  a  judge 
may  decide  to  hold  a  closed  trial.  Despite  the  other  stipulated 
rights  of  the  defendant,  the  presumption  of  innocence  has  not 
been  incorporated  specifically  into  the  criminal  code.  Thus  the 
decision  of  the  state  prosecutor  to  bring  a  case  to  trial  has  con- 
siderable bearing  on  the  final  verdict. 

Human  Rights  and  the  Media 

Ethnic  conflict  between  Armenians  and  Azerbaijanis  has 
resulted  in  widespread  human  rights  violations  by  vigilante 
groups  and  local  authorities.  During  the  Elchibey  period,  the 
minister  of  internal  affairs  was  replaced  after  admitting  to 
numerous  human  rights  abuses.  Lezgians  in  Azerbaijan  have 
complained  of  human  rights  abuses  such  as  restrictions  on  edu- 
cational opportunities  in  their  native  language  (see  Smaller 
Ethnic  Minorities,  this  ch.).  In  the  early  1990s,  Amnesty  Inter- 
national and  Helsinki  Watch  cited  numerous  cases  of  arbitrary 
arrest  and  torture,  including  incidents  that  had  occurred  since 
Aliyev  assumed  power  in  1993.  These  organizations  and  several 
foreign  governments  protested  against  the  arrest  and  beating 
of  hundreds  of  APF  and  other  political  and  government  offi- 
cials and  raids  on  APF  offices,  all  after  the  change  of  govern- 
ment in  mid-1993.  At  one  point,  Isa  Kamber,  a  former  speaker 
of  the  Melli-Majlis,  was  seized  in  the  legislative  chamber  and 
held  for  two  months.  In  late  1993,  other  APF  officials  were 
reportedly  arrested  for  antigovernment  activity,  and  Aliyev 
asserted  that  APF  members  were  plotting  an  armed  uprising 
against  him. 


136 


Refugees  from  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  summer  1993 
Courtesy  OlegLitvin,  Azerbaijan  International 


Based  on  these  and  other  incidents,  in  late  1993  the  interna- 
tional human  rights  monitoring  group  Freedom  House  down- 
graded Azerbaijan  to  the  rank  of  world  states  adjudged  "not 
free."  Nevertheless,  Aliyev  has  proclaimed  Azerbaijani  adher- 
ence to  international  human  rights  standards,  and  in  Decem- 
ber 1993  he  signed  the  CSCE  Paris  Accords  on  democracy  and 
human  rights. 

News  media  censorship  and  other  constraints  on  human 
rights,  tightened  after  Aliyev  came  to  power,  were  eased  some- 
what in  September  1993  with  the  lifting  of  the  national  state  of 
emergency.  In  the  face  of  a  growing  political  crisis  in  late  1993 
caused  by  heavy  military  losses,  however,  many  in  the  Azer- 
baijani government  urged  Aliyev  to  declare  another  period  of 
emergency  rule.  Instead,  he  announced  several  measures  to 
"tighten  public  discipline,"  including  curfews  and  the  creation 


137 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

of  military  tribunals  to  judge  military  deserters  and  draft  evad- 
ers. 

In  late  November  1993,  the  legislature  refused  to  pass  an 
Aliyev-backed  press  bill  restricting  news  media  freedom  in  the 
name  of  ensuring  national  unity.  Nevertheless,  efforts  to 
restrict  the  media  continued,  and  passage  of  a  law  on  military 
censorship  in  December  1993  raised  concerns  among  journal- 
ists that  new  restrictions  would  be  imposed  on  a  broad  scale.  At 
the  end  of  1993,  the  only  newspaper  publishing  house,  Azer- 
baijan, was  under  government  control.  The  state  was  able  to 
curtail  the  supply  of  printing  materials  to  independent  publish- 
ers because  most  of  those  items  came  from  Russia.  Meanwhile, 
rising  prices  cut  newspaper  and  magazine  subscriptions  by  over 
50  percent  in  early  1994.  Television,  the  preferred  information 
source  for  most  Azerbaijanis,  was  controlled  by  the  govern- 
ment, which  operated  the  only  national  television  channel. 

Foreign  Relations 

Azerbaijan  carried  out  some  diplomatic  activities  during  its 
troubled  first  independence  period  between  1918  and  1920.  In 
September  1920,  newly  formed  Soviet  Azerbaijan  signed  a 
treaty  with  Russia  unifying  the  military  forces,  the  economy, 
and  the  foreign  trade  of  the  two  countries,  although  the  fiction 
of  Azerbaijani  autonomy  in  conducting  foreign  affairs  was 
maintained.  At  that  time,  Azerbaijan  established  diplomatic 
relations  with  six  countries,  sending  diplomatic  representatives 
to  Germany  and  Finland.  The  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  in 
Moscow  initially  used  Azerbaijani  diplomats  to  increase  Soviet 
influence  in  the  Middle  East  through  missions  in  Turkey,  Iran, 
and  Afghanistan,  but  most  transborder  contacts  by  Azerbaijanis 
had  been  eliminated  by  the  1930s.  In  the  post-World  War  II 
period,  the  Azerbaijani  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  could  issue 
limited  visas  for  travel  to  Iran  only.  Iran  also  maintained  a  con- 
sulate in  Baku. 

The  Foreign  Policy  Establishment 

After  regaining  its  independence  in  1991,  Azerbaijan  faced 
reorganization  of  its  minuscule  foreign  policy  establishment. 
This  process  involved  creating  or  upgrading  various  functional 
and  geographical  departments  within  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs,  recruiting  and  training  diplomats,  and  establishing  and 
staffing  embassies  abroad.  Because  of  the  complexity  of  these 
tasks,  few  embassies  were  established  during  the  first  months  of 


138 


Azerbaijan 


independence.  Full  diplomatic  relations,  including  mutual 
exchanges  of  missions,  were  first  established  with  Turkey,  the 
United  States,  and  Iran. 

Post-Soviet  Diplomacy 

Even  before  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Azer- 
baijani diplomatic  establishment  had  become  more  active,  pri- 
marily with  the  goal  of  countering  a  worldwide  Armenian 
information  campaign  on  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  issue.  Initia- 
tives in  this  policy  included  establishing  contacts  with  Azer- 
baijani emigres  living  in  the  United  States  and  reinforcing 
diplomatic  connections  with  Turkey,  Iran,  and  Israel. 

After  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union,  most  nations  moved 
quickly  to  recognize  Azerbaijan's  independence,  and  several 
established  full  diplomatic  relations  within  the  first  year.  The 
first  to  do  so  was  Turkey  in  January  1992.  During  his  presi- 
dency, Elchibey  stressed  close  relations  with  Turkey,  which  he 
saw  as  the  best  hope  for  arbitrating  an  end  to  the  Nagorno- 
Karabakh  conflict.  He  also  endorsed  unification  of  the  Azer- 
baijani populations  of  his  country  and  northern  Iran  and,  to 
that  end,  autonomy  for  the  Iranian  Azerbaijanis — a  stand  that 
alienated  the  Iranian  government. 

During  the  June  1993  coup,  Turkey  expressed  support  for 
Elchibey,  but  Aliyev  and  Turkish  authorities  subsequently 
expressed  willingness  to  continue  cordial  relations.  Relations 
did  cool  somewhat  in  the  second  half  of  1993  as  Aliyev  sought 
to  improve  relations  with  Iran  and  Russia,  which  had  flagged 
under  Elchibey. 

Meanwhile,  the  failure  of  arbitration  efforts  by  the  Minsk 
Group,  which  included  Russia,  Turkey,  and  the  United  States, 
had  frustrated  both  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  by  mid-1993.  The 
Minsk  Group  was  sponsored  by  the  CSCE,  which  in  the  early 
1990s  undertook  arbitration  in  several  Caucasus  conflicts 
under  the  organization's  broad  mandate  for  peacekeeping  in 
Europe  (see  Threats  of  Fragmentation,  ch.  3).  Aliyev's  alterna- 
tive strategies  included  requesting  personal  involvement  by 
Russia's  President  Boris  N.  Yeltsin,  who  began  six  months  of 
shuttle  diplomacy  among  the  capitals  involved,  and  initiation 
of  direct  talks  with  Armenian  leaders  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  a 
step  that  Elchibey  had  avoided.  Throughout  the  last  half  of 
1993,  the  new  contacts  ran  concurrently  with  formal  meetings 
convened  by  the  Minsk  Group  to  arrange  a  cease-fire. 


139 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

To  broaden  its  relations  with  nations  both  East  and  West, 
Azerbaijan  joined  a  number  of  international  and  regional  orga- 
nizations, including  the  UN,  the  CSCE,  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary),  the  European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development,  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Orga- 
nization. Azerbaijan  has  observer  status  in  the  General  Agree- 
ment on  Tariffs  and  Trade. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  primary  criterion  governing  Azer- 
baijan's relations  with  foreign  states  and  organizations  was  their 
stance  on  Azerbaijani  sovereignty  in  Nagorno-Karabakh.  Most 
governments  and  international  organizations  formally  support 
the  concept  of  territorial  integrity,  so  this  criterion  has  not 
restricted  most  of  Azerbaijan's  diplomatic  efforts.  Relations 
with  some  states  have  been  affected,  however.  For  example,  in 
1992  the  United  States  Congress  placed  restrictions  on  United 
States  aid  to  Azerbaijan  pending  the  lifting  of  the  Azerbaijani 
economic  blockade  on  Armenia  and  cessation  of  offensive  mil- 
itary actions  against  Armenia  and  Nagorno-Karabakh. 

In  messages  and  interviews  early  in  his  administration, 
Aliyev  asserted  that  his  new  government  would  not  alter  Azer- 
baijan's domestic  and  foreign  policies  and  that  his  country 
would  seek  good  relations  with  all  countries,  especially  its 
neighbors,  including  Russia.  He  criticized  the  uneven  relations 
that  existed  between  Azerbaijan  and  Russia  during  the  Elchi- 
bey  regime.  At  the  same  time,  Aliyev  stressed  that  he  viewed 
Azerbaijan  as  an  independent  state  that  should  never  again  be 
"someone's  vassal  or  colony."  In  the  summer  of  1993,  Aliyev 
issued  a  blanket  plea  to  the  United  States,  Turkey,  Russia,  the 
UN,  and  the  CSCE  to  work  more  resolutely  toward  settlement 
of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict.  Later  that  year,  he  sought 
repeal  of  the  Azerbaijan  clause  of  the  United  States  Freedom 
Support  Act,  which  had  been  amended  in  1992  to  prohibit 
United  States  government  assistance  to  Azerbaijan. 

Relations  with  Former  Soviet  Republics 

Although  Elchibey  stressed  Azerbaijani  independence  from 
Moscow,  he  signed  a  friendship  treaty  with  Russia  on  October 
12,  1992,  calling  for  mutual  assistance  in  the  case  of  aggression 
directed  at  either  party  and  pledging  mutual  protection  of  the 
rights  of  the  other's  resident  citizens.  Between  that  time  and 
the  coup  of  1993,  however,  Elchibey  accused  Russia  of  aiding 
Armenia  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  and  Russia  accused  Elchibey  of 


140 


Azerbaijan 


mistreating  the  Russian  minority  in  Azerbaijan.  Relations 
improved  with  the  return  to  power  of  Aliyev,  who  pledged  to 
uphold  and  strengthen  Azerbaijan's  ties  to  Russia.  Russia's  offi- 
cial position  on  Nagorno-Karabakh  was  strict  nonintervention 
barring  an  invitation  to  mediate  from  both  sides;  in  the  Russian 
view,  Azerbaijani  territory  seized  by  Armenia  was  to  be 
returned,  however.  In  early  1994,  seizure  of  property  from  Rus- 
sian citizens  in  Azerbaijan  (mostly  to  house  refugees  from 
Nagorno-Karabakh)  remained  a  source  of  irritation. 

Azerbaijan's  role  in  the  CIS  changed  drastically  in  the  early 
1990s.  After  Azerbaijan  signed  the  Alma-Ata  Declaration  as  a 
founding  member  of  the  CIS  in  December  1991,  the  legislature 
voted  in  October  1992  against  ratifying  this  membership.  How- 
ever, Azerbaijan  retained  observer  status,  and  its  representa- 
tives attended  some  CIS  functions.  Aliyev's  announcement  in 
September  1993  that  Azerbaijan  would  rejoin  the  CIS  brought 
a  heated  debate  in  the  legislature,  which  finally  approved  mem- 
bership. Aliyev  then  signed  the  CIS  charter,  its  Treaty  on  Col- 
lective Security,  and  an  agreement  on  economic  cooperation. 
Relations  with  former  Soviet  republics  in  Central  Asia  also  were 
uneven  after  independence.  Elchibey's  advocacy  of  the  over- 
throw of  President  Islam  Karimov  of  Uzbekistan  caused  partic- 
ular diplomatic  problems  with  that  country.  In  keeping  with 
the  policy  of  rapprochement  with  the  CIS,  Aliyev  began 
improving  ties  with  Central  Asian  leaders  in  the  second  half  of 
1993. 

National  Security 

From  the  very  beginning  of  its  existence  as  a  post-Soviet 
independent  republic,  Azerbaijan  faced  a  single  compelling 
national  security  issue:  its  enduring  struggle  with  Armenian 
forces  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  and  the  surrounding  territory. 
The  withdrawal  of  Russian  troops  and  materiel  left  an  Azer- 
baijani army  ill-equipped  and  poorly  disciplined.  Government 
efforts  to  build  a  new  national  defense  force  achieved  only  lim- 
ited results,  and  Armenian  forces  continued  to  advance  into 
Azerbaijani  territory  during  most  of  1993.  By  the  end  of  that 
year,  the  Aliyev  regime  had  bolstered  some  components  of  the 
Azerbaijani  military,  however. 

Forming  a  National  Defense  Force 

Even  before  the  formal  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union  at  the 
end  of  1991,  Azerbaijan  had  created  its  own  Ministry  of 


141 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Defense  and  a  Defense  Council  to  advise  the  president  on 
national  security  policy.  The  national  armed  forces  of  Azer- 
baijan were  formed  by  presidential  decree  in  October  1991. 
Subsequently,,  the  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet  declared  that 
the  Soviet  4th  Army,  which  included  most  of  the  Soviet  troops 
based  in  Azerbaijan,  would  be  placed  under  Azerbaijani  juris- 
diction. About  the  same  time,  the  Azerbaijani  Supreme  Soviet 
summoned  Azerbaijanis  serving  in  the  Soviet  armed  forces  out- 
side Azerbaijan  to  return  and  serve  in  their  homeland.  By  the 
end  of  1991,  the  Supreme  Soviet  had  enacted  independently 
several  statutes  governing  military  matters. 

Formed  in  mid-1992,  the  Azerbaijani  navy  has  about  3,000 
personnel  in  sixteen  units  from  the  former  Soviet  Caspian  Flo- 
tilla and  Border  Guards.  The  navy  has  five  minesweepers,  four 
landing  ships,  and  three  patrol  boats.  The  air  force  has  about 
2,000  troops,  forty-eight  combat  aircraft,  and  one  helicopter 
squadron. 

According  to  legislation  and  a  decree  both  promulgated  in 
1991,  the  president  serves  as  the  commander  in  chief  of  the 
Azerbaijani  armed  forces.  In  this  capacity,  the  president  over- 
sees defense  and  security  efforts  undertaken  by  the  prime  min- 
ister and  the  ministers  of  defense,  internal  affairs,  and  security. 
Between  1991  and  1993,  Azerbaijani  presidents  exercised  this 
power  by  ousting  several  defense  ministers  because  of  alleged 
incompetence.  Despite  propitious  legislation  and  decrees,  how- 
ever, efforts  to  field  a  national  army  faced  many  challenges. 

In  the  pre-Soviet  period,  many  Azerbaijanis  graduated  from 
Russian  military  academies,  and  Azerbaijani  regiments  of  the 
imperial  army  were  noted  for  their  fighting  skill.  In  the  Soviet 
military  system,  however,  Azerbaijanis  were  underrepresented 
in  the  top  ranks  of  the  armed  forces,  despite  the  presence  of 
the  Higher  All  Arms  Command  School  and  the  Caspian  High 
Naval  School  in  Azerbaijan.  Many  Azerbaijani  conscripts  were 
assigned  to  construction  battalions,  in  which  military  training 
was  minimal  and  the  troops  carried  out  noncombat  duties.  Pre- 
induction  military  training  in  most  Azerbaijani  secondary 
schools  was  also  reportedly  less  stringent  than  in  other  Soviet 
republics.  For  these  and  other  reasons,  the  Azerbaijanis  were 
not  prepared  for  long-term  warfare  in  Nagorno-Karabakh 
when  independence  arrived. 

Russian  Troop  Withdrawal 

The  continued  presence  of  Russian  forces  in  Azerbaijan 


142 


Azerbaijan 


became  problematic  when  Russian  troops  were  alleged  to  have 
assisted  Armenians  in  an  attack  that  killed  hundreds  of  civilians 
in  the  town  of  Khodzhaly,  in  southwestern  Azerbaijan,  in  Feb- 
ruary 1992.  In  the  face  of  widespread  demands  from  the  politi- 
cal opposition  in  Baku,  components  of  a  62,000-member 
Russian  force  began  to  withdraw  from  Azerbaijan  almost  imme- 
diately. Striking  a  contrast  to  the  protracted  withdrawal  of  Rus- 
sian troops  from  the  Baltic  states,  the  last  Russian  unit,  the 
104th  Airborne  Division,  withdrew  from  Azerbaijan  in  May 
1993,  about  a  year  ahead  of  the  schedule  that  the  two  countries 
had  set  in  1992. 

According  to  an  agreement  between  Russia  and  the  Trans- 
caucasian  states  calling  for  distribution  of  former  Soviet  mili- 
tary assets  among  the  participating  parties,  Azerbaijan  would 
receive  most  of  the  materiel  of  the  4th  Army  that  had  been  sta- 
tioned there,  together  with  part  of  the  Caspian  Flotilla.  The 
Russians  destroyed  or  removed  much  of  their  weaponry  upon 
withdrawing,  but  a  substantial  amount  was  stolen,  exchanged, 
or  handed  over  to  Azerbaijani  forces.  Some  Russians  answered 
appeals  from  Azerbaijani  military  leaders  to  serve  in  the  Azer- 
baijani armed  forces.  By  agreement  with  Russia,  many  former 
members  of  the  Soviet  Border  Guards  also  continued  their 
duties  under  Azerbaijani  jurisdiction,  with  Russian  assistance  in 
training  and  weapons  supplies.  In  January  1994,  Russia  and 
Azerbaijan  discussed  possible  use  of  Russian  forces  to  bolster 
Azerbaijan's  border  defenses. 

Force  Levels  and  Performance 

During  the  late  Soviet  period,  Azerbaijan  had  supplied  as 
many  as  60,000  conscripts  per  year  to  the  Soviet  armed  forces. 
In  August  1992,  Elchibey  announced  projected  personnel  lev- 
els for  the  Azerbaijani  armed  forces.  His  projection  called  for  a 
force  of  30,000  troops  by  1996,  divided  into  ground  units,  air 
force  and  air  defense  units,  and  a  navy.  Half  of  this  force  would 
consist  of  conscripts,  half  of  individuals  serving  under  contract. 
In  1994  estimated  total  troop  strength  had  reached  56,000,  of 
which  49,000  were  in  the  army,  3,000  in  the  navy,  2,000  in  the 
air  force,  and  2,000  in  the  air  defense  forces. 

According  to  training  plans,  officers  would  graduate  from  a 
revamped  Combined  Forces  Command  School  (formerly  the 
Baku  Higher  Arms  Command  School)  and  the  Caspian  High 
Naval  School.  The  new  Azerbaijani  armed  forces  would  rely 
almost  exclusively  on  transferred  or  purchased  Soviet  equip- 


143 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

ment,  although  Azerbaijani  machine  industries  have  the  capa- 
bility to  do  some  manufacturing  and  repairs.  According  to 
most  Azerbaijani  accounts,  defense  strategy  for  the  near  term  is 
focused  on  territorial  defense,  the  goals  of  which  are  defeating 
separatism  in  Nagorno-Karabakh  and  defending  Azerbaijan's 
borders  with  Armenia. 

Despite  Elchibey's  ambitious  plan,  in  1992  and  1993  Azer- 
baijan was  forced  to  seek  military  assistance  elsewhere.  Report- 
edly, a  group  of  American  mercenary  advisers  arrived  in 
Azerbaijan  in  1992,  and  some  Americans  were  believed  still  in 
the  country  in  early  1994.  Iranian,  Russian,  and  Turkish  offic- 
ers also  were  training  Azerbaijani  forces  in  the  early  1990s.  In 
early  1993,  Azerbaijan  was  able  to  field  no  more  than  a  few 
thousand  well-trained  troops  against  Armenia,  according  to 
most  accounts.  In  1993  continued  military  defeats  brought 
mass  desertions. 

To  meet  the  need  for  troops,  Azerbaijani  authorities 
encouraged  the  organization  and  fielding  of  up  to  thirty  para- 
military detachments,  which  in  late  1993  were  heavily  criticized 
by  Aliyev  for  their  lack  of  military  discipline.  Aliyev  reported  to 
the  legislature  that  these  detachments  were  abandoning  posi- 
tions and  weapons  to  the  Armenians  without  an  effort  to 
defend  them.  About  1,000  former  Afghan  freedom  fighters 
were  hired  in  1993,  and  volunteers  from  other  Muslim  coun- 
tries also  reportedly  enlisted.  In  late  1993,  the  government 
began  forced  recruitment  of  teenagers,  who  were  said  to  be 
used  in  human-wave  attacks  against  Armenian  positions. 

Supply  and  Budgeting 

Azerbaijan  reportedly  receives  weapons  of  uncertain  origin 
from  various  Islamic  nations  to  assist  in  the  struggle  to  retain 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  In  late  1993,  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs  made  an  official  report  to  the  CSCE  on  the  weapons  at 
Azerbaijan's  disposal,  fulfilling  the  requirement  of  the  1991 
Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  Treaty  (CFE  Treaty — see  Glos- 
sary). According  to  this  report,  during  1992  and  1993  Azer- 
baijan received  more  than  1,700  weapons — including  tanks, 
armored  personnel  carriers,  aircraft,  artillery  systems,  and  heli- 
copters— from  Russia  and  Ukraine,  far  above  the  CFE  Treaty 
limits. 

According  to  IMF  and  Azerbaijani  government  data, 
defense  expenditures  placed  a  severe  burden  on  the  national 
budget.  In  1992  some  US$125  million,  or  10.5  percent  of  the 


144 


Azerbaijan 


total  budget,  went  to  defense.  The  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict 
also  raised  expenses  for  internal  security  to  4  billion  rubles  in 

1992.  By  1994  military  expenditures  officially  reached  US$132 
million,  although  unofficial  estimates  were  much  higher. 

Aliyev's  National  Security  Reform 

In  November  1993,  Aliyev  created  the  Defense  Council  to 
provide  him  direct  oversight  of  military  affairs  and  to  curtail 
the  loss  of  considerable  Azerbaijani  territory  outside  Nagorno- 
Karabakh.  The  new  council,  which  reports  to  the  president, 
also  strengthened  Aliyev's  control  over  military  and  security 
affairs,  which  previously  had  been  directed  by  Prime  Minister 
Huseynov.  At  its  first  meeting,  the  Defense  Council  replaced 
the  deputy  defense  ministers  in  charge  of  the  Border  Guards 
and  the  general  staff,  and  the  council  criticized  the  Council  of 
Ministers  for  neglecting  urgent  defense  matters.  At  the  end  of 

1993,  Aliyev  continued  his  criticism  of  widespread  draft  eva- 
sion, appealing  particularly  to  the  10,000  Afghan  war  veterans 
in  Azerbaijan  to  reenlist.  Penalties  for  draft  evasion  and  deser- 
tion were  tightened.  At  the  same  time,  Aliyev  ordered  most 
officers  with  desk  assignments  to  be  deployed  to  the  front  lines. 

In  1993  Aliyev  attempted  to  establish  better  relations  with 
Russian  military  and  political  officials  by  rejoining  the  CIS  and 
signing  CIS  agreements  on  multilateral  peacekeeping  and 
mutual  security  policy.  He  answered  nationalist  critics  by  citing 
the  hope  that  Russia  might  coax  or  coerce  Armenia  and  the 
Karabakh  Armenians  into  reaching  a  suitable  settlement  of  the 
conflict.  Some  APF  members  and  others  denounced  these 
moves  as  jeopardizing  Azerbaijani  sovereignty  more  seriously 
than  did  the  existing  conflict. 

In  November  1993,  the  Melli-Majlis  approved  the  Law  on 
Defense,  ratifying  Aliyev's  proposed  reforms.  Paramilitary 
forces  were  officially  disbanded,  and  strenuous  efforts  were 
undertaken  to  increase  the  size  of  the  military.  In  early  1994, 
these  measures  appeared  to  help  Azerbaijani  forces  to  regain 
some  territory  that  had  been  lost  in  late  1993.  These  successes 
were  attributed  to  several  factors:  Aliyev's  success  in  wooing  vet- 
erans, including  officers,  back  into  military  service;  increased 
enlistments  and  a  lower  desertion  rate;  improved  morale;  a 
streamlined  command  system  with  Aliyev  at  its  head;  and  train- 
ing assistance  and  volunteers  from  abroad. 


145 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Crime  and  Crime  Prevention 

In  the  early  1990s,  crime  in  Azerbaijan  generally  intensified 
and  expanded  to  new  parts  of  society.  In  the  confusion  of  eco- 
nomic reform,  white-collar  criminals  absconded  with  invest- 
ment and  savings  funds  entrusted  to  new  and  unproven 
financial  institutions,  and  mass  refugee  movements  and  territo- 
rial occupation  promoted  the  activities  of  armed  criminal 
groups.  At  the  same  time,  law  enforcement  agencies  of  the 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  underwent  several  reorganizations 
that  hindered  effective  crime  prevention. 

Narcotics  Trade 

According  to  United  States  and  Russian  sources,  illegal  nar- 
cotics, including  opium,  hashish,  and  marijuana,  are  assuming 
a  large  role  in  Azerbaijani  exports,  although  official  economic 
indicators  do  not  reflect  such  commerce.  In  1993  the  United 
States  Department  of  State  reported  that  Azerbaijani  criminal 
networks  controlled  80  percent  of  drug  distribution  in  Moscow. 
Only  seven  kilograms  of  narcotics  were  confiscated  by  customs 
officials  at  border  points  in  1993,  however.  According  to  offi- 
cial Russian  sources,  in  1993  some  38.6  percent  of  illegal  drugs 
entering  Russia  from  former  Soviet  republics  came  from  Azer- 
baijan, and  82  percent  of  drug  arrests  in  Moscow  were  of  Azer- 
baijanis.  The  Russian  government  and  Armenian  authorities 
have  alleged  that  Azerbaijani  government  officials  are  involved 
in  drug  trafficking,  which  they  assert  helps  support  Azerbaijani 
military  operations  in  Nagorno-Karabakh.  In  1993  Azerbaijan 
joined  the  International  Association  Against  Narcotics  Abuse 
and  the  Narcobusiness. 

Wartime  conditions  and  expanded  trade  relations  also 
increased  other  types  of  smuggling  dramatically.  Widespread 
corruption  and  poor  organization  in  the  Azerbaijani  customs 
service  fostered  customs  violations;  in  one  two-month  period  in 
1994,  customs  officals  seized  6,300  Iranian  rials,  US$23,700, 
forty  truckloads  of  iron  pipe,  1,633  tons  of  metal,  620  grams  of 
mercury,  and  batches  of  military  optics  equipment. 

Crime  Prevention  Agencies 

Azerbaijan  established  a  separate  contingent  of  border 
troops  in  1992,  but  the  demands  of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh 
conflict  have  limited  staffing.  In  1993  liaison  was  established 
with  the  border  troop  commands  of  Russia,  Kazakhstan,  and 


146 


Azerbaijan 


Ukraine  for  cooperative  drug  control  and  exchange  of  meth- 
odology. A  small  officer  training  program  for  border  troops  has 
been  established  at  the  Combined  Forces  Command  School, 
with  the  intention  of  increasing  enrollment  once  the  issue  of 
Nagorno-Karabakh  is  resolved.  Long-term  plans  call  for  Euro- 
pean-style checkpoints  after  war  damage  is  repaired  and  official 
borders  are  recognized. 

In  1993  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  underwent  a  major 
reform,  a  significant  aspect  of  which  was  abolition  of  its  Admin- 
istration for  the  Struggle  Against  Terrorism  and  Banditry.  That 
agency,  nominally  the  spearhead  of  national  crime  prevention, 
had  proven  ineffective  because  of  unclear  jurisdiction  and 
poor  professional  performance.  Law  enforcement  cooperation 
with  other  CIS  countries  has  been  irregular.  In  restructuring  its 
law  enforcement  operations,  however,  the  government  has  con- 
sulted the  ministries  of  internal  affairs  of  Georgia,  Iran,  Kyr- 
gyzstan,  Latvia,  Russia,  and  Turkey.  In  1993  the  Ministry  of 
Internal  Affairs  sent  ninety  employees  to  study  law  enforce- 
ment at  education  institutions  in  Russia  and  Ukraine.  Also, 
contacts  were  strengthened  with  the  International  Criminal 
Police  Organization  (Interpol)  and  the  national  law  enforce- 
ment agencies  of  neighboring  countries. 

Despite  Aliyev's  reforms,  the  delicate  state  of  Azerbaijani 
national  security  continued  to  affect  all  other  aspects  of  the 
new  nation's  activities.  Normal  foreign  relations  and  trade  were 
blocked  by  the  ramifications  of  other  nations  dealing  with  one 
side  or  the  other  of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict.  But 
despite  the  clear  need  for  action,  extreme  nationalists  sharply 
limited  the  president's  range  of  options  by  holding  the  threat 
of  ouster  over  his  head  for  any  step  that  might  appear  to  be 
conciliatory  toward  the  traditional  enemy,  Armenia. 

*     *  * 

For  historical  background  on  Azerbaijan,  the  best  source  is 
Audrey  L.  Alstadt's  The  Azerbaijani  Turks:  Power  and  Identity  under 
Russian  Rule.  Earlier  sources  covering  specific  historical  topics 
include  J. D.  Henry's  Baku:  An  Eventful  History  (covering  the 
exploitation  of  oil  in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth 
centuries);  Russian  Azerbaijan,  1905-1920:  The  Shaping  of 
National  Identity  in  a  Muslim  Community  by  Tadeusz  Swieto- 
chowski  (including  an  introductory  chapter  covering  nine- 
teenth-century Russian  rule);  Ronald  G.  Suny's  The  Baku 
Commune,  1917-1918:  Class  and  Nationality  in  the  Russian  Revolu- 


147 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

tion;  and  The  Struggle  for  Transcaucasia,  1917-1921  by  Firuz 
Kazemzadeh.  Overviews  of  nationality  issues  include  Tamara 
Dragadze's  "Azerbaijanis"  in  The  Nationalities  Question  in  the 
Soviet  Union,  edited  by  Graham  Smith,  and  Frank  Huddle,  Jr.'s 
"Azerbaidzhan  and  the  Azerbaidzhanis"  in  Handbook  of  Major 
Soviet  Nationalities,  edited  by  Zev  Katz.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


148 


Chapter  3.  Georgia 


Religious  medallion  bearing  likeness  of  Saint  George 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Georgia. 
Short  Name:  Georgia. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Georgian (s). 
Capital:  Tbilisi. 

Date  of  Independence:  April  9,  1991. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  69,875  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Extremely  varied;  Greater  Caucasus  and  Lesser 
Caucasus  ranges  dominate  northern  and  eastern  regions. 
Many  rivers  flow  through  mountain  gorges  into  Black  Sea  and 
Caspian  Sea.  Narrow  lowland  area  along  Black  Sea.  Plains 
region  in  east. 

Climate:  Subtropical,  humid  along  coast.  Mountains  protect 
country  from  northern  influences  and  create  temperature 
zones  according  to  elevation.  Eastern  plains,  isolated  from  sea, 
have  continental  climate.  Year-round  snow  in  highest 
mountains. 

Society 

Population:  Mid-1994  estimate  5,681,025.  Annual  growth  rate 
0.81  percent  in  1994.  Density  seventy-nine  persons  per  square 
kilometer  in  1994. 


NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


151 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Ethnic  Groups:  In  early  1990s,  Georgians  70.1  percent, 
Armenians  8.1  percent,  Russians  6.3  percent,  Azerbaijanis  5.7 
percent,  Ossetians  3  percent,  and  Abkhaz  1.8  percent. 

Languages:  In  1993  official  language,  Georgian,  spoken  by  71 
percent  of  population.  Russian  spoken  by  9  percent,  followed 
by  Armenian  with  7  percent  and  Azerbaijani  with  6  percent. 

Religion:  In  1993  Georgian  Orthodox  65  percent,  Muslim  11 
percent,  Russian  Orthodox  10  percent,  and  Armenian 
Apostolic  8  percent. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Free  and  compulsory  through 
secondary  school.  Previous  Soviet  system  modified  to  eliminate 
ideology  and  strengthen  Georgian  language  and  history.  Some 
teaching  continues  in  minority  languages.  Nineteen 
institutions  of  higher  learning.  Literacy  estimated  at  100 
percent  by  1980s. 

Health:  Universal  free  health  care,  among  best  systems  in 
Soviet  period,  but  under  severe  stress  after  1991.  Reform 
program  blocked  by  civil  war  and  political  instability  in  early 
1990s.  Facilities  overtaxed  by  refugee  and  emergency  care 
requirements. 

Economy 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Estimated  at  US$4.7  billion  in 
1992,  or  approximately  US$850  per  person.  Economic  growth 
negative  in  early  1990s  because  of  destruction  of  infrastructure, 
unavailability  of  inputs,  and  failure  of  economic 
reorganization. 

Agriculture:  Very  productive  with  irrigation  of  western 
lowlands,  but  efficiency  hindered  by  post-Soviet  misallocation 
of  land  and  materials.  Tea  and  citrus  fruits  produced  in 
subtropical  areas;  also  grain,  sugar  beets,  fruits,  wine,  cattle, 
pigs,  and  sheep.  Over  half  of  cultivated  land  privatized  as  of 
early  1994. 

Industry  and  Mining:  Indu,ctry  heavily  dependent  on  inputs 
from  other  members  of  Com  nonwealth  of  Independent  States 
(CIS)  and  from  abroad.  Main  products  semifinished  metals, 
vehicles,  textiles,  and  chemicals.  Coal,  copper,  and  manganese 
principal  minerals. 

Energy:  Scant  domestic  fuel  reserves;  95  percent  imported 


152 


Georgia 


(mostly  oil  and  natural  gas)  in  1990.  Coal  output  dropped 
sharply  through  early  1990s.  Hydroelectric  potential  high,  but 
mainly  untapped.  Power  output  does  not  meet  domestic  needs. 

Exports:  Estimated  at  US$32.6  million  in  1992.  Major  exports 
citrus  fruits,  tea,  machinery,  ferrous  and  nonferrous  metals, 
and  textiles.  Main  markets  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bulgaria, 
Czechoslovakia,  Germany,  Poland,  Russia,  and  Turkey. 

Imports:  Estimated  at  US$43.8  million  in  1992.  Major  imports 
machinery  and  parts,  fuels,  transportation  equipment,  and 
textiles.  Main  suppliers  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia,  Poland, 
Russia,  and  Ukraine. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Estimated  as  US$23.7  million  deficit  in 
1992. 

Exchange  Rate:  Coupon  introduced  in  early  1993.  November 
1994  exchange  rate  1,625,000  coupons  per  US$1. 

Inflation:  Estimated  in  January  1993  at  50  percent  per  month. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Centralized  decision  making,  but  large 
underground  economy  limits  economic  control.  Extensive 
manipulation  of  tax  structure  in  1992-93  to  shrink  large 
budget  deficits.  Deficits  remained  high  as  revenue  estimates 
fell  short.  Enterprise  privatization  slow. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Highways:  In  1990  about  35,100  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
31,200  kilometers  hard-surface.  Four  main  highways  radiate 
from  Tbilisi,  roughly  in  the  cardinal  directions,  to  Russia, 
Azerbaijan,  Armenia,  and  Black  Sea.  Tbilisi  hub  of  Caucasus 
region's  highway  system. 

Railroads:  1,421  kilometers  of  track  in  1993.  Main  links  with 
Russia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Armenia.  Substantial  disruption  in 
1992-93  by  civil  war  and  fuel  shortages.  Tbilisi  hub  of  Caucasus 
region's  rail  transport. 

Civil  Aviation:  National  airline,  Orbis,  provides  direct  flights 
from  Tbilisi  to  some  West  European  cities.  Passenger  and  cargo 
service  limited  by  fuel  shortages  in  1991-94.  Nineteen  of 
twenty-six  airports  with  permanent-surface  runways  in  1993; 
longest  runway,  at  Novo  ale  kseyevka  near  Tbilisi,  about  2,500 


153 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
meters  long. 

Inland  Waterways:  None  navigable  by  commercial  shipping. 

Ports:  Batumi,  Poti,  and  Sukhumi  on  Black  Sea,  with 
international  shipping  connections  to  other  Black  Sea  ports 
and  Mediterranean  ports. 

Pipelines:  In  1992  approximately  370  kilometers  of  pipeline  for 
crude  oil,  300  kilometers  for  refined  products,  and  440 
kilometers  for  natural  gas.  Subject  to  disruption. 

Telecommunications:  About  672,000  telephone  lines  in  use  in 
1991,  or  twelve  per  100  persons;  long  waiting  list  for 
installation.  International  links  overland  to  CIS  countries  and 
Turkey;  low-capacity  satellite  earth  station  in  operation.  Three 
television  stations  and  numerous  radio  stations  broadcast  in 
Georgian  and  Russian. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Two  autonomous  republics,  Abkhazian 
Autonomous  Republic  and  Ajarian  Autonomous  Republic;  one 
autonomous  region,  South  Ossetian  Autonomous  Region. 
Strong  executive  (head  of  state,  who  is  also  chairman  of 
parliament)  with  extensive  emergency  powers  in  civil  war 
period  of  1992-93.  Cabinet  of  Ministers  selected  by  head  of 
state;  power  of  prime  minister  secondary  to  that  of  head  of 
state.  Unicameral  parliament  (Supreme  Soviet,  225  deputies) 
elects  head  of  state  and  has  legislative  power,  but  is  plagued  by 
disorder  and  fragmentation.  Judicial  branch,  weak  in 
communist  era,  under  reform  in  early  1990s. 

Politics:  Twenty-six  parties  represented  in  parliament  in  1993, 
of  which  most  seats  held  by  Peace  Bloc,  October  1 1  Bloc,  Unity 
Bloc,  Green  Party,  and  National  Democratic  Party.  Shifting 
coalitions  back  individual  programs.  Reform  slowed  by 
influence  of  former  communists,  who  are  gradually  dispersing. 
Union  of  Citizens  of  Georgia  formed  in  November  1993  to 
support  Eduard  Shevardnadze  government  programs. 
Shevardnadze  remained  most  popular  politician  in  late  1994. 

Foreign  Relations:  In  1992-94  broad  diplomatic  campaign  to 
establish  relations  with  CIS  nations,  other  neighbors,  and  West 
after  isolation  created  by  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia  government  in 
1991.  Balanced  position  maintained  between  warring  Armenia 


154 


Georgia 


and  Azerbaijan.  Joined  CIS  in  October  1993,  after  refusing  to 
do  so  at  first,  to  ensure  Russian  aid  in  ending  civil  war. 

International  Agreements  and  Memberships:  Member  of 
United  Nations,  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe,  International  Monetary  Fund,  European  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development,  and  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Defense  policy  made  by  Council  for  National 
Security  and  Defense,  chaired  by  head  of  state.  Main  forces — 
National  Guard  (15,000  troops)  and  paramilitary  Rescue  Corps 
(about  1,000  troops  formerly  known  as  the  Mkhedrioni) — not 
fully  under  government  control  in  1994.  Plans  call  for  national 
force  of  20,000  with  two-year  compulsory  service.  About  15,000 
Russian  troops  remained  in  mid-1993,  supplemented  in  fall  of 
1993  to  prevent  widening  of  civil  war  and  to  guard  borders.  In 
1993  Georgia  joined  CIS  mutual  security  agreements. 

Major  Military  Units:  Emphasis  in  early  1990s  on  establishing 
national  ground  forces,  with  small  air  force  using  training 
aircraft.  Most  equipment  obtained  from  Soviet  (later  Russian) 
occupation  forces — both  legally,  under  official  1992  quota 
agreement,  and  illegally. 

Military  Budget:  In  1992  estimated  at  US$23.6  million,  or  8.3 
percent  of  budgeted  expenditures. 

Internal  Security:  Since  1992  intelligence  operations  under 
Information  and  Intelligence  Service,  chaired  by  head  of  state. 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  combined  security  agencies  in 
1993.  Government  police  authority  uneven;  white-collar  and 
highway  crime  rampant  in  some  regions. 


155 


42 


RUSSIA 


.aspian 
Sea 

44^ 


Sukhumi  j 

ABKHAZIAN    \  \ 
AUTONOMOUS- 
REPUBLIC 


South  Ossetian 

Autonomous 

Region 


Kutaisi 


International  boundary 

Autonomous  republic  boundary 

Autonomous  region  boundary 

® 

National  capital 

<§) 

Autonomous  republic  capital 

o 

Autonomous  region  capital 

• 

Populated  place 

0 

25    50    75  Kilometers 

0         25         50        75  Miles 

Figure  11.  Georgia,  1994 


156 


GEORGIA'S  LOCATION  AT  a  major  commercial  crossroads 
and  among  several  powerful  neighbors  has  provided  both 
advantages  and  disadvantages  through  some  twenty-five  centu- 
ries of  history.  Georgia  comprises  regions  having  distinctive 
traits.  The  ethnic,  religious,  and  linguistic  characteristics  of  the 
country  as  a  unit  coalesced  to  a  greater  degree  than  before 
under  Russian  rule  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Then,  beneath  a 
veneer  of  centralized  economic  and  political  control  imposed 
during  seventy  years  of  Soviet  rule,  Georgian  cultural  and 
social  institutions  survived,  thanks  in  part  to  Georgia's  relative 
distance  from  Moscow.  As  the  republic  entered  the  post-Soviet 
period  in  the  1990s,  however,  the  prospects  of  establishing  true 
national  autonomy  based  on  a  common  heritage  remained 
unclear. 

Historical  Background 

Although  Saint  George  is  the  country's  patron  saint,  the 
name  Georgia  derives  from  the  Arabic  and  Persian  words,  Kurj 
and  Gurj,  for  the  country.  In  1991  Georgia — called  Sakartvelo  in 
Georgian  and  Gruziia  in  Russian — had  been  part  of  a  Russian 
or  Soviet  empire  almost  continuously  since  the  beginning  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  when  most  of  the  regions  that  consti- 
tute modern  Georgia  accepted  Russian  annexation  in  order  to 
gain  protection  from  Persia.  Prior  to  that  time,  some  combina- 
tion of  the  territories  that  make  up  modern  Georgia  had  been 
ruled  by  the  Bagratid  Dynasty  for  about  1,000  years,  including 
periods  of  foreign  domination  and  fragmentation. 

Early  History 

Archaeological  evidence  indicates  a  neolithic  culture  in  the 
area  of  modern  Georgia  as  early  as  the  fifth  millennium  B.C. 
Between  that  time  and  the  modern  era,  a  number  of  ethnic 
groups  invaded  or  migrated  into  the  region,  merging  with 
numerous  indigenous  tribes  to  form  the  ethnic  base  of  the 
modern  Georgian  people.  Throughout  history  the  territory 
comprising  the  Georgian  state  varied  considerably  in  size  as 
foreign  forces  occupied  some  regions  and  as  centrally  ruled 
federations  controlled  others. 


157 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Christianity  and  the  Georgian  Empire 

In  the  last  centuries  of  the  pre-Christian  era,  Georgia,  in  the 
form  of  the  kingdom  of  Kartli-Iberia,  was  strongly  influenced 
by  Greece  to  the  west  and  Persia  to  the  east.  After  the  Roman 
Empire  completed  its  conquest  of  the  Caucasus  region  in  66 
B.C.,  the  kingdom  was  a  Roman  client  state  and  ally  for  some 
400  years.  In  A.D.  330,  King  Marian  Ill's  acceptance  of  Chris- 
tianity ultimately  tied  Georgia  to  the  neighboring  Byzantine 
Empire,  which  exerted  a  strong  cultural  influence  for  several 
centuries.  Although  Arabs  captured  the  capital  city  of  Tbilisi  in 
A.D.  645,  Kartli-Iberia  retained  considerable  independence 
under  local  Arab  rulers.  In  A.D.  813,  the  Armenian  prince 
Ashot  I  became  the  first  of  the  Bagrationi  family  to  rule  Geor- 
gia. Ashot's  reign  began  a  period  of  nearly  1,000  years  during 
which  the  Bagratids,  as  the  house  was  known,  ruled  at  least  part 
of  what  is  now  Georgia. 

Western  and  eastern  Georgia  were  united  under  Bagrat  V  (r. 
1027-72).  In  the  next  century,  David  IV  (called  the  Builder,  r. 
1099-1125)  initiated  the  Georgian  golden  age  by  driving  the 
Turks  from  the  country  and  expanding  Georgian  cultural  and 
political  influence  southward  into  Armenia  and  eastward  to  the 
Caspian  Sea.  That  era  of  unparalleled  power  and  prestige  for 
the  Georgian  monarchy  concluded  with  the  great  literary  flow- 
ering of  Queen  Tamar's  reign  (1184-1212).  At  the  end  of  that 
period,  Georgia  was  well  known  in  the  Christian  West  (and 
relied  upon  as  an  ally  by  the  Crusaders).  Outside  the  national 
boundaries,  several  provinces  were  dependent  to  some  degree 
on  Georgian  power:  the  Trabzon  Empire  on  the  southern 
shore  of  the  Black  Sea,  regions  in  the  Caucasus  to  the  north 
and  east,  and  southern  Azerbaijan  (see  fig.  12). 

Occupation  and  Inclusion  in  the  Russian  Empire 

The  Mongol  invasion  in  1236  marked  the  beginning  of  a 
century  of  fragmentation  and  decline.  A  brief  resurgence  of 
Georgian  power  in  the  fourteenth  century  ended  when  the 
Turkic  conquerer  Timur  (Tamerlane)  destroyed  Tbilisi  in 
1386.  The  capture  of  Constantinople  by  the  Ottoman  Turks  in 
1453  began  three  centuries  of  domination  by  the  militant  Otto- 
man and  Persian  empires,  which  divided  Georgia  into  spheres 
of  influence  in  1553  and  subsequently  redistributed  Georgian 
territory  between  them  (see  fig.  13).  By  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, however,  the  Bagratid  line  again  had  achieved  substantial 
independence  under  nominal  Persian  rule.  In  this  period, 


158 


Georgia 


Georgia  was  threatened  more  by  rebellious  Georgian  and  Per- 
sian nobles  from  within  than  by  the  major  powers  surrounding 
the  country  In  1762  Herekle  II  was  able  to  unite  the  east  Geor- 
gian regions  of  Kartli  and  Kakhetia  under  his  independent  but 
tenuous  rule.  In  this  period  of  renewed  unity,  trade  increased 
and  feudal  institutions  lost  influence  in  Georgia. 

In  1773  Herekle  began  efforts  to  gain  Russian  protection 
from  the  Turks,  who  were  threatening  to  retake  his  kingdom. 
In  this  period,  Russian  troops  intermittently  occupied  parts  of 
Georgia,  making  the  country  a  pawn  in  the  explosive  Russian- 
Turkish  rivalry  of  the  last  three  decades  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. After  the  Persians  sacked  Tbilisi  in  1795,  Herekle  again 
sought  the  protection  of  Orthodox  Russia. 

Within  the  Russian  Empire 

Annexation  by  the  Russian  Empire  began  a  new  stage  of 
Georgian  history,  in  which  security  was  achieved  by  linking 
Georgia  more  closely  than  ever  with  Russia.  This  subordinate 
relationship  would  last  nearly  two  centuries. 

Russian  Influence  in  the  Nineteenth  Century 

Because  of  its  weak  position,  Georgia  could  not  name  the 
terms  of  protection  by  the  Russian  Empire.  In  1801  Tsar  Alex- 
ander I  summarily  abolished  the  kingdom  of  Kartli-Kakhetia, 
and  the  heir  to  the  Bagratid  throne  was  forced  to  abdicate.  In 
the  next  decade,  the  Russian  Empire  gradually  annexed  Geor- 
gia's entire  territory.  Eastern  Georgia  (the  regions  of  Kartli  and 
Kakhetia)  became  part  of  the  Russian  Empire  in  1801,  and 
western  Georgia  (Imeretia)  was  incorporated  in  1804.  After 
annexation  Russian  governors  tried  to  rearrange  Georgian  feu- 
dal society  and  government  according  to  the  Russian  model. 
Russian  education  and  ranks  of  nobility  were  introduced,  and 
the  Georgian  Orthodox  Church  lost  its  autocephalous  status  in 
1811.  In  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Russifica- 
tion  intensified,  as  did  Georgian  rebellions  against  the  process. 

Social  and  Intellectual  Developments 

By  1850  the  social  and  political  position  of  the  Georgian 
nobility,  for  centuries  the  foundation  of  Georgian  society,  had 
deteriorated.  A  new  worker  class  began  to  exert  social  pressure 
in  Georgian  population  centers.  Because  the  nobility  still  rep- 
resented Georgian  national  interests,  its  decline  meant  that  the 
Armenian  merchant  class,  which  had  been  a  constructive  part 


159 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Kalistrat  Salia,  History  of  the  Georgian  Nation,  Paris, 
1983,  182-83. 

Figure  12.  The  Georgian  Empire  of  Queen  Tamar,  ca.  1200 

of  urban  life  since  the  Middle  Ages,  gained  greater  economic 
power  within  Georgia.  At  the  same  time,  Russian  political  hege- 
mony over  the  Caucasus  now  went  unopposed  by  Georgians.  In 
response  to  these  conditions,  Georgian  intellectuals  borrowed 
the  thinking  of  Russian  and  West  European  political  philoso- 
phers, forging  a  variety  of  theoretical  salvations  for  Georgian 
nationalism  that  had  little  relation  to  the  changing  economic 
conditions  of  the  Georgian  people. 

By  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Russia,  fearing 
increased  Armenian  power  in  Georgia,  asserted  direct  control 
over  Armenian  religious  and  political  institutions.  In  the  first 
decade  of  the  twentieth  century,  a  full-fledged  Georgian 
national  liberation  movement  was  established  by  Marxist  fol- 
lowers of  the  Russian  Social  Democrat  Party.  Marxist  precepts 
fell  on  fertile  soil  in  Georgia;  by  1900  migration  from  rural 
areas  and  the  growth  of  manufacturing  had  generated  a  fairly 
cohesive  working  class  led  by  a  new  generation  of  Georgian 
intellectuals,  who  called  for  elimination  of  both  the  Armenian 
bourgeoisie  and  the  Russian  government  bureaucracy.  The 
main  foe,  however,  was  tsarist  autocracy. 


160 


Georgia 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Kalistrat  Salia,  History  of  the  Georgian  Nation,  Paris, 
1983,  253. 

Figure  13.  Georgia  in  the  Sixteenth  Century 

The  Spirit  of  Revolution 

In  1905  a  large-scale  peasant  revolt  in  western  Georgia  and 
general  strikes  in  industrial  centers  throughout  the  Caucasus 
caused  Russia  to  declare  martial  law.  As  elsewhere  in  the  Rus- 
sian Empire,  the  political  reforms  of  1905  temporarily  eased 
tensions  between  the  Georgian  population  and  the  Russian 
government.  For  the  next  decade,  the  Georgian  revolutionar- 
ies of  the  Social  Democrat  Party  were  split  between  the  gradual- 
ist Menshevik  and  the  radical  Bolshevik  factions,  and  the 
incidence  of  strikes  and  mass  demonstrations  declined  sharply 
between  1906  and  1917.  Mensheviks,  however,  occupied  all  the 
Georgian  seats  in  the  first  two  seatings  of  the  Duma,  the  Rus- 
sian parliamentary  institution  established  in  1905.  In  this 
period,  Joseph  V.  Stalin  (a  Georgian  who  changed  his  name 
from  Ioseb  Jugashvili  around  1910)  became  a  leader  of  Bolshe- 


161 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

vik  conspiracies  against  the  Russian  government  in  Georgia 
and  the  chief  foe  of  Menshevik  leader  Noe  Zhordania. 

World  War  I  and  Independence 

Because  Turkey  was  a  member  of  the  Central  Powers  in 
World  War  I,  the  Caucasus  region  became  a  major  battle- 
ground in  that  conflict.  In  1915  and  1916,  Russian  forces 
pushed  southwest  into  eastern  Turkey  from  bases  in  the  Cauca- 
sus, with  limited  success.  As  part  of  the  Russian  Empire,  Geor- 
gia officially  backed  the  Allies,  although  it  stood  to  gain  little 
from  victory  by  either  side.  By  1916  economic  conditions  and 
mass  immigration  of  war  refugees  had  raised  social  discontent 
throughout  the  Caucasus,  and  the  Russian  Empire's  decade-old 
experiment  with  constitutional  monarchy  was  judged  a  failure. 

The  revolution  of  1917  in  Russia  intensified  the  struggle 
between  the  Mensheviks  and  the  Bolsheviks  in  Georgia.  In  May 
1918,  Georgia  declared  its  independence  under  the  protection 
of  Germany.  Georgia  turned  toward  Germany  to  prevent 
opportunistic  invasion  by  the  Turks;  the  move  also  resulted 
from  Georgians'  perception  of  Germany  as  the  center  of  Euro- 
pean culture.  The  major  European  powers  recognized  Geor- 
gia's independence,  and  in  May  1920,  Russian  leader  Vladimir 
I.  Lenin  officially  followed  suit. 

To  gain  peasant  support,  Zhordania's  moderate  new  Men- 
shevik-dominated  government  redistributed  much  of  Georgia's 
remaining  aristocratic  landholdings  to  the  peasants,  eliminat- 
ing the  long-time  privileged  status  of  the  nobility.  The  few  years 
of  postwar  independence  were  economically  disastrous,  how- 
ever, because  Georgia  did  not  establish  commercial  relations 
with  the  West,  Russia,  or  its  smaller  neighbors. 

Within  the  Soviet  Union 

In  seven  decades  as  part  of  the  Soviet  Union,  Georgia  main- 
tained some  cultural  independence,  and  Georgian  nationalism 
remained  a  significant — though  at  times  muted — issue  in  rela- 
tions with  the  Russians.  In  economic  and  political  terms,  how- 
ever, Georgia  was  thoroughly  integrated  into  the  Soviet  system. 

The  Interwar  Years 

After  independence  was  declared  in  1918,  the  Georgian  Bol- 
sheviks campaigned  to  undermine  the  Menshevik  leader  Zhor- 
dania, and  in  1921  the  Red  Army  invaded  Georgia  and  forced 
him  to  flee.  From  1922  until  1936,  Georgia  was  part  of  a  united 


162 


Georgia 


Transcaucasian  Soviet  Federated  Socialist  Republic  (TSFSR) 
within  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1936  the  federated  republic  was 
split  up  into  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia,  which 
remained  separate  Soviet  socialist  republics  of  the  Soviet 
Union  until  the  end  of  1991. 

Although  Stalin  and  Lavrenti  Beria,  his  chief  of  secret  police 
from  1938  to  1953,  were  both  Georgians,  Stalin's  regime 
oppressed  Georgians  as  severely  as  it  oppressed  citizens  of 
other  Soviet  republics.  The  most  notable  manifestations  of  this 
policy  were  the  execution  of  5,000  nobles  in  1924  as  punish- 
ment for  a  Menshevik  revolt  and  the  purge  of  Georgian  intel- 
lectuals and  artists  in  1936-37.  Another  Georgian  Bolshevik, 
Sergo  Ordzhonikidze,  played  an  important  role  in  the  early 
1920s  in  bringing  Georgia  and  other  Soviet  republics  into  a 
centralized,  Moscow-directed  state.  Ordzhonikidze  later 
became  Stalin's  top  economic  official. 

World  War  II  and  the  Late  Stalin  Period 

Georgia  was  not  invaded  in  World  War  II.  It  contributed 
more  than  500,000  fighters  to  the  Red  Army,  however,  and  was 
a  vital  source  of  textiles  and  munitions.  Stalin's  successful 
appeal  for  patriotic  unity  eclipsed  Georgian  nationalism  dur- 
ing the  war  and  diffused  it  in  the  years  following.  Restoration 
of  autonomy  to  the  Georgian  Orthodox  Church  in  1943  facili- 
tated this  process. 

The  last  two  decades  of  Stalin's  rule  saw  rapid,  forced  urban- 
ization and  industrialization,  as  well  as  drastic  reductions  in 
illiteracy  and  the  preferential  treatment  of  Georgians  at  the 
expense  of  ethnic  minorities  in  the  republic.  The  full  Soviet 
centralized  economic  planning  structure  was  in  place  in  Geor- 
gia by  1934.  Between  1940  and  1958,  the  republic's  industrial 
output  grew  by  240  percent.  In  that  time,  the  influence  of  tradi- 
tional village  life  decreased  significantly  for  a  large  part  of  the 
Georgian  population. 

Post-Stalin  Politics 

Upon  Stalin's  death  in  1953,  Georgian  nationalism  revived 
and  resumed  its  struggle  against  dictates  from  the  central  gov- 
ernment in  Moscow.  In  the  1950s,  reforms  under  Soviet  leader 
Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  included  the  shifting  of  economic 
authority  from  Moscow  to  republic-level  officials,  but  the  Rus- 
sian Khrushchev's  repudiation  of  Stalin  set  off  a  backlash  in 
Georgia.  In  1956  hundreds  of  Georgians  were  killed  when  they 


163 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

demonstrated  against  Khrushchev's  policy  of  de-Stalinization. 
Long  afterward  many  Stalin  monuments  and  place-names — as 
well  as  the  museum  constructed  at  Stalin's  birthplace  in  the 
town  of  Gori,  northwest  of  Tbilisi — were  maintained.  Only  with 
Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev's  policy  of  glasnost  (see  Glossary)  in  the 
late  1980s  did  criticism  of  Stalin  become  acceptable  and  a  full 
account  of  Stalin's  crimes  against  his  fellow  Georgians  become 
known  in  Georgia. 

Between  1955  and  1972,  Georgian  communists  used  decen- 
tralization to  become  entrenched  in  political  posts  and  to 
reduce  further  the  influence  of  other  ethnic  groups  in  Geor- 
gia. In  addition,  enterprising  Georgians  created  factories 
whose  entire  output  was  "off  the  books"  (see  The  Under- 
ground Economy,  this  ch.).  In  1972  the  long-standing  corrup- 
tion and  economic  inefficiency  of  Georgia's  leaders  led 
Moscow  to  sponsor  Eduard  Shevardnadze  as  first  secretary  of 
the  Georgian  Communist  Party.  Shevardnadze  had  risen 
through  the  ranks  of  the  Communist  Youth  League  (Komso- 
mol) to  become  a  party  first  secretary  at  the  district  level  in 
1961.  From  1964  until  1972,  Shevardnadze  oversaw  the  Geor- 
gian police  from  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  where  he 
made  a  reputation  as  a  competent  and  incorruptible  official. 

The  First  Shevardnadze  Period 

As  party  first  secretary,  Shevardnadze  used  purges  to  attack 
the  corruption  and  chauvinism  for  which  Georgia's  elite  had 
become  infamous  even  among  the  corrupt  and  chauvinistic 
republics  of  the  Soviet  Union.  Meanwhile,  a  small  group  of  dis- 
sident nationalists  coalesced  around  academician  Zviad  Gamsa- 
khurdia,  who  stressed  the  threat  that  Russification  presented  to 
the  Georgian  national  identity.  This  theme  would  remain  at  the 
center  of  Georgian-Russian  relations  into  the  new  era  of  Geor- 
gian independence  in  the  1990s.  Soviet  power  and  Georgian 
nationalism  clashed  in  1978  when  Moscow  ordered  revision  of 
the  constitutional  status  of  the  Georgian  language  as  Georgia's 
official  state  language.  Bowing  to  pressure  from  street  demon- 
strations, Moscow  approved  Shevardnadze's  reinstatement  of 
the  constitutional  guarantee  the  same  year. 

In  the  1970s  and  early  1980s,  Shevardnadze  successfully 
walked  a  narrow  line  between  the  demands  of  Moscow  and  the 
Georgians'  growing  desire  for  national  autonomy.  He  main- 
tained political  and  economic  control  while  listening  carefully 
to  popular  demands  and  making  strategic  concessions.  She- 


164 


Georgia 


vardnadze  dealt  with  nationalism  and  dissent  by  explaining  his 
policies  to  hostile  audiences  and  seeking  compromise  solu- 
tions. The  most  serious  ethnic  dispute  of  Shevardnadze's  ten- 
ure arose  in  1978,  when  leaders  of  the  Abkhazian  Autonomous 
Republic  threatened  to  secede  from  Georgia,  alleging  unfair 
cultural,  linguistic,  political,  and  economic  restrictions 
imposed  by  Tbilisi.  Shevardnadze  took  a  series  of  steps  to  dif- 
fuse the  crisis,  including  an  affirmative  action  program  that 
increased  the  role  of  Abkhazian  elites  in  running  "their" 
region,  despite  the  minority  status  of  their  group  in  Abkhazia. 

Shevardnadze  initiated  experiments  that  foreshadowed  the 
economic  and  political  reforms  that  Gorbachev  later  intro- 
duced into  the  central  Soviet  system.  The  Abasha  economic 
experiment  in  agriculture  created  new  incentives  for  farmers 
similar  to  those  used  in  the  Hungarian  agricultural  reform  of 
the  time.  A  reorganization  in  the  seaport  of  Poti  expanded  the 
role  of  local  authorities  at  the  expense  of  republic  and 
all-union  ministries.  By  1980  Shevardnadze  had  raised  Geor- 
gia's industrial  and  agricultural  production  significantly  and 
had  dismissed  about  300  members  of  the  party's  corrupt  hier- 
archy. When  Shevardnadze  left  office  in  1985,  considerable 
government  corruption  remained,  however,  and  Georgia's  offi- 
cial economy  was  still  weakened  by  an  extensive  illegal  "second 
economy."  But  his  reputation  for  honesty  and  political  courage 
earned  Shevardnadze  great  popularity  among  Georgians,  the 
awarding  of  the  Order  of  Lenin  by  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Soviet  Union  (CPSU — see  Glossary)  in  1978,  and  appointment 
as  minister  of  foreign  affairs  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  1985. 

Patiashvili 

Jumber  Patiashvili,  a  nondescript  party  loyalist,  succeeded 
Shevardnadze  as  head  of  the  Georgian  Communist  Party. 
Under  Patiashvili,  most  of  Shevardnadze's  initiatives  atrophied, 
and  no  new  policy  innovations  were  undertaken.  Patiashvili 
removed  some  of  Shevardnadze's  key  appointees,  although  he 
could  not  dismiss  his  predecessor's  many  middle-echelon 
appointees  without  seriously  damaging  the  party  apparatus. 

In  dealing  with  dissent,  Patiashvili,  who  distrusted  radical 
and  unofficial  groups,  returned  to  the  usual  confrontational 
strategy  of  Soviet  regional  party  officials.  The  party  head  met 
major  resistance  when  he  backed  a  plan  for  a  new  Transcauca- 
sian  railroad  that  would  cut  a  swath  parallel  to  the  Georgian 
Military  Highway  in  a  historic,  scenic,  and  environmentally  sig- 


165 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

nificant  region.  In  a  televised  speech,  Patiashvili  called  oppo- 
nents of  the  project  "enemies  of  the  people" — a  phrase  used  in 
the  1930s  to  justify  liquidation  of  Stalin's  real  and  imagined 
opponents.  By  isolating  opposition  groups,  Patiashvili  forced 
reformist  leaders  into  underground  organizations  and  con- 
frontational behavior. 

After  Communist  Rule 

In  Georgia,  Gorbachev's  simultaneous  policies  of  glasnost 
and  continued  control  energized  the  forces  of  nationalism, 
which  pushed  the  republic  out  of  the  central  state  before  the 
Soviet  Union  fell  apart.  The  first  years  of  independence  were 
marked  by  struggle  among  Georgians  for  control  of  the  gov- 
ernment and  by  conflict  with  ethnic  minorities  seeking  to 
escape  the  control  of  Tbilisi. 

Nationalism  Rises 

In  April  1989,  Soviet  troops  broke  up  a  peaceful  demonstra- 
tion at  the  government  building  in  Tbilisi.  Under  unclear  cir- 
cumstances, twenty  Georgians,  mostly  women  and  children, 
were  killed.  The  military  authorities  and  the  official  media 
blamed  the  demonstrators,  and  opposition  leaders  were 
arrested.  The  Georgian  public  was  outraged.  What  was  after- 
ward referred  to  as  the  April  Tragedy  fundamentally  radical- 
ized political  life  in  the  republic.  Shevardnadze  was  sent  to 
Georgia  to  restore  calm.  He  arranged  for  the  replacement  of 
Patiashvili  by  Givi  Gumbaridze,  head  of  the  Georgian  branch  of 
the  Committee  for  State  Security  (Komitet  gosudarstvennoi 
bezopasnosti — KGB) . 

In  an  atmosphere  of  renewed  nationalist  fervor,  public  opin- 
ion surveys  indicated  that  the  vast  majority  of  the  population 
was  committed  to  immediate  independence  from  Moscow. 
Although  the  communist  party  was  discredited,  it  continued  to 
control  the  formal  instruments  of  power.  In  the  months  follow- 
ing the  April  Tragedy,  the  opposition  used  strikes  and  other 
forms  of  pressure  to  undermine  communist  power  and  set  the 
stage  for  de  facto  separation  from  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  Rise  of  Gamsakhurdia 

Partly  as  a  result  of  the  conspiratorial  nature  of  antigovern- 
ment  activity  prior  to  1989,  opposition  groups  tended  to  be 
small,  tightly  knit  units  organized  around  prominent  individu- 
als. The  personal  ambitions  of  opposition  leaders  prevented 


166 


Old  salt  baths  and  Narikala 
Fortress,  Tbilisi 
Courtesy  Michael  W.  Serafin 


Old  Tbilisi  seen  from 
Mtkvari  (Kara)  River 
Courtesy  Monica 
O'Keefe,  United  States 

Information  Agency 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

the  emergence  of  a  united  front,  but  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia,  the 
most  widely  honored  and  recognized  of  the  nationalist  dissi- 
dents, moved  naturally  to  a  position  of  leadership.  The  son  of 
Georgia's  foremost  contemporary  novelist,  Gamsakhurdia  had 
gained  many  enemies  during  the  communist  years  in  acrimoni- 
ous disputes  and  irreconcilable  factional  splits. 

Opposition  pressure  resulted  in  a  multiparty  election  in 
October  1990.  Despite  guarantees  written  into  the  new  law  on 
elections,  many  prominent  opposition  parties  boycotted  the 
vote,  arguing  that  their  groups  could  not  compete  fairly  and 
that  their  participation  under  existing  conditions  would  only 
legitimize  continuation  of  Georgia's  "colonial  status"  within  the 
Soviet  system. 

As  an  alternative,  the  opposition  parties  had  held  their  own 
election,  without  government  approval,  in  September  1990. 
Although  the  minimum  turnout  for  a  valid  election  was  not 
achieved,  the  new  "legislative"  body,  called  the  Georgian 
National  Congress,  met  and  became  a  center  of  opposition  to 
the  government  chosen  in  the  official  October  election.  In  the 
officially  sanctioned  voting,  Gamsakhurdia's  Round  Table/ 
Free  Georgia  coalition  won  a  solid  majority  in  the  Supreme 
Soviet,  Georgia's  official  parliamentary  body. 

Arguably  the  most  virulently  anticommunist  politician  ever 
elected  in  a  Soviet  republic,  Gamsakhurdia  was  intolerant  of  all 
political  opposition.  He  often  accused  his  opposition  of  trea- 
son or  involvement  with  the  KGB.  The  quality  of  political 
debate  in  Georgia  was  lowered  by  the  exchange  of  such  charges 
between  Gamsakhurdia  and  opposition  leaders  such  as  Gia 
Chanturia  of  the  National  Democratic  Party. 

After  his  election,  Gamsakhurdia's  greatest  concern  was  the 
armed  opposition.  Both  Gamsakhurdia's  Round  Table/Free 
Georgia  coalition  and  some  opposition  factions  in  the  Geor- 
gian National  Congress  had  informal  military  units,  which  the 
previous,  communist  Supreme  Soviet  had  legalized  under  pres- 
sure from  informal  groups.  The  most  formidable  of  these 
groups  were  the  Mkhedrioni  (horsemen),  said  to  number 
5,000  men,  and  the  so-called  National  Guard.  The  new  parlia- 
ment, dominated  by  Gamsakhurdia,  outlawed  such  groups  and 
ordered  them  to  surrender  their  weapons,  but  the  order  had 
no  effect.  After  the  elections,  independent  military  groups 
raided  local  police  stations  and  Soviet  military  installations, 
sometimes  adding  formidable  weaponry  to  their  arsenals.  In 
February  1991,  a  Soviet  army  counterattack  against  Mkhedri- 


168 


Georgia 


oni  headquarters  had  led  to  the  imprisonment  of  the  Mkhedri- 
oni  leader. 

Gamsakhurdia  moved  quickly  to  assert  Georgia's  indepen- 
dence from  Moscow.  He  took  steps  to  bring  the  Georgian  KGB 
and  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  (both  overseen  until  then  from 
Moscow)  under  his  control.  Gamsakhurdia  refused  to  attend 
meetings  called  by  Gorbachev  to  preserve  a  working  union 
among  the  rapidly  separating  Soviet  republics.  Gamsakhurdia's 
communications  with  the  Soviet  leader  usually  took  the  form  of 
angry  telegrams  and  telephone  calls.  In  May  1991,  Gamsakhur- 
dia ended  the  collection  in  Georgia  of  Gorbachev's  national 
sales  tax  on  the  grounds  that  it  damaged  the  Georgian  econ- 
omy. Soon  Georgia  ceased  all  payments  to  Moscow,  and  the 
Soviet  government  took  steps  to  isolate  the  republic  economi- 
cally. 

Rather  than  consent  to  participate  in  Gorbachev's  March 
1991  referendum  on  preserving  a  federation  of  Soviet  repub- 
lics, Gamsakhurdia  organized  a  separate  referendum  on  Geor- 
gian independence.  The  measure  was  approved  by  98.9 
percent  of  Georgian  voters.  On  April  9,  1991,  the  second  anni- 
versary of  the  April  Tragedy,  the  Georgian  parliament  passed  a 
declaration  of  independence  from  the  Soviet  Union.  Once  the 
Soviet  Union  collapsed  at  the  end  of  1991,  Georgia  refused  to 
participate  in  the  formation  or  subsequent  activities  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS — see  Glossary), 
the  loose  confederation  of  independent  republics  that  suc- 
ceeded the  Soviet  Union. 

The  Struggle  for  Control 

In  May  1991,  Gamsakhurdia  was  elected  president  of  Geor- 
gia (receiving  over  86  percent  of  the  vote)  in  the  first  popular 
presidential  election  in  a  Soviet  republic.  Apparently  perceiv- 
ing the  election  as  a  mandate  to  run  Georgia  personally,  Gam- 
sakhurdia made  increasingly  erratic  policy  and  personnel 
decisions  in  the  months  that  followed,  while  his  attitude  toward 
the  opposition  became  more  strident.  After  intense  conflict 
with  Gamsakhurdia,  Prime  Minister  Tengiz  Sigua  resigned  in 
August  1991. 

The  August  1991  coup  attempt  against  Gorbachev  in  Mos- 
cow marked  a  turning  point  in  Georgian  as  well  as  in  Soviet 
politics.  Gamsakhurdia  made  it  clear  that  he  believed  the  coup, 
headed  by  the  Soviet  minister  of  defense  and  the  head  of  the 
KGB,  was  both  inevitable  and  likely  to  succeed.  Accordingly,  he 


169 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

ordered  Russian  president  Boris  N.  Yeltsin's  proclamations 
against  the  coup  removed  from  the  streets  of  Tbilisi.  Gamsa- 
khurdia  also  ordered  the  National  Guard  to  turn  in  its  weap- 
ons, disband,  and  integrate  itself  into  the  forces  of  the  Ministry 
of  Internal  Affairs.  Opposition  leaders  immediately  denounced 
this  action  as  capitulation  to  the  coup.  In  defiance  of  Gamsa- 
khurdia,  National  Guard  commander  Tengiz  Kitovani  led  most 
of  his  troops  out  of  Tbilisi. 

The  opposition  to  Gamsakhurdia,  now  joined  in  an  uneasy 
coalition  behind  Sigua  and  Kitovani,  demanded  that  Gamsa- 
khurdia resign  and  call  new  parliamentary  elections.  Gamsa- 
khurdia refused  to  compromise,  and  his  troops  forcibly 
dispersed  a  large  opposition  rally  in  Tbilisi  in  September  1991. 
Chanturia,  whose  National  Democratic  Party  was  one  of  the 
most  active  opposition  groups  at  that  time,  was  arrested  and 
imprisoned  on  charges  of  seeking  help  from  Moscow  to  over- 
throw the  government. 

In  the  ensuing  period,  both  the  government  and  extraparlia- 
mentary  opposition  intensified  the  purchase  and  "liberation" 
of  large  quantities  of  weapons — mostly  from  Soviet  military 
units  stationed  in  Georgia — including  heavy  artillery,  tanks, 
helicopter  gunships,  and  armored  personnel  carriers.  On 
December  22,  intense  fighting  broke  out  in  central  Tbilisi  after 
government  troops  again  used  force  to  disperse  demonstrators. 
At  this  point,  the  National  Guard  and  the  Mkhedrioni  besieged 
Gamsakhurdia  and  his  supporters  in  the  heavily  fortified  parlia- 
ment building.  Gunfire  and  artillery  severely  damaged  central 
Tbilisi,  and  Gamsakhurdia  fled  the  city  in  early  January  1992  to 
seek  refuge  outside  Georgia. 

The  Military  Council 

A  Military  Council  made  up  of  Sigua,  Kitovani,  and  Mkhedri- 
oni leader  Jaba  Ioseliani  took  control  after  Gamsakhurdia's 
departure.  Shortly  thereafter,  a  Political  Consultative  Council 
and  a  larger  State  Council  were  formed  to  provide  more  deci- 
sive leadership  (see  Government  and  Politics,  this  ch.).  In 
March  1992,  Eduard  Shevardnadze  returned  to  Georgia  at  the 
invitation  of  the  Military  Council.  Shortly  thereafter,  Shevard- 
nadze joined  Ioseliani,  Sigua,  and  Kitovani  to  form  the  State 
Council  Presidium.  All  four  were  given  the  right  of  veto  over 
State  Council  decisions. 

Gamsakhurdia,  despite  his  absence,  continued  to  enjoy  sub- 
stantial support  within  Georgia,  especially  in  rural  areas  and  in 


170 


Georgia 


his  home  region  of  Mingrelia  in  western  Georgia.  Gamsakhur- 
dia  supporters  now  constituted  another  extraparliamentary 
opposition,  viewing  themselves  as  victims  of  an  illegal  and 
unconstitutional  putsch  and  refusing  to  participate  in  future 
elections.  Based  in  the  neighboring  Chechen  Autonomous 
Republic  of  Russia,  Gamsakhurdia  continued  to  play  a  direct 
role  in  Georgian  politics,  characterizing  Shevardnadze  as  an 
agent  of  Moscow  in  a  neocommunist  conspiracy  against  Geor- 
gia. In  March  1992,  Gamsakhurdia  convened  a  parliament  in 
exile  in  the  Chechen  city  of  Groznyy.  In  1992  and  1993,  his 
armed  supporters  prevented  the  Georgian  government  from 
gaining  control  of  parts  of  western  Georgia. 

Threats  of  Fragmentation 

The  autonomous  areas  of  South  Ossetia  and  Abkhazia 
added  to  the  problems  of  Georgia's  post-Soviet  governments. 
By  1993  separatist  movements  in  those  regions  threatened  to 
tear  the  republic  into  several  sections.  Intimations  of  Russian 
interference  in  the  ethnic  crises  also  complicated  Georgia's 
relations  with  its  giant  neighbor. 

South  Ossetia 

The  first  major  crisis  faced  by  the  Gamsakhurdia  regime  was 
in  the  South  Ossetian  Autonomous  Region,  which  is  largely 
populated  by  Ossetians,  a  separate  ethnic  group  speaking  a  lan- 
guage based  on  Persian  (see  Population  and  Ethnic  Composi- 
tion, this  ch.).  In  December  1990,  Gamsakhurdia  summarily 
abolished  the  region's  autonomous  status  within  Georgia  in 
response  to  its  longtime  efforts  to  gain  independence.  When 
the  South  Ossetian  regional  legislature  took  its  first  steps 
toward  secession  and  union  with  the  North  Ossetian  Autono- 
mous Republic  of  Russia,  Georgian  forces  invaded.  The  result- 
ing conflict  lasted  throughout  1991,  causing  thousands  of 
casualties  and  creating  tens  of  thousands  of  refugees  on  both 
sides  of  the  Georgian-Russian  border.  Yeltsin  mediated  a  cease- 
fire in  July  1992.  A  year  later,  the  cease-fire  was  still  in  place, 
enforced  by  Ossetian  and  Georgian  troops  together  with  six 
Russian  battalions.  Representatives  of  the  Conference  on  Secu- 
rity and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE — see  Glossary) 
attempted  mediation,  but  the  two  sides  remained  intractable. 
In  July  1993,  the  South  Ossetian  government  declared  negotia- 
tions over  and  threatened  to  renew  large-scale  combat,  but  the 
cease-fire  held  through  early  1994. 


171 


172 


Church  and  fortress  on  Georgian  Military  Highway  at  Ananuri 

Courtesy  Gordon  Snider 


173 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
Abkhazia 

In  the  Abkhazian  Autonomous  Republic  of  Georgia,  the 
Abkhazian  population,  like  the  Ossetians  a  distinct  ethnic 
group,  feared  that  the  Georgians  would  eliminate  their  politi- 
cal autonomy  and  destroy  the  Abkhaz  as  a  cultural  entity  On 
one  hand,  a  long  history  of  ill  will  between  the  Abkhaz  and  the 
Georgians  was  complicated  by  the  minority  status  of  the 
Abkhaz  within  the  autonomous  republic  and  by  periodic  Geor- 
gianization  campaigns,  first  by  the  Soyiet  and  later  by  the  Geor- 
gian government.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Georgian  majority  in 
Abkhazia  resented  disproportionate  distribution  of  political 
and  administrative  positions  to  the  Abkhaz.  Beginning  in  1978. 
Moscow  had  sought  to  head  off  Abkhazian  demands  for  inde- 
pendence by  allocating  as  much  as  67  percent  of  party  and  gov- 
ernment positions  to  the  Abkhaz.  although.,  according  to  the 
1989  census,  2.5  times  as  many  Georgians  as  Abkhaz  lived  in 
Abkhazia. 

Tensions  in  Abkhazia  led  to  open  warfare  on  a  much  larger 
scale  than  in  South  Ossetia.  In  July  1992.  the  Abkhazian 
Supreme  Soviet  voted  to  return  to  the  1925  constitution,  under 
which  Abkhazia  was  separate  from  Georgia.  In  August  1992,  a 
force  of  the  Georgian  National  Guard  was  sent  to  the  Abkha- 
zian capital  of  Sukhumi  with  orders  to  protect  Georgian  rail 
and  road  supply  lines  and  to  secure  the  border  with  Russia. 
When  Abkhazian  authorities  reacted  to  this  transgression  of 
their  self-proclaimed  sovereignty  hundreds  were  killed  in  fight- 
ing between  Abkhazian  and  Georgian  forces,  and  large  num- 
bers of  refugees  fled  across  the  border  into  Russia  or  into  other 
parts  of  Georgia.  The  Abkhazian  government  was  forced  to  flee 
Sukhumi. 

For  two  centuries,  the  Abkhaz  had  viewed  Russia  as  a  protec- 
tor of  their  interests  asrainst  the  Georgians:  accordingly,  the 
Georgian  incursion  of  1992  brought  an  Abkhazian  plea  for 
Russia  to  intervene  and  settle  the  issue.  An  unknown  number 
of  Russian  military  personnel  and  volunteers  also  fought  on 
the  side  of  the  Abkhaz,  and  Shevardnadze  accused  Yeltsin  of 
intentionally  weakening  Georgia's  national  security  by  support- 
ing separatists.  .After  the  failure  of  three  cease-fires,  in  Septem- 
ber 1993  Abkhazian  forces  besieged  and  captured  Sukhumi 
and  drove  the  remaining;  Georgian  forces  out  of  Abkhazia.  In 
the  fall  of  1993,  mediation  efforts  bv  the  United  Nations  (UN) 
and  Russia  were  slowed  bv  Georgia's  struggle  against  Gamsa- 
khurdia's  forces  in  Mingrelia.  south  of  Abkhazia.  In  earlv  1994, 


174 


Georgia 


a  de  facto  cease-fire  remained  in  place,  with  the  Inguri  River  in 
northwest  Georgia  serving  as  the  dividing  line.  Separatist  forces 
made  occasional  forays  into  Georgian  territory,  however. 

In  September  1993,  Gamsakhurdia  took  advantage  of  the 
struggle  in  Abkhazia  to  return  to  Georgia  and  rally  enthusiastic 
but  disorganized  Mingrelians  against  the  demoralized  Geor- 
gian army.  Although  Gamsakhurdia  initially  represented  his 
return  as  a  rescue  of  Georgian  forces,  he  actually  included  Ab- 
khazian troops  in  his  new  advance.  Gamsakhurdia's  forces  took 
several  towns  in  western  Georgia,  adding  urgency  to  an  appeal 
by  Shevardnadze  for  Russian  military  assistance.  In  mid-Octo- 
ber the  addition  of  Russian  weapons,  supply-line  security,  and 
technical  assistance  turned  the  tide  against  Gamsakhurdia  and 
brought  a  quick  end  to  hostilities  on  the  Mingrelian  front  (see 
Foreign  Relations,  this  ch.).  His  cause  apparently  lost,  Gamsa- 
khurdia committed  suicide  in  January  1994. 

Physical  Environment 

Georgia  is  a  small  country  of  approximately  69,875  square 
kilometers — about  the  size  of  West  Virginia.  To  the  north  and 
northeast,  Georgia  borders  the  Russian  republics  of  Chechnya, 
Ingushetia,  and  North  Ossetia  (all  of  which  began  to  seek 
autonomy  from  Russia  in  1992).  Neighbors  to  the  south  are 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Turkey.  The  shoreline  of  the  Black 
Sea  constitutes  Georgia's  entire  western  border  (see  fig.  1). 

Topography 

Despite  its  small  area,  Georgia  has  one  of  the  most  varied 
topographies  of  the  former  Soviet  republics  (see  fig.  2).  Geor- 
gia lies  mostly  in  the  Caucasus  Mountains,  and  its  northern 
boundary  is  partly  defined  by  the  Greater  Caucasus  range.  The 
Lesser  Caucasus  range,  which  runs  parallel  to  the  Turkish  and 
Armenian  borders,  and  the  Surami  and  Imereti  ranges,  which 
connect  the  Greater  Caucasus  and  the  Lesser  Caucasus,  create 
natural  barriers  that  are  partly  responsible  for  cultural  and  lin- 
guistic differences  among  regions.  Because  of  their  elevation 
and  a  poorly  developed  transportation  infrastructure,  many 
mountain  villages  are  virtually  isolated  from  the  outside  world 
during  the  winter.  Earthquakes  and  landslides  in  mountainous 
areas  present  a  significant  threat  to  life  and  property.  Among 
the  most  recent  natural  disasters  were  massive  rock-  and  mud- 
slides in  Ajaria  in  1989  that  displaced  thousands  of  people  in 
southwestern  Georgia,  and  two  earthquakes  in  1991  that 


175 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

destroyed  several  villages  in  north-central  Georgia  and  South 
Ossetia. 

Georgia  has  about  25,000  rivers,  many  of  which  power  small 
hydroelectric  stations.  Drainage  is  into  the  Black  Sea  to  the 
west  and  through  Azerbaijan  to  the  Caspian  Sea  to  the  east. 
The  largest  river  is  the  Mtkvari  (formerly  known  by  its  Azer- 
baijani name,  Kura,  which  is  still  used  in  Azerbaijan),  which 
flows  1,364  kilometers  from  northeast  Turkey  across  the  plains 
of  eastern  Georgia,  through  the  capital,  Tbilisi,  and  into  the 
Caspian  Sea.  The  Rioni  River,  the  largest  river  in  western  Geor- 
gia, rises  in  the  Greater  Caucasus  and  empties  into  the  Black 
Sea  at  the  port  of  Poti.  Soviet  engineers  turned  the  river  low- 
lands along  the  Black  Sea  coast  into  prime  subtropical  agricul- 
tural land,  embanked  and  straightened  many  stretches  of  river, 
and  built  an  extensive  system  of  canals.  Deep  mountain  gorges 
form  topographical  belts  within  the  Greater  Caucasus. 

Climate 

Georgia's  climate  is  affected  by  subtropical  influences  from 
the  west  and  mediterranean  influences  from  the  east.  The 
Greater  Caucasus  range  moderates  local  climate  by  serving  as  a 
barrier  against  cold  air  from  the  north.  Warm,  moist  air  from 
the  Black  Sea  moves  easily  into  the  coastal  lowlands  from  the 
west.  Climatic  zones  are  determined  by  distance  from  the  Black 
Sea  and  by  altitude.  Along  the  Black  Sea  coast,  from  Abkhazia 
to  the  Turkish  border,  and  in  the  region  known  as  the  Kolkhida 
Lowlands  inland  from  the  coast,  the  dominant  subtropical  cli- 
mate features  high  humidity  and  heavy  precipitation  (1,000  to 
2,000  millimeters  per  year;  the  Black  Sea  port  of  Batumi 
receives  2,500  millimeters  per  year).  Several  varieties  of  palm 
trees  grow  in  these  regions,  where  the  midwinter  average  tem- 
perature is  5°C  and  the  midsummer  average  is  22°C. 

The  plains  of  eastern  Georgia  are  shielded  from  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Black  Sea  by  mountains  that  provide  a  more  conti- 
nental climate.  Summer  temperatures  average  20°C  to  24°C, 
winter  temperatures  2°C  to  4°C.  Humidity  is  lower,  and  rainfall 
averages  500  to  800  millimeters  per  year.  Alpine  and  highland 
regions  in  the  east  and  west,  as  well  as  a  semiarid  region  on  the 
Iori  Plateau  to  the  southeast,  have  distinct  microclimates. 

At  higher  elevations,  precipitation  is  sometimes  twice  as 
heavy  as  in  the  eastern  plains.  In  the  west,  the  climate  is  sub- 
tropical to  about  650  meters;  above  that  altitude  (and  to  the 
north  and  east)  is  a  band  of  moist  and  moderately  warm 


176 


Georgia 


weather,  then  a  band  of  cool  and  wet  conditions.  Alpine  condi- 
tions begin  at  about  2,100  meters,  and  above  3,600  meters 
snow  and  ice  are  present  year-round. 

Environmental  Issues 

Beginning  in  the  1980s,  Black  Sea  pollution  has  greatly 
harmed  Georgia's  tourist  industry.  Inadequate  sewage  treat- 
ment is  the  main  cause  of  that  condition.  In  Batumi,  for  exam- 
ple, only  18  percent  of  wastewater  is  treated  before  release  into 
the  sea.  An  estimated  70  percent  of  surface  water  contains 
health-endangering  bacteria,  to  which  Georgia's  high  rate  of 
intestinal  disease  is  attributed. 

The  war  in  Abkhazia  did  substantial  damage  to  the  ecologi- 
cal habitats  unique  to  that  region.  In  other  respects,  experts 
considered  Georgia's  environmental  problems  less  serious  than 
those  of  more  industrialized  former  Soviet  republics.  Solving 
Georgia's  environmental  problems  was  not  a  high  priority  of 
the  national  government  in  the  post-Soviet  years,  however;  in 
1993  the  minister  of  protection  of  the  environment  resigned  to 
protest  this  inactivity.  In  January  1994,  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers 
announced  a  new,  interdepartmental  environmental  monitor- 
ing system  to  centralize  separate  programs  under  the  direction 
of  the  Ministry  of  Protection  of  the  Environment.  The  system 
would  include  a  central  environmental  and  information  and 
research  agency.  The  Green  Party  used  its  small  contingent  in 
the  parliament  to  press  environmental  issues  in  1993. 

Population  and  Ethnic  Composition 

Over  many  centuries,  Georgia  gained  a  reputation  for  toler- 
ance of  minority  religions  and  ethnic  groups  from  elsewhere, 
but  the  postcommunist  era  was  a  time  of  sharp  conflict  among 
groups  long  considered  part  of  the  national  fabric.  Modern 
Georgia  is  populated  by  several  ethnic  groups,  but  by  far  the 
most  numerous  of  them  is  the  Georgians.  In  the  early  1990s, 
the  population  was  increasing  slowly,  and  armed  hostilities 
were  causing  large-scale  emigration  from  certain  regions.  The 
ethnic  background  of  some  groups,  such  as  the  Abkhaz,  was  a 
matter  of  sharp  dispute. 

Population  Characteristics 

According  to  the  Soviet  Union's  1989  census,  the  total  popu- 


177 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

lation  of  Georgia  was  5.3  million.  The  estimated  population  in 
1993  was  5.6  million.  Between  1979  and  1989,  the  population 
grew  by  8.5  percent,  with  growth  rates  of  16.7  percent  among 
the  urban  population  and  0.3  percent  in  rural  areas.  In  1993 
the  overall  growth  rate  was  0.8  percent.  About  55.8  percent  of 
the  population  was  classified  as  urban;  Tbilisi,  the  capital  and 
largest  city,  had  more  than  1.2  million  inhabitants  in  1989,  or 
approximately  23  percent  of  the  national  total.  The  capital's 
population  grew  by  18.1  percent  between  1979  and  1989, 
mainly  because  of  migration  from  rural  areas.  Kutaisi,  the  sec- 
ond largest  city,  had  a  population  of  about  235,000. 

In  1991  Georgia's  birth  rate  was  seventeen  per  1,000  popula- 
tion, its  death  rate  nine  per  1,000.  Life  expectancy  was  sixty- 
seven  years  for  males  and  seventy-five  years  for  females.  In  1990 
the  infant  mortality  rate  was  196  per  10,000  live  births.  Average 
family  size  in  1989  was  4.1,  with  larger  families  predominantly 
located  in  rural  areas.  In  the  1980s  and  early  1990s,  the  Geor- 
gian population  was  aging  slowly;  the  cohort  under  age  nine- 
teen shrank  slightly  and  the  cohort  over  sixty  increased  slightly 
as  percentages  of  the  entire  population  during  that  period. 
The  Georgian  and  Abkhazian  populations  were  the  subjects  of 
substantial  international  study  by  anthropologists  and  geron- 
tologists  because  of  the  relatively  high  number  of  centenarians 
among  them. 

Ethnic  Minorities 

Regional  ethnic  distribution  is  a  major  cause  of  the  prob- 
lems Georgia  faces  along  its  borders  and  within  its  territory 
(see  fig.  14).  Russians,  who  make  up  the  third  largest  ethnic 
group  in  the  country  (6.7  percent  of  the  total  population  in 
1989),  do  not  constitute  a  majority  in  any  district.  The  highest 
concentration  of  Russians  is  in  Abkhazia,  but  the  overall  disper- 
sion of  the  Russian  population  restricts  political  representation 
of  the  Russians'  interests. 

Azerbaijanis  are  a  majority  of  the  population  in  the  districts 
of  Marneuli  and  Bolnisi,  south  of  Tbilisi  on  the  Azerbaijan  bor- 
der, while  Armenians  are  a  majority  in  the  Akhalkalaki,  Ninots- 
minda,  and  Dmanisi  districts  immediately  to  the  west  of  the 
Azerbaijani-dominated  regions  and  just  north  of  the  Armenian 
border.  Despite  the  proximity  and  intermingling  of  Armenian 
and  Azerbaijani  populations  in  Georgia,  in  the  early  1990s  few 
conflicts  in  Georgia  reflected  the  hostility  of  the  Armenian  and 
Azerbaijani  nations  over  the  territory  of  Nagorno-Karabakh 


178 


Georgia 


(see  Nagorno-Karabakh  and  Independence,  ch.  1;  National 
Security,  ch.  2).  Organizations  in  Georgia  representing  the 
interests  of  the  Armenian  and  Azerbaijani  populations  had  rel- 
atively few  conflicts  with  authorities  in  Tbilisi  in  the  first  post- 
communist  years. 

Under  Soviet  rule,  a  large  part  of  Georgian  territory  was 
divided  into  autonomous  areas  that  included  concentrations  of 
non-Georgian  peoples.  The  largest  such  region  was  the  Abkha- 
zian Autonomous  Soviet  Socialist  Republic  (Abkhazian  ASSR); 
after  Georgian  independence,  it  was  redesignated  the  Abkha- 
zian Autonomous  Republic.  The  distribution  of  territory  and 
the  past  policies  of  tsarist  and  Soviet  rule  meant  that  in  1989 
the  Abkhaz  made  up  only  17.8  percent  of  the  population  of  the 
autonomous  republic  named  for  them  (compared  with  44  per- 
cent Georgians  and  16  percent  Russians).  The  Abkhaz  consti- 
tuted less  than  2  percent  of  the  total  population  of  Georgia. 
Although  Georgian  was  the  prevailing  language  of  the  region 
as  early  as  the  eighth  century  A.D.,  Abkhazia  was  an  autono- 
mous republic  of  Russia  from  1921  until  1930,  when  it  was 
incorporated  into  Georgia  as  an  autonomous  republic. 

In  the  thirteenth  century,  Ossetians  arrived  on  the  south 
side  of  the  Caucasus  Mountains,  in  Georgian  territory,  when 
the  Mongols  drove  them  from  what  is  now  the  North  Ossetian 
Autonomous  Republic  of  Russia.  In  1922  the  South  Ossetian 
Autonomous  Region  was  formed  within  the  new  Transcauca- 
sian  republic  of  the  Soviet  Union.  The  autonomous  region  was 
abolished  officially  by  the  Georgian  government  in  1990,  then 
reinstated  in  1992.  South  Ossetia  includes  many  all-Georgian 
villages,  and  the  Ossetian  population  is  concentrated  in  the  cit- 
ies of  Tskhinvali  and  Java.  Overall,  in  the  1980s  the  population 
in  South  Ossetia  was  66  percent  Ossetian  and  29  percent  Geor- 
gian. In  1989  more  than  60  percent  of  the  Ossetian  population 
of  Georgia  lived  outside  South  Ossetia. 

The  Ajarian  Autonomous  Soviet  Socialist  Republic  (Ajarian 
ASSR)  in  southwest  Georgia  was  redesignated  the  Ajarian 
Autonomous  Republic  in  1992.  The  existence  of  that  republic 
reflects  the  religious  and  cultural  differences  that  developed 
when  the  Ottoman  Empire  occupied  part  of  Georgia  in  the  six- 
teenth century  and  converted  the  local  population  to  Islam. 
The  Ajarian  region  was  not  included  in  Georgia  until  the 
Treaty  of  Berlin  separated  it  from  the  Ottoman  Empire  in 
1878.  An  autonomous  republic  within  Georgia  was  declared  in 
1921.  Because  the  Ajarian  population  is  indistinguishable  from 


179 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Ethnic  Groups 
Ab  Abkhazian 
Ar  Armenian 
Az  Azerbaijani 
Gr  Greek 
O  Ossetian 
R  Russian 
'  / /\  Georgian 


ABKHAZIAN 
AUTONOMOUS 
REPUBLIC 


AJARIAN 
AUTONOMOUS 
REPUBLIC 


 ^  

 International  boundary 

 Autonomous  republic  boundary 

®     National  capital 
0     25    50    75  Kilometers 

0         25         50        75  Miles 

Bmmaatym 
mtmc0ss&t 

\  ARMENIA 
/  \  AZEI 


j  IRAN  ^AZER.       }       -  C* 


Figure  14.  Ethnic  Groups  in  Georgia 


the  Georgian  population  in  language  and  belongs  to  the  same 
ethnic  group,  it  generally  considers  itself  Georgian.  Eventually, 
the  term  "Ajarian"  was  dropped  from  the  ethnic  categories  in 
the  Soviet  national  census.  Thus,  in  the  1979  census  the  ethnic 
breakdown  of  the  region  showed  about  80  percent  Georgians 
(including  Ajars)  and  10  percent  Russians.  Nevertheless,  the 
autonomous  republic  remains  an  administrative  subdivision  of 
the  Republic  of  Georgia,  local  elites  having  fought  hard  to  pre- 
serve the  special  status  that  this  distinction  affords  them. 

The  so-called  Meskhetian  Turks  are  another  potential  source 
of  ethnic  discord.  Forcibly  exiled  from  southern  Georgia  to 
Uzbekistan  by  Stalin  during  World  War  II,  many  of  the  esti- 
mated 200,000  Meskhetian  Turks  outside  Georgia  sought  to 
return  to  their  homes  in  Georgia  after  1990.  Many  Georgians 


180 


Georgia 


argued  that  the  Meskhetian  Turks  had  lost  their  links  to  Geor- 
gia and  hence  had  no  rights  that  would  justify  the  large-scale 
upheaval  that  resettlement  would  cause.  However,  Shevard- 
nadze argued  that  Georgians  had  a  moral  obligation  to  allow 
this  group  to  return. 

Within  the  leading  ethnic  groups,  the  fastest  growth  between 
1979  and  1989  occurred  in  the  Azerbaijani  population  and 
among  the  Kurds  (see  Glossary),  whose  numbers  increased  by 
20  percent  and  30  percent,  respectively.  This  trend  worried 
Georgians,  even  though  both  groups  combined  made  up  less 
than  7  percent  of  the  republic's  population.  Over  the  same 
period,  the  dominant  Georgians'  share  of  the  population 
increased  from  68.8  percent  to  70.1  percent.  Ethnic  shifts  after 
1989 — particularly  the  emigration  of  Russians,  Ukrainians,  and 
Ossetians — were  largely  responsible  for  the  Georgians' 
increased  share  of  the  population. 

Language,  Religion,  and  Culture 

For  centuries,  Georgia's  geographic  position  has  opened  it 
to  religious  and  cultural  influences  from  the  West,  Persia,  Tur- 
key, and  Russia.  The  resultant  diversity  continues  to  character- 
ize the  cultural  and  religious  life  of  modern  Georgia.  However, 
the  Georgian  language  displays  unique  qualities  that  cannot  be 
attributed  to  any  outside  influence. 

Language 

Even  more  than  religion,  the  issue  of  language  was  deeply 
entwined  with  political  struggles  in  Georgia  under  communist 
rule.  As  elsewhere,  language  became  a  key  factor  in  ethnic  self- 
identification  under  the  uniformity  of  the  communist  system. 
Written  in  a  unique  alphabet  that  began  to  exhibit  distinctions 
from  the  Greek  alphabet  in  the  fifth  century  A.D.,  Georgian  is 
linguistically  distant  from  Turkic  and  Indo-European  lan- 
guages. In  the  Soviet  period,  Georgians  fought  relentlessly  to 
prevent  what  they  perceived  as  the  encroachment  of  Russian 
on  their  native  language.  Even  the  republic's  Soviet-era  consti- 
tutions specified  Georgian  as  the  state  language.  In  1978  Mos- 
cow failed  to  impose  a  constitutional  change  giving  Russian 
equal  status  with  Georgian  as  an  official  language  when  She- 
vardnadze yielded  to  mass  demonstrations  against  the  amend- 
ment (see  Within  the  Soviet  Union,  this  ch.).  Nevertheless,  the 
Russian  language  predominated  in  official  documents  and 
communications  from  the  central  government.  In  1991  the 


181 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Gamsakhurdia  government  reestablished  the  primacy  of  Geor- 
gian, to  the  dismay  of  minorities  that  did  not  use  the  language. 
In  1993  some  71  percent  of  the  population  used  Georgian  as 
their  first  language.  Russian  was  the  first  language  of  9  percent, 
Armenian  of  7  percent,  and  Azerbaijani  of  6  percent. 

Religion 

The  wide  variety  of  peoples  inhabiting  Georgia  has  meant  a 
correspondingly  rich  array  of  active  religions.  The  dominant 
religion  is  Christianity,  and  the  Georgian  Orthodox  Church  is 
by  far  the  largest  church.  The  conversion  of  the  Georgians  in 
A.D.  330  placed  them  among  the  first  peoples  to  accept  Chris- 
tianity. According  to  tradition,  a  holy  slave  woman,  who 
became  known  as  Saint  Nino,  cured  Queen  Nana  of  Iberia  of 
an  unknown  illness,  and  King  Marian  III  accepted  Christianity 
when  a  second  miracle  occurred  during  a  royal  hunting  trip. 
The  Georgians'  new  faith,  which  replaced  Greek  pagan  and 
Zoroastrian  beliefs,  was  to  place  them  permanently  on  the 
front  line  of  conflict  between  the  Islamic  and  Christian  worlds. 
As  was  true  elsewhere,  the  Christian  church  in  Georgia  was  cru- 
cial to  the  development  of  a  written  language,  and  most  of  the 
earliest  written  works  were  religious  texts.  After  Georgia  was 
annexed  by  the  Russian  Empire,  the  Russian  Orthodox  Church 
took  over  the  Georgian  church  in  1811.  The  colorful  frescoes 
and  wall  paintings  typical  of  Georgian  cathedrals  were  white- 
washed by  the  Russian  occupiers. 

The  Georgian  church  regained  its  autonomy  only  when  Rus- 
sian rule  ended  in  1918.  Neither  the  Georgian  Menshevik  gov- 
ernment nor  the  Bolshevik  regime  that  followed  considered 
revitalization  of  the  Georgian  church  an  important  goal,  how- 
ever. Soviet  rule  brought  severe  purges  of  the  Georgian  church 
hierarchy  and  constant  repression  of  Orthodox  worship.  As 
elsewhere  in  the  Soviet  Union,  many  churches  were  destroyed 
or  converted  into  secular  buildings.  This  history  of  repression 
encouraged  the  incorporation  of  religious  identity  into  the 
strong  nationalist  movement  in  twentieth-century  Georgia  and 
the  quest  of  Georgians  for  religious  expression  outside  the  offi- 
cial, government-controlled  church.  In  the  late  1960s  and  early 
1970s,  opposition  leaders,  especially  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia,  criti- 
cized corruption  in  the  church  hierarchy  When  Ilia  II  became 
the  patriarch  (catholicos)  of  the  Georgian  Orthodox  Church 
in  the  late  1970s,  he  brought  order  and  a  new  morality  to 
church  affairs,  and  Georgian  Orthodoxy  experienced  a  revival. 


182 


His  Holiness  Ilia  II, 
Patriarch  ofMtskheta  and 
All  Georgia,  leader  of 
Georgian  Orthodox  Church 
Courtesy  Janet  A.  Koczak 


In  1988  Moscow  permitted  the  patriarch  to  begin  consecrating 
and  reopening  closed  churches,  and  a  large-scale  restoration 
process  began.  In  1993  some  65  percent  of  Georgians  were 
Georgian  Orthodox,  11  percent  were  Muslim,  10  percent  Rus- 
sian Orthodox,  and  8  percent  Armenian  Apostolic. 

Non-Orthodox  religions  traditionally  have  received  tolerant 
treatment  in  Georgia.  Jewish  communities  exist  throughout  the 
country,  with  major  concentrations  in  the  two  largest  cities, 
Tbilisi  and  Kutaisi.  Azerbaijani  groups  have  practiced  Islam  in 
Georgia  for  centuries,  as  have  the  Abkhazian  and  Ajarian 
groups  concentrated  in  their  respective  autonomous  republics. 
The  Armenian  Apostolic  Church,  whose  doctrine  differs  in 
some  ways  from  that  of  Georgian  Orthodoxy,  has  autocepha- 
lous  status. 

The  Arts 

In  many  art  forms,  Georgia  has  a  tradition  spanning  millen- 
nia. The  golden  age  of  the  Georgian  Empire  (early  twelfth  cen- 
tury to  early  thirteenth  century)  was  the  time  of  greatest 
development  in  many  forms,  and  subsequent  centuries  of  occu- 
pation and  political  domination  brought  decline  or  dilution. 
Folk  music  and  dance,  however,  remain  an  important  part  of 
Georgia's  unique  culture,  and  Georgians  have  made  significant 
contributions  to  theater  and  film  in  the  late  twentieth  century. 


183 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
Literature 

Among  literary  works  written  in  Georgian,  Shota  Rustaveli's 
long  poem  The  Knight  in  the  Panther  Skin  occupies  a  unique 
position  as  the  Georgian  national  epic.  Supposedly  Rustaveli 
was  a  government  official  during  Queen  Tamar's  reign  (1184- 
1212),  late  in  the  golden  age.  In  describing  the  questing  adven- 
tures of  three  hero-knights,  the  poem  includes  rich  philosophi- 
cal musings  that  have  become  proverbs  in  Georgian.  Even 
during  communist  rule,  the  main  street  of  the  Georgian  capital 
was  named  after  Rustaveli. 

Architecture 

Starting  in  its  earliest  days,  Georgia  developed  a  unique 
architectural  style  that  is  most  visible  in  religious  structures  dat- 
ing as  far  back  as  the  sixth  century  A.D.  The  cupola  structure 
typical  of  Georgian  churches  probably  was  based  on  circular 
domestic  dwellings  that  existed  as  early  as  3000  B.C.  Roman, 
Greek,  and  Syrian  architecture  also  influenced  this  style.  Per- 
sian occupation  added  a  new  element,  and  in  the  nineteenth 
century  Russian  domination  created  a  hybrid  architectural 
style  visible  in  many  buildings  in  Tbilisi.  The  so-called  Stalinist 
architecture  of  the  mid-twentieth  century  also  left  its  mark  on 
the  capital. 

Painting,  Sculpture,  and  Metalworking 

Like  literature,  Georgian  mural  painting  reached  its  zenith 
during  the  golden  age  of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries. 
Featuring  both  religious  and  secular  themes,  many  monuments 
of  this  and  the  later  Byzantine-  and  Persian-influenced  periods 
were  destroyed  by  the  Russians  in  the  nineteenth  century. 
Examples  of  Georgian  religious  painting  remain  in  some  of  the 
old  churches.  Stone  carving  and  metalworking  traditions  had 
developed  in  antiquity,  when  Roman  and  Greek  techniques 
were  incorporated.  In  the  golden  age,  sculpture  was  applied 
most  often  to  the  outside  of  buildings.  In  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury, several  Georgian  sculptors  have  gained  international  rec- 
ognition.  Among  them  is  Elguja  Amasukheli,  whose 
monuments  are  landmarks  in  Tbilisi.  Metalworking  was  well 
established  in  the  Caucasus  among  the  ancestors  of  the  Geor- 
gians as  early  as  the  Bronze  Age  (second  millennium  B.C.). 
This  art  form,  applied  to  both  religious  and  secular  subjects, 
declined  in  the  Middle  Ages. 


184 


Georgia 


Music  and  Dance 

Georgia  is  known  for  its  rich  and  unique  folk  dance  and 
music.  The  Georgian  State  Dance  Company,  founded  in  the 
1940s,  has  traveled  around  the  world  performing  spectacular 
renditions  of  traditional  Georgian  dances.  Unique  in  folk-danc- 
ing tradition,  Georgian  male  performers  dance  on  their  toes 
without  the  help  of  special  blocked  shoes.  Georgian  folk  music, 
featuring  complex,  three-part,  polyphonic  harmonies,  has  long 
been  a  subject  of  special  interest  among  musicologists.  Men 
and  women  sing  in  separate  ensembles  with  entirely  different 
repertoires.  Most  Georgian  folk  songs  are  peculiar  to  individ- 
ual regions  of  Georgia.  The  inspiration  is  most  often  the 
church,  work  in  the  fields,  or  special  occasions.  The  Rustavi 
Choir,  formed  in  1968,  is  the  best  known  Georgian  group  per- 
forming a  traditional  repertoire. 

In  modern  Georgia,  folk  songs  are  most  frequently  sung 
around  the  table.  The  ceremonial  dinner  {supra),  a  frequent 
occurrence  in  Georgian  homes,  is  a  highly  ritualized  event  that 
itself  forms  a  direct  link  to  Georgia's  past.  On  such  occasions, 
rounds  of  standardized  and  improvised  toasts  typically  extend 
long  into  the  night.  Georgian  cuisine,  which  includes  a  variety 
of  delicate  sauces  and  sharp  spices,  is  also  an  important  part  of 
the  culture  that  links  the  generations.  In  the  Soviet  period,  the 
best  restaurants  in  the  large  cities  of  other  republics  were  often 
Georgian. 

Film  and  Theater 

In  the  postwar  era,  Georgian  filmmaking  and  theater  devel- 
oped an  outstanding  reputation  in  the  Soviet  Union.  Several 
Georgian  filmmakers  achieved  international  recognition  in 
this  period.  Perhaps  the  single  most  important  film  of  the  pere- 
stroika  (see  Glossary)  period  was  Tengiz  Abuladze's  Repentance. 
This  powerful  work,  which  won  international  acclaim  when 
released  in  1987,  showed  the  consequences  of  Stalin's  Great 
Terror  of  the  1930s  through  a  depiction  of  the  reign  of  a  fic- 
tional local  dictator.  In  1993,  despite  chaotic  political  condi- 
tions, Tbilisi  hosted  the  Golden  Eagle  Film  Festival  of  the  Black 
Sea  Basin  Countries,  Georgia's  first  international  film  festival. 
Georgians  also  excel  in  theater.  The  Tbilisi-based  Rustaveli 
Theater  has  been  acclaimed  internationally  for  its  stagings  (in 
Georgian)  of  the  works  of  William  Shakespeare  and  German 
dramatist  Bertolt  Brecht. 


185 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Education,  Health,  and  Welfare 

In  1992  Georgia  retained  the  basic  structure  of  education, 
health,  and  social  welfare  programs  established  in  the  Soviet 
era,  although  major  reforms  were  being  discussed.  Georgia's 
requests  for  aid  from  the  West  have  included  technical  assis- 
tance in  streamlining  its  social  welfare  system,  which  heavily 
burdens  the  economy  and  generally  fails  to  help  those  in  great- 
est need. 

Education 

In  the  Soviet  era,  the  Georgian  population  achieved  one  of 
the  highest  education  levels  in  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1989  some 
15.1  percent  of  adults  in  Georgia  had  graduated  from  a  univer- 
sity or  completed  some  other  form  of  higher  education.  About 
57.4  percent  had  completed  secondary  school  or  obtained  a 
specialized  secondary  education.  Georgia  also  had  an  extensive 
network  of  230  scientific  and  research  institutes  employing 
more  than  70,000  people  in  1990.  The  Soviet  system  of  free 
and  compulsory  schooling  had  eradicated  illiteracy  by  the 
1980s,  and  Georgia  had  the  Soviet  Union's  highest  percentage 
of  residents  with  a  higher  or  specialized  secondary  education. 

During  Soviet  rule,  the  CPSU  controlled  the  operation  of 
the  Georgian  education  system.  Theoretically,  education  was 
inseparable  from  politics,  and  the  schools  were  deemed  an 
important  tool  in  remaking  society  along  Marxist-Leninist 
lines.  Central  ministries  for  primary  and  secondary  education 
and  for  higher  and  specialized  education  transmitted  policy 
decisions  to  the  ministries  in  the  republics  for  implementation 
in  local  and  regional  systems.  Even  at  the  local  level,  most 
administrators  were  party  members.  The  combination  of  party 
organs  and  government  agencies  overseeing  education  at  all 
levels  formed  a  huge  bureaucracy  that  made  significant  reform 
impossible.  By  the  mid-1980s,  an  education  crisis  was  openly 
recognized  everywhere  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Soviet  education  institutions  were  still  in 
place  in  Georgia,  although  Soviet-style  political  propaganda 
and  authoritarian  teaching  methods  gradually  disappeared. 
Most  Georgian  children  attended  general  school  (grades  one 
to  eleven),  beginning  at  age  seven.  In  1988  some  86,400  stu- 
dents were  enrolled  in  Georgia's  nineteen  institutions  of 
higher  learning.  Universities  are  located  in  Batumi,  Kutaisi, 
Sukhumi,  and  Tbilisi.  In  the  early  1990s,  private  education 


186 


Elementary  school  children  in  English  class,  Children's  Palace,  Tbilisi 

Courtesy  Janet  A.  Koczak 

institutes  began  to  appear.  Higher  education  was  provided 
almost  exclusively  in  Georgian,  although  25  percent  of  general 
classes  were  taught  in  a  minority  language.  Abkhazian  and 
Ossetian  children  were  taught  in  their  native  language  until 
fifth  grade,  when  they  began  instruction  in  Georgian  or  Rus- 
sian. 

Health 

The  Soviet  system  of  health  care,  which  embraced  all  the 
republics,  included  extensive  networks  of  state-run  hospitals, 
clinics,  and  emergency  first  aid  stations.  The  huge  government 
health  bureaucracy  in  Moscow  set  basic  policies  for  the  entire 
country,  then  transmitted  them  to  the  health  ministries  of  the 
republics.  In  the  republics,  programs  were  set  up  by  regional 
and  local  health  authorities.  The  emphasis  was  on  meeting 
national  standards  and  quotas  for  patient  visits,  treatments  pro- 


187 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

vided,  and  hospital  beds  occupied,  with  little  consideration  of 
regional  differences  or  requirements. 

Under  this  system,  the  average  Georgian  would  go  first  to 
one  of  the  polyclinics  serving  all  the  residents  of  a  particular 
area.  In  the  mid-1980s,  polyclinics  provided  about  90  percent 
of  medical  care,  offering  very  basic  diagnostic  services.  In  addi- 
tion, most  workplaces  had  their  own  clinics,  which  minimized 
time  lost  from  work  for  medical  reasons.  The  hospital  system 
provided  more  complex  diagnosis  and  treatment,  although 
overcrowding  often  resulted  from  the  admission  of  patients 
with  minor  complaints.  Crowding  was  exacerbated  by  official 
standards  requiring  hospital  treatment  of  a  certain  duration 
for  every  type  of  complaint. 

The  Soviet  system  placed  special  emphasis  on  treatment  of 
women  and  children;  many  specialized  treatment,  diagnostic, 
and  advanced-study  centers  offered  pediatric,  obstetric,  and 
gynecological  care.  Maternity  services  and  prenatal  care  were 
readily  accessible.  Emergency  first  aid  was  provided  by  special- 
ized ambulance  teams,  most  of  which  had  only  very  basic 
equipment.  Severe  cases  went  to  special  emergency  hospitals 
because  regular  hospitals  lacked  emergency  rooms.  Although 
this  system  worked  efficiently  in  urban  centers  such  as  Tbilisi,  it 
did  not  reach  remote  areas.  Most  Georgians  cared  for  elderly 
family  members  at  home,  and  nursing  care  was  generally  medi- 
ocre. Georgian  health  spas  were  a  vital  part  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  well-known  sanatorium  system,  access  to  which  was  a 
privilege  of  employment  in  most  state  enterprises. 

When  the  Soviet  Union  dissolved,  it  left  a  legacy  of  health 
problems  to  the  respective  republics,  which  faced  the  necessity 
of  organizing  separate  health  systems  under  conditions  of 
scarce  resources.  By  1990  the  Soviet  health  system  had  become 
drastically  underfunded,  and  the  incidence  of  disease  and  acci- 
dents was  increased  by  poor  living  standards  and  environmen- 
tal hazards.  Nominally  equal  availability  of  medical  treatment 
and  materials  was  undermined  by  the  privileged  status  of  elite 
groups  that  had  access  to  the  country's  best  medical  facilities. 
In  1990  the  former  republics  also  differed  substantially  in 
health  conditions  and  availability  of  care  (see  table  2,  Appen- 
dix). Subsequent  membership  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Inde- 
pendent States,  to  which  Georgia  committed  itself  in  late  1993, 
did  not  affect  this  inequality. 

According  to  most  standard  indicators,  in  1991  the  health 
and  medical  care  of  the  Georgian  population  were  among  the 


188 


Georgia 


best  in  the  Soviet  Union.  The  rate  at  which  tuberculosis  was 
diagnosed,  28.9  cases  per  100,000  population  in  1990,  was  third 
lowest,  and  Georgia's  140.9  cancer  diagnoses  per  100,000  pop- 
ulation in  1990  was  the  lowest  rate  among  the  Soviet  republics. 
Georgia  also  led  in  physicians  per  capita,  with  59.2  per  10,000 
population,  and  in  dentists  per  capita.  However,  hospital  bed 
availability,  110.7  per  10,000  population  in  1990,  placed  Geor- 
gia in  the  bottom  half  among  Soviet  republics,  and  infant  mor- 
tality, 15.9  per  1,000  live  births  in  1990,  was  at  the  average  for 
republics  outside  Central  Asia. 

Although  illegal  drugs  were  available  and  Georgia  increas- 
ingly found  itself  on  the  international  drug-trading  route  in 
the  early  1990s,  the  drug  culture  was  confined  to  a  small  per- 
centage of  the  population.  The  relatively  high  rate  of  delin- 
quency among  Georgian  youth,  however,  was  frequently 
associated  with  alcohol  abuse. 

In  1993  the  Republic  AIDS  and  Immunodeficiency  Center  in 
Tbilisi  reported  that  sixteen  cases  of  acquired  immune  defi- 
ciency syndrome  (AIDS)  had  been  detected;  five  victims  were 
non-Georgians  and  were  deported.  Of  the  remaining  eleven, 
two  had  contracted  AIDS  through  drug  use  and  one  through  a 
medical  procedure.  Despite  the  small  number  of  cases,  the 
AIDS  epidemic  has  caused  considerable  alarm  in  the  Georgian 
medical  community,  which  formed  a  physicians'  anti-AIDS  asso- 
ciation in  1993.  The  AIDS  center,  located  in  a  makeshift  facility 
in  Tbilisi,  conducts  AIDS  research  and  oversees  testing  in 
twenty-nine  laboratories  throughout  Georgia,  stressing  efforts 
among  high-risk  groups. 

As  in  other  former  Soviet  republics,  Georgia  began  devising 
health  care  reform  strategies  in  1992.  Budget  expenditures  for 
health  increased  drastically  once  the  Soviet  welfare  system  col- 
lapsed. Theoretical  elements  of  Georgian  health  reform  were 
compulsory  medical  insurance,  privatization  and  foreign 
investment  in  institutions  providing  health  care,  and  stronger 
emphasis  on  preventive  medicine.  Little  progress  was  made  in 
the  first  two  years  of  the  reform  process,  however.  In  Georgia 
political  instability  and  civil  war  have  destroyed  medical  facili- 
ties while  increasing  the  need  for  emergency  care  and  creating 
a  large-scale  refugee  problem  (see  Threats  of  Fragmentation, 
this  ch.). 

Social  Security 

In  1985  some  47  percent  of  Georgia's  budget  went  to  sup- 


189 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

port  the  food,  health,  and  education  needs  of  the  population. 
Social  services  included  partial  payment  for  maternity  leave  for 
up  to  eighteen  months  and  unpaid  maternity  leave  for  up  to 
three  years.  State  pensions  were  automatic  after  twenty  years  of 
work  for  women  and  twenty-five  years  for  men.  As  inflation  rose 
in  the  postcommunist  era,  however,  a  large  percentage  of  older 
Georgians  continued  working  because  their  pensions  could 
not  support  them.  In  1991  the  social  security  fund — supported 
mainly  by  a  payroll  tax — provided  pensions  for  1.3  million  per- 
sons. The  fund  also  paid  benefits  for  sick  leave  and  rest  homes, 
as  well  as  allowances  for  families  with  young  children. 

In  1992  subsidies  were  in  place  for  basic  commodities,  pen- 
sions, unemployment  benefits,  and  allowances  for  single  moth- 
ers and  children.  At  that  time,  a  payroll  tax  of  3  percent  was 
designated  to  support  the  national  unemployment  fund.  Defi- 
cits in  the  social  security  fund  were  nominally  covered  by  the 
state  budget,  but  budget  shortfalls  elsewhere  shifted  that 
responsibility  to  the  banking  system.  In  1992  increased  benefit 
payments  and  the  decision  not  to  increase  the  payroll  tax 
eroded  the  financial  base  of  the  fund. 

The  Economy 

In  the  Soviet  period,  Georgia  played  an  important  role  in 
supplying  food  products  and  minerals  and  as  a  center  of  tour- 
ism for  the  centralized  state  economy.  However,  the  republic 
was  also  heavily  dependent  on  imports  to  provide  products  vital 
to  industrial  support.  In  the  post-Soviet  years,  the  Georgian 
economy  suffered  a  major  decline  because  sources  of  those 
products  were  no  longer  reliable  and  because  political  instabil- 
ity limited  the  economic  reorganization  and  foreign  invest- 
ment that  might  support  an  internationalized,  free-market 
economy.  The  net  material  product(NMP — see  Glossary) 
already  had  declined  by  5  percent  in  1989  and  by  12  percent  in 
1990,  after  growing  at  an  annual  rate  of  6  percent  between 
1971  and  1985.  In  late  1993,  Shevardnadze  reported  that  indus- 
trial production  had  declined  by  60.5  percent  in  1993  and  that 
the  annual  inflation  rate  had  reached  2,000  percent,  largely  as 
a  result  of  the  economic  disruption  caused  by  military  conflict 
within  Georgia's  borders. 

Conditions  in  the  Soviet  System 

Georgian  nationalists  contended  that  Georgia's  role  in  the 
"division  of  labor"  among  Soviet  republics  was  unfairly  assigned 


190 


Georgia 


and  that  other  republics,  especially  Russia,  benefited  from  the 
terms  of  trade  set  by  Moscow.  Georgian  manganese,  for  exam- 
ple, went  to  Soviet  steel  plants  at  an  extremely  low  price,  and 
Georgian  agricultural  goods  also  sold  at  very  low  prices  in 
other  republics.  At  the  same  time,  Georgia  paid  high  prices  for 
machinery  and  equipment  purchased  elsewhere  in  the  Soviet 
Union  and  in  Eastern  Europe.  Despite  Georgia's  popularity  as 
a  tourist  destination,  the  republic  reaped  few  benefits  because 
most  hard-currency  earnings  from  tourism  went  to  Moscow 
and  because  Soviet  tourists  paid  little  for  their  state-sponsored 
"vacation  packages."  Georgia  benefited,  however,  from  energy 
prices  that  were  far  below  world  market  levels. 

Despite  the  ambiguities  of  official  statistics,  all  evidence  indi- 
cates that  after  1989  Georgia  experienced  a  disastrous  drop  in 
industrial  output,  real  income,  consumption,  capital  invest- 
ment, and  virtually  every  other  economic  indicator.  For  exam- 
ple, official  statistics  showed  a  decline  in  nadonal  income  of  34 
percent  in  1992  from  1985  levels. 

Obstacles  to  Development 

Several  noneconomic  factors  influenced  the  broad  decline 
of  the  Georgian  economy  that  began  before  independence  was 
declared  in  1991.  National  liberation  leaders  used  strikes  in 
1989  and  1990  to  gain  political  concessions  from  the  commu- 
nist leadership;  a  1990  railroad  strike,  for  instance,  paralyzed 
most  of  the  Georgian  economy.  In  1991  the  Gamsakhurdia  gov- 
ernment ordered  strikes  at  enterprises  subordinated  to  minis- 
tries in  Moscow  as  a  protest  against  Soviet  interference  in 
South  Ossetia  (see  Ethnic  Minorities,  this  ch.). 

Although  combat  in  Georgia  in  the  period  after  1991  left 
most  of  the  republic  unscathed,  the  economy  suffered  greatly 
from  military  action.  Railroad  transport  between  Georgia  and 
Russia  was  disrupted  severely  in  1992  and  1993  because  most 
lines  from  Russia  passed  through  regions  of  severe  political 
unrest.  Georgia's  natural  gas  pipeline  to  the  north  entered  Rus- 
sia through  South  Osseda  and  thus  was  subject  to  attack  during 
the  ethnic  war  that  began  in  that  region  in  late  1990.  In  west- 
ern Georgia,  Gamsakhurdia's  forces  and  Abkhazian  separatists 
often  stopped  trains  or  blew  up  bridges  in  1992.  As  a  result, 
supplies  could  only  enter  Georgia  through  the  Black  Sea  ports 
of  Poti  and  Batumi  or  over  a  circuitous  route  from  Russia 
through  Azerbaijan. 


191 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

In  both  the  Soviet  and  the  post-Soviet  periods,  conflicts 
between  Georgia  and  Moscow  broke  many  vital  links  in  the 
republic's  economy.  Official  1988  data  showed  imports  to  Geor- 
gia from  other  republics  of  more  than  5.2  billion  rubles  and 
exports  of  more  than  5.5  billion  rubles.  As  a  result  of  Gamsa- 
khurdia's  policies,  goods  destined  for  Russia  were  withheld  by 
Georgian  officials.  The  Soviet  leadership,  encouraged  by  con- 
servative provincial  leaders  in  the  Russian  regions  bordering 
Georgia,  responded  with  their  own  partial  economic  blockade 
of  Georgia  in  late  1990  and  1991.  All-union  enterprises  in 
Georgia  stopped  receiving  most  of  their  supplies  from  outside 
the  republic.  The  strangling  of  energy  resources  forced  much 
of  Georgian  industry  to  shut  down  in  1991. 

The  Underground  Economy 

Economic  statistics  for  Georgia  are  difficult  to  evaluate  for 
both  the  Soviet  era  and  the  post-Soviet  period,  primarily 
because  of  the  country's  large  underground  economy.  Tradi- 
tional Georgian  familial  and  clan  relations  have  intensified  the 
economic  corruption  that  infused  the  entire  communist  sys- 
tem. Local  elites  in  the  communist  party  joined  with  under- 
ground speculators  and  entrepreneurs  to  form  an  economic 
mafia.  Repeated  efforts  to  eradicate  this  phenomenon,  includ- 
ing an  aggressive  effort  by  Shevardnadze  in  the  early  1970s, 
apparently  had  little  impact.  In  the  postcommunist  period, 
struggles  for  economic  control  among  competing  mafias  have 
been  an  important  part  of  the  political  conflict  plaguing  Geor- 
gia. 

Wages  and  Prices 

Until  1991  Georgia's  price  system  and  inflation  rate  gener- 
ally coincided  with  those  of  the  other  Soviet  republics.  Under 
central  planning,  prices  of  state  enterprise  products  were  fixed 
by  direct  regulation,  fixed  markup  rates,  or  negotiation  at  the 
wholesale  level,  with  subsequent  sanction  by  state  authority. 
The  prices  of  agricultural  products  from  the  private  sector  fluc- 
tuated freely  in  the  Soviet  system. 

Once  it  forsook  the  artificial  conditions  of  the  Soviet  system, 
Georgia  faced  the  necessity  for  major  changes  in  its  pricing  pol- 
icy. Following  the  political  upheaval  of  late  1991,  which  delayed 
price  adjustments,  the  Georgian  government  raised  the  prices 
of  basic  commodities  substantially  in  early  1992,  to  match 
adjustments  made  in  most  of  the  other  former  Soviet  republics. 


192 


Jewelry-making  and  gun-repair  stand  in  Tbilisi 
Courtesy  A.  James  Firth,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 


The  price  of  bread,  for  example,  rose  from  0.4  ruble  to  4.8 
rubles  per  kilogram.  By  the  end  of  1992,  all  prices  except  those 
for  bread,  fuel,  and  transportation  had  been  liberalized  in 
order  to  avoid  distortions  and  shortages.  This  policy  brought 
steep  inflation  rates  throughout  1993. 

Beginning  in  1991,  a  severe  shortage  of  ruble  notes 
restricted  enterprises  from  acquiring  enough  currency  to  pre- 
vent a  significant  drop  in  real  wages.  In  early  1992,  public-sec- 
tor wages  were  doubled,  and  every  Georgian  received  an 
additional  40  rubles  per  month  to  compensate  for  the  rising 
cost  of  living.  Such  compensatory  increases  were  far  below 
those  in  other  former  Soviet  republics,  however.  In  1992  the 
Shevardnadze  government  considered  wage  indexing  or  regu- 
lar adjustment  of  benefits  to  the  lowest  wage  groups  as  a  way  of 
improving  the  public's  buying  power. 


193 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

In  mid-1993  the  majority  of  Georgians  still  depended  on 
state  enterprises  for  their  salaries,  but  in  most  cases  some  form 
of  private  income  was  necessary  to  live  above  the  poverty  level. 
Private  jobs  paid  substantially  more  than  state  jobs,  and  the  dis- 
crepancy grew  larger  in  1993.  For  example,  in  1993  a  secretary 
in  a  private  company  earned  the  equivalent  of  US$30  per 
month,  while  a  state  university  professor  made  the  equivalent 
of  US$4  per  month. 

Banking,  the  Budget,  and  the  Currency 

In  the  spring  of  1991,  Georgian  banks  ended  their  relation- 
ship with  parent  banks  in  Moscow.  The  National  Bank  of  Geor- 
gia was  created  in  mid-1991  as  an  independent  central  national 
bank;  its  main  function  was  to  ensure  the  stability  of  the 
national  currency,  and  it  was  not  responsible  for  obligations 
incurred  by  the  government.  The  National  Bank  also  assumed 
all  debts  of  Georgian  banks  to  the  state  banks  in  Moscow. 

In  1992  the  national  system  included  five  specialized  govern- 
ment commercial  banks  and  sixty  private  commercial  banks. 
The  five  government-owned  commercial  banks  provided  95 
percent  of  bank  credit  going  to  the  economy.  They  included 
the  Agricultural  and  Industrial  Bank  of  Georgia,  the  Housing 
Bank  of  Georgia,  and  the  Bank  for  Industry  and  Construction, 
which  were  the  main  sources  of  financing  for  state  enterprises 
during  this  period.  Private  commercial  banks,  which  began 
operation  in  1989,  grew  rapidly  in  1991-92  because  of  favor- 
able interest  rates;  new  banking  laws  were  passed  in  1991  to 
cover  their  activity. 

Under  communist  rule,  transfers  from  the  Soviet  national 
budget  had  enabled  Georgia  to  show  a  budget  surplus  in  most 
years.  When  the  Soviet  contribution  of  751  million  rubles — 
over  5  percent  of  Georgia's  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see 
Glossary) — became  unavailable  in  1991,  the  Georgian  govern- 
ment ran  a  budget  deficit  estimated  at  around  2  billion  rubles. 
The  destruction  of  government  records  during  the  Tbilisi  hos- 
tilities of  late  1991  left  the  new  government  lacking  reliable 
information  on  which  to  base  financial  policy  for  1992  and 
beyond  (see  After  Communist  Rule,  this  ch.) . 

In  1992  the  government  assumed  an  additional  2  billion  to  3 
billion  rubles  of  unpaid  debts  from  state  enterprises,  raising 
the  deficit  to  between  17  and  21  percent  of  GDP  (see  table  17, 
Appendix).  By  May  1992,  when  the  State  Council  approved  a 
new  tax  system,  the  budget  deficit  was  estimated  at  6  billion  to 


194 


Georgia 


7  billion  rubles.  The  deficit  was  exacerbated  by  military  expen- 
ditures associated  with  the  conflicts  in  South  Ossetia  and  Ab- 
khazia and  by  the  cost  of  dealing  with  natural  disasters. 

The  1992  budget  was  restricted  by  a  delay  in  the  broadening 
of  the  country's  tax  base,  the  cost  of  assuming  defense  and 
security  expenses  formerly  paid  by  the  Soviet  Union,  the  dou- 
bling of  state  wages,  and  the  cost  of  earthquake  relief  in  the 
north.  When  the  1993  budget  was  proposed,  only  11  billion  of 
the  prescribed  43.6  billion  rubles  of  expenditures  were  covered 
by  revenues. 

Tax  reform  in  early  1992  added  an  excise  tax  on  selected 
luxury  items  and  a  flat-rate  value-added  tax  (VAT — see  Glos- 
sary) on  most  goods  and  services,  while  abolishing  the  turn- 
over and  sales  taxes  of  the  communist  system.  In  1992  tax 
revenues  fell  below  the  expected  level,  however,  because  of 
noncompliance  with  new  tax  requirements;  a  government 
study  showed  that  80  percent  of  businesses  underpaid  their 
taxes  in  1992. 

In  early  1993,  Georgia  remained  in  the  "ruble  zone,"  still 
using  the  Russian  ruble  as  the  official  national  currency.  Efforts 
begun  in  1991  to  establish  a  separate  currency  convertible  on 
world  markets  were  frustrated  by  political  and  economic  insta- 
bility. Beginning  in  August  1993,  the  Central  Bank  of  Russia 
began  withdrawing  ruble  banknotes;  a  new  unit,  designated 
the  coupon  (for  value  of  the  coupon — see  Glossary),  became 
the  official  national  currency  after  several  months  of  provi- 
sional status.  Rubles  and  United  States  dollars  continued  to  cir- 
culate widely,  however,  especially  in  large  transactions.  After 
the  National  Bank  of  Georgia  had  established  weekly  exchange 
rates  for  two  months,  the  coupon's  exchange  rate  against  the 
United  States  dollar  inflated  from  5,569  to  12,629.  In  Septem- 
ber all  salaries  were  doubled,  setting  off  a  new  round  of  infla- 
tion. By  October  the  rate  had  reached  42,000  coupons  to  the 
dollar. 

Industry 

In  1990  about  20  percent  of  Georgia's  1,029  industrial  enter- 
prises, including  the  largest,  were  directly  administered  by  the 
central  ministries  of  the  Soviet  Union.  Until  1991  Georgian 
industry  was  integrated  with  the  rest  of  the  Soviet  economy. 
About  90  percent  of  the  raw  materials  used  by  Georgian  light 
industry  came  from  outside  the  republic.  The  Transcaucasian 
Metallurgical  Plant  at  Rustavi  and  the  Kutaisi  Automotive 


195 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Works,  as  well  as  other  centers  of  heavy  industry,  depended 
heavily  on  commercial  agreements  with  the  other  Soviet  repub- 
lics. The  Rustavi  plant,  for  example,  could  not  operate  without 
importing  iron  ore,  most  of  which  it  received  (and  continues  to 
receive)  from  Azerbaijan.  The  Kutaisi  works  depended  on 
other  republics  for  raw  materials,  machinery,  and  spare  parts. 
Georgia  contributed  significantly  to  Soviet  mineral  output,  par- 
ticularly of  manganese  (a  component  of  steel  alloy  found  in 
the  Chiatura  and  Kutaisi  regions  in  west-central  Georgia)  and 
copper. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Georgia's  main  industrial  products  were 
machine  tools,  prefabricated  building  structures,  cast  iron, 
steel  pipe,  synthetic  ammonia,  and  silk  thread.  Georgian  refin- 
eries also  processed  gasoline  and  diesel  fuel  from  imported 
crude  oil.  Georgian  industry  made  its  largest  contributions  to 
the  Soviet  Union's  total  industrial  production  in  wool  fabric, 
chemical  fibers,  rolled  ferrous  metals,  and  metal-cutting 
machine  tools  (see  table  18,  Appendix). 

Energy  Resources 

The  lack  of  significant  domestic  fuel  reserves  made  the 
Georgian  economy  extremely  dependent  on  neighboring 
republics,  especially  Russia,  to  meet  its  energy  needs.  Under 
the  fuel  supply  conditions  of  1994,  only  further  exploitation  of 
hydroelectric  power  could  enhance  energy  self-sufficiency.  In 
1990  over  95  percent  of  Georgia's  fuel  was  imported.  For  that 
reason,  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  1991  caused  an 
energy  crisis  and  stimulated  a  search  for  alternative  suppliers. 

The  harsh  winter  of  1991-92  increased  fuel  demand  at  a 
time  when  supply  was  especially  limited.  Oil  imports  were 
reduced  by  the  conflict  between  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  cold 
weather  curtailed  domestic  hydroelectric  production,  and  the 
price  of  fuel  and  energy  imports  from  other  former  Soviet 
republics  rose  drastically  because  of  Georgia's  independent 
political  stance  and  the  new  economic  realities  throughout  the 
former  union.  Beginning  in  December  1991,  industries 
received  only  about  one-third  of  the  energy  needed  for  full- 
scale  operation,  and  most  operated  far  below  capacity  through- 
out 1992. 

Small  amounts  of  oil  were  discovered  in  the  Samgori  region 
(southern  Georgia)  in  the  1930s  and  in  eastern  Georgia  in  the 
1970s,  but  no  oil  exploration  has  occurred  in  most  of  the 
republic.  In  1993  some  96  percent  of  Georgia's  oil  came  from 


196 


Hydroelectric  station  on  Georgian  Military 
Highway  between  Tbilisi  and  Mtskheta 

Azerbaijan  and  Russia,  although  new  supply  agreements  had 
been  reached  with  Iran  and  Turkey.  Oil  and  gas  pipelines  con- 
nect Georgia  with  Azerbaijan,  Armenia,  Russia,  and  Turkmeni- 
stan. Refinery  and  storage  facilities  in  Batumi  receive  oil 
through  a  long  pipeline  from  Baku  in  Azerbaijan. 

Coal  is  mined  in  Abkhazia  and  near  Kutaisi,  but  between 
1976  and  1991  output  fell  nearly  50  percent,  to  about  1  million 
tons.  The  largest  deposits,  both  of  which  are  in  Abkhazia,  are 
estimated  to  contain  250  million  tons  and  80  million  tons, 
respectively.  Domestic  coal  provides  half  the  Rustavi  plant's 
needs  and  fuels  some  electrical  power  generation.  In  1993  nat- 
ural gas,  nearly  all  of  which  was  imported,  accounted  for  44 
percent  of  fuel  consumption. 

Georgia  has  substantial  hydroelectric  potential,  only  14  per- 
cent of  which  was  in  use  in  1993  in  a  network  of  small  hydro- 
electric stations.  In  1993  all  but  eight  of  Georgia's  seventy-two 
power  stations  were  hydroelectric,  but  together  they  provided 
only  half  the  republic's  energy  needs.  In  the  early  1990s,  Geor- 
gia's total  consumption  of  electrical  energy  exceeded  domestic 
generation  by  as  much  as  30  percent.  Georgian  planners  see 
further  hydroelectric  development  as  the  best  domestic  solu- 
tion to  the  country's  power  shortage. 


197 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
Agriculture 

Georgia's  climate  and  soil  have  made  agriculture  one  of  its 
most  productive  economic  sectors;  the  18  percent  of  Georgian 
land  that  is  arable  provided  32  percent  of  the  republic's  NMP 
in  1990.  In  the  Soviet  period,  swampy  areas  in  the  west  were 
drained,  and  arid  regions  in  the  east  were  salvaged  by  a  com- 
plex irrigation  system,  allowing  Georgian  agriculture  to 
expand  production  tenfold  between  1918  and  1980.  Produc- 
tion was  hindered  in  the  Soviet  period,  however,  by  the  misallo- 
cation  of  agricultural  land  (for  example,  the  assignment  of 
prime  grain  fields  to  tea  cultivation)  and  excessive  specializa- 
tion. Georgia's  emphasis  on  labor-intensive  crops  such  as  tea 
and  grapes  kept  the  rural  work  force  at  an  unsatisfactory  level 
of  productivity.  Some  25  percent  of  the  Georgian  work  force 
was  engaged  in  agriculture  in  1990;  37  percent  had  been  so 
engaged  in  1970  (see  table  19,  Appendix).  In  the  spring  of 
1993,  sowing  of  spring  crops  was  reduced  by  one-third  on  state 
land  and  by  a  substantial  amount  on  private  land  as  well 
because  of  fuel  and  equipment  shortages.  For  the  first  half  of 
1993,  overall  agricultural  production  was  35  percent  less  than 
for  the  same  period  of  1992. 

Land  Redistribution 

Until  the  land-privatization  program  that  began  in  1992, 
most  Georgian  farms  were  state-run  collectives  averaging  428 
hectares  in  size.  Even  under  Soviet  rule,  however,  Georgia  had 
a  vigorous  private  agricultural  sector.  In  1990,  according  to  offi- 
cial statistics,  the  private  sector  contributed  46  percent  of  gross 
agricultural  output,  and  private  productivity  averaged  about 
twice  that  of  the  state  farms  (see  table  20,  Appendix).  Under 
the  state  system,  designated  plots  were  leased  to  farmers  and 
town  dwellers  for  private  crop  and  livestock  raising.  As  during 
the  Soviet  era,  more  than  half  of  Georgia's  meat  and  milk  and 
nearly  half  of  its  eggs  came  from  private  producers. 

As  was  the  case  with  enterprise  privatization,  Gamsakhurdia 
postponed  systematic  land  reform  because  he  feared  that  local 
mafias  would  dominate  the  redistribution  process.  But  within 
weeks  of  his  ouster  in  early  1992,  the  new  government  issued  a 
land  reform  resolution  providing  land  grants  of  one-half  hect- 
are to  individuals  with  the  stipulation  that  the  land  be  farmed. 
Commissions  were  established  in  each  village  to  inventory  land 
parcels  and  identify  those  to  be  privatized.  Limitations  were 
placed  on  what  the  new  "owners"  could  do  with  their  land,  and 


198 


Georgia 


would-be  private  farmers  faced  serious  problems  in  obtaining 
seeds,  fertilizer,  and  equipment.  By  the  end  of  1993,  over  half 
the  cultivated  land  was  in  private  hands.  Small  plots  were  given 
free  to  city  dwellers  to  relieve  the  acute  food  shortage  that  year. 

Crop  Distribution 

In  1993  about  85  percent  of  cultivated  land,  excluding 
orchards,  vineyards,  and  tea  plantations,  was  dedicated  to 
grains.  Within  that  category,  corn  grew  on  40  percent  of  the 
land,  and  winter  wheat  on  37  percent.  The  second  most  impor- 
tant agricultural  product  is  wine.  Georgia  has  one  of  the 
world's  oldest  and  finest  winemaking  traditions;  archaeological 
findings  indicate  that  wine  was  being  made  in  Georgia  as  early 
as  300  B.C.  Some  forty  major  wineries  were  operating  in  1990, 
and  about  500  types  of  local  wines  were  made.  The  center  of 
the  wine  industry  is  Kakhetia  in  eastern  Georgia.  Georgia  is 
also  known  for  the  high  quality  of  its  mineral  waters. 

Other  important  crops  are  tea,  citrus  fruits,  and  noncitrus 
fruits,  which  account  for  18.3  percent,  7.7  percent,  and  8.4  per- 
cent of  Georgia's  agricultural  output,  respectively.  Cultivation 
of  tea  and  citrus  fruits  is  confined  to  the  western  coastal  area. 
Tea  accounts  for  36  percent  of  the  output  of  the  large  food- 
processing  industry,  although  the  quality  of  Georgian  tea 
dropped  perceptibly  under  Soviet  management  in  the  1970s 
and  1980s.  Animal  husbandry,  mainly  the  keeping  of  cattle, 
pigs,  and  sheep,  accounts  for  about  25  percent  of  Georgia's 
agricultural  output,  although  high  density  and  low  mechaniza- 
tion have  hindered  efficiency. 

Until  1991  other  Soviet  republics  bought  95  percent  of  Geor- 
gia's processed  tea,  62  percent  of  its  wine,  and  70  percent  of  its 
canned  goods  (see  table  21;  table  22,  Appendix).  In  turn, 
Georgia  depended  on  Russia  for  75  percent  of  its  grain.  One- 
third  of  Georgia's  meat  and  60  percent  of  its  dairy  products 
were  supplied  from  outside  the  republic.  Failure  to  adjust  these 
relationships  contributed  to  Georgia's  food  crises  in  the  early 
1990s. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Georgia's  location  makes  it  an  important  commercial  transit 
route,  and  the  country  inherited  a  well-developed  transporta- 
tion system  when  it  became  independent  in  1991.  However, 
lack  of  money  and  political  unrest  have  cut  into  the  system's 
maintenance  and  allowed  it  to  deteriorate  somewhat  since 


199 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

independence.  Fighting  in  and  around  the  secessionist  Abkha- 
zian Autonomous  Republic  in  the  northwest  has  isolated  that 
area  and  also  has  cut  some  of  the  principal  rail  and  highway 
links  between  Georgia  and  Russia. 

In  1990  Georgia  had  35,100  kilometers  of  roads,  31,200  kilo- 
meters of  which  were  paved  (see  fig.  15).  Since  the  nineteenth 
century,  Tbilisi  has  been  the  center  of  the  Caucasus  region's 
highway  system,  a  position  reinforced  during  the  Soviet  era. 
The  country's  four  principal  highways  radiate  from  Tbilisi 
roughly  in  the  four  cardinal  directions.  Route  M27  extends 
west  from  the  capital  through  the  broad  valley  between  the 
country's  two  main  mountain  ranges  and  reaches  the  Black  Sea 
south  of  Sukhumi.  The  highway  then  turns  northwest  along 
the  Black  Sea  to  the  Russian  border.  A  secondary  road,  Route 
A305,  branches  off  Route  M27  and  carries  traffic  to  the  port  of 
Poti.  Another  secondary  road  runs  south  along  the  Black  Sea 
coast  from  Poti  to  the  port  of  Batumi.  From  Batumi  a  short 
spur  of  about  ten  kilometers  is  Georgia's  only  paved  connec- 
tion with  Turkey. 

Route  A301,  more  commonly  known  as  the  Georgian  Mili- 
tary Highway,  runs  north  from  Tbilisi  across  the  Greater  Cauca- 
sus range  to  Russia.  The  route  was  first  described  by  Greek 
geographers  in  the  first  century  B.C.  and  was  the  only  land 
route  north  into  Russia  until  the  late  1800s.  The  route  contains 
many  hairpin  turns  and  winds  through  several  passes  higher 
than  2,000  meters  in  elevation  before  reaching  the  Russian 
border.  Heavy  snows  in  winter  often  close  the  road  for  short 
periods.  The  country's  other  two  main  highways  connect  Tbilisi 
with  the  neighboring  Transcaucasian  countries.  Route  A310 
runs  south  to  Erevan,  and  Route  A302  extends  east  across  a 
lower  portion  of  the  Greater  Caucasus  range  to  Azerbaijan.  All 
major  routes  have  regular  and  frequent  bus  transport. 

Georgia  had  1,421  kilometers  of  rail  lines  in  1993,  excluding 
several  small  industrial  lines.  In  the  early  1990s,  most  lines  were 
1.520-meter  broad  gauge,  and  the  principal  routes  were  electri- 
fied. The  tsarist  government  built  the  first  rail  links  in  the 
region  from  Baku  on  the  Caspian  Sea  through  Tbilisi  to  Poti 
on  the  Black  Sea  in  1883;  this  route  remains  the  principal  rail 
route  of  Transcaucasia.  Along  the  Black  Sea,  a  rail  route 
extends  from  the  main  east-west  line  into  Russia,  and  two  lines 
run  south  from  Tbilisi — one  to  Armenia  and  the  other  to  Azer- 
baijan. Spurs  link  these  main  routes  with  smaller  towns  in 
Georgia's  broad  central  valley.  Principal  classification  yards  and 


200 


Georgia 


rail  repair  services  are  in  Batumi  and  Tbilisi.  Most  rail  lines 
provide  passenger  service,  but  in  1994  international  passenger 
service  was  limited  to  the  Tbilisi-to-Baku  train.  Because  of  fight- 
ing in  Abkhazia,  freight  and  passenger  service  to  Russia  has 
been  suspended,  with  only  the  section  from  Tbilisi  to  the  port 
of  Poti  still  operative.  Service  on  the  Tbilisi-to-Erevan  line  has 
also  been  disrupted  because  the  tracks  pass  through  the  area  of 
armed  conflict  between  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan. 

Tbilisi  was  one  of  the  first  cities  of  the  Soviet  Union  to  have  a 
subway  system.  The  system  consists  of  twenty-three  kilometers 
of  heavy  rail  lines,  most  of  which  are  underground.  Three  lines 
with  twenty  stations  radiate  from  downtown,  with  extensions 
either  planned  or  under  construction  in  1994.  The  system  is 
heavily  used,  and  trains  run  at  least  every  four  minutes 
throughout  the  day.  In  1985,  the  last  year  of  available  statistics, 
145  million  passengers  were  carried,  about  the  same  number 
of  passengers  that  used  Washington,  D.C.'s  Metrorail  system  in 
1992. 

Georgia's  principal  airport,  Novoalekseyevka,  is  about  eigh- 
teen kilometers  northeast  of  downtown  Tbilisi.  With  a  runway 
approximately  2,500  meters  long,  the  airport  can  accommo- 
date airplanes  as  large  as  the  Russian  Tu-154,  the  Boeing  72V, 
and  the  McDonnell  Douglas  DC-9.  In  1993  the  airport  han- 
dled about  26,000  tons  of  freight.  Orbis,  the  new  state-run  air- 
line, provides  service  to  neighboring  countries,  flights  to 
several  destinations  throughout  Russia,  and  direct  service  to 
some  European  capitals.  Between  1991  and  1993,  fuel  short- 
ages severely  curtailed  air  passenger  and  cargo  service,  how- 
ever. Eighteen  other  airports  throughout  the  country  have 
paved  runways,  but  most  are  used  for  minor  freight  transport. 

Georgia's  Black  Sea  ports  provide  access  to  the  Mediterra- 
nean Sea  via  the  Bosporus.  Georgia  has  two  principal  ports,  at 
Poti  and  Batumi,  and  a  minor  port  at  Sukhumi.  Although 
Batumi  has  a  natural  harbor,  Poti's  man-made  harbor  carries 
more  cargo  because  of  that  city's  rail  links  to  Tbilisi.  The  port 
at  Poti  can  handle  ships  having  up  to  ten  meters  draught  and 
30,000  tons  in  weight.  Altogether,  nine  berths  can  process  as 
much  as  100,000  tons  of  general  cargo,  4  million  tons  of  bulk 
cargo,  and  1  million  tons  of  grain  per  year.  Facilities  include 
tugboats,  equipment  for  unloading  tankers,  a  grain  elevator, 
22,000  square  meters  of  covered  storage  area,  and  57,000 
square  meters  of  open  storage  area.  Direct  onloading  of  con- 
tainers to  rail  cars  is  available.  The  port  primarily  handles 


201 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Figure  15.  Transportation  System  of  Georgia,  1994 

imports  of  general  cargo  and  exports  of  grain,  coal,  and  ores. 
Poti  is  ice-free,  but  in  winter  strong  west  winds  can  make  entry 
into  the  port  hazardous. 

Batumi's  natural  port  is  located  on  a  bay  just  northeast  of  the 
city.  Eight  alongside  berths  have  a  total  capacity  of  100,000  tons 
of  general  cargo,  800,000  tons  of  bulk  cargo,  and  6  million  tons 
of  petroleum  products.  Facilities  include  portal  cranes,  loaders 
for  moving  containers  onto  rail  cars,  5,400  square  meters  of 
covered  storage,  and  13,700  square  meters  of  open  storage. 
The  port  lies  at  the  end  of  the  Transcaucasian  pipeline  from 
Baku  and  is  used  primarily  for  the  export  of  petroleum  and 
petroleum  products.  The  port's  location  provides  some  protec- 
tion from  the  winds  that  buffet  Poti.  However,  strong  winds  can 


202 


Georgia 


cause  dangerous  currents  in  the  port  area,  forcing  ships  to 
remain  offshore  until  conditions  improve. 

Sukhumi,  capital  of  the  Abkhazian  Autonomous  Republic,  is 
a  small  port  that  handles  limited  amounts  of  cargo,  passenger 
ferries,  and  cruise  ships.  Imports  consist  mostly  of  building 
materials,  and  the  port  handles  exports  of  local  agricultural 
products,  mostly  fruit.  Strong  westerly  and  southwesterly  winds 
make  the  port  virtually  unusable  for  long  periods  in  the 
autumn  and  winter.  Sukhumi  has  been  unavailable  to  Georgia 
since  Georgian  forces  abandoned  the  city  during  the  conflict 
of  the  autumn  of  1993. 

In  1992  Georgia  had  370  kilometers  of  crude  oil  pipeline, 
300  kilometers  of  pipeline  for  refined  petroleum  products,  and 
440  kilometers  of  natural  gas  pipeline.  Batumi  is  the  terminus 
of  a  major  oil  pipeline  that  transports  petroleum  from  Baku 
across  the  Caucasus  for  export.  Two  natural  gas  pipelines 
roughly  parallel  the  route  of  the  oil  pipeline  from  Baku  to 
Tbilisi  before  veering  north  along  the  Georgian  Military  High- 
way to  Russia.  Pipelines  are  generally  high-capacity  lines  and 
have  a  diameter  of  either  1,020  or  1,220  millimeters. 

Historically,  Georgia  was  an  important  point  on  the  Silk 
Road  linking  China  with  Europe.  Since  independence  Geor- 
gians have  discussed  resuming  this  role  by  turning  the  republic 
into  a  modern  transportation  and  communications  hub.  Such 
a  plan  might  also  make  the  republic  a  "dry  Suez"  for  the  trans- 
shipment of  Iranian  oil  west  across  the  Caucasus. 

In  1991  about  672,000  telephone  lines  were  in  use,  provid- 
ing twelve  lines  per  100  persons.  The  waiting  list  for  telephone 
installation  was  quite  long  in  the  early  1990s.  Georgia  is  linked 
to  the  CIS  countries  and  Turkey  by  overland  lines,  and  one  low- 
capacity  satellite  earth  station  is  in  operation.  Three  television 
stations,  including  the  independent  Iberia  Television,  and 
numerous  radio  stations  broadcast  in  Georgian  and  Russian. 

Economic  Reform 

Like  all  the  former  Soviet  republics,  Georgia  recognized  the 
need  to  restructure  its  economic  system  in  the  early  1990s, 
using  national  economic  strengths  to  accommodate  its  own 
needs  rather  than  the  needs  of  central  planners  in  Moscow. 
The  road  to  reform  has  been  full  of  obstacles,  however:  poor 
political  leadership,  the  economic  decline  that  began  in  the 
1980s,  civil  war,  and  a  well-established  underground  economy 
that  is  difficult  to  control. 


203 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 
Price  Policy 

Gamsakhurdia  understood  little  about  economics,  and  he 
postponed  major  economic  reforms  to  avoid  weakening  his 
political  position.  In  an  effort  to  maintain  popular  support,  he 
stabilized  fares  for  public  transportation  and  prices  for  basic 
consumer  goods  in  state  retail  outlets  (see  table  22,  Appendix). 
In  March  1991,  a  new  rationing  system  bound  local  residents  to 
neighborhood  shops.  In  April  1991,  price  controls  were 
imposed  in  state  stores.  Price  liberalization  began  only  after 
Gamsakhurdia's  departure  as  president,  and  it  did  not  cover 
several  basic  consumer  goods  and  services.  Continued  food 
subsidies  were  an  additional  factor  contributing  to  the  national 
budget  deficit.  In  the  interest  of  stimulating  competition,  a 
government  decree  removed  restrictions  on  trade  in  May  1992, 
and  at  the  same  time  taxes  were  eliminated  on  goods  brought 
into  Georgia.  Persistent  shortages  of  bread  led  the  government 
to  introduce  ration  cards  for  bread  in  December  1992.  Under 
these  conditions,  inflation  soared  in  private  markets  in  1991- 
92,  although  prices  remained  substantially  lower  than  in  Mos- 
cow for  similar  items. 

In  1993  wholesale  prices  increased  especially  quickly  under 
the  influence  of  falling  productivity.  In  the  second  half  of  1993, 
the  construction  industry  was  hit  hard  by  material  cost 
increases  of  up  to  thirty  times,  although  gasoline  prices  rose 
only  gradually.  The  prices  of  heavy  engineering  and  ferrous- 
metallurgy  products  rose  by  three  to  five  times  in  the  second 
half  of  1993. 

Enterprise  Privatization 

Another  key  element  of  economic  reform,  privatization  of 
state  enterprises,  was  stifled  under  Gamsakhurdia.  He  feared 
that  the  "economic  mafia,"  which  already  owned  a  significant 
share  of  the  nation's  wealth,  would  use  that  wealth  to  accumu- 
late state  assets.  Rapid  growth  had  already  occurred  in  the  pri- 
vate retail  sector,  however,  once  cooperative  enterprises  began 
expanding  in  1988.  In  1990-91  privately  run  "commercial 
shops"  began  proliferating,  often  in  place  of  state  stores.  Typi- 
cally, these  shops  offered  consumer  goods  brought  from  Tur- 
key and  resold  at  very  high  prices.  The  Law  on  Privatization  of 
State  Enterprises  was  adopted  in  August  1991  to  outline  gen- 
eral principles,  and  the  Committee  on  Privatization  was  estab- 
lished in  1992.  Under  Shevardnadze,  privatization  began 
cautiously  in  August  1992  when  the  State  Council  adopted  the 


204 


Georgia 


State  Program  on  the  Privatization  of  State  Enterprises.  The 
law  copied  Russia's  approach  to  privatization  by  providing  for 
several  methods,  including  "popular  privatization,"  consisting 
of  a  combination  of  vouchers  distributed  to  the  public  and  auc- 
tions of  state  enterprises.  The  country's  political  crises  delayed 
meaningful  measures,  however.  By  1993  few  Georgian  indus- 
tries had  been  privatized,  although  large  numbers  of  small 
enterprises  were  scheduled  for  privatization  in  1993  and  1994. 

Foreign  Trade 

In  the  Soviet  period,  Georgian  trade  with  the  world  outside 
the  Soviet  Union  was  severely  restricted  by  Moscow's  foreign 
economic  policy  (see  table  23,  Appendix).  Almost  all  of  Geor- 
gian foreign  economic  activity  was  conducted  by  fourteen  cen- 
tral enterprises,  most  of  which  operated  under  the  direct 
management  of  Moscow.  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia,  Germany, 
Japan,  and  Poland  were  among  the  most  important  of  Geor- 
gia's trading  partners  (see  table  24,  Appendix).  Gamsakhurdia, 
suspicious  of  businessmen  who  sought  to  export  Georgian 
goods,  banned  all  export  activity.  The  Shevardnadze  govern- 
ment, however,  created  conditions  for  significant  improvement 
of  international  investment  and  trade.  In  May  1992,  licensing 
requirements  for  import  or  export  activities  were  dropped 
except  for  the  import  of  goods  in  the  military  and  in  medical 
categories.  This  change  represented  a  significant  expansion  of 
the  rights  of  enterprises  to  engage  in  foreign  economic  activity. 
Export  of  twelve  commodities,  mostly  foodstuffs,  was  still  pro- 
hibited at  the  end  of  1992.  Fees  and  other  restrictions  on  the 
registration  of  joint  ventures  were  removed,  and  the  state  tax 
on  all  imports  was  canceled.  Import  duties  ranged  from  5  to  55 
percent,  and  export  duties  from  5  to  90  percent,  with  an 
exemption  for  former  Soviet  republics;  the  VAT  on  exports 
dropped  to  14  percent  in  late  1992.  The  National  Bank  of 
Georgia  imposed  a  tax  of  12  percent  on  exporters'  hard-cur- 
rency earnings.  In  early  1993,  new  trade  policies  had  not  led  to 
major  increases  in  foreign  trade  and  investment.  Continued 
political  instability,  ethnic  warfare,  and  extremely  poor  trans- 
portation and  telecommunications  facilities  continued  to  dis- 
courage foreign  investors  in  1993. 

In  the  second  half  of  1993,  continued  military  upheaval  did 
not  entirely  deter  progress  in  foreign  investment.  The  Renault 
automobile  company  of  France,  the  German  Tee  Kanes  tea 
company,  and  British  and  Dutch  liquor  companies  signed  con- 


205 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

tracts  in  August,  and  officials  of  Mitsubishi  and  an  American 
shipbuilder  visited  Georgia  to  assess  investment  conditions. 

Government  and  Politics 

In  the  late  1980s  and  the  early  1990s,  the  tone  of  Georgian 
political  life  changed  significantly.  National  elections  held  in 
1989,  1990,  and  1992  reflected  that  change.  The  nature  of  gov- 
ernance in  newly  independent  Georgia  was  most  influenced  by 
the  personalities  of  two  men,  Zviad  Gamsakhurdia  and  Eduard 
Shevardnadze.  But  democratic  institutions  evolved  slowly  and 
sporadically  in  the  early  1990s. 

Establishing  Democratic  Institutions 

Prior  to  the  1989  elections,  the  Georgian  Communist  Party 
maintained  tight  control  over  the  nomination  process.  Even  in 
1989,  candidates  ran  unopposed  in  forty-three  of  seventy-five 
races,  and  elsewhere  pairings  with  opposition  candidates  were 
manipulated  to  guarantee  results  favoring  the  party.  In  Tbilisi 
grassroots  movements  succeeded  in  nominating  three  candi- 
dates to  the  Georgian  Supreme  Soviet  in  1989.  The  leaders  of 
these  movements  were  mostly  young  intellectuals  who  had  not 
been  active  dissidents.  Many  of  those  figures  later  joined  to 
form  a  new  political  party,  Democratic  Choice  for  Georgia, 
abbreviated  as  DASi  in  Georgian.  Because  of  expertise  in  local 
political  organization,  DASi  played  a  leading  role  in  drafting 
legislation  for  local  and  national  elections  between  1990  and 
1992. 

The  death  of  the  Tbilisi  demonstrators  in  April  1989  led  to  a 
major  change  in  the  Georgian  political  atmosphere.  Radical 
nationalists  such  as  Gamsakhurdia  were  the  primary  beneficia- 
ries of  the  national  outrage  following  the  April  Tragedy.  In  his 
role  as  opposition  leader,  Gamsakhurdia  formed  a  new  politi- 
cal bloc  in  1990,  the  Round  Table/Free  Georgia  coalition. 

In  1990  Georgia  was  the  last  Soviet  republic  to  hold  elections 
for  the  republic  parliament.  Protests  and  strikes  against  the 
election  law  and  the  nominating  process  had  led  to  a  six-month 
postponement  of  the  elections  until  October  1990.  Opposition 
forces  feared  that  the  political  realities  favored  entrenched 
communist  party  functionaries  and  the  enterprise  and  collec- 
tive farm  officials  they  had  put  in  place.  According  to  reports, 
about  one-third  of  the  2,300  candidates  for  the  Supreme  Soviet 
fell  into  this  category. 


206 


Communist-built  secular  wedding  chapel,  Tbilisi 
Courtesy  Michael  W.  Serafin 


The  electoral  system  adopted  in  August  1990,  which  repre- 
sented a  compromise  between  competing  versions  put  forward 
by  the  Patiashvili  government  and  the  opposition,  created  the 
first  truly  multiparty  elections  in  the  Soviet  Union.  The  new 
Georgian  election  law  combined  district-level,  single-mandate, 
majority  elections  with  a  proportional  party  list  system  for  the 
republic  as  a  whole;  a  total  of  250  seats  would  constitute  the 
new  parliament.  On  one  hand,  the  proportional  voting  system 
required  that  a  party  gain  at  least  4  percent  of  the  total  votes  to 
achieve  representation  in  parliament.  On  the  other  hand,  can- 
didates with  strong  local  support  could  win  office  even  if  their 
national  totals  fell  below  the  4  percent  threshold.  When  the 
elections  finally  were  held,  widespread  fears  of  violence  or 
communist  manipulation  (expressed  most  vocally  by  Gamsa- 
khurdia)  proved  unfounded. 


207 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

The  1 990  Election 

The  1990  parliamentary  election  was  a  struggle  between 
what  remained  of  the  Georgian  Communist  Party,  which  still 
held  power  at  that  point,  and  thirty-one  opposition  parties  con- 
stituting the  Georgian  national  movement.  The  national  move- 
ment was  not  completely  represented  in  the  official  election, 
however,  because  many  opposition  parties  organized  separate 
elections  to  an  alternative  body  called  the  Georgian  National 
Congress.  An  important  factor  in  the  results  was  a  provision  in 
the  election  law  that  forbade  members  of  the  communist  party 
to  run  simultaneously  on  the  ticket  of  another  party.  (By  con- 
trast, in  this  interim  period  other  Soviet  republics  allowed  even 
proponents  of  radical  reform  to  retain  their  communist  party 
memberships  while  representing  popular  fronts  and  similar 
organizations.) 

The  election  decisively  rejected  the  communists  and  gave  a 
resounding  popular  mandate  to  the  Round  Table/Free  Geor- 
gia bloc  that  Gamsakhurdia  headed.  That  coalition  captured 
54  percent  of  the  proportional  vote  to  gain  155  seats  out  of  the 
250  up  for  election,  while  the  communists  gained  64  seats  and 
30  percent  of  the  proportional  vote.  Communist  strongholds 
remained  in  Azerbaijani  and  Armenian  districts  of  southern 
Georgia.  No  other  party  reached  the  4  percent  share  necessary 
for  representation  in  the  party-list  system,  and  only  a  handful 
of  candidates  from  other  parties  won  victories  in  the  individual 
district  races.  Boycotts  prevented  voting  in  two  districts  of 
Abkhazia  and  in  two  districts  of  South  Ossetia. 

Gamsakhurdia  raised  initial  hopes  for  compromise  in  his 
new  government  by  withdrawing  Round  Table/Free  Georgia 
candidacies  from  runoffs  against  the  opposition  Popular  Front 
Party  in  twelve  races.  That  move  ensured  the  election  of  Popu- 
lar Front  candidates  as  individuals  in  those  contests;  otherwise, 
the  4  percent  rule  would  have  precluded  representation  for 
the  Popular  Front. 

The  Gamsakhurdia  Government 

Gamsakhurdia's  choice  to  head  the  new  government,  Tengiz 
Sigua,  was  almost  universally  praised.  Sigua,  formerly  director 
of  a  metallurgy  institute,  had  been  an  adroit  and  evenhanded 
deputy  chairman  of  the  Central  Election  Commission  supervis- 
ing the  1990  election.  The  government  formed  by  Gamsakhur- 
dia included  many  officials  who  lacked  previous  government 


208 


Georgia 


experience.  Only  one  full  minister  was  retained  from  the  com- 
munist government,  although  former  deputy  ministers  were 
frequently  promoted  to  the  top  post  in  ministries  concerned 
with  the  economy.  Initially,  the  large  number  of  remaining 
communist  deputies  formed  no  organized  opposition  bloc  in 
the  parliament.  In  fact,  the  communist  party  faded  rapidly 
from  the  scene,  and  most  of  its  property  and  publishing  facili- 
ties were  seized.  The  large,  modern  facility  Shevardnadze  had 
built  for  the  party's  Central  Committee  was  taken  over  by  the 
Cabinet  of  Ministers.  The  rapid  decline  of  the  communists 
showed  that  the  major  attraction  of  communist  party  member- 
ship had  been  the  party's  position  of  power;  once  that  power 
was  lost,  the  number  of  active  communists  dropped  almost  to 
zero.  When  the  new  first  secretary  of  the  party  ran  against 
Gamsakhurdia  for  president  in  1991,  he  received  less  than  2 
percent  of  the  vote.  After  the  August  1991  coup  in  Moscow, 
Gamsakhurdia  banned  the  communist  party,  and  deputies 
elected  to  parliament  on  the  communist  ticket  were  deprived 
of  their  seats. 

Gamsakhurdia's  Ouster  and  Its  Aftermath 

A  small  but  vocal  parliamentary  opposition  to  Gamsakhurdia 
began  to  coalesce  after  August  1991,  particularly  after  govern- 
ment forces  reportedly  fired  on  demonstrators  in  September. 
At  this  time,  several  of  Gamsakhurdia's  top  supporters  in  the 
Round  Table/Free  Georgia  bloc  joined  forces  with  the  opposi- 
tion. However,  the  opposition  was  unable  to  convince  Gamsa- 
khurdia to  call  new  elections  in  late  1991.  The  majority  of 
deputies,  most  of  whom  owed  their  presence  in  parliament  to 
Gamsakhurdia,  supported  him  to  the  end.  Indeed,  a  significant 
number  of  deputies  followed  Gamsakhurdia  into  exile  in 
Chechnya,  where  they  continued  to  issue  resolutions  and 
decrees  condemning  the  "illegal  putsch." 

In  the  aftermath  of  Gamsakhurdia's  ouster  in  January  1992, 
parliament  ceased  to  function,  and  an  interim  Political  Consul- 
tative Council  was  formed.  Its  membership  would  include  rep- 
resentatives of  ten  political  parties,  a  select  group  of 
intellectuals,  and  several  opposition  members  of  parliament. 
This  council  was  intended  to  serve  as  a  substitute  parliament, 
although  it  only  had  the  right  to  make  recommendations.  Leg- 
islative functions  were  granted  to  a  new  and  larger  body,  the 
State  Council,  created  in  early  March  1992.  By  May  1992,  the 
State  Council  had  sixty-eight  members,  including  representa- 


209 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

tives  of  more  than  thirty  political  parties  and  twenty  social 
movements  that  had  opposed  Gamsakhurdia.  Efforts  were  also 
made  to  bring  in  representatives  of  Georgia's  ethnic  minorities, 
although  no  Abkhazian  or  Ossetian  representatives  partici- 
pated in  the  new  council. 

Almost  immediately  after  Gamsakhurdia's  ouster,  Sigua 
resumed  his  position  as  prime  minister  and  created  a  working 
group  to  draft  a  new  election  law  that  would  legitimize  the  next 
elected  government.  Immediately  after  the  overthrow  of  Gam- 
sakhurdia, the  new  government  feared  that  Gamsakhurdia 
retained  enough  support  in  Georgia  to  regain  power  in  the 
next  election.  As  a  result,  in  March  the  State  Council  adopted 
an  electoral  system  based  on  the  single  transferable  vote.  The 
system  would  virtually  guarantee  representation  by  small  par- 
ties and  make  it  difficult  for  a  party  list  headed  by  one  promi- 
nent figure  to  translate  a  majority  of  popular  votes  into 
parliamentary  control. 

New  Parties  and  Shevardnadze's  Return 

After  his  return  to  Georgia  in  March  1992,  Shevardnadze 
constantly  stressed  the  temporary  nature  of  the  new  power 
structure  and  called  for  elections  as  soon  as  possible.  But  the 
leadership  postponed  balloting  until  October  1992  because  it 
lacked  effective  political  control  over  many  regions  of  the 
country  and  because  of  factional  wrangling  over  the  new  elec- 
tion law.  Registration  of  political  parties,  which  had  been  sus- 
pended by  Gamsakhurdia  in  1991,  resumed  early  in  1992. 
Among  new  party  registrants  was  the  Democratic  Union,  a 
group  consisting  mostly  of  former  members  and  officials  of  the 
communist  party.  Claiming  a  broad  mass  following,  this  party 
had  organizations  in  most  regions  of  the  county.  Although 
wooed  by  the  Democratic  Union  and  other  parties,  Shevard- 
nadze avoided  party  affiliation  in  order  to  maintain  his  inde- 
pendent position.  The  parliament  that  would  be  elected  in 
October  1992  clearly  would  be  an  interim  body  given  the  task 
of  writing  a  new  constitution.  Accordingly,  the  term  of  office 
was  set  for  three  years. 

The  Election  of  1 992 

After  a  series  of  last-minute  changes,  the  electoral  system  for 
October  1992  was  a  compromise  combination  of  single-mem- 
ber districts  and  proportional  voting  by  party  lists.  To  give 
regional  parties  a  chance  to  gain  representation,  separate  party 


210 


Burned-out  headquarters  building  of  Georgian  Communist  Party, 

Tbilisi,  1992 
Courtesy  Michael  W.  Serafin 

lists  were  submitted  for  each  of  ten  historical  regions  of  Geor- 
gia. In  a  change  from  the  1990  system,  no  minimum  percent- 
age was  set  for  a  party  to  achieve  representation  in  parliament 
if  the  party  did  sufficiently  well  regionally  to  seat  candidates. 
Forty-seven  parties  and  four  coalitions  registered  to  participate 
in  the  1992  election.  For  the  first  time,  the  Central  Election 
Commission  accepted  the  registration  of  every  party  that  sub- 
mitted an  application. 

The  largest  of  the  electoral  alliances,  and  one  of  the  most 
controversial,  was  the  Peace  Bloc  (Mshvidoba).  This  broad  coa- 
lition of  seven  parties  ranged  from  the  heavily  ex-communist 
Democratic  Union  to  the  Union  for  the  Revival  of  Ajaria,  a 
party  of  the  conservative  Ajarian  political  elite.  Ultimately,  the 
strong  programmatic  differences  among  the  seven  parties 
would  render  the  Peace  Bloc  ineffective  as  a  parliamentary  fac- 


211 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

tion.  The  Democratic  Union  filled  as  much  as  70  percent  of  the 
places  given  the  coalition  on  the  party  lists.  In  the  1992  elec- 
tion, the  Peace  Bloc  drew  a  plurality  of  votes,  thus  earning  the 
coalition  twenty-nine  seats  in  parliament. 

The  second  most  important  coalition,  the  October  11  Bloc, 
included  moderate  reform  leaders  of  four  parties.  Members 
typically  had  academic  backgrounds  with  few  or  no  communist 
connections,  and  the  median  age  of  bloc  leaders  was  about  fif- 
teen years  less  than  that  of  the  Democratic  Union  leadership. 
The  October  11  Bloc  won  eighteen  seats,  the  second  largest 
number  in  the  1992  election. 

A  third  coalition,  the  Unity  Bloc  (Ertoba),  lost  two  of  its  four 
member  parties  before  the  election.  Many  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Liberal-Democratic  National  Party,  one  of  the  two  remaining 
constituent  parties  of  the  Unity  Bloc,  were,  like  the  leaders  of 
the  Democratic  Union,  former  communist  officials  who  contin- 
ued to  hold  influential  posts  in  the  Georgian  government  and 
the  mass  media.  Both  the  Peace  Bloc  and  the  Unity  Bloc  put 
prominent  cultural  figures  at  the  top  of  their  electoral  lists  to 
gain  attention. 

Shevardnadze's  actions  were  crucial  in  building  the  founda- 
tion for  the  1992  election.  From  the  time  of  his  return  to  Geor- 
gia, Shevardnadze  enjoyed  unparalleled  respect  and 
recognition.  Because  of  his  unique  position,  the  State  Council 
acted  to  separate  Shevardnadze  from  party  politics  by  creating 
a  potentially  powerful  new  elected  post,  chairman  of  parlia- 
ment, which  would  also  be  contested  in  the  October  elections. 
Because  no  other  candidate  emerged,  Shevardnadze  was  con- 
vinced to  forgo  partisan  politics  and  grasp  this  opportunity  for 
national  leadership. 

The  elections  took  place  as  scheduled  in  October  1992  in 
most  regions  of  the  countrv.  International  monitors  from  ten 
nations  reported  that,  with  minor  exceptions,  the  balloting  was 
free  and  fair.  Predictably,  Gamsakhurdia  declared  the  results 
rigged  and  invalid.  Interethnic  tensions  and  Gamsakhurdia's 
activity  forced  postponement  of  elections  in  nine  of  the  eighty- 
four  administrative  districts,  located  in  Abkhazia,  South  Osse- 
tia,  and  western  Georgia.  Voters  in  those  areas  were  encour- 
aged to  travel  to  adjoining  districts,  however,  to  vote  in  all  but 
the  regional  races.  Together,  the  nonvoting  districts  repre- 
sented 9.1  percent  of  the  registered  voters  in  Georgia.  In  no 
voting  district  did  less  than  60  percent  of  eligible  voters  partici- 
pate. 


212 


Georgia 


An  important  factor  in  the  high  voter  turnout  was  the  special 
ballot  for  Shevardnadze  as  chairman  of  the  new  parliament;  a 
large  number  of  voters  cast  ballots  only  for  Shevardnadze  and 
submitted  blank  or  otherwise  invalid  ballots  for  the  other 
races.  Shevardnadze  received  an  overwhelming  endorsement, 
winning  approximately  96  percent  of  the  vote.  In  all,  fifty-one 
of  the  ninety-two  members  of  the  previous  State  Council  were 
elected  to  the  new  parliament.  The  four  sitting  members  of  the 
State  Council  Presidium  (Shevardnadze,  Ioseliani,  Sigua,  and 
Kitovani)  also  were  reelected. 

Formation  of  the  Shevardnadze  Government 

An  immediate  goal  after  Shevardnadze's  return  was  to  avoid 
repeating  the  one-man  rule  imposed  by  Gamsakhurdia  while 
keeping  a  sufficiently  tight  grip  on  central  power  to  prevent 
regional  separatism.  The  newly  elected  parliament  convened 
for  the  first  time  in  November  1992-  The  lack  of  dominant  par- 
ties and  the  large  number  of  independent  deputies  ensured 
that  Shevardnadze  would  dominate  parliamentary  sessions. 
The  precise  role  of  Shevardnadze  was  not  clear  at  the  time  of 
the  elections;  on  November  6,  the  parliament  ratified  propos- 
als on  this  subject  in  the  Law  on  State  Power.  Instead  of  reestab- 
lishing the  post  of  president  that  had  been  created  by — and 
was  still  claimed  by — Gamsakhurdia,  parliament  gave  Shevard- 
nadze a  new  title,  head  of  state.  In  theory,  parliament  was  to 
elect  the  holder  of  this  office,  although  in  practice  the  position 
was  understood  to  be  combined  with  the  popularly  elected  post 
of  chairman  of  the  parliament.  Thus  an  impasse  between  the 
executive  and  the  legislative  branches  was  avoided  by  giving  the 
same  person  a  top  role  in  both,  but  the  division  of  power 
between  the  branches  remained  unclear  in  early  1994. 

The  Cabinet 

The  government  team  selected  by  Shevardnadze,  called  the 
Cabinet  of  Ministers,  was  quickly  approved  by  parliament  in 
November  1992.  Tengiz  Sigua  returned  as  prime  minister.  Four 
deputy  prime  ministers  were  chosen  in  November  1992,  includ- 
ing Tengiz  Kitovani,  former  head  of  the  National  Guard  and 
minister  of  defense  in  the  new  cabinet.  In  December  1992,  the 
Presidium  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  was  created.  This  body 
included  the  prime  minister  and  his  deputy  prime  ministers,  as 
well  as  the  ministers  of  agriculture,  economics,  finance,  foreign 
affairs,  and  state  property  management. 


213 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

In  December  1992,  the  Georgian  government  included  eigh- 
teen ministries,  four  state  committees,  and  fifteen  depart- 
ments, which  together  employed  more  than  7,600  officials. 
Many  appointees  to  top  government  posts,  including  several 
ministers,  had  held  positions  in  the  apparatus  of  the  Georgian 
Communist  Party.  Although  Shevardnadze's  early  appoint- 
ments favored  his  contemporaries  and  former  associates,  by 
late  1993  about  half  of  the  positions  in  the  top  state  administra- 
tive apparatus  were  held  by  academics.  Less  than  10  percent 
were  former  communists,  about  75  percent  were  under  age 
forty,  and  more  than  half  came  from  opposition  parties. 

In  September  1993,  the  cabinet  included  the  following  min- 
istries: agriculture  and  the  food  industry;  communications;  cul- 
ture; defense;  economic  reform;  education;  environment; 
finance;  foreign  affairs;  health;  industry;  internal  affairs;  jus- 
tice; labor  and  social  security;  state  property  management;  and 
trade  and  supply.  Each  of  the  five  deputy  prime  ministers 
supervised  a  group  of  ministries. 

In  practice,  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  was  a  major  obstacle  to 
reform  in  1993.  Pro-reform  ministers  were  isolated  by  the  dom- 
ination of  former  communists  in  the  Presidium,  which  stood 
between  Shevardnadze  and  the  administrative  machinery  of 
the  ministries.  In  1993  Shevardnadze  himself  was  reluctant  to 
push  hard  for  the  rapid  reforms  advocated  by  progressives  in 
parliament.  The  cabinet  was  superficially  restructured  in 
August  1993,  but  reformers  clamored  for  a  smaller  cabinet 
under  direct  control  of  the  head  of  state. 

Parliament 

In  1993  some  twenty-six  parties  and  eleven  factions  held 
seats  in  the  new  parliament,  which  continued  to  be  called  the 
Supreme  Soviet.  The  legislative  branch's  basic  powers  were  out- 
lined in  the  Law  on  State  Power,  an  interim  law  rescinding  the 
strict  limits  placed  on  legislative  activity  by  Gamsakhurdia's 
1991  constitution.  Thus  in  1993  the  parliament  had  the  power 
to  elect  and  dismiss  the  head  of  state  by  a  two-thirds  vote;  to 
nullify  laws  passed  by  local  or  national  bodies  if  they  conflicted 
with  national  law;  to  decide  questions  of  war  and  peace;  to 
reject  any  candidate  for  national  office  proposed  by  the  head 
of  state;  and,  upon  demand  of  one-fifth  of  the  deputies,  to 
declare  a  vote  of  no  confidence  in  the  sitting  cabinet. 

Activity  within  the  legislative  body  was  prescribed  by  the 
Temporary  Regulation  of  the  Georgian  Parliament.  The  parlia- 


214 


Georgia 


ment  as  a  whole  elected  all  administrative  officials,  including  a 
speaker  and  two  deputy  speakers.  Seventeen  specialized  com- 
missions examined  all  bills  in  their  respective  fields.  The 
speaker  had  little  power  over  commission  chairs  or  over  depu- 
ties in  general,  and  parliament  suffered  from  an  inefficient 
structure,  insufficient  staff,  and  poor  communications.  The 
two  days  per  week  allotted  for  legislative  debate  often  did  not 
allow  full  consideration  of  bills. 

The  major  parliamentary  reform  factions — the  Democrats, 
the  Greens,  the  Liberals,  the  National  Democrats,  and  the 
Republicans — were  not  able  to  maintain  a  coalition  to  promote 
reform  legislation.  Of  that  group,  the  National  Democrats 
showed  the  most  internal  discipline.  Shevardnadze  received 
support  from  a  large  group  of  deputies  from  single-member 
districts,  aligned  with  Liberals  and  Democrats.  His  radical 
opposition,  a  combination  of  several  very  small  parties,  was 
weakened  by  disunity,  but  it  frequently  was  able  to  obstruct 
debate.  The  often  disorderly  parliamentary  debates  reduced 
support  among  the  Georgian  public,  to  whom  sessions  were 
widely  televised. 

In  November  1993,  Shevardnadze  was  able  to  merge  three 
small  parties  with  a  breakaway  faction  of  the  Republicans  to 
form  a  new  party,  the  Union  of  Citizens  of  Georgia,  of  which  he 
became  chairman.  This  was  a  new  step  for  the  head  of  state, 
who  previously  had  refrained  from  political  identification  and 
had  relied  on  temporary  coalitions  to  support  his  policies.  At 
the  same  time,  Shevardnadze  also  sought  to  include  the  entire 
loose  parliamentary  coalition  that  had  recently  supported  him, 
in  a  concerted  effort  to  normalize  government  after  the  Abk- 
hazian crisis  abated. 

The  Chief  Executive 

The  1992  Law  on  State  Power  gave  Shevardnadze  power 
beyond  the  executive  functions  of  presidential  office.  As  chair- 
man of  parliament,  he  had  the  right  to  call  routine  or  extraor- 
dinary parliamentary  sessions,  preside  over  parliamentary 
deliberations,  and  propose  constitutional  changes  and  legisla- 
tion. As  head  of  state,  Shevardnadze  nominated  the  prime  min- 
ister, the  cabinet,  the  chairman  of  the  Information  and 
Intelligence  Service,  and  the  president  of  the  National  Bank  of 
Georgia  (although  the  parliament  had  the  right  of  approval  of 
these  officials) . 


215 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Without  parliamentary  approval,  the  head  of  state 
appointed  all  senior  military  leaders  and  provincial  officials 
such  as  prefects  and  mayors.  Additional  power  came  from  his 
control  of  the  entire  system  of  state  administration,  and  he 
could  form  his  own  administrative  apparatus,  which  had  the 
potential  to  act  as  a  shadow  government  beyond  the  control  of 
any  other  branch.  Key  agencies  chaired  by  Shevardnadze  in 
1993  were  the  Council  for  National  Security  and  Defense,  the 
Emergency  Economic  Council,  and  the  Scientific  and  Techni- 
cal Commission,  which  advised  on  military  and  industrial  ques- 
tions. 

In  response  to  calls  by  the  opposition  for  his  resignation  dur- 
ing the  Abkhazian  crisis  of  mid-1993,  Shevardnadze  requested 
and  received  from  parliament  emergency  powers  to  appoint  all 
ministers  except  the  prime  minister  and  to  issue  decrees  on 
economic  policy  without  legislative  approval.  When  the  Sigua 
government  resigned  in  August,  parliament  quickly  approved 
Shevardnadze's  nomination  of  industrialist  Otar  Patsatsia  as 
prime  minister.  Although  Shevardnadze  argued  that  greater 
central  power  was  necessary  to  curb  turmoil,  his  critics  saw  him 
setting  a  precedent  for  future  dictatorship  and  human  rights 
abuses. 

The  Judicial  System 

When  Georgia  was  part  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Georgia  was  subordinate  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
Soviet  Union,  and  the  rule  of  law  in  Georgia,  still  based  largely 
on  the  Soviet  constitution,  included  the  same  limitations  on 
personal  rights.  Beginning  in  1990,  the  court  system  of  Georgia 
began  a  major  transition  toward  establishment  of  an  indepen- 
dent judiciary  that  would  replace  the  powerless  rubber-stamp 
courts  of  the  Soviet  period.  The  first  steps,  taken  in  late  1990, 
were  to  forbid  Supreme  Court  judges  from  holding  communist 
party  membership  and  to  remove  Supreme  Court  activities 
from  the  supervision  of  the  party.  After  the  overthrow  of  Gam- 
sakhurdia,  the  pre-Soviet  constitution  of  1921  was  restored, 
providing  the  legal  basis  for  separation  of  powers  and  an  inde- 
pendent court.  Substantial  opposition  to  actual  independence 
was  centered  in  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  however,  some  of 
whose  members  would  lose  de  facto  judicial  power. 

The  Supreme  Court 

In  1993  the  Supreme  Court  had  thirty-nine  members,  of 


216 


Georgia 


whom  nine  worked  on  civil  cases  and  thirty  on  criminal  cases. 
All  judges  had  been  elected  for  ten-year  terms  in  1990  and 
1991.  Shevardnadze  made  no  effort  to  replace  judges  elected 
under  Gamsakhurdia,  although  they  had  been  seated  under  a 
different  constitutional  system.  The  Supreme  Court's  functions 
include  interpreting  laws,  trying  cases  of  serious  criminal  acts 
and  appeals  of  regional  court  decisions,  and  supervising  appli- 
cation of  the  law  by  other  government  agencies. 

The  Procurator  General 

The  postcommunist  judicial  system  has  continued  the  multi- 
ple role  of  the  procurator  general's  office  as  an  agency  of  inves- 
tigation, a  constitutional  court  supervising  the  application  of 
the  law,  and  the  institution  behind  prosecution  of  crimes  in 
court.  In  1993  the  procurator  general's  office  retained  a 
semimilitary  structure  and  total  authority  over  the  investigation 
of  court  cases;  judges  had  no  power  to  reject  evidence  gained 
improperly.  Advocates  of  democratization  identified  abolition 
of  the  office  of  procurator  general  as  essential,  with  separation 
of  the  responsibilities  of  the  procurator  general  and  the  courts 
as  a  first  step. 

Prospects  for  Reform 

All  parties  in  Georgia  agreed  that  judicial  reform  depended 
on  passage  of  a  new  constitution  delineating  the  separation  of 
powers.  If  such  a  constitution  prescribed  a  strong  executive  sys- 
tem, the  head  of  state  would  appoint  Supreme  Court  judges;  if 
a  parliamentary  system  were  called  for,  parliament  would  make 
the  court  appointments.  In  early  1994,  however,  the  constitu- 
tion was  the  subject  of  prolonged  political  wrangling  that 
showed  no  sign  of  abating.  At  that  point,  experts  found  a  sec- 
ond fundamental  obstacle  to  judicial  reform  in  a  national  psy- 
chology that  had  no  experience  with  democratic  institutions 
and  felt  most  secure  with  a  unitary,  identifiable  government 
power.  Reform  was  also  required  in  the  training  of  lawyers  and 
judges,  who  under  the  old  system  entered  the  profession 
through  the  sponsorship  of  political  figures  rather  than  on 
their  own  merit. 

Regional  Courts 

Until  the  Gamsakhurdia  period,  regional  courts  were 
elected  by  regional  party  Soviets;  since  1990  regional  courts 
have  been  appointed  by  regional  officials.  After  the  beginning 


217 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

of  ethnic  struggles  in  South  Ossetia  and  Abkhazia,  regional 
military  courts  also  were  established.  The  head  of  state 
appoints  military  judges,  and  the  Supreme  Court  reviews  mili- 
tary court  decisions.  The  Tbilisi  City  Court  has  separate  juris- 
diction in  supervising  the  observance  of  laws  in  the  capital  city. 

The  Constitution 

Under  Gamsakhurdia,  Georgia  had  continued  to  function 
under  the  Soviet-era  constitution  of  1978,  which  was  based  on 
the  1977  constitution  of  the  Soviet  Union.  The  first  postcom- 
munist  parliament  amended  that  document  extensively.  In 
February  1992,  the  Georgian  National  Congress  (the  alternate 
parliament  elected  in  1990)  formally  designated  the  Georgian 
constitution  of  February  21,  1921,  as  the  effective  constitution 
of  Georgia.  That  declaration  received  legitimacy  from  the  sig- 
natures of  Jaba  Ioseliani  and  Tengiz  Kitovani,  at  that  time  two 
of  the  three  members  of  the  governing  Military  Council. 

In  February  1993,  Shevardnadze  called  for  extensive  revi- 
sions of  the  1921  constitution.  Characterizing  large  sections  of 
that  document  as  wholly  unacceptable,  Shevardnadze  pro- 
posed forming  a  constitutional  commission  to  draft  a  new  ver- 
sion by  December  1993.  According  to  Shevardnadze's 
timetable,  the  draft  would  be  refined  by  parliament  in  the 
spring  of  1994  and  then  submitted  for  approval  by  popular  ref- 
erendum in  the  fall  of  1994. 

Human  Rights 

Human  rights  protection  and  media  freedom  have  been  hin- 
dered in  postcommunist  Georgia  by  the  national  government's 
assumption  of  central  executive  power  to  deal  with  states  of 
political  and  military  emergency  and  by  the  existence  of  semi- 
independent  military  forces.  In  1993  the  expression  of  opposi- 
tion views  in  the  independent  media  was  interrupted  by  official 
and  unofficial  actions  against  newspapers  and  broadcasters, 
despite  a  stated  policy  that  expression  of  antigovernment  views 
would  be  tolerated  if  not  accompanied  by  violent  acts. 

Both  sides  of  the  Abkhazian  conflict  claimed  widespread 
interference  with  civilian  human  rights  by  their  opponents. 
Among  the  charges  were  abuse  of  military  prisoners,  the  taking 
of  civilian  hostages,  and  the  shelling  and  blockading  of  civilian 
areas.  In  1993  the  Shevardnadze  government  began  addressing 
claims  of  human  rights  abuses  by  its  military  forces  and  police, 
particularly  against  Gamsakhurdia  partisans  and  the  Abkhazian 


218 


Georgia 


population.  In  January  the  Parliamentary  Commission  on 
Human  Rights  and  Ethnic  Minority  Affairs  formed  the  Council 
of  Ethnic  Minorities,  which  met  with  representatives  of  the 
Meskhetian  Turk  exile  population  to  resolve  the  grievances  of 
that  group.  At  the  same  time,  the  Interethnic  Congress  of  the 
People  of  Georgia  was  formed  to  improve  ethnic  Georgians' 
appreciation  of  minority  rights. 

Despite  the  government's  efforts,  the  Abkhazian  conflict 
continued  the  tension  between  necessary  wartime  controls  and 
the  need  to  protect  human  rights.  In  June  1993,  the  interna- 
tional human  rights  group  Helsinki  Watch  cited  Georgia  for 
political  persecution,  media  obstruction,  and  military  abuses  of 
civilian  rights,  and  in  October  the  United  States  listed  human 
rights  progress  as  a  prerequisite  for  continued  economic  aid. 

The  Media 

The  1992  Law  on  the  Press  nominally  reversed  the  rigorous 
state  censorship  of  the  Soviet  and  Gamsakhurdia  periods  and 
guaranteed  freedom  of  speech.  In  1993  Georgian  law  con- 
tained no  prohibition  of  public  criticism  of  the  head  of  state, 
and  Shevardnadze  was  subjected  to  accusations  and  comments 
from  every  direction.  Three  television  channels  are  in  opera- 
tion; one,  Ibervision,  is  run  independently.  Numerous  inde- 
pendent newspapers  are  published;  Sakartvelos  Respublika  (The 
Georgian  Republic)  presents  the  official  government  view  in 
the  daily  press. 

Despite  some  liberalization,  in  1994  national  security 
remained  a  rationale  for  media  restriction.  During  the  crisis  of 
September  1993,  two  pro-Gamsakhurdia  newspapers  were 
closed,  and  the  office  of  an  independent  weekly  was  attacked 
by  gunmen.  The  Free  Media  Association,  an  organization  com- 
posed of  eight  independent  newspapers,  blamed  a  progovern- 
ment  party  for  the  attack.  After  his  controversial  decision  in 
October  to  join  the  CIS,  Shevardnadze  threatened  to  close  hos- 
tile newspapers,  and  no  television  channel  discussed  the  wide- 
spread disagreement  with  the  head  of  state's  CIS  initiative. 

Foreign  Relations 

Georgia's  long  tradition  as  a  crossroads  of  East-West  com- 
merce was  interrupted  by  the  trade  practices  of  the  Soviet 
Union  and  then  by  Gamsakhurdia's  isolationist  policy. 
Although  the  Shevardnadze  government  sought  to  revive  the 
national  economy  by  reinstating  ties  with  both  East  and  West, 


219 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

in  1992  and  1993  domestic  turmoil  prevented  major  steps  in 
that  direction.  In  1993  Shevardnadze  traveled  widely  among 
the  former  Soviet  republics  (Azerbaijan,  Kazakhstan,  Russia, 
and  Turkmenistan)  and  elsewhere  (Germany,  China,  and  the 
headquarters  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  in  Bel- 
gium) to  solidify  Georgia's  international  position  and  to  solicit 
aid.  By  September,  Georgia  had  diplomatic  relations  with  sev- 
enty-eight countries  and  economic  cooperation  treaties  with 
sixteen. 

The  Soviet  and  Gamsakhurdia  Periods 

Soviet  policy  effectively  cut  traditional  commercial  and  dip- 
lomatic links  to  Turkey,  which  became  a  member  of  the  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO — see  Glossary)  in  1952, 
and  to  Iran,  a  United  States  ally  until  the  late  1970s.  Instead, 
virtually  all  transportation  and  commercial  links  were  directed 
to  Russia  and  the  other  Soviet  republics.  The  same  redirection 
occurred  with  diplomatic  ties,  which  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Soviet  Union  controlled.  Shevardnadze's  pres- 
ence as  Soviet  foreign  minister  from  1985  to  1990  provided  lit- 
tle direct  benefit  to  Georgia  aside  from  the  large  number  of 
high-ranking  guests  who  visited  the  republic  in  that  period. 
That  group  included  Britain's  Prime  Minister  Margaret 
Thatcher  and  United  States  Secretary  of  State  George  Shultz. 

Under  Gamsakhurdia,  Georgia's  efforts  to  break  out  of  the 
diplomatic  isolation  of  the  Soviet  period  were  stymied  by  the 
reluctance  of  the  outside  world  to  recognize  breakaway  repub- 
lics while  the  Soviet  Union  still  existed.  Romania,  which 
granted  recognition  in  August  1991,  was  one  of  the  few  coun- 
tries to  do  so  during  the  Gamsakhurdia  period.  Several  Geor- 
gian delegations  came  to  the  United  States  in  1991  in  an  effort 
to  establish  diplomatic  ties,  but  Washington  largely  ignored 
those  efforts.  Given  stable  internal  conditions,  the  dissolution 
of  the  Soviet  Union  in  late  1991  would  have  released  Georgia 
from  its  isolation,  but  by  that  time  the  revolt  against  Gamsa- 
khurdia was  in  full  force.  After  the  violent  overthrow  of  Gamsa- 
khurdia, other  governments  were  reluctant  to  recognize  the 
legitimacy  of  his  successors.  This  situation  changed  in  March 
1992,  when  the  internationally  prominent  Shevardnadze 
returned  to  Georgia  and  became  chairman  of  the  State  Coun- 
cil. 

In  1992  and  1993,  United  States  aid  to  Georgia  totaled 
US$224  million,  most  of  it  humanitarian,  placing  Georgia  sec- 


220 


Georgia 


ond  in  United  States  aid  per  capita  among  the  former  Soviet 
republics.  In  September  1993,  Shevardnadze  appealed  directly 
to  the  United  States  Congress  for  additional  aid.  At  that  time, 
President  William  J. Clinton  officially  backed  Shevardnadze's 
efforts  to  maintain  the  territorial  integrity  of  Georgia.  Reports 
of  human  rights  offenses  against  opposition  figures,  however, 
brought  United  States  warnings  late  in  1993  that  continued 
support  depended  on  the  Georgian  government's  observance 
of  international  human  rights  principles. 

The  Foreign  Policy  Establishment 

In  his  role  as  head  of  the  State  Council,  Shevardnadze 
exerted  a  strong  and  direct  influence  on  Georgia's  foreign  pol- 
icy prior  to  the  1992  election.  The  additional  post  of  head  of 
state,  which  he  acquired  after  the  election,  gave  him  the  right 
to  conduct  negotiations  with  foreign  governments  and  to  sign 
international  treaties  and  agreements.  In  the  Sigua  cabinet,  the 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  was  headed  by  Alexander  Chikh- 
vaidze,  who  had  worked  previously  in  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  was  serving  as  Soviet  ambassa- 
dor to  the  Netherlands  at  the  time  of  his  appointment  in 
Tbilisi.  The  Council  for  National  Security  and  Defense  was  cre- 
ated in  late  1992  to  formulate  strategic  and  security  policy 
under  the  chairmanship  of  the  head  of  state  (see  National 
Security,  this  ch.). 

Revived  Contacts  in  1992 

Shevardnadze's  diplomatic  contacts  and  personal  relation- 
ships with  many  of  the  world's  leaders  ended  Georgia's  interna- 
tional isolation  in  1992.  In  March,  Germany  became  the  first 
Western  country  to  post  an  ambassador  to  Georgia;  Shevard- 
nadze's close  relations  with  German  foreign  minister  Hans- 
Dietrich  Genscher  were  a  key  factor  in  that  decision.  Recogni- 
tion by  the  United  States  came  in  April  1992,  and  a  United 
States  embassy  was  opened  in  June  1992.  Georgia  became  the 
179th  member  of  the  United  Nations  in  July  1992;  it  was  the 
last  of  the  former  Soviet  republics  to  be  admitted.  By  Decem- 
ber 1992,  six  countries  had  diplomatic  missions  in  Tbilisi: 
China,  Germany,  Israel,  Russia,  Turkey,  and  the  United  States. 
Seventeen  other  countries  began  conducting  diplomatic  affairs 
with  Georgia  through  their  ambassadors  to  Russia  or  Ukraine. 
In  August  1993,  the  United  States  granted  Georgia  most- 


221 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

favored-nation  status,  and  the  European  Community  offered 
technical  economic  assistance. 

Unlike  some  former  Soviet  republics  such  as  Armenia, 
Lithuania,  and  Ukraine,  Georgia  lacked  a  large  number  of  emi- 
grants in  the  West  who  could  establish  links  to  the  outside 
world  once  internal  conditions  made  such  connections  possi- 
ble. Small  groups  of  Georgian  exiles  lived  in  Paris  and  other 
European  capitals,  but  they  were  mostly  descended  from  mem- 
bers of  the  Social  Democratic  government  that  had  been 
forced  into  exile  with  the  incorporation  of  Georgia  into  the 
Soviet  empire  in  1921. 

The  only  large  group  of  emigrants  that  maintained  contact 
with  Georgia  were  Georgian  Jews  who  had  taken  advantage  of 
the  Soviet  Union's  expansion  of  Jewish  emigration  rights  in  the 
1970s  and  1980s.  Because  Jews  had  lived  in  Georgia  for  many 
centuries  and  because  Georgia  had  no  history  of  anti-Semitism, 
many  Georgian  Jews  continued  to  feel  an  attachment  to  Geor- 
gia and  its  culture,  language,  and  people.  Largely  as  a  result  of 
these  ties,  relations  between  Georgia  and  Israel  flourished  on 
many  levels. 

Relations  with  Neighboring  Countries 

Of  particular  importance  to  Georgia's  postcommunist  for- 
eign policy  and  national  security  was  the  improvement  of  rela- 
tions with  neighbors  on  all  sides:  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Russia, 
and  Turkey.  This  goal  was  complicated  by  a  number  of  ethnic 
and  political  issues  as  well  as  by  historical  differences. 

Armenia  and  Azerbaijan 

Among  the  former  Soviet  republics,  the  neighboring  Trans- 
caucasian  nations  of  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  have  special  sig- 
nificance for  Georgia.  Despite  Georgia's  obvious  cultural  and 
religious  affinities  with  Armenia,  relations  between  Georgia 
and  Muslim  Azerbaijan  generally  have  been  closer  than  those 
with  Christian  Armenia.  Economic  and  political  factors  have 
contributed  to  this  situation.  First,  Georgian  fuel  needs  make 
good  relations  with  Azerbaijan  vital  to  the  health  of  the  Geor- 
gian economy.  Second,  Georgians  have  sympathized  with  Azer- 
baijan's position  in  the  conflict  between  Armenia  and 
Azerbaijan  over  the  ethnic  Armenian  enclave  of  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh because  of  similarities  to  Georgia's  internal  problems 
with  Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia.  Both  countries  have  cited  the 
principle  of  "inviolability  of  state  borders"  in  defending 


222 


Eduard  Shevardnadze  on 
official  visit  to  the  United 
States  with  President 
William  J.  Clinton, 
March  1994 
Courtesy  White  House 
Photo  Office 


national  interests  against  claims  by  ethnic  minorities  (see  fig.  3; 
Nagorno-Karabakh  and  Independence,  ch.  1;  After  Commu- 
nist Rule,  ch.  2). 

In  December  1990,  Georgia  under  Gamsakhurdia  signed  a 
cooperation  agreement  with  Azerbaijan  affecting  the  eco- 
nomic, scientific,  technical,  and  cultural  spheres.  In  February 
1993,  Georgia  under  Shevardnadze  concluded  a  far-reaching 
treaty  of  friendship,  cooperation,  and  mutual  relations  with 
Azerbaijan,  including  a  mutual  security  arrangement  and 
assurances  that  Georgia  would  not  reexport  Azerbaijani  oil  or 
natural  gas  to  Armenia.  In  1993  Azerbaijan  exerted  some  pres- 
sure on  Georgia  to  join  the  blockade  of  Armenia  and  to  curb 
incursions  by  Armenians  from  Georgian  territory  into  Azer- 
baijan. The  issue  of  discrimination  against  the  Azerbaijani 
minority  in  Georgia,  a  serious  matter  during  Gamsakhurdia's 
tenure,  was  partially  resolved  under  Shevardnadze. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Armenia  maintained  fundamentally  good 
relations  with  Georgia.  The  main  incentive  for  this  policy  was 
the  fact  that  Azerbaijan's  blockade  of  Armenian  transport 
routes  and  pipelines  meant  that  routes  through  Georgia  were 
Armenia's  only  direct  connection  with  the  outside  world. 
Other  considerations  in  the  Armenian  view  were  the  need  to 
protect  the  Armenians  in  Georgia  and  the  need  to  stem  the 
overflow  of  violence  from  Georgian  territory.  The  official  ties 


223 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

that  Georgia  forged  with  Azerbaijan  between  1991  and  1993 
strained  relations  with  Armenia,  which  was  in  an  undeclared 
state  of  war  with  Azerbaijan  throughout  that  period.  Neverthe- 
less, Gamsakhurdia  signed  a  treaty  with  Armenia  on  principles 
of  cooperation  in  July  1991,  and  Shevardnadze  signed  a  friend- 
ship treaty  with  Armenia  in  May  1993.  With  the  aim  of  restor- 
ing mutually  beneficial  economic  relations  in  the 
Transcaucasus,  Shevardnadze  also  attempted  (without  success) 
to  mediate  the  Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict  in  early  1993. 

Russia 

Of  all  countries,  Georgia's  relations  with  Russia  were  both 
the  most  important  and  the  most  ambivalent.  Russia  (and  pre- 
viously the  Soviet  Union)  was  deeply  involved  at  many  levels  in 
theconflicts  in  South  Ossetia  and  Abkhazia,  and  in  1993  Aja- 
rian  leaders  also  declared  Russia  the  protector  of  their  national 
interests.  Thus  Russia  seemingly  holds  the  key  to  a  resolution 
of  those  conflicts  in  a  way  that  would  avoid  the  fragmentation 
of  Georgia.  Trade  ties  with  Russia,  disrupted  by  Gamsakhur- 
dia's  struggle  with  Gorbachev  and  by  ethnic  conflicts  on  Geor- 
gia's borders  with  Russia,  also  are  critical  to  reviving  the 
Georgian  economy. 

Russia  recognized  Georgia's  independence  in  mid-1992  and 
appointed  an  ambassador  in  October.  In  1993  Russia's  official 
position  was  that  a  stable,  independent  Georgia  was  necessary 
for  security  along  Russia's  southern  border.  The  conditions 
behind  that  position  were  Russia's  need  for  access  to  the  Black 
Sea,  which  was  endangered  by  shaky  relations  with  Ukraine, 
the  need  for  a  buffer  between  Russia  and  Islamic  extremist 
movements  Russia  feared  in  Turkey  and  Iran,  the  need  to  pro- 
tect the  370,000  ethnic  Russians  in  Georgia,  and  the  refugee 
influx  and  violence  in  the  Russian  Caucasus  caused  by  turmoil 
across  the  mountains  in  Georgia.  Although  Shevardnadze  was 
officially  well  regarded,  Russian  nationalists,  many  of  them  in 
the  Russian  army,  wished  to  depose  him  as  punishment  for  his 
initial  refusal  to  bring  Georgia  into  the  CIS  and  for  his  role  as 
the  Soviet  foreign  minister  who  "lost"  the  former  Soviet  repub- 
lics in  1991. 

In  pursuing  its  official  goals,  Russia  offered  mediation  of 
Georgia's  conflicts  with  the  Abkhazian,  Ajarian,  and  Ossetian 
minorities,  encouraging  Georgia  to  increase  the  autonomy  of 
those  groups  for  the  sake  of  national  stability.  At  the  same  time, 
Russian  military  policy  makers  openly  declared  Georgia's  stra- 


224 


Georgia 


tegic  importance  to  Russian  national  security.  Such  statements 
raised  suspicions  that,  as  in  1801  and  1921,  Russia  would  take 
advantage  of  Georgia's  weakened  position  and  sweep  the  little 
republic  back  into  the  empire. 

Despite  the  misgivings  of  his  fellow  Georgians,  in  1993  She- 
vardnadze pursued  talks  toward  a  comprehensive  bilateral 
Georgian-Russian  treaty  of  friendship.  Discussions  were  inter- 
rupted by  surges  of  fighting  in  Abkhazia,  however,  and  rela- 
tions were  cooled  by  Shevardnadze's  claim  that  Russia  was 
aiding  the  secessionist  campaign  that  had  begun  in  August. 

In  September  1993,  the  fall  of  Sukhumi  to  Abkhazian  forces 
signaled  the  crumbling  of  the  Georgian  army,  and  the  return 
of  Gamsakhurdia  threatened  to  split  Georgia  into  several  parts. 
Shevardnadze,  recognizing  the  necessity  of  outside  military 
help  to  maintain  his  government,  agreed  to  join  the  CIS  on 
terms  dictated  by  Russia  in  return  for  protection  of  govern- 
ment supply  lines  by  Russian  troops.  Meanwhile,  despite  deni- 
als by  the  Yeltsin  government,  an  unknown  number  of  Russians 
still  gave  "unofficial"  military  advice  and  materiel  to  the  Abkha- 
zian forces,  which  experts  believed  would  not  have  posed  a 
major  threat  to  Tbilisi  without  such  assistance.  Shevardnadze 
defended  CIS  membership  at  home  as  an  absolute  necessity  for 
Georgia's  survival  as  well  as  a  stimulant  to  increased  trade  with 
Russia. 

Turkey 

Despite  a  history  of  episodic  Turkish  invasions,  Shevard- 
nadze courted  Turkey  as  an  economic  and  diplomatic  partner. 
Georgians  took  advantage  of  the  opening  of  border  traffic  with 
Turkey  to  begin  vigorous  commercial  activities  with  their  near- 
est "capitalist"  neighbor.  In  1992  Georgia  became  a  member  of 
the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization,  which  is 
based  in  Turkey.  In  December  1992,  Turkey  granted  Georgia  a 
credit  equivalent  to  US$50  million  to  purchase  wheat  and 
other  goods  and  to  stimulate  Turkish  private  investment  in  the 
republic.  Georgia  also  signed  several  diplomatic  agreements 
with  Turkey  in  the  early  1990s,  including  a  Georgian  pledge  to 
respect  existing  common  borders  and  official  Turkish  support 
of  Georgian  national  integrity  against  the  Abkhazian  separatist 
movement.  The  issue  of  reinstatement  of  exiled  Meskhetian 
Turks  eased  in  1993  when  Georgia  established  official  contacts 
with  that  minority  (see  Human  Rights,  this  ch.). 


225 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

National  Security 

Military  forces  have  played  a  critical  role  in  Georgian  politics 
since  1989.  In  January  1992,  Georgia's  president  was  over- 
thrown by  military  force,  and  the  Shevardnadze  regime  relied 
heavily  on  the  armed  forces  to  stay  in  power.  Warfare  in  the 
autonomous  regions  of  South  Ossetia  and  Abkhazia,  as  well  as 
armed  resistance  by  Gamsakhurdia  supporters  in  western 
Georgia,  have  further  emphasized  the  military's  major  role  in 
national  security. 

The  Military  Establishment 

Almost  from  its  inception  in  late  1990,  the  National  Guard 
became  directly  involved  in  Georgian  politics.  By  1992 
repeated  human  rights  offenses  against  Gamsakhurdia  sup- 
porters brought  calls  to  change  this  role.  At  the  same  time,  the 
political  rivalry  between  Ioseliani  and  Kitovani,  the  leaders  of 
the  Mkhedrioni  (horsemen)  and  the  National  Guard,  respec- 
tively, became  one  of  the  key  conflicts  in  the  Georgian  govern- 
ment hierarchy,  and  many  political  parties  continued  to  retain 
private  armies  in  the  guise  of  armed  bodyguards  or  security 
teams.  Discipline  problems  in  the  ranks  of  both  the  National 
Guard  and  the  Mkhedrioni  and  their  ineffectiveness  as  fighting 
forces  led  the  Georgian  government  to  plan  for  a  professional 
army.  In  April  1992,  the  State  Council  adopted  a  resolution  to 
form  a  unified  armed  force  of  up  to  20,000  soldiers. 

At  the  time  the  government  announced  its  plans  for  a  pro- 
fessional army,  however,  neither  existing  military  group  had 
sufficient  internal  discipline  to  carry  out  major  restructuring. 
Efforts  to  disband  the  National  Guard  and  Mkhedrioni  were 
delayed  by  continued  violence  in  western  Georgia,  by  an 
attempted  coup  in  Tbilisi  by  Gamsakhurdia  supporters,  and  by 
the  political  ambitions  of  Kitovani  and  Ioseliani.  In  May  1992, 
Kitovani  was  designated  minister  of  defense  in  an  effort  to 
bring  the  National  Guard  under  central  control.  Instead,  dur- 
ing the  following  year  Kitovani  turned  his  position  into  a  power 
center  rivaling  Shevardnadze's.  In  May  1993,  Shevardnadze 
induced  Kitovani  and  Ioseliani  to  resign  from  their  powerful 
positions  on  the  Council  for  National  Security  and  Defense, 
depriving  both  men  of  influence  over  national  security  policy 
and  enhancing  the  stature  of  the  head  of  state. 

Shevardnadze  complained  in  early  1993  that  a  unified  army 
had  still  not  been  created.  In  May  the  National  Guard  was  abol- 


226 


Georgia 


ished  as  a  separate  force,  and  individual  distinguished  units 
remained  in  existence  with  special  guard  status.  In  the  second 
half  of  1993,  however,  outside  threats  to  national  security 
caused  Shevardnadze  to  rely  once  again  on  Ioseliani's  paramili- 
tary Mkhedrioni,  delaying  consolidation  of  a  national  military 
force.  In  September,  Shevardnadze's  control  over  the  military 
improved  when  parliament  declared  a  two-month  state  of 
emergency,  which  had  the  effect  of  weakening  the  Mkhedrioni. 

The  Russian  Presence 

The  Soviet  Union  had  maintained  a  substantial  military  pres- 
ence in  Georgia  because  the  republic  bordered  Turkey,  a  mem- 
ber of  NATO.  The  Transcaucasus  Military  District,  which  had 
coordinated  Soviet  military  forces  in  the  three  republics  of 
Transcaucasia,  was  headquartered  in  Tbilisi.  In  mid-1993  an 
estimated  15,000  Russian  troops  and  border  guards  remained 
on  Georgian  territory.  Georgia  did  not  press  Russian  with- 
drawal as  vigorously  as  did  other  former  republics  of  the  Soviet 
Union  because  it  did  not  have  enough  personnel  to  patrol  its 
entire  border.  At  the  same  time,  the  continued  presence  of 
Russian  troops  energized  the  Georgian  nationalist  parties.  In 
the  fall  of  1993,  those  groups  saw  Shevardnadze's  call  for  Rus- 
sian military  assistance,  and  the  significant  increase  of  Russian 
forces  that  resulted,  as  an  admission  that  his  national  security 
policy  had  failed  and  a  sign  that  the  traditional  enemy  to  the 
north  was  again  threatening. 

Draft  Policy 

The  role  of  Soviet  military  and  internal  security  forces  in  the 
April  Tragedy  made  Georgian  connections  with  those  forces  a 
primary  target  of  anticommunist  groups.  As  in  other  Soviet 
republics,  opposition  to  the  draft  became  an  early  focus  of 
opposition  activities.  Of  all  the  Soviet  republics,  Georgia  had 
the  lowest  rate  of  recruitment  in  the  fall  of  1990,  approxi- 
mately 10  percent  of  eligible  citizens.  One  of  the  first  acts 
passed  by  Gamsakhurdia's  parliament  ended  the  Soviet  military 
draft  on  Georgian  territory. 

In  late  1990,  Soviet  conscription  was  replaced  with  the 
induction  of  eligible  Georgian  males  into  new  "special  divi- 
sions," under  the  control  of  the  Georgian  Ministry  of  Internal 
Affairs,  for  the  maintenance  of  order  within  the  republic.  The 
new  body,  which  became  Kitovani's  National  Guard,  was  one  of 
the  first  official  non-Soviet  military  units  in  what  was  still  the 


227 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Soviet  Union.  Attempts  to  build  a  new  Georgian  national  army 
in  1993  and  1994  were  hindered  by  a  very  high  percentage  of 
draft  evasion. 

Arms  Supply 

Relatively  little  of  the  military  industry  of  the  Soviet  Union 
was  located  in  Georgia.  One  Tbilisi  plant  assembled  military 
training  aircraft  that  were  the  basis  of  a  small  Georgian  air 
force.  Most  weapons  obtained  by  the  various  armed  units  oper- 
ating in  Georgia  after  1990  apparently  were  purchased  illegally 
from  Soviet  (and  later  Russian)  officers  and  soldiers  stationed 
in  the  Caucasus.  In  May  1992,  leaders  of  the  CIS  set  quotas  for 
the  transfer  of  Soviet  military  equipment  to  republic  armed 
forces.  According  to  this  plan,  Georgia  was  to  receive  220  tanks, 
220  armored  vehicles,  300  artillery  pieces,  100  military  aircraft, 
and  fifty  attack  helicopters.  Kitovani  complained  in  December 
1992  that  Georgia  had  not  yet  received  any  of  its  allotment. 

Internal  Security 

The  Georgian  internal  security  agency  having  the  closest  ties 
to  Moscow  was  the  Georgian  branch  of  the  Committee  for  State 
Security  (Komitet  gosudarstvennoi  bezopasnosti — KGB). 
Beginning  in  1990,  the  anticommunist  independence  move- 
ment exerted  direct  pressure  on  the  Georgian  KGB  to  accept 
independence.  The  first  confrontation  between  Moscow  and 
the  Gamsakhurdia  government  came  over  appointments  to  top 
security  posts  in  the  republic.  In  November  1990,  the  Georgian 
parliamentary  Commission  on  Security  broke  the  tradition  of 
Moscow-designated  KGB  chiefs  by  naming  its  own  appointee. 
When  Gorbachev  threatened  dire  consequences,  Gamsakhur- 
dia simply  left  the  chairmanship  vacant  but  named  his  candi- 
date first  deputy  chairman  and  thus  acting  chairman.  At  that 
point,  top  Georgian  KGB  officials  voiced  support  for  Gamsa- 
khurdia and  protested  Gorbachev's  interference,  signaling  a 
service  commitment  to  Tbilisi  rather  than  to  Moscow. 

As  late  as  mid-1991,  Moscow  continued  financing  activities  of 
the  Georgian  KGB  and  provided  part  of  the  budget  of  the 
Georgian  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  which  ran  domestic  intel- 
ligence and  police  agencies.  Meanwhile,  by  1991  the  opposi- 
tion to  Gamsakhurdia  was  accusing  the  president  of  using  the 
Georgian  KGB  to  investigate  and  harass  political  enemies. 

In  May  1992,  the  Georgian  KGB,  which  in  the  interim  had 
been  renamed  the  Ministry  of  Security,  was  formally  replaced 


228 


Georgia 


by  the  Information  and  Intelligence  Service.  The  new  agency, 
established  on  the  organizational  foundation  of  the  old  KGB, 
was  headed  by  Irakli  Batiashvili,  a  thirty-year-old  philosophy 
scholar  who  had  been  a  National  Democratic  Party  delegate  to 
the  National  Congress. 

Civilian  National  Security  Organization 

In  November  1992,  the  parliament  passed  a  law  creating  the 
Council  for  National  Security  and  Defense.  This  body  was 
accountable  to  parliament,  but,  as  head  of  state  and  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  Shevardnadze  was  council 
chairman.  Shevardnadze  named  Ioseliani  and  Kitovani  deputy 
chairmen  of  the  council;  Tedo  Japaridze,  top  expert  on  the 
United  States  in  the  Georgian  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs, 
became  the  chairman's  aide.  The  powers  of  the  council 
included  the  right  to  issue  binding  decisions  on  military  and 
security  matters. 

In  May  1993,  Shevardnadze  disbanded  the  council  to 
deprive  Ioseliani  and  Kitovani  of  their  government  power 
bases.  The  council  was  then  reconstituted,  with  Shevardnadze's 
chairmanship  assuming  greater  power. 

Crime 

In  the  first  postcommunist  years,  levels  of  crime  and  civil 
unrest  in  Georgia  were  quite  high  because  of  the  proximity  of 
the  Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict,  refugee  movement  and  ter- 
rorism resulting  from  the  Abkhazian  conflict  within  Georgia, 
the  gap  between  official  wages  and  living  standards,  and  the 
government's  lack  of  police  authority  in  many  areas  of  the 
country.  Crime  statistics  were  unreliable,  however,  because  the 
extent  of  law  enforcement  and  reporting  varied  during  1993. 
Reported  crimes  dropped  from  1,982  in  May  to  1,260  in  July.  In 
late  1993,  however,  numerous  automobile  thefts  and  kidnap- 
pings occurred  on  Georgian  highways,  and  citizen  insecurity 
prompted  the  proliferation  of  private  detective  agencies. 

The  natural  gas  pipeline  to  Armenia  was  a  frequent  target  of 
terrorist  bombs  in  1993,  and  several  government  figures  appar- 
ently were  the  targets  of  unsuccessful  bomb  attacks.  The  Mkhe- 
drioni,  who  often  were  involved  in  criminal  activity,  usually 
escaped  police  control  because  the  minister  of  internal  affairs 
was  a  Mkhedrioni  member.  In  September,  Shevardnadze  took 
personal  control  of  the  ministry  to  bolster  police  authority. 


229 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Long-Term  Security 

In  late  1993,  the  primary  consideration  of  Georgian  national 
security  continued  to  be  the  prevention  of  territorial  gains  by 
separatist  national  movements — a  cause  for  which  Russian  mili- 
tary assistance  was  proving  indispensable.  Longer-term 
national  security,  however,  would  depend  on  Shevardnadze's 
ability  to  reestablish  the  structures  of  a  viable,  unified  state: 
internal  and  international  commercial  activity,  undisputed  sov- 
ereignty over  the  national  territory  and  its  populace,  and  a 
shift  back  to  government  rule  by  statute  rather  than  by  emer- 
gency executive  powers.  In  early  1994,  all  those  preconditions 
remained  in  doubt,  and  Shevardnadze's  reluctant  recourse  to 
Russian  military  assistance  had  set  a  precedent  with  unknown 
national  security  consequences. 

*  *  * 

For  background  on  Georgian  history,  the  best  basic  source  is 
Ronald  G.  Suny's  The  Making  of  the  Georgian  Nation.  Earlier  his- 
tories on  the  Georgian  people  were  written  by  David  Marshall 
Lang  (A  Modern  History  of  Soviet  Georgia  and  The  Georgians)  and 
Kalistrat  Salia  (History  of  the  Georgian  Nation) .  Several  scholars 
have  followed  contemporary  Georgian  developments  on  a  reg- 
ular basis;  in  addition  to  the  present  author,  they  include  Eliza- 
beth Fuller,  a  writer  for  the  BFE/RL  Research  Report;  Stephen 
Jones,  whose  journal  articles  cover  political  and  nationalist 
issues  in  the  Caucasus;  and  Robert  Parsons  of  the  British 
Broadcasting  Corporation.  Human  rights  issues  in  Georgia  are 
covered  extensively  in  publications  of  the  United  States  Con- 
gress's Commission  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe. 
Useful  articles  from  Russian-language  sources  are  translated  in 
the  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service's  Daily  Report:  Soviet 
Union  (more  recently  titled  Daily  Report:  Central  Eurasia) .  Stud- 
ies of  Georgian  culture  and  history  appear  occasionally  in  the 
Journal  for  the  Study  of  Caucasia.  And  the  Georgian  Chronicle  is  a 
monthly  bulletin  on  current  events  published  by  the  Caucasian 
Institute  for  Peace,  Democracy,  and  Development  in  Tbilisi. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliogra- 
phy.) 


230 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Selected  Health  and 

Health  Care  Statistics,  1989,  1990,  and  1991 

3  Armenia:  Output  of  Major  Industrial  Products,  1989,  1990, 

and  1991 

4  Armenia:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989,  1990,  and  1991 

5  Armenia:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989-92 

6  Armenia:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption,  Selected 

Years,  1970-90 

7  Armenia:  Government  Budget,  1991  and  1992 

8  Armenia:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 

9  Azerbaijan:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption,  Select- 

ed Years,  1970-90 

10  Azerbaijan:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989,  1990,  and 
1991 

11  Azerbaijan:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989, 1990, 
and  1991 

12  Azerbaijan:  Population  and  Employment,  1988-91 

13  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Share  of  Total  Produc- 
tion of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities  in  Former  Soviet 
Union  by  Republic,  1986-90  Average 

14  Azerbaijan:  Output  of  Selected  Industrial  Products,  1989, 
1990,  and  1991 

15  Azerbaijan:  Government  Budget,  1988-92 

16  Azerbaijan:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 

17  Georgia:  Government  Budget,  1991  and  1992 

18  Georgia:  Output  of  Major  Industrial  Products,  1990,  1991, 
and  1992 

19  Georgia:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989,  1990, 
and  1991 

20  Georgia:  Population  and  Employment,  1988-91 

21  Georgia:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption,  Selected 
Years,  1970-90 

22  Georgia:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989,  1990,  and  1991 

23  Georgia:  External  Trade,  1988,  1989,  and  1990 

24  Georgia:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 


231 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  kow  Multiply  by  To  find 


0.04 

inches 

Centimeters   

0.39 

inches 

Meters   

3.3 

feet 

Kilometers   

0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

2.47 

acres 

Square  kilometers  

0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters   

35.3 

cubic  feet 

Liters   

0.26 

gallons 

Kilograms  

2.2 

pounds 

0.98 

long  tons 

1.1 

short  tons 

2,204.0 

pounds 

Degrees  Celsius  (Centigrade)   

1.8  and  add  32 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

233 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  2.    Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Selected  Health  and 
Health  Care  Statistics,  1989,  1990,  and  1991 


Armenia  Azerbaijan  Georgia 


Disease  diagnosis 


Tuberculosis   17.6  36.2  28.9 

Viral  hepatitis   279.0  310.5  226.3 

Cancer   223.1  224.9  140.9 

Hospital  beds2    89.4  99.4  110.7 

Doctors2    42.8  38.9  59.2 

Pharmacists3    7.0  6.7  14.3 

Infant  mortality4   17.1  25.0  15.9 


For  tuberculosis  and  cancer,  first  diagnoses  per  100,000  population  in  1990;  for  viral  hepatitis,  registered 
cases  per  100,000  population  in  1989. 

Per  10,000  population:  in  1990  for  Georgia,  in  1991  for  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan. 
Per  10,000  population  in  1989. 

Per  1,000  live  births:  in  1990  for  Georgia,  in  1991  for  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Christopher  M.  Davis,  "Health  Care  Crisis:  The  Former 
Soviet  Union,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  40,  October  8,  1993,  36. 


234 


Appendix 


Table  3.  Armenia:  Output  of  Major  Industrial  Products,  1989, 
1990,  and  1991 


Product 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Automobile  tires  (in  thousands)  

1,338 

1,009 

914 

Cable  (in  kilometers)  

13,772 

8,459 

7,746 

Canned  food  (in  thousands  of  cans)  

413,119 

267,425 

181,860 

Carpets  (in  thousands  of  square  meters)  

1,585 

1,300 

947 

1,639 

1,466 

1,507 

Electric  energy  (in  millions  of  kilowatt-hours) . . 

12,137 

10,377 

9,532 

Electric  engines   

736,490 

823,295 

700,157 

Leather  shoes  (in  thousands  of  pairs)  

17,952 

18,740 

11,340 

Natural  textile  items  

90,723 

85,473 

53,203 

Synthetic  fibers  (in  tons)   

10,479 

9,351 

4,050 

Synthetic  rubber  (in  tons)  

39,150 

1,141 

10,613 

Wine  and  cognac  (in  thousands  of  decaliters)  . . 

7,104 

4,805 

4,852 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Armenia,  Washington,  1993, 
40. 


235 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  4.  Armenia:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989,  1990,  and 
1991  (items  per  100  families  J 


Product  1989  1990  1991 


Automobiles   33  34  39 

Refrigerators    81  81  80 

Sewing  machines   54  52  50 

Tape  recorders    42  46  49 

Televisions   93  95  93 

Washing  machines   89  95  96 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Handbook  of 
International  Economic  Statistics,  1993,  Washington,  1993,  73. 


236 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Armenia:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989-92 
(in  thousands  of  people) 

Activity                                                            1989         1990  1991  19921 

Agriculture                                                           117          115  46  20 

Industry                                                                417          398  359  344 

Construction                                                          156          167  162  122 

Communications                                                       13            13  12  20 

Transportation                                                          65            64  69  51 

Health  and  social  services                                             91            90  93  81 

Education                                                             143          154  130  152 

Science  and  research  and  development                              52            52  35  30 

Other   '.                                                   248          231  231  192 

TOTAL                                                             1,302        1,284  1,137  1,012 

*  January  to  June. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Armenia,  Washington,  1993, 
44. 


237 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  6.   Armenia:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption,  Selected 

Years,  1970-90 
fin  kilograms  unless  otherwise  specified) 


Food 

1970 

1980 

1985 

1990 

Bread   

1  <A 

  1j4 

140 

131 

126 

C\A 

1  AC 

146 

1  AO 

14s 

163 

Fish   

  4 

4 

5 

8 

Meat  

  34 

47 

49 

56 

Milk  and  dairy  products  

  328 

432 

433 

446 

Potatoes   

  55 

55 

65 

58 

  26 

31 

29 

39 

  2 

3 

2 

3 

Vegetables   

  101 

118 

135 

132 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the 
Former  USSR,  Washington,  1992,  183-84. 


238 


Appendix 


Table  7.  Armenia:  Government  Budget,  1991  and  19921  fin 
percentages  of  GNPJ2 

1992 

1991 

First         Second  Third  Fourth 

Quarter        Quarter  Quarter  Quarter3 

Revenues 

Tax  revenues4                                      15.8           10.7            19.6  18.5  15.6 

Nontax  revenues                                   10.2            6.0              5.6  5.1  5.3 

Total  revenues                             26.0           16.7            25.2  23.5  20.9 

Expenditures 
Current  expenditures 

Wages  . .                                        n.a.5           5.6             7.3  6.4  8.9 

External  interest                                    n.a.           14.7              9.7  9.3  10.7 

Pension  and  child  allowances                    n.a.           15.1             13.1  8.9  11.7 

Other                                                             255            _JA  _2O0  20.7 

Total  current  expenditures                    n.a.          60.9            37.6  44.5  52.1 

Capital  expenditures                                 n.a.            4.8              8,7  4.6  5.6 

Total  expenditures                          27.9          65.7            46.4  49.1  57.6 

Accrued  deficit                                      -1.9        -49.0          -21.2  -25.6  -36.7 

Net  change  in  arrears  *                      n.a.          34.1            10.2  11.8  16.5 

Cash  deficit                                        -1.9        -14.9          -11.0  -13.7  -20.2 

1  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

2  GNP — gross  national  product. 

3  Projected. 

4  Includes  value-added  tax;  excise,  enterprise,  and  personal  income  taxes;  collection  of  back  taxes;  and  other 
taxes. 

5  n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Armenia,  Washington,  1993, 
51. 


239 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  8.  Armenia:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 


Country 

Value1 

Percentage  of  Total 

Exports 

Imports 

Exports 

Imports 

Europe  

  69 

585 

66.9 

66.8 

Bulgaria   

  12 

67 

11.7 

7.6 

Britain  

  3 

10 

2.9 

1.1 

Hungary   

  6 

49 

5.8 

5.6 

Italy  

  4 

20 

3.9 

2.3 

Poland  

  7 

84 

6.8 

9.6 

  4 

20 

3.9 

2.3 

Germany  

  11 

139 

10.7 

15.8 

Finland   

  3 

22 

2.9 

2.5 

  3 

27 

2.9 

3.1 

Czechoslovakia  

  9 

80 

8.7 

9.1 

  2 

28 

1.9 

3.2 

  11 

148 

10.3 

16.9 

India   

  2 

25 

1.9 

2.9 

China  

  2 

24 

1.9 

2.7 

  1 

33 

1.0 

3.8 

North  America  

  8 

98 

7.7 

11.2 

Cuba  

  6 

51 

5.8 

5.8 

United  States  

  1 

32 

1.0 

3.6 

In  millions  of  rubles. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former 
USSR,  Washington,  1992,  40. 


240 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Azerbaijan:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption, 
SelectedYears,  1970-90 
(In  kilograms  unless  otherwise  specified) 


Food 

1970 

1980 

1985 

1990 

Bread   

  155 

160 

158 

151 

Eggs  (in  units)   

  90 

134 

155 

143 

Fish  

  3 

3 

5 

5 

Meat  

  26 

32 

35 

34 

Milk  and  dairy  products  . .  . 

  227 

281 

293 

292 

Potatoes   

  25 

25 

28 

27 

Sugar   

  33 

40 

37 

36 

Vegetable  oil  

  2 

2 

3 

3 

Vegetables   

  47 

72 

62 

67 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the 

Former  USSR,  Washington,  1992,  183-84. 

Table  10.  Azerbaijan:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989, 1990, 

and  1991 

(items  per  100  families  J 

Product 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Automobiles  

16 

17 

16 

Refrigerators   

83 

83 

82 

Sewing  machines  

62 

60 

58 

Tape  recorders   

36 

39 

40 

Televisions  

101 

102 

101 

Washing  machines  

48 

51 

52 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Handbook  of 
International  Economic  Statistics,  1993,  Washington,  1993,  75. 


241 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  11.  Azerbaijan:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989, 
1990,  and  1991 
(in  thousands  of  peoplej 


Activity 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Agriculture  

905 

914 

934 

Forestry   

6 

5 

5 

Industry  

483 

469 

463 

Construction  

243 

251 

248 

Transportation  and  communications  

133 

143 

143 

Trade  and  commercial  services  

232 

230 

233 

Housing  and  municipal  services   

108 

99 

101 

Science  and  research  and  development  

60 

58 

60 

Education  and  culture   

329 

338 

341 

Health  and  social  welfare   

168 

170 

173 

Government  

61 

62 

62 

Other   

67 

71 

73 

TOTAL1  

2,794 

2,808 

2,839 

Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book  1993,  1,  London,  1993,  442. 


242 


Appendix 


Table  12.  Azerbaijan:  Population  and  Employment,  1988-91 
fin  thousands  of  people,) 


1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Total  population  

  6,963 

7,064 

7,117 

7,175 

Urban  

  3,768 

3,829 

3,843 

3,858 

Rural  

  3,195 

3,235 

3,274 

3,317 

Total  labor  force  

  3,932 

3,959 

3,977 

3,986 

Total  employed  

  2,753 

2,795 

2,808 

2,839 

  2,209 

2,200 

2,173 

2,171 

  304 

308 

312 

325 

Self-employed   

  236 

241 

260 

265 

Other   

  4 

46 

63 

78 

Students  of  working  age  

  325 

308 

306 

307 

Employed  in  households  

  815 

721 

729 

707 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Azerbaijan:  From  Crisis  to  Sustained 
Growth,  Washington,  1993,  159. 


243 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  13.  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Share  of  Total 
Production  of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities  in  Former  Soviet 
Union  by  Republic,  1986-90  Average 
fin  percentages) 


Commodity                                                    Armenia          Azerbaijan  Georgia 

Citrus  fruits    0.0  0.0  96.3 

Cotton    0.0  7.7  0.0 

Eggs   0.7  1.2  1.0 

Fruits  and  berries   2.0  4.3  6.8 

Grains   0.2  0.6  0.3 

Grapes    3.1  22.6  11.0 

Meat   0.5  0.9  0.9 

Milk  :   0.5  1.0  0.7 

Potatoes    0.3  0.3  0.5 

Sugar  beets   0.1  0.0  0.1 

Sunflowers   0.0  0.0  0.1 

Vegetables    1.8  3.1  2.0 

Wool   0.8  2.3  1.4 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the 
Former  USSR,  Washington,  1992,  194. 


244 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Azerbaijan:  Output  of  Selected  Industrial  Products, 
1989, 1990,  and  1991 
fin  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  specified) 


Product 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Aviation  fuel  

114 

89 

58 

167 

146 

113 

219 

160 

171 

Diesel  oil   

4,236 

3,899 

3,635 

Electric  energy  (in  millions  of  kilowatt-hours)  

23,300 

23,200 

23,300 

Fuel  oil  

7,555 

6,686 

7,207 

Jet  kerosene   

1,519 

1,290 

1,205 

Lubricants   

934 

818 

763 

1,522 

1,479 

1,174 

Naphtha   

550 

341 

427 

Petroleum  coke  

230 

179 

161 

Steel  

696 

501 

462 

Sulfuric  acid  

768 

603 

552 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1,  London,  1993,  443. 


245 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  15.  Azerbaijan:  Government  Budget  1988-921 
Cm  percentages  of  GNP)~ 


:  9  ;  s 


- 


Revenues 
Tax  revenues 

Indirect  taxes3   , 

Direct  taxes4  

Total  tax  revenues  

Nontax  revenues  

Total  revenues   

Expenditures 

National  economy5  

Science   

Education   

Health  

Culture  and  sports  

Social  security  

Internal  security  and  defense 

Consumer  subsidies   

Other  

Total  expenditures  

Balance   


10.3 

10.7 

12.5 

13.0 

20.4 

8.4 

7.9 

8.6 

8.1 

s  : 

18.7 

18.6 

21.1 

21.1 

28.4 

3.5 

3.8 

5.3 

4.4 

3.6 

22.3 

22.3 

26.4 

255 

32.0 

9.5 

10.6 

15.1 

9.9 

2.4 

0.0 

0.4 

0.4 

0.2 

0.5 

6.9 

6.7 

7.7 

7.0 

10.3 

2.3 

2.5 

2.9 

2.9 

4.0 

0.1 

0.1 

0.1 

1.0 

1.0 

3.0 

3.2 

4.0 

6.6 

2.6 

0.3 

0.3 

05 

1.3 

7.6 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

3.7 

1.1 

0.7 

1.3 

1.7 

5.6 

23.1 

24.4 

31.9 

:-:  5 

;-" : 

-0.9 

-2.0 

-5.5 

-5.0 

-5.6 

1  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 
"  GXP — gross  national  product. 

3  Turnover,  sales,  excise,  and  export-import  taxes:  value-added  tax:  and  duties. 

4  Profit,  income,  and  property  taxes. 

5  Investment  bv  budgetary  institutions  and  transfers  to  the  enterprise  sector 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank.  Azerbaijan:  From  Crisis  to  Sustained 
Growth.  Washington.  1993.  193. 


246 


Appendix 


Table  16.  Azerbaijan:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 


Country 

Value1 

Percentage  of  Total 

Exports 

Imports 

Exports 

Imports 

Europe   

836 

62.7 

65.3 

Bulgaria  

92 

9.0 

7.2 

12 

3.1 

0.9 

Hungary   

  27 

60 

5.9 

4.7 

54 

2.4 

4.2 

  26 

140 

5.7 

10.9 

Romania   

  16 

30 

3.5 

2.3 

172 

10.7 

13.4 

Finland   

  10 

39 

2.2 

3.0 

22 

2.6 

1.7 

Czechoslovakia  

  33 

109 

7.2 

8.5 

Yugoslavia  

  11 

53 

2.4 

4.1 

Asia   

72 

262 

15.9 

20.5 

India   

  9 

57 

2.0 

4.5 

China  

  8 

28 

1.9 

2.7 

Japan   

  11 

53 

2.4 

4.1 

  31 

131 

6.9 

10.2 

Cuba   

  26 

67 

5.7 

5.2 

United  States  

  4 

39 

0.9 

3.0 

In  millions  of  rubles. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former 
USSR,  Washington,  1992,  68. 


247 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  1 7.    Georgia:  Government  Budget,  1991  and  1992  fin 

millions  of  rubles) 

1991  1992 

Budget        Actual  Budget  Actual 

Revenues 

Tax  revenues                                                     3,972         4,631  22,202  15,218 

Nontax  revenues                                                 1,295          1,567  2.898  3,655 

Total  revenues                                           5,267         6,198  25,100  18,873 

Expenditures 

National  economy1                                              2,979         2,878  11,885  20,815 

Social  and  cultural 

Education  and  culture2                                        n.a.2         1,520  n.a.  8,421 

Health  and  sports                                                   n.a.            812  n.a.  2,996 

Social  security                                                    n.a.            120  n.a.  34 

Science                                                            n.a.             74  n.a.  874 

Total  social  and  cultural                                    2,717         2,526  10,082  12,325 

Administration  and  law  enforcement 

State  administration                                             n.a.            124  n.a.  1,288 

Internal  security  and  defense                                   n.a.            118  n.a.  5.282 

Total  administration  and  law  enforcement  .              245            242  2,631  6,570 

Other                                                                327            276  1.765  2.972 

Total  expenditures                                        6,268         5,922  26,363  42,682 

Extrabudgetary  factors3                                             n.a.          1,000  12,713  -23,320 

Interest  on  foreign  debt    0   0   0  21.714 

Balance                                                              -1,001          -724  -13,976  -68,843 

1  Investment  by  budgetary  institutions  and  transfers  to  the  enterprise  sector. 

2  n.a. — not  available. 

3  Errors  and  omissions  and  extrabudgetary  expenditures  for  social  security  fund  and  net  lending. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Georgia:  A  Blueprint  for  Reforms,  Washing- 
ton, 1993,  120;  and  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1,  London,  1993,  50. 


248 


Appendix 


Table  18.  Georgia:  Output  of  Major  Industrial  Products,  1990, 
1991  and  1992 
fin  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  specified) 


Product 

1990 

1991 

19921 

Beer  (in  thousands  of  decaliters)  

9,477 

6,011 

3,288 

Cigarettes  (in  millions)   

11,200 

9,800 

5,100 

Cotton  fabric  (in  millions  of  square  meters)  

34 

17 

13 

Diesel  fuel   

658 

495 

111 

Footwear  (in  millions  of  pairs)  

13 

12 

3 

Heavy  oil  (mazut)   

898 

737 

189 

Machine  tools  (in  units)  

1,565 

1,417 

1,149 

Margarine  

34 

16 

2 

Motor  fuel   

399 

324 

72 

Steel   

1,316 

962 

535 

Synthetic  fibers  

32 

20 

5 

Synthetic  resins  and  plastics  

40 

26 

8 

14 

7 

0.1 

Wine  (in  thousands  of  decaliters)  

16,283 

12,166 

7,130 

Estimated. 


.  Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1,  London,  1993, 
1236;  and  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Handbook  of  International 
Economic  Statistics,  1993,  Washington,  1993,  76. 


249 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  19.  Georgia:  Employment  by  Economic  Activity,  1989, 1990, 

andl991 
fin  thousands  of  people) 


Activity 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Agriculture  

656 

695 

671 

Forestry   

,     ,  12 

12 

11 

Industry   

537 

560 

488 

  266 

281 

225 

  123 

115 

104 

Trade  and  commercial  services   

267 

257 

227 

Housing  and  municipal  services   

123 

131 

110 

Science  and  research  and  development   

73 

73 

63 

301 

310 

290 

Health,  social  welfare,  and  sports   

189 

184 

186 

Banking  and  financial   

12 

12 

12 

Government  

55 

52 

48 

Other  services   

86 

82 

79 

TOTAL1  

2,700 

2,763 

2,514 

Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1,  London,  1993, 
1235. 


250 


Appendix 


Table  20.  Georgia:  Population  and  Employment,  1988-91 
(in  thousands  of  people) 


1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

Total  population  

  5,396 

5,414 

5,422 

5,421 

Males   

  2,561 

2,571 

2,579 

n.a.1 

Females   

  2,835 

2,843 

2,843 

n.a. 

Urban  

  2,989 

3,014 

3,029 

3,024 

Rural  

  2,407 

2,400 

2,393 

2,397 

Total  employed  

  2,650 

2,635 

2,685 

2,543 

1,414 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Females  employed  

  n.a. 

1,221 

n.a. 

n.a. 

In  state  sector  

  2,205 

2,148 

2,087 

1,886 

In  collective  farms  

  249 

218 

200 

154 

Self-employed   

  177 

211 

229 

356 

Other   

  19 

58 

169 

147 

n.a — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Georgia:  A  Blueprint  for  Reforms,  Washing- 
ton, 1993,  109-10. 


251 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  21.  Georgia:  Annual  Per  Capita  Food  Consumption,  Selected 

Years,  1970-90 
(in  kilograms  unless  otherwise  specified) 


Food 

i  Q7n 

Lyov 

1  QQ< 

i  onn 

Bread  ^  

  195 

190 

190 

183 

Eggs  (in  units)  

  85 

135 

148 

140 

Fish   

  6 

8 

9 

9 

Meat  

  31 

43 

47 

46 

Milk  and  dairy  products  

  235 

309 

309 

289 

Potatoes  

  38 

46 

49 

41 

Sugar   

  35 

45 

43 

39 

Vegetable  oil   

  3 

5 

6 

6 

Vegetables   

  51 

79 

87 

82 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the 
Former  USSR,  Washington,  1992,  183-84. 


Table  22.   Georgia:  Durable  Consumer  Goods,  1989,  1990,  and 
1991  (items  per  100  families  J 


Product 

1988 

1989 

1990 

31 

31 

34 

Refrigerators   

  95 

95 

95 

Sewing  machines  

  63 

63 

61 

  44 

48 

52 

Televisions  

  102 

106 

112 

Washing  machines  

  76 

81 

86 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Handbook  of 
International  Economic  Statistics,  1993,  Washington,  1993,  77. 


252 


Appendix 


Table  23.  Georgia:  External  Trade,  1988, 1989,  and  1990 
fin  millions  of  rubles,) 


1988  1989  1990 


Exports 


68 

68 

Ferrous  metallurgy  

  375 

376 

318 

Chemical  fuels  

  316 

343 

339 

Machines  and  processed  metals  

  848 

869 

804 

Nonfood  light  industrial  products   

  1,275 

1,285 

1,260 

Processed  foods   

  2,438 

2,573 

2,387 

Other  industrial  products  

  258 

275 

310 

  280 

190 

404 

Other   

  11 

105 

__93 

Total  exports   

  5,901 

6,084 

5,983 

To  other  Soviet  republics  

  5,508 

5,719* 

5,724 

  393 

4651 

259 

Imports 

413 

360 

285 

Ferrous  metallurgy  

  489 

443 

430 

Nonferrous  metallurgy  

  102 

106 

97 

Chemical  fuels  

541 

544 

576 

Machines  and  processed  metals  

1,533 

1,522 

1,580 

Timber  and  wood  products  

248 

244 

279 

  155 

148 

117 

Nonfood  light  industrial  products  

1,221 

1,287 

1,372 

,  .   ,  1,204 

1,142 

1,174 

  212 

212 

291 

348 

358 

498 

Other  

  _27 

103 

 140 

253 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Table  23.  Georgia:  External  Trade,  1988, 1989,  and  1990 
(in  millions  of  rubles  J 


1988 

1989 

1990 

Total  imports   

6,493 

6,469 

6,839 

From  other  Soviet  republics  

5,218 

4,888 

4,948 

From  other  countries  

1,275 

1,581 

1,891 

As  published. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1994,  1,  London,  1994, 
1237. 


254 


Appendix 


Table  24.   Georgia:  Major  Trading  Partners,  1990 


Country 

Value 1 

Percentage  of  Total 

Exports 

Imports 

Exports 

Imports 

Europe 

213 

1,687 

71.4 

71.2 

5 

53 

2.0 

2.2 

32 

202 

10.7 

8.5 

Hungary  

  18 

144 

6.0 

6.1 

Italy   

  13 

53 

4.4 

2.2 

25 

256 

8.4 

10.8 

32 

420 

10.7 

17.7 

7 

76 

2.3 

3.2 

23 

227 

7.7 

9.6 

Yugoslavia  

  8 

64 

2.7 

2.7 

j  1 1 

15.2 

15.9 

A.9. 
to 

2.0 

2.0 

China 

6 

34 

1.9 

2.7 

  1 

76 

0.2 

3.2 

Japan   

  12 

115 

4.0 

4.9 

North  America  

  22 

192 

7.3 

8.1 

Cuba  

  16 

114 

5.4 

4.8 

United  States   

  3 

37 

1.0 

1.6 

In  millions  of  rubles. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former 
USSR,  Washington,  1992,  152. 


255 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Aftandilian,  Gregory.  Armenia,  Vision  of  a  Republic:  The  Indepen- 
dence Lobby  in  America.  Boston:  Charles  River  Books,  1981. 

Arberry,  A.J.  (ed.).  Religion  in  the  Middle  East,  1.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 

Aden,  Michael.  Passage  to  Ararat.  New  York:  Farrar,  Straus  and 
Giroux,  1975. 

Arpee,  Leon.  The  Armenian  Awakening:  A  History  of  the  Armenian 
Church,  1820-1860.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press, 
1909. 

Asian,  Kevork.  Armenia  and  the  Armenians  from  the  Earliest  Times 
until  the  Great  War  (1914).  (Trans.,  Pierre  Crabites.)  New. 
York:  Macmillan,  1920. 

Aspaturian,  Vernon  V.  The  Union  Republics  in  Soviet  Diplomacy:  A 
Study  of  Soviet  Federalism  in  the  Service  of  Soviet  Foreign  Policy. 
Geneva:  E.  Droz,  1960. 

Atamian,  Sarkis.  The  Armenian  Community:  The  Historical  Develop- 
ment of  a  Social  and  Ideological  Conflict.  New  York:  Philosophi- 
cal Library,  1955. 

Bardakjian,  Kevork  B.  The  Mekhitarist  Contributions  to  Armenian 
Culture  and  Scholarship.  Cambridge:  Harvard  College 
Library,  1976. 

Bauer-Manndorff,  Elisabeth.  Armenia:  Past  and  Present.  Lu- 
cerne: Reich  Verlag,  1981. 

Blackwell,  Alice  Stone.  Armenian  Poetry.  Boston:  Atlantic,  1917. 

Bournoutian,  George  A.  Eastern  Armenia  in  the  Last  Decades  of 
Persian  Rule,  1807-1828:  A  Political  and  Socioeconomic  Study  of 
the  Khanate  of  Erevan  on  the  Eve  of  the  Russian  Conquest.  Mal- 
ibu,  California:  Undena,  1982. 

Braude,  Benjamin,  and  Bernard  Lewis.  Christians  and  Jews  in  the 
Ottoman  Empire:  The  Functioning  of  a  Plural  Society.  (2  vols.) 
New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1982. 

Bryce,  James.  Transcaucasia  and  Ararat.  London:  Macmillan, 
1896.  Reprint.  New  York:  Arno  Press,  1970. 

Buxton,  Noel,  and  Harold  Buxton.  Travels  and  Politics  in  Arme- 
nia. London:  Murray,  1914. 

Chalabian,  Antranig.  General  Andranik  and  the  Armenian  Revolu- 
tionary Movement.  Southfield,  Michigan:  Chalabian,  1988. 


257 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Davis,  Christopher  M.  "Health  Care  Crisis:  The  Former  Soviet 
Union,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  40,  Octo- 
ber 8,  1993,  35-43. 

Davison,  Roderic.  "The  Armenian  Crisis,  1912-1914,"  American 
Historical  Review,  53,  No.  3,  April  1948,  481-505. 

 .  Reform  in  the  Ottoman  Empire,  1856-1876.  Princeton: 

Princeton  University  Press,  1963. 

Dekmejian,  R.H.  "Soviet-Turkish  Relations  and  Politics  in  the 
Armenian  SSR,"  Soviet  Studies,  19,  No.  4,  April  1968,  510-25. 

de  Morgan,  Jacques.  History  of  the  Armenian  People.  (Trans., 
Ernest  F.  Barry.)  Boston:  Hairenik  Press,  n.d. 

des  Pres,  Terrence.  "On  Governing  Narratives:  The 
Turkish-Armenian  Case,"  Yale  Review,  75,  Summer  1986, 
517-31. 

Etmekjian,  James.  The  French  Influence  on  the  Western  Armenian 

Renaissance,  1843-1915.  New  York:  Twayne,  1964. 
Fuller,  Elizabeth.  "Armenia's  Constitutional  Debate,"  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  3,  No.  22,  May  27,  1994,  6-9. 
 .  "Paramilitary  Forces  Dominate  Fighting  in  Transcauca- 

sus,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  25,  June  18, 

1993,  74-82. 

Gidney,  James  B.  A  Mandate  for  Armenia.  Kent,  Ohio:  Kent  State 

University  Press,  1967. 
Goshgarian,  Geoffrey.  "Eghishe  Charents  and  the  'Moderniza- 
tion' of  Soviet  Armenian  Literature,"  Armenian  Review,  36, 

No.  1,  1983,  76-88. 
Hartunian,  Abraham  H.  Neither  to  Laugh  Nor  to  Weep:  A  Memoir  of 

the  Armenian  Genocide.  (Trans.,  Vartan  Hartunian.)  Boston: 

Beacon  Press,  1968. 
Hovannisian,  Richard  G.  The  Armenian  Holocaust:  A  Bibliography 

Relating  to  the  Deportations,  Massacres,  and  Dispersion  of  the 

Armenian  People,  1915-1923.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts: 

Armenian  Heritage  Press,  1978. 
 .  The  Armenian  Republic,  1  and  2.  Berkeley:  University  of 

California  Press,  1971  and  1982. 
 .  "Russian  Armenia:  A  Century  of  Tsarist  Rule,"  Jahr- 

bucher fur  Geschichte  Osteuropas  [Munich],  19,  No.  1,  1971, 

31-48. 

Hovannisian,  Richard  G.  (ed.).  The  Armenian  Genocide  in  Perspec- 
tive. New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1986. 

 .  The  Armenian  Image  in  History  and  Literature.  Malibu, 

California:  Undena  Press,  1981. 

Hovannisian,  Richard  G.,  Stanford  J.  Shaw,  and  Ezel  Kural. 


258 


Bibliography 


"Forum:  The  Armenian  Question,"  International  Journal  of 
Middle  East  Studies,  11,  No.  3,  August  1979,  379-400. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Armenia.  (IMF  Economic 
Reviews,  1/1993.)  Washington:  1993. 

International  Petroleum  Encyclopedia,  1 992.  ( Ed . ,  Jim  West. )  Tu  Is  a: 
PennWell,  1992. 

Jane's  World  Railways,  1993-94.  (Ed.,  James  Abbott.)  Alexan- 
dria, Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1993. 

Katz,  Zev.  "The  Armenian  Church  and  the  WCC:  A  Personal 
View,"  Ecumenical  Review,  40,  July-October  1988,  411-17. 

Katz,  Zev  (ed.).  Handbook  of  Major  Soviet  Nationalities.  New  York: 
Free  Press,  1975. 

Lang,  David  Marshall.  Armenia:  Cradle  of  Civilization.  London: 
Allen  and  Unwin,  1980. 

 .  The  Armenians:  A  People  in  Exile.  London:  Allen  and 

Unwin,  1981. 

Lang,  David  Marshall,  and  Christopher  J.  Walker.  The  Arme- 
nians. (Minority  Rights  Group  Report  No.  32.)  London: 
Minority  Rights  Group,  1976. 

Libaridian,  Gerard  J.  The  Karabagh  File:  Documents  and  Facts  on 
the  Question  of  Mountainous  Karabagh,  1918-1988.  Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts:  Zoryan  Institute,  1988. 

Lloyd's  Ports  of  the  World,  1988.  (Ed.,  Paul  J.  Cuny.)  Colchester, 
United  Kingdom:  Lloyd's  of  London,  1988. 

Lynch,  H.F.B.  Armenia:  Travels  and  Studies.  (2  vols.)  Beirut: 
Khayats,  1965. 

Matossian,  Mary  Kilbourne.  The  Impact  of  Soviet  Policies  in  Arme- 
nia. Leiden,  Netherlands:  E.J.  Brill,  1962. 

The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995.  London:  Brassey's  for  Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1994. 

Mirak,  Robert.  "Armenians."  Pages  136-49  in  Steven  Thern- 
strom  (ed.),  Harvard  Encyclopedia  of  American  Ethnic  Groups. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1980. 

Nalbandian,  Louise.  The  Armenian  Revolutionary  Movement:  The 
Development  of  Armenian  Political  Parties  Through  the  Nine- 
teenth Century.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1963. 

National  Democratic  Movement  in  Armenia.  Armenia  at  the 
Crossroads:  Democracy  and  Nationhood  in  the  Post-Soviet  Era. 
Water  town,  Massachusetts:  Blue  Crane,  1991. 

Noble,  John  S.,  and  John  King.  USSR:  A  Travel  Survival  Kit.  Ber- 
keley, California:  Lonely  Planet,  1993. 

Pipes,  Richard.  The  Formation  of  the  Soviet  Union:  Communism  and 
Nationalism,  1917-1923.  New  York:  Atheneum,  1968. 


259 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Rakowska-Harmstone,  Teresa.  "The  Dialectics  of  Nationalism 

in  the  USSR,"  Problems  of  Communism,  13,  No.  3,  1974,  1-22. 
Sarkissian,  Karekin.  "The  Armenian  Church."  Pages  482-520  in 

AJ.  Arberry  (ed.),  Religion  in  the  Middle  East,  1.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 
Sarkisyanz,  Manuel.  A  Modern  History  of  Trans  Caucasian  Armenia: 

Social,  Cultural,  and  Political.  Leiden,  Netherlands:  EJ.  Brill. 

1975. 

Shaw,  Stanford  J.,  and  Ezel  Kural.  History  of  the  Ottoman  Empire 
and  Modern  Turkey.  (2  vols.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity Press,  1977. 

Sheehy,  Ann,  and  Elizabeth  Fuller.  "Armenia  and  Armenians  in 
the  USSR:  Nationality  and  Language  Aspects  of  the  Census 
of  1979,"  Radio  Liberty  Research  Bulletin  [Munich],  24,  No. 
22,  June  13,  1980. 

Smith,  Anthony  D.  The  Ethnic  Origins  of  Nations.  Oxford:  Black- 
well,  1986. 

Suny,  Ronald  G.  Armenia  in  the  Twentieth  Century.  Chico,  Califor- 
nia: Scholars  Press,  1983. 

 .  The  Baku  Commune,  1917-1918:  Class  and  Nationality  in 

the  Russian  Revolution.  Princeton:  Princeton  Universitv 
Press,  1972. 

 .  "Incomplete  Revolution:  National  Movements  and  the 

Collapse  of  the  Soviet  Empire,"  New  Left  Review,  No.  189, 
September-October  1991,  111-26. 

 .  Looking  Toward  Ararat:  Armenia  in  Modern  History. 

Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1993. 

 .  "Nationalism  and  Democracy  in  Gorbachev's  Soviet 

Union:  The  Case  of  Karabagh,"  Michigan  Quarterly  Review, 
28,  No.  4,  481-506. 

 .  "The  Revenge  of  the  Past:  Socialism  and  Ethnic  Con- 
flict in  Transcaucasia,"  New  Left  Review,  No.  184,  Nov- 
ember-December 1990,  5-34. 

Suny,  Ronald  G.  (ed.).  Transcaucasia:  Nationalism  and  Social 
Change:  Essays  in  the  History  of  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Geor- 
gia. Ann  Arbor:  Michigan  Slavic  Publications,  1983. 

Sutton,  Peter.  "A  View  of  Soviet  Armenia,"  Contemporary  Review, 
No.  246,  May  4,  1985,  251-54. 

Sweeney,  Padraic  (ed.).  The  Transportation  Handbook  for  Russia 
and  the  Former  Soviet  Union.  Arlington,  Virginia:  ASET/ICI, 
1993. 

Ter  Minassian,  Anahide.  Nationalism  and  Socialism  in  the  Arme- 
nian Revolutionary  Movement.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts: 


260 


Bibliography 


Zoryan  Institute,  1984. 

 .  La  Republique  d'Armenie.  Paris:  Editions  Complexes, 

1989. 

Thernstrom,  Steven  (ed.).  Harvard  Encyclopedia  of  American  Eth- 
nic Groups.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1980. 

Thorossian,  H.  Histoire  de  la  litterature  armenienne:  Des  origines 
jusqu'd  nos  jours.  Paris:  n.p.,  1951. 

Timofeyev,  A.  Motorist's  Guide  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Moscow: 
Progress,  1980. 

Toynbee,  Arnold  J.  Armenian  Atrocities:  The  Murder  of  a  Nation. 
London:  Hodder  and  Stoughton,  1915. 

Tremlett,  P.I.  (ed.).  Thomas  Cook  Overseas  Timetable.  Thorpe 
Wood,  United  Kingdom:  Thomas  Cook,  1994. 

United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  Center 
for  International  Health  Information.  Armenia:  USAID 
Health  Profile.  Arlington,  Virginia:  1992. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Handbook  of  International 

Economic  Statistics,  1993.  Washington:  GPO,  1993. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  USSR  Energy  Atlas.  Wash- 
ington: 1985. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1994. 

Washington:  1994. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  Business  Information  Ser- 
vice for  the  Newly  Independent  States.  Economic  Profile  of 
Armenia.  Washington:  1993. 

 .  Department  of  State.  "Armenia,"  U.S.  Department  of 

State  Dispatch,  5,  May  2,  1994,  255-57. 

Walker,  Christopher  J.  "Armenia:  A  Nation  in  Asia,"  Asian 
Affairs,  19,  February  1988,  20-35. 

 .  Armenia:  The  Survival  of  a  Nation.  New  York:  St.  Martin's 

Press,  1980. 

Walker,  Christopher  J.  (ed.).  Armenia  and  Karabagh:  The  Struggle 
for  Unity.  London:  Minority  Rights  Group,  1991. 

Woff,  Richard.  "The  Armed  Forces  of  Armenia,"  Jane's  Intelli- 
gence Review  [London],  6,  September  1994,  387-91. 

World  Bank.  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the  Former 
USSR  (Studies  of  Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No. 
1.)  Washington:  1992. 

 .  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former  USSR.  (Studies 

of  Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No.  3.)  Washing- 
ton: 1992. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Armenian  Assembly  of  Amer- 


261 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

ica,  Monthly  Digest  of  News  from  Armenia;  and  Foreign  Broadcast 
Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Central  Eurasia,  FBIS  Report: 
Central  Eurasia,  and  JPRS  Report:  Environmental  Issues. ) 

Chapter  2 

Afandiiev,  Rasim.  Folk  Art  of  Azerbaijan.  Baku:  Ishyg,  1984. 

Akiner,  Shirin.  Islamic  Peoples  of  the  Soviet  Union.  (2d  ed.)  Lon- 
don: Roudedge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1986. 

Alstadt,  Audrey  L.  "The  Azerbaijani  Bourgeoisie  and  the  Cul- 
tural-Enlightenment Movement  in  Baku:  First  Steps  Toward 
Nationalism."  In  Ronald  G.  Suny  (ed.),  Transcaucasia: 
Nationalism  and  Social  Change:  Essays  in  the  History  of  Arme- 
nia, Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia.  Ann  Arbor:  Michigan  Slavic 
Publications,  1983. 

 .  The  Azerbaijani  Turks:  Power  and  Identity  under  Russian 

Rule.  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1992. 

Apostolou,  Andrew,  Amberin  Zaman,  and  Naritza  Matossian. 
"Central  Asia:  New  Players  in  an  Old  Game,"  Middle  East, 
No.  213,  July  1992,  5-10. 

Bennigsen,  Alexandre,  and  Marie  Broxup.  The  Islamic  Threat  to 
the  Soviet  State.  London:  Croom  Helm,  1983. 

Bennigsen,  Alexandre,  Marie  Broxup,  and  S.  Enders  Wimbush. 
Muslims  of  the  Soviet  Empire:  A  Guide.  Bloomington:  Indiana 
University  Press,  1986. 

"Dangerous  Liaisons  in  Transcaucasia,"  Intelligence  Digest,  Feb- 
ruary 18,  1994,  3-4. 

Davis,  Christopher  M.  "Health  Care  Crisis:  The  Former  Soviet 
Union,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  40,  Octo- 
ber 8,  1993,  35-43. 

Dragadze,  Tamara.  "Azerbaijanis."  Pages  163-79  in  Graham 
Smith  (ed.),  The  Nationalities  Question  in  the  Soviet  Union. 
London:  Longman,  1990. 

TheEuropa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

TheEuropa  World  Year  Book,  1994,  1.  London:  Europa,  1994. 

Fawcett,  Louise  l'Estrange.  Iran  and  the  Cold  War:  The  Azerbaijan 
Crisis  of  1946.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1992. 

Frelick,  Bill.  Faultlines  of  Nationality  Conflict:  Refugees  and  Dis- 
placed Persons  from  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan.  Washington:  U.S. 
Committee  for  Refugees,  1994. 

Fuller,  Elizabeth.  "Azerbaijan's  June  Revolution,"  RFE/RL 
Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  32,  August  13,  1993,  24-29. 

 .  "Azerbaijan's  Relations  with  Russia  and  the  CIS,"  RFE/ 


262 


Bibliography 


RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  43,  October  30,  1992, 
52-55. 

 .  "Ethnic  Strife  Threatens  Democratization,"  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  1,  January  1,  1993,  17-24. 

 .  "The  Karabakh  Mediation  Process:  Grachev  Versus  the 

CSCE?"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  3,  No.  23,  June 
10,  1994,  13-17. 

 .  "Paramilitary  Forces  Dominate  Fighting  in  Transcauca- 

sus,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report,  2,  No.  25,  June  18,  1993,  74- 
82. 

 .  "Russia,  Turkey,  Iran,  and  the  Karabakh  Mediation 

Process,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  3,  No.  8,  Febru- 
ary 25,  1994,  31-36. 

Goble,  Paul  A.  "Coping  with  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  Crisis," 
Fletcher  Forum  of  World  Affairs,  16,  Summer  1992,  19-26. 

Golden,  Peter.  "The  Turkic  Peoples  and  Transcaucasia."  Pages 
45-68  in  Ronald  G.  Suny  (ed.),  Transcaucasia:  Nationalism 
and  Social  Change:  Essays  in  the  History  of  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
and  Georgia.  Ann  Arbor:  Michigan  Slavic  Publications,  1983. 

Henry,  J. D.  Baku:  An  Eventful  History.  London:  Constable,  1905. 
Reprint.  New  York:  Arno  Press,  1977. 

Hostler,  Charles  W.  Turkism  and  the  Soviets.  London:  Allen  and 
Unwin,  1957. 

Huddle,  Frank,  Jr.  "Azerbaidzhan  and  the  Azerbaidzhanis," 

Pages  189-210  in  Zev  Katz  (ed.),  Handbook  of  Major  Soviet 

Nationalities.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1975. 
Ibrahimov,  Mirza  (ed.).  Azerbaijanian  Poetry:  Classic,  Modern, 

Traditional  Moscow:  Progress,  1969. 
International  Monetary  Fund.  Economic  Review:  Azerbaijan. 

Washington:  1992. 
International  Petroleum  Encyclopedia,  1992.  (Ed.,  Jim  West.)  Tulsa: 

PennWell,  1992. 
Jane's  World  Railways,  1993-94.  (Ed.,  James  Abbott.)  Alexan- 
dria, Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1993. 
Katz,  Zev  (ed.).  Handbook  of  Major  Soviet  Nationalities.  New  York: 

Free  Press,  1975. 
Kazemzadeh,  Firuz.  The  Struggle  for  Transcaucasia,  1917-1921. 

New  York:  Philosophical  Library,  1951. 
Lloyd's  Ports  of  the  World,  1988.  (Ed.,  Paul  J.  Cuny.)  Colchester, 

United  Kingdom:  Lloyd's  of  London,  1988. 
Maggs,  William  Ward.  "Armenia  and  Azerbaijan:  Looking 

Toward  the  Middle  East,"  Current  History,  92,  January  1993, 

6-11. 


263 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995.  London:  Brassey's  for  Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1994. 

Nissman,  David.  "The  National  Reawakening  of  Azerbaijan," 
World  and  I, 7,  February  1992,  80-85. 

Noble,  John  S.,  and  John  King.  USSR:  A  Travel  Survival  Kit.  Ber- 
keley, California:  Lonely  Planet,  1993. 

Pipes,  Richard.  The  Formation  of  the  Soviet  Union:  Communism  and 
Nationalism,  1917-1923.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1964. 

Richards,  Susan.  Epics  of  Everyday  Life:  Encounters  in  a  Changing 
Russia.  New  York:  Viking  Press,  1990. 

Saroyan,  Mark.  "The  'Karabakh  Syndrome'  and  Azerbaijani  Pol- 
itics," Problems  of  Communism,  39,  September-October  1990, 
14-29. 

Sobhani,  Sohrab  C.  "Azerbaijan:  A  People  in  Search  of  Inde- 
pendence," Global  Affairs,  6,  Winter  1991,  40-53. 

The  Statesman's  Year-Book,  1994-1995.  (Ed.,  Brian  Hunter.)  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1994. 

Sturino,  John.  "Nagorno-Karabakh:  The  Roots  of  Conflict,"  Sur- 
viving Together,  11,  Spring  1993,  10-14. 

Suny,  Ronald  G.  The  Baku  Commune,  1917-1918:  Class  and 
Nationality  in  the  Russian  Revolution.  Princeton:  Princeton 
University  Press,  1972. 

Suny,  Ronald  G.  (ed.).  Transcaucasia:  Nationalism  and  Social 
Change:  Essays  in  the  History  of  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Geor- 
gia. Ann  Arbor:  Michigan  Slavic  Publications,  1983. 

Sweeney,  Padraic  (ed.).  The  Transportation  Handbook  for  Russia 
and  the  Former  Soviet  Union.  Arlington,  Virginia:  ASET/ICI, 
1993. 

Swietochowski,  Tadeusz.  "Azerbaijan:  Between  Ethnic  Conflict 
and  Irredentism,"  Armenian  Review,  43,  Summer-Autumn 
1990,  35-49. 

 — .  "National  Consciousness  and  Political  Orientations  in 

Azerbaijan,  1905-1920."  Pages  209-38  in  Ronald  G.  Suny 
(ed.),  Transcaucasia:  Nationalism  and  Social  Change:  Essays  in 
the  History  of  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia.  Ann  Arbor: 
Michigan  Slavic  Publications,  1983. 

 .  Russian  Azerbaijan,  1905-1920:  The  Shaping  of  National 

Identity  in  a  Muslim  Community.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Uni- 
versity Press,  1985. 

Timofeyev,  A.  Motorist's  Guide  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Moscow: 
Progress,  1980. 

Tremlett,  P.I.  (ed.).  Thomas  Cook  Overseas  Timetable.  Thorpe 


264 


Bibliography 


Wood,  United  Kingdom:  Thomas  Cook,  1994. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Handbook  of  Interna- 
tional Economic  Statistics,  1993.  Washington:  GPO,  1993. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  USSR  Energy  Atlas.  Wash- 
ington: 1985. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1994. 

Washington:  1994. 

Weekes,  Richard  W.  (ed.).  The  Muslim  Peoples:  A  World  Ethno- 
graphic Survey.  (2d  ed.)  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood 
Press,  1984. 

World  Bank.  Azerbaijan:  From  Crisis  to  Sustained  Growth.  (A  World 

Bank  Country  Study.)  Washington:  1993. 
 .  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the  Former  USSR 

(Studies  of  Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No.  1.) 

Washington:  1992. 
 .  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former  USSR  (Studies  of 

Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No.  3.)  Washington: 

1992. 

Yefendizade,  R.M.  Architecture  of  Soviet  Azerbaijan.  Moscow:  Stroi- 
izdat,  1986. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information 
Service,  Daily  Report:  Central  Eurasia  and  FBIS  Report:  Central 
Eurasia.) 

Chapter  3 

Benet,  Sula.  Abkhazians:  The  Long-Living  People  of  the  Caucasus. 

New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart  and  Winston,  1974. 
Bremmer,  Ian,  and  Ray  Taras  (eds.).  Nations  and  Politics  in  the 

Soviet  Successor  States.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 

Press,  1993. 

Dale,  Catherine.  "Turmoil  in  Abkhazia:  Russian  Responses," 
RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  34,  August  27, 
1993,  48-57. 

Davis,  Christopher  M.  "Health  Care  Crisis:  The  Former  Soviet 
Union,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  40,  Octo- 
ber 8,  1993,  35-43. 

Dragadze,  Tamara.  "Conflict  in  the  Transcaucasus  and  the 
Value  of  Inventory  Control,"  Jane's  Intelligence  Review  [Lon- 
don], 6,  No.  2,  February  1994,  71-73. 

TheEuropa  World  Year  Book,  1993,  1.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

TheEuropa  World  Year  Book,  1994,  1.  London:  Europa,  1994. 

Fuller,  Elizabeth.  "Eduard  Shevardnadze's  Via  Dolorosa,"  RFE/ 


265 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  43,  October  29,  1993, 
17-23. 

 .  "Georgia,  Abkhazia,  and  Checheno-Ingushetia,"  RFE/ 

RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  5,  February  5,  1992,  3- 
7. 

 .   "The  Georgian  Parliamentary  Elections,"  RFE/RL 

Research  Report  [Munich],  1,  No.  47,  November  27,  1992,  1- 
4. 

 .  "Georgia  Since  Independence:  Plus  £a  Change  .  .  .," 

Current  History,  92,  October  1993,  342-46. 
 .  "Paramilitary  Forces  Dominate  Fighting  in  Transcauca- 

sus,"  RFE/RL  Research  Report  [Munich],  2,  No.  25,  June  18, 

1993,  74-82. 

Holisky,  Dee  Ann.  "The  Rules  of  the  Supra  or  How  to  Drink  in 
Georgian,"  Journal  for  the  Study  of  Caucasia,  1,  No.  1,  1-20. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Economic  Review:  Georgia.  Wash- 
ington: 1992. 

International  Petroleum  Encyclopedia,  1992.  (Ed.,  Jim  West.)  Tulsa: 
PennWell,  1992. 

Jane's  World  Railways,  1993-94.  (Ed.,  James  Abbott.)  Alexan- 
dria, Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1993. 

Jones,  Stephen.  "The  Caucasian  Mountain  Railway  Project:  A 
Victory  for  Glasnost'?"  Central  Asian  Survey,  8,  No.  2,  1989, 
47-59. 

 .  "A  Failed  Democratic  Transition."  Pages  288-310  in 

Ian  Bremmer  and  Ray  Taras  (eds.),  Nations  and  Politics  in  the 
Soviet  Successor  States.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1993. 

 .  "Religion  and  Nationalism  in  Soviet  Georgia  and 

Armenia."  Pages  171-95  in  Pedro  Ramet  (ed.),  Religion  and 
Nationalism  in  Soviet  and  East  European  Politics.  Durham: 
Duke  University  Press,  1989. 

Katz,  Zev  (ed.).  Handbook  of  Major  Soviet  Nationalities.  New  York: 
Free  Press,  1975. 

Lang,  David  Marshall.  The  Georgians.  London:  Thames  and 
Hudson,  1966. 

 .  A  Modern  History  of  Soviet  Georgia.  New  York:  Grove 

Press,  1962. 

Lloyd's  Ports  of  the  World,  1988.  (Ed.,  Paul  J.  Cuny.)  Colchester, 

United  Kingdom:  Lloyd's  of  London,  1988. 
Mars,  Gerald,  and  Yochanan  Altman.  "The  Cultural  Bases  of 

Soviet  Georgia's  Second  Economy,"  Soviet  Studies,  35,  No.  4, 

October  1983,  546-60. 


266 


Bibliography 

The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995.  London:  Brassey's  for  Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1994. 

Nichol,  James.  "Georgia  in  Transition:  Context  and  Implica- 
tions for  U.S.  Interests,"  Congressional  Research  Service  Report. 
(No.  93794.)  Washington:  Library  of  Congress,  Congres- 
sional Research  Service,  August  24,  1993. 

Noble,  John  S.,  and  John  King.  USSR:  A  Travel  Survival  Kit.  Ber- 
keley, California:  Lonely  Planet,  1993. 

Parsons,  Robert.  "Georgians."  Pages  180-96  in  Graham  Smith 
(ed.),  The  Nationalities  Question  in  the  Soviet  Union.  New  York: 
Longman,  1990. 

Ramet,  Pedro  (ed.).  Religion  and  Nationalism  in  Soviet  and  East 
European  Politics.  Durham:  Duke  University  Press,  1989. 

Rosen,  Roger.  The  Georgian  Republic.  Lincolnwood,  Illinois:  Pass- 
port Books,  1992. 

Rustaveli,  Shota.  The  Knight  in  the  Panther's  Skin.  (Trans.,  Venera 
Urushadze.)  Tbilisi:  Sabchota  Sakartvelo,  1986. 

Salia,  Kalis tr at.  History  of  the  Georgian  Nation.  (Trans.,  Katharine 
Vivian.)  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Academie  Francaise,  1983. 

Sebag-Montefiore,  Simon.  "Eduard  Shevardnadze,"  New  York 
Times  Magazine,  December  26,  1993,  16-19. 

Shevardnadze,  Eduard.  The  Future  Belongs  to  Freedom.  New  York: 
Free  Press,  1991. 

Slider,  Darrell.  "Crisis  and  Response  in  Soviet  Nationality  Pol- 
icy: The  Case  of  Abkhazia,"  Central  Asian  Survey,  4,  No.  4, 
1985,  51-68. 

 .  "Party-Sponsored  Public  Opinion  Research  in  the 

Soviet  Union,"  Journal  of  Politics,  47,  No.  1,  February  1985, 
209-27. 

 .  "The  Politics  of  Georgia's  Independence,"  Problems  of 

Communism,  40,  No.  6,  November-December  1991,  63-79. 

Smith,  Graham  (ed.).  The  Nationalities  Question  in  the  Soviet 
Union.  New  York:  Longman,  1990. 

The  Statesman's  Year-Book,  1993-1994.  (Ed.,  Brian  Hunter.)  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1994. 

Suny,  Ronald  G.  The  Making  of  the  Georgian  Nation.  Blooming- 
ton:  Indiana  University  Press,  1988. 

Sweeney,  Padraic  (ed.).  The  Transportation  Handbook  for  Russia 
and  the  Former  Soviet  Union.  Arlington,  Virginia:  ASET/ICI, 
1993. 

Timofeyev,  A.  Motorist's  Guide  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Moscow: 
Progress,  1980. 

Tremlett,  P.I.  (ed.).  Thomas  Cook  Overseas  Timetable.  Thorpe 


267 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Wood,  United  Kingdom:  Thomas  Cook,  1994. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Handbook  of  Interna- 
tional Economic  Statistics,  1 993.  Washington:  GPO,  1993. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  USSR  Energy  Atlas.  Wash- 
ington: 1985. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1994. 

Washington:  1994. 

 .  Congress.  Commission  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in 

Europe.  Human  Rights  and  Democratization  in  the  Newly  Inde- 
pendent States  of  the  Former  Soviet  Union.  Washington:  1993. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  Business  Information  Ser- 
vice for  the  Newly  Independent  States.  Georgia.  Washing- 
ton: 1993. 

World  Bank.  Food  and  Agricultural  Policy  Reforms  in  the  Former 

USSR  (Studies  of  Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No. 

1.)  Washington:  1992. 
 .  Georgia:  A  Blueprint  for  Reforms.  (A  World  Bank  Country 

Study.)  Washington:  1993. 
 .  Statistical  Handbook:  States  of  the  Former  USSR.  (Studies  of 

Economies  in  Transformation,  Paper  No.  3.)  Washington: 

1992. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Caucasian  Institute  for  Peace, 
Democracy,  and  Development,  Georgian  Chronicle  [Tbilisi] ;  and 
Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Soviet 
Union,  Daily  Report:  Central  Eurasia,  and  FBIS  Report:  Central  Eur- 
asia.) 


268 


Glossary 


Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS) — Official  desig- 
nation of  the  former  republics  of  the  Soviet  Union  that 
remained  loosely  federated  in  economic  and  security  mat- 
ters of  common  concern  after  the  Soviet  Union  disbanded 
as  a  unified  state  in  1991.  Members  in  early  1994  were 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Georgia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyr- 
gyzstan,  Moldova,  Russia,  Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan, 
Ukraine,  and  Uzbekistan. 

Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union  (CPSU) — The  official 
name  of  the  communist  party  in  the  Soviet  Union  after 
1952.  Originally  the  Bolshevik  (majority)  faction  of  a  pre- 
revolutionary  Russian  party,  the  party  was  named  the  Rus- 
sian Communist  Party  (Bolshevik)  from  1918  until  it  was 
renamed  in  1952. 

Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE) — 
Originating  in  Helsinki  in  1975,  a  grouping  of  all  Euro- 
pean nations  (the  only  exception,  Albania,  joined  in  1991) 
that  has  sponsored  joint  sessions  and  consultations  on 
political  issues  vital  to  European  security. 

Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  Treaty  (CFE  Treaty) — An 
agreement  signed  in  1990  by  the  members  of  the  Warsaw 
Treaty  Organization  (Warsaw  Pact — q.v.)  and  the  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO — q.v.)  to  establish 
parity  in  conventional  weapons  between  the  two  organiza- 
tions from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Urals.  Included  a  strict  sys- 
tem of  inspections  and  information  exchange. 

coupon — Generic  term  for  bank-issued  national  currency  cer- 
tificates of  Georgia,  introduced  in  early  1993.  After  intro- 
duction, value  declined  rapidly;  in  January  1994,  the 
exchange  rate  was  approximately  186,000  coupons  per 
US$1. 

dram — National  currency  of  Armenia,  officially  established  for 
use  concurrent  with  the  Russian  ruble  in  November  1993, 
became  single  official  currency  in  early  1994.  In  February 
1994,  the  exchange  rate  was  approximately  15  drams  per 
US$1.  A  second  national  unit,  the  luma  (100  to  the  dram), 
was  introduced  in  February  1994. 

glasnost — Russian  term,  literally  meaning  "openness."  Applied 
in  the  Soviet  Union  beginning  in  the  mid-1980s  to  official 


269 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

permission  for  public  discussion  of  issues  and  public 
access  to  information.  Identified  with  the  tenure  of 
Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  as  leader  of  the  Soviet  Union. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — The  total  value  of  goods  and 
services  produced  exclusively  within  a  nation's  domestic 
economy,  in  contrast  to  the  gross  national  product  (q.v.). 
Normally  computed  over  one-year  periods. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — The  total  value  of  goods  and 
services  produced  within  a  country's  borders  and  the 
income  received  from  abroad  by  residents,  minus  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  by  nonresidents.  Normally  com- 
puted over  one-year  periods. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  in  1945,  a 
specialized  agency  affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and 
responsible  for  stabilizing  international  exchange  rates 
and  payments.  Its  main  business  is  providing  loans  to  its 
members  when  they  experience  balance  of  payments  diffi- 
culties. 

Kurds — A  mainly  Muslim  people  speaking  an  Indo-European 
language  similar  to  Persian.  Kurds  constitute  significant 
minorities  in  Iran,  Iraq,  and  Turkey,  with  smaller  groups  in 
Armenia  and  Syria.  Despite  international  proposals  in 
response  to  minority  persecution,  never  united  in  a  single 
state. 

manat — National  currency  of  Azerbaijan.  Introduced  in  mid- 
1992  for  use  concurrent  with  the  ruble;  became  sole  offi- 
cial currency  in  January  1994.  Classified  in  1994  as  a  "soft" 
currency,  hence  nonconvertible. 

millet — In  the  Ottoman  Empire,  the  policy  for  governance  of 
non-Muslim  minorities.  The  system  created  autonomous 
communities  ruled  by  religious  leaders  responsible  to  the 
central  government. 

net  material  product  (NMP) — In  countries  having  centrally 
planned  economies,  the  official  measure  of  the  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  within  the  country.  Roughly 
equivalent  to  the  gross  national  product  (q.v.),  NMP  is 
based  on  constant  prices  and  does  not  account  for  depre- 
ciation. 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO) — During  the  post- 
war period  until  the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1991,  the  primary  collective  defense  agreement  of  the 
Western  powers  against  the  military  presence  of  the  War- 
saw Pact  (q.v.)  nations  in  Europe.  Founded  1949.  Its  mili- 


270 


Glossary 


tary  and  administrative  structure  remained  intact  after 
1991,  but  early  in  1994  the  Partnership  for  Peace  proposed 
phased  membership  to  all  East  European  nations  and 
many  former  republics  of  the  Soviet  Union. 

perestroika — Russian  term  meaning  "restructuring."  Applied  in 
the  late  1980s  to  an  official  Soviet  program  of  revitalization 
of  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union  (CPSU — q.v.), 
the  economy,  and  the  society  by  adjusting  economic, 
social,  and  political  mechanisms  in  the  central  planning 
system.  Identified  with  the  tenure  of  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev 
as  leader  of  the  Soviet  Union. 

Shia — The  smaller  of  the  great  two  divisions  of  Islam,  support- 
ing the  claims  of  Ali  to  leadership  of  the  Muslim  commu- 
nity, in  opposition  to  the  Sunni  (q.v.)  view  of  succession  to 
Muslim  leadership — the  issue  causing  the  central  schism 
within  Islam. 

Sunni— The  larger  of  the  two  fundamental  divisions  of  Islam, 
opposed  to  the  Shia  (q.v.)  on  the  issue  of  succession  of 
Muslim  leadership. 

value-added  tax  (VAT) — A  tax  applied  to  the  additional  value 
created  at  a  given  stage  of  production  and  calculated  as  a 
percentage  of  the  difference  between  the  product  value  at 
that  stage  and  the  cost  of  all  materials  and  services  pur- 
chased or  introduced  as  inputs. 

Volunteer  Society  for  Assistance  to  the  Army,  Air  Force,  and 
Navy  (DOSAAF) — In  the  Soviet  national  defense  system, 
the  agency  responsible  for  paramilitary  training  of  youth 
and  reserve  components. 

Warsaw  Pact — Informal  name  for  the  Warsaw  Treaty  Organiza- 
tion, a  mutual  defense  organization  founded  in  1955. 
Included  the  Soviet  Union,  Albania  (which  withdrew  in 
1968),  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia,  the  German  Democratic 
Republic  (East  Germany),  Hungary,  Poland,  and  Roma- 
nia. The  Warsaw  Pact  enabled  the  Soviet  Union  to  station 
troops  in  the  countries  of  Eastern  Europe  to  oppose  the 
forces  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO — 
q.v.).  The  pact  was  the  basis  for  the  invasions  of  Hungary 
(1956)  and  Czechoslovakia  (1968).  Disbanded  in  July 
1991. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  for  a  group  of  four  affiliated 
international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD);  the  Interna- 
tional Development  Association  (IDA);  the  International 


271 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 

Finance  Corporation  (IFC);  and  the  Multilateral  Invest- 
ment Guarantee  Agency  (MIGA).  The  four  institutions  are 
owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe 
their  capital  for  credit  and  investment  in  developing  coun- 
tries; each  institution  has  a  specialized  agenda  for  aiding 
economic  growth  in  target  countries.  To  participate  in  the 
World  Bank  group,  member  states  must  first  belong  to  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


272 


Index 


Abdullayev,  Rafik,  132 

Abkhazian  Autonomous  Republic,  165, 
174-75;  Abkhaz  in,  179;  cease-fire  in, 
xxviii,  xlv,  xlix,  175;  elections  in,  208, 
212;  ethnic  groups  in,  179,  218;  Geor- 
gians in,  liii,  179;  language  in,  179, 
187;  materiel  for,  225;  military  advisers 
in,  225;  mining  in,  196;  peace  talks, 
liv-lv;  Russians  in,  179;  Russian  sup- 
port for,  174,  224;  separatist  move- 
ment in,  xxv,  xxvii,  xliii,  171;  war  in, 
xxvii-xxviii,  liii,  65,  174,  177,  195,  200, 
201,216,  218-19,  224,  225 

Abkhaz  people,  174;  in  Abkhazia,  179; 
ethnic  background  of,  177;  life  spans 
of,  178 

Abovian,  Khachatur,  37 

Abuladze,  Tengiz,  185 

ACP.  ^Azerbaijani  Communist  Party 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS):  in  Armenia,  41;  in  Georgia, 
189 

Act  of  Independence  (1991)  (Azer- 
baijan), xxxviii,  135 

Administration  for  the  Struggle  Against 
Terrorism  and  Banditry  (Azerbaijan), 
147 

administrative  districts:  of  Armenia,  61 
Adoian,  Vosdanik.  See  Gorky,  Arshile 
Afghanistan:  Azerbaijan's  relations  with, 
138 

agricultural  production:  in  Armenia,  42, 
44;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  116-17,  118; 
in  Georgia,  165,  198;  as  percentage  of 
net  material  product,  118;  under 
Soviet  Union,  42,  198 

agricultural  products  (see  also  under  indi- 
vidual crops):  of  Armenia,  45;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 99,  117-18;  citrus  fruit,  99, 
117-18,  199;  cotton,  117-18,  119;  dis- 
tribution of,  199;  export  of,  199;  of 
Georgia,  191,  198-99;  grain,  199; 
grapes,  117-18,  119,  198;  import  of, 
199;  prices  for,  118,  191;  tea,  99,  119, 
198,  199 


agriculture:  in  Armenia,  42,  44-45;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  91,  115,  116,  117- 
19,  122;  collectivized,  xxv,  92;  diversity 
in,  122;  employment  in,  51,  116;  in 
Georgia,  165,  191,  198-99;  privatiza- 
tion in,  xxv,  198;  problems  in,  199; 
reform  in,  165;  women  in,  45;  work 
force  in,  44 

Agriculture  and  Industrial  Bank  of  Geor- 
gia, 194 

AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

air  force.  See  under  armed  forces 

airports:  in  Armenia,  55-56;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 127;  in  Georgia,  201 

Aivazovsky,  Ivan,  37 

Ajarian  Autonomous  Republic,  179-80 
Akhundov.  See  Akhundzade,  Mirza  Fath 
Ali 

Akhundzade,  Mirza  Fath  Ali  (Akhun- 
dov), 110 

Akstafa  River  valley,  26 

Alaverdy  Metallurgical  Plant:  pollution 
caused  by,  29 

alcohol  abuse,  189 

Aleksandropol'.  See  Gyumri 

Alexander  the  Great,  87-88 

Alexander  I,  159 

Aliyev,  Heydar:  as  Azerbaijani  Commu- 
nist Party  leader,  93,  135;  background 
of,  134-35;  platform  of,  134;  as  presi- 
dent, xxxi,  xxxiii,  xxxix,  lii,  liii,  65,  98, 
107,  129,  134;  removed  from  power, 
93,  135;  returned  to  power,  xxxvii, 
xxxviii,  25, 133-34,  135 

Alma-Ata  Declaration  (1991),  67,  141 

Amasukheli,  Elguja,  184 

American  Bar  Association,  70 

American  Telephone  and  Telegraph 
Company,  56 

American  University  of  Armenia,  50 

Amnesty  International,  136 

Anatolia:  ancient  peoples  in,  9;  Arme- 


273 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


nians  in,  xxviii,  1 1 ,  35 
Antimonopoly  Committee  (Azerbaijan), 
122-23 

APR  See  Azerbaijani  Popular  Front 
APM.  See  Armenian  Pannational  Move- 
ment 

April  Tragedy  (1989),  166,  206,  227 

Arabic  language:  Azerbaijani  literature 
in,  105;  broadcasts  in,  56 

Arab  rule:  of  Armenia,  10-11;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 88;  of  Georgia,  158 

Aras  hydroelectric  plant,  120 

Aras  River,  26,  100 

Aras  River  valley,  26 

Archaemenid  Empire,  88 

architecture:  in  Armenia,  36-37;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 88,  109;  in  Georgia,  184 

area:  of  Armenia,  15,  26;  of  Azerbaijan, 
99;  of  Georgia,  1 75 

ARE  See  Armenian  Revolutionary  Feder- 
ation 

Argentina:  Armenian  trade  with,  57 
armed  forces  of  Armenia,  xxxii,  1,  70, 
72-76;  conscription  into,  73;  desertion 
of,  73;  mercenaries  in,  77;  missions  of, 
72;  officers  in,  73;  reserves,  74-75;  size 
of,  72,  74;  structure  of,  72-73;  training 
of,  74 

armed  forces  of  Azerbaijan ,  141; 
attempts  to  form,  xxxix,  141-42;  com- 
mander in  chief  of,  142;  conscripts  in, 
143;  defense  strategy  of,  144;  deser- 
tion of,  145;  materiel  of,  142,  144; 
mercenaries  in,  143,  144;  military 
assistance  to,  143;  officers  of,  143;  size 
of,  142,  143;  structure  of,  143;  training 
of,  142,  143 

armed  forces  of  Georgia,  liv;  attempt  to 
form,  xlv,  xlviii,  226-27,  228;  conscrip- 
tion for,  227-28;  ineffectiveness  of, 
xliv;  materiel  of,  228;  recruitment  rate 
of,  227 

armed  forces  of  the  Soviet  Union,  227; 
Azerbaijan  is  in,  142,  143 

Armenian  Apostolic  Church:  authority 
of,  11;  doctrine  of,  34;  founders  of,  33; 
in  Georgia,  183;  language  used  in,  33; 
members  of,  35,  107;  religious  train- 
ing by,  35;  role  in  maintaining  Arme- 
nian  culture,  34;  structural 
organization  of,  34-35;  ties  with  Arme- 
nian Revolutionary  Federation,  34 


Armenian  diaspora,  xxviii,  30,  35-36 

Armenian  Electrical  Machine  Plant,  li 

Armenian  emigres,  11,  15,  19,  30,  34,  35, 
65,  96,  102;  as  citizens  of  Armenia,  23; 
financial  assistance  from,  50 

Armenian  Empire,  10;  conquered  by 
Romans,  10 

Armenian  language,  xxiv,  9,  32,  33; 
alphabet  for,  10,  33;  broadcasts  in,  56; 
classical,  33;  dialects  of,  33;  publica- 
tions in,  63;  restrictions  on,  19;  spoken 
by  Georgians,  182 

Armenian  Orthodox  Academy,  35 

Armenian  Orthodox  Church.  See  Arme- 
nian Apostolic  Church 

Armenian  Pannational  Movement 
(APM),  xxxiv;  in  elections  of  1990,  22; 
in  elections  of  1995,  xxxiv;  formed, 
21,  59;  and  Nagorno-Karabakh  con- 
flict, 21;  publications  of,  63;  support 
for,  62;  work  of,  on  constitution,  61 

Armenian  people:  in  Azerbaijan,  30, 
102;  conflict  with  Azerbaijanis,  21,  96; 
distribution  of,  35-36;  early,  9;  eco- 
nomic power  of,  160;  etymology  of 
term  for,  9;  expelled  from  Nagorno- 
Karabakh,  25;  in  Georgia,  30,  65,  178; 
living  standards  of,  19;  massacres  of, 
14-15,  20,  29,  30,  35,  38,  61,  94,  96;  as 
merchants,  159-60;  in  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh, 19,  96,  102;  origins  of,  29-30; 
outside  of  Armenia,  xxiii;  protests  by, 
20;  as  refugees,  15,  99;  terrorism  by, 
71;  in  urban  areas,  26,  30,  178 

Armenian  Plateau,  26;  migration  to,  9 

Armenian  question,  13 

Armenian  Revolutionary  Federation 
(ARF),  14;  autonomy  program  of,  15; 
in  election  of  1992,  61;  founded,  61; 
members  of,  61;  platform  of,  14,  61, 
64-65;  publications  of,  63;  support  for, 
61,  62;  ties  with  Armenian  Apostolic 
Church,  34;  work  on  constitution,  61 

Armenian  Union  of  Writers,  63 

Armenia  Railways,  53 

Armenpress,  63 

army.  See  armed  forces 

Army  of  Islam  (Azerbaijan),  91 

Arpa  River,  29 

Arsacid  dynasty,  1 0 

arts:  in  Armenia,  11,  32,  36-37;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 107-9;  in  Georgia,  183-85 


274 


Index 


Artavazd  II,  10 

Artik  prison,  77 

AshotI  (the  Great),  11,  158 

Ashot  the  Great  See  Ashot  I 

Ashot  V.  See  Ashot  I 

ashugs,  108 

Astronomy  (Shirvani),  108 
Ataturk,  Kemal,  16 

Atomic  Power  Station  at  Metsamor, 
xxxiii,  li,  47;  capacity  of,  48;  environ- 
mental problems  caused  by,  18-19; 
reconstruction  of,  24,  47-48 

Atropates,  88 

Australia:  Armenian  trade  with,  57 
autonomous  areas:  of  Georgia,  1 79 
Autonomous  Government  of  Azerbaijan: 

proclaimed,  92 
Avangard  (Armenia),  63 
Avar  people,  103 
Avesta,  108 

Aviation  Training  Center  (Armenia) ,  74 
Azerbaijan  Airlines,  127 
Azerbaijani  Academy  of  Sciences,  112, 
129 

Azerbaijani  Communist  Party  (ACP):  dis- 
banded, 130;  opposition  to,  93-94, 
129;  purge  of,  93;  revived,  xxxviii,  130 

Azerbaijani  language,  xxiv,  19,  104-5, 
112;  alphabet  of,  105-6,  110,  111;  dia- 
lects of,  105;  spoken  by  Georgians,  182 

Azerbaijani  people:  in  Armenia,  29,  31, 
32;  conflict  with  Armenians,  21,  96; 
demonstrations  by,  21;  in  Georgia, 
102,  178,  181,  223;  in  Iran,  xxiii,  92, 
102;  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  96;  riots 
by,  94;  terrorism  by,  24 

Azerbaijani  Popular  Front  (APF) ,  xxx- 
viii, Hi,  129-30;  coup  against,  25;  in 
elections  of  1990,  131;  formed,  129; 
government  of,  66;  KGB  crackdown 
on,  94;  platform  of,  21,  130;  protests 
by,  93-94;  struggle  with  communists, 
24;  support  for,  129 

Azerbaijan  Medical  Institute,  112,  113 

Azerbaijan  Oil  Machinery  Company 
(Azneftemash) ,  119 

Azerbaijan  People's  Democratic  Repub- 
lic: established,  91 

Azeri  oil  field,  120 

Azneftemash.  See  Azerbaijan  Oil 
Machinery  Company 


Babajanian  Military  Boarding  School 

(Armenia) ,  73-74 
BagratV,  158 
Bagratian,  Hrant,  24,  51 
Bagratid  dynasty,  157,  158;  established, 

11 

Baku,  99;  Armenian  refugees  in,  15; 
Azerbaijani  demonstrations  in,  21; 
industry  in,  119;  massacre  of  1989  in, 
94;  oil  exploitation  in,  30,  99;  pollu- 
tion in,  101;  population  of,  90,  101; 
port  of,  127;  refugees  in,  101;  riots  of 
1905  in,  90;  subways  in,  109,  127 

Baku  1501  (Jafarzade),  110 

Baku  Higher  Arms  Command  School, 
143 

Baku  International  Airport,  127 

Bank  for  Foreign  Economic  Affairs 
(Armenia) ,  52 

Bank  for  Industry  and  Construction 
(Georgia),  194 

banking:  in  Armenia,  52;  in  Azerbaijan, 
124;  in  Georgia,  xlvii,  194 

Bargushat  River,  26 

Bartholomew  (apostle),  33 

Basic  Law  on  the  Environment  (Arme- 
nia), 28 

Basilia,  Temur,  liv 

Batiashvili,  Irakli,  229 

Batumi:  port  of,  176,  201,  202-3;  univer- 
sity in,  186 

Bazbeukh-Melikian,  Alexander,  37 

Belarus:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125; 
military  training  of  Armenians  by,  74 

Beria,  Lavrenti:  purges  by,  1 8 

birth  defects:  in  Azerbaijan,  101 

birth  rate:  in  Armenia,  31;  in  Azerbaijan, 
102 

Bishkek  Protocol,  xxxiii,  xxxix-xl,  xli 
black  market.  See  economy,  informal 
Black  Sea,  27;  oil  explorations  in,  xlvii; 

pollution  in,  177 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Orga- 
nization: Azerbaijan's  membership  in, 
140;  Georgia's  membership  in,  225 
blockade:  of  Armenia  by  Azerbaijan,  xxv, 
xxviii,  xxx,  xxxviii,  xlix,  21,  140;  eco- 
nomic effects  of,  24,  41,  50,  53,  56; 
environmental  effects  of,  29;  of  Geor- 
gia, 192;  health  effects  of,  xxix,  40 
Bolsheviks,  90;  Marxist  republic  declared 
by,  90-91;  struggle  with  Mensheviks, 


275 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


162-63 

Book  of  Complaints,  A  (Fuzuli),  108 

Book  ofDedeKorkut,  The,  108 

Border  Guards  (Soviet  Union),  142,  143 

borders:  of  Armenia,  25-26,  72,  99,  175; 
of  Azerbaijan,  25-26,  92,  99,  175;  of 
Georgia,  25-26,  99,  175 

border  security:  of  Armenia,  76;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 143,  146 

Brecht,  Bertold,  185 

Brezhnev,  Leonid  I.,  93 

Britain:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125; 
occupation  of  Azerbaijan  by,  91 

Budapest  agreement  (November  1994), 
Hi 

budget,  government:  of  Armenia,  52-53; 
of  Azerbaijan,  123-24;  of  Georgia,  liv, 
194-95 

budget  deficit:  in  Armenia,  xxix,  41 ,  53; 
in  Azerbaijan,  lii,  124;  in  Georgia, 
194-95;  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  xxix 

Bulgaria:  Georgia's  trade  with,  205 

Buzand,  Pavstos,  37 

Byzantine  Empire:  Armenia  in,  10;  influ- 
ence on  Georgia  by,  xxiv,158,  184; 
invasion  of  Armenia  by,  11 


Cabinet  of  Ministers  (Georgia),  liv,  213- 
14;  nomination  of,  215;  obstacles  to 
reform  in,  214;  Presidium  of,  213; 
restructured,  214 
Canada:  trade  with  Armenia,  57 
canals:  in  Armenia,  42,  45 
carpets:  in  Azerbaijan,  108,  119 
Caspian  Flotilla  (Soviet Union),  142,  143 
Caspian  High  Naval  School,  142,  143 
Caspian  Sea,  99;  oil  deposits  in,  xlii;  pol- 
lution in,  100 
Caspian  Sea  Forum,  101 
Caucasian  Bureau,  92 
Caucasus  Mountains,  xxxvi,  175 
Central  Bank  of  Armenia,  xxxv,  52 
Central  Bank  of  Russia,  67,  195 
Central  Election  Commission  (Georgia), 
208, 211 

Central  Electoral  Commission  (Azer- 
baijan), 132 

CFE  Treaty.  See  Conventional  Forces  in 
Europe  Treaty 

Chanturia,  Gia,  168,  170;  assassination 


of,  liv 

Chechen  Autonomous  Republic,  lii,  liii; 
border  of,  with  Georgia,  175;  Gamsa- 
khurdia  in,  171,  209 

Chernobyl'  disaster,  27 

Chikhvaidze,  Alexander,  221 

China,  People's  Republic  of:  Georgia's 
relations  with,  221 

Christianity  {see  also  under  individual 
denominations),  10-11;  Armenia's  con- 
version to,  xxiv,  10,  33;  in  Azerbaijan, 
107;  Georgia's  conversion  to,  xxiv,  158, 
182 

Cirak  oil  field  (Azerbaijan),  120 

civil  code  (Armenia),  58 

climate:  of  Armenia,  27;  of  Azerbaijan, 
100;  of  Georgia,  176-77;  influences 
on,  176;  precipitation,  27,  100,  176; 
temperature,  27,  176 

Clinton,  William  J.,  xxxiii,  221 

coal,  48 

Combined  Forces  Command  School 
(Azerbaijan),  143,  147 

Commission  on  Human  Rights  and  Eth- 
nic Minority  Affairs  (Georgia),  219 

Commission  on  Security  (Georgia),  228 

Committee  for  State  Security  (Komitet 
gosudarstvennoi  bezopasnosti — KGB) , 
166;  in  Armenia,  63,  76,  77;  crack- 
down by,  on  Azerbaijani  Popular 
Front,  94;  in  Georgia,  228 

Committee  for  the  Protection  of  the  Nat- 
ural Environment  (Azerbaijan),  101 

Committee  of  Union  and  Progress.  See 
Young  Turks 

Commonwealth  of  Independent  States 
{see  also  Russia;  Soviet  Union):  Arme- 
nia as  member  of,  xxxi,  67;  arms  sales 
to,  46;  Azerbaijan  as  member  of,  68, 
97,  141,  145;  Georgia  as  member  of, 
68,  188,  219,  225;  military  agreements 
in,  70;  peace  negotiations  sponsored 
by,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  xxxix,  65;  relations 
with  Armenia,  67-68 

communications.  See  telecommunica- 
tions 

Communist  Party  of  Armenia  (CPA),  48, 
61;  under  Great  Terror,  18;  newspaper 
of,  63;  police  terror  under,  17-18 

Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union, 
61 

Communist  Youth  League  (Komsomol), 


276 


Index 


164 

Conference  on  Security  and  Coopera- 
tion in  Europe  (CSCE),  24;  Azer- 
baijan's membership  in,  140,  144; 
peace  negotiations  sponsored  by, 
xxviii,  xxxiii,  xxxix,  24,  25,  65,  67,  98, 
139,171 

cognac  production,  42,  45 

conflicts:  between  Armenia  and  Azer- 
baijan, xxxii,  xxxvi,  69,  93,  141 , 143 

Congress  of  Berlin:  Armenian  delega- 
tion to,  13 

Congress  of  People's  Deputies:  elections 
for,  20 

constitution  of  Armenia,  xxx,  xxxiv,  13, 
60-61;  drafting  of,  61;  lack  of  consen- 
sus on,  xxx,  xxxiv,  58 
constitution  of  Azerbaijan ,  xxxviii,  135- 

36;  drafting  of,  135 
constitution  of  Georgia,  216,  218 
constitution  of  1863  (Armenia),  13 
constitution  of  1921  (Georgia),  216,  218 
constitution  of  1936  (Soviet  Union) ,  92 
constitution  of  1978  (Soviet  Union),  60, 

135-36,  218 
construction:  Armenian  employment 

in,  51;  in  Georgia,  204 
Consultative  Council  on  Interethnic 

Relations  (Azerbaijan),  103 
consumer  goods:  in  Armenia,  46 
consumption:  in  Armenia,  51;  in  Geor- 
gia, 191 

Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  Treaty 

(CFE  Treaty),  68,  144 
copper,  42,  44 

corruption:  in  Armenia,  xxxii,  17,  18, 
48-50,  56;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxix,  93, 
146;  in  Georgia,  xliv,  164,  182,  192 

cotton:  production  of,  119 

Council  for  National  Security  and 
Defense  (Georgia),  216,  221,  229;  dis- 
banded, 229 

Council  of  Chalcedon  (451),  34 

Council  of  Ethnic  Minorities  (Georgia), 
219 

Council  of  Ministers  (Armenia),  28,  58; 
disagreements  within,  59;  members  of, 
59 

Council  of  Ministers  (Azerbaijan) ,  94 
coup  d'etat:  of  1993  in  Azerbaijan,  xxx- 
viii, 25, 132-34 
coupon.  See  currency 


coups  d'etat,  attempted:  in  Azerbaijan 
(1994),  xli;  by  Gamsakhurdia  support- 
ers, 226;  against  Gorbachev  (1991), 
23,  96,  130, 169-70 

court  system:  in  Armenia,  60;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 94,  136;  in  Georgia,  217-18 

CPA.  See  Communist  Party  of  Armenia 

crafts:  in  Azerbaijan,  108 

crime:  in  Armenia,  xxxii,  77;  in  Azer- 
baijan, xxxix,  146-47;  drug-related, 
77,  145;  in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlix,  229;  pre- 
vention, 146-47 

criminal  code  (Armenia),  58 

Crusaders,  158 

CSCE.  See  Conference  on  Security  and 

Cooperation  in  Europe 
cuisine:  Armenian,  38;  Georgian,  185 
culture:  Armenian,  16,  34,  36-38;  Azer- 
baijani, 90,  92,  109-11;  Georgian,  183, 
185 

currency:  in  Armenia,  xxx,  xxxv,  52;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xlii,  115,  124;  foreign,  195; 
in  Georgia,  xlvi-xlvii,  liv,  193,  195; 
shortage  of,  xlvi,  52,  193 

customs:  corruption  in,  146 

Cyprus:  Armenians  in,  11 

Cyrus  the  Great,  87 

Czechoslovakia:  Georgia's  trade  with, 
205 


Dagestan  Autonomous  Republic:  Azer- 

baijanis  in,  102 
Dagestanis.  See  Lezgians 
dance:  in  Georgia,  183,  185 
DAS.  See  Democratic  Choice  for  Georgia 
Dashnak.  See  Armenian  Revolutionary 

Federation 
David  IV  (the  Builder) ,  xliii,  158 
death  rate:  in  Armenia,  31;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 102 
Debet  River  valley,  26 
Defense  Council  (Azerbaijan),  142,  145 
defense  industry:  in  Armenia,  43,  46,  70 
defense  spending:  in  Armenia,  52;  in 
Azerbaijan,  124,  144-45;  in  Georgia, 
195 

Defense  Technical  Sports  Society  (Arme- 
nia), 74-75 
Demirchian,  Karen,  18 
democracy:  Armenian  steps  toward, 


277 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


xxx;  promises  of,  in  Azerbaijan,  xxx- 
viii;  lack  of  experience  with,  in  Geor- 
gia, xliii 

Democratic  Choice  for  Georgia  (DAS), 
206 

Democratic  Party  of  Azerbaijan,  92 
Democratic  Union  (Georgia),  210,  211, 
212 

demonstrations.  See  political  demonstra- 
tions 

de-Stalinization,  164 

Diocese  of  the  Armenian  Church  in 
America,  69 

disease:  environmental  causes  of,  177; 
incidence  of,  39-40, 189 

district  attorneys:  in  Armenia,  60 

drainage:  in  Armenia,  26;  in  Azerbaijan, 
100;  in  Georgia,  176 

dram.  See  currency 

drug  addiction:  in  Georgia,  189 

drug  trafficking:  in  Armenia,  77;  in  Azer- 
baijan, xxxix,  146,  147;  in  Georgia, 
xlix;  to  Russia,  146 


earthquakes:  in  Armenia,  26;  in  Georgia, 
175;  in  1988,  xxix,  20,  26,  39,  41,  46, 
48-50,  55;  in  1991,  175-76 

EC.  See  European  Community 

Echmiadzin,  34 

economic  development:  obstacles  to,  in 

Georgia,  191-92 
economic  mafia:  in  Georgia,  xlv,  191, 

204 

economic  reform:  in  Armenia,  xxxv,  1, 
48-51 ,  59;  in  Azerbaijan,  Hi,  122-24;  in 
Georgia,  liv,  203-5;  obstacles  to,  122, 
203;  resistance  to,  48 

economy:  Armenian,  xxix,  xxxv,  12,  24, 
41-57;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  122-24; 
capitalist,  12;  command,  xxix,  xxxv, 
42,  116;  in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlvi,  190-206; 
informal,  xlvi,  18,  48,  164,  165,  191, 
203;  market,  xxix,  xxxv,  xlii,  xlix,  48, 
122;  under  Russian  Empire,  12;  under 
Soviet  Union,  42 

education  (see  also  schools):  in  Armenia, 
38-39;  in  Azerbaijan,  111-13;  curric- 
ula in,  38,  112;  employment  in,  51, 
116;  in  Georgia,  186-87;  human  rights 
in,  62;  improvements  in,  18;  languages 


in,  38,  187;  postsecondary,  39,  186; 
promotion  of  Armenian,  16;  religious, 
111,  112;  under  Stalin,  18;  of  women, 
111 

Egishe,  Agathangelos,  37 

Egypt:  Armenians  in,  11 

Elchibey,  Abulfaz:  background  of,  132; 
in  elections  of  1992,  xxxviii,  132; 
exiled,  133;  as  opposition  leader,  liii; 
ousted,  132-33;  as  party  chair,  129; 
policies  of,  xxxviii,  132;  as  president, 
97,  103,  132 

elections  in  Armenia:  of  1989,  20;  of 
1990,  22;  of  1991,  23,  58;  of  1992,  61, 
62;  of  1995,xxxiv 

elections  in  Azerbaijan,  131;  announced 
for  1995,  xli;  international  observers 
in,  131,  132;  of  1990,  131;  of  1991,  97; 
of  1992,  xxxvii,  131-32;  of  1993,  xxx- 
viii, 134-35;  postponement  of,  xxxviii, 
regulations  of,  131 

elections  in  Georgia,  207,  210-11;  inter- 
national observers  in,  212;  of  1989, 
206;  of  1990,  168,  206,  208;  elections 
of  1992,  206,  210-13 

electric  power:  capacity,  119;  distribution 
of,  48;  hydro,  28,  47,  119-20,  176;  in 
rural  areas,  45 

elite  class:  in  Armenia,  18,  62;  corrup- 
tion among,  18,  19;  in  Soviet  Union, 
18 

Emergency  Committee  (Georgia),  xlviii 
Emergency  Coordinating  Commission 

(Georgia),  xlviii 
Emergency  Economic  Council  (Geor- 
gia), 21 6 

energy:  in  Armenia,  28,  42,  44,46-48,  67; 
in  Azerbaijan,  30,  90,  99,  115,  119-22; 
in  Georgia,  176,  196-97;  imports  of, 
xxix,  46;  prices  of,  191;  production, 
46,  120 

energy  resources  (see  also  under  individual 
energy  sources):  in  Armenia,  xxix,  46- 
48;  in  Azerbaijan,  119-20;  coal,  48;  in 
Georgia,  196-97;  imported,  196; 
nuclear,  18-19,  24,  27;  oil,  48,  119; 
pollution  caused  by,  18-19,  27;  subsi- 
dies for,  124;  trees  cut  for,  24,  28,  101 

energy  shortage:  in  Armenia,  xxix,  1,  24, 
47-48,  50,  51,  53;  in  Azerbaijan,  120; 
in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlvii,  196;  economic 
effects  of,  50 


278 


Index 


English  language:  broadcasts  in,  56 
environmental  problems:  in  Armenia, 
18-19,  24,  27-29,  43;  attempts  to 
address,  28,  29;  in  Azerbaijan,  100- 
101;  in  Erevan,  27,  28;  in  Georgia,  177; 
pesticides  as,  101;  water  pollution,  99, 
100 

Erevan,  26;  anarchy  in,  22;  architecture 
of,  37;  population  of,  xxviii,  30;  sub- 
way system  of,  55 

Erevan  Architecture  and  Civil  Engineer- 
ing Institute,  39 

Erevan  Health  Department,  40 

Erevan  State  University,  39 

Erevan  Stock  Exchange,  xxxv 

Ertoba.  See  Unity  Bloc 

ethnic  minorities:  in  Armenia,  31-32,  35, 
65;  in  Azerbaijan,  103-4;  distribution 
of,  178;  in  Georgia,  xxiii,  xliii,  102, 
178-81,  210,223 

ethnic  tensions:  in  Georgia,  165,  177, 
212,  218;  in  Transcaucasia,  xxvii,  15 

EU.  See  European  Union 

Europe:  Armenian  exports  to,  57;  Arme- 
nians in,  35 

European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development:  aid  to  Armenia,  xxxi; 
Azerbaijan's  membership  in,  140 

European  Community  (EC):  aid  to 
Georgia  from,  222 

European  Union  (EU),  xxxi,  101 

executive  branch:  of  Armenia,  xxx,  59- 
60;  of  Azerbaijan,  131-35;  of  Georgia, 
xlviii,  215-16 

exports  {see  also  under  individual  prod- 
ucts): by  Armenia,  57;  by  Azerbaijan, 
xlii,  120,  125;  of  energy,  120;  by  Geor- 
gia, 205;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  125;  restrictions  on,  205 


families:  in  Armenia,  31,  38;  in  Georgia, 
1 78;  laws  regarding,  59 

farms:  collective,  44,  118-19 

Fidain  (Armenia) ,  22,  77 

film:  in  Georgia,  183,  185 

financial  structure:  of  Armenia,  xxxv, 
52-53;  of  Azerbaijan,  123-24;  of  Geor- 
gia, xlvii,  194-95 

Finland:  Azerbaijan's  relations  with,  138 

food:  import  of,  44,  46;  processing,  119, 


190;  production,  46;  rationing  of,  204; 
service,  51;  shortages  of,  51,  53;  subsi- 
dies for,  114, 115, 124,  204 
foreign  assistance:  to  Armenia,  xxxi- 
xxxii,  xxxv,  41,  42,  48-50,  67,  69; 
Armenian  requests  for,  67;  and  cor- 
ruption, 48-50;  Georgian  requests  for, 
186,221 

foreign  influences:  on  Armenia,  10,  13; 
on  Azerbaijan,  87-88,  89-90,  115;  on 
Georgia,  158,  181,  184 

foreign  investment:  in  Armenia,  50;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xlii,  li;  in  Georgia,  xliv, 
xlvii,  191,  225 

foreign  policy  establishment:  of  Azer- 
baijan, 138-39;  of  Georgia,  221 

foreign  relations  (Armenia):  with  Azer- 
baijan, 21,  64-65,  70,  96;  with  Britain, 
xxxiii;  with  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States,  xxxi,  67-68;  with 
the  European  Union,  xxxi;  with  Geor- 
gia, xxxiv,  65-66,  70,  222-24;  with 
Iran,  1,  66,  70;  with  Russia,  xxxiii,  67; 
with  Turkey,  xxxi,  xxxiv,  65,  66,  71; 
with  Turkmenistan,  xxxv,  1 — li;  with  the 
United  States,  xxxi,  xxxiii,  68-70 

foreign  relations  (Azerbaijan):  with 
Afghanistan,  138;  under  Aliyev,  xlii; 
with  Armenia,  21,  64-65;  69,  70,  93, 
96,  141,  143;  with  Finland,  138;  with 
former  Soviet  republics,  xlii,  140-41; 
with  Georgia,  222-24;  with  Germany, 
138;  with  Iran,  xxxviii,  xl,  25,  30,  92, 
94,  127,  138,  139;  with  Russia,  xxxi, 
xxxvii,  xxxviii,  lii,  139,  140-41;  with 
Saudi  Arabia,  xl;  with  Turkey,  xxxi, 
xxxvii,  xxxviii,  70,  71,  138,  139;  with 
the  United  States,  xxxiii,  xl,  139;  with 
Uzbekistan,  141;  with  the  West,  xxxvii 

foreign  relations  (Georgia) ,  219-25;  with 
Armenia,  64-65,  70,  158,  222-24;  with 
Azerbaijan,  222-24;  with  China,  221; 
with  Germany,  221;  with  Iran,  220; 
with  Israel,  221,  222;  with  Romania, 
220;  with  Russia,  220,  221,  224-25; 
under  Shevardnadze,  xliv;  with  Tur- 
key, 220,  221,  225;  with  the  United 
States,  219,  220,  221 

forestry:  Armenian  employment  in,  51 

France:  Armenians  in,  11,  30 

Freedom  House,  137 

freedom  of  speech:  in  Armenia,  62;  in 


279 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Azerbaijan,  134;  in  Georgia,  219 
Free  Media  Association  of  Georgia,  liv, 
219 

French  language:  broadcasts  in,  56 
Fuzuli,  108 


Gajiyeva,  Lala-Shovket,  103 
Gambarov,  Isa,  131 

Gamsakhurdia,  Zviad,  xxvii,  212;  back- 
ground of,  168;  as  dissident,  164,  168, 
182,  206;  economy  under,  204;  ene- 
mies of,  168;  exiled,  170,  209;  foreign 
relations  under,  219,  220-21;  influ- 
ence of,  206;  opposition  to,  170,  209, 
228;  overthrown,  xxvii,  xliv,  170,  209; 
parliament  in  exile  of,  171;  as  presi- 
dent, 169-70,  208-9;  reaction  to  coup 
attempt,  169-70;  return  to  Georgia, 
175;  rise  of,  166-69;  suicide  of,  175; 
support  for,  170-71;  xenophobia  of, 
65,  219 

Ganjavi,  Nezami,  108 

gas,  natural:  in  Armenia,  xxxv,  44,  67;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  122;  export  of  by 
Azerbaijan,  120;  import  of,  48,  56,  57, 
67,  122;  price  of,  122;  production  of, 
122;  reserves,  122;  from  Turkmeni- 
stan, xxxv 

gas  pipelines,  48,  56,  127-28,  196;  in 
Armenia,  72;  attacks  on,  xxxiv,  24,  48, 
65-66,  191,  229;  in  Georgia,  1,  203, 
223;  laid,  42 

GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and  Trade 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT):  Azerbaijan's  membership  in, 
140 

general  prosecutor:  in  Armenia,  60 
Genscher,  Hans-Dietrich,  221 
geopolitical  situation:  of  Armenia,  15, 

70-72;  of  Georgia,  224 
George,  Saint,  157 

Georgian  Communist  Party,  206,  208; 

demise  of,  209 
Georgianization  campaign,  174 
Georgian  language,  xxiv,  xliii,  181-82;  in 

Abkhazia,  179;  alphabet  of,  181; 

broadcasts  in,  203;  education  in,  187; 

as  state  language,  164,  181-82;  writ- 


ten, 182 

Georgian  Military  Highway,  200,  203 
Georgian  National  Congress,  208,  218 
Georgian  Orthodox  Church,  159,  163, 
182;  corruption  in,  182;  members  of, 
183;  restoration  of,  183;  under  Rus- 
sian Empire,  182;  under  Soviet  Union, 
182 

Georgian  people:  in  Abkhazia,  179; 

diaspora  of,  xxiii,  179;  ethnic  base  of, 

157;  life  spans  of,  178 
Georgian  State  Dance  Company,  185 
Germany:  Azerbaijan's  relations  with, 

138;  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125; 

Georgia's  relations  with,  221;  Geor- 
gia's trade  with,  205 
glasnost: in  Azerbaijan,  111;  effects  of,  20, 

166;  in  Georgia,  164 
GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
golden  age,  xxiv;  first  (Armenia),  10,  36; 

Georgian,  xliii,  158,  183;  second 

(Armenia) ,  1 1 ,  36 
Golden  Eagle  Film  Festival  of  the  Black 

Sea  Basin  Countries  (1993),  185 
Golos  Azatamart  (Struggle  for  Freedom) , 

63 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.:  attempted  over- 
throw of,  23,  96;  Azerbaijan  under,  93; 
proposals  for  Nagorno-Karabakh,  21; 
reforms  introduced  by,  20,  48,  164 
Gorky,  Arshile  (Vasdanik  Adoian) ,  37 
Gosbank  Armenia.  See  State  Bank  of 
Armenia 

Gosplan.  See  State  Planning  Committee 
government:  of  Armenia,  20,  21,  58-60, 
61,  63,  96;  of  Azerbaijan,  94,  131,  142, 
145;  of  Georgia,  213-16 
Grachev,  Pavel,  xxxii,  67 
Grakan  Tert  (Literary  Paper) ,  63 
Greater  Caucasus  mountain  range,  99, 

175,  176 
Great  Terror  (1936-37),  18, 185 
Greece:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125; 
influence  on  Armenia,  10;  influence 
on  Azerbaijan,  87-88;  influence  on 
Georgia,  xxiv,  184 
Greeks:  in  Armenia,  31 
green  groups:  in  Armenia,  27 
Green  Party  (Georgia),  177 
Gregorian  Church.  See  Armenian  Apos- 
tolic Church 
Gregory  the  Illuminator,  Saint,  10,  33 


280 


Index 


gross  domestic  product,  Hi;  defense 
spending,  124;  spent  on  social  secu- 
rity, 114;  trade,  125 

gross  national  product  (GNP):  in  Arme- 
nia, 1,  41;  in  Azerbaijan,  116 

Group  of  Russian  Troops  in  the  Cauca- 
sus (GRTC),xlvi 

Guliyev,  Rusul,  liii 

Gumbaridze,  Givi,  166 

Gunesli  oil  field,  120 

Gyandzha:  industry  in,  119;  population 
of,  102 

Gyumri,  26 


Housing  Bank  of  Georgia,  194 
Hovannisian,  Raffi,  66 
Hovnatanian,  Hacop,  37 
Hulegu  Khan,  88 

human  rights:  abuses,  63,  136,  218-19, 
221,  226;  in  Armenia,  62-63;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 134, 136-38;  in  Georgia,  liii-liv, 
218-19,  221 

Hurrian  people,  9 

Huseynov,  Suret,  133;  coup  attempt  by, 
xli;  as  prime  minister,  134;  hydroelec- 
tric power:  in  Armenia,  28,  42,  47; 
construction  of,  47;  in  Georgia,  176, 
196;  potential,  196 


hai,  9 

Haiastan,  9 

Hairikian,  Pariur,  62 

Hajibeyli,  Uzeir,  110 

Harutiunian,  Suren:  resignation  of,  22 

Hayastani  Hanrapetutiun  (Republic  of 

Armenia) ,  63 
Hayk,  9 

Hayk  (Armenia) ,  63 

Hazatamart  (Battle  for  Freedom) ,  63 

Hazg  (Nation),  63 

health  (see  also  disease):  in  Armenia,  39- 
41;  in  Azerbaijan,  99,  113-14;  employ- 
ment in,  51;  in  Georgia,  187-89 

health  care:  in  Armenia,  40-41;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 113-14;  in  Georgia,  187-89; 
reform  of,  189;  shortages  in,  113-14; 
specialized,  188;  spending  on,  189; 
subsidies  for,  115 

health  care  professionals:  in  Azerbaijan, 
113;  in  Georgia,  189;  training  for,  113 

health  facilities:  in  Armenia,  40;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 99;  in  Georgia,  187-89;  min- 
eral springs,  99;  sanatoriums,  188 

Hellenic  culture:  Armenia  as  center  of, 
10;  influence  on  Armenia,  xxiv;  influ- 
ence on  Georgia,  xxiv 

Helsinki  Assembly,  63 

Helsinki  Watch,  63,  136,  219 

Herekle  II,  159 

Higher  All  Arms  Command  School,  142 
Himmat  party  (Azerbaijan) ,  90 
holidays:  in  Armenia,  37-38 
homelessness:  in  Armenia,  51 
housing:  laws  regarding,  59;  privatization 
of,  123;  subsidies  for,  115 


Iberian  Television,  203 
Iber vision,  219 

Ibrahim  I  ibn  Sultan  Muhammad,  88 
IDR  See  Independent  Democratic  Party 
Ilia  II,  182 

Imeretia:  annexed  by  Russia,  159 
Imereti  mountain  range,  175 
IMR  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
imports:  by  Armenia,  57;  by  Azerbaijan, 
xlii,  125;  of  consumer  goods,  46;  of 
food,  44;  by  Georgia,  192,  205;  as  per- 
centage of  gross  domestic  product, 
125; taxes  on,  205 
income:  in  Armenia,  41,  51-52;  in  Geor- 
gia, 191,  194;  sources  of,  194 
independence:  of  Armenia,  xxiii,  xxviii- 
xxix,  13,  15,  22,  23-25,  57;  of  Azer- 
baijan, xxiii-xxiv,  xxviii-xxix,  94,  96, 
97;  of  Georgia,  xxiii,  xxviii,  162,  166, 
169 

independence,  declaration  of:  by  Arme- 
nia, 15,  22,  24,  57;  by  Georgia,  162, 
169 

independence  movement:  in  Armenia, 
13,  23-25;  in  South  Ossetia,  171 

Independent  Democratic  Party  (IDP) 
(Azerbaijan),  130 

India:  Armenians  in,  35;  Azerbaijanis  in, 
106;  Parsis  in,  106 

Indo-Europeans,  29 

industrial  infrastructure  (Armenia): 
damage  to,  46;  deterioration  of,  43; 
under  Stalin,  18,  42 

Industrial  Investment  Joint  Stock  Com- 
mercial Bank  (Azerbaijan),  124 


281 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


industrialization:  environmental  prob- 
lems caused  by,  18-19,  100;  in  Geor- 
gia, 163;  by  Soviet  Union,  xxv,  xxix; 
under  Stalin,  17,  18,  163 

industrial  output:  in  Armenia,  li,  46;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  xlii,  116;  in  Geor- 
gia, xliv-xlv,  163,  165,  190,  191,  196 

industry:  in  Armenia,  45-46;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 115,  116,  119,  122;  chemical, 
45,  57;  diversity  in,  122;  employment 
in,  42,  51,  116;  in  Georgia,  163,  165, 
190,  191,  195-96;  scientific  research 
in,  45,  50;  under  Soviet  Union,  195 

infant  mortality:  in  Armenia,  40;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 113;  in  Georgia,  178,  189 

inflation:  in  Armenia,  41 ,  51,  53;  in  Azer- 
baijan, xxxvii,  lii,  117,  123;  in  Georgia, 
xlvi.liv,  190,  193, 195,  204 

Information  and  Intelligence  Service 
(Georgia),  215,229 

infrastructure:  in  Armenia,  xxix,  18,  42, 
43,  44,  46;  in  Azerbaijan,  122;  in  Geor- 
gia, 175 

Inguri  River,  xlv 

Ingushetia:  border  of,  with  Georgia,  1 75 

Institute  for  Advanced  Training  of  Physi- 
cians (Azerbaijan),  113 

Institute  of  Petroleum  and  Chemistry 
(Azerbaijan),  112-13 

intellectuals:  in  Armenia,  13;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 110;  in  Georgia,  160 

intelligentsia:  emergence  of,  in  Armenia, 
12,  13 

Interethnic  Congress  of  the  People  of 
Georgia,  219 

internal  security:  in  Armenia,  xxxii,  76- 
77;  in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlviii,  xlix,  228-29 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Corporation 

International  Covenant  of  Civil  and 
Political  Rights,  62 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF): 
relations  with  Armenia,  xxxi,  xxxv,  50- 
51;  relations  with  Azerbaijan,  xlii,  139 

International  Telecommunications  Sat- 
ellite Corporation  (Intelsat),  127 

invasion:  of  Armenia,  11,  23;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 22,  88,  91;  of  Georgia,  158-59, 
162,  179;  of  Transcaucasia,  xxiii 

Iori  Plateau,  176 

Ioseliani,  Jaba,  xlviii,  218;  in  Council  for 
National  Security  and  Defense,  229; 


forced  to  resign,  226,  229;  in  Military 
Council,  170;  rivalry  of,  with  Kitovani, 
226;  in  State  Council  Presidium,  170 
Iran:  Armenians  in,  30;  Azerbaijani  riots 
against,  94;  Azerbaijanis  in,  66,  92, 
102;  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125;  bor- 
der maneuvers  by,  66,  98;  border  with 
Armenia,  26,  72;  border  with  Azer- 
baijan, 99;  exports  to,  120;  imports 
from,  122;  military  training  by,  144; 
peace  negotiations  sponsored  by,  24, 

65,  66,  98;  relations  with  Armenia,  25, 

66,  70;  relations  with  Azerbaijan,  138, 
139;  relations  with  Georgia,  220;  reli- 
gious assistance  to  Azerbaijan  from, 
107;  television  broadcasts  from,  127; 
suppression  of  Azerbaijani  culture  in, 
92;  trade  with,  57 

irrigation:  in  Armenia,  xxix,  28,  45;  in 
Azerbaijan,  100,  118;  in  Georgia,  198 

Islam:  conflict  in,  106;  introduction  of, 
in  Azerbaijan,  xxiv,  88-89,  106;  secret 
sects  in,  107;  Shia,  106,  107;  Sunni, 
106 

Ismail  I,  106,  108 
Ismailof,  Ilias,  132 

Israel:  Georgia's  relations  with,  221,  222 


Jafarzade,  Aziza,  110 

Japaridze,  Tedo,  229 

Japheth,  29 

Javid,  Husein,  110 

Jews:  in  Georgia,  183,  222 

Joint  Transcaucasian  Power  Grid,  46, 120 

joint  ventures:  in  Armenia,  50;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 121;  in  Georgia,  xlvii 

journalists:  in  Armenian  independence 
movement,  13;  in  Azerbaijani  political 
parties,  129 

judges:  in  Armenia,  60;  in  Georgia,  216, 
217 

judiciary  (see  also  court  system):  in  Arme- 
nia, 60;  in  Georgia,  216-18 

Jugashvili,  Iakob.  See  Stalin,  Joseph  V. 

jurisprudence:  development  in  Armenia, 
11 

juvenile  delinquency:  in  Georgia,  189 


282 


Index 


Kachazuni,  R.I.,  15 

Kakhetia:  annexed  by  Russia,  159;  united 

with  Kartli,  159 
Kamber,  Isa,  1 36 

Karabakh.  See  Nagorno-Karabakh 
Karabakh  Committee,  20,  59;  leaders  of, 

arrested  and  released,  20 
Karabakh  National  Council,  21 
Karabakh  Self-Defense  Army,  74 
Karimov,  Islam,  141 

Kartli:  annexed  by  Russia,  159;  united 
with  Kakhetia,  159 

Kardi-Kakhetia,  kingdom  of,  1 59 

Kartli-Iberia,  kingdom  of,  158 

Kazakhstan:  Azerbaijanis  in,  102;  Azer- 
baijan's trade  with,  125;  in  energy  con- 
sortium, 121-22;  imports  from,  122; 
military  cooperation  with  Armenia, 
67,  71;  peace  talks  sponsored  by,  98 

Kepez  oil  field,  120 

KGB.  See  Committee  for  State  Security 

Khamseh  (Ganjavi),  108 

Khatisian,  A.I.,  15 

Khorenatsi,  Movses,  37 

Khrushchev,  Nikita  S.,  18;  demonstra- 
tions against,  164;  purges  by,  93; 
reforms  by,  163,  163 

Kirovabad.  See  Gyandzha 

Kitovani,  Tengiz,  liii,  170,  218;  in  Coun- 
cil for  National  Security  and  Defense, 
229;  as  deputy  prime  minister,  213; 
forced  to  resign,  226,  229;  in  Military 
Council,  170;  rivalry  with  Ioseliani, 
226;  in  State  Council  Presidium,  170 

Knight  in  the  Panther  Skin,  The  (Rustaveli) , 
184 

kobuz,  108 

Kobystan  Mountain,  99 
Kolkhida  Lowlands,  176 
Komitet  gosudarstvennoi  bezopasnosti. 

See  Committee  for  State  Security 
Komsomol.  See  Communist  Youth 

League 
Koroglu,  108 
Kosh  prison,  77 

Kurdish  language:  broadcasts  in,  56 
Kurds:  in  Armenia,  31,  35;  in  Azerbaijan, 

103;  in  Georgia,  181 
Kutaisi:  Jews  in,  183;  population  in,  178; 

university  in,  186 
Kutaisi  Automotive  Works,  195-96 
Kyrgyzstan:  military  cooperation  with 


Armenia,  67,  71 


Lachin:  corridor,  xxix;  region,  Hi 
Laila  and  Majnun  (Fuzuli) ,  1 08 
Lake  Sevan,  26;  drop  of  water  level  in, 
28-29,  47 

land:  arable,  xxix,  xli,  44,  45,  100,  198; 
area,  99,  175;  privatization,  xxix,  xli, 
44;  redistribution,  xxv,  123,  162,  198- 
99;  tenure,  59 

language  (see  also  under  individual  lan- 
guages): in  Armenia,  9,  19,  32,  33,  38, 
62;  in  Azerbaijan,  88-89,  103,  104-6; 
in  Georgia,  179,  181-82,  187,  203 

Latvia:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125 

Law  on  Banks  and  Banking  Activity 
(1992)  (Azerbaijan),  124 

Law  on  Defense  (1993)  (Azerbaijan), 
145 

Law  on  Mineral  Resources  (1994) 

(Armenia) ,  28 
Law  on  Privatization  of  State  Enterprises 

(1991)  (Georgia),  204 
Law  on  Sovereignty  (1989)  (Azerbaijan), 

130 

Law  on  State  Power  (1992)  (Georgia), 
213,  214,  215 

Law  on  the  National  Bank  (1992)  (Azer- 
baijan), 124 

Law  on  the  Press  (1992)  (Georgia),  219 

Law  on  the  Program  of  Privatization  and 
Destatization  of  Incompletely  Con- 
structed Facilities  (1992)  (Armenia), 
50 

lawyers:  in  Armenia,  60;  in  Georgia,  217 
LDP.  See  Liberal  Democratic  Party 

(Armenia) 
League  of  Human  Rights,  63 
Lebanon:  Armenians  in,  30 
legislative  branch:  in  Armenia,  xxx,  58; 

in  Azerbaijan,  xxxviii,  131;  in  Georgia, 

207,  208 

Lenin,  Vladimir  I.,  91,  162;  economy 

under,  42 
Leninakan:  population  of,  31 
Lesser  Armenia,  11,  36 
Lesser  Caucasus  mountain  range,  26, 

100,  175 
Lezgians  (Dagestanis),  103,  136 
Liberal-Democratic  National  Party,  212 


283 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Liberal  Democratic  Party  (LDP)  (Arme- 
nia), 62;  founded,  62;  platform  of,  62; 
support  for,  62 

libraries:  destruction  of,  110 

life  expectancy:  in  Armenia,  31;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 102;  in  Georgia,  178 

literacy  rate:  in  Armenia,  38;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 111;  in  Georgia,  186;  improve- 
ments in,  18,  186;  under  Stalin,  18 

literature:  of  Armenia,  10,  11,  36-37;  of 
Azerbaijan,  88,  105,  108;  of  Georgia, 
158, 184 

Lithuania:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125 

livestock:  in  Azerbaijan,  118 

living  expenses:  in  Armenia,  123;  in 
Azerbaijan,  123 

living  standards:  in  Armenia,  xxx,  51-52; 
of  Armenians  in  Azerbaijan,  19;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xli,  19,  117;  in  Georgia,  liv 


madrasahs,  111 

Maiden  Tower  (Baku),  109 

Main  Administration  for  Aviation 
(Armenia),  56 

Main  Administration  for  the  Protection 
of  State  Borders  (Armenia),  76 

Main  Administration  for  the  Protection 
of  State  Secrets  in  the  Press  (Azer- 
baijan), xli 

Major,  John,  xxxiii 

Mamedov,  Etibar,  1 30 

Mamedov,  Yakub:  in  elections  of  1992, 
132;  as  president,  97 

Mamluk  Turks:  invasion  of  Armenia  by, 
11 

Manukian,  Vazgan,  72 

Marian  III,  158,  182 

marriage:  Armenian  laws  regarding,  58 

martial  law:  under  Russia,  131,  161 

Marxists:  in  Azerbaijan,  90-91;  in  Geor- 
gia, 160 

Mashtots.  See  Mesrop 

massacres  of  Armenians,  30;  in  Azer- 
baijan (1989),  20,  94,  96;  in  Russia 
(1905),  14;  in  Turkey  (1895),  14,  29; 
in  Turkey  (1915),  xxxi,  14-15,  29,  35, 
38,  61 

materiel,  military:  of  Armenia,  70,  71, 
76;  of  Azerbaijan,  71,  143,  144;  of 
Georgia,  71,  228;  from  the  Soviet 


Union,  143,  228 

media:  in  Armenia,  13,  56,  63-64;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xl,  129,  137-38;  censor- 
ship of,  xl,  xlviii,  liv,  137,  138,  219;  in 
Georgia,  xlviii,  liv,  203,  219;  under 
Soviet  Union,  63 

Mediterranean  Sea,  27 

Melli-Majlis.  See  National  Council  (Azer- 
baijan) 

Mensheviks:  struggle  of,  with  Bolsheviks, 

162-63 
merchant  class,  30,  159-60 
Meskhetian  Turks,  180-81,  219,  225 
Mesrop  (Mashtots),  Saint,  10 
metalworking:  in  Armenia,  36-37,  45;  >n 

Georgia,  184 
Middle  Ages:  Armenia  during,  1 1 
middle  class,  30 

migration:  from  Armenia,  29,  30,  32;  of 
Armenians,  11;  of  Azerbaijanis,  29,  32; 
to  France,  11,  30;  from  Georgia,  177; 
to  India,  106;  to  Iran,  30;  to  Lebanon, 
30;  of  Muslims,  106;  of  proto-Arme- 
nians,  9;  to  Syria,  30;  to  the  United 
States,  30 

military  assistance:  to  Azerbaijan,  143, 

144;  to  Georgia,  227,  230 
military  conscription:  in  Armenia,  73;  in 

Azerbaijan,  xxxix,  145;  in  Georgia, 

xlviii,  227-28 
Military  Council  (Georgia),  170-71: 

members  of,  1 70 
military  doctrine:  of  Armenia,  72 
military  officers:  in  Armenia,  73;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 143 
millet  system:  in  Armenia,  1 1 ,  34 
minerals:  export  of,  190 
Mingechaur  Reservoir,  100 
mining:  in  Abkhazia,  196;  in  Armenia, 

42;  of  copper,  42;  in  Georgia,  190, 191 
Ministry  of  Agriculture  (Armenia),  59- 

60 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  (Georgia),  213 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Food  (Azer- 
baijan), 119 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  the  Food 
Industry  (Georgia),  214 

Ministry  of  Architecture  and  Urban 
Planning  (Armenia),  59 

Ministry  of  Communications  (Armenia) , 
59 

Ministry  of  Communications  (Georgia), 


284 


Index 


214 

Ministry  of  Construction  (Armenia),  59 
Ministry  of  Culture  (Armenia) ,  60 
Ministry  of  Culture  (Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Defense  (Armenia),  46,  60, 
72-73 

Ministry  of  Defense  (Azerbaijan),  141— 
42 

Ministry  of  Defense  (Georgia),  xlviii,  214 
Ministry  of  Economic  Reform  (Geor- 
gia), 214 

Ministry  of  Economics  (Armenia),  50,  60 
Ministry  of  Economics  (Azerbaijan),  xli 
Ministry  of  Economics  (Georgia),  213 
Ministry  of  Education  (Armenia),  60 
Ministry  of  Education  (Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Energy  and  Fuel  (Armenia), 
60 

Ministry  of  Environment  (Armenia) ,  60 
Ministry  of  Finance  (Armenia),  60 
Ministry  of  Finance  (Azerbaijan) ,  xli 
Ministry  of  Finance  (Georgia),  213,  214 
Ministry  of  Food  and  State  Procurement 

(Armenia),  60 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  (Armenia) , 

60 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  (Azerbaijan), 
144 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  (Georgia), 

213,214,  221 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  (Soviet),  138, 

220 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Economic  Relations 

(Azerbaijan),  126 
Ministry  of  Grain  and  Bread  Products 

(Azerbaijan),  119 
Ministry  of  Health  (Armenia),  40,  60 
Ministry  of  Health  (Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Higher  Education  and  Sci- 
ence (Armenia),  60 
Ministry  of  Industry  (Armenia) ,  li,  60 
Ministry  of  Industry  (Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  (Armenia) , 
xxxii,  60,  77;  collective  security  force 
of,  76 

Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  (Azerbaijan), 
94;  reorganization  of,  xxxix,  146,  147 

Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  (Georgia), 
xlix,  214,  227,  228 

Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  (Soviet 
Union),  164 

Ministry  of  Justice  (Armenia) ,  60 


Ministry  of  Justice  (Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Security 

(Armenia) ,  41 
Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Security 

(Georgia),  214 
Ministry  of  Light  Industry  (Armenia) ,  60 
Ministry  of  National  Security  (Armenia), 

60 

Ministry  of  Natural  Resources  (Arme- 
nia) ,  60 

Ministry  of  Protection  of  the  Environ- 
ment (Azerbaijan),  177 

Ministry  of  Security  (Georgia),  228 

Ministry  of  State  Property  Management 
(Georgia),  213,214 

Ministry  of  the  Environment  (Armenia) , 
28 

Ministry  of  the  Environment  (Georgia), 
214 

Ministry  of  Trade  (Armenia),  60 
Ministry  of  Trade  and  Supply  (Georgia), 
214 

Ministry  of  Transportation  (Armenia), 
60 

Minsk  Group,  1,  65,  67,  139 
Mirza  Fath  Ali  Akhundradzade  Pedagog- 
ical Institute  for  Languages,  112 
Mitsubishi,  205 

Mkhedrioni,  xlv,  xlviii,  168,  227,  229; 
attempts  to  disband,  226;  counterat- 
tack against,  168-69;  discipline  prob- 
lems in,  226 
Moldova:  Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125 
Momine-Khatun  mausoleum,  88 
Mongols:  invasion  of  Azerbaijan  by,  88; 
invasion  of  Georgia  by,  158;  invasion 
of  Russia  by,  179 
mosques:  in  Azerbaijan,  107,  110 
mountains:  in  Armenia,  26;  in  Georgia, 
175 

Mount  Ararat,  26,  28 

Mount  Bazur-dyuzi,  100 

Movement  for  Democratic  Reforms:  in 

elections  of  1992,  132 
Mshvidoba.  See  Peace  Bloc 
Mtkvari  hydroelectric  plant,  1 20 
Mtkvari  River,  100, 176 
mugam,  108 

Musavat  (Equality  party)  (Azerbaijan), 
90 

music:  in  Azerbaijan,  108,  110;  in  Geor- 
gia, 183,  185 


285 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Muslims  (see  also  Islam):  in  Armenia,  31, 
35;  in  Azerbaijan,  103,  106-7;  emigra- 
tion by,  106;  in  Georgia,  183;  as  per- 
centage of  population,  in  Azerbaijan 
107-7 

Muslim  Ecclesiastical  Board,  107 
Muslim  Spiritual  Board  of  Transcauca- 
sia, 107 

Mutalibov,  Ayaz,  94;  as  president,  94,  96, 
97,  130;  resignation  of,  96,  97 


Nadibaidze,  Vardiko,  liv 

Nagorno-Karabakh  (see  also  Karabakh), 
20-25;  Armenian  concerns  about, 
xxix,  19,  20-21,  62;  Armenian  occupa- 
tion of,  24—25;  Armenian  population 
in,  19,  96,  102;  Armenian  protests  in, 
20;  Armenian  support  for,  xxix;  Azer- 
baijanis  in,  96;  control  of,  19;  declared 
part  of  Armenia,  xxviii,  21,  22,  96;  as 
foreign  policy  issue,  xxxi,  Hi,  64,  140, 
141;  Gorbachev's  proposals  for,  21; 
government  of,  65;  independence 
declared  by,  65;  information  cam- 
paigns on,  139;  nationalist  movements 
in,  xxviii,  20-21;  as  national  security 
issue,  141;  population  of,  102;  seces- 
sion from  Azerbaijan  by,  21 

Nagorno-Karabakh  Autonomous 
Region,  xxv,  xxviii,  xxxvi,  19,  94,  99 

Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict,  xxv,  xxviii, 

xxxii,  xxxvi,  xxxix,  24;  casualties  in, 
64,  98;  cease-fires  in,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  xlix, 
25,  65,  67,  98;  economic  effects  of,  50, 
51,  115,  118,  120,  122;  efforts  to 
resolve,  lii-liii,  65,  67,  98-99,  129, 139, 
145;  escalation  of,  21-22;  and  nation- 
alism, 20;  peace  negotiations  in,  xxxii- 

xxxiii,  xxxix,  xl,  1,  lii,  24,  65,  66,  98, 
224;  political  effects  of,  130;  transpor- 
tation disrupted  by,  1 26-27,1 30 

Nairit  Chemical  Plant,  li;  pollution 
caused  by,  29 

Nakhichevan:  Armenian  population  in, 
19;  autonomy  of,  21;  Red  Army  occu- 
pation of,  92 

Nakhichevan  Autonomous  Republic, 
xxxvi,  98,  99,  135;  blockade  of,  118; 
border  with  Armenia,  26,  72 

Nana  (queen),  182 


National  Alliance  (Armenia),  62 
National  Bank  of  Azerbaijan  (NBA),  xlii, 
124 

National  Bank  of  Georgia,  194,  195,  205, 
215 

National  Congress  (Georgia),  168;  mili- 
tia of,  168 

National  Council  (Melli-Majlis)  (Azer- 
baijan), xxxviii,  xli,  131 

National  Council  of  Nagorno-Karabakh, 
21,22,96 

National  Democratic  Group  (Azer- 
baijan): in  elections  of  1992,  132 

National  Democratic  Party  (Georgia), 
liv,  168, 170 

National  Guard  (Georgia) ,  xlv,  168,  174, 
227-28;  attempts  to  disband,  xlv,  170, 
226;  discipline  problems  in,  226;  polit- 
ical involvement  of,  226 

National  Independence  Party  (NIP) 
(Azerbaijan),  130 

nationalism:  anti-Armenian,  20;  in 
Armenia,  13-14,  18-20,  23;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 20;  in  Georgia,  160,  162,  163, 
166;  under  Soviet  rule,  18-20;  sup- 
pression of,  1 7 

nationalist  movements:  in  Armenia,  27; 
in  Georgia,  160;  in  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh, 20-21 

nationalization:  in  Armenia,  42 

National  Liberation  Front  (Georgia),  liii 

National  Resistance  Movement  (Azer- 
baijan), xli 

national  security:  of  Armenia,  xxxii,  70, 
71;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxviii,  145;  censor- 
ship for,  219;  of  Georgia,  229,  230;  and 
Nagorno-Karabakh,  141;  reform  of, 
145 

National  Self-Determination  Union 
(Armenia) ,  63;  platform  of,  62;  sup- 
port for,  62 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Orga- 
nization 

natural  resources:  in  Armenia,  44 
navy.  See  under  armed  forces 
Nazarbayev,  Nursultan,  liii 
NBA.  See  National  Bank  of  Azerbaijan 
Nero,  10 

Netherlands:  Armenians  in,  11 
net  material  product  (NMP):  in  Arme- 
nia, 43;  in  Azerbaijan,  1 18;  in  Georgia, 
190 


286 


Index 


New  Azerbaijan  Party,  130-31 

New  Economic  Policy  (1921-27),  42; 

end  of,  17 
newspapers  {see  also  journalists;  media): 

in  Armenia,  63;  in  Azerbaijan,  138;  in 

Georgia,  219 
Nezami  Ganjavi:  writings  of,  88 
Nino,  Saint,  182 

NIP.  See  National  Independence  Party 
NMP.  See  net  material  product 
North  America:  Armenians  in,  35 
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 

(NATO),  xxxi,  65;  Partnership  for 

Peace,  xxxiii,  xl 
North  Ossetian  Autonomous  Republic, 

179;  border,  with  Georgia,  175 
Novoalekseyevka  airport,  201 


October  11  Bloc,  212 

oil:  in  Armenia,  44;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvi, 
xxxvii,  li,  30,  90,  99,  115;  exploration 
for,  196;  exports  of,  120;  fields,  120;  in 
Georgia,  xlvii,  196;  imports  of,  57,  67, 
196;  offshore,  xlii,  xlvii,  li;  prices,  121; 
production  of,  xxxvii,  116-17,  120, 
121;  refineries,  xlvii,  196 

oil  pipelines,  li,  127-28,  196;  blown  up, 
24;  construction  of,  121-22,  125;  in 
Georgia,  203,  223;  problems  in,  120 

Oman:  in  energy  consortium,  121-22; 
religious  assistance  to  Azerbaijan 
from,  107 

Operation  Provide  Hope,  69 

Operation  Winter  Rescue,  40 

opposition  groups:  in  Armenia,  xxxiv;  in 
Azerbaijan,  xxx;  viii,  xli;  Georgia, 
xlviii,  liii,  166-68 

Ordzhonikidze,  Sergo,  163 

Organisation  for  Security  and  Coopera- 
tion in  Europe  (OSCE),  1,  lii 

Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference: 
Azerbaijan's  membership  in,  140 

OSCE.  See  Organisation  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe 

Ossetian  language,  171, 187 

Ossetian  people,  171;  migration  of,  179, 
181;  separatist  movement  of,  xxvii 

Ottoman  Empire  {see  also  Turkey):  mas- 
sacre of  Armenians  in  (1895),  xxviii, 
14;  reform  in,  13;  struggle  of,  for  con- 


trol of  Transcaucasia,  xxiii,  xxiv,  12 
Ottoman  Turks:  invasion  of  Armenia  by, 
11;  occupation  of  Azerbaijan  by,  91; 
occupation  of  Georgia  by,  158-59, 179 


palace  of  the  Sheki  khans,  109 
palace  of  the  Shirvan  shahs,  88,  109 
paramilitary  groups:  in  Azerbaijan,  144, 
145;  in  Georgia,  xxvii-xxviii,  xlv,  xlviii, 
168, 170, 174,  218 
Paris  Accords  (1993),  137 
Paris  Peace  Conference  (1919),  16 
parliament  (Armenia)  {see  also  Supreme 
Soviet),  58-59;  chairman  of,  58;  com- 
mittees in,  58,  63;  legislation  by,  58- 
59;  members  of,  58;  power  struggle, 
with  president,  58;  quorum  in,  58;  Pre- 
sidium of,  58;  sessions  of,  58;  terms  in, 
58 

parliament  (Georgia),  214-15;  chair  of, 
212;  number  of  seats  in,  207;  powers 
of,  214;  terms  in,  210 

Parsis,  106 

Parthian  s,  10 

Party  of  Democratic  Freedom  (Arme- 
nia) ,  63 

Pashazade,  Allashukur  Humatogly,  107 

Patiashvili,Jumber,  165-66 

Patsatsia,  Otar,  216 

Peace  Bloc  (Mshvidoba),  211-12 

Peace  Corps:  in  Armenia,  70 

peasants:  revolt  in  Georgia  (1905),  161; 

under  Soviet  Union,  42 
Pedagogical  Institute  (Azerbaijan),  112 
pensions:  in  Azerbaijan,  114;  in  Georgia, 

190 

perestroika:  effects  of,  20 

periodicals:  Armenian,  63-64;  Azer- 
baijani, 138;  journals,  63-64;  maga- 
zines, 63, 138 

Persian  Empire:  Armenia  under,  11; 
Georgia  under,  158-59;  influence  on 
Azerbaijan,  xxiv,  87-88;  influence  on 
Georgia,  181,  184;  struggle  for  control 
of  Transcaucasia,  xxiii,  xxiv,  12;  Tbilisi 
sacked  by,  1 59 

Persian  language:  broadcasts  in,  56 

petroleum.  See  oil 

Phrygians,  29 

pogroms,  96 


287 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Poland:  Armenians  in,  35;  Azerbaijan's 
trade  with,  125;  Georgia's  trade  with, 
205 

police  force:  in  Armenia,  xxxii,  76 
Political  Consultative  Council  (Georgia): 

formed,  170,  209;  members  of,  170, 

209 

political  demonstrations:  in  Armenia, 
xxxiv,  10,  20,  21,  24;  in  Azerbaijan,  21, 
130,  131;  in  Georgia,  161,  164,  170, 
206;  about  Nagorno-Karabakh,  20,  21, 
130 

political  instability:  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvii, 

97-98;  in  Georgia,  xliv 
political  parties  (see  also  under  individual 
parties):  in  Armenia,  xxxiv,  58,  61-62; 
in  Azerbaijan,  90,  92,  129-31;  in  Geor- 
gia, 160,  208,  210-11;  opposition, 
129-31,  208;  regulations  on,  131 
political  unrest:  in  early  Armenia,  10;  in 

Georgia,  161,  170 
political  violence:  anti-Armenian,  20;  in 

Azerbaijan,  20 
pollution.  See  environmental  problems 
Polytechnic  Institute  (Azerbaijan),  112 
Popular  Front  Party  (Georgia) ,  208 
population:  age  distribution  in  Georgia, 
178;  of  Armenia,  16,  26,  30,  31,  40, 
178;  of  Azerbaijan,  xxxvi,  19,  90,  96, 
101,102,  107;  of  Baku,  90,  101;  density 
in  Armenia,  30;  density  in  Azerbaijan, 
101;  distribution  in  Armenia,  26;  dis- 
tribution in  Azerbaijan,  101;  distribu- 
tion in  Soviet  Union,  30;  of  Erevan, 
30;  of  Georgia,  178;  of  Gyandzha,  102; 
of  Leninakan,  31;  of  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh, 102;  Russians  in,  90;  of  Sumgait, 
102;  urban,  xxxvi,  26,  178 
population  percentages:  Armenians  in 
Armenia,  16;  Armenians  in  Azer- 
baijan, xxxvi;  Armenians  in  Nagorno- 
Karabakh,  xxxvi,  19,  96;  Armenians  in 
Nakhichevan,  19;  Armenians  in  Soviet 
Union,  30;  Armenians  in  Turkey,  15, 
30;  Azerbaijanis  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvi; 
Azerbaijanis  in  Nagorno-Karabakh, 
96;  Muslims  in  Azerbaijan,  107;  in  pov- 
erty, 114 

population  statistics:  birth  rate,  31,  102, 
178;  death  rate,  31,  102;  fertility  rate, 
102;  growth  rate,  102, 178;  infant  mor- 
tality rate,  40,  114,  178,  189;  life 


expectancy,  31,  102,  178;  maternal 
mortality,  40 

Poti,  port  of,  176,  201-2;  reorganization 
of,  165 

poverty:  in  Azerbaijan,  114 

press  See  journalists;  media;  newspapers 

prices:  adjustments  to,  192-93;  agricul- 
tural, 1 1 8;  in  Armenia,  xxx,  xxxv,  1,  53; 
in  Azerbaijan,  xli,  lii,  117,  118;  con- 
trols on,  114,  117,  204;  of  fuel,  56;  in 
Georgia,  xlvi,  liv,  192-93,  204;  liberal- 
ization of,  122-23,  204 

prime  minister  (Armenia),  58,  59 

prime  minister  (Georgia),  215 

prison  system:  in  Armenia,  77-78; 
reform  of,  78 

privatization,  xxvii,  xxxv;  in  Armenia,  li, 
50,  51;  in  Azerbaijan,  123;  in  Georgia, 
xlv,  xlvi,  liv,  204-5;  under  Gorbachev, 
48;  of  land,  44;  problems  with,  50 

Project  Hope,  40 

Protestants:  in  Armenia,  35 

purges:  by  Aliyev,  135;  in  Azerbaijan,  93, 
110,  135;  under  Khruschev,  93;  under 
Shevardnadze,  164;  under  Stalin,  92, 
110 


radio:  in  Armenia,  56,  63;  in  Georgia, 

203 

railroads,  165;  in  Armenia,  55;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 126-27,  130;  destruction  of, 
65,  126-27,  130;  in  Georgia,  65,  191, 
200-201;  from  Russia,  lii 

Razdan  Hydroelectric  Plant,  47 

Razdan  River,  26 

Red  Army:  Georgians  in,  163;  invasion  of 
Azerbaijan  by,  91 ;  invasion  of  Georgia 
by,  162;  occupation  of  Nakhichevan 
by,  92 

referendum  to  secede:  in  Armenia,  23; 
in  Azerbaijan,  97;  in  Georgia,  169 

refugees:  in  Armenia,  42;  Armenian,  15, 
25,  30,  42,  96;  from  Armenia,  102; 
from  Azerbaijan,  xl,  30;  in  Azerbaijan, 
lii,  98,  101,  116,  124,  129,  146;  Azer- 
baijani, 30,  96,  99,  102;  in  Baku,  101; 
from  Central  Asia,  30;  from  Georgia, 
30;  in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlvii-xlviii,  189; 
Ossetian,  171;  from  Russia,  30;  in 
Sumgait,  102;  from  Turkey,  42;  unem- 


288 


Index 


ployment  among,  116 

religion  {see  also  under  individual  sects): 
animist,  107;  in  Armenia,  10,  11,  31, 
32-35;  in  Azerbaijan,  88-89,  103,  106- 
7;  in  Georgia,  158,  159,  163,  182-83 

Renault,  205 

Repentance  (Abuladze) ,  1 85 

Republic  AIDS  and  Immunodeficiency 

Center  (Georgia),  189 
revolution  of  1908  (Turkey),  14 
Ria  Taze  (New  Way) ,  63 
Rioni  River,  176 

rivers:  in  Armenia,  26;  in  Azerbaijan, 

100;  in  Georgia,  176 
roads:  in  Armenia,  53-56;  in  Azerbaijan, 

126;  in  Georgia,  200;  vehicles  on,  54- 

55, 126 

Roman  Catholics:  in  Armenia,  35 
Roman  Empire:  Armenia  in,  10;  Georgia 

in,  xxiv,  158;  influence  of,  on  Georgia, 

184 

Romania:  Georgia's  relations  with,  220 

Round  Table/Free  Georgia,  168,  208; 
formed,  206;  militia  of,  168 

rural  areas:  electricity  in,  45 

Russia  (see  also  Commonwealth  of  Inde- 
pendent States;  Soviet  Union):  Arme- 
nian dependence  on,  70,  71; 
Armenians  in,  30,  35;  arms  sales  to, 
46;  Azerbaijan's  dependence  on,  115; 
Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125;  discrimi- 
nation against  Armenians,  14;  eco- 
nomic blockade  of  Georgia  by,  192;  in 
energy  consortium,  121^22;  energy 
from,  46;  exports  to,  57,  120;  hege- 
mony of,  68;  imports  from,  196;  influ- 
ence on  Armenia,  xxiii,  xxvi,  13; 
influence  on  Azerbaijan,  xxiii,  xxvi, 
89-90;  influence  on  Georgia,  xxiii, 
xxvi,  181,  184;  Karabakh  peace  plan 
of,  xxvii,  xxxiii,  lii,  67;  law  enforce- 
ment training  in,  147;  martial  law 
declared  by,  161;  massacre  of  Arme- 
nians in  (1905),  14;  military  assistance 
from,  xxviii,  227,  230;  military  cooper- 
ation with  Armenia,  67,  71,  143;  mili- 
tary presence  in  Abkhazia,  xlv; 
military  presence  in  Armenia,  xxxii, 
70;  military  presence  in  Azerbaijan, 
xxviii-xxxix,  xliv,  141-43;  military 
presence  in  Georgia,  xlv,  xlvi,  227;  mil- 
itary training  by,  74,  75-76,  143;  oil 


from,  196;  peace  negotiations  spon- 
sored by,  xxxii,  24,  25,  65,  67-68,  98, 
139,  174,  224;  relations  with  Armenia, 
xxxi,  xxxiii,  67,  70,  71,  143;  relations 
with  Azerbaijan,  xxxviii,  lii,  139,  140- 
41;  relations  with  Georgia,  220,  221, 
224-25;  strategic  importance  of  Geor- 
gia to,  225;  support  for  Abkhazia,  xxv- 
xxvi,  174,  224;  television  broadcasts 
from,  127 

Russian  Communist  Party  (Bolshevik). 
See  Bolsheviks 

Russian  Empire:  Armenia  in,  12-13; 
Azerbaijan  in,  89,  110;  control  of 
Transcaucasia  by,  xxiii,  xxiv-xxv,  12; 
Georgiaannexed  by,  159-62,  182; 
influence  of,  11-13;  occupation  of 
Georgia  by,  159 

Russian  language:  broadcasts  in,  56,  203; 
publications  in,  63;  as  school  subject, 
38;  spoken  by  Armenians,  19,  33,  38; 
spoken  by  Azerbaijanis,  105;  spoken 
by  Georgians,  182 

Russian  Orthodox  Church:  in  Azer- 
baijan, 107;  in  Georgia,  183;  Georgian 
Orthodox  Church  under,  1 82 

Russian  people:  in  Abkhazia,  178,  179;  in 
Armenia,  31;  in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvi,  102; 
in  Baku,  90;  in  Georgia,  178;  migra- 
tion of,  181 

Russian  revolution  (1917),  162 

Russian  Social  Democratic  Party,  160 

Russification:  under  Aliyev,  135;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 110,  135;  of  Georgia,  159,  164 

Rustaveli,  Shota,  1 84 

Rustaveli  Theater,  1 85 

Rustavi  Choir,  185 


Safavid  Dynasty,  89,  106 

Safavid  Persia.  See  Persian  Empire 

Sakartvelos  Respublika  (The  Georgian 

Republic),  219 
Sakharov  Fund,  63 

SANS.  See  State  Administration  for 

National  Security 
Sarkisian,  Vazgan,  72 
Saudi  Arabia:  religious  assistance  to 

Azerbaijan  from,  107 
Scientific  and  Technical  Commission, 

216 


289 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


schools:  in  Armenia,  38-39;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 111,  112;  closed,  47;  enroll- 
ment in,  38,  112;  in  Georgia,  186-87; 
private,  186-87;  religious,  111 

Seljuk  Turks:  invasion  of  Armenia  by,  11; 
invasion  of  Azerbaijan  by,  88 

Shakespeare,  William,  185 

Shevardnadze,  Eduard,  xxviii,  210; 
career  of,  164-65;  as  chairman  of  par- 
liament, 212;  economy  under,  204-5; 
as  first  secretary  of  Georgian  Commu- 
nist Party,  164-65;  foreign  relations 
under,  220;  as  head  of  state,  xliv,  xlviii, 
liii,  66,  212,  213-16,  218,  221;  influ- 
ence of,  206;  power  of,  215;  purges  by, 
164;  reforms  under,  165,  204;  role  of, 
213;  in  State  Council  Presidium,  170 

Shir  van  Dynasty,  88 

Shirvani,  Abul  Hasan,  108 

Shultz,  George,  220 

Shusha  region,  lii 

Sigua,  Tengiz,  liii,  169,  170,  208;  in  Mili- 
tary Council,  170;  as  prime  minister, 
210,  213;  in  State.  Council  Presidium, 
170 

silk,  108 

Social  Democratic  Hnchak  party:  dis- 
solved, 13-14 

Social  Democratic  Party  (Azerbaijan),  90 

social  welfare:  in  Armenia,  41;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 114-15;  in  Georgia,  198-90 

South  Ossetian  Autonomous  Region, 
179;  earthquake  in,  176;  elections  in, 
208,  212;  ethnic  tensions  in,  218; 
Georgians  in,  179;  Ossetians  in,  179; 
protests  in,  191;  refugees  from,  171; 
separatist  movement  in,  xxvii,  xliii, 
171;  war  in,  171,  191,  195,224 

Sovetashen  prison,  77 

Soviet  Union  (see  also  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States;  Russia):  Armenia 
in,  16-23;  Armenians  in,  30;  Arme- 
nian opposition  to,  20;  Azerbaijan  in, 
16;  banking  under,  124;  corruption  in, 
17,  18;  economy  under,  42,  190-91; 
elite  class  in,  18;  foreign  relations 
under,  138,  219,  220-21;  Georgia  in, 
16,  219;  Georgian  Orthodox  Church 
under,  182;  health  care  under,  187-88; 
imperialism  of,  15-16;  industry  under, 
195;  invasion  by,  of  Armenia,  23;  inva- 
sion by,  of  Azerbaijan,  22;  legislation 


of,  58;  media  under,  63;  military  sys- 
tem of,  142;  political  parties  under,  61; 
prison  system  of,  77-78 
Sovietization,  xxv 

Spanish  language:  broadcasts  in,  56 
Special  Administrative  Committee,  21 
Spitak:  attack  on  Azerbaijanis  in,  96 
Stalin,  Joseph  V.,  17,  161-62;  architec- 
ture under,  184;  communications 
under,  1 8;  agriculture  under,  92;  econ- 
omy under,  42;  education  under,  18; 
executions  by,  18,  163;  forced  reloca- 
tions under,  xxvii,  180;  industry  under, 
18,  92;  literacy  under,  18,  92;  purges 
by,  92, 110, 163 
Stalinist  restructuring,  17-18,  92-93 
standard  of  living.  See  living  standards 
State  Administration  for  National  Secu- 
rity (SANS)  (Armenia),  76-77 
State  Airline  Company  of  Armenia,  55- 
56 

State  Bank  of  Armenia  (Gosbank  Arme- 
nia), 52 

State  Committee  for  Television  and 
Radio  Broadcasting  (Armenia),  56 

State  Council  (Georgia):  formed,  170, 
209;  members  of,  170,  209-10 

State  Duma,  li 

state  enterprises,  xxvii;  in  Azerbaijan,  xli, 
124;  in  Georgia,  xlvi,  194,  204-5;  priva- 
tization of,  204-5 

State  Planning  Committee  (Gosplan),  56 

State  Program  on  the  Privatization  of 
State  Enterprises  (Georgia),  205 

State  Security  Service  (Georgia),  xlix 

strikes,  161;  by  Azerbaijani  Popular 
Front,  93-94,  130;  in  Georgia,  161, 
166,  191,206 

subsidies:  in  Azerbaijan,  114,  115;  for 
energy,  124;  for  food,  114,  115,  124, 
204;  in  Georgia,  1,  190,  204 

suffrage.  See  voting 

Sukhumi:  port  of,  201,  203;  university  in, 
186 

Suleymanov,  Nizami,  132 

Sumgait:  industry  in,  119;  massacre  of 
Armenians  in,  20,  96;  population  of, 
102;  refugees  in,  102 

Supreme  Court  (Armenia) ,  60 

Supreme  Court  (Azerbaijan),  136;  sover- 
eignty declared  by,  94 

Supreme  Court  (Georgia),  216-17 


290 


Index 


Supreme  Religious  Council  of  the  Cau- 
casus Peoples,  107 

Supreme  Soviet  (Abkhazia),  174 

Supreme  Soviet  (Armenia),  xxx,  58,  96; 
elections  for,  20;  and  Nagorno-Kara- 
bakh conflict,  21;  newspaper  of,  63 

Supreme  Soviet  (Azerbaijan),  94;  elec- 
tions for,  131 

Supreme  Soviet  (Georgia),  168,  214-15 

Surakhany  Temple,  106,  109 

Surami  mountain  range,  175 

Syria:  Armenians  in,  30;  influence  of,  on 
Georgia,  184;  trade  with,  57 


Taghiyev,  Haji  Zeinal  Adibin,  110 
Tajikstan:  military  cooperation  with 

Armenia,  67,  71 
Talish  Mountains,  100 
Talish  people,  103 
Tamara,  Queen,  158 
Tamerlane.  See  Timur 
Tanzimat  (reform),  13 
Tatars,  14 
Tat  people,  103 

taxes:  in  Armenia,  52;  in  Azerbaijan, 
123-24,  125;  in  Georgia,  190, 195,  205 

Tbilisi:  Armenian  refugees  in,  15;  Arme- 
nians in,  65;  destruction  of,  158,  159; 
Jews  in,  183;  oil  exploitation  in,  30;  oil 
refinery  in,  xlvii;  population  of,  178; 
subway  system  of,  201;  university  in, 
186 

Tbilisi  City  Court,  218 

teachers:  in  Armenian  independence 

movement,  13 
Tee  Kanes  tea  company,  205 
telecommunications:  in  Armenia,  56;  in 

Azerbaijan,  128-29;  employment  in, 

51;  in  Georgia,  xlvii,  203;  under  Stalin, 

18 

telephones:  in  Armenia,  56;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 128-29;  in  Georgia,  203 

television:  in  Armenia,  56;  in  Azerbaijan, 
129, 138;  in  Georgia,  203,  219 

Temporary  Regulation  of  the  Georgian 
Parliament,  214-15 

Ter-Grigoriants,  Norat,  72 

Ter-Petrosian,  Levon:  background  of,  59; 
conflict  with  parliament,  58;  as  chair- 
man of  Supreme  Soviet,  22,  23,  58; 


power  of,  59;  as  president,  xxx,  xxxiii, 
xxxiv,  liii,  24,  40,  58,  59,  64 

terrorism:  by  Armenians,  71;  by  Azer- 
baijanis,  xxxiv,  24 

Terter  hydroelectric  plant,  120 

Thaddeus  (apostle),  33 

Thatcher,  Margaret,  220 

theater:  in  Azerbaijan,  110;  in  Georgia, 
183, 185 

Tigran  II  (Tigranes),  10 

Tigranes.  See  Tigran  II 

Tigran  the  Great.  See  Tigran  II 

Timur  (Tamerlane):  invasion  of  Azer- 
baijan by,  88;  invasion  of  Georgia  by, 
158 

TiridatesI,  10 

Tiridates  III:  Christianity  accepted  by,  10 
topography:  of  Armenia,  26;  of  Azer- 
baijan, 99-100;  of  Georgia,  175-76 
To  the  Heights  of  Conviction  (Fuzuli),  108 
tourism:  environmental  threats  to,  177; 

in  Georgia,  177,  190 
Trabzon  Empire,  158 
trade  (see  also  exports;  imports):  by 
Armenia,  56-57;  by  Azerbaijan,  xlii,  Hi, 
57,  115,  120,  125-26,  196;  deficit,  57; 
by  former  Soviet  republics,  116;  by 
Georgia,  192,  205-6,  219,  224;  obsta- 
cles to,  125;  Soviet  system  of,  41,  56- 
57,  125 

Transcaucasia,  xxiii,  xxv,  xxxv-xxxvi;  eth- 
nic tensions  in,  15;  imperial  struggles 
over,  12 

Transcaucasian  federation,  15 

Transcaucasian  Metallurgical  Plant  at 
Rustavi,  195-96 

Transcaucasian  railroad,  165 

Transcaucasian  Soviet  Federated  Social- 
ist Republic  (TSFSR),  xxv;  Armenia 
in,  16,  91-92,  163;  Azerbaijan  in,  16, 
91-92,  163;  dissolved,  16,  92,  163; 
Georgia  in,  16,  91-92,  163 

Transcaucasus  Military  District,  227 

transportation:  air,  127;  in  Armenia, 
xxix,  53-56;  in  Azerbaijan,  126-28, 
130;  employment  in,  51;  in  Georgia, 
65,  175,  191,  199-203,  223;  infrastruc- 
ture, 44,  175;  maintenance  of,  199; 
railroads,  55,  191;  roads,  53-54;  subsi- 
dies for,  115;  subways,  109,  127,  201 

Treaty  of  Aleksandropol'  (1920),  16 

Treaty  of  Berlin  (1878),  179 


291 


Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Georgia:  Country  Studies 


Treaty  of  Gulistan  (1813),  89 

Treaty  of  Kars  (1921),  92 

Treaty  of  Moscow  (1921),  92 

Treaty  of  Sevres  (1920),  16 

Treaty  of  Turkman  chay  (1828),  89 

Treaty  on  Collective  Security,  70,  76,  141 

Tsereteli,  Irakli,  xlviii 

TSFSR.  See  Transcaucasian  Soviet  Feder- 
ated Socialist  Republic 

Turkey:  Armenians  in,  11,  15,  30,  35; 
Armenian  terrorism  in,  71;  Azer- 
baijan's trade  with,  125;  border 
maneuvers  by,  98;  border  with  Arme- 
nia, 26;  border  with  Georgia,  175;  for- 
eign policy  of,  71;  imperialism  of,  16; 
influence  on  Georgia,  181;  investment 
in  Georgia,  225;  massacre  of  Arme- 
nians in  (1895),  14,  29;  massacre  of 
Armenians  in  (1915),  14-15,  29,  35, 
38,  66;  military  training  by,  144;  peace 
negotiations  sponsored  by,  24,  64,  139; 
peace  plan  of,  67;  recovery  of  territory 
from,  23;  relations  with  Armenia,  xxxi, 
xxxiv,  65,  66,  71;  relations  with  Azer- 
baijan, xxxi,  70,  71,  138,  139;  relations 
with  Georgia,  220,  221,  225;  television 
broadcasts  from,  127;  trade  with,  57, 
225 

Turkic  influence:  on  Azerbaijan,  xxiv 
Turkish  language:  broadcasts  in,  56; 

introduction  of,  in  Azerbaijan,  88-89 
Turkmenistan:  Azerbaijanis  in,  102; 
Azerbaijan's  trade  with,  125;  natural 
gas  from,  xxxv,  xlvii,  1-li,  48,  122 
Turks,  Mamluk.  See  Mamluk  Turks 
Turks,  Ottoman.  See  Ottoman  Turks 
Turks,  Seljuk.  See  Seljuk  Turks 


Ukraine:  Azerbaijanis  in,  102;  Azer- 
baijan's trade  with,  125;  exports  to, 
120;  law  enforcement  training  in,  147 

Ukrainian  people:  in  Armenia,  31; 
migration  of,  181 

unemployment:  in  Armenia,  xxx,  41,  51; 
in  Azerbaijan,  xxxvii,  114,  116;  bene- 
fits, 41,  190;  in  Georgia,  xlvi;  among 
refugees,  116 

Union  for  the  Revival  of  Ajaria,  211 

Union  of  Democratic  Intelligentsia:  in 
elections  of  1992,  132 


United  Nations:  Azerbaijani  representa- 
tive to,  103;  Azerbaijan's  membership 
in,  140;  Georgia's  membership  in,  221; 
observers  from,  xlv;  peace  negotia- 
tions sponsored  by,  liv-lv,  1 74 

United  States:  aid  from,  liv,  40,  42,  68, 
220-21;  Armenians  in,  30,  34;  Arme- 
nian trade  with,  57,  68;  military  assis- 
tance from,  144;  peace  plan  of,  67,  68, 
139;  relations  with  Armenia,  xxxi, 
xxxiii,  68,  69-70;  relations  with  Azer- 
baijan, xxxiii,  xl,  139;  relations  with 
Georgia,  liv,  219,  220,  221;  trade  with 
Azerbaijan,  68 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  70 

United  States  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, 69 

United  States  Department  of  State,  146 
United  States  Freedom  Support  Act 

(1992),  140 
United  States  Information  Agency 

(USIA),70 
Unity  Bloc  (Ertoba),  212 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 

135 

universities,  47 

university  of  Azerbaijan  ,112 

Urartu,  kingdom  of,  9,  29;  arts  in,  36-37 

urban  areas:  Armenians  in,  30;  popula- 
tion in,  26,  178 

urbanization:  in  Armenia,  18,  30;  envi- 
ronmental problems  caused  by,  18-19; 
in  Georgia,  163 

USIA.  See  United  States  Information 
Agency 

Uzbekistan:  Azerbaijanis  in,  102;  Azer- 
baijan's relations  with,  141;  military 
cooperation  of,  with  Armenia,  67,  71 

Uzeir  Hajibeyli  Conservatory,  112 


Vanadzor  Chemical  Combine:  pollution 

caused  by,  29 
Vartan,  Saint:  statue  of,  18 
Vazgen  I,  34 

Venice:  Armenians  in,  11 

Verk  Haiastani  (The  Wounds  of  Armenia) 

(Abovian),  37 
volcanoes,  99 

Volunteer  Society  for  Assistance  to  the 


292 


Index 


Army,  Air  Force,  and  Navy,  74 


wages:  adjustments  to,  193;  in  Azer- 
baijan, xli;  in  Georgia,  xlvi,  193-94; 
minimum,  xli,  xlvi,  1 14 

Warsaw  Pact,  65 

Western  influence:  on  Armenia,  13;  on 
Georgia,  181 

wine:  in  Azerbaijan,  118 

women:  in  agriculture,  45;  education  of, 
111;  maternity  leave  for,  190;  rights  of, 
in  Azerbaijan,  103;  roles  of,  in  Azer- 
baijan, 103 

workforce:  percentage  of,  in  agriculture, 
44,  118;  in  Armenia,  51-52;  in  Azer- 
baijan, 116;  laws  regarding,  59;  per- 
centage in  industry,  42 

working  class:  in  Georgia,  160 

World  Bank:  and  Armenia,  xxxi,  1,  50- 
51;  and  Azerbaijan,  xlii 

World  War  I:  Armenia  in,  15-16,  42; 
Azerbaijan  in,  90-91;  realignment  fol- 
lowing, 15-16 


World  War  II:  Georgia  in,  163 

writers:  in  Armenian  independence 

movement,  13;  in  Azerbaijan,  111; 

purged,  110 


Yeltsin,  Boris  N.,  lii,  65,  67,  139,  170 
Yerokoian  Yerevan  (Evening  Erevan),  63 
Yezidi  (Christian  Kurds):  in  Armenia,  31 
Young  Turks,  14-15;  genocide  by,  14-15, 

35,  38;  revolution  by,  14 
Yunosova,  Leyla,  130 
Yuzbashian,  Marius,  62,  77 


Zangezur  region,  72 
Zarathustra.  See  Zoroaster 
Zhordania,  Noe,  162;  exiled,  162 
Zoroaster  (Zarathustra),  106 
Zoroastrianism,  xxiv,  88,  182 
Zvartnots  airport,  55 


293 


Contributors 


Glenn  E.  Curtis  is  Senior  Research  Analyst  for  Eastern  Europe 
and  Central  Eurasia  in  the  Federal  Research  Division, 
Library  of  Congress. 

James  Nichol  is  a  specialist  in  the  Caucasus  and  Central  Asia  for 
the  Congressional  Research  Service,  Library  of  Congress. 

Darrell  Slider  is  Associate  Professor  in  the  Department  of  Gov- 
ernment and  International  Affairs,  University  of  South 
Florida. 

Ronald  G.  Suny  is  Professor  of  History  and  holder  of  the  Arme- 
nia Chair  at  the  University  of  Michigan. 


295 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-98 

Albania 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-59 

Angola 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-167 

Finland 

550-111 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

550-173 

Germany,  East 

and  Georgia 

550-169 

Australia 

550-155 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-176 

Austria 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-87 

Greece 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-61 

Burma 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-21 

India 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-159 

Chad 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-77 

Chile 

550-68 

Iran 

550-60 

China 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-25 

Israel 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Carib- 

550-182 

Italy 

bean,  Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-30 

Japan 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory 

550-56 

Kenya 

Coast) 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic 

550-24 

Lebanon 

and  Haiti 

297 


550-38  Liberia 

550-85  Libya 

550-172  Malawi 

550-45  Malaysia 

550-161  Mauritania 

550-79  Mexico 

550-76  Mongolia 

550-49  Morocco 

550-64  Mozambique 

550-35  Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-88  Nicaragua 

550-157  Nigeria 

550-94  Oceania 

550-48  Pakistan 

550-46  Panama 

550-156  Paraguay 

550-1 85  Persian  Gulf  States 

550-42  Peru 

550-72  Philippines 

550-162  Poland 

550-181  Portugal 

550-160  Romania 

5 50-3 7  Rwanda  and  B  urundi 

550-51  Saudi  Arabia 

550-70  Senegal 


550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

298 


/ 


I 


PIN:  073707-000 


