area  handbook  series 

Bolivia 

a  country  study 


Bolivia 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Rex  A.  Hudson  and 
Dennis  M.  Hanratty 
Research  Completed 
December  1  989 


On  the  cover:  The  Twelfth  of  the  Autumnal  Equinox,  main 
figure  on  the  back  of  the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku,  a 
monolithic  pillar  excavated  in  1932 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1991. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Bolivia  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Rex  A.  Hudson  and  Dennis  M.  Hanratty.  — 
3rd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series)  (DA  pam  ;  550-66) 
"Supersedes  the  1973  edition  of  Area  handbook  for  Bolivia  / 
coauthors:  Thomas  E.  Weil  and  others"  —  T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  December  1989." 
Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  297-328)  and  index. 
Supt.  of  Docs.  no.  :  D  101.22:550-66/989 

1.  Bolivia.    I.  Hudson,  Rex  A.,  1947-    .  II.  Hanratty,  Dennis 
Michael,  1950-    .  III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research 
Division.  IV.  Area  handbook  for  Bolivia.  V.  Series.  VI.  Series: 
DA  pam  ;  550-66. 
F3308.B685       1991  90-26427 
984— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-66 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of 
Thomas  E.  Weil,  Jan  Knippers  Black,  Howard  I.  Blutstein,  Hans  J. 
Hoyer,  Kathryn  T.  Johnston,  and  David  S.  McMorris,  who  wrote 
the  1973  edition  of  the  Area  Handbook  for  Bolivia.  The  present  volume 
incorporates  portions  of  their  work. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  agencies  of 
the  United  States  government  and  private  institutions  who  gave 
their  time,  research  materials,  and  special  knowledge  to  provide 
information  and  perspective.  None  of  these  agencies  or  institutions 
is  in  any  way  responsible  for  the  work  of  the  authors,  however. 

The  authors  also  would  like  to  thank  those  who  contributed  di- 
rectly to  the  manuscript.  These  include  Richard  F.  Nyrop,  who 
reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency; 
Sandra  W.  Meditz,  who  performed  the  substantive  review  of  all 
textual  and  graphic  materials;  Mimi  Cantwell,  who  edited  the  chap- 
ters; Martha  E.  Hopkins,  who  managed  editing;  Andrea  T.  Merrill, 
who  managed  production;  and  Barbara  Edgerton,  Janie  L.  Gilchrist, 
and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing.  In  addition, 
Beverly  Wolpert  performed  the  final  prepublication  editorial  review, 
and  Shirley  Kessel  compiled  the  index.  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the 
Library  of  Congress  Printing  and  Processing  Section  performed 
phototypesetting,  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto,  who  was  assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  and 
Kimberly  A.  Lord,  provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  David  P. 
Cabitto  prepared  the  illustrations,  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  prepared  the 
ranks  and  insignia  charts,  and  Kimberly  A.  Lord  prepared  all  the 
maps  except  for  the  topography  and  drainage  map,  which  was  pre- 
pared by  Harriett  R.  Blood.  Tim  Merrill  provided  geographic 
support. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  the  public  and  private  agencies,  as  well  as  the  Embassy  of 
Bolivia,  who  allowed  their  photographs  to  be  used  in  this  study. 
The  authors  are  particularly  indebted  to  Kevin  Healy  of  the  Inter- 
American  Foundation  for  providing  many  of  the  photographs  used 
in  this  volume. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments    v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction                                     ,   xxiii 

Chapter  1.   Historical  Setting   1 

Maria  Luise  Wagner 

PRE-COLUMBIAN  CIVILIZATIONS    5 

CONQUEST  AND  COLONIAL  RULE,  1532-1809    7 

Conquest  and  Settlement   7 

The  Economy  of  Upper  Peru    8 

State,  Church,  and  Society    11 

INDEPENDENCE  FROM  SPAIN  AND  THE  EARLY 

NATIONAL  PERIOD,  1809-39    15 

Struggle  for  Independence   15 

Construction  of  Bolivia:  Bolivar,  Sucre,  and 

Santa  Cruz    16 

POLITICAL  INSTABILITY  AND  ECONOMIC 

DECLINE,  1839-79    19 

FROM  THE  WAR  OF  THE  PACIFIC  TO  THE  CHACO 

WAR,  1879-1935    22 

War  of  the  Pacific    22 

Reconstruction  and  the  Rule  of  the  Conservatives    ...  23 

The  Liberal  Party  and  the  Rise  of  Tin    25 

The  Republican  Party  and  the  Great  Depression   ....  27 

The  Chaco  War    29 

PRELUDE  TO  REVOLUTION,  1935-52   30 

Radical  Military  Government    30 

The  Rise  of  New  Political  Groups   31 

The  "Sexenio,"  1946-52    33 

THE  BOLIVIAN  NATIONAL  REVOLUTION,  1952-64   ...  35 

Radical  Reforms    35 

The  Unfinished  Revolution    37 

MILITARY  RULE,  1964-82    39 

The  Presidency  of  Barrientos   39 

Revolutionary  Nationalism:  Ovando  and  Torres   41 


vii 


The  Banzer  Regime    43 

The  Tumultuous  Transition  to  Democracy,  1978-82    .  45 

Chapter  2.   The  Society  and  Its  Environment    49 

Patricia  Kluck 

GEOGRAPHY    52 

Natural  Regions    52 

Climate    56 

POPULATION  AND  REGIONAL  DISTRIBUTION   58 

ETHNIC  GROUPS    59 

Lowland  Indians    62 

Altiplano,  Yungas,  and  Valley  Indians    63 

Mestizos  and  Cholos    66 

Whites    69 

SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION   70 

Rural  Society   70 

Urban  Society    74 

Family  and  Kin   79 

MIGRATION  AND  URBANIZATION    82 

Migration    82 

Urbanization    86 

RELIGION    89 

EDUCATION    93 

HEALTH  AND  SOCIAL  SECURITY    96 

Chapter  3.   The  Economy    99 

Daniel  J.  Seyler 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   102 

ECONOMIC  POLICY    106 

Fiscal  Policy    106 

Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Policies    108 

LABOR    109 

Formal  Sector    109 

Informal  Sector    112 

AGRICULTURE    113 

Land  Tenure    114 

Land  Reform  and  Land  Policy    115 

Land  Use    116 

Crops   119 

Farming  Technology    126 

Livestock    126 

Forestry  and  Fishing    127 

ENERGY    128 

Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas   129 

Electricity    132 


Vlll 


MINING    133 

Structure  of  the  Mining  Industry    133 

Tin  and  Related  Metals    136 

Other  Metals  and  Minerals   138 

MANUFACTURING  AND  CONSTRUCTION    139 

SERVICES    142 

Banking  and  Financial  Services   142 

Transportation   144 

Communications    148 

Tourism   149 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   149 

Foreign  Trade    149 

Balance  of  Payments    152 

Debt    153 

Foreign  Assistance   155 

Chapter  4.   Government  and  Politics    159 

Eduardo  A.  Gamarra 

CONSTITUTIONAL  BACKGROUND    162 

GOVERNMENTAL  STRUCTURE    169 

The  Executive    169 

The  Legislature    172 

The  Judiciary    176 

The  Electoral  System   178 

Departmental  and  Local  Government    180 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    182 

The  Legacy  of  the  1952  Revolution    182 

The  Tortuous  Transition  to  Democracy    184 

Democracy  and  Economic  Stabilization   187 

The  1989  Elections    190 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups    194 

The  Media    205 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    207 

The  United  States    209 

The  Soviet  Union   212 

The  Third  World    213 

Neighboring  Countries    215 

Membership  in  International  Organizations    217 

Chapter  5.   National  Security   219 

Rex  A.  Hudson 

EVOLUTION  OF  THE  MILITARY  ROLE  IN  SOCIETY 

AND  GOVERNMENT   222 

Early  History   222 


ix 


The  Legacy  of  the  Chaco  War    224 

Reorganization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1952-66    226 

The  Counterinsurgency  Decade   229 

Military  Intervention  in  Politics,  1970-85    230 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    230 

Mission  and  Organization    230 

Army   233 

Navy    234 

Air  Force   235 

Civil  Aeronautics   236 

Civic  Action    237 

Defense  Budget    238 

MANPOWER  AND  TRAINING   238 

Conscription    238 

Ranks,  Uniforms,  and  Insignia    239 

Military  Schools    240 

Military  Justice    245 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  ASSISTANCE  IN  THE  1980s   245 

The  United  States    245 

Other  Foreign  Military  Ties    247 

THE  SECURITY  FORCES    247 

Historical  Background    247 

Mission  and  Organization    248 

Special  Police  Forces    249 

Regional  Police  Structure    251 

Recruitment  and  Training   253 

THREATS  TO  INTERNAL  SECURITY   254 

Narcotics  Trafficking   254 

Subversive  Groups   266 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   267 

The  Criminal  Justice  System   267 

The  Penal  System    271 

Incidence  of  Crime    273 

Appendix.  Tables    279 

Bibliography    297 

Glossary    329 

Index    333 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Bolivia,  1989    xxii 

2  Three  South  American  Viceroyalties,  ca.  1800    12 

3  Major  Bolivian  Territorial  Losses,  1867-1938    24 


x 


4  Topography  and  Drainage    54 

5  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1989    60 

6  Major  Ethnolinguistic  Groups,  1988    64 

7  Population  Density,  1985    88 

8  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  FY  1987    114 

9  Primary  Petroleum,  Natural  Gas,  and  Minerals 

Activities,  1988    130 

10  Transportation  System,  1988    146 

11  Governmental  System,  1989    170 

12  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1989    232 

13  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    242 

14  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    244 

15  Organization  of  the  Police  Forces,  1989    250 

16  Principal  Coca-Growing  Regions,  1985    260 


xi 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  examine  objec- 
tively and  concisely  the  dominant  historical,  social,  economic,  po- 
litical, and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Bolivia.  Sources  of 
information  included  scholarly  books,  journals,  monographs,  official 
reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations,  numer- 
ous periodicals,  and  interviews  with  individuals  having  special  com- 
petence in  Bolivian  affairs.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the 
end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  sources  recommended  for  fur- 
ther reading  appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are 
given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist 
readers  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 ,  Appen- 
dix). A  glossary  is  also  included. 

Although  there  are  numerous  variations,  Spanish  surnames 
generally  are  composed  of  both  the  father's  and  the  mother's  family 
names,  in  that  order.  In  the  instance  of  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro,  for 
example,  Paz  is  his  patronymic,  and  Estenssoro  is  his  mother's 
maiden  name.  In  informal  use,  the  matronymic  is  often  dropped, 
a  practice  that  has  usually  been  followed  in  this  book  except  in  cases 
where  the  individual  is  usually  referred  to  by  his  double  surname 
or  could  easily  be  confused  with  a  relative.  For  example,  to  avoid 
confusing  Paz  Estenssoro  with  Jaime  Paz  Zamora,  both  their  patro- 
nymics and  matronymics  are  used. 


Xlll 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Bolivia  (Republica  de  Bolivia). 

Short  Name:  Bolivia. 

Term  for  Citizens:  Bolivian(s). 

Capital:  La  Paz  (seat  of  government);  Sucre  (legal  capital  and  seat 
of  judiciary). 

Geography 

Size:  1,098,581  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Landlocked.  Land  is  20  percent  arid  or  desert,  40 
percent  rain  forest,  25  percent  pasture  and  meadow,  2  percent 
arable,  2  percent  inland  water,  and  11  percent  other,  including 


xv 


negligible  percentage  irrigated.  Divided  by  two  parallel  Andean 
ranges  or  Cordilleras,  on  roughly  north-south  axis,  into  three  dis- 
tinct ecozones:  vast  arid  Altiplano  plateau  between  western  range 
(Cordillera  Occidental)  and  eastern  range  (Cordillera  Occidental), 
with  Lake  Titicaca  on  northern  end;  semitropical  Yungas  and 
temperate  valleys  of  Cordillera  Oriental;  and  eastern  lowlands 
(Oriente),  including  semiarid  Chaco  region. 

Climate:  Tropical  with  heavy  rainfall  in  northern  lowlands  to  tem- 
perate in  highland  valleys  and  harsh,  chilly  conditions  on  wind- 
swept Altiplano,  where  daily  temperatures  fluctuate  sharply. 
Uninhabited  areas  over  5,500  meters  high  have  arctic  climate. 

Society 

Population:  Estimated  6.6  million  in  mid- 1989  with  2.1  percent 
growth  rate;  projected  annual  growth  rate  of  up  to  2.6  percent  to 
year  2000. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Compulsory  attendance  between  ages 
seven  and  fourteen  followed  by  three  years  of  intermediate  school. 
Four-year  secondary  education  consisted  of  two-year  general  pro- 
gram followed  by  two-year  specialized  program.  Higher  educa- 
tion consisted  of  University  of  Bolivia  and  variety  of  public  and 
private  institutes.  Estimated  75  percent  literacy  rate  in  mid- 
1980s. 

Health:  In  mid-1980s  Bolivia  continued  to  record  some  of  worst 
health  indicators  in  Western  Hemisphere.  Life  expectancy  in  1989 
fifty-two  years  for  males  and  fifty-six  years  for  females.  Infant  mor- 
tality 124.4  per  1,000  live  births.  Nutritional  deficiencies  affected 
70  percent  of  population.  Potable  water  inaccessible  to  57  percent; 
adequate  sanitary  facilities  unavailable  to  76  percent. 

Religion:  Ninety- five  percent  Roman  Catholic,  but  many  only 
nominal  adherents.  Active  Protestant  minority,  especially  Evan- 
gelical Methodists.  In  1980s  Mormons,  Jehovah's  Witnesses, 
Seventh-Day  Adventists,  and  various  Pentecostal  denominations 
gained  increasing  adherents.  Other  denominations  included  Men- 
nonites  and  Bahai  faith  and  small  Jewish  community. 

Language:  Spanish,  Quechua,  and  Aymara  (all  official). 

Ethnic  Groups:  Quechua,  30  percent;  Aymara,  25  percent;  mixed, 
25  to  30  percent;  and  whites  (blancos),  5  to  15  percent.  Lowland 
Indians,  numbering  about  100,000  in  early  1980s,  divided  into  nine 
major  linguistic  groups  and  nearly  thirty  subgroups. 


xvi 


Economy 


Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$4.35  billion  in  1987,  or 
roughly  US$640  per  capita.  After  growing  unprecedented  5.5  per- 
cent per  year  in  1970s,  economy  ravaged  by  recessionary  and 
hyperinflationary  spiral  peaking  in  1985.  Economy  grew  2  to  3  per- 
cent per  year  in  second  half  of  1980s.  Unemployment  averaged 
under  6  percent  during  1970s  but  reached  more  than  20  percent 
by  1987. 

Agriculture:  Second  most  agricultural  country  in  South  America, 
with  60  percent  of  farmers  in  highlands  and  20  percent  in  relatively 
fertile  valleys.  Accounted  for  23  percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Employed 
about  half  (46  percent)  of  official  labor  force  estimated  at  1.6  mil- 
lion in  1986.  Accounted  for  only  15  percent  of  total  exports  in  late 
1980s.  Farming  technology  primitive.  Underground  economy — 
based  on  contraband,  coca  production,  and  other  commercial  trad- 
ing in  informal  sector — employed  two-thirds  of  Bolivia's  workers. 

Industry:  Employed  20  percent  of  work  force  in  late  1980s.  Silver 
and  tin  traditionally  dominant  mining  industries,  but  mining  sec- 
tor declined  after  tin  market  collapse  in  1985.  In  1987  mining  sec- 
tor accounted  for  only  4  percent  of  GDP,  36  percent  of  exports, 
2.5  percent  of  government  revenues,  and  2  percent  of  labor  force. 
Coca/cocaine  industry  rivaled  total  legal  exports  but  fueled  infla- 
tion. Manufacturing  sector  played  minor  role  (10  percent  of  GDP 
in  1987)  in  economy  and  consisted  mainly  of  agriculture,  hydro- 
carbons, and  mining.  Construction  slowed  in  late  1980s  to  3  per- 
cent of  GDP. 

Energy:  Hydrocarbons,  particularly  natural  gas,  leading  export 
and  constituted  critically  important  sector  of  economy  in  late  1980s. 
Substantial  hydroelectric  potential.  Relatively  low  level  of  domes- 
tic energy  consumption,  destined  for  residential  or  commercial  use 
(46  percent),  followed  by  transportation  (31  percent),  industry  (20 
percent),  and  mining  (3  percent). 

Services:  Employed  34  percent  of  work  force  in  late  1980s.  Sector 
included  banking  and  other  financial  services,  transportation,  com- 
munications, and  tourism.  Despite  small  numbers  and  shaky  finan- 
cial status,  commercial  banks  remained  core  of  private  financial 
sector  in  1988,  with  US$357  million  in  assets. 

Exchange  Rate:  Boliviano  replaced  Bolivian  peso  as  official  cur- 
rency January  1,  1987.  After  floating  against  United  States  dol- 
lar, boliviano  stabilized  at  B2.3  =  US$1  by  1988;  difference  between 
official  and  black-market  rates  did  not  exceed  1  percent. 


xvn 


Imports:  Officially,  over  US$777  million  in  1987;  unofficially,  over 
US$1  billion,  taking  into  account  contraband  imports.  Most  im- 
ports from  Brazil  in  1980s.  In  1987  nearly  42  percent  of  total  im- 
ports capital  goods;  40  percent,  raw  materials  and  intermediate 
goods;  16  percent,  consumer  goods. 

Exports:  Official  exports  in  1987  totaled  US$569  million,  lowest 
level  of  1980s,  a  period  of  declining  terms  of  trade.  Export  com- 
petitiveness increased  after  1985,  when  all  export  taxes  were 
abolished  and  floating  exchange  rate  was  adopted.  Coca-related 
exports  often  equaled  or  exceeded  legal  exports  in  1980s,  generat- 
ing from  US$600  million  to  US$1  billion  annually,  although 
estimated  1988  cocaine  revenues  fell  below  US$300  million. 
Hydrocarbons  became  leading  export  in  1980s,  accounting  for  1 1 
percent  of  GDP  and  over  50  percent  of  government  revenues  in 
1985.  Natural  gas  replaced  tin  and  other  minerals  as  leading  ex- 
port, growing  from  21  to  44  percent  of  exports  in  1980-87;  most 
went  to  Argentina  and  Brazil.  Tin  declined  to  just  over  12  percent 
by  1987.  Timber  exports,  mainly  to  Brazil,  surpassed  all  other  legal 
agricultural  exports  in  1987  and  totaled  US$31  million. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Experienced  persistent  deficits  during  1980s, 
averaging  10  percent  of  GDP  in  first  half  of  1980s.  Public  sector 
deficit  dropped  from  28  percent  of  GDP  in  1984  to  3.8  percent 
in  1986.  Total  external  debt  of  US$4.6  billion  in  1986  slightly  ex- 
ceeded GDP.  Deficit  in  1987  nearly  US$500  million  (10.5  percent 
of  GDP),  when  public  sector  expenditures  equaled  about  30  per- 
cent of  GDP.  Deficits  fell  to  6  percent  in  1988.  Gross  reserves  at 
end  of  1988  totaled  nearly  US$405  million  and  net  reserves  about 
US$181  million.  Gold  reserves  totaled  US$300  million. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  President  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro's  New  Economic 
Policy  (Nueva  Politica  Economica — NPE),  imposed  in  1985,  elimi- 
nated hyperinflation  and  reduced  inflation  to  near  zero,  rising  to  15 
percent  per  year  in  late  1980s.  Drastic  NPE  reforms  froze  spending 
by  all  state-owned  enterprises,  eliminated  subsidies,  lifted  price  con- 
trols, lowered  import  tariffs  by  introducing  unified  20  percent  duty, 
raised  oil  prices,  undertook  aggressive  tax  collection,  radically  re- 
structured largest  and  most  costly  state-owned  mining  and  oil-drilling 
companies,  and  dismantled  Bolivian  Development  Corporation. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Ports:  No  direct  outlet  to  international  ports  since  1879.  Employed 
ports  and  warehousing  facilities  at  Arica  and  Antofagasta,  Chile; 


xviii 


Matarani  and  Ilo,  Peru;  and  Santos,  Brazil.  Also  used  free  port 
facilities  in  Rosario,  Argentina;  Nueva  Palmira,  Uruguay;  and 
Belem,  Brazil. 

Railroads:  Most  important  transport  system  for  external  trade  (ex- 
cluding pipelines).  System  consisted  of  over  3,700  kilometers  of 
rail  and  carried  more  than  535  million  tons  of  freight  and  2.4  mil- 
lion passengers  a  year. 

Roads:  Only  3  percent  of  the  41,000  kilometers  of  roads  paved; 
81  percent  dirt  and  16  percent  gravel.  Road  maintenance  haphaz- 
ard and  substandard.  At  least  110,000  vehicles  registered  in  late 
1980s. 

Airports:  Official  airports  numbered  thirty- two  (only  six  paved). 
La  Paz  and  Santa  Cruz  each  had  international  airport.  Unofficial 
airstrips  numbered  800,  many  in  lowlands  used  for  narcotics 
trafficking. 

Waterways:  About  14,000  kilometers  of  waterways  in  four  main 
systems — Beni,  Pilcomayo,  Titicaca-Desaguadero,  and  Mamore — 
open  to  navigation  by  light-draught  vessels. 

Communications:  In  1988  population  had  some  3.5  million  radios, 
access  to  over  125  mostiy  privately  owned  radio  stations,  650,000 
television  sets,  six  main  daily  newspapers,  and  only  65,000 
telephones. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Executive  power  vested  in  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, elected  to  four-year  term  either  by  majority  popular  vote  or, 
in  absence  of  majority  winner,  by  National  Congress  (hereafter, 
Congress),  which  selects  one  of  top  three  candidates.  Reelection 
of  incumbent  not  permitted  until  four  years  have  elapsed.  Presi- 
dent heads  Council  of  Ministers  (representing  sixteen  ministries) 
and  various  other  councils.  Legislative  power  resides  in  bicameral 
Congress,  consisting  of  Chamber  of  Deputies  and  Senate.  Con- 
gress major  actor  in  national  politics,  passing  or  modifying  legis- 
lation and  approving  president's  annual  budget,  economic  policy, 
government  loans,  and  treaties  and  other  international  agreements. 
Needs  two- thirds  vote  to  override  presidential  veto.  Convenes  an- 
nually on  August  6  in  La  Paz. 

Politics:  Jaime  Paz  Zamora,  leader  of  social  democratic-oriented 
Movement  of  the  Revolutionary  Left  (Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda 
Revolucionaria — MIR)  and  third-place  runner-up  in  May  1989 


xix 


popular  elections,  assumed  presidency  August  6,  1989,  after  being 
selected  by  Congress.  Prior  to  nomination,  Paz  Zamora  allied  with 
former  president  and  second-place  runner-up  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez 
and  his  Nationalist  Democratic  Action  (Accion  Democratica 
Nacionalista — ADN)  party,  whereby  Banzer' s  party  was  given  vice 
presidency  and  half  the  cabinet  positions.  Paz  Zamora  succeeded 
his  uncle,  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro,  a  founder  of  the  Nationalist  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario — 
MNR).  Despite  leftist  reputation,  Paz  Zamora  vowed  to  continue 
predecessor's  antinarcotics  efforts  and  successful  economic  reform 
policy. 

International  Relations:  Long  history  of  territorial  losses  to  neigh- 
boring nations.  Relations  with  United  States  have  fluctuated  since 
1950s.  Some  sectors  condemned  United  States  support  for  rightist 
military  regimes  in  1960s  and  1970s.  United  States  human  rights 
emphasis  in  late  1970s  and  nonrecognition  of  Bolivia's  right-wing 
military  regimes  in  early  1 980s  established  new  pattern  in  bilateral 
relations.  Bolivian-United  States  relations  cordial  during  third  Paz 
Estenssoro  administration  (1985-89).  In  1989  relations  with  Argen- 
tina somewhat  strained,  owing  to  Argentinean  arrears  on  natural 
gas  payments.  Relations  with  Brazil  improving  in  1989,  because 
of  joint  construction  agreements  and  antidrug-trafficking  measures. 
Relations  with  Chile  remained  contentious  in  1989,  owing  to  Chile's 
refusal  to  consider  Bolivia's  requests  to  negotiate  a  port  outlet. 

International  Agreements  and  Membership:  Party  to  Inter- 
American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  of  1947.  Member  of  Or- 
ganization of  American  States,  United  Nations  and  its  specialized 
agencies,  International  Monetary  Fund,  Inter- American  Develop- 
ment Bank,  Andean  Common  Market,  Amazonian  Pact,  Latin 
American  Integration  Association,  Latin  American  Economic  Sys- 
tem, Nonaligned  Movement,  and  International  Parliamentary 
Union. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Included  army  (20,200),  navy  (3,800),  and  air  force 
(4,000),  with  total  strength  estimated  at  28,000  in  1989.  Program 
launched  to  expand  troops  to  35,000. 

Military  Units:  Army  organized  into  ten  divisions  (consisting  of 
eight  cavalry  regiments,  twenty- two  infantry  battalions,  two 
mechanized  regiments,  one  motorized  infantry  regiment  with  two 
battalions,  three  ranger  battalions,  three  artillery  *  'regiments"  (bat- 
talions), five  artillery  batteries,  one  paratroop  battalion,  and  six 


xx 


engineer  battalions)  and  logistical  and  instructional  support  com- 
mands. Navy  consisted  of  small  motor  launches  operating  on  Lake 
Titicaca  and  northeastern  rivers  and  organized  into  five  naval  dis- 
tricts, each  with  one  flotilla,  as  well  as  one  naval  aviation  coun- 
terinsurgency  squadron.  Air  force  organized  into  three  air  brigades 
with  thirteen  subordinate  air  groups. 

Equipment:  Ground  forces  armaments  included  mosdy  obsolete 
United  States  equipment  but  also  Brazilian  armored  combat  vehi- 
cles and  personnel  carriers.  Naval  fleet  of  several  dozen  patrol  craft 
of  various  sizes.  Air  force  inventory  included  modest  number  of 
poorly  maintained  light  tactical  aircraft,  few  transport  aircraft  and 
helicopters,  and  several  dozen  trainers. 

Police:  Subordinate  to  Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration,  and  Justice. 
National  Police  Corps  had  estimated  15,000  personnel  and  con- 
sisted of  General  Administration  section,  5,000-member  para- 
military National  Guard,  Directorate  of  National  Investigations, 
Customs  Police,  Traffic  Police,  and  National  Highway  Service, 
as  well  as  Fire  Corps  staffed  by  police  personnel. 

Antinarcotics  Forces:  Created  in  1987,  Ministry  of  Interior,  Mi- 
gration, and  Justice's  Special  Antinarcotics  Force  (Fuerza  Espe- 
cial de  Lucha  Contra  el  Narcotrafico— FELCN)  evolved  in  1989 
into  viable  joint-service  institution.  Air  force's  Task  Force  pilots 
supporting  FELCN  flew  United  States-loaned  helicopters  nearly 
3,200  accident-free  hours,  and  pilot  proficiency  continued  to  im- 
prove. Bolivian  Navy  Riverine  Task  Force  remained  FELCN' s  least 
effective  element,  owing  to  corruption  and  command  and  opera- 
tional shortcomings.  The  640-member  Rural  Area  Police  Patrol 
Unit  (Unidad  Movil  Policial  para  Areas  Rurales — Umopar), 
FELCN' s  principal  interdiction  component,  continued  to  improve 
as  an  institution;  its  drug  seizures  increased.  Umopar  units,  sup- 
ported by  FELCN  helicopter  and  air  force  transport  aircraft  units, 
conducted  several  sophisticated  air  mobile  assaults  against  traffick- 
ing targets  in  second  half  of  1989.  Umopar' s  training  facility  in 
Chapare  region  continued  to  improve. 


xxi 


BRAZIL 


W 


\ 


?  PANDO 


—  12 


Cobija 

\ 


—  •   —  International  boundary 

—  —  Department  boundary 
®  National  capital 

•  Department  capital 

Sucre  is  the  legal  capital  and 
seat  of  the  judiciary. 

0    50   100   150  Kilometers 
I — 1 — H  h  . 


BENI 


f  La  Paz 


Lake 
Titicaca 


Trinidad  ^ 
( 

\ 


\ 


COCHABAMBA 


SANTA  CRUZ 


WL       _  /  -\Cochabamba^-  Santa  Cruz 
Oruro  •   l  """"  ^  \ 


ORURO 


A 


•  7  Sucre* 


r 


-20 


Pot  OS  I 


POTOSI     |  CHUQUISACA_ 


/ 


IN 

A 


PARAGUAY 


j 
) 


ARGENTINA 


V    Boundary  representation 
'  ■  hot  necessarily  authoritative. 

N  60 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Bolivia,  1989 


xxii 


Introduction 


BOLIVIA'S  WEALTH  OF  NATURAL  wonders,  colorful  Indian 
traditions,  and  enigmatic  ancient  ruins  make  it  one  of  the  world's 
most  unusual  countries.  The  "Tibet"  of  South  America,  Bolivia 
is  traversed  by  three  massive  Andean  ranges,  which  include  four 
of  the  world's  highest  eternally  snow-topped  mountains,  towering 
to  heights  up  to  6,550  meters  (Sajama).  Although  the  country  is 
landlocked,  it  has  Lake  Titicaca,  lying  half  in  Bolivia  and  half  in 
Peru,  the  world's  second  largest  inland  sea  and  highest  navigable 
lake  (3,810  meters  above  sea  level),  as  well  as  one  of  the  deepest 
(370  meters). 

Bolivia  is  a  land  of  sharp  contrasts  with  climatic  conditions  rang- 
ing from  arctic  to  tropical.  It  is  divided  into  three  distinct  ecozones: 
the  bleak,  windswept,  Tibetan-like  plateau  or  "high  plain"  called 
the  Altiplano  (3,600  meters  high)  separating  two  generally  parallel 
Andean  cordilleras;  the  intermediary  valley  region  (often  referred 
to  somewhat  loosely  by  travel  writers  as  the  yungas,  meaning  warm 
valleys),  which  consists  of  both  the  eastern  temperate  high  valleys 
and  the  only  valley  that  Bolivians  call  the  Yungas,  the  steep  semi- 
tropical  valley  northeast  of  the  city  of  La  Paz;  and  the  eastern  trop- 
ical flat  lowlands,  which  make  up  about  70  percent  of  the  country, 
including  part  of  the  vast,  semiarid  Chaco  region  in  the  south.  The 
first  two  of  these  ecozones  constitute  the  highlands. 

The  central  range,  or  Cordillera  Real,  forms  a  magnificent  snow- 
capped backdrop  for  La  Paz,  which  is  the  seat  of  government.  No 
other  major  city  in  the  world  can  boast  of  a  higher,  more  immense 
mountain  overlooking  it  than  La  Paz's  Illimani  (6,322  meters). 
Although  La  Paz  is  centered  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep,  bowl- shaped 
canyon  (protected  from  the  chilly  Altiplano  winds),  the  city  is  3,557 
meters  high,  whereas  rival  Santa  Cruz,  the  fastest-growing  large 
city  in  the  eastern  lowlands  and  Bolivia's  second-largest  city,  is  only 
416  meters  in  elevation. 

One  of  the  poorest  countries  in  South  America  in  the  late  1980s 
(per  capita  income  was  US$640  in  1987),  Bolivia  also  had  some 
of  the  lowest  health  and  other  social  indicators  in  Latin  America, 
but  it  did  not  suffer  from  one  common  Third  World  problem, 
namely,  overpopulation.  Although  larger  than  France  and  Spain 
combined,  Bolivia  had  only  about  7  percent  of  their  total  popula- 
tion (or  fewer  than  7  million  inhabitants),  one  of  the  lowest  popu- 
lation densities  in  the  Western  Hemisphere.  The  nation's  population 
had  more  than  doubled,  however,  since  1950,  and  its  distribution, 


xxin 


slightly  more  rural  than  urban,  was  highly  uneven,  with  most  of 
the  people  living  in  the  highlands.  The  urban  population  was  con- 
centrated in  only  six  main  highland  cities  and  Santa  Cruz.  (Bolivia's 
projected  population  of  nearly  10  million  in  2000  was  expected  to 
be  more  urban  than  rural.) 

With  55  percent  of  its  population  Indian,  Bolivia  has  the  propor- 
tionately highest  Indian  population  of  any  country  in  Latin  Amer- 
ica, although  Guatemala  and  Peru  both  have  larger  numbers  of 
Indian  inhabitants.  Nevertheless,  the  country  was  sharply  divided 
in  its  ethnic  composition,  languages,  and  modes  of  living  in  1989. 
The  two  principal  highland  Indian  groups,  the  Quechua  and 
Aymara,  constituted  30  percent  and  25  percent  of  the  population, 
respectively.  Cholos  or  mestizos  (those  of  mixed  blood)  made  up 
at  most  30  percent.  The  Quechua  and  the  Aymara  traditionally 
had  not  intermarried  and  had  always  kept  their  languages,  physi- 
cal characteristics,  and  many  social  traditions  distinct,  thereby  add- 
ing to  the  country's  deep  regional  and  social  cleavages.  (In  addition, 
very  few  of  either  group  ever  learned  Spanish.)  The  two  groups 
also  inhabited  different  areas:  the  Aymara  lived  mainly  in  the  north- 
ern part  of  the  Altiplano  and  Yungas,  and  the  Quechua  lived  in 
the  two  north-south  mountain  ranges  east  of  the  Altiplano  and  in 
the  temperate  valleys.  Whites  (mostly  descendants  of  Spaniards) 
constituted  less  than  15  percent  of  the  population.  Although  they 
inhabited  the  same  cities,  the  whites  had  little  in  common  with  the 
Indians. 

The  Quechua,  once  part  of  the  great  Inca  Empire  (Tawantin- 
suyu)  centered  in  Cuzco  (Cusco)  in  present-day  Peru,  were  valley 
people  in  pre-Incan  times  who  adopted  the  language  of  the  con- 
quering Incas.  The  origins  of  the  Aymara  have  remained  some- 
what obscure.  The  Aymara  and  the  few  surviving  members  of  the 
Puquina- speaking  Uru  and  Chipaya  tribes,  which  the  Aymara  once 
oppressed,  still  ply  Lake  Titicaca  in  totora  reed  boats,  as  they  have 
for  almost  a  millennium.  Archaeologists  generally  have  held  that 
the  Aymara  emerged  as  a  distinct  group  about  A.D.  1 100  and  that 
their  ancestors  were  part  of  the  great  Aymara- speaking  Tiwanakan 
Empire  (or  possibly  only  the  Kolla  Indians,  who  constituted  its  work 
force)  that  was  centered  at  Tiwanaku  (Tiahuanaco)  at  the  southern 
end  of  Lake  Titicaca. 

Bolivia's  largely  unknown  Tiwanakan  prehistory  is  as  alien  as 
the  Altiplano 's  topography.  The  origins  of  the  Tiwanakans  and 
their  sudden  disappearance  have  remained  shrouded  in  mys- 
tery, myth,  and  controversy.  Early  Spanish  chroniclers  found  that 
the  Aymara  lacked  an  ancestral  memory  or  written  record  of  the 
Tiwanakans.  The  Tiwanakans  appeared  as  an  already  robust  culture 


xxiv 


in  at  least  600  B.C.  (although  some  archaeologists  date  them  back 
to  around  1500  B.C.)  and  developed  through  at  least  five  distinct 
stages  over  nearly  two  millennia,  until  becoming  a  lost  civilization 
around  A.D.  1200.  During  the  culture's  final  centuries,  when  it 
flourished,  its  religious  influence  extended  throughout  the  Pacific 
Andean  region  as  far  north  as  Ecuador.  According  to  archaeolo- 
gists, much  of  the  later  Quechua- speaking  Incan  civilization  was 
based  on  inherited  Tiwanakan  culture  and  technology. 

Tiwanaku  was  the  sun- worshiping  empire's  lofty  ceremonial  and 
administrative  center,  located  on  what  was  then  an  island  in  Lake 
Titicaca.  Over  the  centuries,  the  lake  has  receded,  leaving  the  ruins 
some  twenty  kilometers  from  its  shore  (the  ruins  of  at  least  one 
other  ancient  city  have  been  discovered  submerged).  Tiwanaku 
occupied  an  area  of  almost  six  square  kilometers  and  had  a  popu- 
lation ranging  from  20,000  to  100,000.  The  site,  although  still  only 
partially  excavated,  contains  some  of  the  most  impressive  prehistoric 
ruins  in  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Its  immense,  open- sky  stone  edi- 
fices, such  as  the  temple  of  Akapana  and  Palace  of  the  Sarcophagi, 
are  constructed  on  enormous  foundations  and  contain  polished 
walls.  Pyramidal  temples  include  the  Sun  Temple  of  Kalasasaya 
with  its  striking  Calendar  Gate,  or  Gateway  of  the  Sun  (Puerta 
del  Sol),  and  another  estimated  to  have  been  as  large  as  Egypt's 
Great  Pyramid.  The  walls  of  these  once  brightly  painted  temples 
were  adorned  with  gold-covered  sculptured  bas-reliefs.  Over  the 
centuries  since  the  Spaniards  arrived  and  began  to  systematically 
destroy  the  site,  using  it  as  a  quarry,  the  ruins  have  been  vandal- 
ized to  such  an  extent  that  only  the  heaviest  megalithic  vestiges 
remain. 

The  Tiwanakan  culture  was  as  advanced  in  many  respects  as 
that  of  the  ancient  Egyptians.  The  Tiwanakans  built  an  extensive 
system  of  roads,  terraced  mountain  slopes,  and  huge  raised  ter- 
races surrounded  by  deep,  stone-block  irrigation  canals  that  made 
what  is  today  a  barren,  dry  region  into  fertile  agricultural  land  for 
growing  highly  nutritious  crops,  such  as  a  grain  called  quinoa  (their 
sacred  " mother  grain").  Their  buildings  contained  carved  stone 
pipes  for  plumbing  and  were  constructed  of  geometrically  cut  stone 
blocks  linked  with  copper  pins  and  clamps  so  tightly  that  mortar 
was  unnecessary.  The  Tiwanakans  used  timber-built  vessels  to  ferry 
andesite  stone  slabs  weighing  more  than  sixty  tons  forty-eight 
kilometers  across  the  lake  from  quarries  at  the  extinct  volcano 
Kayappia,  measured  and  cut  them  meticulously,  and  ground  and 
burnished  them  smooth.  Thousands  of  workers  transported  red 
sandstone  blocks  weighing  up  to  160  tons  from  a  quarry  ten  kilo- 
meters away  by  dragging  them  along  an  embankment  covered  with 


xxv 


wet  clay.  Tiwanakan  sculptors  adorned  their  large  pillar-like  statues 
of  the  Sun  God  (Kon-Tiki  Viracocha)  and  priest-kings  and  other 
slabs  with  an  elaborately  developed,  but  as  yet  undeciphered, 
iconography.  Artisans  created  exquisite  golden  ornaments  and  cer- 
amics, the  latter  containing  brilliant  colors  and  sculptured  figures. 

Investigators  have  postulated  various  theories  to  explain  the  mys- 
terious disappearance  of  the  Tiwanakan  civilization.  Some  authors 
have  speculated  that  the  Aymara- speaking,  warlike  Kollas  liquidated 
the  Tiwanakans.  Incan  legend  also  spoke  of  a  tribe  from  the 
Coquimbo  Valley  in  Peru  that  attacked  and  massacred  the  bearded 
white  men  in  a  battle  on  an  island  in  Lake  Titicaca;  only  Kon- 
Tiki  and  a  few  others  escaped  and  fled  west.  Some  scientists  have 
hypothesized  that  a  dramatic  drop  in  the  water  level  of  Lake  Titicaca 
could  have  debilitated  the  Tiwanakans  and  made  them  vulnerable 
to  attack  by  hostile  tribes.  Archaeologist  Alan  L.  Kolata  has  de- 
termined that  Tiwanaku's  irrigation  fields  were  no  longer  func- 
tional by  A.D.  1000,  possibly  as  a  result  of  a  severe  drought  lasting 
for  decades.  In  any  event,  there  seems  to  be  general  agreement 
that  the  scattered  megalithic  remnants  of  uncompleted  projects  pro- 
vide evidence  that  Tiwanakan  life  came  to  an  abrupt  end.  From 
1200  to  1438,  the  Kollas  assimilated  the  peoples  who  had  lived  under 
the  Tiwanakan  Empire.  Thus,  the  Kollas  are  presumed  to  have 
inherited  elements  of  the  vanished  culture,  such  as  some  stone- 
building  skills,  but  not  the  more  advanced  aspects  of  the  civilization. 

The  Incas  of  Peru  emerged  shortly  after  the  collapse  of  the 
Tiwanakans  and  reached  an  equally  advanced  level  of  civilization 
during  their  relatively  brief  history  of  several  hundred  years.  Incan 
legends  also  gave  accounts  of  bearded  white  men  who  came  from 
the  shores  of  Lake  Titicaca  and  brought  them  civilization  and  then 
went  to  the  Pacific  Coast  and  disappeared  overseas.  The  Incas  wor- 
shiped the  sun  and  built  sun  temples  on  the  Island  of  the  Sun  in 
Lake  Titicaca.  Architectural  similarities  with  Tiwanakan  culture 
included  the  trapezoidal  shapes  of  doors  and  window  openings  and 
the  masterfully  cut  and  interlocked  walls  of  large  stone  blocks. 

In  the  late  fifteenth  century,  the  Incas,  after  meeting  stubborn 
resistance,  finally  brought  the  Kollas  under  their  control.  Accord- 
ing to  legend,  the  Incas  were  awed  by  the  then  still  magnificent 
ruins  of  Tiwanaku,  which  they  found  occupied  by  the  Aymara. 
Nevertheless,  the  Incas  kept  their  distance  from  the  site  as  if  it  were 
taboo.  They  imposed  only  their  religion  on  the  Aymara  and  al- 
lowed them  to  keep  their  social  traditions  and  language.  The  rela- 
tively brief  Incan  culture  in  Kollasuyo  (present-day  Bolivia) 
produced  beautiful  ceramics  and  brightly  colored  rectangular  pack 


xxvi 


cloths  (ahuayos),  styles  that  still  characterize  the  work  of  the  Quechua 
and  Aymara.  Incan  outposts  extended  to  the  fringes  of  the  eastern 
escarpment  (east  of  Cochabamba),  as  evidenced  by  the  important 
ruins  of  Incallacta  and  possibly  Samaipata,  although  whether  the 
latter,  a  colossal  fortress  carved  out  of  solid  rock  on  a  mountain- 
top,  is  actually  Incan  or  Tiwanakan  has  been  disputed. 

When  Francisco  Pizarro  arrived  in  Tumbes  (in  present-day  Peru) 
in  1532,  the  Incas  thought  he  was  Viracocha  Inca  returning.  After 
conquering  the  Incas,  the  conquistadors  systematically  destroyed 
the  Incan  and  other  "backward"  Indian  cultures,  including  most 
of  an  estimated  seventy  species  of  exotic  Incan  crops,  such  as  quinoa, 
that  are  only  now  being  rediscovered  and  reintroduced  around  the 
world.  For  almost  three  centuries,  the  Spaniards  exploited  the  rich 
silver  mines  of  what  they  called  Upper  (Alto)  Peru  or  Charcas 
(present-day  Bolivia).  They  subjected  the  mainly  Aymara  Indians 
on  the  Altiplano  and  the  Quechua  Indians  in  the  temperate  val- 
leys to  a  system  of  feudal  peonage  in  the  mines  and  textile  mills 
(obrajes)  and  on  the  haciendas,  denying  them  even  the  right  to  learn 
to  read  and  write  their  own  languages. 

Imported  African  slaves  died  off  so  rapidly  doing  the  strenuous 
high-altitude  mining  work  and  the  Indians  feared  them  so  much 
that  they  were  used  mainly  for  domestic  work  in  the  silver-mining 
city  of  Potosi,  for  many  years  the  richest  and  largest  city  in  the 
Americas  (160,000  residents  in  1660).  African  slaves,  however,  be- 
came an  Aymara- speaking  subculture  in  the  Yungas,  which  they 
colonized  for  coca  cultivation.  Chewing  coca  leaves  (supposedly 
the  exclusive  right  of  the  Incan  elite  in  pre-Columbian  times)  ena- 
bled the  Aymara  to  cope  with  the  hardships  of  mining  by  numb- 
ing their  senses  to  the  cold  and  deadening  their  appetites. 

After  becoming  an  independent  republic  in  1825  under  the 
presidency  of  its  liberator  and  namesake,  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios, 
Bolivia  proved  difficult  to  govern  and  hold  together;  its  heterogene- 
ous, illiterate  population  lacked  any  sense  of  national  self-identity 
or  patriotism.  Regional  rivalries  that  antedated  independence  re- 
mained rife.  Because  the  Indians  remained  culturally  and  physi- 
cally isolated  and  illiterate,  most  of  them  probably  were  unaware 
that  they  lived  in  a  country  called  Bolivia  until  well  into  the  twen- 
tieth century.  The  distinctive  heritage  of  architecture,  painting, 
and  sculpture  left  by  the  Spaniards  was  of  little  use  to  the  Indian 
masses,  whose  daily  life  was  a  struggle  to  survive.  Furthermore, 
Bolivia  was  2.2  million  square  kilometers,  or  more  than  twice  its 
present  size.  During  its  first  110  years,  the  nation  lost  approximately 
half  of  its  territory  in  wars  and  controversial  bilateral  deals.  The 
most  traumatic  loss  resulted  from  the  War  of  the  Pacific  (1879-83), 


xxvn 


in  which  Chile  seized  Bolivia's  seacoast  and  rich  nitrate  fields  in 
the  Atacama  Desert. 

Bolivia  has  suffered  from  the  rule  of  numerous  despotic  and  in- 
competent caudillos  during  its  history  as  an  independent  nation. 
None  was  crueler  and  more  depraved  and  ignorant  than  General 
Mariano  Melgarejo  Valencia  (1864-71),  whose  many  victims  in- 
cluded the  conspiratorial  General  Manuel  Isidoro  Belzu  Humerez 
(1848-55),  murdered  on  being  received  in  the  presidential  office 
after  returning  from  exile.  Melgarejo,  a  mining  baron,  squandered 
the  country's  treasury  on  his  mistress,  ceded  an  immense  rubber- 
farming  territory  to  Brazil  in  exchange  for  the  right  to  use  the 
Amazon  River  as  a  waterway,  and  initiated  the  government's  sei- 
zure and  sale  of  Indian  communal  lands.  Belzu 's  frequently  quoted 
valedictory,  however,  that  "Bolivia  is  totally  incapable  of  being 
governed,"  created  an  enduring  stereotype.  In  Belzu's  era,  more- 
over, Bolivia's  caudillos  were  so  busy  fighting  for  power  among 
themselves  that  they  had  little  time  or  energy  left  to  govern  the 
country  effectively. 

A  number  of  exceptional  leaders  also  have  governed  from  the 
Palacio  Quemado,  or  Burnt  Palace  (the  unofficial  name  given  the 
rebuilt  Palace  of  Government  after  it  was  burned  by  a  mob  in  1875). 
In  1983  the  La  Paz  newspaper  Ultima  Hora  polled  thirty-nine  promi- 
nent Bolivians  in  various  professions  on  which  seven  presidents  they 
considered  "most  significant."  The  final  list  (in  chronological  order) 
consisted  mostly  of  historical  figures:  General  Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre 
Alcala  (1825-28),  General  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz  y  Calahumana 
(1829-39),  Belzu,  Melgarejo  (who  received  a  record  fifteen  nega- 
tive votes,  as  well  as  two  positive  ones),  Aniceto  Arce  Ruiz 
(1888-92),  Ismael  Montes  Gamboa  (1904-09  and  1913-17),  and 
Victor  Paz  Estenssoro  (1952-56,  1960-64,  and  1985-89).  Those 
garnering  the  most  favorable  votes  were  Santa  Cruz  and  Paz  Estens- 
soro (thirty- three  and  thirty-two,  respectively).  The  next  highest- 
rated  president,  Belzu,  curiously  garnered  twenty-one  favorable 
ballots  and  no  negative  ones,  despite  having  ruled  Bolivia  with  a 
reign  of  terror. 

Other  well-regarded  nineteenth-century  leaders  included  Jose 
Maria  Linares  Lizarazu  (1857-61)  and  General  Jose  Ballivian  y 
Segurola  (1841-47).  Linares  had  widespread  support  when  he  seized 
power  as  the  first  civilian  president  but  lost  it  as  he  became  dic- 
tatorial. Ballivian,  although  widely  popular,  resigned  after  tiring 
of  putting  down  insurrections.  His  urbane  and  European-educated 
son,  Adolfo  Ballivian  (1873-74),  seemed  to  have  the  potential  of 
becoming  an  outstanding  president  and  probably  would  have 
changed  Bolivia's  involvement  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific  had  a  mortal 


xxvin 


illness  not  forced  him  to  resign  suddenly.  Elected  to  the  office  (un- 
like his  father),  Adolfo  Ballivian  briefly  restored  honesty,  tolerance, 
and  liberty  to  government. 

During  the  period  of  Conservative  Party  rule  (1880-99),  silver- 
mining  magnates,  such  as  Gregorio  Pacheco  Leyes  (1884-88)  and 
Arce  Ruiz,  followed  the  precedent  set  by  Melgarejo  of  occupying 
the  presidency,  but  did  so  legally.  During  the  relatively  stable  Lib- 
eral Party  era  (1899-1920),  when  the  tin  industry  boomed,  the  three 
tin-mining  moguls — Simon  I.  Patino,  a  Bolivian  cholo  who  became 
one  of  the  world's  richest  men;  Carlos  Aramayo,  a  Bolivian;  and 
Mauricio  Hochschild,  an  Austrian-born  Argentine — intervened  in 
politics  more  indirectly  by  employing  politicians  and  lawyers  {la 
rosea — see  Glossary)  to  represent  the  oligarchy's  interests.  The  min- 
ing and  landowning  elite  kept  the  mine  laborers  and  landless  peasant 
migrants  in  a  system  of  neofeudal  peonage  called  pongaje  and  in- 
tensified the  despoilment  of  the  Indian  communities  of  their  an- 
cestral land. 

The  disastrous  war  with  Paraguay,  the  Chaco  War  (1932-35), 
cost  Bolivia  65,000  lives,  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars,  and  most 
of  its  vast  Chaco  territory.  Although  the  Chaco  was  nearly  unin- 
habitable, it  was  of  strategic  importance  as  Bolivia's  only  access 
to  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  by  way  of  the  Paraguay  River.  By  discredit- 
ing the  traditional  oligarchy  because  of  its  inept  civilian  and  mili- 
tary leadership,  the  Chaco  War  served  as  a  turning  point  in  Bolivia's 
military,  political,  and  cultural  life.  It  opened  the  way  for  a  series 
of  coups  by  reformist  military  officers,  none  of  whom  fared  well 
in  office,  the  creation  of  new  political  groups,  and  political  acti- 
vism by  the  Indians.  The  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement 
(Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario — MNR)  emerged  as 
Bolivia's  first  party  of  the  masses. 

Economic  decline  and  social  unrest  during  the  post-World  War 
II  years  came  to  a  head  in  the  form  of  the  1952  Revolution  led 
by  the  MNR's  Paz  Estenssoro  and  Hernan  Siles  Zuazo  (1956-60 
and  1982-85).  One  of  Latin  America's  three  most  significant  agrar- 
ian revolutions  of  the  century  and  the  least  violent  of  the  three, 
it  was  aimed  at  the  6  percent  of  the  landowners  who  fully  controlled 
92  percent  of  all  cultivated  land  in  the  republic.  In  addition  to  sweep- 
ing land  reform  measures,  including  an  end  to  the  pongaje  system, 
it  returned  to  the  Indians  most  of  the  land  on  the  Altiplano  taken 
from  them  in  the  past.  The  1952  Revolution  also  resulted  in  civilian 
government,  universal  suffrage,  and  primary  education  in  rural 
areas.  It  thus  increased  identification  by  the  Indian  peasants  (cam- 
pesinos)  with  the  national  society  rather  than  simply  their  isolated 
village  or  hacienda.  Moreover,  the  1952  Revolution  destroyed  the 


xxix 


mining  interests  by  nationalizing  the  tin  mines  and  creating  the 
Mining  Corporation  of  Bolivia  (Corporation  Minera  de  Bolivia — 
Comibol)  and  Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Central  Obrera 
Boliviana — COB).  After  the  first  years,  however,  the  1952  Revo- 
lution, dubbed  by  political  scientist  James  M.  Malloy  as  the  "un- 
completed Revolution,"  lost  its  momentum;  land  reform  in  the 
highlands  soon  stagnated,  and  a  new  elite  emerged. 

In  1964  the  military,  having  been  rebuilt  by  the  MNR  govern- 
ment with  United  States  assistance,  reverted  to  its  old  ways  of  stag- 
ing coups  and  remained  in  power  for  most  of  the  next  eighteen 
years.  During  that  period,  ten  military  dictators  held  office,  and 
some  relied  heavily  on  the  army  to  suppress  labor  protests  by  miners 
and  peasants.  In  October  1967,  the  army  defeated  an  ill-fated  at- 
tempt by  Cuba's  Ernesto  '  'Che"  Guevara  to  start  a  Cuban-style 
revolution  in  the  politically  apathetic  Bolivian  countryside.  The 
news  that  the  charismatic  Cuban  revolutionary  hero,  who  had  not 
been  seen  in  public  for  two  years,  was  leading  an  insurgency  in 
Bolivia  received  worldwide  publicity;  his  capture  and  summary  ex- 
ecution earned  Bolivia  the  enmity  of  the  international  left  (the  mili- 
tary officer  in  charge  of  the  counterinsurgency  operation  was  later 
assassinated  in  Paris). 

In  1979-80  the  country  enjoyed  a  brief  respite  from  military  rule 
under  Lidia  Gueiler  Tejada,  the  country's  first  woman  president, 
whom  the  National  Congress  (hereafter,  Congress)  appointed  for 
a  one-year  mandate.  Siles  Zuazo,  leader  of  the  Nationalist  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  of  the  Left  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolu- 
cionario  de  Izquierda — MNRI),  who  had  been  democratically 
elected  in  1980,  was  supposed  to  succeed  Gueiler,  but  General  Luis 
Garcia  Meza  Tejada  (1980-81)  staged  a  bloody  military  coup  in 
July  1980. 

Garcia  Meza  seized  power  with  the  help  of  cocaine  traffickers 
and  European  mercenaries  recruited  by  Klaus  Barbie,  longtime 
resident  and  former  Gestapo  chief  in  Lyons.  As  Garcia  Meza's  in- 
ternal security  adviser,  Barbie  gave  his  paramilitary  unit,  The 
Newlyweds  of  Death  (Los  Novios  de  la  Muerte),  free  rein  to  prac- 
tice neo-Nazi  tactics  of  arbitrary  arrests,  torture,  and  disappear- 
ances. The  regime's  brutal  repression  and  deep  involvement  in 
cocaine  trafficking  isolated  the  country  internationally  and  dis- 
credited and  demoralized  the  Bolivian  military,  compelling  it  to 
oust  Garcia  Meza  and  allow  a  transition  to  democracy. 

The  optimism  engendered  by  the  return  to  civilian  rule  under 
Siles  Zuazo  soon  turned  to  widespread  discontent  and  nation- 
wide strikes  called  by  the  COB  because  the  virtually  bankrupt  Siles 
Zuazo  government  failed  to  salvage  the  foundering  economy.  As  the 


XXX 


government  printed  money  to  cover  growing  budget  deficits, 
inflation  skyrocketed  out  of  control,  at  one  point  reaching  an  ac- 
cumulated rate  of  about  24,000  percent,  Latin  America's  first 
recorded  hyperinflation.  For  the  most  part,  barter  replaced  the 
money  economy.  As  a  result  of  a  60  percent  drop  in  the  price  of 
tin  in  late  1985,  mining,  which  had  dominated  the  Bolivian  econ- 
omy since  colonial  times,  decreased  radically.  The  Siles  Zuazo 
government  also  alienated  the  United  States  by  opening  close 
relations  with  Cuba  and  criticizing  United  States  policies  toward 
Latin  America. 

Having  failed  completely  to  stabilize  the  economy,  Siles  Zuazo 
cut  short  his  term  of  office  by  one  year  so  that  presidential  and 
congressional  elections  could  be  held  in  July  1985.  Paz  Estenssoro's 
third  presidency  (1985-89)  was  notable  not  only  for  being  com- 
pleted without  a  military  coup  but  also  for  his  successful,  albeit 
economically  harsh,  efforts  to  bring  hyperinflation  under  control 
and  to  restore  a  measure  of  economic  and  political  stability,  as  well 
as  good  relations  with  the  United  States.  Acting  on  the  advice  of 
a  Harvard  professor  and  several  Chilean  economists,  Paz  Estens- 
soro  quickly  applied  orthodox  free-market  policies  to  cure  Bolivia's 
sick  economy,  which  was  choking  from  decades  of  state  interven- 
tion. He  implemented  an  austere  stabilization  program,  the  New 
Economic  Policy  (Nueva  PoHtica  Economica — NPE),  which  slashed 
the  government's  budget  deficit,  imposed  a  wage  freeze  and  a  ten- 
fold increase  in  the  price  of  gasoline,  eliminated  all  price  subsi- 
dies, laid  off  thousands  of  workers  at  inefficient  state-owned 
companies,  including  three-quarters  of  the  miners  employed  by 
Comibol  (about  four-fifths  of  its  work  force),  liberalized  trade, 
allowed  the  peso  to  float  against  the  United  States  dollar,  and 
loosened  disclosure  requirements  for  the  Central  Bank  (Banco  Cen- 
tral). He  also  enacted  a  state  of  siege  to  deal  with  the  resulting  labor 
unrest. 

In  a  remarkable  accomplishment,  the  government  reduced  in- 
flation to  nearly  zero  within  weeks  of  the  NPE.  Monetary  and  fis- 
cal achievements  included  cutting  the  budget  deficit  from  36  percent 
of  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  to  4  percent, 
retiring  more  than  US$600  million  of  the  country's  burdensome 
foreign  debt  through  an  innovative  buy-back  and  debt-equity  swap 
program,  and  modernizing  the  complex,  ineffective  tax  system. 
Bolivia  enjoyed  exceptional  price  stability  during  the  rest  of  the 
decade,  with  inflation  running  at  an  annual  rate  of  only  6  percent 
in  late  1989. 

The  1989  presidential  elections,  although  characterized  by 
widespread  apathy,  were  peaceful,  widely  regarded  as  fair,  and  free 


xxxi 


of  any  threat  of  military  intervention.  As  such,  they  affirmed 
Bolivia's  progression  along  the  democratic  path  and  growing 
political  maturity.  According  to  political  scientist  Eduardo  A. 
Gamarra,  the  key  political  question  in  1989  was  governability.  In 
the  first  round  in  May,  Jaime  Paz  Zamora,  the  social  democratic 
candidate  of  Bolivia's  center-left  Movement  of  the  Revolutionary 
Left  (Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolucionaria — MIR),  placed 
third  behind  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez  (1971-78),  candidate  of  the  right- 
of-center  Nationalist  Democratic  Action  (Accion  Democratica 
Nacionalista — ADN),  and  the  MNR's  Gonzalo  Sanchez  de  Lozada. 
Because  no  candidate  received  a  majority  in  the  May  elections, 
it  once  again  fell  on  Congress  to  choose  the  president  from  among 
the  three  principal  candidates. 

Paz  Zamora  and  his  longtime  political  adversary,  Banzer,  who 
had  once  jailed  Paz  Zamora  for  six  months,  joined  forces  in  an 
unlikely  alliance,  called  the  Patriotic  Accord,  thereby  outmaneu- 
vering  front-runner  Sanchez  de  Lozada  of  the  MNR  in  the  con- 
gressional lobbying.  Congress  subsequently  chose  Paz  Zamora  to 
be  the  country's  seventy-sixth  president.  It  also  selected  Banzer's 
running  mate,  Christian  Democrat  Luis  Ossio  Sanjines,  to  be  vice 
president.  Many  Bolivians,  remembering  Paz  Zamora' s  tumultu- 
ous record  as  vice  president  in  1983,  initially  viewed  with  anxiety 
and  uncertainty  the  prospect  of  the  one-time  revolutionary  assuming 
the  presidency.  On  receiving  the  presidential  sash  and  medal  of 
1825  from  his  uncle,  Paz  Estenssoro,  in  August  1989,  Paz  Zamora 
vowed  to  maintain  a  free-market  economy,  develop  agriculture  and 
small  and  medium-size  industries,  and  continue  the  NPE.  Paz 
Estenssoro  was  Bolivia's  first  democratically  elected  head  of  state 
to  complete  his  term  of  office  in  twenty-five  years  and  to  turn  over 
power  to  an  elected  successor.  Considering  that  Paz  Zamora  was 
Bolivia's  third  successive  democratically  elected  president  and  that 
almost  half  of  Bolivia's  governments  had  been  de  facto  military 
regimes,  this  democratic  trend  was  no  small  accomplishment. 

Despite  its  exaggerated  image  as  one  of  Latin  America's  most 
unstable  and  violent  countries,  Bolivia  appeared  at  the  end  of  1989 
to  have  decidedly  put  two  of  its  traditional  maladies — coups  and 
inflation — behind  it.  Furthermore,  Bolivia  was  relatively  free  of  the 
rampant  terrorism,  insurgency,  and  criminal  violence  that  afflicted 
the  larger  Andean  nations  of  Colombia  and  Peru.  With  the  main 
exception  of  the  Garcia  Meza  period,  its  politics  in  the  twentieth 
century  were  not  exceptionally  violent.  Only  three  presidents — Pedro 
Blanco  Soto  (1828-29),  Augustin  Morales  Hernandez  (1871-72), 
and  Gualberto  Villarroel  Lopez  (1943-46) — all  of  whom  were 


xxxii 


military  men  who  had  seized  power,  were  assassinated  while  in  office 
(the  deranged  Morales  by  his  own  nephew). 

Among  the  formidable  challenges  confronting  Bolivia's  new 
democratic  government  in  the  1990s  was  the  export-dependent 
economy,  which  was  stagnant  and  prone  to  crises.  Despite  Paz 
Estenssoro's  considerable  economic  achievements,  agricultural  pro- 
duction was  down,  the  unemployment  rate  was  running  at  about 
22  percent,  and  the  terms  of  trade  (see  Glossary)  had  declined  by 
almost  50  percent  since  1985.  Bolivia's  growth  prospects  were  con- 
strained by  its  dependence  on  Argentine  payments  for  a  large  share 
of  its  export  revenues,  poorly  diversified  exports,  low  domestic  sav- 
ings, and  high  levels  of  foreign  debt.  In  addition,  Argentina  had 
run  up  more  than  US$250  million  in  arrears  for  its  purchases  of 
Bolivian  natural  gas,  causing  havoc  in  Bolivia's  balance  of  pay- 
ments and  current  account.  Nevertheless,  the  economy  grew  by 
2.2  percent  in  1987  and  2.8  percent  in  1988,  spurred  by  a  resur- 
gent mining  sector,  which  accounted  for  44  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's export  income  in  1988. 

In  mid-November  1989,  Paz  Zamora  responded  to  his  country's 
first  crisis,  a  strike  by  the  80,000  state  teachers  who  were  supported 
by  the  COB,  by  the  usual  method  of  imposing  a  state  of  siege  (which 
banned  strikes,  public  meetings,  and  demonstrations  for  ninety- 
days),  arresting  more  than  850  union  members,  and  banishing  some 
150  of  them  to  internal  exile.  The  teachers  were  demanding  a  spe- 
cial wage  bonus  of  US$100  to  supplement  their  meager  monthly 
wage  of  about  US$45.  He  brought  the  troublesome  strike  to  an 
end  the  following  spring,  however,  by  offering  them  a  1 7  percent 
pay  increase  and  paying  them  an  already  negotiated  annual  bonus. 

Growing  national  security,  social,  and  economic  threats  from 
cocaine  trafficking  and  addiction  also  confronted  the  Paz  Zamora 
government.  About  one- third  of  the  work  force  of  1.6  million  in 
1989  was  engaged  in  an  underground  subsistence  economy  based 
mainly  on  coca  cultivation  and  contraband  and  estimated  to  be 
larger  than  the  formal  economy.  The  coca/cocaine  industry  posed 
a  dilemma  for  Bolivia,  the  world's  second  largest  source  of  cocaine, 
because  of  the  trade-off  between  its  economic  benefits  and  its  po- 
litical, social,  and  cultural  costs.  On  the  one  hand,  exports  of  unre- 
fined coca  paste  and  cocaine  generated  an  annual  income  of  US$1 .5 
billion,  of  which  some  US$600  million  remained  within  the  coun- 
try in  1989.  The  cocaine  industry  had  become  Bolivia's  biggest 
employer,  employing  some  500,000  people  in  the  production  of 
coca  and  the  transportation,  sale,  and  manufacture  of  cocaine,  ac- 
cording to  Cochabamba's  Institute  of  Social  and  Economic  Studies. 
The  majority  of  the  dismissed  Comibol  workers  entered  the  coca 


xxxin 


trade,  many  of  them  joining  the  Chapare  region's  approximately 
200,000  workers  and  peasants  involved  in  cutting  and  burning  the 
rain  forest  and  in  growing  coca  bushes,  whose  leaves  were  processed 
into  coca  paste  and  cocaine. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  cocaine  industry  enabled  cocaine 
traffickers — nationals  and  foreigners  alike — to  threaten  the  national 
sovereignty  and  institutions  with  occasional  acts  of  terrorism  and 
increases  in  corruption  at  all  levels  of  public  institutions.  Other 
by-products  of  the  cocaine  business  included  increased  coca-paste 
addiction  among  Bolivia's  skyrocketing  numbers  of  abandoned  chil- 
dren, decreased  production  of  relatively  unprofitable  traditional 
food  crops,  and  a  widening  income  disparity  between  the  wealthy 
minority  and  the  poor,  who  constituted  the  overwhelming  major- 
ity. Moreover,  Bolivia,  known  for  centuries  for  its  minerals — first 
silver  and  then  tin — had  become  synonymous  with  cocaine. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia's  coca/cocaine  industry  dominated  re- 
lations with  the  United  States,  the  principal  cocaine-consuming 
country.  One  of  the  most  difficult  challenges  facing  Paz  Zamora 
was  complying  with  a  controversial  coca  eradication  law  in  order 
to  continue  to  qualify  for  United  States  economic  aid.  Although 
Bolivia  was  attempting,  with  United  States  support,  to  implement 
a  program  combining  cocaine  interdiction  and  coca  eradication  and 
substitution,  its  efforts  were  hampered  by  strong  resistance  from 
the  increasingly  militant  and  politically  powerful  peasant  unions 
of  coca  growers,  inadequate  enforcement,  constant  expansion  of 
coca  fields,  and  corruption.  Coca  production  actually  increased  by 
more  than  20  percent  in  1988,  according  to  the  United  States 
Department  of  State. 

Bolivia  ruled  out  other  more  drastic  eradication  methods,  such 
as  repression  of  the  coca  farmers  or  herbicidal  spraying  of  coca  fields. 
A  more  effective  approach  than  using  coercive  methods  against  the 
coca- growing  small  farmers,  in  the  view  of  social  scientist  Kevin 
Healy,  would  be,  in  addition  to  reducing  world  demand  for  co- 
caine, to  provide  agricultural  price  supports  for  the  otherwise  un- 
profitable substitute  crops,  such  as  bananas,  coffee,  and  cocoa. 

December  15,  1989 

*    *  * 

In  March  1990,  the  United  States  Department  of  State  reported 
that  progress  in  antinarcotics  operations  in  1989  was  uneven  and 
that  coca  eradication  in  Bolivia  again  had  failed  to  keep  pace  with 
new  production.  It  found,  however,  that  the  situation  had  begun 


xxxiv 


to  improve  during  the  last  quarter  of  the  year  as  a  result  of  the 
Paz  Zamora  government's  cooperation  with  the  United  States  in 
preparing  for  the  Andean  Summit  in  mid-February  1990,  its 
stepped-up  coca-eradication  efforts,  and  its  decision  to  allow  the 
United  States  to  extradite  notorious  cocaine  trafficker  Luis  Arce 
Gomez. 

During  the  first  five  months  of  1990,  moreover,  the  Paz  Zamora 
government  appeared  to  have  stemmed  the  annual  trend  of  expand- 
ing production.  With  coca  production  no  longer  profitable  for  many 
small  farmers  in  the  Chapare  because  of  a  drastic  drop  in  the  price 
of  coca  paste,  the  farmers  reportedly  had  eradicated  more  than  3,200 
hectares  of  the  region's  estimated  54,000  hectares  of  coca  plants, 
more  than  in  all  of  1989.  Chapare  coca  farmers  were  beginning 
to  substitute  alternative  crops,  such  as  fruit  and  spices.  Coca's 
precipitous,  albeit  temporary,  fall  from  bonanza- to-bust  status  in 
Bolivia  was  attributed  largely  to  a  combination  of  Colombia's  crack- 
down on  major  drug  traffickers  and  the  Paz  Zamora  government's 
vigorous  enforcement  of  its  policy  to  destroy  coca-paste  laborato- 
ries and  crack  down  on  wholesale  buyers  of  coca  paste. 

Bolivia's  move  away  from  a  cocaine-based  economy  was  expected 
to  have  significant  economic  costs.  The  Paz  Zamora  government 
estimated  in  early  1990  that  US$627  million  would  be  needed  for 
crop  substitution  and  rural  development  over  the  1990-95  period. 
Without  substantial  assistance,  the  prospects  that  coca  farmers  could 
earn  a  living  by  producing  alternative  crops  without  a  guaranteed 
market  were  uncertain  at  best.  During  his  official  visit  to  Washing- 
ton in  May  1990,  Paz  Zamora  appealed  for  a  major  increase  in 
financial  aid  to  help  extract  the  Bolivian  economy  from  the  cocaine 
business.  In  addition  to  financing  the  operations  of  Bolivia's  anti- 
narcotics  police  and  the  Bolivian  operations  of  the  United  States 
Drug  Enforcement  Administration  (DEA),  the  United  States 
provided  US$78  million  in  development  aid  and  economic  sup- 
port in  the  1990  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary).  A  small  Peace  Corps 
program  was  reestablished  in  Bolivia  in  March  1990. 

Chapare  coca  farmers  were  not  the  only  inhabitants  of  the  eastern 
lowlands  making  their  complaints  known  in  1990.  In  September 
more  than  700  Indians  representing  ten  tribes  in  Beni  Department 
staged  a  643 -kilometer  " march  for  dignity  and  territory"  from 
Trinidad  to  La  Paz.  The  Indians  were  protesting  the  destruction 
of  the  560,000  hectares  of  the  Chimane  Forest  that  the  government 
legally  handed  over  to  logging  companies  in  1987.  In  addition  to 
ruining  the  forest's  flora  and  fauna,  the  Indians  claimed  that  the 
loggers  were  threatening  their  culture.  Critics  faulted  the  logging 
companies  for  not  reforesting,  as  required  by  Bolivian  law.  The 


xxxv 


government  attempted  to  strike  a  balance  between  the  interests  of 
the  Indians  and  loggers  by  offering  to  rezone  the  logging  region, 
but  not  to  revoke  all  timber  rights. 

Paz  Zamora's  continuation  of  his  predecessor's  successful  free- 
market  policies,  as  well  as  the  new  government's  success  in  taming 
Bolivia's  inflation,  settling  its  foreign  debts,  and  adopting  pro- 
business  and  pro-foreign  investment  policies,  persuaded  the  Paris 
Club  (see  Glossary)  creditor  countries  to  grant  the  country  a  spe- 
cial debt-rescheduling  package  in  March  1990.  The  government 
also  hoped  to  increase  GDP  growth  from  1989's  meager  2  percent 
to  5  percent  per  year.  To  that  end,  it  planned,  under  a  five-year 
program,  to  sell  off  100  of  its  157  state-owned  companies  and  use 
the  estimated  US$500  million  in  revenues  for  health,  education, 
and  public  works. 

In  addition  to  its  privatization  program,  the  Paz  Zamora  govern- 
ment began  to  encourage  foreign  investment.  In  1989  it  opened 
a  stock  exchange  in  Bolivia  and  rewrote  the  Investment  Law  and 
Mining  and  Hydrocarbons  codes  to  make  them  more  favorable  to 
foreign  investment.  Bolivia  also  joined  with  four  other  South  Ameri- 
can countries — Argentina,  Brazil,  Paraguay,  and  Uruguay — in  a 
joint  effort  to  call  the  attention  of  the  world's  investors,  business 
people,  and  lending  agencies  to  investment  opportunities  in  the 
region.  In  the  first  quarter  of  1990,  a  number  of  foreign  compa- 
nies expressed  interest  in  joint- venture  projects  to  tap  Bolivia's  vast 
mineral  reserves,  and  several  signed  on  to  such  undertakings.  By 
September,  however,  Paz  Zamora  had  had  to  retreat  from  his 
neoliberal,  economically  orthodox  program  under  pressure  from 
COB  unions  that  had  staged  strikes  and  mobilized  popular  sup- 
port against  privatization  of  "strategic"  state  companies  and  for- 
eign mining  contracts. 

November  30,  1990 

*    *  * 

The  question  of  "governability"  under  the  Paz  Zamora  govern- 
ment that  Gamarra  raises  in  Chapter  4  was  put  to  the  test  in  De- 
cember 1990  when  the  country's  fledgling  democratic  system 
experienced  what  the  daily  La  Razon  somewhat  hyperbolically 
described  as  its  "worst  political  crisis"  in  a  struggle  over  separa- 
tion of  powers.  Quintessentially  Bolivian,  the  constitutional  crisis 
arose  over  the  seemingly  minor  matter  of  the  state's  overturning 
a  15  percent  increase  in  the  levy  a  company  was  expected  to  pay 
on  beer  sales.  On  the  initiative  of  the  Paz  Zamora  administration's 


xxxvi 


parliamentary  majority  in  the  lower  house,  Congress  suspended 
eight  of  the  twelve  members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  on 
grounds  of  incompetence.  In  response,  the  opposition  MNR 
charged  that  the  impeachment  proceedings  were  a  Kangaroo  court 
and  intended  to  concentrate  all  three  state  powers  in  the  hands  of 
Paz  Zamora  and  his  political  partners.  Ironically,  the  president  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  called  on  the  military  to  intervene. 
The  spectacle,  which  Paz  Zamora  dismissed  as  "a  tempest  in  a 
teacup,"  tarnished  the  international  image  of  Bolivia's  new 
democracy.  On  the  positive  side,  however,  the  military's  inaction 
seemed  to  reaffirm  the  democratic  system.  Indeed,  the  armed  forces 
commander,  General  Jorge  Moreira  Rojas,  appealed  to  govern- 
ment and  opposition  politicians  to  remain  calm  "for  the  good  of 
the  image  of  Bolivian  democracy." 

In  one  area  at  least,  Bolivia's  economy  made  a  better  impres- 
sion of  stability  in  1990  with  an  annual  inflation  rate  well  below 
15  percent,  the  lowest  in  Latin  America.  In  other  areas,  however, 
economic  prospects  were  less  encouraging.  A  study  found  that  dur- 
ing the  1980s  the  informal  sector  of  the  economy  increased  10  per- 
cent, to  55  percent  of  all  jobs,  while  unemployment  increased 
drastically  and  real  wages  declined  sharply.  Growth  of  GDP  in  1990 
was  expected  to  be  less  than  2.5  percent.  Moreover,  some  observ- 
ers expected  1991  to  be  a  year  of  conflict  between  the  workers  and 
the  administration  as  a  result  of  higher  fuel  prices  and  the  govern- 
ment's  intention  to  proceed  with  plans  to  privatize  most  state-run 
enterprises  and  to  allow  foreign  companies  to  develop  natural 
resources. 


March  15,  1991  Rex  A.  Hudson 


XXXVll 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Symbolism  on  the  front  of  the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku 


THE  HISTORY  OF  BOLIVIA  reflects  both  its  pre-Columbian 
and  its  colonial  heritage.  The  ruins  of  Tiwanaku  (Tiahuanaco)  tes- 
tify to  the  first  great  Andean  empire.  Bolivians  still  speak  the  lan- 
guages of  the  Aymara  kingdoms  and  of  their  Quechua  conquerors; 
the  society  remains  predominantly  Indian  and  rural,  and  only  a 
minority  is  monolingual  in  Spanish.  Nevertheless,  Spain  also  left 
its  imprint  in  the  political,  economic,  and  social  spheres.  During 
300  years  of  colonial  rule,  Spain  imposed  its  institutions  on  the 
colony  and  concentrated  on  mineral  exports,  which  are  still  the  back- 
bone of  the  Bolivian  economy.  Using  forced  Indian  labor,  local 
entrepreneurs  extracted  the  mineral  wealth — the  silver  deposits  at 
Potosf  were  the  largest  in  the  Western  world — and  shipped  it  to 
Spain  in  accord  with  the  prevailing  mercantilist  practices. 

After  Bolivia  received  independence  from  Spain  in  1825,  politi- 
cal instability  became  endemic.  Rivalries  among  caudillos  resulted 
in  numerous  coups  and  countercoups.  Despite  attempts  at  reform 
by  the  nation's  first  three  presidents,  the  economy  did  not  recover 
from  the  disruptions  caused  by  the  wars  of  independence;  taxes 
paid  by  the  Indians  were  the  main  sources  of  income  for  the  gov- 
ernments. 

The  War  of  the  Pacific  (1879-83),  in  which  the  country  lost  its 
access  to  the  sea  to  Chile,  had  a  profound  impact  on  Bolivia.  Civilian 
governments  replaced  the  erratic  caudillo  rule,  and  for  fifty  years 
Bolivia  enjoyed  relative  political  stability.  The  economy  improved 
with  the  dramatic  rise  of  tin  as  the  main  source  of  wealth.  Because 
Bolivians,  rather  than  foreigners,  dominated  the  tin-mining  industry, 
the  former  made  most  political  decisions.  As  a  result,  the  parties 
in  power — the  Conservative  Party,  Liberal  Party,  and  Republican 
Party — were  remarkably  alike  in  that  they  were  primarily  interested 
in  the  development  of  the  mining  sector.  Increasing  democratiza- 
tion benefited  the  middle  class  but  still  excluded  the  Indians. 

The  devastating  defeat  suffered  by  Bolivia  at  the  hands  of 
Paraguay  in  the  Chaco  War  (1932-35)  discredited  the  traditional 
leadership  and  brought  the  military  back  to  politics.  Between  1936 
and  1939,  military  governments  tried  to  reform  the  country  from 
above  with  a  program  of  "military  socialism"  that  included  social 
justice  and  the  control  of  the  country's  natural  resources.  In  1937 
they  nationalized  the  Standard  Oil  holdings,  the  first  such  step 
taken  in  Latin  America.  Although  they  failed  because  they  were 
inconsistent  in  their  rule  and  unable  to  marshal  popular  support, 
these  governments  were  important  because  they  facilitated  the 


3 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

formation  of  a  number  of  new  parties  that,  despite  differences, 
agreed  on  the  need  to  limit  the  power  of  the  tin  magnates. 

Although  members  of  the  Conservative  Party  attempted  to  stop 
the  growing  trend  toward  reform  in  the  1940s,  they  could  not  con- 
tain the  popular  discontent.  Unrest  in  the  countryside  increased, 
and  the  middle  class  resented  the  government's  inability  to  deal 
with  economic  stagnation  and  increasing  inflation.  The  unifying 
force  in  the  opposition  was  the  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Move- 
ment, a  primarily  middle-class  party  that  became  more  radical  as 
it  integrated  the  militant  ideology  and  demands  of  the  workers. 

Bolivia's  1952  Revolution,  led  by  the  Nationalist  Revolution- 
ary Movement,  was  a  turning  point  in  the  country's  history.  The 
government  decreed  universal  suffrage  without  literacy  or  property 
requirements,  an  action  that  increased  the  electorate  from  some 
200,000  to  1  million  voters.  It  nationalized  the  mines  of  the  three 
great  companies — Patifto,  Hochschild,  and  Aramayo — and  dis- 
tributed land  to  the  campesinos  under  a  far-reaching  agrarian  re- 
form. The  revolution  remained  incomplete  and  lost  momentum, 
however,  when  the  government's  policies  produced  a  virtual 
bankruptcy  of  the  economy.  In  exchange  for  massive  assistance 
from  the  United  States  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary),  the  government  agreed  to  cut  social  spend- 
ing. This  action  produced  renewed  labor  unrest  and  eroded  sup- 
port for  President  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro  (1952-56,  1960-64,  and 
1985-89).  The  government  then  made  the  fateful  decision  to  rebuild 
the  Bolivian  armed  forces,  which  had  been  purged  and  decimated 
in  1952.  During  the  early  1960s,  the  military  became  the  arbiters 
in  Bolivian  politics  as  widespread  anarchy  convinced  many  that 
only  the  armed  forces  could  restore  order.  As  a  result,  a  military 
coup  in  1964  led  by  General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortufio  and  Gen- 
eral Alfredo  Ovando  Candfa  had  widespread  support. 

The  military  governments  in  power  after  1964  varied  in  their 
ideological  outlook.  The  armed  forces  were  divided  by  personal 
ambitions,  generational  differences,  and  regional  interests  and 
lacked  the  corporate  identity  of  a  modern  military.  Barrientos 's 
conservative  rule  (president,  1964-65;  copresident,  May  1965- 
January  1966;  and  president,  1966-69),  for  example,  encouraged 
foreign  investment  and  suppression  of  the  left,  whereas  the 
"Revolutionary  Nationalist"  governments  of  Ovando  (copresident, 
May  1965-January  1966,  and  president,  January- August  1966  and 
1969-70)  and  Juan  Jose  Torres  Gonzalez  (1970-71)  nationalized 
United  States  holdings  and  courted  the  workers,  peasants,  and 
students.  Another  conservative,  Colonel  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez 
(1971-78),  was  forced  out  because  of  growing  opposition  and  pres- 
sure from  the  United  States  to  reestablish  democracy.  The  attempt 


4 


The  Gateway  of  the  Sun  (La  Puerta  del  Sol),  Tiwanaku 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs  Division,  Library  of  Congress 

at  a  transition  to  democracy  after  1978  failed  at  first  because  no 
single  party  achieved  a  majority  in  three  elections,  and  alliances 
of  various  groups  could  not  break  the  deadlock.  Military  coups, 
including  one  led  by  the  ruthless  and  corrupt  General  Luis  Garcia 
Meza  Tejada  (1980-81),  overthrew  civilian  interim  presidents.  Only 
in  1982  did  the  military  return  the  country  to  democratic  gov- 
ernment. 

Pre-Columbian  Civilizations 

The  Bolivian  highlands,  permanently  settled  for  at  least  21,000 
years,  were  part  of  the  culture  of  Andean  South  America  before 
the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards.  The  records  are  fragmentary  but  sug- 
gest that  agriculture  started  about  3000  B.C.  and  that  the  produc- 
tion of  metal,  especially  copper,  began  1,500  years  later. 

By  600  B.C.,  the  first  great  Andean  empire  had  emerged  on  the 
high  plateau  between  the  mountains  known  as  the  Altiplano.  This 
empire,  the  Tiwanakan,  was  centered  near  the  southeastern  side 
of  Lake  Titicaca  and  included  urban  centers  around  the  lake,  as 
well  as  enclaves  in  different  ecological  zones  from  the  eastern  val- 
leys to  the  Pacific  Coast  (see  fig.  1).  Tiwanaku  was  a  great  center 
of  trade  and  religion,  and  the  impact  of  its  culture  spread  far  be- 
yond the  boundaries  of  present-day  Bolivia.  Apparendy,  the  Ti- 
wanakan Empire  was  established  through  colonization  rather  than 


5 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


through  conquest.  Its  rapid  expansion  after  1000  and  sudden  col- 
lapse around  1200  are  still  poorly  understood. 

The  collapse  of  Tiwanakan  influence  resulted  in  the  rise  of  seven 
regional  kingdoms  of  the  Aymara,  the  most  powerful  states  located 
in  the  densely  populated  area  around  Lake  Titicaca.  The  Aymara, 
a  belligerent  people  who  lived  in  fortified  hilltop  towns,  had  an  ex- 
traordinary ability  to  adapt  to  the  unique  climatic  conditions  of 
the  region  and  increased  their  food  supply  through  irrigation  and 
the  process  of  freeze-drying  crops.  By  maintaining  colonists  in  the 
semitropical  valleys  on  the  eastern  slopes  of  the  Andes  and  on  the 
Pacific  Coast,  they  were  able  to  produce  both  tropical  and  high- 
land crops.  Their  basic  social  unit  was  the  ayllu  (see  Glossary),  a 
kinship  group  or  clan  that  organized  work  and  distributed  land 
among  its  members. 

The  Aymara  completely  dominated  the  Uru,  another  major  eth- 
nic group  in  the  pre-Columbian  southern  Andes.  Although  the  Uru 
might  have  preceded  the  Aymara  in  the  region,  by  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury they  were  poor  fishermen  and  landless  workers. 

The  Aymara,  however,  were  not  able  to  contain  the  expansion 
of  the  Quechua,  the  third  major  ethnic  group.  After  the  collapse 
of  the  Tiwanakan  Empire,  a  Quechua- speaking  state  emerged  in 
the  area  around  Cuzco  (in  present-day  Peru).  In  the  early  fifteenth 
century,  the  Quechua,  who  became  known  as  the  Incas  when  they 
adopted  the  name  of  their  rulers,  were  the  most  powerful  group 
in  the  northern  highlands.  As  the  Aymara  kingdoms  in  the  south 
became  weaker  in  the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century,  the  Incas 
began  to  conquer  them. 

The  Bolivian  highlands  became  known  as  the  Kollasuyo,  a 
densely  populated  area  with  great  economic  and  mineral  wealth 
that  constituted  one  of  the  four  administrative  units  of  the  Inca 
Empire.  The  highest  official  of  the  Kollasuyo  was  responsible  only 
to  the  Inca  (the  emperor)  and  supervised  a  group  of  provincial 
governors,  who  in  turn  controlled  members  of  the  Aymara  nobil- 
ity. Under  a  draft  system  called  the  mita  (see  Glossary),  the  Incas 
forced  local  Indians  in  the  Kollasuyo  to  work  in  the  mines  or  on 
construction  projects  or  to  serve  in  the  armies,  compensating  them 
fully  for  their  labor.  Despite  their  goal  of  extreme  centralization, 
the  Incas  did  not  fundamentally  change  the  organization  of  the 
Aymara  kingdoms,  which  remained  relatively  autonomous.  Many 
local  chiefs  kept  many  of  their  former  powers  and  were,  in  gen- 
eral, reinforced  by  Inca  authority.  They  were  also  able  to  retain 
their  culture,  their  local  religion,  and  their  language.  The  regional 
nobility,  although  forced  to  send  their  children  to  Cuzco  for  edu- 
cation, continued  to  hold  private  property.  Moreover,  the  system 


6 


Historical  Setting 


of  sending  colonists  to  the  eastern  valleys  and  the  coast  was  toler- 
ated under  Inca  rule. 

In  1470,  however,  several  Aymara  kingdoms  rebelled  against 
Inca  rule.  The  Incas  completely  defeated  two  states  and  pacified 
the  region  by  sending  mitimaes,  Quechua- speaking  colonists,  to 
Aymara  territory,  especially  to  the  southern  valleys  and  to  the  more 
central  valley  regions  where  Cochabamba  and  Sucre  were  later 
founded.  By  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century,  the  Incas  had 
fully  established  their  rule  over  the  Kollasuyo.  In  the  1980s,  the 
legacy  of  this  resetdement  policy  could  be  seen  in  the  predominance 
of  Quechua  speakers  in  many  areas  of  Bolivia  (see  Ethnic  Groups, 
ch.  2). 

The  Incas  failed,  however,  to  conquer  the  nomadic  tribes  in  the 
eastern  Bolivian  lowlands.  The  remains  of  Incan  fortresses  there 
are  evidence  of  this  failure  and  suggest  that  the  Incas  could  sub- 
due only  those  cultures  that  were  primarily  based  on  agriculture. 
Thus,  the  Indian  groups  of  the  eastern  two-thirds  of  Bolivia  pre- 
served their  ways  of  life  to  a  great  extent,  even  after  the  Spanish 
conquest. 

Conquest  and  Colonial  Rule,  1532-1809 
Conquest  and  Settlement 

Francisco  Pizarro,  Diego  de  Almagro,  and  Hernando  de  Luque 
led  the  Spanish  discovery  and  conquest  of  the  Inca  Empire.  They 
first  sailed  south  in  1524  along  the  Pacific  Coast  from  Panama  to 
confirm  the  legendary  existence  of  a  land  of  gold  called  "Biru." 

Because  the  rapidly  expanding  Inca  Empire  was  internally  weak, 
the  conquest  was  remarkably  easy.  After  the  Inca  Huayna  Capac 
died  in  1527,  his  sons  Huascar  and  Atahualpa  fought  over  the  suc- 
cession. Although  Atahualpa  defeated  his  brother,  he  had  not  yet 
consolidated  his  power  when  the  Spaniards  arrived  in  1532,  and 
he  seriously  misjudged  their  strength.  Atahualpa  did  not  attempt 
to  defeat  Pizarro  when  he  arrived  on  the  coast  in  1532  because  the 
Incan  ruler  was  convinced  that  those  who  commanded  the  moun- 
tains also  controlled  the  coast.  When  Pizarro  formed  alliances  with 
Indians  who  resented  Inca  rule,  Atahualpa  did  not  modify  the  Inca 
ceremonial  approach  to  warfare,  which  included  launching  attacks 
by  the  light  of  the  full  moon.  On  November  16,  1532,  Pizarro  took 
Atahualpa  prisoner  during  their  first  encounter  and  later  executed 
him,  even  after  payment  of  a  ransom  equivalent  to  half  a  century 
of  European  production  of  gold  and  silver.  One  year  later,  Cuzco  fell. 

Despite  Pizarro 's  quick  victory,  Indian  rebellions  soon  began  and 
continued  periodically  throughout  the  colonial  period.  In  1537  Manco 


7 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Inca,  whom  the  Spanish  had  established  as  a  puppet  emperor,  re- 
belled against  the  new  rulers  and  restored  a  "neo-Inca"  state.  This 
state  continued  to  challenge  Spanish  authority  even  after  the  Spanish 
suppressed  the  revolt  and  beheaded  Tupac  Amaru  in  the  public 
square  of  Cuzco  in  1572.  Later  revolts  in  the  Bolivian  highlands 
were  usually  organized  by  the  elders  of  the  community  and  re- 
mained local  in  nature,  the  exception  being  the  great  rebellion  of 
Tupac  Amaru  II  in  the  eighteenth  century. 

During  the  first  two  decades  of  Spanish  rule,  the  settlement  of  the 
Bolivian  highlands — now  known  as  Upper  (Alto)  Peru  or  Charcas — 
was  delayed  by  a  civil  war  between  the  forces  of  Pizarro  and  those 
of  Almagro.  The  two  conquistadors  had  divided  the  Incan  terri- 
tory, with  the  north  under  the  control  of  Pizarro  and  the  south 
under  that  of  Almagro.  Fighting  broke  out  in  1537,  however,  when 
Almagro  seized  Cuzco  after  suppressing  the  Manco  Inca  rebellion. 
Pizarro  defeated  and  executed  Almagro  in  1538  but  was  himself 
assassinated  three  years  later  by  former  supporters  of  Almagro. 
Pizarro 's  brother  Gonzalo  assumed  control  of  Upper  Peru  but  soon 
became  embroiled  in  a  rebellion  against  the  Spanish  crown.  Only 
with  the  execution  of  Gonzalo  Pizarro  in  1 548  did  Spain  succeed 
in  reasserting  its  authority;  later  that  year,  colonial  authorities  es- 
tablished the  city  of  La  Paz,  which  soon  became  an  important  com- 
mercial and  transshipment  center. 

Indian  resistance  delayed  the  conquest  and  settlement  of  the 
Bolivian  lowlands.  The  Spanish  established  Santa  Cruz  de  la  Sierra 
(hereafter,  Santa  Cruz)  in  1561 ,  but  the  Gran  Chaco,  the  colonial 
name  for  the  arid  Chaco  region,  remained  a  violent  frontier 
throughout  colonial  rule.  In  the  Chaco,  the  Indians,  mostly 
Chiri guano,  carried  out  unrelenting  attacks  against  colonial  set- 
tlements and  remained  independent  of  direct  Spanish  control. 

The  Economy  of  Upper  Peru 

Spain  immediately  recognized  the  enormous  economic  poten- 
tial of  Upper  Peru.  The  highlands  were  rich  in  minerals,  and  Potosi 
had  the  Western  world's  largest  concentration  of  silver.  The  area 
was  heavily  populated  and  hence  could  supply  workers  for  the  sil- 
ver mines.  In  addition,  Upper  Peru  could  provide  food  for  the 
miners  on  the  Altiplano. 

Despite  these  conditions,  silver  production  fluctuated  dramati- 
cally during  the  colonial  period.  After  an  initial  fifteen-year  surge 
in  production,  output  began  to  fall  in  1560  as  a  result  of  a  severe 
labor  shortage  caused  by  the  Indian  population's  inability  to  resist 
European  diseases.  Around  the  same  time,  Potosi 's  rich  surface 
deposits  became  depleted,  which  meant  that  even  more  labor  would 


8 


Sixteenth- century  woodcut  of  Potosi  Hill, 
also  called  Rich  Hill  (Cerro  Rico) 

be  required  to  extract  silver.  The  labor  shortage  was  addressed  by 
Francisco  de  Toledo,  the  energetic  viceroy  (the  king's  personal 
representative)  of  Peru,  during  a  visit  to  Upper  Peru  in  the  1570s. 
Toledo  used  the  pre-Columbian  mita  to  extract  forced  labor  for  the 
mines  at  Potosi  from  some  sixteen  districts  in  the  highlands,  which 
were  designated  as  areas  supplying  mita.  Adult  males  could  be  re- 
quired to  spend  every  sixth  year  working  in  the  mines.  Henceforth, 
Potosi  mining  depended  on  the  mita  as  well  as  on  a  labor  system 
in  which  relatively  free  men  worked  alongside  those  who  were 
coerced.  Toledo  also  regulated  the  mining  laws,  established  a  mint 
at  Potosi,  and  introduced  the  mercury  amalgam  process.  Adoption 
of  the  amalgam  process  was  particularly  important,  according  to 
Herbert  S.  Klein,  in  that  it  eliminated  Indian  control  over  refining. 

The  second  problem,  the  exhaustion  of  the  high-content  surface 
ores,  required  technological  innovations.  Hydraulic  power  took  on 
increased  importance  because  of  the  construction  of  large  refining 
centers.  By  1621  a  system  of  artificial  lakes  with  a  storage  capacity 
of  several  million  tons  provided  a  steady  supply  of  water  for  refiner- 
ies. With  the  labor  and  technological  problems  resolved,  silver  min- 
ing flourished.  By  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  silver 
mining  at  Potosi  had  become  so  important  that  the  city  had  the 
largest  population  in  the  Western  Hemisphere,  approximately 
160,000  inhabitants. 


9 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  end  of  the  seventeenth-century  boom,  however,  was  followed 
by  a  major  decline  in  the  mining  industry.  The  exhaustion  of  the 
first  rich  veins  required  deeper  and  more  expensive  shafts.  The 
rapid  decrease  of  the  Indian  population  as  a  result  of  disease  and 
exploitation  by  the  mita  also  contributed  to  the  reduction  in  silver 
output.  After  1700  only  small  amounts  of  bullion  from  Upper  Peru 
were  shipped  to  Spain. 

Kings  from  the  Bourbon  Dynasty  in  Spain  tried  to  reform  the 
colonial  economy  in  the  mid-eighteenth  century  by  reviving  min- 
ing. The  Spanish  crown  provided  the  financial  support  necessary 
to  develop  deeper  shafts,  and  in  1736  it  agreed  to  lower  the  tax 
rate  from  20  to  10  percent  of  the  total  output.  The  crown  also  helped 
create  a  minerals  purchasing  bank,  the  Banco  de  San  Carlos,  in 
1751  and  subsidized  the  price  of  mercury  to  local  mines.  The  foun- 
dation of  an  academy  of  metallurgy  in  Potosf  indicated  the  crown's 
concern  with  technical  improvements  in  silver  production.  The 
attempts  to  revive  the  mining  sector  in  Upper  Peru  were  only  par- 
tially successful,  however,  and  could  not  halt  the  economic  collapse 
of  Potosf  at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Nevertheless, 
mining  remained  critical  to  the  economy  of  Upper  Peru  because 
food  supplies  sent  from  the  valleys  to  mining  centers  on  the  Altiplano 
influenced  agricultural  production. 

Farming  at  first  took  place  on  encomiendas  (see  Glossary).  The 
crown  granted  a  small  number  of  conquistadors  the  right  to  the 
labor  and  produce  of  Indians  living  on  the  encomienda,  and  by  the 
1650s  there  were  some  eighty-two  encomiendas  in  Upper  Peru.  En- 
comenderos  tended  to  monopolize  agricultural  production,  control 
the  cheap  Indian  labor,  and  collect  the  tribute  that  the  Indians  had 
to  pay  to  the  crown.  Because  encomenderos  were  difficult  to  control 
and  abused  their  laborers,  however,  the  crown  tried  repeatedly  to 
bring  Indians  under  its  direct  jurisdiction  and  control. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  seventeenth  century,  agricultural  produc- 
tion shifted  from  encomiendas  to  large  estates,  on  which  Indians 
worked  in  exchange  for  the  use  of  land.  Cochabamba  became  a 
major  producer  of  corn  and  wheat,  and  the  valleys  produced  coca 
leaves  in  increasing  amounts  during  colonial  rule. 

In  addition  to  mining  and  agricultural  production,  Indian  trib- 
ute (alcabala)  became  an  increasingly  important  source  of  income 
for  the  crown  despite  Indian  migration  to  avoid  payment.  An  early 
effort  to  collect  tribute  from  Indians  by  moving  them  into  villages 
or  indigenous  communities  (comunidades  indigenas)  was  unsuccess- 
ful because  of  resistance  from  both  encomenderos  and  Indians.  But 
by  the  late  eighteenth  century,  an  increase  in  the  Indian  popula- 
tion, the  extension  of  tribute  payments  to  all  Indian  males  (including 


10 


Historical  Setting 


those  who  owned  land),  and  a  relative  decline  in  income  from  the 
mines  combined  to  make  alcabala  the  second  largest  source  of  in- 
come in  Upper  Peru.  Tribute  payments  also  increased  because 
Spanish  absolutism  made  no  concessions  to  human  misfortune,  such 
as  natural  disasters.  The  Indian  tribute  was  increased  by  1  million 
pesos  annually. 

State,  Church,  and  Society 

The  longevity  of  Spain's  empire  in  South  America  can  be  ex- 
plained partly  by  the  successful  administration  of  the  colonies.  Spain 
was  at  first  primarily  interested  in  controlling  the  independent- 
minded  conquerors,  but  its  main  goal  soon  became  maintaining 
the  flow  of  revenue  to  the  crown  and  collecting  the  tribute  of  goods 
and  labor  from  the  Indian  population.  To  this  end,  Spain  soon 
created  an  elaborate  bureaucracy  in  the  New  World  in  which  vari- 
ous institutions  served  as  watchdogs  over  each  other  and  local  offi- 
cials had  considerable  autonomy. 

Upper  Peru,  at  first  a  part  of  the  Viceroyalty  of  Peru,  joined 
the  new  Viceroyalty  of  Rio  de  la  Plata  (whose  capital  was  Buenos 
Aires)  when  it  was  created  in  1776  (see  fig.  2).  The  viceroy  was 
aided  by  the  audiencia  (council),  which  was  simultaneously  the 
highest  court  of  appeal  in  the  jurisdiction  and,  in  the  absence  of 
the  viceroy,  also  had  administrative  and  executive  powers.  The 
wealth  of  Upper  Peru  and  its  remoteness  from  Lima  convinced  the 
authorities  in  Lima  to  create  an  audiencia  in  the  city  of  Chuquisaca 
(present-day  Sucre)  in  1558.  Chuquisaca  had  become  particularly 
important  as  Potosfs  administrative  and  agricultural  supply  center. 
The  jurisdiction  of  the  audiencia,  known  as  Charcas,  initially  covered 
a  radius  of  100  "leagues"  (179,600  hectares)  around  Chuquisaca, 
but  it  soon  included  Santa  Cruz  and  territory  belonging  to  present- 
day  Paraguay  and,  until  1568,  also  the  entire  district  of  Cuzco. 
The  president  of  the  audiencia  had  judicial  authority  as  well  as  ad- 
ministrative and  executive  powers  in  the  region,  but  only  in  rou- 
tine matters;  more  important  decisions  were  made  in  Lima.  This 
situation  led  to  a  competitive  attitude  and  the  reputation  of  Upper 
Peru  for  assertiveness,  a  condition  reinforced  by  the  economic  im- 
portance of  the  region. 

Spain  exercised  its  control  of  smaller  administrative  units  in  the 
colonies  through  royal  officials,  such  as  the  corregidor  (see  Glossary), 
who  represented  the  king  in  the  municipal  governments  that  were 
elected  by  their  citizens.  By  the  early  seventeenth  century,  there 
were  four  corregidores  in  Upper  Peru. 

In  the  late  eighteenth  century,  Spain  undertook  an  administra- 
tive reform  to  increase  revenues  of  the  crown  and  to  eliminate  a 


11 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Lima 


Tocific 
Ocean 


Santiago 


VICEROY ALTY 
OF  BRAZIL 


Atlantic 

Kjo  de  (a  Tlata  OcCdtl 


Q 


Colonial  boundary 

• 

Populated  place 

River 

Spanish  territory 

1  1 

Portuguese  territory 

Possession  disputed  by 

Britain  and  Spain 

0  400 

800  Kilometers 

0              400             800  Miles 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  A.  Curtis  Wilgus,  Historical  Atlas  of  Latin  America,  New 
York,  1967,  112. 


Figure  2.  Three  South  American  Viceroy alties,  ca.  1800 

number  of  abuses.  It  created  an  intendancy  system,  giving  exten- 
sive powers  to  highly  qualified  officials  who  were  directly  respon- 
sible to  the  king.  In  1784  Spain  established  four  intendancies  in 
Upper  Peru,  covering  the  present-day  departments  of  La  Paz, 
Cochabamba,  Potosi,  and  Chuquisaca. 

The  Spanish  crown  at  first  controlled  the  local  governments  in- 
directly but  centralized  procedures  as  time  went  on.  At  first,  Viceroy 
Francisco  de  Toledo  confirmed  the  rights  of  local  nobles  and  guaran- 
teed them  local  autonomy.  But  the  crown  eventually  came  to  em- 
ploy Spanish  officials,  corregidores  de  indios,  to  collect  tribute  and  taxes 


12 


Historical  Setting 


from  the  Indians.  Corregidores  de  indios  also  imported  goods  and  forced 
the  Indians  to  buy  them,  a  widely  abused  practice  that  proved  to 
be  an  enormous  source  of  wealth  for  these  officials  but  caused  much 
resentment  among  the  Indian  population. 

With  the  first  settlers  in  Upper  Peru  came  the  secular  and  regu- 
lar clergy  to  begin  the  conversion  of  the  Indians  to  Christianity. 
In  1552  the  first  bishopric  in  Upper  Peru  was  established  in  La 
Plata;  in  1605  La  Paz  and  Santa  Cruz  also  became  bishoprics.  In 
1623  the  Jesuits  established  the  Royal  and  Pontifical  Higher  Univer- 
sity of  San  Francisco  Xavier  of  Chuquisaca,  Upper  Peru's  first 
university. 

Indian  reaction  to  colonial  rule  and  conversion  to  Christianity 
varied.  Many  Indians  adapted  to  Spanish  ways  by  breaking  with 
their  traditions  and  actively  attempting  to  enter  the  market  econ- 
omy. They  also  used  the  courts  to  protect  their  interests,  especially 
against  new  tribute  assessments.  Others,  however,  clung  to  their 
customs  as  much  as  possible,  and  some  rebelled  against  the  white 
rulers.  Local,  mostly  uncoordinated,  rebellions  occurred  through- 
out colonial  rule.  More  than  100  revolts  occurred  in  the  eighteenth 
century  alone  in  Bolivia  and  Peru. 

Although  the  official  Incan  religion  disappeared  rapidly,  the 
Indians  continued  their  local  worship  under  the  protection  of  local 
Indian  rulers.  But  as  Christianity  influenced  the  Indians,  a  new 
folk-Catholicism  developed,  incorporating  symbols  of  the  indigenous 
religion  (see  Religion,  ch.  2).  Whereas  early  Indian  rebellions  were 
anti-Christian,  the  revolts  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century  were 
based  in  messianic  Christian  symbolism  that  was  Roman  Catho- 
lic and  anti-Spanish.  The  church  was  tolerant  of  local  Indian  reli- 
gions. In  1582,  for  example,  the  bishop  of  La  Plata  permitted  the 
Indians  to  build  a  sanctuary  for  the  dark  Virgen  de  Copacabana 
on  the  shores  of  Lake  Titicaca  (Copacabana  has  been  a  traditional 
Aymara  religious  center  ever  since). 

The  conquest  and  colonial  rule  were  traumatic  experiences  for 
the  Indians.  Easily  susceptible  to  European  diseases,  the  native 
population  decreased  rapidly.  The  situation  of  the  Indians  wors- 
ened in  the  eighteenth  century  when  Spain  demanded  higher  trib- 
ute payments  and  increased  mita  obligations  in  an  attempt  to 
improve  the  mining  output. 

These  profound  economic  and  social  changes  and  the  breakup 
of  native  culture  contributed  to  the  increasing  addiction  of  Indi- 
ans to  alcohol.  Before  the  Spanish  arrived,  the  Incas  had  consumed 
alcohol  only  during  religious  ceremonies.  Indian  use  of  the  coca 
leaf  also  expanded,  and,  according  to  one  chronicler,  at  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century  "in  Potosf  alone,  the  trade  in  coca  amounts 


13 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

to  over  half  a  million  pesos  a  year,  for  95,000  baskets  of  it  are 
consumed." 

Increasing  Indian  discontent  with  colonial  rule  sparked  the  great 
rebellion  of  Tupac  Amaru  II.  Born  Jose  Gabriel  Condorcanqui, 
this  educated,  Spanish- speaking  Indian  took  the  name  of  his  an- 
cestor, Tupac  Amaru.  During  the  1770s,  he  became  embittered 
over  the  harsh  treatment  of  the  Indians  by  the  corregidores  de  indios. 
In  November  1780,  Tupac  Amaru  II  and  his  followers  seized  and 
executed  a  particularly  cruel  corregidor  de  indios.  Although  Tupac 
Amaru  II  insisted  that  his  movement  was  reformist  and  did  not 
seek  to  overthrow  Spanish  rule,  his  demands  included  an  autono- 
mous region.  The  uprising  quickly  became  a  full-scale  revolt.  Ap- 
proximately 60,000  Indians  in  the  Peruvian  and  Bolivian  Andes 
rallied  to  the  cause.  After  scoring  some  initial  victories,  including 
defeating  a  Spanish  army  of  1 ,200  men,  Tupac  Amaru  II  was  cap- 
tured and  killed  in  May  1781;  nonetheless,  the  revolt  continued, 
primarily  in  Upper  Peru.  There,  a  supporter  of  Tupac  Amaru  II, 
the  Indian  chief  Tomas  C atari,  had  led  an  uprising  in  Potosf  dur- 
ing the  early  months  of  1780.  Catari  was  killed  by  the  Spaniards 
a  month  before  Tupac  Amaru  II.  Another  major  revolt  was  led 
by  Julian  Apasa,  a  sexton  who  took  the  names  of  the  two  rebel 
martyrs  by  calling  himself  Tupac  Catari  (also  spelled  Katari).  He 
besieged  La  Paz  for  more  than  100  days.  Spain  did  not  succeed 
in  putting  down  all  of  the  revolts  until  1783  and  then  proceeded 
to  execute  thousands  of  Indians. 

In  the  late  eighteenth  century,  a  growing  discontent  with  Span- 
ish rule  developed  among  the  criollos  (persons  of  pure  Spanish  de- 
scent born  in  the  New  World).  Criollos  began  to  assume  active  roles 
in  the  economy,  especially  in  mining  and  agricultural  production, 
and  thus  resented  the  trade  barriers  established  by  the  mercantilist 
policies  of  the  Spanish  crown.  In  addition,  criollos  were  incensed 
that  Spain  reserved  all  upper-level  administrative  positions  for  penin- 
sulares  (Spanish-born  persons  residing  in  the  New  World). 

The  Enlightenment,  with  its  emphasis  on  reason,  questioning 
of  authority  and  tradition,  and  individualistic  tendencies,  also  con- 
tributed to  criollo  discontent.  The  Inquisition  had  not  kept  the  writ- 
ings of  Niccolo  Machiavelli,  Benjamin  Franklin,  Thomas  Paine, 
Jean-Jacques  Rousseau,  John  Locke,  and  others  out  of  Spanish 
America;  their  ideas  were  often  discussed  by  criollos,  especially  those 
educated  at  the  university  in  Chuquisaca.  At  first  the  criollos  of 
Upper  Peru  were  influenced  by  the  French  Revolution,  but  they 
eventually  rejected  it  as  too  violent.  Although  Upper  Peru  was  fun- 
damentally loyal  to  Spain,  the  ideas  of  the  Enlightenment  and 


14 


A  convent  in  Daniel  Campos  Province,  Potosi  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 

independence  from  Spain  continued  to  be  discussed  by  scattered 
groups  of  radicals. 

Independence  from  Spain  and  the  Early  National 
Period,  1809-39 

Struggle  for  Independence 

The  invasion  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula  in  1807-08  by  Napoleon's 
forces  proved  critical  to  the  independence  struggle  in  South  Amer- 
ica. The  overthrow  of  the  Bourbon  Dynasty  and  the  placement  of 
Joseph  Bonaparte  on  the  Spanish  throne  tested  the  loyalty  of  the 
local  elites  in  Upper  Peru,  who  were  suddenly  confronted  with  sev- 
eral conflicting  authorities.  Most  remained  loyal  to  Spain.  Taking 
a  wait-and-see  attitude,  they  supported  the  Junta  Central  (Cen- 
tral Junta)  in  Spain,  a  government  in  the  name  of  the  abdicated 
Ferdinand  VII.  Some  liberals  eagerly  welcomed  the  reforms  of 
colonial  rule  promised  by  Joseph  Bonaparte.  Others  supported  the 
claims  of  Carlota,  Ferdinand's  sister,  who  governed  Brazil  with 
her  husband,  Prince  Regent  John  of  Portugal.  Finally,  a  number 
of  radical  criollos  wanted  independence  for  Upper  Peru. 

This  conflict  of  authority  resulted  in  a  local  power  struggle  in 
Upper  Peru  between  1808  and  1810  and  constituted  the  first  phase 
of  the  efforts  to  achieve  independence.  In  1808  the  president  of 


15 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

the  audiencia,  Ramon  Garcia  Leon  de  Pizarro,  demanded  affilia- 
tion with  the  Junta  Central.  The  conservative  judges  of  the  audien- 
cia were  influenced,  however,  by  their  autocratic  royalist  philosophy 
and  refused  to  recognize  the  authority  of  the  junta  because  they 
saw  it  as  a  product  of  a  popular  rebellion.  On  May  25,  1809,  ten- 
sions grew  when  radical  criollos,  also  refusing  to  recognize  the  junta 
because  they  wanted  independence,  took  to  the  streets.  This  revolt, 
one  of  the  first  in  Latin  America,  was  soon  put  down  by  the 
authorities. 

On  July  16,  1809,  Pedro  Domingo  Murillo  led  another  revolt 
by  criollos  and  mestizos  (those  of  mixed  European  and  Indian  an- 
cestry) in  La  Paz  and  proclaimed  an  independent  state  in  Upper 
Peru  in  the  name  of  Ferdinand  VII.  The  loyalty  to  Ferdinand  was 
a  pretense  used  to  legitimize  the  independence  movement.  By 
November  1809,  Cochabamba,  Oruro,  and  Potosi  had  joined 
Murillo.  Although  the  revolt  was  put  down  by  royalist  forces  sent 
to  La  Paz  by  the  viceroy  of  Peru  and  to  Chuquisaca  by  the  viceroy 
of  Rio  de  La  Plata,  Upper  Peru  was  never  again  completely  con- 
trolled by  Spain. 

During  the  following  seven  years,  Upper  Peru  became  the  battle- 
ground for  forces  of  the  independent  Argentine  Republic  and 
royalist  troops  from  Peru.  Although  the  royalists  repulsed  four 
Argentine  invasions,  guerrillas  controlled  most  of  the  countryside, 
where  they  formed  six  major  republiquetas,  or  zones  of  insurrection. 
In  these  zones,  local  patriotism  would  eventually  develop  into  the 
fight  for  independence. 

By  1817  Upper  Peru  was  relatively  quiet  and  under  the  control 
of  Lima.  After  1820  the  Conservative  Party  criollos  supported 
General  Pedro  Antonio  de  Olaneta,  a  Charcas  native,  who  refused 
to  accept  the  measures  by  the  Spanish  Cortes  (legislature)  to  con- 
ciliate the  colonies  after  the  Liberal  Party  revolution  in  Spain. 
Olaneta,  convinced  that  these  measures  threatened  royal  author- 
ity, refused  to  join  the  royalist  forces  or  the  rebel  armies  under  the 
command  of  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios  and  Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre 
Alcala.  Olaneta  did  not  relinquish  his  command  even  after  the  Peru- 
vian royalists  included  him  and  his  forces  in  the  capitulation  agree- 
ment following  their  defeat  in  the  Battle  of  Ayacucho  in  1824,  the 
final  battle  of  the  wars  of  independence  in  Latin  America.  Olaneta 
continued  a  quixotic  war  until  Sucre's  forces  defeated  his  forces, 
and  he  was  killed  by  his  own  men  on  April  1,  1825,  in  a  battle 
that  effectively  ended  Spanish  rule  in  Upper  Peru. 

Construction  of  Bolivia:  Bolivar,  Sucre,  and  Santa  Cruz 

In  1825  Bolivar,  first  president  of  what  became  known  as  Bolivia, 
transferred  authority  over  Upper  Peru  to  his  lieutenant,  Sucre 


16 


Historical  Setting 


(1825-28),  who  called  a  constituent  assembly  in  Chuquisaca  to  de- 
termine the  future  of  the  region.  Almost  all  delegates  wanted  an 
independent  Upper  Peru  and  rejected  attachment  to  Argentina  or 
Peru.  On  August  6,  1825,  the  assembly  adopted  a  declaration  of 
independence.  Five  days  later,  the  assembly,  hoping  to  placate 
Bolivar's  reservations  about  the  independence  of  Upper  Peru, 
resolved  to  name  the  new  nation  after  him. 

The  new  Republic  of  Bolivia,  created  in  the  territory  that  had 
formed  the  audiencia  of  Charcas,  faced  profound  problems.  The  wars 
of  independence  had  disrupted  the  economy.  The  entire  mining 
industry  was  in  decline  because  of  destruction,  flooding,  and  aban- 
donment of  mines.  Lack  of  investment  and  scarcity  of  labor  con- 
tributed to  a  sharp  drop  in  silver  production.  Agricultural 
production  was  low,  and  Bolivia  had  to  import  food,  even  staples 
consumed  by  the  Indian  population.  The  government  had  serious 
financial  difficulties  because  of  the  huge  military  expenditures  and 
debt  payments  to  Peru  as  compensation  for  the  army  of  liberation. 
All  these  problems  were  aggravated  by  the  isolation  of  the  new 
republic  from  the  outside  world  and  the  difficulties  of  securing  its 
borders. 

Bolivar  entered  La  Paz  triumphantly  on  August  8,  1825.  Dur- 
ing his  brief  rule  of  less  than  five  months,  he  issued  a  flood  of 
decrees,  resolutions,  and  orders  reflecting  his  ideas  about  govern- 
ment. He  declared  the  equality  of  all  citizens  and  abolished  the 
tribute  payments,  replacing  them  with  a  "direct  contribution"  (con- 
tribution directa)  that  amounted  to  less  than  half  of  the  previous  pay- 
ments. Bolivar  also  decreed  a  land  reform  to  distribute  land, 
preferably  to  Indians,  and  tried  to  reduce  the  influence  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  in  politics.  Most  of  his  decrees  could  not 
be  implemented  during  his  short  tenure,  but  they  were  included 
in  the  constitution  he  wrote  for  Bolivia  after  his  departure  in  January 
1826. 

Despite  his  efforts  at  reform,  Bolivar  was  outspoken  about  his 
doubts  as  to  the  ability  of  Bolivians  to  govern  themselves.  He  was 
careful  to  avoid  recognizing  Bolivia's  independence,  always  refer- 
ring to  the  country  as  Upper  Peru  and  signing  his  decrees  as  dic- 
tator of  Peru.  Only  in  January  1826,  when  he  turned  the  country 
over  to  Sucre,  did  he  promise  that  the  Peruvian  legislature  would 
approve  Bolivia's  independence. 

Sucre  succeeded  Bolivar  in  January  1826  and  continued  to  rule 
by  decree.  He  was  formally  installed  as  Bolivia's  first  elected 
president  after  the  Constituent  Assembly  convened  in  May  and 
elected  him.  During  his  three-year  rule,  the  government  tried  to 
solve  its  grave  financial  problems,  which  were  aggravated  by  the 


17 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


lack  of  foreign  credit.  Sucre  reformed  the  existing  tax  structure  in 
an  effort  to  finance  public  expenditures  and  tried  to  revive  silver 
mining  by  attracting  foreign  capital  and  technology.  In  one  of  the 
most  radical  attacks  on  the  church  anywhere  in  Latin  America, 
he  confiscated  church  wealth  in  Bolivia  and  closed  down  many 
monasteries.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Bolivia  never  recov- 
ered the  powerful  role  that  it  had  held.  Import  duties  and  taxes 
on  the  internal  movement  of  goods  were  also  important  sources 
of  state  revenue.  In  addition,  Sucre  reestablished  tribute  payments 
in  an  attempt  to  solve  the  country's  financial  crisis. 

Sucre's  attempts  at  reform  were  only  partially  successful  because 
Bolivia  lacked  the  administration  to  carry  them  out.  Many  Con- 
servative Party  criollos  turned  away  when  his  reforms  threatened 
to  challenge  the  economic  and  social  patterns  of  the  colonial  past. 
As  opposition  increased,  the  local  nationalist  elite  came  to  resent 
the  leadership  of  their  Venezuelan-born  president.  The  invasion 
of  Bolivia  by  the  Peruvian  general  Agustm  Gamarra  and  an  as- 
sassination attempt  in  April  1827  led  to  Sucre's  resignation  in  1828. 
Sucre  left  the  country  for  voluntary  exile,  convinced  that  "the  so- 
lution was  impossible."  Given  troop  command  by  Bolivar,  however, 
Sucre  routed  General  Gamarra 's  much  larger  force  (8,000)  in  a 
decisive  battle  at  Tarqui  on  February  27,  1829. 

Despite  the  fall  of  his  government,  Sucre's  policies  formed  the 
basis  for  the  ten-year  rule  of  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz  y  Calahumana 
(1829-39),  the  first  native-born  president,  who  was  sworn  into  office 
in  May  1829  after  a  series  of  short-term  rulers.  Santa  Cruz,  a  mes- 
tizo, had  a  brilliant  military  career  fighting  for  independence  in 
the  armies  of  Bolivar.  His  close  connection  with  Bolivar  had  led 
to  a  short  interlude  as  the  president  of  Peru  in  1826.  It  also  made 
him  a  strong  candidate  to  become  Bolivia's  new  president  after 
Sucre's  resignation. 

Santa  Cruz  created  a  relatively  stable  economic,  social,  and  po- 
litical order  in  Bolivia.  In  an  attempt  to  overcome  Bolivia's  isola- 
tion, Santa  Cruz  opened  the  port  of  Cobija  on  the  Pacific  Coast. 
He  also  devalued  the  silver  currency  to  finance  government  ac- 
tivities, instituted  protective  tariffs  in  support  of  the  local  cotton 
cloth  (tucuyo)  industry,  and  reduced  the  mining  tax,  thereby  in- 
creasing mining  output.  In  addition,  Santa  Cruz  codified  the  coun- 
try's laws  and  enacted  Latin  America's  first  civil  and  commercial 
codes.  The  Higher  University  of  San  Andres  in  La  Paz  was  also 
founded  during  his  rule.  Although  Santa  Cruz  approved  a  demo- 
cratic constitution,  he  ruled  virtually  as  a  dictator  and  did  not 
tolerate  opposition. 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Santa  Cruz  continued  his  political  ambitions  in  Peru  while  presi- 
dent of  Bolivia.  He  established  the  Peru-Bolivia  Confederation  in 
1836,  justifying  his  act  with  the  threat  of  Chile's  expansion  to  the 
north.  This  threat,  together  with  the  constant  turmoil  in  Peru  and 
repeated  attempts  by  Gamarra  to  invade  Bolivia,  had  made  Sucre's 
military  intervention  in  a  Peruvian  civil  war  in  1835  a  matter  of 
life  and  death  for  Bolivia.  After  winning  a  number  of  battles  in 
Peru,  Santa  Cruz  reorganized  that  country  into  two  autonomous 
states — Northern  Peru  and  Southern  Peru — and  joined  them  with 
Bolivia  in  the  Peru-Bolivia  Confederation  with  himself  as  protec- 
tor. The  potential  power  of  this  confederation  aroused  the  opposi- 
tion of  Argentina  and,  above  all,  Chile;  both  nations  declared  war 
on  the  confederation.  Although  Santa  Cruz  repelled  an  attack  by 
Argentina,  he  failed  to  stop  the  Chilean  expansion  into  the  dis- 
puted territories  on  its  northern  frontier.  His  decisive  defeat  by 
Chilean  forces  in  the  Battle  of  Yungay  in  January  1839  resulted 
in  the  breakup  of  the  confederation  and  ended  the  career  of  Bolivia's 
ablest  nineteenth-century  president.  Santa  Cruz  went  into  exile  in 
Ecuador. 

Political  Instability  and  Economic  Decline,  1839-79 

Bolivia  was  characterized  for  the  forty  years  after  1839  by  a 
chaotic  political  situation  and  a  declining  economy.  The  country 
relied  on  taxes  paid  by  the  Indians  as  its  main  source  of  income. 
Although  some  of  the  government's  leaders  during  this  period 
tried  to  reform  the  country,  most  fit  the  description  of  caudillos 
bdrbaros  (barbaric  caudillos),  a  term  used  by  Bolivian  writer  Alcides 
Arguedas  for  inept  and  corrupt  rulers. 

Santa  Cruz  was  succeeded  in  June  1839  by  General  Jose  Miguel 
de  Velasco  Franco  (1828,  1829,  and  1839-41),  who  tried  to  con- 
trol the  political  intrigues  and  maneuvering  between  the  support- 
ers and  opponents  of  Santa  Cruz.  After  failing  to  repel  yet  another 
invasion  by  Gamarra,  Velasco  was  overthrown.  Gamarra  was  killed 
in  November  1841  near  La  Paz  in  the  Battle  of  Ingavi,  in  which 
General  Jose  Ballivian  y  Segurola  defeated  the  Peruvian  forces  and 
ended  Peruvian  expansionism. 

Ballivian  y  Segurola  (1841-47)  is  remembered  for  restoring  rela- 
tive calm  to  the  nation  between  1842  and  1847.  Reversing  Santa 
Cruz's  protectionist  policies,  Ballivian  y  Segurola  encouraged  free 
trade.  He  also  promoted  the  colonization  of  the  Beni.  Nonethe- 
less, the  main  income  continued  to  come  from  the  taxes  paid  by 
rural  Indians.  These  included  not  only  a  head  tax  but  also  a  tax 
on  coca  leaves,  which  were  consumed  almost  exclusively  by  the 
Indian  population.  Although  nearly  90  percent  of  all  Bolivians  lived 


19 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

in  rural  areas  according  to  the  1846  census,  agriculture  generated 
little  revenue.  Most  haciendas  stagnated,  and  only  the  collection 
of  cinchona  bark  (for  the  production  of  quinine)  and  coca  leaves 
increased  in  the  valleys. 

After  the  overthrow  of  Ballivian  y  Segurola  in  1847,  Manuel 
Isidoro  Belzu  Humerez  (1848-55)  emerged  as  the  most  powerful 
figure  in  Bolivia.  Unlike  his  predecessors,  Belzu  sought  the  sup- 
port of  the  masses.  In  order  to  gain  the  backing  of  the  Indians, 
he  started  a  campaign  against  the  aristocratic  landowners,  seized 
their  land,  and  incited  the  Indians  to  destroy  the  homes  of  the  land- 
owners. He  also  hoped  to  get  the  support  of  the  artisans  who  had 
been  hurt  by  the  free-trade  policies  of  Ballivian  y  Segurola  by  re- 
stricting the  role  of  foreign  merchants  in  Bolivia  and  limiting 
imports. 

Belzu 's  effort  succeeded  in  one  sense  because  he  fended  off  forty- 
two  coup  attempts  during  his  rule.  "Tata"  Belzu,  as  he  was  called 
by  the  Indians  (like  the  head  of  the  ayllu  in  pre-Columbian  times), 
has  been  seen  as  the  precursor  of  Andean  populism.  Attempting 
to  stir  the  masses  in  demagogic  speeches,  Belzu  completely  alienated 
the  Bolivian  establishment  with  his  reign  of  terror.  As  efforts  to 
overthrow  him  increased,  he  resigned  in  1855  and  left  for  Europe. 

Jose  Maria  Linares  Lizarazu  (1857-61),  a  member  of  the  elite 
that  had  opposed  Belzu,  overthrew  Belzu 's  son-in-law,  General 
Jorge  Cordova  (1855-57),  and  became  the  first  civilian  president. 
Linares  reversed  Belzu' s  protective  policies  and  encouraged  free 
trade  and  foreign  investment,  mainly  from  Britain  and  Chile.  Dur- 
ing his  presidency,  mining  output  increased  because  of  technolog- 
ical innovations,  such  as  the  steam  engine,  and  the  discovery  of 
huge  nitrate  deposits  in  the  Atacama  Desert  (in  present-day  Chile). 

Although  the  mining  sector  improved,  it  failed  to  stimulate 
agricultural  production,  and  most  haciendas  continued  in  a  rela- 
tive state  of  stagnation.  This  malaise  contributed  to  the  survival 
of  campesino  communities  during  the  nineteenth  century,  despite 
repeated  assaults  on  their  common  landholdings  by  various  govern- 
ments. But  the  tax  burden  on  the  Indians  resulted  in  campesino 
revolts  in  Copacabana. 

The  overthrow  of  Linares  by  a  military  coup  in  1861  initiated 
one  of  the  most  violent  periods  in  Bolivian  history,  under  General 
Jose  Maria  de  Acha  Valiente  (1861-64).  Acha  is  remembered  for 
the  "murders  of  Yanez,"  the  massacre  of  seventy-one  Belzu  sup- 
porters (Belcistas),  including  General  Cordova,  ordered  by  Colonel 
Placido  Yanez,  the  military  commander  in  La  Paz,  in  1861. 

In  late  1864,  General  Mariano  Melgarejo  Valencia  (1864-71) 
seized  the  presidency  and  became  the  most  notorious  of  Bolivia's 


20 


Aymara  Indians  playing  wind  instruments  in  Achispaya, 
Larecaja  Province,  La  Paz  Department 
A  Tinku  ritual  fight  in  Macha,  Chayanta  Province,  Potosi  Department 
Photos  courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


21 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

caudillos.  Relying  primarily  on  the  military,  he  remained  in  power 
for  more  than  six  years  despite  his  mismanagement,  drunkenness, 
and  corruption,  as  well  as  constant  intrigues  against  him.  Hoping 
to  improve  the  economy  by  opening  up  the  country  to  foreigners, 
Melgarejo  signed  a  series  of  treaties  with  Chile  and  Peru  for  free 
trade.  In  an  1867  treaty  with  Brazil  to  secure  water  rights  to  the 
Atlantic  Ocean,  he  ceded  102,400  square  kilometers  of  territory, 
hoping  to  break  Bolivia's  isolation  (see  fig.  3). 

Melgarejo  started  a  formidable  assault  on  Indian  communal  land, 
ostensibly  in  order  to  improve  agricultural  production.  He  decreed 
that  the  Indians  were  the  owners  of  their  parcels  only  if  they  paid 
a  large  fee  within  sixty  days.  If  they  failed  to  do  so,  their  land  would 
be  auctioned  off.  The  resulting  sales  increased  the  size  of  the  ha- 
ciendas, and  massive  Indian  uprisings  against  his  rule  became  more 
violent.  Opposition  against  Melgarejo  mounted  in  all  sectors  of  so- 
ciety as  the  term  melgarejismo  came  to  signify  amoral  militarism; 
in  1871  he  was  overthrown  and  later  murdered  in  Lima. 

Agustm  Morales  Hernandez  (1871-72)  continued  Melgarejo' s 
ruling  style,  despite  his  promise  of  "more  liberty  and  less  govern- 
ment."  Morales  was  assassinated,  however,  by  a  nephew  in  1873. 
Two  presidents  with  high  integrity,  Tomas  Frias  Ametller  (1872-73) 
and  General  Adolfo  Ballivian  (1873-74),  did  not  last  long  because 
of  constant  intrigues.  Under  their  rule,  Bolivia  opened  the  port 
of  Mollendo  in  Peru,  which  reduced  the  country's  isolation  by  con- 
necting the  Altiplano  by  train  and  steamship  on  Lake  Titicaca  to 
the  Pacific  Coast.  But  in  1876  Hilarion  Daza  Groselle  (1876-79) 
seized  power  and  became  another  military  caudillo,  as  brutal  and 
incompetent  as  Melgarejo.  He  faced  many  insurrections,  a  mas- 
sive demonstration  by  artisans  in  Sucre,  and  widespread  opposi- 
tion. Hoping  to  gather  the  support  of  nationalist  Bolivians  to 
strengthen  his  internal  position,  Daza  involved  his  country  in  the 
disastrous  War  of  the  Pacific. 

From  the  War  of  the  Pacific  to  the  Chaco  War, 
1879-1935 

War  of  the  Pacific 

The  War  of  the  Pacific  resulted  from  a  dispute  between  Bolivia 
and  Chile  over  sovereignty  of  the  mineral-rich  coastal  area  of  the 
Atacama  Desert.  In  the  mid- 1860s,  the  two  nations  had  come  to 
the  brink  of  war  because  of  disagreement  over  their  boundaries. 
In  1874  Chile  agreed  to  fix  the  border  at  24°  south  latitude  in  return 
for  Bolivia's  promise  not  to  increase  taxes  on  Chilean  nitrate 
enterprises  for  twenty-five  years.  But  in  1878,  Daza  imposed  a  slight 


22 


Historical  Setting 


increase  on  export  taxes.  Chile  immediately  objected,  and  when 
Daza  refused  to  revoke  the  tax  hike,  Chile  landed  troops  on  Febru- 
ary 14,  1879.  Bolivia,  in  alliance  with  Peru,  declared  war  on  Chile 
on  March  1,  but  Bolivia's  troops  in  the  coastal  territory  were  easily 
defeated,  in  part  because  of  Daza's  military  incompetence.  Driven 
from  office  by  a  popular  revolt,  Daza  fled  to  Europe  with  a  sizable 
portion  of  Bolivia's  treasury.  The  attempt  of  General  Narcisco 
Campero  Leyes  (1880-84)  to  come  to  the  aid  of  Peru,  Bolivia's 
ally  in  the  war,  was  unsuccessful,  and  the  combined  armies  were 
defeated  by  Chile  in  1880.  Having  lost  its  entire  coastal  territory, 
Bolivia  withdrew  from  the  war.  It  ceded  the  territory  officially  to 
Chile  twenty-four  years  later,  in  1904,  under  the  Treaty  of  Peace 
and  Friendship. 

The  War  of  the  Pacific  was  a  turning  point  in  Bolivian  history. 
Bolivian  politicians  were  able  to  rally  Bolivians  by  blaming  the  war 
on  Chilean  aggression.  Bolivian  writers  were  convinced  that  Chile's 
victory  would  help  Bolivia  to  overcome  its  backwardness  because 
the  defeat  strengthened  the  "national  soul."  Even  today,  Bolivia 
has  not  relinquished  the  hope  of  regaining  an  outlet  to  the  Pacific 
Ocean. 

After  the  war,  a  vigorous  debate  among  civilian  elites  spawned 
the  development  of  new  political  parties.  Mining  entrepreneurs, 
who  had  become  the  most  important  economic  group  in  the  coun- 
try because  of  increasing  production,  created  the  Conservative  Party 
(Partido  Conservador).  Conservatives  favored  reaching  a  quick 
peace  settlement  with  Chile  that  would  include  indemnification  for 
lost  territories  and  enable  Bolivia  to  construct  a  railroad  for  min- 
ing exports.  The  Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal)  denounced  the 
pacifism  of  the  Conservatives.  It  also  resented  the  economic  de- 
pendence of  the  mining  sector  on  Chilean  and  British  capital  and 
hoped  to  attract  United  States  investment.  Despite  these  differences, 
both  parties  were  primarily  interested  in  political  and  economic 
modernization,  and  their  ideological  outiooks  were  similar.  Civilian 
politicians  reorganized,  reequipped,  and  professionalized  the  dis- 
credited armed  forces  and  tried  to  subject  them  to  civilian  control. 
Still,  both  Conservatives  and  Liberals  initially  supported  military 
candidates  for  the  presidency.  The  governments  in  power  from 
1880  to  1920 — elected  by  a  small,  literate,  and  Spanish-speaking 
electorate — brought  Bolivia  its  first  relative  political  stability  and 
prosperity. 

Reconstruction  and  the  Rule  of  the  Conservatives 

The  Conservatives  ruled  Bolivia  from  1880  until  1899.  General 
Campero  completed  his  legal  term  in  office  and  presided  over  free 


23 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


BRAZIL 


PERU 


Bolivia's  present-day 

boundary 
Boundary  of 
territorial  losses 
®    National  capital 
1       |  Ceded  to  Brazil,  1867 
I  .  *  J  Ceded  to  Chile,  1904 
HH  Ceded  to  Brazil,  1903 

Ceded  to  Paraguay, 
1938 


A 


CHILE 


BRAZIL 


South 
(Pacific 
Ocean 


ARGENTINA 


Figure  3.  Major  Bolivian  Territorial  Losses,  1867-1938 


elections  in  1884  that  brought  to  power  Gregorio  Pacheco  Leyes 
(1884-88),  one  of  Bolivia's  most  important  mine  owners.  After 
Pachecho's  term,  however,  fraudulent  elections  resulted  repeatedly 
in  Liberal  revolts.  Although  the  Liberal  Party  was  allowed  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  National  Congress  (hereafter,  Congress),  it  had  no 
chance  to  win  a  presidential  election. 

Under  the  Conservatives,  the  high  world  price  of  silver  and  in- 
creased production  of  copper,  lead,  zinc,  and  tin  combined  to  cre- 
ate a  period  of  relative  prosperity.  The  Conservative  governments 
encouraged  the  mining  industry  through  the  development  of  a  rail 
network  to  the  Chilean  coast.  The  growth  of  commercial  agricul- 
ture, such  as  the  development  of  Bolivia's  natural  rubber  resources, 
also  contributed  to  an  apparently  stronger  economy.  Agricultural 
production  in  the  highlands  increased  as  the  haciendas  expanded 
in  some  regions. 

24 


Historical  Setting 


Aniceto  Arce  Ruiz  (1888-92),  although  elected  legally,  was  an 
autocrat  who  managed  to  stay  in  power  only  through  repression. 
His  main  economic  accomplishment  was  to  extend  the  Antofagasta- 
Calama  Railroad  to  Oruro.  The  extension  of  the  railroad  drasti- 
cally reduced  the  cost  of  transporting  minerals  to  the  Pacific  Coast. 
Economic  growth  was  skewed,  however,  as  railroads  that  were  built 
to  export  minerals  started  to  bring  imported  wheat  from  Chile;  in 
1890  Chilean  wheat  was  cheaper  in  La  Paz  than  wheat  from 
Cochabamba.  The  open  economy  also  hurt  local  industry.  The  ex- 
pansion of  the  haciendas  at  the  expense  of  the  free  Indian  commu- 
nities resulted  in  numerous  uprisings  and  forced  many  Indians  to 
work  for  their  landlords  or  to  migrate  to  the  cities.  As  a  result  of 
this  migration,  the  census  of  1900  noted  an  increase  of  the  mestizo 
population,  but  Bolivia  remained  a  predominantly  Indian  and  rural 
nation,  in  which  the  Spanish-speaking  minority  continued  to  ex- 
clude the  Indians. 

The  Liberal  Party  and  the  Rise  of  Tin 

In  1899  the  Liberal  Party  overthrew  the  Conservatives  in  the 
"Federal  Revolution."  Although  the  Liberals  resented  the  long 
rule  of  the  Conservatives,  the  main  reasons  for  the  revolt  were 
regionalism  and  federalism.  The  Liberal  Party  drew  most  of  its 
support  from  the  tin-mining  entrepreneurs  in  and  around  La  Paz, 
whereas  Conservative  governments  had  ruled  with  an  eye  on  the 
interests  of  the  silver  mine  owners  and  great  landowners  in  Potosi 
and  Sucre.  The  immediate  cause  of  the  conflict  was  the  Liberal 
demand  to  move  the  capital  from  Sucre  to  the  more  developed  La 
Paz. 

The  Federal  Revolution  differed  from  previous  revolts  in  Bolivia 
in  that  Indian  peasants  actively  participated  in  the  fighting.  Indian 
discontent  had  increased  because  of  the  massive  assault  on  their 
communal  landholdings.  The  campesinos  supported  the  Liberal 
leader,  Jose  Manuel  Pando,  when  he  promised  to  improve  their 
situation. 

Pando,  however,  reneged  on  his  promises  and  allowed  the  as- 
sault on  Indian  land  to  continue.  The  government  suppressed  a 
series  of  campesino  uprisings  and  executed  the  leaders.  One  of  these 
revolts,  led  by  Pablo  Zarate  Willka,  was  one  of  the  largest  Indian 
rebellions  in  the  history  of  the  republic.  It  frightened  whites  and 
mestizos,  who  once  again  successfully  isolated  the  Indians  from  na- 
tional life. 

Like  their  Conservative  predecessors,  the  Liberals  controlled 
the  presidential  elections  but  left  the  elections  for  Congress  rela- 
tively free.  They  also  continued  to  professionalize  the  Bolivian 


25 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

military,  with  the  aid  of  a  German  military  mission  (see  Evolution 
of  the  Military  Role  in  Society  and  Government,  ch.  5).  President 
Ismael  Montes  Gamboa  (1904-09  and  1913-17)  dominated  the 
Liberal  era. 

Liberal  administrations  gave  priority  to  the  settlement  of  border 
disputes.  Bolivia's  inability  to  protect  and  integrate  the  frontier 
with  Brazil  had  led  to  the  encroachment  of  Brazilian  rubber 
gatherers.  In  1900  they  began  an  active  secessionist  movement  in 
the  eastern  province  of  Acre  and  after  three  years  of  small-scale 
fighting  won  annexation  by  Brazil.  In  the  Treaty  of  Petropolis  in 
1903,  Bolivia  relinquished  its  claims  to  191,000  square  kilometers 
of  Acre  territory  in  return  for  two  areas  on  the  Madeira  and  the 
Paraguay  rivers  totaling  5,200  square  kilometers,  the  equivalent 
of  US$10  million,  and  the  use  of  a  railroad  to  be  constructed  around 
the  rapids  of  the  Madeira  in  Brazilian  territory.  In  1904  Bolivia 
finally  concluded  a  peace  treaty  with  Chile  under  which  it  officially 
ceded  Bolivia's  former  territory  on  the  coast  in  return  for  indem- 
nification of  US$8.5  million,  less  the  value  of  the  Bolivian  section 
of  a  new  railroad  that  Chile  would  construct  from  La  Paz  to  the 
Pacific  Coast  at  Arica.  The  payment  was  used  to  expand  the  trans- 
portation system  in  Bolivia.  By  1920  most  major  Bolivian  cities 
were  connected  by  rail. 

Liberal  governments  also  changed  the  seat  of  government  and 
the  nature  of  church-state  relations.  The  presidency  and  Congress 
were  moved  to  La  Paz,  which  became  the  de  facto  capital,  but  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  remained  in  Sucre.  Liberal  presidents 
canceled  the  special  privileges  officially  granted  to  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  In  1905  they  legalized  public  worship  by  other 
faiths,  and  in  1911  they  made  civil  marriage  a  requirement. 

Perhaps  the  most  significant  development  of  the  Liberal  era  was 
the  dramatic  rise  of  Bolivian  tin  production.  Since  the  colonial 
period,  tin  had  been  mined  in  the  Potosi  region;  nonetheless,  Bolivia 
historically  lacked  the  transportation  system  necessary  to  ship  large 
quantities  of  tin  to  European  markets.  The  extension  of  the  rail 
link  to  Oruro  in  the  1890s,  however,  made  tin  mining  a  highly 
profitable  business.  The  decline  in  European  tin  production  also 
contributed  to  the  Bolivian  tin  boom  at  the  beginning  of  the  twen- 
tieth century.  With  the  development  of  huge  mines  in  southern 
Oruro  and  northern  Potosi,  La  Paz  eclipsed  Potosi  as  the  mining 
industry's  financial  and  service  center. 

Tin  production  in  Bolivia  came  to  be  concentrated  in  the  hands 
of  Bolivian  nationals,  although  the  regimes  encouraged  foreign  in- 
vestment. At  first,  foreign  interests  and  Bolivians  with  foreign  as- 
sociations took  the  major  share.  This  changed,  however,  when 


26 


Historical  Setting 


Bolivian  tin-mining  entrepreneurs  realized  that  smelters  in  com- 
peting countries  depended  on  Bolivian  tin.  Simon  Patino  was  the 
most  successful  of  these  tin  magnates.  Of  poor  mestizo  background, 
he  started  as  a  mining  apprentice.  By  1924  he  owned  50  percent 
of  the  national  production  and  controlled  the  European  refining 
of  Bolivian  tin.  Although  Patino  lived  permanently  abroad  by  the 
early  1920s,  the  two  other  leading  tin-mining  entrepreneurs,  Carlos 
Aramayo  and  Mauricio  Hochschild,  resided  primarily  in  Bolivia. 

Because  taxes  and  fees  from  tin  production  were  critically  im- 
portant to  national  revenues,  Patino,  Aramayo,  and  Hochschild 
exercised  considerable  influence  over  government  policy.  Unlike 
the  silver-mining  entrepreneurs  of  the  Conservative  period,  the  tin- 
mining  magnates  did  not  directly  intervene  in  politics  but  employed 
politicians  and  lawyers — known  as  the  rosea  (see  Glossary) — to 
represent  their  interests. 

The  tin  boom  also  contributed  to  increased  social  tensions.  Indian 
peasants,  who  provided  most  of  the  labor  for  the  mines,  moved 
from  their  rural  communities  to  the  rapidly  growing  mining  towns, 
where  they  lived  and  worked  in  precarious  situations.  Bolivia's  First 
National  Congress  of  Workers  met  in  La  Paz  in  1912,  and  in  the 
following  years  the  mining  centers  witnessed  an  increasing  num- 
ber of  strikes. 

Liberal  governments  at  first  did  not  face  any  serious  opposition 
because  the  Conservative  Party  remained  weak  after  its  overthrow 
in  1899.  By  1914,  however,  opposition  to  political  abuses  and  the 
loss  of  national  territory  led  to  the  formation  of  the  Republican 
Party  (Partido  Republicano).  Republican  support  increased  when 
mineral  exports  declined  because  of  the  crisis  in  international  trade 
before  World  War  I,  and  agricultural  production  decreased  because 
of  severe  droughts.  In  1917  the  Republicans  were  defeated  at  the 
polls  when  Jose  Gutierrez  Guerra  (1917-20),  the  last  Liberal  presi- 
dent, was  elected.  But  the  long  rule  of  the  Liberals,  one  of  the  most 
stable  periods  in  Bolivian  history,  ended  when  the  Republicans 
seized  the  presidency  in  a  bloodless  coup  in  1920. 

The  Republican  Party  and  the  Great  Depression 

The  advent  of  the  Republican  Party  did  not  at  first  indicate  any 
profound  change  in  Bolivian  politics.  Fernando  Diez  de  Medina, 
a  Bolivian  writer,  commented  on  the  change:  "Twenty  years  of 
privilege  for  one  group  ends,  and  ten  years  of  privilege  for  another 
begins."  The  1920s,  however,  was  also  a  period  of  political  change. 
New  parties  emerged  as  the  Republican  Party  split  into  several  fac- 
tions. One  major  opposing  branch  was  led  by  Bautista  Saavedra 
Mallea,  who  had  the  support  of  the  urban  middle  class,  and  the 


27 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

other  was  led  by  the  more  conservative  Daniel  Salamanca  Urey 
(1931-34).  A  number  of  minor  political  parties  influenced  by  so- 
cialist or  Marxist  thought  also  emerged. 

During  Republican  rule,  the  Bolivian  economy  underwent  a  pro- 
found change.  Tin  prices  started  to  decline  in  the  1920s.  After  peak- 
ing in  1929,  tin  production  declined  dramatically  as  the  Great 
Depression  nearly  destroyed  the  international  tin  market.  This 
decline  was  also  caused  by  the  decrease  in  the  tin  content  of  ore 
and  the  end  of  new  investment  in  the  mines  in  Bolivia.  As  eco- 
nomic growth  slowed,  Republican  presidents  relied  on  foreign  loans. 
Saavedra  (1920-25)  and  Hernando  Siles  Reyes  (1926-30)  borrowed 
heavily  in  the  United  States  to  finance  major  development  projects, 
despite  opposition  by  Bolivian  nationalists  to  the  favorable  terms 
for  the  lender.  The  so-called  Nicolaus  loan  aroused  national  in- 
dignation because  it  gave  the  United  States  control  over  Bolivia's 
tax  collections  in  return  for  a  private  banking  loan  of  US$33  million. 

During  the  1920s,  Bolivia  faced  growing  social  turmoil.  Labor 
unrest,  such  as  the  miners'  strike  in  Uncia  in  1923,  was  brutally 
suppressed.  But  the  unrest  reached  new  heights  of  violence  after 
the  drastic  reduction  of  the  work  force  during  the  Great  Depres- 
sion. Indian  peasants  continued  to  rebel  in  the  countryside,  although 
they  had  been  disarmed  and  their  leaders  had  been  executed  after 
participating  in  the  overthrow  of  the  Conservative  Party  in  1899. 
Now,  for  the  first  time,  the  Indians  found  support  for  their  cause 
among  the  elite.  Gustavo  Navarro,  who  took  the  name  Tristan 
Marof,  was  Bolivia's  most  important  Indianist.  He  saw  in  the  Inca 
past  the  first  successful  socialism  and  the  model  to  solve  rural 
problems.  As  Indian  uprisings  continued  during  Liberal  rule,  Siles 
Reyes  promised  to  improve  their  situation  and  organized  the  Na- 
tional Crusade  in  Favor  of  Indians. 

The  social  legislation  of  the  Republican  governments  was  weak, 
however,  because  neither  Saavedra  nor  Siles  Reyes  wanted  to 
challenge  the  rosea.  Siles  Reyes's  four  years  of  inconsistent  rule  and 
unfulfilled  promises  of  radical  changes  frustrated  workers  and 
students.  In  1930  he  was  overthrown  when  he  tried  to  bypass  the 
constitutional  provision  forbidding  reelection  by  resigning  in  order 
to  run  again.  A  military  junta  ruled  until  March  1931,  when 
Salamanca  (1931-34)  was  elected  as  a  coalition  candidate. 

Although  he  was  an  esteemed  economist  before  taking  office, 
Salamanca  was  unable  to  suppress  social  unrest  and  to  solve  the 
severe  economic  problems  caused  by  the  Great  Depression.  Criti- 
cism of  his  administration  mounted  in  all  sectors  of  Bolivian  soci- 
ety. Initially  reluctant  to  enter  into  an  armed  conflict  with  Paraguay, 


28 


Historical  Setting 


he  nevertheless  led  Bolivia  into  war,  a  move  supported  by  the  mili- 
tary and  traditional  groups. 

The  Chaco  War 

The  origin  of  the  war  was  a  border  dispute  between  Bolivia  and 
Paraguay  over  the  Chaco.  This  vast  area  was  largely  undeveloped 
except  for  some  minor  oil  discoveries  by  Standard  Oil  in  Bolivia 
and  Royal  Dutch  Shell  in  Paraguay.  The  Chaco,  which  Bolivia 
traditionally  regarded  as  a  province  (Gran  Chaco),  became  more 
significant  to  Bolivia  after  the  latter  lost  its  Pacific  Ocean  outlet 
to  Chile.  Bolivia  hoped  to  gain  access  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean  with 
an  oil  pipeline  across  the  Chaco  to  the  Paraguay  River.  Despite 
mediation  attempts  by  various  countries,  the  increased  number  of 
border  incidents  led  the  military  high  commands  of  Bolivia  and 
Paraguay  to  believe  in  the  inevitability  of  war. 

Salamanca  used  one  of  the  border  incidents  to  break  diplomatic 
relations  with  Paraguay  and  increase  Bolivia's  military  budget,  even 
though  the  country  had  severe  economic  problems.  Convinced  that 
Bolivia's  better-equipped,  German- trained  troops,  which  outnum- 
bered the  Paraguayan  army,  could  win  the  war,  Salamanca  went 
to  war  in  1932. 

The  war  raged  for  the  next  three  years.  The  Bolivians  were 
defeated  in  all  major  battles,  and  by  the  end  of  1934  they  had  been 
driven  back  482  kilometers  from  their  original  positions  deep  in 
the  Chaco  to  the  foothills  of  the  Andes.  Serious  strategic  errors, 
poor  intelligence,  and  logistical  problems  in  reaching  the  distant 
battle  lines  contributed  to  the  losses.  In  addition,  the  morale  of 
the  Bolivian  troops  was  low,  and  the  highland  Indians  could  not 
adapt  to  the  extreme  climate  in  the  low-lying  Chaco.  Despite  the 
high  command's  decision  to  end  the  war,  Salamanca  was  deter- 
mined to  continue  at  all  costs.  In  1934,  when  he  traveled  to  the 
Chaco  to  take  command  of  the  war,  Salamanca  was  arrested  by 
the  high  command  and  forced  to  resign.  His  vice  president,  Jose 
Luis  Tejada  Sorzano,  who  was  known  to  favor  peace,  was  accepted 
as  president  (1934-36). 

Salamanca's  overthrow  was  a  turning  point  in  the  Chaco  War. 
The  Paraguayan  troops  were  stopped  by  new,  more  capable 
Bolivian  officers,  who  fought  closer  to  Bolivian  supply  lines.  On 
June  14,  1935,  a  commission  of  neutral  nations  (Argentina,  Brazil, 
Chile,  Colombia,  Peru,  and  the  United  States)  declared  an  ar- 
mistice; a  definite  settlement  was  finally  reached  in  1938.  Bolivia 
lost  the  Chaco  but  retained  the  petroleum  fields,  which  Paraguay 
had  failed  to  reach.  Both  countries  suffered  heavy  losses  in  the  war. 


29 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

In  Bolivia  alone,  an  estimated  65,000  people  were  killed  and 
35,000  wounded  or  captured  out  of  a  population  of  just  under  3 
million. 

The  humiliating  disaster  of  the  Chaco  War  had  a  profound  im- 
pact in  Bolivia,  where  it  was  seen  as  dividing  the  history  of  the 
twentieth  century  "like  a  knife."  The  traditional  oligarchy  was  dis- 
credited because  of  its  inept  civilian  and  military  leadership  in  the 
war.  Unable  to  deal  with  growing  criticism,  its  members  blamed 
the  loss  of  the  war  on  the  low  potential  of  the  Bolivians  and  saw 
the  earlier  pessimistic  assessment  in  Arguedas's  famous  novel  Pueblo 
Enfermo  (A  Sick  People)  confirmed. 

After  the  war,  a  group  of  middle-class  professionals,  writers,  and 
young  officers  questioned  the  traditional  leadership.  This  group, 
which  came  to  be  known  as  the  "Chaco  Generation,"  searched 
for  new  ways  to  deal  with  the  nation's  problems.  It  resented  the 
service  of  the  rosea  on  behalf  of  the  tin-mining  entrepreneurs  and 
criticized  Standard  Oil,  which  had  delivered  oil  to  Paraguay  clan- 
destinely through  Argentine  intermediaries  during  the  war.  The 
Chaco  Generation  was  convinced  of  the  need  for  social  change. 
Gustavo  Navarro,  now  more  radical  than  during  the  1920s,  raised 
the  famous  slogan  "land  to  the  Indians,  mines  to  the  state."  The 
military,  which  came  to  power  in  1936,  tried  to  bring  about  change 
with  popular  support. 

Prelude  to  Revolution,  1935-52 
Radical  Military  Government 

On  May  17,  1936,  Colonel  David  Toro  Ruilova  (1936-37)  over- 
threw Tejada  in  a  military  coup.  Because  the  officer  corps  wanted 
to  avoid  a  civilian  investigation  of  the  military's  wartime  leader- 
ship, military  backing  for  the  coup  came  from  all  ranks.  The  main 
backers,  however,  were  a  group  of  younger  officers  who  wanted 
to  bring  profound  change  to  Bolivia.  Toro,  the  leader  of  this  group, 
hoped  to  reform  the  country  from  the  top  down.  His  program  of 
"military  socialism"  included  social  and  economic  justice  and 
government  control  over  natural  resources.  He  also  planned  to  set 
up  a  corporate- style  political  system  to  replace  the  democratic  sys- 
tem established  in  1825. 

Toro  attempted  to  get  civilian  support  with  far-reaching  social 
legislation  and  nominated  a  print  worker  as  the  first  labor  secre- 
tary in  Bolivia.  He  also  nationalized  the  holdings  of  Standard  Oil 
without  compensation  and  called  for  the  convening  of  a  constitu- 
tional congress  that  would  include  the  traditional  parties,  as  well 
as  new  reformist  groups  and  the  labor  movement. 


30 


Historical  Setting 


Toro  was  unable,  however,  to  enlist  lasting  popular  support.  A 
group  of  more  radical  officers  resented  his  reluctance  to  challenge 
the  rosea,  and  they  supported  a  coup  by  Colonel  German  Busch 
Becerra  (1937-39)  in  1937.  A  new  constitution,  promulgated  in 
1938,  stressed  the  primacy  of  the  common  good  over  private 
property  and  favored  government  intervention  in  social  and  eco- 
nomic relations.  It  also  legally  recognized  the  Indian  communi- 
ties and  included  a  labor  code.  In  1939  Busch  challenged  the 
interests  of  the  mine  owners  for  the  first  time  by  issuing  a  decree 
that  would  prevent  the  mining  companies  from  removing  capital 
from  the  country.  None  of  his  policies,  however,  resulted  in  sig- 
nificant popular  and  military  support,  and  they  completely  alienated 
the  conservative  forces.  Frustrated  by  his  inability  to  bring  about 
change,  Busch  committed  suicide  in  1939. 

Despite  the  weakness  of  the  Toro  and  Busch  regimes,  their  poli- 
cies had  a  profound  impact  on  Bolivia.  Reformist  decrees  raised 
expectations  among  the  middle  class,  but  when  they  failed  to  be 
implemented,  they  contributed  to  the  growth  of  the  left.  The  con- 
stitutional convention  gave  the  new  forces  for  the  first  time  a 
nationwide  platform  and  the  possibility  of  forming  alliances.  The 
military  socialist  regimes  also  prompted  the  conservatives  to  join 
forces  to  stem  the  growth  of  the  left. 

The  Rise  of  New  Political  Groups 

After  a  few  months  under  the  provisional  presidency  of  General 
Carlos  Quintanilla  Quiroga  (1939-40),  the  chief  of  staff  during  the 
Busch  regime,  the  government  changed  hands  again.  General 
Enrique  Peharanda  Castillo  (1940-43)  was  elected  president  in  the 
spring  of  1940.  Pefiaranda's  support  came  from  the  traditional  par- 
ties, the  Liberals,  and  the  two  wings  of  the  Republicans,  who  had 
formed  a  concordancia  to  stem  the  growth  of  the  movement  toward 
reform. 

The  trend  toward  reform,  however,  could  not  be  halted,  and 
a  number  of  new  groups  gained  control  of  Congress  during 
Pefiaranda's  presidency.  These  groups,  although  very  different  in 
their  ideological  outlooks,  agreed  on  the  need  to  change  the  status 
quo.  They  included  the  Trotskyite  Revolutionary  Workers  Party 
(Partido  Obrero  Revolucionario — POR),  which  had  already  been 
formed  in  1934,  as  well  as  the  Bolivian  Socialist  Falange  (Falange 
Socialista  Boliviana — FSB),  founded  in  1937  and  patterned  on  the 
Spanish  model.  The  Leftist  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido  de 
Izquierda  Revolucionaria — PIR)  was  founded  in  1940  by  a  coali- 
tion of  radical  Marxist  groups. 


31 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  most  important  opposition  to  the  concordancia  came  from  the 
Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista 
Revolucionario — MNR).  The  first  party  with  widespread  support 
in  Bolivian  history,  the  MNR  had  a  membership  that  included  in- 
tellectuals and  both  white-collar  and  blue-collar  workers.  It  was 
founded  in  1941  by  a  small  group  of  intellectual  dissidents  from 
the  middle  and  upper  classes  and  represented  persons  from  a  wide 
range  of  political  persuasions  who  were  united  by  their  discontent 
with  the  status  quo.  Among  its  leaders  were  Victor  Paz  Estens- 
soro, a  professor  of  economics;  Hernan  Siles  Zuazo,  the  son  of 
former  President  Siles  Reyes;  and  several  influential  writers.  The 
party's  program  included  nationalization  of  all  of  Bolivia's  natural 
resources  and  far-reaching  social  reforms.  Its  anti-Semitic  state- 
ments resulted  not  only  in  the  imprisonment  of  MNR  leaders  but 
also  in  charges  by  the  United  States  government  that  MNR  was 
under  the  influence  of  Nazi  fascism. 

As  the  leader  of  the  congressional  opposition,  the  MNR 
denounced  Penaranda's  close  cooperation  with  the  United  States 
and  was  especially  critical  of  his  agreement  to  compensate  Stan- 
dard Oil  for  its  nationalized  holdings.  The  MNR  members  of  Con- 
gress also  began  an  investigation  of  the  massacre  of  striking  miners 
and  their  families  by  government  troops  at  one  of  the  Patino  mines 
in  Catavi  in  1942.  MNR  influence  with  the  miners  increased  when 
Paz  Estenssoro  led  the  congressional  interrogation  of  government 
ministers. 

The  MNR  had  contacts  with  reformist  military  officers,  who  were 
organized  in  a  secret  military  lodge  named  the  Fatherland's  Cause 
(Razon  de  Patria — Radepa).  Radepa  was  founded  in  1934  by 
Bolivian  prisoners  of  war  in  Paraguay.  It  sought  mass  support, 
backed  military  intervention  in  politics,  and  hoped  to  prevent 
excessive  foreign  control  over  Bolivia's  natural  resources. 

In  December  1943,  the  Radepa-MNR  alliance  overthrew  the 
Penaranda  regime.  Major  Gualberto  Villarroel  Lopez  (1943- 
46)  became  president,  and  three  MNR  members,  including  Paz 
Estenssoro,  joined  his  cabinet.  The  MNR  ministers  resigned, 
however,  when  the  United  States  refused  recognition,  repeating 
its  charge  of  ties  between  the  MNR  and  Nazi  Germany.  The 
ministers  returned  to  their  posts  in  1944,  after  the  party  had  won 
a  majority  in  the  election  and  the  United  States  had  recognized 
the  government.  Villarroel 's  government  emphasized  continuity 
with  the  reformist  regimes  of  Toro  and  Busch.  Paz  Estenssoro,  who 
served  as  minister  of  finance,  hoped  to  get  popular  support  with 
a  budget  that  emphasized  social  spending  over  economic  develop- 
ment. But  the  salary  increase  for  miners  did  not  bring  about  their 


32 


Victor  Paz  Estenssoro 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Bolivia, 
Washington 


consistent  backing  of  the  government  and  only  managed  to 
strengthen  the  ties  between  the  MNR  and  miners.  The  Villarroel 
government  also  tried  for  the  first  time  to  get  the  support  of  the 
campesinos.  In  1945  it  created  the  National  Indigenous  Congress 
to  discuss  the  problems  in  the  countryside  and  to  improve  the  sit- 
uation of  the  peasants.  However,  most  of  the  social  legislation,  such 
as  the  abolition  of  the  labor  obligation  of  the  campesinos  to  their 
landlords,  was  never  put  in  effect. 

Villarroel  was  overthrown  in  1946.  He  had  been  unable  to  or- 
ganize popular  support  and  faced  opposition  from  conservative 
groups  and  increasing  political  terrorism  that  included  murders  of 
the  government's  opponents.  Rivalry  between  the  MNR  and  the 
military  in  the  governing  coalition  also  contributed  to  his  down- 
fall. In  1946  mobs  of  students,  teachers,  and  workers  seized  arms 
from  the  arsenal  and  moved  to  the  presidential  palace.  They  cap- 
tured and  shot  Villarroel  and  suspended  his  body  from  a  lamppost 
in  the  main  square,  while  the  army  remained  aloof  in  the  barracks. 

The  "Sexenio,"  1946-52 

The  six  years  preceding  the  1952  Revolution  are  known  as  the 
sexenio.  During  this  period,  members  of  the  Conservative  Party  tried 
to  stem  the  growth  of  the  left,  but  they  ultimately  failed  because 
they  could  not  halt  the  economic  decline  and  control  the  growing 
social  unrest.  Enrique  Hertzog  Garaizabal  (1947-49),  who  was 


33 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

elected  president  in  1947  after  the  interim  rule  of  a  provisional  junta, 
formed  a  coalition  cabinet  that  included  not  only  the  concordancia 
but  also  the  PIR.  He  hoped  to  retain  the  backing  of  the  Conserva- 
tive Party  forces  by  not  increasing  taxes,  but  he  tried  also  to  gain 
labor  support,  relying  on  the  PIR  to  mobilize  the  workers. 

The  labor  sector  did  not  cooperate  with  the  government, 
however,  and  the  PIR  became  discredited  because  of  its  alliance 
with  the  conservative  forces.  In  1946  the  workers  endorsed  the  The- 
sis of  Pulacayo,  in  which  the  miners  called  for  permanent  revolu- 
tion and  violent  armed  struggle  for  the  working  class.  As  the  labor 
sector  became  more  radical,  the  government  resorted  more  and 
more  to  oppression,  and  confrontations  increased.  The  dismissal 
of  7,000  miners  and  the  brutal  suppression  of  yet  another  uprising 
in  Catavi  in  1949  made  any  cooperation  between  the  government 
and  the  workers  impossible. 

The  MNR  emerged  as  the  dominant  opposition  group.  Although 
most  of  its  leaders,  including  Paz  Estenssoro,  were  in  exile  in  Argen- 
tina, the  party  continued  to  be  represented  in  the  Chamber  of 
Deputies  and  the  Senate.  During  the  sexenio,  the  party,  despite  its 
predominantly  middle-class  background,  repeatedly  took  the  side 
of  the  workers  and  adopted  their  ideology.  The  MNR  also  came 
to  support  the  defense  of  Indian  rights,  as  violence  in  the  country- 
side increased  when  the  promises  given  at  the  National  Indigenous 
Congress  were  not  fulfilled. 

The  MNR's  attempts  to  gain  power  during  the  sexenio  were  un- 
successful. Its  1949  coup  attempt  failed,  although  with  the  support 
of  the  workers  and  some  military  officers  it  succeeded  in  gaining 
control  of  most  major  cities  except  La  Paz.  The  MNR's  attempt 
to  gain  power  by  legal  means  in  1951  also  failed.  In  the  presiden- 
tial election  of  May  1951,  the  MNR's  Paz  Estenssoro,  who  re- 
mained in  exile  in  Argentina,  ran  for  president  and  Siles  Zuazo 
ran  for  vice  president,  both  on  a  platform  of  nationalization  and 
land  reform.  With  the  support  of  the  POR  and  the  newly  formed 
Bolivian  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Boliviano — PCB), 
the  MNR  won  with  a  clear  plurality.  The  outgoing  president, 
however,  persuaded  the  military  to  step  in  and  prevent  the  MNR 
from  taking  power.  Mamerto  Urriolagoitia  Harriague  (1949-51), 
who  had  succeeded  the  ailing  Hertzog  in  1949,  backed  a  military 
junta  under  General  Hugo  Ballivian  Rojas  (1951-52).  Under 
Ballivian,  the  government  made  a  last  futile  attempt  to  suppress 
the  growing  unrest  throughout  the  country. 

By  1952  the  Bolivian  economy  had  deteriorated  even  further. 
The  governments  of  the  sexenio  had  been  reluctant  to  increase  taxes 
for  the  upper  class  and  to  reduce  social  spending,  resulting  in  high 


34 


Historical  Setting 


inflation.  The  tin  industry  had  stagnated  since  the  Great  Depres- 
sion, despite  short  revivals  during  World  War  II.  Ore  content  had 
declined,  and  the  richer  veins  were  depleted,  increasing  tin  produc- 
tion costs;  at  the  same  time,  tin  prices  on  the  international  market 
fell.  A  disagreement  with  the  United  States  over  tin  prices  halted 
exports  temporarily  and  caused  a  decline  in  income  that  further 
hurt  the  economy.  The  agricultural  sector  lacked  capital,  and  food 
imports  had  increased,  reaching  19  percent  of  total  imports  in  1950. 
Land  was  unequally  distributed — 92  percent  of  the  cultivable  land 
was  held  by  estates  of  1,000  hectares  or  more. 

The  social  unrest  that  resulted  from  this  economic  decline  in- 
creased during  the  last  weeks  before  the  1952  Revolution,  when 
a  hunger  march  through  La  Paz  attracted  most  sectors  of  society. 
The  military  was  severely  demoralized,  and  the  high  command 
called  unsuccessfully  for  unity  in  the  armed  forces;  many  officers 
assigned  themselves  abroad,  charged  each  other  with  coup  attempts, 
or  deserted. 

By  the  beginning  of  1952,  the  MNR  again  tried  to  gain  power 
by  force,  plotting  with  General  Antonio  Seleme,  the  junta  mem- 
ber in  control  of  internal  administration  and  the  National  Police 
(Policia  Nacional).  On  April  9,  the  MNR  launched  the  rebellion 
in  La  Paz  by  seizing  arsenals  and  distributing  arms  to  civilians. 
Armed  miners  marched  on  La  Paz  and  blocked  troops  on  their  way 
to  reinforce  the  city.  After  three  days  of  fighting,  the  desertion  of 
Seleme,  and  the  loss  of  600  lives,  the  army  completely  surrendered; 
Paz  Estenssoro  assumed  the  presidency  on  April  16,  1952. 

The  Bolivian  National  Revolution,  1952-64 

Radical  Reforms 

The  "reluctant  revolutionaries,"  as  the  leaders  of  the  multiclass 
MNR  were  called  by  some,  looked  more  to  Mexico  than  to  the 
Soviet  Union  for  a  model.  But  during  the  first  year  of  Paz  Estens- 
soro's  presidency,  the  radical  faction  in  the  party,  which  had  gained 
strength  during  the  sexenio  when  the  party  embraced  the  workers 
and  their  ideology,  forced  the  MNR  leaders  to  act  quickly.  In  July 
1952,  the  government  established  universal  suffrage,  with  neither 
literacy  nor  property  requirements.  In  the  first  postrevolutionary 
elections  in  1956,  the  population  of  eligible  voters  increased  from 
approximately  200,000  to  nearly  1  million  voters.  The  government 
also  moved  quickly  to  control  the  armed  forces,  purging  many 
officers  associated  with  past  Conservative  Party  regimes  and  drasti- 
cally reducing  the  forces'  size  and  budget.  The  government  also 
closed  the  Military  Academy  (Colegio  Militar)  and  required  that 
officers  take  an  oath  to  the  MNR. 


35 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  government  then  began  the  process  of  nationalizing  all  mines 
of  the  three  great  tin  companies.  First,  it  made  the  export  and  sale 
of  all  minerals  a  state  monopoly  to  be  administered  by  the  state- 
owned  Mining  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Minero  de  Bolivia — Bamin). 
Then  it  set  up  the  Mining  Corporation  of  Bolivia  (Corporacion 
Minera  de  Bolivia — Comibol)  as  a  semiautonomous  enterprise  to 
run  state-owned  mines.  On  October  31,  1952,  the  government  na- 
tionalized the  three  big  tin  companies,  leaving  the  medium-sized 
mines  untouched,  and  promising  compensation.  In  this  process, 
two- thirds  of  Bolivia's  mining  industry  was  turned  over  to  Comibol. 

A  far-reaching  agrarian  reform  was  the  final  important  step  taken 
by  the  revolutionary  government.  In  January  1953,  the  govern- 
ment established  the  Agrarian  Reform  Commission,  using  advisers 
from  Mexico,  and  decreed  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law  the  follow- 
ing August.  The  law  abolished  forced  labor  and  established  a  pro- 
gram of  expropriation  and  distribution  of  the  rural  property  of  the 
traditional  landlords  to  the  Indian  peasants.  Only  estates  with  low 
productivity  were  completely  distributed.  More  productive  small 
and  medium-sized  farms  were  allowed  to  keep  part  of  their  land 
and  were  encouraged  to  invest  new  capital  to  increase  agricultural 
production.  The  Agrarian  Reform  Law  also  provided  for  compen- 
sation for  landlords  to  be  paid  in  the  form  of  twenty-five-year 
government  bonds.  The  amount  of  compensation  was  based  on 
the  value  of  the  property  declared  for  taxes. 

During  the  first  years  of  the  revolution,  miners  wielded  extra- 
ordinary influence  within  the  government.  In  part,  this  influence 
was  based  on  the  miners'  decisive  role  in  the  fighting  of  April  1952. 
In  addition,  however,  armed  militias  of  miners  formed  by  the 
government  to  counterbalance  the  military  had  become  a  power- 
ful force  in  their  own  right.  Miners  immediately  organized  the 
Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Central  Obrera  Boliviana — COB), 
which  demanded  radical  change  as  well  as  participation  in  the 
government  and  benefits  for  its  members.  As  a  result,  the  govern- 
ment included  three  pro-COB  ministers  in  the  cabinet  and  accepted 
the  demand  for  fuero  sindical,  the  legally  autonomous  status  that 
granted  the  COB  semisovereign  control  over  the  workers  of  Bolivia. 
The  MNR  regime  gave  worker  representatives  veto  power  in  all 
Comibol  decisions  and  allowed  for  a  cogovernment  in  mine  ad- 
ministration. The  government  also  established  special  stores  for 
the  miners,  increased  their  salaries,  and  rehired  fired  workers. 

The  peasants  also  exerted  a  powerful  influence.  At  first,  the 
government  was  unable  to  control  the  occupation  of  land  by  the 
peasants.  As  a  result,  it  could  not  enforce  the  provisions  of  the  land 
reform  decree  to  keep  medium- sized  productive  estates  intact.  But 


36 


Historical  Setting 


the  MNR  eventually  gained  the  support  of  the  campesinos  when 
the  Ministry  of  Peasant  Affairs  was  created  and  when  peasants  were 
organized  into  syndicates.  Peasants  were  not  only  granted  land  but 
their  militias  also  were  given  large  supplies  of  arms.  The  peasants 
remained  a  powerful  political  force  in  Bolivia  during  all  subsequent 
governments. 

The  Unfinished  Revolution 

Although  these  major  steps  were  never  reversed,  observers  have 
regarded  the  revolution  as  unfinished  because  it  lost  momentum 
after  the  first  years.  The  divisions  within  the  MNR  seriously 
weakened  its  attempt  to  incorporate  the  support  of  the  Indian 
peasants,  the  workers,  and  the  middle  class  for  the  government. 
In  1952  the  MNR  was  a  broad  coalition  of  groups  with  different 
interests.  Juan  Oquendo  Lechm  led  the  left  wing  of  the  party  and 
had  the  support  of  the  labor  sector.  Siles  Zuazo  represented  the 
right  wing  and  had  the  backing  of  the  middle  class.  Paz  Estens- 
soro  was  initially  the  neutral  leader.  Because  the  majority  of  the 
MNR  elite  wanted  a  moderate  course  and  the  left  wing  demanded 
radical  change,  the  polarization  increased  and  led  eventually  to  the 
destruction  of  the  MNR  in  1964. 

The  country  faced  severe  economic  problems  as  a  result  of  the 
changes  enacted  by  the  government.  The  nationalization  of  the 
mines  had  a  negative  effect  on  the  economy.  The  mines  of  Comibol 
produced  at  a  loss  because  of  the  lack  of  technical  expertise  and 
capital  to  modernize  the  aging  plants  and  nearly  depleted  deposits 
of  low-grade  ore.  Declining  tin  prices  on  the  world  market  con- 
tributed to  the  economic  problems  in  the  mining  sector.  Neverthe- 
less, workers  in  the  management  of  Comibol  increased  salaries  and 
the  work  force  by  nearly  50  percent. 

The  decline  of  agricultural  production  contributed  to  the  rapidly 
deteriorating  economy  during  the  first  years  of  the  revolution. 
Although  anarchy  in  the  countryside  was  the  main  reason  for  the 
decrease  in  production,  the  peasants'  inability  to  produce  for  a  mar- 
ket economy  and  the  lack  of  transport  facilities  contributed  to  the 
problem.  The  attempt  to  increase  agricultural  production  by 
colonizing  the  less  densely  populated  valleys  was  not  successful  at 
first.  As  a  result,  the  food  supply  for  the  urban  population  decreased, 
and  Bolivia  had  to  import  food. 

High  inflation,  primarily  caused  by  social  spending,  also  hurt 
the  economy.  The  value  of  the  peso,  Bolivia's  former  currency, 
fell  from  60  to  12,000  to  the  United  States  dollar  between  1952 
and  1956,  affecting  primarily  the  urban  middle  class,  which  began 
to  support  the  opposition. 


37 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


The  bankrupt  economy  increased  the  factionalism  within  the 
MNR.  Whereas  the  left  wing  demanded  more  government  con- 
trol over  the  economy,  the  right  wing  hoped  to  solve  the  nation's 
problems  with  aid  from  the  United  States.  The  government  had 
sought  cooperation  with  the  United  States  as  early  as  1953,  a  move 
that  had  given  the  United  States  influence  over  Bolivia's  economy. 
Because  of  United  States  pressure,  the  Bolivian  government  prom- 
ised to  compensate  the  owners  of  nationalized  tin  mines  and  drew 
up  a  new  petroleum  code,  which  again  allowed  United  States  in- 
vestments in  Bolivian  oil. 

During  the  presidency  of  Siles  Zuazo  (1956-60  and  1982-85), 
who  won  the  election  with  84  percent  of  the  vote,  United  States 
aid  reached  its  highest  level.  In  1957  the  United  States  subsidized 
more  than  30  percent  of  the  Bolivian  government's  central  budget. 
Advised  by  the  United  States  government  and  the  IMF,  the  Siles 
Zuazo  regime  then  in  power  reduced  inflation  with  a  number  of 
politically  dangerous  measures,  such  as  the  freezing  of  wages  and 
the  ending  of  the  government- subsidized  miners'  stores. 

Siles  Zuazo 's  stabilization  plan  seriously  damaged  the  coalition 
between  the  MNR  and  the  COB.  The  COB  called  immediately 
for  a  general  strike,  which  threatened  to  destroy  an  already  dis- 
rupted economy;  the  strike  was  called  off  only  after  impassioned 
appeals  by  the  president.  But  the  conflict  between  the  government 
and  the  miners'  militias  continued  as  the  militias  constantly 
challenged  the  government's  authority.  Siles  Zuazo  faced  not  only 
labor  unrest  in  the  mines  but  also  discontent  in  the  countryside, 
where  peasant  leaders  were  competing  for  power.  In  an  effort  to 
quell  the  unrest,  he  decided  to  rebuild  the  armed  forces. 

During  the  Siles  Zuazo  administration,  the  strength  of  the  armed 
forces  grew  as  a  result  of  a  new  concern  for  professionalism  and 
training,  technical  assistance  from  the  United  States,  and  an  in- 
crease in  the  size  and  budget  of  the  military.  In  addition,  the  mili- 
tary's role  in  containing  unrest  gave  it  increasing  influence  within 
the  MNR  government. 

Although  the  stabilization  plan  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
armed  forces  were  resented  by  Lechin's  faction  of  the  party,  the 
first  formal  dissent  came  from  Walter  Guevara  Arze  and  the  MNR 
right  wing.  Guevara  Arze,  who  had  been  foreign  minister  and  then 
minister  of  government  in  the  first  Paz  Estenssoro  government, 
split  from  the  MNR  to  form  the  Authentic  Nationalist  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario 
Autentico — MNRA)  in  1960,  when  his  presidential  hopes  were  de- 
stroyed by  Paz  Estenssoro 's  candidacy.  Guevara  Arze  charged  that 


38 


Historical  Setting 


the  MNR  had  betrayed  the  revolution,  and  he  posed  a  formidable 
opposition  in  the  presidential  election  of  1960. 

Conflicts  within  the  MNR  increased  during  Paz  Estenssoro's 
second  term  (1960-64).  Together  with  the  United  States  and  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  Paz  Estenssoro 
endorsed  the  "Triangular  Plan,"  which  called  for  a  restructuring 
of  the  tin-mining  industry.  The  plan  demanded  the  end  of  the  work- 
ers' control  over  Comibol  operations,  the  firing  of  workers,  and 
a  reduction  in  their  salaries  and  benefits;  it  was  strongly  opposed 
by  the  COB  and  Lechin's  MNR  faction. 

In  1964  Paz  Estenssoro  decided  to  run  again  for  president,  using 
a  revision  of  the  1961  constitution  that  would  allow  for  a  consecu- 
tive term,  and  he  forced  his  nomination  at  a  party  convention. 
Lechin,  who  had  hoped  to  become  the  presidential  candidate,  broke 
away  to  form  the  National  Leftist  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 
Revolucionario  de  la  Izquierda  Nacional — PRIN).  With  his  sup- 
port in  the  MNR  dwindling  and  opposition  from  the  labor  sector 
mounting,  Paz  Estenssoro  accepted  General  Rene  Barrientos 
Ortuno  as  vice  presidential  candidate.  Because  most  opposition 
groups  abstained,  Paz  Estenssoro  was  reelected  with  the  support 
of  the  military  and  the  peasants.  Paz  Estenssoro  had  come  to  rely 
increasingly  on  the  military,  whose  role  as  a  peacekeeper  had  made 
it  an  arbiter  in  politics.  But  this  support  was  to  prove  unreliable; 
the  military  was  already  planning  to  overthrow  him.  Moreover, 
rivalry  among  peasant  groups  often  resulted  in  bloody  feuds  that 
further  weakened  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government. 

During  its  twelve-year  rule,  the  MNR  had  failed  to  build  a  firm 
basis  for  democratic,  civilian  government.  Increasing  factionalism, 
open  dissent,  ideological  differences,  policy  errors,  and  corruption 
weakened  the  party  and  made  it  impossible  to  establish  an  institu- 
tional framework  for  the  reforms.  Not  even  the  peasants,  who  were 
the  main  beneficiaries  of  the  revolution,  consistently  supported  the 
MNR. 

Military  Rule,  1964-82 

The  Presidency  of  Barrientos 

On  November  4,  1964,  Barrientos  (president,  1964-65;  copresi- 
dent,  May  1965-January  1966;  and  president,  1966-69)  and 
General  Alfredo  Ovando  Candia  occupied  the  presidential  palace 
and  declared  themselves  copresidents.  But  as  the  crowd,  which  had 
gathered  outside  the  palace,  persisted  in  shouting  its  preference 
for  the  more  charismatic  Barrientos,  Ovando  allowed  Barrientos 
to  assume  the  presidency  alone,  while  he  occupied  the  post  of  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces. 


39 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Barrientos  insisted  that  his  assumption  of  power  was  not  a 
counterrevolutionary  move  and  promised  to  restore  the  revolution 
to  its  "true  path,"  from  which  the  MNR  had  deviated  during  its 
twelve-year  rule.  Nevertheless,  his  government  continued  many 
of  the  policies  of  the  second  Paz  Estenssoro  administration,  includ- 
ing the  IMF  stabilization  plan  and  the  Triangular  Plan.  The  em- 
phasis on  reducing  social  costs  remained  in  effect.  In  May  1965, 
the  army  forced  Barrientos  to  accept  Ovando  as  his  copresident 
as  a  sort  of  reward  for  suppressing  an  uprising  by  miners  and  fac- 
tory workers. 

The  economy  improved  during  the  Barrientos  regime  at  a  growth 
rate  averaging  6.5  percent  per  year.  The  rise  of  tin  prices  resulted 
in  the  first  profit  for  Comibol  in  1966  and  contributed  to  increased 
production  in  the  medium-sized  mines  that  had  remained  in  pri- 
vate hands.  Barrientos  encouraged  the  private  sector  and  foreign 
investment  and  gave  Gulf  Oil  Company  permission  to  export 
petroleum  and  natural  gas  from  Bolivia. 

In  1966  Barrientos  legitimized  his  rule  by  winning  the  presidential 
election.  He  formed  the  Popular  Christian  Movement  (Movimiento 
Popular  Cristiano — MPC)  as  his  base  of  support.  Although  the 
MPC  was  not  very  successful,  he  won  the  election  with  a  coalition 
of  conservative  politicians,  the  business  community,  and  the 
peasants. 

Barrientos' s  efforts  to  build  support  in  the  countryside  succeeded 
at  first  with  the  signing  in  February  1964  of  the  Military-Peasant 
Pact  (Pacto  Militar-Campesino).  Under  the  agreement,  the  cam- 
pesino  militias  agreed  to  adopt  an  antileftist  stance  and  to  sub- 
ordinate themselves  to  the  army.  But  his  attempt  to  impose  taxes 
on  peasants  resulted  in  a  violent  response  and  loss  of  support  in 
rural  areas. 

Determined  to  keep  the  labor  sector  under  control,  Barrientos 
took  away  most  of  the  gains  it  had  achieved  during  the  MNR's 
rule.  He  placed  Comibol  under  the  control  of  a  military  director 
and  abolished  the  veto  power  of  union  leaders  in  management 
decisions.  The  president  also  cut  the  pay  of  the  miners  to  the  equiva- 
lent of  US$0.80  a  day  and  reduced  the  mining  work  force  and  the 
enormous  Comibol  bureaucracy  by  10  percent.  Finally,  he  de- 
stroyed the  COB  and  the  mine  workers'  union,  suppressed  all  strike 
activity,  disarmed  the  miners'  militias,  and  exiled  union  leaders. 
Military  troops  again  occupied  the  mines,  and  in  1967  they  mas- 
sacred miners  and  their  families  at  the  Catavi-Siglo  XX  mines. 

But  Barrientos  could  not  completely  silence  the  labor  sector; 
miners  led  the  growing  opposition  to  his  rule.  The  various  groups 
opposing  his  rule  joined  in  denouncing  Barrientos 's  selling  of  natural 


40 


Historical  Setting 


resources  to  the  United  States  under  favorable  terms.  They  resented 
his  invitation  to  United  States  private  investment  in  Bolivia  be- 
cause he  offered  greater  privileges  to  foreign  investors.  The  defec- 
tion of  Barrientos's  close  friend  and  minister  of  interior,  Colonel 
Antonio  Arguedas,  to  Cuba  after  his  announcement  that  he  had 
been  an  agent  for  the  United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency 
(CIA)  aroused  national  indignation.  The  military  also  resented  the 
key  role  of  United  States  officers  in  the  capture  and  killing  of  Ernesto 
"Che"  Guevara  in  1967  in  Bolivia,  where  he  had  tried  to  start 
a  guerrilla  movement  (see  The  Counterinsurgency  Decade,  ch.  5). 

The  death  of  Barrientos  in  a  helicopter  crash  on  April  27,  1969, 
initially  left  control  in  the  hands  of  his  vice  president,  Luis  Adolfo 
Siles  Salinas  (1969).  Real  power,  however,  remained  with  the  armed 
forces  under  its  commander  in  chief,  General  Ovando,  who  took 
power  on  September  26,  1969,  in  a  coup  that  was  supported  by 
reformist  officers. 

Revolutionary  Nationalism:  Ovando  and  Torres 

Ovando  (copresident,  May  1965-January  1966,  and  president, 
January- August  1966  and  1969-70)  annulled  the  elections  sched- 
uled for  1970,  dismissed  the  Congress,  and  appointed  a  cabinet 
that  included  independent  reformist  civilians  who  had  opposed  the 
policies  of  Barrientos.  Ovando  hoped  to  gain  civilian  and  military 
support  with  a  program  of  "revolutionary  nationalism, ' '  which  he 
had  outiined  in  the  "Revolutionary  Mandate  of  the  Armed  Forces. ' ' 
Revolutionary  nationalism  reflected  the  heritage  and  rhetoric  of 
the  military  reformist  regimes  of  the  past,  as  well  as  the  spirit  of 
the  1952  Revolution.  It  also  showed  the  influence  of  the  Peruvian 
government  of  General  Juan  Velasco  Alvarado.  Many  Bolivian 
officers  believed  that  the  military  had  to  intervene  in  politics  to 
lead  the  country  toward  reform  because  civilian  governments  had 
failed  in  that  undertaking.  They  were  convinced  that  it  was  in  the 
main  interest  of  the  armed  forces  to  end  underdevelopment,  which 
they  saw  as  the  cause  of  insurgency.  The  military  would  therefore 
fight  on  the  internal  frontiers  against  social  injustice  and  economic 
dependence. 

Despite  highly  popular  measures,  such  as  the  nationalization  of 
the  holdings  of  the  North  American-owned  Gulf  Oil  Company, 
Ovando  failed  to  gain  popular  support.  Popular  enthusiasm  over 
the  nationalization  was  short  lived.  Disagreement  over  compensa- 
tion, a  boycott  of  Bolivian  crude  oil  on  the  international  market, 
and  a  general  downturn  in  the  economy  became  divisive  factors. 
Even  though  Ovando  legalized  the  COB  and  withdrew  troops  from 
the  mining  camps,  lasting  worker  support  for  the  regime  was  not 


41 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

ensured.  Frustrated  expectations,  broken  promises,  and  the  mas- 
sacre of  miners  by  the  military  in  Catavi  in  1967  had  radicalized 
the  workers,  who  now  refused  to  cooperate  with  the  military 
government. 

While  the  left  became  radicalized,  the  right  became  weary  of 
Ovando's  vacillating  statements,  which  included  the  suggestion  that 
private  property  be  abolished.  Even  when  Ovando  moved  right 
during  the  last  months  of  his  regime,  he  was  unable  to  enlist  the 
support  of  the  conservative  groups  in  the  country  because  this  move 
only  emphasized  his  weakness. 

Ovando's  reform  program  also  polarized  the  military.  Reform- 
ist officers,  concerned  about  the  decline  in  popular  support  for  the 
military  since  the  Barrientos  regime,  shifted  their  support  to  the 
more  radical  General  Juan  Jose  Torres  Gonzalez  (1970-71),  whom 
Ovando  had  dismissed  as  his  commander  in  chief;  the  right  backed 
General  Rogelio  Miranda.  The  chaos  surrounding  the  overthrow 
of  Ovando  highlighted  the  division  in  the  armed  forces.  Military 
officers  demanded  the  resignation  of  Ovando  and  Miranda  after 
a  failed  coup  attempt  by  the  latter  on  October  5,  1970.  A  trium- 
virate, formed  on  October  6,  failed  to  consolidate  support.  On  Oc- 
tober 7,  as  the  country  moved  toward  civil  war  after  the  COB  had 
declared  a  general  strike,  General  Torres  emerged  as  the  com- 
promise candidate  and  became  president  of  Bolivia. 

The  main  feature  of  Torres' s  presidency  was  a  lack  of  author- 
ity. Rather  than  taking  the  initiative  on  policies,  Torres  primarily 
reacted  to  pressure  from  different  groups.  His  minister  of  inter- 
ior, Jorge  Gallardo  Lozada,  labeled  the  Torres  government  the  "ten 
months  of  emergency." 

Torres  hoped  to  retain  civilian  support  by  moving  to  the  left. 
He  nationalized  some  United  States  property,  such  as  the  waste- 
processing  operation  of  the  Catavi  tin  mines  and  the  Matilde  zinc 
mine,  and  he  ordered  the  Peace  Corps,  a  United  States  program, 
out  of  Bolivia.  While  limiting  United  States  influence  in  Bolivia, 
Torres  increased  cooperation  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies 
in  the  economic  and  technical  sectors. 

Because  of  his  lack  of  a  clear  strategy  and  political  experience, 
however,  Torres  soon  succeeded  in  alienating  all  sectors  of  Bolivian 
society.  He  found  it  very  difficult  to  organize  groups  on  the  left 
because  they  confronted  him  with  demands  that  he  could  not  meet, 
such  as  giving  them  half  of  all  cabinet  seats.  The  workers,  students, 
and  parties  of  the  left  wanted  a  socialist  state  and  saw  the  Torres 
government  only  as  a  step  in  that  direction. 

In  June  1970,  the  Torres  regime  established  the  Popular  Assem- 
bly (Asamblea  Popular)  in  an  attempt  to  form  an  alternative  popular 


42 


Historical  Setting 


government.  Consisting  mainly  of  representatives  of  workers'  and 
peasants'  organizations,  the  Popular  Assembly  was  intended  to  serve 
as  a  base  for  the  radical  transformation  of  society.  However,  the 
left  remained  divided  by  ideological  differences  and  rivalry  for 
leadership.  They  could  not  agree  on  controversial  issues  dealing 
with  full  worker  participation  in  state  and  private  enterprises,  the 
creation  of  armed  militias,  and  the  establishment  of  popular 
tribunals  having  legal  jurisdiction  over  crimes  against  the  work- 
ing class.  No  consensus  was  achieved,  and  many  delegates,  resenting 
the  lack  of  power  to  enforce  the  resolutions  and  running  short  of 
funds,  returned  home  prematurely.  The  Popular  Assembly  did, 
however,  succeed  in  weakening  the  government  by  creating  a  cli- 
mate in  which  popular  organizations  acted  independently  from  the 
state. 

Torres 's  hope  of  placating  conservative  opposition  by  avoiding 
radical  change  did  not  win  him  the  support  of  the  right,  especially 
of  the  powerful  business  community.  Conservative  groups  unified 
in  their  opposition  because  they  saw  a  chance  for  a  political  come- 
back in  alliance  with  rightist  officers.  The  military,  in  turn,  be- 
came increasingly  polarized  because  of  their  discontent  with  Torres' s 
chaotic  leadership.  Torres  had  cut  the  defense  budget  to  free  money 
for  education  and  allowed  civilian  interference  in  strictly  mili- 
tary matters.  He  often  permitted  military  disobedience  to  go  un- 
punished. The  last  step  of  institutional  decay  was  a  manifesto  written 
during  the  last  weeks  of  the  Torres  regime  by  a  group  of  junior 
officers  who  questioned  military  authority.  It  resulted  in  widespread 
military  support  for  the  coup  on  August  21,  1971,  by  Colonel  Hugo 
Banzer  Suarez,  the  former  Military  Academy  commander  whom 
Torres  had  exiled. 

The  Banzer  Regime 

Colonel  Hugo  Banzer  (1971-78),  a  highly  respected  officer  who 
had  repeatedly  attempted  to  overthrow  the  Torres  regime,  ruled 
for  six  years,  the  longest  continuous  presidential  term  in  recent 
Bolivian  history.  Banzer' s  presidency  was  characterized  by  rela- 
tive political  stability  and  unprecedented  economic  growth.  At  first 
he  was  supported  by  the  Nationalist  Popular  Front  (Frente  Popu- 
lar Nacionalista — FPN),  an  alliance  between  the  MNR  under  Paz 
Estenssoro,  who  was  allowed  to  return  from  exile  in  Lima,  and 
the  FSB  under  Mario  Gutierrez.  Both  parties  had  been  enemies 
until  the  chaos  of  the  Torres  regime  gave  them  a  chance  for  a  po- 
litical comeback  in  league  with  conservative  elements  in  the  armed 
forces. 


43 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

During  the  first  years  of  the  Banzer  presidency,  the  economy 
improved  rapidly  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy, 
ch.  3).  Exports  tripled  between  1970  and  1974  because  of  increased 
production  of  petroleum,  natural  gas,  and  tin,  which  was  then  re- 
fined in  Bolivian  smelters.  The  production  of  cotton  in  the  Santa 
Cruz  area  in  eastern  Bolivia  also  tripled  between  1970  and  1975. 

Despite  this  economic  growth,  Bolivia  reverted  to  the  repression 
of  earlier  regimes.  The  new  minister  of  interior,  Colonel  Andres 
Selich,  ordered  a  massive  crackdown  on  the  left,  abolishing  labor 
unions  and  closing  the  universities.  The  government  brutally  sup- 
pressed a  general  strike  against  the  devaluation  of  the  Bolivian  peso 
in  1972.  In  1974  price  increases  for  basic  goods  and  control  of  food 
prices  resulted  in  roadblocks  by  peasants  in  the  Cochabamba  Val- 
ley and  their  subsequent  massacre  by  the  military. 

The  governing  alliance  disintegrated  almost  immediately  when 
the  MNR  and  the  FSB  split.  They  proved  an  unreliable  support 
for  Banzer  because  only  small  factions  remained  in  the  FPN.  The 
armed  forces  were  also  divided,  and  various  factions  tried  to  over- 
throw the  regime.  On  June  5,  1974,  younger  officers  belonging 
to  the  Generational  Group  (Grupo  Generacional)  and  led  by  Gen- 
eral Gary  Prado  Salmon  attempted  a  coup,  demanding  that  Banzer 
legitimize  his  rule.  It  failed,  however,  as  did  another  on  Novem- 
ber 7  that  was  supported  by  military,  MNR,  and  FSB  elements 
in  Santa  Cruz. 

The  November  7,  1974,  coup  has  been  called  an  auto-golpe  (self- 
made  coup)  because  it  gave  Banzer  a  reason  to  rule  without  civilian 
interference.  Influenced  by  the  Brazilian  model,  he  announced  the 
complete  reorganization  of  the  Bolivian  political  system  and  the 
formation  of  a  "new  Bolivia"  under  military  rule.  Banzer  hoped 
to  keep  the  support  of  the  business  community,  the  mine  owners, 
the  agricultural  entrepreneurs  in  Santa  Cruz,  and  the  growing  num- 
ber of  loyal  bureaucrats. 

The  government,  however,  soon  began  to  face  serious  problems. 
The  "economic  miracle"  turned  out  to  be  a  myth,  the  production 
of  petroleum  declined  sharply,  and  Comibol  produced  at  a  loss, 
despite  high  mineral  prices,  because  it  was  subsidizing  other  state 
agencies.  Cotton  production  also  declined  when  world  prices  fell. 

The  stability  of  the  Banzer  regime  was  superficial  because  the 
military  remained  divided  by  personal  rivalry,  ideological  differ- 
ences, and  a  generational  gap.  Growing  civilian  opposition  was 
centered  in  the  labor  sector,  despite  the  renewed  military  occupa- 
tion of  the  mines.  Radical  students  and  the  progressive  sector  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  became  spokespersons  for  the  op- 
pressed groups;  the  peasants  also  criticized  the  government. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


External  factions  contributed  to  the  weakening  of  the  Banzer  re- 
gime as  well.  The  negotiation  with  Chile  for  an  outlet  to  the  sea 
had  raised  hopes  in  1974.  When  an  agreement  between  Banzer 
and  General  Augusto  Pinochet  Ugarte  failed  because  of  the  oppo- 
sition of  Chilean  nationalists,  Banzer' s  position  was  weakened.  After 
Jimmy  Carter  assumed  the  United  States  presidency  in  1976,  the 
United  States  pressured  Banzer  to  hold  elections. 

In  1977,  with  opposition  from  civilian  groups  and  the  military 
mounting  and  pressure  from  the  United  States  increasing,  Banzer 
announced  a  presidential  election  for  1980,  hoping  to  remain  in 
control,  but  labor  unrest  and  hostility  to  his  regime  forced  him  to 
set  the  date  for  1978.  However,  General  Juan  Pereda  Asbun, 
Banzer's  handpicked  candidate,  carried  out  a  coup  in  July  1978 
after  the  National  Electoral  Court  annulled  the  elections  because 
of  widespread  fraud  by  Pereda' s  supporters.  Although  Bolivia  con- 
tinued under  military  rule,  the  1978  election  marked  the  begin- 
ning of  Bolivia's  traumatic  transition  to  democracy  during  the 
following  four  years. 

The  Tumultuous  Transition  to  Democracy,  1978-82 

Between  1978  and  1980,  Bolivia  was  constantly  in  a  state  of  cri- 
sis. The  fragmentation  of  political  forces  made  it  impossible  for 
any  party  to  dominate.  In  the  three  elections  held  during  this  period, 
no  party  achieved  a  majority,  and  alliances  of  various  groups  could 
not  break  the  deadlock.  Social  unrest  increased  as  peasants  began 
to  agitate  again  on  a  large  scale  for  the  first  time  since  their  rebel- 
lion in  the  late  colonial  period.  The  Bolivian  workers  were  more 
radical  than  ever,  and  in  1979,  during  the  COB's  first  congress 
since  1970,  they  vehemently  protested  the  economic  austerity  mea- 
sures dictated  by  the  IMF. 

The  division  in  the  armed  forces  and  the  increasing  visibility  of 
paramilitary  groups  reflected  the  institutional  decay  of  the  mili- 
tary. A  civilian  investigation  into  human  rights  violations  committed 
during  the  Banzer  regime  further  demoralized  the  officer  corps. 

General  Pereda  did  not  call  for  elections,  despite  his  promise  to 
do  so,  and  he  was  overthrown  in  a  bloodless  coup  in  November 
1978  by  General  David  Padilla  Arancibia  (1978-79),  who  was  sup- 
ported by  the  younger  institutionalist  faction  of  the  military.  He 
saw  the  main  role  of  the  military  as  the  defense  of  the  country  rather 
than  political  intervention  and  announced  elections  for  1979  without 
naming  an  official  government  candidate.  Electoral  reforms  sim- 
plified voter  registration,  and  90  percent  of  the  electorate  chose 
among  eight  presidential  candidates  in  honest  elections. 


45 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

When  none  of  the  main  candidates  gained  a  majority,  Congress 
appointed  former  MNRA  head  Guevara  Arze  as  interim  president 
on  August  8,  1979.  This  first  civilian  regime  since  the  brief  term 
of  Siles  Salinas  in  1969  was  overthrown,  however,  by  a  bloody  coup 
under  Colonel  Alberto  Natusch  Busch  in  November.  When  Natusch 
stepped  down  after  two  weeks  because  of  intense  civilian  opposi- 
tion and  only  limited  military  support,  as  well  as  United  States 
diplomatic  action  to  prevent  recognition  of  the  Natusch  govern- 
ment, another  interim  president  was  appointed.  Lidia  Gueiler 
Tejada  (1979-80),  head  of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  and  a  vet- 
eran MNR  politician,  became  the  first  woman  president  of  Bolivia. 
In  1980  Gueiler  presided  over  elections  in  which  the  parties  of  the 
left  gained  a  clear  majority  of  the  vote.  Siles  Zuazo  and  his  Dem- 
ocratic and  Popular  Unity  (Unidad  Democratica  y  Popular — UDP) 
coalition  alone  got  38  percent  of  the  votes;  Congress  was  certain 
to  name  him  president  on  August  6,  1980. 

The  process  was  disrupted  on  July  17,  1980,  however,  by  the 
ruthless  military  coup  of  General  Luis  Garcia  Meza  Tejada.  Report- 
edly financed  by  cocaine  traffickers  and  supported  by  European 
mercenaries  recruited  by  Klaus  Barbie,  former  Gestapo  chief  in 
Lyons,  the  coup  began  one  of  the  darkest  periods  in  Bolivian  his- 
tory. Arbitrary  arrest  by  paramilitary  units,  torture,  and  disappear- 
ances— with  the  assistance  of  Argentine  advisers — destroyed  the 
opposition.  Government  involvement  in  cocaine  trafficking  resulted 
in  international  isolation  for  Bolivia.  Cocaine  exports  reportedly 
totaled  US$850  million  in  the  1980-81  period  of  the  Garcia  Meza 
regime,  twice  the  value  of  official  government  exports.  The  "coca 
dollars"  were  used  to  buy  the  silence  or  active  support  of  military 
officers.  But  Garcia  Meza,  who  failed  to  gain  support  in  the  mili- 
tary, faced  repeated  coup  attempts  and  was  pressured  to  resign  on 
August  4,  1981. 

The  ruthlessness,  extreme  corruption,  and  international  isola- 
tion of  the  Garcia  Meza  government  completely  demoralized  and 
discredited  the  military;  many  officers  wanted  to  return  to  democ- 
racy. However,  President  General  Celso  Torrelio  Villa  (1981-82), 
who  had  emerged  as  a  compromise  candidate  of  the  military  after 
Garcia  Meza's  resignation,  was  reluctant  to  call  for  elections.  In 
July  1982,  after  yet  another  attempt  by  the  Garcia  Meza  clique 
to  return  to  power,  he  was  replaced  by  General  Guido  Vildoso 
Calderon  (1982),  who  was  named  by  the  high  command  to  return 
the  country  to  democratic  rule.  On  September  17,  1982,  during 
a  general  strike  that  brought  the  country  close  to  civil  war,  the  mili- 
tary decided  to  step  down,  to  convene  the  1980  Congress,  and  to 
accept  its  choice  as  president.  Accordingly,  Siles  Zuazo  assumed 


46 


Historical  Setting 


the  presidency  on  October  10,  1982  (see  The  Tortuous  Transition 
to  Democracy,  ch.  4). 

*    *  * 

A  good  survey  of  Bolivian  history  is  Herbert  S.  Klein's  Bolivia: 
The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society.  The  impact  of  the  conquest 
on  the  Indians  and  their  role  during  colonial  rule  and  in  the  Repub- 
lic of  Bolivia  have  recently  received  more  attention  in  two  anthol- 
ogies: Resistance,  Rebellion,  and  Consciousness  in  the  Andean  Peasant 
World,  edited  by  Steve  J.  Stern,  and  Bolivia:  La  fuerza  historica  del 
campesinado,  edited  by  Fernando  Calderon  and  Jorge  Dandier. 

The  early  national  period  is  treated  in  William  Lofstrom's  The 
Promise  and  Problem  of  Reform.  Guillermo  Lora  gives  a  Bolivian  view 
of  the  role  of  the  workers  in  A  History  of  the  Bolivian  Labour  Move- 
ment, 1848-1971.  A  political  history  of  the  late  nineteenth  century 
to  the  revolution  is  Herbert  S.  Klein's  monograph  Parties  and  Po- 
litical Change  in  Bolivia,  1880-1952. 

The  1952  Revolution  is  treated  in  James  M.  Malloy's  Bolivia: 
The  Uncompleted  Revolution  and  in  the  anthology  edited  by  James 
M.  Malloy  and  Richard  S.  Thorn,  Beyond  the  Revolution.  Christopher 
Mitchell's  monograph  The  Legacy  of  Populism  in  Bolivia  offers  criti- 
cal evaluation  of  the  MNR.  The  period  after  1964  is  treated  in  Revo- 
lution and  Reaction  by  James  M.  Malloy  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra 
and  in  the  anthology  Modern  Day  Bolivia,  edited  by  Jerry  R.  Ladman. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


47 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Symbolism  on  the  back  of  the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku 


BOLIVIAN  SOCIETY  IN  THE  LATE  1980s  remained  frag- 
mented along  lines  of  region,  ethnic  affiliation,  and  class.  Profound 
differences  existed  between  the  Andean  area  and  the  eastern 
lowlands.  With  the  exception  of  the  Santa  Cruz  area  in  the  lowlands, 
the  Andes  remained  the  most  heavily  settled  region.  The  lowlands 
had  a  distinct  culture,  ecology,  and  economic  history,  reflecting 
in  part  a  long  history  of  isolation  from  most  of  national  life.  The 
1952  Revolution  and  subsequent  far-reaching  changes  affected  the 
lowlands  and  highlands  in  strikingly  different  ways. 

Indians  made  up  more  than  half  of  the  population  in  the  late 
1980s;  mestizos  and  whites  accounted  for  most  of  the  remainder. 
Each  of  these  groups  differed  widely  in  worldview,  language,  and 
way  of  life.  For  most  of  Bolivia's  history,  Indians  lived  in  isolated 
rural  communities  where  they  remained  socially  and  politically  mar- 
ginal. Whites  and  mestizos  controlled  the  land  and  commerce  and 
dominated  the  countryside  where  most  Indians  lived.  A  regional- 
ism reinforced  by  strong  geographic  barriers  further  contributed 
to  this  ethnic  diversity. 

Changes  beginning  in  the  1950s  broke  down  much  of  the  tradi- 
tional isolation  of  Indian  communities.  Land  reform,  increased 
educational  opportunities,  universal  suffrage,  and  improved  trans- 
portation brought  Indians  into  greater  contact  with  national  soci- 
ety and  undermined  the  hegemony  of  whites  and  mestizos.  These 
changes  also  permitted  a  modicum  of  social  mobility. 

Class  loyalties  and  affiliation  reflected  ethnic  identification.  The 
upper  class  consisted  of  a  white  elite  that  based  its  sense  of  privilege 
not  merely  on  wealth  but  on  proper  lineage  and  breeding  as  well. 
The  middle  class — a  diverse,  vaguely  defined  group  including  every- 
one from  small  shopkeepers  to  prosperous  professionals  and  busi- 
ness owners  without  the  elite  family  background — was  mestizo.  It 
arose  as  a  politically  self-conscious  group  during  the  twentieth- 
century  mining  boom  and  joined  with  wage  earners  in  the  1952 
Revolution  to  bring  about  much  of  the  present  configuration  of 
society. 

The  working  class,  too,  was  a  child  of  the  mining  boom.  Miners 
and  transportation  workers  formed  its  nucleus.  Following  the  revo- 
lution, city-bound  migrants  swelled  the  ranks  of  the  working  class. 
The  urban  population  grew  rapidly;  by  the  early  1980s,  nearly  half 
of  all  Bolivians  lived  in  cities.  Urbanization  transformed  social  re- 
lations as  migrants  remade  the  face  of  the  city  and  the  village  alike. 


51 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  far-reaching  social  changes,  society  remained  profoundly 
oriented  to  kin  and  family.  People  of  all  classes  and  ethnic  groups 
focused  their  deepest  loyalties  on  their  small  community  or  neigh- 
borhood and  a  close-knit  group  of  relatives.  Family  and  kin  offered 
a  haven  amid  the  economic  uncertainties  and  political  turmoil  of 
the  1980s,  providing  a  safety  net  for  poorer  Bolivians  and  a  pool 
of  trusted  allies  for  those  of  greater  means.  Individuals  consulted 
with  kin  on  all  important  decisions,  and  social  life  centered  mainly 
on  family  visits. 

Geography 

Landlocked  Bolivia  sits  astride  the  Andes  in  the  west-central  part 
of  the  South  American  continent.  With  an  area  of  1,098,581  square 
kilometers,  the  country  is  about  the  size  of  Texas  and  California 
combined,  or  twice  the  size  of  Spain.  Bolivia  has  6,083  kilometers 
of  land  boundaries,  which  adjoin  five  countries.  The  country  is 
bounded  by  Brazil  to  the  north  and  east,  Paraguay  to  the  southeast, 
Argentina  to  the  south,  Chile  to  the  southwest,  and  Peru  to  the 
northwest  (see  fig.  1). 

Natural  Regions 

Stretching  in  a  broad  arc  across  western  Bolivia,  the  Andes  de- 
fine the  country's  three  geographic  zones:  the  mountains  and  Alti- 
plano  in  the  west,  the  semitropical  Yungas  and  temperate  valleys 
of  the  eastern  mountain  slopes,  and  the  tropical  lowlands  or  plains 
(llanos)  of  the  eastern  lowlands,  or  Oriente.  The  Andes  run  in  two 
great  parallel  ranges  or  cordilleras.  The  western  range  (Cordillera 
Occidental)  runs  along  the  Peruvian  and  Chilean  borders.  The 
eastern  range  (Cordillera  Oriental)  is  a  broad  and  towering  sys- 
tem of  mountains  stretching  from  Peru  to  Argentina.  Between  the 
two  ranges  lies  the  Altiplano,  a  lofty  plateau  805  kilometers  long 
and  129  kilometers  wide  (see  fig.  4). 

Mountains  and  Altiplano 

The  Cordillera  Occidental  is  a  chain  of  dormant  volcanoes  and 
solfataras,  volcanic  vents  emitting  sulfurous  gases.  Bolivia's  highest 
peak,  the  snowcapped  Sajama  (6,550  meters),  is  located  here.  The 
entire  cordillera  is  of  volcanic  origin  and  an  extension  of  the  vol- 
canic region  found  in  southern  Peru.  Most  of  the  northern  part 
of  this  range  has  an  elevation  of  about  4,000  meters;  the  southern 
part  is  somewhat  lower.  Rainfall,  although  scanty  everywhere,  is 
greater  in  the  northern  half,  where  the  land  is  covered  with  scrub 
vegetation.  The  southern  area  receives  almost  no  precipitation,  and 
the  landscape  consists  mostly  of  barren  rocks.  All  of  the  Cordillera 


52 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Occidental  region  is  sparsely  populated,  and  the  south  is  virtually 
uninhabited. 

The  Altiplano,  the  high  plateau  between  the  two  cordilleras,  com- 
prises four  major  basins  formed  by  mountainous  spurs  that  jut  east- 
ward from  the  Cordillera  Occidental  about  halfway  to  the  Cordillera 
Oriental.  Along  the  Altiplano 's  eastern  side  is  a  continuous  flat 
area,  which  has  served  as  Bolivia's  principal  north-south  transpor- 
tation corridor  since  colonial  times.  The  entire  Altiplano  was  origi- 
nally a  deep  rift  between  the  cordilleras  that  gradually  filled  with 
highly  porous  sedimentary  debris  washed  down  from  the  peaks. 
This  sedimentary  origin  explains  its  gradual  slope  from  north  to 
south;  greater  rainfall  in  the  north  has  washed  a  larger  quantity 
of  debris  onto  the  platform  floor. 

The  most  prominent  feature  of  the  Altiplano  is  the  large  lake 
at  its  northern  end,  Lake  Titicaca.  At  3,810  meters  above  sea  level, 
it  is  the  highest  navigable  body  of  water  in  the  world.  With  a  sur- 
face area  of  9,064  square  kilometers,  it  is  larger  than  Puerto  Rico 
and  is  South  America's  largest  lake.  Lake  Titicaca  is  also  deep, 
about  370  meters  at  its  maximum,  but  with  an  average  depth  of 
215  meters;  its  volume  of  water  is  large  enough  to  maintain  a  con- 
stant temperature  of  10°C.  The  lake  actually  moderates  the  cli- 
mate for  a  considerable  distance  around  it,  making  crops  of  corn 
and  wheat  possible  in  sheltered  areas. 

Lake  Titicaca  drains  southward  through  the  slow-moving,  reed- 
filled  Desaguadero  River  to  Lake  Poopo.  In  contrast  to  the  fresh- 
water Lake  Titicaca,  Lake  Poopo  is  salty  and  shallow,  with  depths 
seldom  more  than  four  meters.  Because  it  is  totally  dependent  on 
seasonal  rainfall  and  the  overflow  from  Lake  Titicaca,  Lake  Poopo 's 
size  varies  considerably.  Several  times  in  the  twentieth  century, 
it  nearly  dried  up  when  rainfall  was  low  or  the  Desaguadero  River 
silted.  In  years  of  heavy  rainfall,  however,  Lake  Poopo  has  over- 
flowed to  the  west,  filling  the  Coipasa  Saltpan  with  shallow  water. 

Rainfall  in  the  Altiplano  decreases  toward  the  south,  and  the 
scrub  vegetation  grows  more  sparse,  eventually  giving  way  to  barren 
rocks  and  dry  red  clay.  The  land  contains  several  salt  flats,  the  dried 
remnants  of  ancient  lakes.  The  largest  of  these  is  the  Uyuni  Salt- 
pan, which  covers  over  9,000  square  kilometers.  The  salt  is  more 
than  five  meters  deep  in  the  center  of  this  flat.  In  the  dry  season, 
the  lake  bed  can  be  traversed  by  heavy  trucks.  Near  the  Argentine 
border,  the  floor  of  the  Altiplano  rises  again,  creating  hills  and  vol- 
canoes that  span  the  gap  between  the  eastern  and  western  cordilleras 
of  the  Andes. 

The  much  older  Cordillera  Oriental  enters  Bolivia  on  the  north 
side  of  Lake  Titicaca,  extends  southeastward  to  approximately  17° 


53 


Figure  4.  Topography  and  Drainage 


south  latitude,  then  broadens  and  stretches  south  to  the  Argentine 
border.  The  northernmost  part  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental,  the 
Cordillera  Real,  is  an  impressive  snow-capped  series  of  granite 
mountains.  Many  of  these  peaks  exceed  6,000  meters,  and  two — 
Illimani  (6,322  meters),  which  overlooks  the  city  of  La  Paz,  and 
Illampu  (6,424  meters) — have  large  glaciers  on  their  upper  slopes. 
South  of  17°  south  latitude,  the  range  changes  character.  Called 
the  Cordillera  Central  here,  the  land  is  actually  a  large  block  of 
the  earth's  crust  that  has  been  lifted  and  tilted  eastward.  The  western 
edge  of  this  block  rises  in  a  series  of  steep  cliffs  from  the  Altiplano. 
The  backbone  of  the  cordillera  is  a  high,  rolling  plain,  with  eleva- 
tions from  4,200  to  4,400  meters,  interspersed  with  irregularly 


54 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


spaced  high  peaks.  Too  high  to  be  exploited  for  large-scale  com- 
mercial grazing,  this  area  takes  its  name  from  the  predominant 
vegetation  type,  the  puna. 

Yungas  and  Other  Valleys 

The  northeastern  flank  of  the  Cordillera  Real  is  known  as  the 
Yungas,  from  the  Aymara  word  meaning  "warm  valleys."  The 
steep,  almost  inaccessible  slopes  and  peaks  of  this  mainly  semi- 
tropical  valley  area  northeast  of  La  Paz  offer  some  of  the  most  spec- 
tacular scenery  in  Bolivia.  Rainfall  is  heavy,  and  lush  vegetation 
clings  to  the  sides  of  narrow  river  valleys.  The  land  is  among  the 
most  fertile  in  Bolivia,  but  poor  transportation  has  hindered  its 
agricultural  development.  The  government  attempted  to  build  a 
railroad  through  the  Yungas  in  1917  to  connect  La  Paz  with  the 
eastern  lowlands.  The  railroad  was  abandoned,  however,  after  com- 
pletion of  only  150  kilometers. 

The  eastern  slopes  of  the  Cordillera  Central  descend  gradually 
in  a  series  of  complex  north- south  ranges  and  hills.  Rivers,  drain- 
ing to  the  east,  have  cut  long  narrow  valleys;  these  valleys  and  the 
basins  between  the  ranges  are  favorable  areas  for  crops  and  settle- 
ment. Rich  alluvial  soils  fill  the  low  areas,  but  erosion  has  followed 
the  removal  of  vegetation  in  some  places.  The  valley  floors  range 
from  2,000  to  3,000  meters  above  sea  level,  and  this  lower  eleva- 
tion means  milder  temperatures  than  those  of  the  Altiplano.  Two 
of  Bolivia's  most  important  cities,  Sucre  and  Cochabamba,  are 
located  in  basins  in  this  region. 

Lowlands 

The  eastern  lowlands  include  all  of  Bolivia  north  and  east  of  the 
Andes.  Although  comprising  over  two-thirds  of  the  national  terri- 
tory, the  region  is  sparsely  populated  and,  until  recentiy,  has  played 
a  minor  role  in  the  economy. 

Differences  in  topography  and  climate  separate  the  lowlands  into 
three  areas.  The  flat  northern  area,  made  up  of  Beni  and  Pando 
departments  and  the  northern  part  of  Cochabamba  Department, 
consists  of  tropical  rain  forest.  Because  much  of  the  topsoil  is  under- 
lain by  clay  hardpan,  drainage  is  poor,  and  heavy  rainfall  periodi- 
cally converts  vast  parts  of  the  region  to  swamp.  The  central  area, 
comprising  the  northern  half  of  Santa  Cruz  Department,  has  gentiy 
rolling  hills  and  a  drier  climate  than  the  north.  Forests  alternate 
with  savanna,  and  much  of  the  land  has  been  cleared  for  cultiva- 
tion. Santa  Cruz,  the  largest  city  in  the  lowlands,  is  located  here, 
as  are  most  of  Bolivia's  petroleum  and  natural  gas  reserves.  The 
southeastern  part  of  the  lowlands  is  a  continuation  of  the  Chaco 


55 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Paraguay.  Virtually  rainless  for  nine  months  of  the  year,  this 
area  becomes  a  swamp  for  the  three  months  of  heavy  rains.  The 
extreme  variation  in  rainfall  supports  only  thorny  scrub  vegeta- 
tion and  cattle  grazing,  although  recent  discoveries  of  natural  gas 
and  petroleum  near  the  foothills  of  the  Andes  have  attracted  some 
settlers  to  the  region. 

Most  of  Bolivia's  important  rivers  are  found  in  the  water-rich 
northern  parts  of  the  lowlands,  particularly  in  the  Alto  Beni  (Upper 
Beni),  where  the  land  is  suitable  for  crops  such  as  coffee  and  cocoa. 
The  northern  lowlands  are  drained  by  wide,  slow-moving  rivers, 
the  three  largest  of  which — the  Mamore,  Beni,  and  Madre  de 
Dios — all  flow  northward  into  the  Madeira  River  in  Brazil  and 
eventually  into  the  Amazon.  Riverboats  along  the  Beni  and  the 
Mamore  carry  both  passenger  and  freight  traffic;  rapids  on  the 
Madeira  prevent  river  traffic  farther  into  Brazil.  Near  the  Para- 
guayan border,  shallow  sandy  streams  carry  the  seasonal  runoff 
into  the  Pilcomayo  or  Paraguay  rivers. 

Climate 

Although  Bolivia  lies  entirely  within  tropical  latitudes,  climatic 
conditions  vary  widely  from  tropical  in  the  lowlands  to  polar  in 
the  highest  parts  of  the  Andes.  Temperatures  depend  primarily  on 
elevation  and  show  little  seasonal  variation.  In  most  locations,  rain- 
fall is  heaviest  during  the  Southern  Hemisphere  summer,  and  yearly 
amounts  tend  to  decrease  from  north  to  south. 

Northern  lowland  areas  have  a  tropical  wet  climate  with  year- 
round  high  temperatures,  high  humidity,  and  heavy  rainfall.  Day- 
time highs  average  more  than  30°C  all  year  in  most  locations.  The 
rain-bearing  northeast  trade  winds,  blowing  across  the  Amazon 
Basin,  bring  significant  rainfall  amounts.  Rain  often  falls  in  brief 
thunderstorms,  sometimes  accompanied  by  strong  winds  and  hail. 

Central  lowland  areas  have  a  tropical  wet  and  dry  climate.  From 
October  through  April,  northeast  trade  winds  predominate,  and 
the  weather  is  hot,  humid,  and  rainy.  From  May  through  Septem- 
ber, however,  dry  southeast  trade  winds  take  control,  and  precipi- 
tation is  minimal.  During  this  season,  clear  days  and  cloudless  nights 
allow  for  higher  daily  maximums  and  lower  nightly  minimums  than 
occur  during  the  rainy  season.  Occasional  incursions  of  strong  winds 
from  the  south,  called  surazos,  can  reach  this  region  during  winter 
and  bring  cool  temperatures  for  several  days. 

The  Chaco  has  a  semitropical,  semiarid  climate.  The  northeast 
trade  winds  bring  rain  and  hot  humid  conditions  only  from  Janu- 
ary through  March;  the  other  months  are  dry  with  hot  days  and 
cool  nights.  Bolivia's  highest  maximum  temperature,  47 °C,  was 


56 


A  view  of  the  Alto  Beni 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 
A  village  in  the  Alto  Beni 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Jane  Regan) 


57 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

recorded  here.  Surazos  also  affect  the  Chaco;  their  approach  is  usually 
signaled  by  a  squall  line. 

Temperatures  and  rainfall  amounts  in  mountain  areas  vary  con- 
siderably. The  Yungas,  where  the  moist  northeast  trade  winds  are 
pushed  up  by  the  mountains,  is  the  cloudiest,  most  humid,  and 
rainiest  area,  receiving  up  to  152  centimeters  annually.  Sheltered 
valleys  and  basins  throughout  the  Cordillera  Oriental  have  mild 
temperatures  and  moderate  rainfall  amounts,  averaging  from  64 
to  76  centimeters  annually.  Temperatures  drop  with  increasing  ele- 
vation, however.  Snowfall  is  possible  at  elevations  above  2,000 
meters,  and  the  permanent  snow  line  is  at  4,600  meters.  Areas  over 
5,500  meters  have  a  polar  climate,  with  glaciated  zones.  The 
Cordillera  Occidental  is  a  high  desert  with  cold,  windswept  peaks. 

The  Altiplano,  which  also  is  swept  by  strong,  cold  winds,  has 
an  arid,  chilly  climate,  with  sharp  differences  in  daily  temperature 
and  decreasing  amounts  of  rainfall  from  north  to  south.  Average 
highs  during  the  day  range  from  15°C  to  20°C,  but  in  the  sum- 
mer tropical  sun,  temperatures  may  exceed  27°C.  After  nightfall, 
however,  the  thin  air  retains  little  heat,  and  temperatures  rapidly 
drop  to  just  above  freezing.  Lake  Titicaca  exerts  a  moderating  in- 
fluence, but  even  on  its  shores,  frosts  occur  in  almost  every  month, 
and  snow  is  not  uncommon. 

Population  and  Regional  Distribution 

Bolivia's  distinctive  topography  and  ecology  have  had  an  endur- 
ing impact  on  settlement  patterns.  They  also  have  figured  in  the 
relations  among  the  country's  diverse  groups  because  the  isolation 
most  communities  and  regions  faced  until  at  least  the  1950s  con- 
tributed to  cultural  diversity. 

In  mid- 1989  Bolivia  had  an  estimated  population  of  6.6  million 
with  a  projected  annual  growth  rate  of  2.5  to  2.6  percent  from  1980 
to  2000.  The  estimated  population  growth  rate  in  1989  was  2.1 
percent.  A  death  rate  of  13  per  1 ,000  inhabitants  and  a  life  expec- 
tancy of  fifty-two  years  for  males  and  fifty-six  years  for  females 
in  1989  contributed  to  a  population  that  was  predominantly  young 
(see  fig.  5).  Population  was  concentrated  in  the  Altiplano  and 
valleys.  Even  the  steeper  Yungas  were  moderately  settled.  The 
lowlands,  the  region  with  the  most  dramatic  rise  in  population  in 
recent  decades,  remained  relatively  sparsely  settled.  In  the  mid- 
1980s,  over  half  of  all  Bolivians  lived  in  the  Altiplano,  nearly  30 
percent  in  the  valleys  and  the  Yungas,  and  about  20  percent  in 
the  lowlands  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 

Settlement  patterns  were  uneven  as  well.  Around  Lake  Titicaca, 
the  mild  climate  and  favorable  growing  conditions  resulted  in  high 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


population  densities.  Settlement  dropped  off  to  the  south,  but  com- 
munities existed  wherever  there  was  adequate  water  along  the 
Desaguadero  River.  East  of  Lake  Poopo,  settlements  lay  along  the 
west-facing  flank  of  the  Cordillera  Real  on  the  alluvial  fans  of 
streams  flowing  from  the  mountains.  There  were  also  small  settled 
valleys  in  the  northern  part  of  the  Cordillera  Occidental.  In  the 
south,  the  semiarid  plateau  supported  only  seminomadic  shepherds. 

The  population  of  the  valleys  clustered  in  the  crowded  environs 
of  Cochabamba,  Sucre,  and  Tarija.  In  the  Yungas  to  the  north, 
the  convoluted  terrain  limited  exploitation  of  the  fertile  soils,  and 
the  population  was  concentrated  in  areas  with  relatively  ready  access 
to  La  Paz.  Settlement  increased  in  response  to  population  pres- 
sure in  the  Altiplano  and  government  support  for  colonization  in 
the  decades  following  land  reform.  Population  growth  followed 
access  and  feeder  roads  in  the  region  and  was  concentrated  at  the 
middle  elevations. 

The  lowlands'  small  population  was  scattered,  except  for  the  con- 
centration near  Santa  Cruz.  Significant  colonization  developed 
along  the  Santa  Cruz-Cochabamba  highway.  Large  commercial 
farms  producing  cotton,  rice,  or  sugarcane  occupied  the  areas 
accessible  to  Santa  Cruz.  Elsewhere,  large  ranches,  small  towns, 
and  settlements  clustered  along  riverbanks  where  roads  had  not 
penetrated.  Small  subsistence  farms  were  scattered  along  the 
perimeter  of  larger  holdings  and  represented  the  spearhead  of 
penetration  into  the  forest.  Indian  tribes  inhabited  the  sparsely  set- 
tled northern  half  of  the  lowlands. 

Ethnic  Groups 

The  conquest  of  the  Inca  Empire  brought  the  Spanish  into  con- 
tact with  a  stratified  and  ethnically  diverse  population  in  the  region 
of  present-day  Peru  and  the  Bolivian  Altiplano,  Yungas,  and  val- 
leys. The  scant  eighty  years  of  Inca  rule  over  the  Aymara  tribes 
brought  large-scale  population  movements  within  the  empire.  Inca 
policies  included  the  forced  migration  of  potentially  hostile  (usually 
recently  conquered)  groups  and  their  replacement  by  Quechua- 
speaking  colonists  {mitimaes)  of  unquestioned  loyalty.  Mitimaes  reset- 
tled in  the  valleys  around  Cochabamba  and  Sucre;  many  Aymara 
were  expelled  to  the  extreme  boundaries  of  the  empire  (see  Pre- 
Columbian  Civilizations,  ch.  1). 

Spanish  rule  created  a  racially  stratified  society  in  which  whites 
(blancos)  and  mestizos  controlled  Indians  living  in  a  form  of  inden- 
tured servitude  (pongaje)  on  haciendas.  The  Spanish  justified  colonial 
policies  as  a  means  of  converting  the  Indians  to  Christianity,  a  goal 
that  was  often  subordinated  to  other  needs. 


59 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


80  and  over 

: 

i 

75-79 

c 

■ 

70-74 

q 

■ 

65-69 

60-64 

kiAi  r 

l_    CCMAI  C 

55-59 

50-54 

45-49 

40-44 

35-39 

30-34 

25-29 

20-24 

1 

15-19 

10-14 

5-9 

0-4 

600         400         200  0  200         400  600 

POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Figure  5.  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1989 

However  humane  Spanish  colonial  policy  was  in  theory,  in  prac- 
tice the  system  was  filled  with  abuses.  The  policies  were  frequently 
used  to  exact  tribute  from  the  Indians  to  underwrite  the  coloniza- 
tion effort.  In  the  encomienda  (see  Glossary)  system,  for  example, 
the  Spanish  overlords  collected  tribute  from  the  Indian  communi- 
ties and,  in  return,  were  to  see  to  their  religious  instruction  (see 
The  Economy  of  Upper  Peru,  ch.  1).  Encomenderos,  however,  often 
exacted  excessive  tribute  and  appropriated  Indian  lands.  The  Span- 
ish also  employed  the  pre-Columbian  mita  (see  Glossary)  to  require 
all  able-bodied  adult  males  to  report  for  labor  in  the  mines  at 
prescribed  intervals.  This  conscripted  labor,  coming  at  a  time  when 
European  diseases  caused  unprecedented  epidemics  among  the 
Indian  population,  ruptured  many  communities  and  Indian  kin- 
groups.  The  resulting  elevated  mortality  rates,  coupled  with  arbi- 
trary increases  in  the  length  of  service,  left  some  villages  virtually 
devoid  of  adult  males. 

Indians  fled  to  escape  the  intolerable  conditions,  many  to  the 
periphery  of  the  mining  communities  themselves  where  they  sur- 
vived by  a  variety  of  illegal,  if  widely  tolerated,  means.  Others 
sought  refuge  on  haciendas,  where  they  were  exempt  from  the  mita. 
Urban  domestic  servants  and  artisans,  called yanaconas,  were  exempt 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


as  well.  The  general  upheaval  of  the  colonial  period  spawned  a  float- 
ing, rootless  population  unattached  to  any  specific  Indian  commu- 
nity. Such  individuals  often  abandoned  their  native  language  and 
way  of  life;  they  formed  the  basis  of  a  class  that  was  neither  so- 
cially nor  culturally  Indian. 

This  group,  added  to  the  offspring  of  Spanish-Indian  unions, 
rapidly  gave  rise  to  a  population  of  mestizos  of  uncertain  social 
position.  Mestizo  offspring  of  marriages  recognized  by  the  dominant 
Hispanic  rulers  were  frequently  assimilated  by  the  ruling  group. 
Illegitimate  offspring  of  Spanish  men  and  Indian  women  were  usu- 
ally taken  in  by  their  mother's  kin.  Alternately,  if  they  had  received 
some  education  or  training,  they  joined  the  ranks  of  urban  arti- 
sans and  petty  merchants.  They  swelled  the  ranks  of  a  distinct  so- 
cial group  that  was  Spanish  speaking  and  closer  in  culture  to  the 
rulers  than  to  the  mass  of  rural  Indians,  yet  clearly  separate  from 
the  Hispanic  elite. 

With  the  gradual  decline  of  the  mining  enterprises  and  the  end 
of  the  colonial  period,  most  Indians  found  themselves  tenants  on 
large  estates  that  depended  on  entailed  labor  to  turn  a  profit.  Free 
Indian  communities  remained  on  the  less  desirable  lands.  Pres- 
sures on  these  communities  from  further  expansion  of  the  hacien- 
das depended  on  the  level  of  agricultural  profits  in  a  given  region. 
Independence  brought  little  change;  the  small  white  elite  remained 
firmly  in  control.  Their  wealth  throughout  most  of  the  postindepen- 
dence  era  rested  on  their  agricultural  estates,  and  they  firmly  resisted 
any  effort  to  change  the  status  or  outlook  of  their  resident  labor 
force,  the  Indian  peons.  As  a  result,  the  economic  and  social  cul- 
ture of  the  hacienda,  and  with  it  that  of  the  Indians,  continued 
into  the  twentieth  century. 

Ethnicity  remained  the  focus  of  much  of  national  life  in  the  1980s. 
It  was  a  continuing  force  in  the  social  relations  of  individuals  and 
communities.  Ethnic  identity — always  somewhat  fluid — became 
considerably  more  so  following  the  changes  of  the  1952  Revolu- 
tion. The  ethnic  hierarchy  with  whites  at  the  pinnacle  and  the  mass 
of  Indians  at  the  bottom  continued,  although  the  possibilities  for 
those  at  the  lower  level  to  rise  improved. 

Bolivia's  principal  groups  were  a  small  number  of  whites,  a 
larger,  more  fluid  and  diverse  group  of  mestizos,  and  a  majority 
of  Quechua  or  Aymara  Indians.  Whites  were  sometimes  lumped 
with  mestizos  and  called  mistis  (the  Aymara  version  of  mestizo). 
One  commonly  used  term,  cholo,  referred  to  an  upwardly  mobile 
Indian — one  anxious  to  assume  the  norms  and  identity  of  a  mestizo. 
Terminology  varied  by  the  region,  class,  and  ethnic  affiliation  of 
the  speaker. 


61 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

A  number  of  minority  groups  also  existed.  The  Callahuaya,  a 
linguistically  distinct  subgroup  of  the  Aymara,  lived  in  Munecas 
and  Franz  Tamayo  provinces  in  La  Paz  Department.  The  group 
was  widely  known  for  its  folk  medicine,  and  many,  if  not  most, 
of  the  men  earned  their  livelihoods  traveling  among  the  weekly  mar- 
kets held  throughout  the  Andes.  Those  who  marketed  might  speak 
Quechua,  Aymara,  and  Spanish  in  addition  to  their  native  Calla- 
huaya. There  were  also  a  small  number  of  blacks,  the  descendants 
of  the  few  slaves  imported  during  the  colonial  era.  The  Spanish 
rejected  African  slaves  as  a  source  of  labor  for  the  mines,  regard- 
ing them  as  being  unable  to  stand  the  rigors  of  the  cold  or  the  alti- 
tude. Most  blacks  lived  in  the  provinces  of  Nor  Yungas  and  Sur 
Yungas  in  La  Paz  Department.  Significant  numbers  of  Europe- 
ans migrated  before  and  during  World  War  II.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
large  German-speaking  communities  existed  in  La  Paz  and  Santa 
Cruz.  Colonization  in  the  Oriente  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  also 
brought  small  numbers  of  Asians  to  the  region  around  Santa  Cruz. 

Lowland  Indians 

Before  Spanish  intrusion,  the  eastern  lowlands  were  an  area  of 
extreme  cultural  and  linguistic  diversity.  The  region  was  the  ter- 
minus of  several  major  population  movements.  Tribes  ran  the 
gamut  of  technology  and  social  organization  from  nomadic  hun- 
ters and  gatherers  to  sedentary  agricultural  chiefdoms.  The  larg- 
est and  best  known  of  these  groups,  the  Chiriguano,  successfully 
resisted  a  number  of  Inca  military  forays  into  their  territory.  Con- 
siderable trade  also  occurred  between  the  chiefdoms  in  the  Altiplano, 
Yungas,  and  valleys  and  these  tribes  in  the  lowlands. 

The  Spanish  sent  periodic  expeditions  through  the  area  in  search 
of  the  land  of  the  Great  Tiger  Lord  (El  Gran  Paititi),  whose  wealth 
was  rumored  to  rival  even  that  of  the  Inca.  The  indigenous  popu- 
lation's primary  contact  with  Europeans,  however,  came  through 
the  Jesuit  missions  of  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries.  The 
mission  territory  remained  off-limits  to  other  Spaniards  until  the 
Jesuits'  expulsion  from  the  New  World  in  1767,  thus  sparing  the 
Indians  there  the  worst  abuses  of  colonial  rule.  Settlers  then  en- 
tered the  region,  bringing  new  diseases  and  instituting  a  level  of 
exploitation  that  ranged  from  forced  labor  to  outright  slavery.  Con- 
ditions reached  their  nadir  during  the  Rubber  Boom  in  the  early 
twentieth  century.  Some  Indians  survived  by  fleeing  to  less  acces- 
sible areas  of  the  tropical  forest;  others  adopted  the  way  of  life  of 
the  Oriente  lower  class. 

Both  the  numbers  and  the  way  of  life  of  the  lowland  Indians  con- 
tinued to  decline  through  the  1980s.  Rough  estimates  put  the 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


lowland  Indian  population  at  perhaps  100,000  in  the  early  1980s. 
The  main  ethnic  groups  or  linguistic  families  were  Pano,  Mataco- 
Mac'a,  Uru-Chipaya,  Quechua,  Tacana,  Arawak  (Mojo),  Tupi- 
Guarani,  Chiquitano,  and  Aymara.  These  were  divided  into  nearly 
thirty  subgroups  ranging  in  size  from  10  to  20,000  persons  (see 
fig.  6). 

Bolivia  lacked  a  coherent  national  policy  on  Indian  affairs.  The 
criminal  code  made  some  provision  for  defendants  deemed  "without 
civilization"  and  therefore  not  criminally  responsible  for  their  trans- 
gressions. The  national  government  made  only  sporadic  attempts 
to  protect  the  remaining  Indians  from  abuses  or  displacement  by 
the  growing  numbers  of  settlers.  Missionaries,  including  the  New 
Tribes  Mission,  the  South  American  Mission,  and  the  Summer 
Institute  of  Linguistics,  actively  proselytized  among  the  tribes.  Fun- 
damentalist groups  were  particularly  interested  in  "untouched 
tribes."  Critics  charged  that  the  missionaries  undermined  the  in- 
digenous way  of  life  and  left  their  converts  vulnerable  to  exploita- 
tion by  others.  Others  suggested  that  the  missionaries  at  least 
protected  their  charges  from  the  worst  abuses  of  whites  and  mestizos. 

Altiplano,  Yungas,  and  Valley  Indians 

In  1989  about  25  percent  of  Bolivians  spoke  Aymara  and  30  per- 
cent Quechua.  La  Paz  Department  had  the  heaviest  concentrations 
of  Aymara  speakers,  although  small  communities  of  Aymara  were 
scattered  throughout  the  Altiplano.  Increased  migration  in  the  1950s 
gave  rise  to  a  sizable  urban  contingent  of  Aymara  in  La  Paz,  as 
well  as  significant  numbers  in  the  Yungas  and  the  lowlands. 

Quechua  were  found  throughout  the  Altiplano  and  the  intermon- 
tane  valleys  of  central  and  southern  Bolivia.  The  largest  popula- 
tions resided  in  the  departments  of  Cochabamba,  Oruro,  Potosi, 
Chuquisaca,  and  Tarija.  The  diversity  of  habitats  that  they  occupied 
contributed  to  significant  regional  variation.  Some  authors  noted 
more  dialectal  diversity  in  Bolivian  Quechua  than  in  Aymara.  In 
both  languages,  Bolivian  dialects  were  mutually  intelligible  to  all 
other  speakers  of  the  tongue. 

Language  served  a  major  role  in  shaping  ethnic  identification 
and  relations.  Traditionally,  the  inability  to  speak  Spanish  had  con- 
tributed to  the  vulnerability  of  the  Indians.  Mestizos  and  whites 
controlled  access  to  the  larger  society  through  their  command  of 
Spanish.  Until  the  latter  part  of  the  twentieth  century,  only  minute 
numbers  of  Quechua  and  Aymara  were  bilingual;  for  many  of  these, 
competence  in  Spanish  was  simply  a  step  in  severing  their  links 
to  their  Indian  identity. 


63 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


•7 ; 


(D  1  (  o 


fa'  («24 


  Ethnic  group 

boundary 
®      National  capital 
•      Populated  place 
A  Family 
1  Dialect 

0    50   1 00   1 50  Kilometers 

I — 1 — H — h  1 

0        50      100      150  Miles 


_A2 


*14 


G23 


V 


Titie 
F 


Trinidad)  k 


'  28  i 

!   '  ;  G 


E13  ifj) 


^''Cochabamba>  .  I 

,-~N  \     Santa  \ 

Lake.  >|    )    ,'       ~      \  CrL/Z 

°\  ^  v-  - 


|!  ^12 


A 


B4 

^16 


S3 


4  ARAWAK(MOJO) 

1  Ignaciano  y  trinitario 

2  Baure 

B    MATACO-MAC  A 

3  Mataco 

4  Chulupi 

5  Chacobo 

6  Pacawara 

7  Yaminawa 
D  T AC  AN  A 

8  Araona 

9  Cavinena 

10  Ese  ejja 

1 1  Tacana 


E  TUPI-GUARANI 


H  CHIQUITANO 


12 

Ava  e  izozeno 

24  Itonama 

13 

Guarayo 

25  Leco 

14 

Guarasug'we 

26    More  o  itenez 

15 

Siriono 

27  Movima 

16 

Tapiete 

/  QUECHUA 

17 

Yuqui 

28  Yuracare 

F  URU-CHIPAYA 

18  Chipaya 

19  Uru 
G  AY MAR  A 

20  Ayoreo 

21  Bororg 

22  Canichana 

23  Chimane  y  moseten 


J    OTHER  DIALECTS 

29  Paunaca 

30  Kusikikia 

31  Kitemoka 

32  Yurukankia 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Instituto  Boliviano  de  Cultura,  Instituto  Nacional  de 
Antropologia,  and  Sede  Nacional  del  Instituto  Andino  de  Artes  Populares,  Mapa 
Etnolingutstico  de  Bolivia,  La  Paz,  1988. 


Figure  6.  Major  Ethnolinguistic  Groups,  1988 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Data  from  the  1976  census  revealed  that,  for  the  first  time  in 
the  country's  history,  a  majority  of  Bolivians  spoke  Spanish,  one 
of  three  official  national  languages.  Slightly  more  than  one-third 
of  the  population  were  monolingual  Spanish  speakers;  the  same 
proportion  were  bilingual  or  trilingual  in  Spanish  and  one  or  more 
indigenous  languages.  Official  figures  showed  an  absolute  and  rela- 
tive drop  in  the  number  of  monolingual  Indians.  Between  1950 
and  1976,  the  number  of  monolingual  Quechua  Indians  dropped 
by  nearly  40  percent.  The  number  of  monolingual  Aymara  speak- 
ers declined  by  more  than  half  over  the  same  period.  In  1950  more 
than  60  percent  of  all  Bolivians  were  monolingual  speakers  of  an 
indigenous  language;  by  1976,  however,  only  one-fifth  fit  this 
classification.  This  trend  was  even  more  pronounced  in  larger 
cities.  By  the  mid-1980s,  surveys  found  a  scant  1  percent  of  the 
population  of  department  capitals  to  be  monolingual  Quechua  or 
Aymara  speakers.  Sociolinguist  Xavier  Albo  cautioned,  however, 
that  these  surveys  underestimated  the  number  of  monolingual 
Indian  speakers. 

In  practice,  Spanish  and  indigenous  languages  were  intermixed 
to  a  large  extent  in  regional  dialects.  Indeed,  Quechua  and  Span- 
ish in  Cochabamba  were  so  intermingled  that  observers  dubbed 
the  local  dialect  Quechuafiol.  In  other  regions,  too,  Aymara  or 
Quechua  vocabulary  relied  on  extensive  borrowing  from  Spanish 
coupled  with  indigenous  suffixes.  A  lexicon  of  Spanish  borrowings 
included  kinship  terms,  forms  of  address,  place-names,  and  much 
of  the  vocabulary  for  food,  clothing,  and  tools. 

So-called  social  dialects  also  reflected  this  intermixture  of  Span- 
ish and  indigenous  languages.  For  example,  three  Aymara  dia- 
lects— known  as  patron,  radio,  and  missionary — differed  from  the 
version  spoken  by  natives  as  a  result  of  the  influence  of  Spanish. 
Patron  Aymara,  used  by  Spanish  speakers  in  positions  of  authority 
over  monolingual  Indians,  had  a  limited  lexicon  and  relied  on  ex- 
tensive Spanish  borrowings.  Radio  Aymara  was  used  by  radio  an- 
nouncers who,  although  they  were  native  speakers  of  the  language, 
were  translating  directly  from  Spanish.  It  tended  to  appropriate 
Spanish  linguistic  categories  and  also  borrowed  many  words.  Mis- 
sionary Aymara  also  superimposed  Spanish  on  the  indigenous  lan- 
guages to  a  large  extent. 

As  the  numbers  of  bilingual  Indians  grew,  a  shift  in  the  pattern 
of  bilingualism  occurred.  Early  in  the  twentieth  century,  for  ex- 
ample, virtually  everyone  in  the  city  of  La  Paz  spoke  or  under- 
stood Aymara.  Spanish  speakers  learned  it  in  childhood.  Until  the 
Chaco  War  (1932-35),  Aymara  was  the  only  means  of  communicat- 
ing with  underlings.  Among  contemporary  pacenos  (residents  of  La 


65 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Paz),  however,  the  Aymara  were  bilingual,  whereas  native  Span- 
ish speakers  were  monolingual. 

Changes  beginning  in  the  1950s  brought  Indians  into  greater 
contact  with  national  society.  Increasingly,  Indians  themselves 
gained  access  to  national  political  institutions  at  the  same  time  that 
reforms  gave  them  a  greater  measure  of  control  over  their  lives. 
Whole  communities  gained  access  to  consumer  goods,  governmental 
services,  and  educational  opportunities  unavailable  a  generation 
earlier.  Those  accustomed  to  dealing  with  Indians  as  a  subservient 
underclass,  however,  found  these  improvements  hard  to  accept. 

Despite  extensive  changes  in  the  relations  among  ethnic  groups, 
the  cultural  categories  and  vocabulary  that  non-Indians  customarily 
used  in  talking  about  ethnicity  remained  in  general  use.  Indio 
(Indian)  was  still  a  term  of  disparagement,  carrying  with  it  a  vari- 
ety of  negative  connotations  and  implying  intellectual  inferiority 
and  backwardness.  In  response  to  the  pejorative  meanings  com- 
monly attached  to  indio,  the  government  substituted  the  term 
peasant  (campesino)  in  official  pronouncements  following  the  1952 
Revolution.  Nonetheless,  improvement  in  social  status  usually 
meant  becoming  a  mestizo. 

Indians  focused  their  loyalties  on  their  local  community  rather 
than  on  some  abstract  sense  of  a  common  ethnic  identity.  These 
loyalties  extended  outward  in  concentric  circles  from  family  to 
neighborhood  to  village.  Regardless  of  how  much  neighbors  might 
fight  and  litigate  with  each  other,  they  united  in  quarrels  with  rival 
villages.  Factionalism  and  solidarity  existed  side  by  side  in  the  local 
setting,  implying  simply  a  different  arena  of  action. 

By  the  late  1960s,  small  but  growing  numbers  of  educated  Indi- 
ans could  be  found  in  the  professions,  especially  teaching.  Although 
education  was  predicated  on  the  goal  of  "Hispanicizing"  the  in- 
dividual, some  educated  Indians — especially  those  teaching  in  more 
remote  areas  and  those  with  fewer  years  of  teaching  experience — 
retained  a  strong  positive  orientation  toward  their  ethnic  back- 
ground. These  educated  Aymara  and  Quechua  speakers  formed 
the  nucleus  of  a  genuinely  Indian  intelligentsia.  The  1970s  and 
1980s  saw  a  fluorescence  of  Indian  intellectual  groups  and  centers. 

Mestizos  and  Cholos 

Mestizos  and  cholos,  technically  those  of  Spanish  and  Indian  de- 
scent, constituted  25  to  30  percent  of  the  population.  Geograph- 
ically, this  was  the  most  widely  distributed  of  ethnic  groups; 
economically  and  socially,  the  position  of  mestizos  was  equivocal. 
Because  all  of  the  so-called  racial  terms  connoted  social  status  rather 
than  racial  background,  they  were  applied  indiscriminately  and 


66 


67 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

often  interchangeably.  A  wealthy,  upper-class  person  of  mixed 
blood,  for  example,  might  be  considered  white,  whereas  a  poorer 
one  might  be  termed  a  mestizo.  An  Indian  might  be  called  a  cholo 
in  one  situation  or  a  campesino  in  another. 

During  the  colonial  era,  cholo  was  a  generic  term  used  to  describe 
any  person  who  had  at  least  one  Spanish  grandparent.  Over  the 
years,  a  more  specifically  value-laden  meaning  evolved.  Although 
it  still  carried  a  purely  racial  denotation,  it  also  connoted  an  up- 
wardly mobile  Indian,  in  the  somewhat  negative  sense  of  an  ag- 
gressive social  climber.  Some  writers  have  viewed  cholos  as  an 
intermediate,  transitional  group  between  mestizos  and  Indians. 

Regardless  of  the  status  differences  between  cholos  and  mestizos, 
the  cultural  criteria  of  language,  urban  orientation,  livelihood,  man- 
ners, and  dress  defined  both.  Traditionally,  mestizos  and  cholos  filled 
the  intermediate  positions,  such  as  clerk,  small-scale  merchant, 
hacienda  overseer,  and  lower-level  government  official.  Often  those 
who  had  recentiy  begun  the  transition  to  cholo  were  unskilled  laborers 
or  self-employed  vendors  and  artisans. 

The  transition  from  Indian  to  cholo  or  mestizo  required  at  least 
a  change  in  residence.  By  migrating  to  an  urban  area,  an  Indian 
might  assimilate  and  become  thoroughly  mestizo  in  aspirations  and 
identity.  Assuming  mestizo  identity  required  not  only  a  change  in 
style  of  clothing  and  livelihood  but  also  sufficient  facility  in  Span- 
ish to  speak  with  a  locally  acceptable  accent.  Complete  assimila- 
tion was  difficult  to  accomplish  in  one  generation,  however.  More 
typically,  the  migrant's  children  came  to  consider  themselves  mes- 
tizos or  cholos  as  they  were  educated  and  became  adapted  to  urban 
ways  (see  Urbanization,  this  ch.).  Within  individual  families,  such 
social  mobility  often  engendered  tension.  The  ambiguity  surround- 
ing ethnic  categories  and  classification  extended  to  the  nuclear  fam- 
ily. Full  siblings  could  be  viewed  as  members  of  different  ethnic 
groups.  Children  who  were  relatively  successful  and  adopted  the 
dress  and  manners  of  cholos  or  mestizos  deprecated  their  Indian 
parents  and  those  siblings  who  were  less  educated  or  spoke  Span- 
ish poorly. 

The  1952  Revolution  changed  the  pattern  of  mestizo-Indian  in- 
teraction. Traditionally,  an  elaborate  etiquette  ensured  that  mes- 
tizos, who  considered  themselves  to  be  of  higher  status,  received 
proper  respect.  Mestizos  whose  socioeconomic  status  declined  after 
land  reform,  however,  still  wished  to  be  treated  with  deference  by 
Indians.  Some,  such  as  former  landowners  who  had  become  im- 
poverished, responded  by  refusing  to  interact  with  Indians.  Others, 
who  had  entered  commerce  and  marketing,  interacted  socially  with 
peasants  who  were  their  trading  partners  but  avoided  dealings  with 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


their  own  former  peons.  Interethnic  drinking  patterns  also  changed 
in  the  years  following  the  revolution,  ceasing  entirely  in  some 
regions,  and  becoming  a  new  ethnic  interaction  in  other  regions. 

Whites 

Whites,  or  blancos,  also  known  as  the  gente  decente  or  gente  buena 
(decent  or  good  people),  sat  atop  the  ethnic  pyramid  of  the  late 
1980s.  They  represented  roughly  5  to  15  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion. Socioeconomic  and  cultural  boundaries  rather  than  narrow 
racial  criteria  marked  bianco  status,  although  the  vocabulary  describ- 
ing whites  (as  well  as  other  ethnic  groups)  was  rife  with  racial  ter- 
minology. Although  whites  were  well  aware  of  the  admixture  of 
Indian  genes  in  their  ranks,  their  sense  of  superiority  rested  largely 
upon  the  notion  of  ' ' purity  of  the  blood"  based  on  a  strong  sense 
of  aristocracy  and  good  lineage. 

The  standards  for  membership  in  the  white  elite  varied  by  region, 
as  did  the  degree  of  traditionalism  and  adherence  to  the  Spanish 
heritage.  In  general,  the  white  elite  was  culturally  homogene- 
ous and  true  to  its  Spanish  heritage.  Its  members  preserved  the 
Hispanic  traditions  that  dominated  national  society,  even  though 
these  were  not  shared  to  a  great  degree  by  the  mestizo  and  Indian 
majority. 

Whites  were  not  as  widely  distributed  geographically  as  mesti- 
zos, but  they  resided  in  both  urban  and  rural  areas.  In  the  large 
cities  and  smaller  towns,  they  traditionally  held  high- status  posi- 
tions as  professionals,  wealthy  merchants,  or  high-ranking  govern- 
ment officials.  In  rural  Bolivia,  whites  were  the  wealthy  and 
influential  patrones.  Patron  status  implied  not  only  financial  indepen- 
dence but  also  a  European  life- style,  a  particular  code  of  moral  be- 
havior, a  lineage  traceable  to  colonial  roots,  local  origin,  and  a 
leisurely  attitude  toward  work. 

Whites  saw  their  own  sense  of  honor  and  morality  as  much 
stronger  than  that  of  mestizos  or  Indians.  Theft,  drunkenness,  pre- 
marital pregnancy,  and  physical  violence  were  censured  among 
whites  but  expected  among  those  of  lesser  status  and,  presuma- 
bly, breeding.  Whites  viewed  upwardly  mobile  Indians  or  mestizos, 
even  those  mestizos  who  had  amassed  great  wealth,  as  inveterate 
social  climbers  and  pretentious  upstarts.  Deficiencies  of  lineage  not- 
withstanding, mestizos  or  cholos  of  financial  means  could  gain  a 
measure  of  social  acceptance  through  marriage  to  a  daughter  of 
an  impoverished  white  family.  The  children  of  such  a  match,  de- 
pending on  their  education  and  good  fortune,  were  usually  accepted 
as  whites. 


69 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Social  Organization 
Rural  Society 

Rural  society  reflected  the  complex  history  that  communities  ex- 
perienced during  the  past  several  centuries.  Hacienda  expansion, 
mining,  and  land  reform  affected  regions  and  the  communities 
within  them  differently.  The  uneven  impact  of  national  political 
and  economic  developments  combined  with  ethnic  diversity  and 
ecological  complexity  to  create  a  highly  variegated  social  landscape. 
The  contrasts  between  communities  that  had  been  free  Indian  set- 
tlements and  those  that  had  been  dominated  by  a  hacienda  per- 
sisted into  the  land-reform  era.  Regions  with  a  lengthy  history  of 
commercial  farming  differed  from  those  geared  primarily  to  sub- 
sistence agriculture.  Finally,  a  basic  cleavage  existed  between  ha- 
ciendas of  the  densely  populated  Quechua  and  Aymara  settiements 
in  the  Altiplano,  valleys,  and  Yungas  and  plantations  of  the  mes- 
tizo Oriente. 

Historically,  Quechua  and  Aymara  settlements  were  organized 
either  as  haciendas,  with  a  resident  labor  force  of  peons  who  owed 
labor  to  the  landowner,  or  as  free  communities.  Social  and  eco- 
nomic differences  characterized  both  types  of  settlements.  On  the 
haciendas,  residents  received  different- sized  plots  of  land  in  return 
for  varying  amounts  of  service.  The  holdings  of  former  peons  re- 
flected these  initial  inequities,  as  well  as  different  levels  of  success 
in  the  decades  following  land  reform.  Free  communities  distin- 
guished two  or  three  different  categories  of  members.  Those  de- 
scended from  the  original  villagers  had  full  access  to  and  security 
of  land  tenure.  Others  who  came  as  landless  laborers  in  the  nine- 
teenth century  generally  had  less  land  and  less  security.  Still  others 
were  landless  and  relied  on  the  ties  of  kinship  or  ritual  kinship  and 
an  ingrained  community  ethos  about  sharing  to  gain  access  to  a 
field.  If  surplus  land  existed,  the  landless  generally  could  obtain 
a  plot  for  nominal  rent. 

Hacienda  owners  were  casualties  of  the  land  reform.  The  wealth- 
iest left  Bolivia  or  moved  to  La  Paz.  Many  owners  of  medium- sized 
haciendas  moved  to  a  provincial  town  and  entered  commerce.  In 
some  regions,  land  reform  proved  to  be  merely  the  final  in  a  series 
of  economic  reversals  that  had  begun  decades  earlier.  In  Cocha- 
bamba,  for  example,  hacienda  owners  had  faced  the  combined 
problems  of  estate  fragmentation,  a  contracting  market,  and  a  well- 
organized  and  militant  peasantry  since  the  turn  of  the  century.  For 
them  land  reform  was  the  coup  de  grace. 

In  other  regions,  land  reform  had  a  very  minimal  impact. 
Haciendas  in  the  lowlands,  the  mid-sized  haciendas  of  Monteagudo 
in  Chuquisaca  Department,  and  the  vineyards  of  the  Cinti  Valley, 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


also  in  Chuquisaca  Department,  were  generally  spared.  Santa  Cruz 
lacked  the  large,  well-organized  Indian  population  of  the  Altiplano, 
valleys,  and  Yungas.  Landholders  there  not  only  escaped  land  re- 
form but  also  received  the  benefits  of  government  development  plans 
for  the  lowlands.  Their  major  problem  was  securing  an  adequate 
(and  adequately  docile)  labor  force.  They  hired  local  subsistence 
farmers  when  possible  and  contracted  with  labor  recruiters  who 
toured  Aymara  and  Quechua  settlements  hiring  laborers  for  the 
sugarcane  and  cotton  harvests. 

In  regions  of  limited  hacienda  expansion,  preconquest  settiement 
and  land-use  patterns  sometimes  persisted.  Individual  extended  kin- 
groups  known  as  ayllus  (see  Glossary)  tried  to  gain  access  to  the 
resources  of  as  many  different  ecological  zones  as  possible.  Dur- 
ing the  Inca  era,  ayllus  maintained  permanent  resident  colonies  in 
each  of  the  three  natural  regions,  creating  what  anthropologist 
John  V.  Murra  has  termed  a  "vertical  archipelago."  These  colo- 
nies ensured  the  Incas  access  to  the  varied  products  of  plateau  pas- 
ture and  field,  transitional  zones,  valleys,  and  tropics. 

Peasants  in  the  Altiplano,  valleys,  and  Yungas  preferred  dispersed 
plots  within  a  single  natural  region  as  well;  in  addition,  some  cul- 
tivated scattered  plots  in  different  regions.  Such  land-use  strate- 
gies served  as  a  hedge  against  the  considerable  uncertainty  of 
farming  in  the  Andes.  Planting  small  amounts  of  a  crop  in  a  vari- 
ety of  different  locations  ensured  against  total  loss  in  such  unpre- 
dictable localized  disasters  as  hail  and  frost.  In  addition,  these 
agricultural  practices  took  full  advantage  of  the  extreme  variation 
in  environment  within  even  short  distances. 

The  pattern  persisted  despite  the  upheavals  of  the  colonial,  post- 
independence,  and  modern  eras.  Under  land-reform  legislation, 
a  kin-group's  lowland  holdings  could  be  declared  "haciendas"  and 
made  liable  to  expropriation.  Development  specialists  frequently 
saw  this  mode  of  land  use,  scattering  small  plots  at  considerable 
distances  from  one  another,  as  an  impediment  to  agricultural  pro- 
duction and  economic  development.  Nonetheless,  Andean  peasants 
resisted  efforts  to  consolidate  their  landholdings  and  acted  to  main- 
tain their  dispersed  and  diversified  plots  wherever  possible. 

In  the  late  1970s,  anthropologists  found  ayllus  in  northern  Potosi 
Department  farming  roughly  the  same  territory  they  had  held  in 
the  sixteenth  century.  The  territory  used  by  these  ayllus  encom- 
passed regions  from  the  high  plateau  to  semitropical  valley  bot- 
toms. The  distance  from  the  highest  pastures  to  the  lowest  fields 
was  more  than  100  kilometers  and  as  much  as  2,000  meters  in 
altitude.  It  took  two  weeks  with  fully  loaded  llamas  to  traverse  the 


71 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

territory.  Households  had  access  to  the  products  of  each  region 
either  by  producing  or  by  exchanging  them  with  kin. 

The  typical  pattern  of  exchange  saw  llama  herders  loading  their 
pack  animals  after  harvest  and  traveling  to  the  valley  bottoms.  Even 
households  that  did  not  have  formal  control  of  plots  in  other  regions 
would  spend  a  good  part  of  the  year  in  different  territories.  This 
seasonal  movement  gave  all  inhabitants  a  detailed,  extensive  knowl- 
edge of  the  habitats  their  territory  encompassed. 

Before  1952  most  villages  shared  little  sense  of  community  with 
neighboring  groups  or  the  nation  as  a  whole.  Political  participa- 
tion, especially  in  Indian  communities,  was  negligible;  powerful 
outsiders — mestizos  or  whites — mediated  links  to  the  larger  soci- 
ety. In  either  case,  the  community  itself  remained  a  largely  self- 
sufficient,  nonmonetary  society  with  the  nuclear  family  as  the  basic 
social  unit.  Strong  kinship  and  ritual  kinship  ties  contributed  to 
social  cohesion,  but  little  additional  community  solidarity  existed. 
A  family's  existence  centered  on  its  lands  and  a  complex  system 
of  community  work  and  fiesta  obligations. 

The  reforms  in  the  1950s  brought  extensive  changes  to  Aymara 
and  Quechua  communities.  Agrarian  reform  and  universal  suffrage 
meant  more  than  simply  transferring  land  titles,  eliminating  onerous 
work  obligations,  or  conferring  voting  rights.  Many  of  these  re- 
forms had  already  been  reiterated  in  every  legal  and  constitutional 
change  since  the  time  of  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios,  who  began  the 
postindependence  era  with  decrees  calling  for  distribution  of  land 
to  landless  Indians,  equality  for  all,  and  the  end  of  compulsory  labor. 
The  changes  of  the  1950s  fundamentally  altered  Indians'  relation- 
ship to  the  larger  society.  Political  and  economic  links  to  town,  city, 
and  nation  no  longer  remained  the  exclusive  monopoly  of  mesti- 
zos and  whites.  Increasingly,  Indians  themselves  served  as  their 
own  intermediaries  and  power  brokers  (see  Ethnic  Groups,  this  ch.). 

Overall,  the  postrevolutionary  period  from  the  1950s  to  the  1980s 
did  much  to  erode  the  isolation  of  rural  society;  peasants  came  into 
contact  with  national  society  in  ways  unanticipated  by  an  earlier 
generation.  Improvements  in  communications  (radios)  and  trans- 
portation (roads)  made  peasants  aware  of  alternatives.  Before  the 
1952  Revolution,  only  a  few  peasant  products  had  been  sold  through 
mestizo  intermediaries  or  hacendados.  The  revolutionary  reforms 
generated  an  explosion  of  markets  and  of  marketing  networks.  In 
some  regions,  mestizo  intermediaries  still  played  a  prominent  role; 
indeed,  many  former  hacendados  became  intermediaries  when  they 
lost  their  lands.  In  many  areas,  however,  marketing  became  a  career 
for  Indian  and  cholo  women. 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Increasing  population  pressure  in  the  Altiplano  and  expanding 
economic  opportunities  elsewhere  led  to  large-scale  migration. 
Migrants'  experience  with  the  world  beyond  the  hacienda  gave  vil- 
lagers a  new  and  very  different  connection  with  national  society. 
Educational  opportunities  increased  dramatically  at  every  level. 
Traditionally,  hacienda  owners  had  done  everything  possible  to 
limit  their  laborers'  access  to  schools.  Some  even  expelled  peons 
who  dared  to  send  their  children  to  school.  Increased  educational 
opportunities  for  young  Indians  expanded  their  options  for  earn- 
ing a  living.  Like  migrants  (and  the  educated  were  frequently  those 
who  migrated),  these  individuals  became  a  resource  for  their  fam- 
ilies and  communities.  So,  too,  did  the  increasing  numbers  of  young 
men  serving  in  the  military  (see  Urbanization,  this  ch.). 

The  rise  of  peasant  organizations  and  administrative  reforms 
meant  job  opportunities  on  the  local  level.  Peasant  organizations 
offered  many  individuals  a  springboard  to  improve  their  own  sta- 
tus at  the  same  time  that  they  gave  communities  some  control  over 
local  affairs.  These  developments  sharpened  factionalism  among 
communities.  Neighboring  settlements,  which  might  have  had  lit- 
tle interest  in  each  other's  existence  a  decade  earlier,  for  example, 
found  themselves  vying  to  be  designated  as  the  canton  seat  (see 
Departmental  and  Local  Government,  ch.  4).  Land  reform  made 
ex-hacienda  peons  and  Indians  in  neighboring  free  communities 
rivals  for  haciendas  acquired  in  the  twentieth  century. 

Factionalism  within  communities  sharpened  as  well.  The  vari- 
ous hamlets  making  up  a  single  settlement  often  found  little  be- 
sides the  community's  school  and  fiestas  as  points  of  common 
interest.  Marriages  between  various  hamlets  were  a  valuable  link, 
as  in-laws  could  serve  as  go-betweens  in  disputes. 

Consensus  formed  the  basis  of  community  decision  making; 
strong  disagreement  meant  that  a  decision  had  to  be  postponed, 
or  participants  would  seek  another  solution.  In  order  to  resolve 
pressing  business,  communities  sometimes  scheduled  meetings  at 
times  that  were  inconvenient  to  opponents.  The  strong-minded 
could  boycott  meetings  and  refuse  to  comply  with  community  de- 
cisions. Households  that  felt  deeply  about  a  project  would  some- 
times go  ahead  and  begin  work  in  the  hope  that  the  recalcitrant 
would  eventually  follow  suit.  Such  community- wide  projects  as  road 
improvements  and  school  buildings  often  existed  in  varying  stages 
of  completion,  waiting  for  needed  funds  or  for  disinterested  par- 
ties to  finish  their  portion  of  the  work.  Villages  were  reluctant  to 
involve  outside  authorities  to  pressure  dissenters  into  compliance. 

The  reforms  of  the  1950s  highlighted  the  need  for  a  knowledge 
of  Spanish  as  communities  increased  their  dealings  with  the 
government.  Migrants  who  returned  to  their  home  communities 


73 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

during  the  1950s  and  1960s  having  learned  Spanish  played  a  more 
prominent  role  in  community  affairs.  As  most  communities  resolved 
disputes  stemming  from  land  reform,  however,  the  volume  of  deal- 
ings with  the  national  government  declined.  An  older  pattern  of 
leadership  reasserted  itself,  and  seniority  and  success  in  the  fiesta 
system  again  emerged  as  major  criteria  in  selecting  leaders.  The 
fiesta  system  in  its  classic  form  consisted  of  a  hierarchy  of  civil  and 
religious  offices,  each  of  which  entailed  specific  duties  {cargos)  and 
obligations.  An  individual  gained  prestige  through  completion  of 
the  cargos  and  upon  finishing  the  entire  hierarchy  became  a  respected 
community  elder.  The  most  prominent  offices  were  those  where 
an  individual  assumed  the  sponsorship  of  a  community  fiesta 
celebrating  a  Roman  Catholic  feast  or  saint's  day. 

The  organization  of  fiestas  varied.  Mestizo  sponsors  could  can- 
vass their  settlements  for  donations,  which  limited  their  own  finan- 
cial outlays.  In  Indian  communities,  where  the  sponsor  bore  most 
of  the  cost,  the  fiesta  required  a  major  financial  sacrifice.  In  one 
survey,  sponsors  of  major  community  fiestas  spent  from  12  to  80 
percent  of  their  cash  income  from  the  sale  of  agricultural  products 
to  discharge  their  fiesta  responsibilities.  On  the  whole,  however, 
communities  spent  much  less  than  they  had  before  agrarian  reform. 
Fiestas  also  required  an  enormous  expenditure  of  time,  as  spon- 
sors began  planning  for  the  most  prominent  fiestas  years  in  advance. 

The  fiesta  was  a  forum  for  the  acceptable  display  of  wealth  and 
socioeconomic  status.  An  individual  gained  significantly  in  pres- 
tige and  standing  by  sponsoring  the  major  fiestas.  Friends  and  rela- 
tives often  helped  by  offering  food,  drinks,  and  money.  Those  who 
provided  the  assistance  could  expect  similar  help  when  they  assumed 
a  comparable  office.  Gifts  were  recorded  in  written  form,  and  par- 
ticipants had  a  strong  obligation  to  reciprocate. 

The  late  1970s  and  1980s  were  not  easy  for  rural  Bolivians.  The 
peasant-military  alliance  that  had  been  forged  in  the  1960s  ended 
in  1974  with  the  bloody  repression  of  a  peasant  demonstration  (see 
Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4).  In  general,  the  turn- 
stile governments  of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  were  unsym- 
pathetic to  peasants.  Economic  stabilization  packages  exacted  a 
heavy  toll.  The  generally  difficult  economic  situation  of  the  1980s 
curtailed  nonfarm  employment  at  the  same  time  that  increasing 
population  put  pressure  on  land. 

Urban  Society 

The  Working  Class 

Urban  artisans,  street  hawkers,  and  servants  had  been  part  of 
city  life  since  the  colonial  period.  Bolivia's  modern  working  class, 


74 


A  Quechua  Indian  musician  in  Potosi  Department 

however,  had  its  roots  in  the  tin-mining  boom  of  the  late  nineteenth 
and  early  twentieth  centuries  (see  The  Liberal  Party  and  the  Rise 
of  Tin,  ch.  1).  Miners,  transport  workers,  and  manufacturing  em- 
ployees formed  the  core  of  this  group.  Added  to  this  were  a  motley 
crew  of  self-employed  artisans  and  small-scale  retailers. 

The  prosperity  of  the  various  segments  of  the  working  class  varied 
significantly.  Wage  earners  who  were  permanently  employed  in 
well-established  factories  represented  an  elite.  They  benefited  from 
the  reforms  of  the  1952  Revolution.  The  self-employed,  who  were 
far  more  numerous,  were  generally  not  so  fortunate.  At  best,  their 
activities  could  be  as  profitable  as  contract  work  or  comparable  to 
regular  wages.  At  worst,  their  position  was  marginal  indeed.  Com- 
petition was  intense;  artisans  and  small  manufacturers  were  handi- 
capped not  only  by  their  sheer  numbers  but  also  by  illegal  imports 
of  cheap  manufactured  goods.  They  received  little  in  the  way  of 
government  assistance,  although  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  and 
some  international  aid  agencies  helped  by  offering  technical  as- 
sistance and  organizing  cooperatives. 

The  self-employed  who  were  successful  were  generally  able  to 
specialize,  to  remain  flexible  in  their  economic  activities,  and  to 
coordinate  effectively  the  family's  efforts  to  secure  a  livelihood. 
Families  did  well  when  they  were  able  to  pursue  diverse  activities 
as  their  own  options  varied  and  the  market  changed.  The  economic 
activities  of  women  were  an  essential  component  in  the  family's 


75 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


success  or  failure.  They  embodied  flexibility  as  they  balanced  the 
demands  of  marketplace  and  family. 

The  working  class  as  a  whole  experienced  numerous  economic 
difficulties  in  the  1980s.  Wage  earners  suffered  from  the  rampant 
inflation  of  the  early  to  mid-1980s  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of 
the  Economy,  ch.  3).  Unionized  workers  frequently  protested  that 
they  bore  an  unfair  burden  under  the  economic  stabilization  pack- 
ages enacted  by  the  government  of  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro  (see 
Formal  Sector,  ch.  3).  Miners,  facing  reduced  employment  in  that 
industry,  were  especially  militant. 

An  ideology  rooted  in  the  shared  struggle  for  improved  condi- 
tions united  organized  workers.  Railroad  workers  began  union  or- 
ganizing early  in  the  twentieth  century;  miners  organized  in  the 
1910s.  Labor  leaders  mobilized  their  followers  through  appeals  to 
the  memory  of  such  massacres  as  those  at  Uncia  in  1923,  Catavi 
in  1942,  Villa  Victoria  in  1949,  and,  more  recendy,  the  Catavi-Siglo 
XX  mines  in  1967  (see  The  Republican  Party  and  the  Great  Depres- 
sion; the  Rise  of  New  Political  Groups,  ch.  1). 

The  sense  of  class  consciousness  and  camaraderie  that  marked 
the  working-class  ethos  at  times  conflicted  with  other  values.  Sen- 
timents of  class  solidarity,  for  example,  might  be  overshadowed 
by  the  overwhelming  desire  for  upward  mobility  both  for  the  worker 
and  for  his  or  her  children.  To  attain  this  end,  lower-status  per- 
sons were  always  ready  to  enlist  the  support  of  a  patron,  a  power- 
ful, influential  person  of  higher  status,  such  as  a  local  landowner, 
who  could  help  a  client,  such  as  a  peasant,  with  favors  such  as  ob- 
taining a  license  for  selling  produce  in  a  local  market.  In  return, 
the  patron  would  gain  the  personal  support  of  the  client.  Patron-client 
ties  thus  cut  across  class  boundaries. 

A  significant  portion  of  the  working  class  was  bilingual.  In  depart- 
ment capitals,  more  than  one-third  of  the  population  was  trilingual 
or  bilingual  in  Spanish  and  Quechua  and/or  Aymara.  The  Span- 
ish spoken  by  these  individuals  might  be  heavily  accented,  but  it 
was  understandable.  They  were  frequently  better  educated  than 
peasants  and  usually  at  least  minimally  literate. 

Cities,  and  in  particular  mining  centers,  were  a  linguistic  melt- 
ing pot.  Although  Quechua  predominated  among  the  workers, 
many  spoke  Aymara  and  Spanish  as  well.  Aymara  speakers  learned 
Quechua  in  order  to  communicate  with  the  majority  of  miners. 
Spanish  became  the  preferred  language  in  marriages  where  the  cou- 
ple spoke  different  languages,  in  part  because  parents  recognized 
that  their  children  needed  a  solid  grounding  in  that  language  for 
social  advancement. 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Despite  the  sharp  dichotomy  between  city  and  countryside  in 
life-style  and  livelihood,  working-class  families  maintained  numer- 
ous links  between  the  two.  Mining  provided  an  excellent  example 
of  the  complex,  ongoing  relations  between  the  urban  working  class 
and  the  countryside.  Even  before  the  sharp  drop  in  employment 
in  mining  in  the  1980s,  the  transition  from  farming  to  full-time 
employment  in  the  mines  was  a  lengthy  one.  Peasants  might  begin 
with  part-time  seasonal  or  piece-rate  work — a  strategy  that  could 
continue  indefinitely  as  a  supplement  to  earnings  in  agriculture 
or  one  that  could  evolve  into  regular  full-time  employment. 

Even  full-time  miners  depended  on  peasants  for  critical  supple- 
ments to  their  livelihood.  Miners'  wives  toured  the  surrounding 
countryside  after  harvest,  trading  commissary  goods  that  they  had 
obtained  relatively  cheaply  for  agricultural  products.  They  timed 
their  purchases  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  fall  in  food  prices  im- 
mediately after  the  harvest. 

Miners'  families  also  reflected  their  rural  Indian  heritage  by  fol- 
lowing a  pattern  of  exchange,  sharing,  and  cooperation.  The  tech- 
niques that  peasant  communities  had  long  used  to  ensure  families 
a  minimum  subsistence  in  difficult  times  were  adapted  to  the  min- 
ing town.  Families  created  both  money  and  labor  pools  to  increase 
their  productive  power.  In  addition,  they  continued  to  plant  gardens 
to  produce  at  least  part  of  their  subsistence. 

In  larger  cities,  working-class  life  was  organized  around  a  vari- 
ety of  associations.  In  addition  to  union  locals,  neighborhoods  often 
had  a  women's  association,  soccer  team,  and  councils  to  mobilize 
for  civic  action.  Overlapping  membership  in  neighborhood  associ- 
ations cut  across  occupational  specialties.  Factory  workers,  petty 
merchants,  and  artisans  were  drawn  into  a  social  life  that  reinforced 
class  consciousness. 

The  urban  working  class  was  also  linked  through  its  own  fiesta 
system.  Urban  fiestas  were  organized  by  neighborhood  and  by  oc- 
cupational group.  Factories  held  their  own  fiestas,  and  older  es- 
tablishments often  had  a  shrine  to  their  patron  saint  on  the  premises. 
A  senior  employee  typically  sponsored  the  annual  fiesta,  sometimes 
helped  by  a  cash  advance  from  the  employer.  Celebrations  were 
less  elaborate  during  economic  downturns.  From  time  to  time, 
municipal  governments  regulated  various  aspects  of  fiestas  as  either 
too  expensive  or  "inappropriate  to  urban  living."  Although  the 
details  of  urban  fiestas  differed  significantiy  from  those  held  in  rural 
communities,  they  were  understandable  to  all  potential  participants. 

The  Upper  Class 

The  traditional  Bolivian  upper  class  built  its  status  on  the  trian- 
gular base  of  wealth,  political  power,  and  Spanish  heritage.  Its 


77 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

wealth  was  based  on  a  virtual  monopoly  of  agricultural  produc- 
tion, mineral  resources,  and  commerce.  For  most  of  the  country's 
history,  the  upper  class  constituted  the  only  educated  sector  of  so- 
ciety and  the  only  one  that  had  contact  with  and  an  understand- 
ing of  the  world  beyond  Bolivia.  Although  generally  of  mestizo 
origin,  its  members  considered  themselves  white  and  identified  with 
European  culture.  They  formed  a  cohesive  enclave  who  kept  their 
status  intact  through  intermarriage  and  regarded  their  privileged 
position  as  a  birthright. 

The  1952  Revolution  had  a  profound  impact  on  the  elite.  They 
retained  a  prominent  position  in  society,  but  the  very  foundations 
of  their  status  became  subject  to  challenge.  The  concepts  of  racial 
superiority  and  purity  of  the  blood,  nonetheless,  continued  to  be 
central  to  the  elite's  class  consciousness  (see  Ethnic  Groups,  this 
ch.).  Outsiders,  except  for  European  Roman  Catholics,  found  ac- 
ceptance by  this  group  difficult.  An  aspirant  to  upper-class  status 
faced  a  critical  appraisal  of  his  physical  features  and  his  name  (for 
signs  of  Indian  derivation).  Social  climbers  merited  disdain,  often 
expressed  in  terms  of  prejudice  toward  those  of  Indian  or  cholo 
origin. 

The  changes  begun  in  the  1950s  made  both  upward  and  down- 
ward mobility  increasingly  possible.  Growing  numbers  of  Bolivians 
with  "new  money"  emulated  the  life-styles  of  the  elite.  At  the  same 
time,  the  loss  of  land  relegated  some  former  hacienda  owners  to 
regular  jobs  in  the  city  or  even  to  poverty  and  dependence  on  the 
generosity  of  relatives. 

Despite  the  change  in  actors,  traditional  values  and  social  roles 
remained  relatively  intact.  Men  continued  to  follow  the  ideals  of 
machismo  (see  Glossary)  and  the  patron.  Machismo  demanded  that 
a  man  demonstrate  heroism,  forcefulness,  a  zest  for  action,  and 
sexual  prowess.  The  patron  dispensed  favors  to  his  underlings — an 
action  that  demonstrated  his  power — and  expected  loyalty  in  return. 
The  ideal  of  womanhood  still  emphasized  the  qualities  of  modesty, 
sacrifice,  and  motherhood. 

The  Middle  Class 

The  middle  class  occupied  an  equivocal  position.  It  ran  the  gamut 
in  prestige  and  position  from  truck  drivers  and  petty  merchants 
to  highly  paid  professionals  and  business  owners  and  operators. 
Almost  as  much  range  existed  within  this  class  as  between  the  two 
adjoining  groups.  For  lack  of  common  criteria,  the  middle  class 
was  defined  largely  in  terms  of  occupational  specialization  and 
economic  status:  its  members  were  successful  merchants,  white- 
collar  workers  in  commerce  or  government  service,  and  educated 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


professionals  lacking  the  family  requirements  for  upper-class  sta- 
tus. At  its  lower  levels,  the  middle  class  faded  into  the  more  prosper- 
ous elements  of  the  working  class.  In  many  ways,  the  differences 
between  the  middle  class  at  its  fringes  and  the  adjoining  upper  and 
lower  groups  were  of  degree  rather  than  kind.  Both  in  ethos  and 
in  livelihood,  the  middle  class  shared  much  with  those  above  and 
below  it  on  the  social  scale. 

Social  mobility  and  elite  exclusiveness  were  the  dynamics  that 
formed  the  middle  class.  The  group  emerged  from  the  upheaval 
of  colonial  society  both  through  intermarriage  between  Spaniards 
and  Indians  and  through  the  general  influx  of  Indians  into  cities 
and  towns.  The  modern  middle  class,  however,  received  its  impe- 
tus from  the  tin-mining  boom.  Tin  mining  created  demand  for  edu- 
cated administrators  and  expanded  the  opportunities  available  to 
the  middle  echelons  traditionally  tied  to  commerce.  Between  1900 
and  1950,  the  composition  of  the  country's  university-educated  elite 
changed.  Its  percentage  of  clergy,  doctors,  and  lawyers  declined, 
while  that  of  teachers  and  engineers  grew.  As  with  other  wage  earn- 
ers, salaried  professionals  remained  vulnerable  to  economic  re- 
versals. 

The  wealthier  members  of  the  middle  class  tended  to  follow  elite 
mores  and  aspired  to  an  upper-class  life-style  and  acceptance  into 
that  group.  As  one  moved  down  the  social  scale,  these  values  be- 
came less  pronounced.  Cholos,  who  were  typically  bilingual  in  Span- 
ish and  one  or  more  Indian  languages,  made  up  the  lower  levels 
of  the  middle  class.  They  adhered  less  to  Hispanic  norms  than  did 
other  members  of  the  middle  class,  and  they  actually  reflected  the 
influence  of  their  Indian  heritage.  A  dichotomy  existed  between 
the  identification  and  values  of  cholo  men  and  women.  Men  ad- 
hered to  Hispanic  norms  and  values  more  closely,  attempting  to 
emulate  that  life-style.  Women  adopted  an  identity  that  blended 
indigenous  and  Hispanic  elements.  They  often  engaged  in  com- 
merce and  were  formidable  businesswomen. 

Family  and  Kin 

A  stable  family  life  and  widely  extended  bonds  of  kinship  provided 
the  most  effective  source  of  personal  security.  Although  family  and 
kinship  practices  varied  among  the  disparate  ethnic  groups,  both 
Hispanic  and  Indian  traditions  placed  great  stress  upon  bonds  of 
responsibility  among  kins.  No  other  institution  endured  as  the  fam- 
ily had,  and  none  commanded  greater  loyalty. 

The  nuclear  household — a  father  and  mother  with  their  unmar- 
ried and  dependent  children — constituted  the  basic  unit  of  family 
organization  among  the  upper  and  urban  middle  classes.  Within 


79 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

this  household,  children  were  reared,  women  played  their  major 
social  roles,  and  men  owed  their  primary  obligations  of  economic 
support.  Almost  invariably  based  upon  formal  matrimony,  includ- 
ing both  civil  and  religious  ceremonies,  the  family  was  extremely 
stable. 

The  nuclear  family  seldom  existed  as  a  wholly  independent  unit. 
Partly  as  a  result  of  the  social  and  economic  conditions  of  Bolivian 
life,  bonds  of  loyalty,  affection,  and  mutual  responsibility  with  the 
extended  kin  of  both  spouses  were  strong  and  abiding.  Few  of  an 
individual's  activities  or  decisions  did  not,  in  the  Hispanic  view, 
affect  the  wider  circle  of  family  and  kin. 

The  ties  of  solidarity  among  kin  were  expressed  in  an  active  and 
highly  ceremonial  pattern  of  social  life.  The  nuclear  family  spent 
much  of  its  time  making  formal  calls  upon  relatives  and  receiving 
such  calls  in  return.  Weddings,  baptisms,  and  funerals  were  com- 
mand performances,  even  in  cases  involving  distant  relatives.  In- 
deed, visits  to  kin  and  the  round  of  family  fiestas  that  accompanied 
each  transition  in  an  individual's  life  formed  almost  the  entire  so- 
cial life  of  many  women. 

For  the  Quechua-  and  Aymara-speaking  Indians,  family  and  kin 
always  provided  a  first  line  of  defense  against  precarious  economic 
circumstances.  In  many  communities,  the  cooperative  sharing  of 
goods  and  labor  among  members  of  ayllus  bolstered  community 
stability  throughout  the  vagaries  of  the  past  several  centuries.  Ayllus 
exercised  control  over  the  inheritance  and  use  of  lands  held  both 
collectively  and  individually  by  their  members,  and  thus  they  pro- 
tected themselves  from  encroachments  by  outsiders.  Strong  bonds 
of  kinship  and  intermarriage  reinforced  cohesion  and  a  sense  of 
community  within  the  kin- group  and  the  village. 

The  Aymara  and  Quechua  had  a  highly  stable  basic  family  unit. 
Marriage  was  the  most  significant  social  event  in  an  individual's 
life.  An  elaborate  series  of  rituals  marked  the  highland  marriages: 
courtship,  formal  betrothal,  a  number  of  different  wedding  ceremo- 
nies, the  formal  Roman  Catholic  marriage,  the  feast  of  the  mar- 
riage godparents,  the  inheritance  feast,  the  planting  ritual,  and  the 
house  roofing.  The  completion  of  the  full  series  marked  not  just 
a  new  union  of  the  couple  and  their  families  but  the  transition  of 
the  man  and  the  woman  to  full  adulthood  in  the  community's  eyes. 

Although  the  Indian  couple  typically  began  living  together  slightly 
before  the  betrothal,  the  actual  ceremonies  could  extend  over  several 
years.  When  they  were  finally  completed,  the  couple  had  received 
the  wherewithal  to  function  as  an  autonomous  household.  The  com- 
munity had  approved  of  their  new  social  identity  on  numerous 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


occasions.  All  that  they  received  in  the  numerous  ceremonies  involved 
them  in  enough  reciprocal  obligations  to  last  a  lifetime. 

Kinship  ties  at  all  levels  of  Bolivian  society  remained  so  strong 
that  those  unrelated  to  one  another  often  sought  to  establish  bonds 
of  ritual  kinship  through  the  set  of  relationships  among  a  child, 
the  child's  parents,  and  his  or  her  godparents,  known  as  compadrazgo 
(see  Glossary).  In  Hispanic  and  Indian  traditions  alike,  persons 
related  through  compadrazgo — called  compadres — should  manifest  the 
highest  regard  and  loyalty  toward  one  another.  Among  Indians, 
in  addition,  sexual  relations  between  compadres  (and  sometimes  their 
relatives)  were  considered  incestuous  and  strongly  condemned.  For 
many  of  the  historically  dominant  whites,  compadrazgo  extended  the 
bonds  of  kinship  and  formalized  pre-existing  ties  of  friendship.  For 
Indians  and  cholos,  compadrazgo  represented  one  of  the  few  relations 
of  trust  with  members  of  the  dominant  ethnic  groups. 

Godparents  were  commonly  selected  at  baptism  and  marriage. 
The  compadres  of  baptism  had  well-defined  ritual  and  economic  ob- 
ligations at  the  ceremony  itself,  as  well  as  for  the  feast  that  followed. 
The  relationship  established  was  between  the  child's  parents  and 
the  godparents.  The  reciprocal  obligations  linking  the  two  couples 
continued  beyond  the  occasion;  indeed,  the  tie  continued  even  if 
the  godchild  died.  At  marriage,  compadrazgo  established  a  four- way 
relationship  linking  the  couple,  the  compadres,  and  each  spouse's 
parents.  As  in  baptism,  the  godparents  became  obliged  to  contribute 
to  the  marriage  ceremonies  in  specific  ritual  and  material  ways. 
Compadres  had  a  moral  obligation  to  take  an  ongoing  interest  in 
the  success  of  the  union.  If  the  marriage  failed,  they  were  blamed 
as  well  as  the  couple  and  the  respective  families. 

Compadrazgo  ties  often  cut  across  the  boundaries  of  class  and  ethnic 
groups.  Indians  and  cholos  could  ask  wealthy  and  influential  mes- 
tizos or  whites  to  serve  as  godparents.  In  asking  couples  of  higher 
status,  a  person  was  establishing  a  link  of  patronage.  The  lower- 
status  person  expected  to  gain  assistance  in  dealing  with  the  authori- 
ties and  to  share,  by  reflection,  in  his  or  her  status  as  compadre.  In 
return,  the  influential  person  received  occasional  small  gifts  of 
produce  and  personal  services  and,  equally  important,  a  loyal  fol- 
lower. The  choice  of  godparents  was  a  sensitive  barometer  of  eth- 
nic loyalties  and  identification.  Ambitious  cholos,  anxious  for  their 
children's  advancement,  would  chose  higher-status  mestizos  in  the 
hope  that  the  godparents  could  assist  the  child's  education  and 
career. 

Compadres  could  also  be  of  equal  status.  In  this  case,  an  individual 
might  ask  distant  kin,  close  friends,  or  neighbors  to  be  godparents. 
The  advantage  in  asking  neighbors  or  kin  was  that  the  parents  knew 


81 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

their  reputation  and  standing  in  the  community  more  thoroughly. 
Among  compadres  of  equal  status,  individuals  tried  to  match  the  eco- 
nomic resources  of  the  couples  involved,  so  that  the  reciprocal 
obligations  and  gifts  between  the  two  families  would  balance  more 
evenly. 

Migration  and  Urbanization 
Migration 

Migration  has  transformed  social  relations  since  the  1952  Revo- 
lution. Before  the  revolution,  the  average  peasant's  horizons  were 
delineated  by  his  or  her  village,  those  similar  settlements  surround- 
ing it,  and  a  nearby  mestizo  town.  Contact  with  the  world  beyond 
was  limited  to  an  occasional  trip  to  the  landlord's  city  residence 
or  his  other  haciendas.  Few  peasants  had  actually  lived  in  a  city, 
worked  in  the  mines,  or  served  in  the  military. 

By  the  1970s,  however,  most  rural  young  adults  could  expect 
to  spend  at  least  part  of  their  lives  away  from  home.  Many  of  these 
would  migrate  permanently  to  a  city.  Others  would  seek  occasion- 
al wage  labor  to  supplement  their  farm  earnings.  Some  also  mi- 
grated to  foreign  countries,  seeking  seasonal  work  on  plantations 
in  Argentina,  in  the  ports  of  northern  Chile,  or  in  the  Brazilian 
Amazon. 

Rural-to-urban  migration  typically  constituted  a  lengthy  process. 
A  peasant  might  begin  by  working  in  a  city  during  slack  agricul- 
tural periods.  Young  men  and  women  often  had  their  introduc- 
tion to  the  city  through  marketing  their  families'  farm  products. 
In  addition,  military  service  gave  young  men  an  awareness  of  the 
larger  society,  as  well  as  some  experience  in  nonagricultural  work. 

Migration  rarely  represented  a  decisive  break  with  the  commu- 
nity of  origin.  Migrants  maintained  complex,  ongoing,  and  mutu- 
ally fruitful  relations  with  their  natal  communities.  They  also  served 
as  liaisons  with  national  society.  The  migrants'  knowledge  of  Span- 
ish and  greater  familiarity  with  the  government  bureaucracy  were 
invaluable  resources.  Former  residents  became  particularly  impor- 
tant after  the  1953  enactment  of  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law.  In  ad- 
dition to  helping  obtain  land  titles  and  working  out  agreements 
with  the  former  landowners,  they  also  continued  to  mediate  be- 
tween their  villages  and  the  nation. 

Aid  from  kin  and  fellow  villagers  was  essential  to  the  success  of 
migrants.  Earlier  migrants  assisted  those  who  followed  by  provid- 
ing temporary  housing  and  help  in  finding  work.  Most  migrants 
belonged  to  an  association  of  former  residents  of  their  native  vil- 
lage. These  organizations  offered  recreation  and  assistance  to 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


migrants.  The  idiosyncratic  job  choices  of  individual  migrants 
spawned  unique  patterns  of  occupational  specialization.  The  major- 
ity of  the  migrants  from  one  village,  for  example,  became  tailors 
with  the  help  of  an  early  migrant  from  the  same  setdement.  In  other 
instances,  regional  agricultural  specializations  formed  the  basis  for 
occupational  choices;  butchers,  for  example,  often  came  from  catde- 
raising  areas. 

Even  highly  successful,  long-term  migrants  did  not  sever  their 
ties  with  relatives  and  neighbors  in  the  countryside.  Migrants  re- 
tained their  rights  to  land.  Women  and  children  spent  years  in  the 
village  while  husbands  and  fathers  remained  semipermanent  city 
residents.  Families  routinely  returned  to  the  countryside  to  help 
during  harvesting  and  planting.  Grandchildren  spent  their  vaca- 
tions with  grandparents  in  the  village.  Many  migrants  continued 
to  participate  in  community  fiestas,  concrete  evidence  of  their  will- 
ingness to  continue  to  fulfill  community  obligations  beyond  those 
owed  to  kin. 

Bolivian  governments  had  long  promoted  the  notion  of  coloni- 
zation, especially  in  the  lowlands.  Plans  were  first  put  forth  in  the 
1830s,  and  formal  proposals  were  outlined  in  legislation  in  1886, 
1890,  and  1905.  Colonization  did  not  occur,  however,  until  after 
the  1952  Revolution.  One  of  the  goals  of  the  victorious  Nation- 
alist Revolutionary  Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revo- 
lucionario — MNR)  was  to  provide  a  safety  valve  for  population 
pressure  in  the  Altiplano  by  promoting  "Bolivianization"  of  the 
frontier.  Other  objectives  were  to  increase  the  production  of  domes- 
tic food  crops  and  to  integrate  more  farm  families  into  the  national 
economy.  In  the  next  three  decades,  both  government- sponsored 
and  spontaneous  settlements  fueled  a  population  explosion.  The 
main  zones  of  growth  were  the  region  around  Santa  Cruz  (Santa 
Cruz  Department),  the  Alto  Beni  (Beni  Department),  and  the 
Chapare  (Cochabamba  Department).  From  1900  to  1950,  Santa 
Cruz's  population  grew  at  less  than  1  percent  annually;  between 
1950  and  1976,  however,  the  annual  rate  climbed  to  more  than 
4  percent.  The  sheer  numbers  of  migrants  created  a  land-rush 
atmosphere.  In  the  province  of  Obispo  Santisteban  (Santa  Cruz 
Department),  authorities  granted  tides  to  55  percent  more  land  than 
the  province  encompassed. 

Because  most  migrants  came  from  the  overpopulated  Altiplano, 
they  entered  sharply  different  environments.  The  Oriente  had 
a  highly  distinct  regional  culture.  A  unique  dialect  of  Spanish, 
known  as  castellano  camba,  identified  Oriente  natives.  Plantations 
in  the  region,  unscathed  by  the  land  reform,  still  had  a  resident 
labor  force,  but  it  was  not  organized  into  the  cohesive  community 


83 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

characteristic  of  the  traditional  hacienda.  -Farming  and  herding  in 
the  Andes  had  little  in  common  with  the  requirements  of  agricul- 
ture in  the  tropical  lowlands. 

Official  setdement  projects  ranged  in  approach  from  meticulously 
detailed  planned  colonies  to  the  simple  provision  of  a  plot  of  land, 
some  technical  orientation,  and  assistance  in  gaining  a  land  title. 
In  general,  government  projects  suffered  from  a  lack  of  compe- 
tent technicians,  poor  coordination  among  the  various  agencies 
charged  with  assisting  the  colonists,  and  lack  of  continuity  at  the 
upper  administrative  levels.  Land  titles  were  rarely  granted  within 
the  amount  of  time  specified  on  the  project.  Roads  were  neither 
completed  nor  maintained  according  to  plans.  About  half  of  the 
colonists  abandoned  their  plots  and  moved  on  (see  Land  Reform 
and  Land  Policy,  ch.  3). 

Only  about  15  percent  of  the  settlers  who  migrated  to  the  region 
from  the  early  1950s  through  the  early  1980s  came  as  part  of 
government- sponsored  colonies.  Nonetheless,  spontaneous  settle- 
ments, too,  suffered  from  the  poorly  developed  infrastructure. 
Migrants  resorted  to  a  variety  of  methods  to  produce  cash  crops 
and  market  them  without  losing  most  of  the  profit  to  intermedi- 
aries. In  some  colonies,  settlers  cut  their  own  feeder  roads.  Like 
those  in  government- sponsored  settlements,  spontaneous  colonists 
often  had  difficulty  getting  land  titles.  They  lacked  technical  ad- 
vice and  access  to  agricultural  credit.  In  general,  however,  spon- 
taneous settlers  managed  to  form  organizations  and  to  develop 
sufficient  organizational  savvy  and  community  spirit  to  deal  with 
the  logistics  of  establishing  farms  in  the  Oriente.  Surveys  found 
that  income  in  spontaneous  colonies  averaged  75  percent  higher 
than  in  government-sponsored  projects. 

One  of  the  fastest- growing  colonization  regions  in  the  1980s  was 
the  Chapare,  Bolivia's  principal  coca-cultivating  area.  Major  rea- 
sons for  the  influx  of  colonists  to  this  tropical  New  Jersey- size  region 
were  the  completion  of  a  United  States-financed  paved  road  from 
Cochabamba  in  1972  and  the  take-off  of  the  cocaine-exporting  in- 
dustry in  the  late  1970s.  By  1985  the  population  had  burgeoned 
to  120,000,  as  compared  with  80,000  in  1981  and  26,000  in  1967 
(see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5).  Some  press  reports  in  1988-89 
cited  Chapare  population  figures  as  high  as  200,000.  A  1981  sur- 
vey found  that  most  small-scale  farmers  in  the  Chapare  were  former 
highlanders,  mainly  from  the  upper  Cochabamba  Valley  but  also 
from  Potosi  Department,  who  resettled  and  cleared  land  for  food 
and  coca  cultivation. 

The  Oriente  also  attracted  small  numbers  of  Italian,  Japanese, 
Okinawan,  and  North  American  Mennonite  settlers.  In  contrast 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  native  Bolivians,  these  settlers  were  often  more  educated,  had 
better  technical  training,  came  with  more  capital,  received  larger 
parcels  of  land  in  better  locations,  and  had  more  ongoing  support 
from  their  own  governments  or  sponsoring  agencies.  They  usu- 
ally succeeded,  although  the  turnover  in  a  settlement's  early  years 
often  nearly  approximated  the  rates  encountered  in  government 
colonies. 

The  first  settlers  in  a  new  community  typically  consisted  of  a 
group  of  men  who  began  clearing  plots.  Most  brought  their  fami- 
lies to  join  them  as  quickly  as  possible;  beginning  farming  in  the 
tropical  forest  required  the  whole  family's  labor.  A  colony's  founders 
were  frequently  kin  and  compadres;  these  ties  helped  create  a  spirit 
of  cooperation  and  community  solidarity.  Settlers  used  the  same 
kinds  of  strategies  that  had  permitted  Andeans  to  survive  through 
the  centuries.  Colonization  itself  was  an  extension  of  the  "vertical 
archipelago."  Colonists  expanded  their  regional  ties  by  farming 
in  the  new  settiement  zones.  Like  rural-urban  migrants,  they  main- 
tained their  links  with  their  home  villages.  Kin  sent  gifts  of  food; 
colonists  reciprocated  with  items  of  lowland  produce.  Those  with 
land  in  the  Altiplano  continued  to  farm  it  and  spent  a  good  por- 
tion of  the  year  there. 

Community  organizations  were  synonymous  with  the  commu- 
nity itself  in  a  settlement's  early  years.  They  agitated  for  land  titles 
and  maintained  order,  settling  everything  from  marital  disputes 
to  property  boundaries.  They  functioned  as  self-made  extension 
agencies:  their  meetings  were  a  forum  for  sharing  experiences, 
organizing  for  joint  endeavors,  and  overcoming  the  isolation  of  the 
frontier.  The  organizations'  influence  often  waned  as  a  commu- 
nity aged,  reflecting  both  the  politico-economic  climate  and  the  com- 
munity dynamics.  Solidarity  declined  as  some  settlers  moved  on 
and  others  spent  more  time  away  from  their  farms  as  wage  laborers. 
New  settlers,  often  members  of  a  different  ethnic  group,  bought 
out  the  original  colonists,  adding  another  element  of  divisiveness. 

The  migrants'  degree  of  success  varied  considerably.  Some  were 
supported  by  their  families  in  the  Altiplano,  who  did  not  own  enough 
land  for  all  their  children  but  who  could  send  a  son  or  daughter 
to  the  Oriente.  These  moderately  capitalized  migrants  became 
veritable  entrepreneurs  in  the  expanding  Santa  Cruz  economy. 
Many  others  simply  transplanted  a  marginal  subsistence  holding 
from  the  Altiplano  to  the  tropical  forest.  Unsuccessful  colonists 
generally  cleared  subsistence  plots,  farmed  them  for  a  few  years, 
and  then  sold  out  to  more  capitalized  farmers.  Poorer  settlers  moved 
farther  on  toward  the  frontier,  often  clearing  the  land  with  de- 
structive methods.  Many  of  these  settlers  destroyed  tropical  rain 


85 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

forests  without  conferring  either  the  advantages  of  a  stable  system 
of  swidden,  or  slash-and-burn,  agriculture  (which  involved  cutting 
down  the  forest,  burning  the  dried  debris,  and  planting  crops  over 
a  period  of  two  to  three  years)  or  those  of  permanent  cultivation. 

Although  subsistence  farmers  entered  the  cash  economy  to  pur- 
chase a  few  essentials,  they  found  the  terms  of  exchange  distinctly 
unfavorable.  Price  uncertainty  added  to  the  problems  generated 
by  lack  of  knowledge  of  the  tropical  ecosystem.  Cheaper  subsidized 
credit  was  available  only  to  farmers  with  land  titles.  Rural  inter- 
mediaries controlled  most  marketing  and  took  a  hefty  share  of  the 
profits. 

The  poor  subsisted  through  a  variety  of  stratagems.  Even  with 
the  substantial  increase  in  population,  land  reserves  gave  poorer 
families  a  sort  of  "safety  net."  A  one-  to  two-hectare  subsistence 
plot  formed  part  of  an  intricate  mix  of  income- generating  and  sub- 
sistence activities.  The  rural  poor  alternated  between  seasonal  wage 
labor  and  subsistence  agriculture.  Some  lived  in  town  part  of  the 
year  and  found  employment  as  street  vendors,  cargo  carriers,  con- 
struction laborers,  or  domestics. 

The  massive  numbers  of  migrants  had  a  pervasive  impact  on 
regional  society.  Cambas,  native  lowlanders,  felt  a  certain  resent- 
ment against  the  Altiplano  migrants,  Kollas  (see  Glossary).  Each 
characterized  the  other  group  in  predictably  negative  terms. 
Migrants  were  easy  to  identify  on  the  basis  of  language  or  accent. 
Discrimination  against  them  ranged  from  poor  treatment  by  shop- 
keepers to  the  refusal  of  service  at  restaurants.  Santa  Cruz  natives 
of  all  classes  made  common  cause  against  the  newcomers.  Regional 
loyalties  cut  across  class  lines.  Occasionally,  landholders  were  able 
to  recruit  the  support  of  Cambas  through  appeals  to  regional  soli- 
darity. 

Urbanization 

Cities,  serving  as  administrative  and  trade  centers,  were  an  in- 
tegral part  of  colonial  Bolivia.  They  were  the  domain  of  whites  and 
mestizos  who  appropriated  a  share  of  the  agricultural  produce  from 
the  surrounding  Indian  communities.  For  most  of  the  nineteenth 
and  twentieth  centuries,  however,  the  population  as  a  whole  re- 
mained overwhelmingly  rural;  in  1900,  for  example,  a  scant  14 
percent  lived  in  cities  of  more  than  5,000  inhabitants.  Although 
cities  grew  as  mining  and  commerce  expanded,  only  about  one- 
quarter  of  the  population  were  city  dwellers  in  1950. 

Massive  urbanization  on  a  scale  sufficient  to  change  the  face  of 
society  was  a  postrevolution  phenomenon.  From  the  1950s  onward, 
cities  grew  disproportionately  faster  than  rural  Bolivia.  From  1950 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  1976,  the  three  fastest-growing  cities  increased  at  a  rate  of  4.7 
percent  annually;  the  fastest,  Santa  Cruz,  at  6.9  percent.  In  the 
early  1980s,  annual  rates  of  increase  in  cities  were  nearly  triple 
those  of  the  countryside.  The  urban  population  increased  at  3  to 
4  percent  a  year  through  the  1970s  and  most  of  the  1980s. 
Demographers  projected  comparable  rates  to  continue  to  the  end 
of  the  century  (see  fig.  7;  table  3,  Appendix).  Analysts  anticipated 
that  urban  residents  would  constitute  56  percent  of  the  population 
by  the  year  2000. 

La  Paz,  founded  in  1548  as  a  way  station  en  route  from  the  sil- 
ver mines  of  Potosf  to  Lima,  was  the  largest  city  and  had  an  esti- 
mated population  of  992,000  residents  in  1985.  The  population 
of  Santa  Cruz — long  an  insignificant  frontier  outpost — swelled  to 
441,000  as  a  result  of  the  postrevolutionary  development  of  the 
Oriente.  Other  major  cities  included  Cochabamba  (317,000),  Oruro 
(178,000),  and  Potosf  (113,000). 

Bolivia's  pattern  of  urbanization  is  exemplified  in  the  growth 
of  Cochabama.  In  1900  Cochabamba  consisted  of  22,000  residents 
and  included  only  7  percent  of  the  total  departmental  population. 
Over  the  next  half-century,  the  city's  population  expanded  at  2.5 
percent  annually  to  81,000  in  1950,  when  it  contained  16.5  per- 
cent of  the  total  departmental  population.  The  pace  of  urban  growth 
quickened  to  3.5  percent  annually  between  1950  and  1976;  by  1976 
Cochabamba  consisted  of  200,000  residents  and  included  28  per- 
cent of  the  overall  departmental  population.  During  this  period, 
squatters  pushed  far  beyond  the  city's  previous  southern  and  eastern 
limits;  for  example,  Cochabamba' s  airport,  which  had  served  as 
one  part  of  the  southern  boundary,  became  surrounded  by  new 
urban  communities.  Between  1976  and  1986,  urban  growth  inten- 
sified to  4.2  percent  annually  as  the  city  encompassed  31  percent 
of  the  department's  population. 

Migrants  in  search  of  employment  accounted  for  an  increas- 
ing share  of  Cochabamba' s  growth.  Demographers  estimated  that 
64  percent  of  the  city's  population  expansion  between  1976  and 
1986  resulted  from  migration.  By  1986  more  than  one- third  of 
Cochabamba' s  residents  had  been  born  outside  the  city.  The  pat- 
tern of  migration  also  changed  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  In  contrast 
to  the  previous  predominance  of  migrants  from  rural  communi- 
ties in  Cochabamba  Department,  the  percentage  of  migrants  from 
the  Altiplano  climbed  to  40  percent  in  1976,  to  54  percent  in  1983, 
and  to  60  percent  in  1986.  The  increasing  rate  of  migration  re- 
flected the  troubled  state  of  the  Altiplano  economy  rather  than  a 
significant  expansion  of  jobs  in  Cochabamba.  Employment  in  the 
manufacturing  sector,  which  primarily  consisted  of  small-scale 


87 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


National  Capital  0    50  ^100  150  Kilometers 

Populated  place  0     50    100    150  MHe 

Residents  per  square  kilometer 


]     1.9  or  less  10.0-19.9 


1 1  .  *  |     2.0-4.9  20.0  -  29.9 

I        |     5.0  -  9.9  |       I     30.0  or  more 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bolivia,  Instituto  Geografico  Militar,  Atlas  de  Bolivia, 
Barcelona,  1985,  201. 


Figure  7.  Population  Density,  1985 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


establishments,  remained  steady  at  16  percent  of  total  employment 
between  1976  and  1986.  Instead,  most  migrants  found  employ- 
ment in  the  service  sector. 

Religion 

Roughly  95  percent  of  Bolivians  professed  Roman  Catholicism; 
nonetheless,  a  much  smaller  portion  participated  actively.  Religion 
was  traditionally  the  domain  of  women.  Men  felt  no  obligation  to 
attend  church  or  to  practice  their  religion.  The  absence  of  clergy 
in  the  rural  areas  fueled  the  development  of  an  Andean  folk- 
Catholicism  among  Indians.  In  the  decades  following  the  Second 
Vatican  Council  (1962-65),  the  church  tried  to  make  religion  a 
more  active  force  in  social  life. 

Roman  Catholicism  had  its  roots  in  the  Spanish  conquest;  priests 
accompanied  the  first  military  expeditions.  The  church's  organi- 
zation, personnel,  and  role  in  society  were  all  defined  early  in  the 
colonial  era.  Pope  Julius  III  created  the  La  Plata  bishopric  in  1552; 
this  was  followed  by  those  of  La  Paz  and  Santa  Cruz  early  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  A  plethora  of  religious  orders — Franciscans, 
Mercedarians,  Dominicans,  and  Jesuits  were  the  most  prominent — 
joined  diocesan  priests  in  the  colonial  ministry.  The  clergy  were 
largely  of  European  origin.  The  few  mestizos  who  joined  the  ranks 
were  usually  admitted  as  lay  brothers  rather  than  priests. 

The  patronato  real  (an  agreement  between  the  Catholic  Church 
and  the  Spanish  crown)  gave  the  Spanish  throne  and,  by  exten- 
sion, the  colonial  authorities  significant  powers  in  church  affairs. 
Appointments  of  clergy  and  bishops  normally  required  the  approval 
of  civil  authorities.  The  relationship  between  church  and  state  was 
mutual  and  intimate;  each  institution  had  great  influence  on  the 
other's  affairs.  In  a  society  where  separation  from  the  religious 
ministrations  of  the  church  was  unthinkable,  the  church  had  great 
moral  influence. 

In  addition,  the  colonial  church  was  an  extremely  wealthy  insti- 
tution. Religious  organizations  not  only  owned  extensive  tracts  of 
land  but  also  served  as  quasi-official  moneylenders  to  the  landed 
elite  and  high-ranking  officeholders.  By  the  end  of  the  colonial  era, 
a  combination  of  money  lending  and  shrewd  real  estate  investments 
had  made  the  church  the  dominant  financial  power  in  Bolivia. 

Independence  brought  some  changes  to  Bolivian  church-state 
relations.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  retained  its  status  as  the 
nation's  sole  religion.  Except  for  a  brief  period  during  the  1870s, 
this  pattern  continued  throughout  the  nineteenth  century.  At  the 
same  time,  however,  the  new  Bolivian  government  quickly  asserted 
its  primacy  over  the  church.  In  1826  President  Antonio  Jose  de 


89 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Sucre  Alcala  (1825-28)  took  control  over  the  collection  of  church 
tithes,  closed  all  monasteries  with  fewer  than  twelve  persons,  and 
seized  church  lands.  These  actions  permanently  weakened  the 
church  as  a  political  force. 

Further  changes  occurred  in  the  twentieth  century.  In  1906  the 
government  proclaimed  religious  toleration  and  permitted  the  es- 
tablishment of  non-Roman  Catholic  churches.  In  1961  the  govern- 
ment relinquished  its  right  under  the  patronato  national  (the  successor 
to  the  patronato  real)  to  mediate  in  church  affairs.  No  longer  could 
the  government  have  a  voice  in  conciliar  decrees,  briefs,  or  bulls 
that  the  pope  issued  or  play  a  role  in  the  selection  of  high-ranking 
church  officials.  The  Constitution  of  1967  grants  official  status  to 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  but  also  guarantees  the  public  exer- 
cise of  all  other  religions. 

Freed  from  direct  government  control,  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  in  the  1960s  attempted  to  establish  a  more  visible  presence 
in  Bolivian  society.  The  country's  bishops,  organized  into  the 
Bolivian  Bishops  Conference  (Conferencia  Episcopal  Boliviana — 
CEB),  issued  pastoral  letters  condemning  the  living  conditions 
of  peasants  and  workers.  The  bishops  established  development 
centers,  research  organizations,  and  commissions  to  address  these 
problems.  Many  priests,  brothers,  and  sisters  took  a  more  direct 
political  stance.  The  so-called  miner  priests — oblates  assigned  to 
parishes  in  mining  communities — actively  defended  workers'  rights. 
This  experience  led  to  the  formation  in  1968  of  Church  and  Soci- 
ety in  Latin  America-Bolivia  (Iglesia  y  Sociedad  en  America  Latina- 
Bolivia — ISAL-Bolivia).  Employing  a  Marxist  analysis  of  society, 
ISAL-Bolivia  endorsed  socialism  as  the  only  means  of  achieving 
justice. 

The  political  stance  of  ISAL-Bolivia  and  others  engendered  a 
sharp  response  from  the  bishops.  Shortly  after  ISAL-Bolivia  con- 
tended that  capitalism  had  contaminated  the  church,  the  CEB 
stripped  the  organization  of  its  official  Catholic  status.  In  a  subse- 
quent pastoral  letter,  the  bishops  stated  that  although  priests  had 
an  obligation  to  promote  needed  social  change,  they  could  not  iden- 
tify with  specific  political  parties  or  movements.  The  church  hier- 
archy's caution  was  evident  in  its  handling  of  the  Bolivian  Justice 
and  Peace  Commission.  Established  in  1973  as  a  research  arm  of 
the  episcopate,  the  commission  quickly  became  active  in  defend- 
ing the  rights  of  political  prisoners  of  the  military  government  led 
by  Colonel  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez.  The  government  accused  the  com- 
mission of  promoting  subversive  propaganda  and  deported  the  or- 
ganization's key  personnel.  In  their  response,  the  bishops  endorsed 
the  commission's  human  rights  agenda  but  then  suspended  its 

90 


A  church  in  Potosi 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation 


n  Aymara  woman  praying 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation 


91 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

operations  for  two  years.  The  reconstituted  commission  operated 
under  tighter  episcopal  controls  than  did  its  predecessor. 

The  return  of  democracy  in  the  1980s  presented  the  church  with 
a  new  set  of  challenges.  Although  the  CEB  recognized  that  the 
economic  crisis  of  the  early  and  mid-1980s  required  strong  mea- 
sures, it  publicly  questioned  the  wisdom  of  the  stabilization  poli- 
cies adopted  in  1985  by  President  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro.  Endorsing 
the  position  adopted  at  the  Latin  American  Bishops  Conference 
in  Puebla,  Mexico,  in  1979,  the  CEB  suggested  that  Paz  Estens- 
soro's  New  Economic  Policy  (Nueva  Politica  Economica — NPE) 
would  generate  increasing  levels  of  inequality  in  society.  The  bishops 
followed  up  this  pastoral  letter  by  mediating  negotiations  in  1986 
between  the  government  and  the  Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Cen- 
tral Obrera  Boliviana — COB;  see  Political  Forces  and  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4). 

In  1986  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  organized  into  four 
archdioceses  (La  Paz,  Santa  Cruz,  Cochabamba,  and  Sucre),  four 
dioceses,  two  territorial  prelatures,  and  six  apostolic  vicariates.  The 
bishops  had  at  their  disposal  approximately  750  priests,  most  of 
whom  were  foreigners.  The  paucity  of  priests  significantly  ham- 
pered church  activities.  For  example,  the  archdiocese  of  Sucre  only 
had  sixty-two  priests  to  attend  to  the  needs  of  an  estimated  532,000 
Catholics  dispersed  over  50,000  square  kilometers. 

Because  of  the  church's  weak  rural  presence,  the  vast  majority 
of  Indians  followed  their  own  brand  of  folk-Catholicism  far  removed 
from  orthodoxy.  Indians  saw  no  inconsistency  in  mixing  modern 
technology  and  medicine  with  folk  curers  or  indigenous  ritual  with 
professed  Roman  Catholicism.  Indigenous  rituals  and  fragments 
of  Roman  Catholic  worship  were  interwoven  in  the  elaborate  fiestas 
that  were  the  focus  of  social  life. 

The  Quechua  and  Aymara  pantheon  was  a  mix  of  Christian  and 
pre-conquest  spirits  and  beings.  A  deity  like  the  virginal  daughter 
of  the  Inca  sun  god  was  transmuted  into  a  Christian  figure,  in  this 
case  the  Virgin  Mary.  Many  of  the  supernaturals  were  linked  to 
a  specific  place,  such  as  lake  and  mountain  spirits.  The  earth  mother, 
Pachamama,  and  fertility  rituals  played  a  prominent  role. 

In  the  1980s,  Mormons,  Jehovah's  Witnesses,  Seventh-Day  Ad- 
ventists,  and  members  of  a  variety  of  Pentecostal  denominations 
gained  increasing  numbers  of  adherents  among  the  rural  and  urban 
squatter  populations.  Because  these  denominations  tended  to  em- 
phasize individual  salvation  and  to  deemphasize  social  and  politi- 
cal issues,  many  leftists  charged  that  they  were  agents  of  the  United 
States  government.  In  May  1989,  left-wing  terrorists  murdered  two 
Mormon  missionaries  from  the  United  States  who  had  been  working 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  a  squatter  community  near  La  Paz  (see  Subversive  Groups, 
eh.  5). 

Other  denominations  represented  in  Bolivia  included  Methodists 
and  Mennonites.  The  Bahai  faith  had  members  in  over  5,500  lo- 
calities. Bolivia  also  had  a  small  Jewish  community,  which  had  not 
reported  any  discrimination.  In  1988  the  government  stated  that 
numerous  religious  groups  were  operating  in  Bolivia  illegally,  but 
its  attempt  to  expel  some  foreign  members  of  the  Hari  Krishna 
sect  in  1986  was  overturned  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice. 

Education 

Chronic  political  instability  hindered  the  development  of  general 
education  throughout  Bolivia's  history.  In  the  colonial  era,  edu- 
cation was  limited  to  a  few  clergy  acting  as  tutors  for  the  sons  of 
elite  families.  Little  effort  was  made  to  teach  the  Indians  beyond 
the  bare  necessity  to  convert  them.  Independence  brought  a  series 
of  ambitious  decrees  calling  for  universal,  compulsory  primary  edu- 
cation and  a  public  school  system;  nonetheless,  little  was  accom- 
plished. By  1900  schools  existed  primarily  to  serve  urban  elites. 
No  vocational  or  agricultural  institutes  existed  in  the  country.  Only 
17  percent  of  the  adult  population  was  literate. 

A  teaching  mission  from  Belgium  arrived  in  the  early  1900s  and, 
over  a  thirty-year  period,  established  a  foundation  for  rural  primary 
education.  In  1931  Elizardo  Perez  founded  a  large  nuclear  school 
(a  central  school  with  five  to  eight  grades)  near  Lake  Titicaca. 
Smaller  satellite  schools  in  nearby  settlements  supplemented  the 
nuclear  school's  offerings.  This  arrangement  became  the  prototype 
for  rural  education  in  the  Andes. 

Overall,  however,  little  real  expansion  of  educational  opportu- 
nities occurred.  A  1947  law  calling  for  an  end  to  illiteracy  drew 
attention  to  the  government's  limited  capacity  for  action  in  this 
area.  It  required  that  every  literate  Bolivian  teach  at  least  one  other 
to  read  and  write  and  levied  fines  for  adult  illiteracy.  On  the  eve 
of  the  1952  Revolution,  less  than  one-third  of  the  adult  population 
was  literate. 

Legislation  in  1956  laid  the  foundation  for  the  public  educa- 
tion system  in  force  in  the  late  1980s.  The  government  established 
a  six-year  primary  cycle  followed  by  four  years  of  intermediate 
schooling  and  two  years  of  secondary  school  ending  with  the  bac- 
calaureate degree.  Laws  in  1969  and  1973  revised  the  curricula 
and  instituted  a  five-year  primary  cycle,  theoretically  compulsory 
between  the  ages  of  seven  and  fourteen,  followed  by  three  years 
of  intermediate  school  and  four  years  of  secondary  education.  The 
first  two  years  of  secondary  instruction  consisted  of  an  integrated 


93 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

program  that  all  students  followed;  the  second  two-year  cycle  per- 
mitted students  to  specialize  in  the  humanities  or  one  of  several 
technical  fields.  All  courses  led  to  the  baccalaureate  degree,  which 
was  a  prerequisite  for  entering  the  university. 

Higher  education  consisted  of  the  University  of  Bolivia  and  a 
variety  of  public  and  private  institutes.  The  University  of  Bolivia — a 
consortium  of  eight  public  universities  and  one  private  university 
(the  1 ,500-student  Bolivian  Catholic  University) — was  the  only  post- 
secondary  school  that  awarded  degrees.  At  least  four  other  private 
institutions  were  operating  without  legal  authorization  in  1989. 
Other  schools  offered  technical  training  in  the  fine  arts,  commer- 
cial arts,  and  technical  fields,  as  well  as  in  teacher  training. 

The  University  of  Bolivia,  which  enrolled  more  than  100,000 
students  in  1989,  was  embroiled  in  a  bitter  conflict  with  the  Paz 
Estenssoro  government  over  what  academic  leaders  feared  were 
government  plans  to  make  drastic  cuts  in  publicly  financed  higher 
education.  The  government  acknowledged  its  plans  to  promote  pri- 
vate institutions  in  an  attempt  to  reverse  a  general  decline  in  aca- 
demic standards  resulting  from  wide-open  admission  policies.  The 
impasse  over  university  finances  led  to  student  protests  in  1988, 
with  police  intervening  in  the  country's  largest  university,  the  37,000- 
student  San  Andres  University  in  La  Paz. 

The  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture  organized  adult  litera- 
cy classes.  By  the  mid-1980s,  approximately  350  centers  and  more 
than  2,000  teachers  were  dedicated  to  adult  literacy  programs.  More 
than  half  were  in  the  department  of  La  Paz,  where  less  than  one- 
third  of  the  population  lived.  The  program  had  little  impact, 
however;  improvements  in  the  adult  literacy  rate,  which  stood  at 
75  percent  in  the  mid-1980s,  primarily  resulted  from  increased 
primary  school  enrollment.  From  1973  to  1987,  the  percentage  of 
school-aged  children  enrolled  in  primary  schools  climbed  from  76 
to  87  percent  (see  table  4,  Appendix). 

Most  educational  expenditures  went  for  operating  budgets,  es- 
pecially personnel  costs,  leaving  little  for  capital  programs  and  ex- 
pansion. Spending  remained  skewed  in  favor  of  the  urban  areas. 
Approximately  60  percent  of  Bolivia's  59,000  teachers  were  em- 
ployed in  urban  schools.  The  economic  crisis  that  beset  the  coun- 
try in  the  early  to  mid-1980s  had  a  severe  impact  on  educational 
spending.  Analysts  estimated  that  real  education  expenditures  in 
1985  were  less  than  40  percent  of  the  total  recorded  in  1980.  Over 
the  same  period,  the  percentage  of  the  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  devoted  to  education  dropped  from  3  per- 
cent to  less  than  2  percent. 


94 


An  Aymara  woman 
participating  in  informal 
education  training 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


A  literacy  class  in  the 
El  Alto  section  of  La  Paz 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


Although  the  education  system  recorded  some  progress  in  enroll- 
ments in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  serious  problems  remained.  The  num- 
ber of  secondary  school  students  grew  twice  as  fast  as  the  population 
of  that  age-group;  the  university  student  population  grew  more  than 
four  times  faster  than  the  total  population  of  eighteen-  to  twenty- 
four-year  olds.  Still,  secondary  education  remained  beyond  the  grasp 
of  most  Bolivians;  only  35  percent  of  the  eligible  age- group  attended 
secondary  school.  Significant  disparities  also  existed  between  male 
and  female  enrollment  rates.  Efforts  to  increase  female  attendance 
ran  up  against  the  harsh  economic  realities  faced  by  poorer  families 
who  relied  on  their  daughters'  help  with  chores  and  child  care. 

Dropout  rates  also  remained  extremely  high.  Only  one-third  of 
first  graders  completed  the  fifth  grade,  20  percent  started  secon- 
dary school,  5  percent  began  their  postsecondary  studies,  and  just 
1  percent  received  a  university  degree.  Dropout  rates  were  higher 
among  girls  and  rural  children.  Only  about  40  percent  of  rural 
youngsters  continued  their  education  beyond  the  third  grade. 


95 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Finally,  Quechua-  and  Aymara- speaking  children  faced  special 
problems.  Bolivia  had  no  national  program  of  bilingual  education. 
There  were  a  few  moderately  successful  pilot  programs;  in  addi- 
tion, Indian  teachers  often  translated  lessons  while  instructing  their 
classes.  In  general,  however,  Spanish  was  the  language  of  instruc- 
tion at  every  level.  Critics  blamed  the  absence  of  bilingual  educa- 
tion for  the  high  dropout  rates  among  rural  Indian  schoolchildren. 

Health  and  Social  Security 

From  the  mid-1970s  to  the  mid-1980s,  Bolivia  made  slow  but 
steady  progress  in  improving  the  health  conditions  of  its  popula- 
tion. Life  expectancy  rose  from  forty- seven  years  in  1975  to  nearly 
fifty-one  years  in  1985.  During  the  same  period,  the  mortality  rate 
dropped  from  18.4  to  15.9  per  1,000  population,  while  the  infant 
mortality  rate  dropped  from  147.3  to  124.4  per  1,000  live  births. 
The  mortality  rate  in  children  one  to  four  years  of  age  dropped 
from  14.6  per  1,000  population  in  1975  to  10.9  per  1,000  by  1980. 
Despite  these  improvements,  however,  in  the  mid-1980s  Bolivia's 
health  indicators  were  among  the  worst  in  the  Western  Hemisphere. 
Its  life  expectancy  was  the  lowest  in  the  Western  Hemisphere,  and 
its  infant  mortality  rate  was  third  after  that  of  Peru  and  Haiti.  An 
estimated  70  percent  of  the  population  suffered  nutritional  defi- 
ciencies. Only  43  percent  had  access  to  a  safe  water  supply.  Barely 
24  percent  could  avail  themselves  of  adequate  sanitary  facilities. 

Health  conditions  varied  significantly  across  regions  and,  within 
regions,  by  urban  or  rural  residence.  For  example,  disaggregated 
infant  and  childhood  mortality  rates  for  the  mid-1970s  revealed 
significant  regional  and  urban/rural  disparities  (see  table  5,  Ap- 
pendix). Infants  in  the  rural  parts  of  the  Altiplano,  valleys,  and 
Yungas  had  a  far  greater  probability  of  dying  than  those  in  the 
urban  lowlands.  Mortality  rates  for  children  up  to  the  age  of  five 
in  the  departments  of  Potosi  and  Chuquisaca  were  nearly  double 
those  found  in  the  departments  of  Santa  Cruz  and  Beni.  Analysts 
also  noted  disparities  in  rates  among  ethnic  groups.  Rates  were 
highest  among  children  of  mothers  who  spoke  only  an  indigenous 
language,  intermediate  among  bilingual  mothers,  and  lowest  among 
monolingual  Spanish-speaking  mothers. 

Gastrointestinal  diseases,  measles,  and  respiratory  infections 
caused  80  percent  of  infant  mortality.  An  ambitious  vaccination 
program  in  the  early  1980s  brought  a  significant  decline  in  the  num- 
ber of  cases  of  poliomyelitis,  whooping  cough,  tetanus,  and  measles. 
The  number  of  cases  of  diphtheria  climbed,  however,  during  the 
early  1980s. 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Bolivian  health  specialists  also  confronted  a  variety  of  diseases 
that  affected  the  general  population.  A  national  survey  in  the  early 
1980s  revealed  the  presence  of  the  vector  responsible  for  Chagas' 
disease  in  the  homes  of  26  percent  of  the  population.  The  number 
of  cases  of  malaria — primarily  found  in  Beni,  Santa  Cruz,  Tarija, 
and  Chuquisaca  departments — rose  from  9,800  in  1981  to  16,400 
in  1984.  In  1984  the  government  organized  a  mass  campaign  in 
an  effort  to  deal  with  a  malaria  epidemic  in  Beni  Department.  In 
1983  the  government  also  organized  a  major  yellow  fever  vaccina- 
tion program;  the  number  of  cases  of  jungle  yellow  fever  declined 
from  102  in  1981  to  5  in  1984.  Pulmonary  tuberculosis  remained 
a  serious  concern;  over  9,400  cases  were  reported  in  1981.  In  ad- 
dition, during  the  1970s  over  360  miners  per  year  died  from  sili- 
cosis. Finally,  as  of  1987  Bolivia  reported  six  cases  of  acquired 
immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS). 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  government  was  restructuring  its  health 
care  system  to  allow  for  a  more  effective  delivery  of  services. 
Bolivia's  health  network  traditionally  had  been  characterized  by 
a  high  degree  of  fragmentation  and  duplication  of  services.  Although 
the  Ministry  of  Social  Services  and  Public  Health  had  overall 
responsibility  for  the  system,  ten  separate  social  security  funds 
offered  health  services  to  members  insured  through  their  place  of 
employment.  In  addition  to  wasting  scarce  resources,  this  approach 
had  a  heavy  urban  bias.  The  new  approach  called  for  a  unified 
system  under  the  control  of  the  Ministry  of  Social  Services  and 
Public  Health,  with  emphasis  on  preventive  rather  than  curative 
medicine. 

The  total  fertility  rate  (the  number  of  children  a  woman  expected 
to  bear  during  her  reproductive  life)  was  6.0,  and  the  crude  birth 
rate  (per  1,000  population)  was  43  in  the  late  1980s.  Both  had 
declined  but  remained  higher  than  those  of  neighboring  countries. 
Fertility  was  highest  among  rural  women,  non-Spanish  speakers, 
and  women  with  little  or  no  education.  Roughly  one-quarter  of 
all  married  couples  were  using  some  form  of  family  planning. 

Bolivia's  booming  cocaine  industry  was  also  spawning  serious 
health  problems  for  Bolivian  youth.  In  the  1980s,  Bolivia  became 
a  drug-consuming  country,  as  well  as  a  principal  exporter  of  co- 
caine (see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5).  Addiction  to  coca  paste, 
a  cocaine  by-product  in  the  form  of  a  cigarette  called  pitillo,  was 
spreading  rapidly  among  city  youths.  Pitillos  were  abundandy  avail- 
able in  schools  and  at  social  gatherings.  Other  youths  who  worked 
as  coca-leaf  stompers  (pisadores),  dancing  all  night  on  kerosene  and 
acid-soaked  leaves,  also  commonly  became  addicted.  The  pitillo  ad- 
dict suffered  from  serious  physical  and  psychological  side-effects 


97 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

caused  by  highly  toxic  impurities  contained  in  the  unrefined  coca 
paste.  Coca-paste  addiction  statistics  were  unavailable,  and  drug 
treatment  centers  were  practically  nonexistent. 

Social  security  coverage  began  in  the  early  twentieth  century 
when  legislation  created  pension  funds  for  teachers,  the  military, 
bank  employees,  and  civil  servants.  The  prototype  for  modern 
coverage  came  in  the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s  with  laws  cover- 
ing such  benefits  as  disability  insurance,  maternity  care,  medical 
care,  pensions,  and  funeral  benefits.  The  Social  Security  Code  of 
1956  provided  assistance  for  sickness,  maternity,  occupational  risks, 
long-  and  short-term  disability,  pensions,  and  survivors'  benefits. 

In  the  late  1980s,  social  security  programs  only  covered  roughly 
20  percent  of  the  population  (counting  families  of  insured  workers). 
Agricultural  workers  and  the  self-employed — a  significant  portion 
of  the  working  class — were  excluded.  The  percentage  of  the  popu- 
lation covered  was  highest  in  the  mining  department  of  Oruro  (43 
percent)  and  lowest  in  the  departments  of  eastern  Bolivia. 

Worker  and  employer  contributions  financed  most  benefits. 
Taxes  provided  additional  money  for  some  of  the  smaller  funds. 
Since  the  mid-1960s,  retired  workers  in  many  industries  had  es- 
tablished complementary  pension  funds  to  help  protect  their  retire- 
ment benefits  from  the  effects  of  inflation. 

*    *  * 

The  works  of  William  E.  Carter  and  those  of  Hans  C.  Buechler 
and  Judith-Maria  Buechler  offer  useful  analyses  of  Aymara  cul- 
ture. Harold  C.  Osborne's  Indians  of  the  Andes  has  a  thorough,  if 
dated,  description  of  the  Quechua  and  Aymara  Indians.  M.J.  Hard- 
man's  The  Aymara  Language  in  Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context  and  ar- 
ticles by  Dwight  B.  Heath,  William  Leons,  and  Madeline  Barbara 
Leons  describe  ethnic  relations  in  postrevolutionary  Bolivia.  Tristan 
Piatt,  Olivia  Harris,  and  Inge  Maria  Harman  all  present  detailed 
studies  of  contemporary  community  dynamics  among  Quechua 
speakers.  Lesley  Gill's  Peasants,  Entrepreneurs,  and  Social  Change  and 
Connie  Weil's  "Migration  among  Land  Holdings  by  Bolivian 
Campesinos"  both  detail  colonization  of  the  eastern  lowlands.  The 
works  of  Doris  E.  Widerkehr  and  June  Nash  describe  conditions 
among  miners.  Brooke  Larson  traces  the  evolution  of  agrarian  so- 
ciety in  the  Cochabamba  region  between  the  sixteenth  and 
nineteenth  centuries  in  Colonialism  and  Agrarian  Transformation  in 
Bolivia.  For  analyses  of  the  impact  of  the  cocaine  industry  on  rural 
society  in  Bolivia,  Kevin  Healy's  "The  Boom  Within  the  Crisis" 
and  "Coca,  the  State,  and  the  Peasantry  in  Bolivia,  1982-1988" 
are  informative.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations, 
see  Bibliography.) 


98 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Symbolism  on  the  front  of  the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku 


BOLIVIA,  A  RICHLY  ENDOWED  country,  contained  a  mostly 
poor  population.  Despite  abundant  and  diverse  metal  and  min- 
eral deposits,  substantial  hydrocarbon  reserves,  vast  untapped  fertile 
plains,  dense  virgin  forests,  and  numerous  swift  rivers  with  great 
hydroelectric  potential,  the  country's  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — 
see  Glossary)  in  1987  was  only  approximately  US$4.35  billion.  Its 
per  capita  income  of  US$640  made  Bolivia  the  second  poorest  nation 
in  South  America  after  Guyana.  The  economy's  slow  development 
stemmed  in  part  from  the  country's  rugged  and  varied  terrain,  in- 
adequate infrastructure,  lack  of  direct  access  to  international  mar- 
kets, and  underpopulation.  In  addition,  an  endemic  and  debilitating 
political  instability  often  corrupted  and  derailed  the  economic  de- 
velopment process. 

Bolivia  experienced  two  major  revolutions  in  economic  policy 
during  the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  both  of  which  were 
led  by  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro  (1952-56,  1960-64,  and  1985-89). 
In  1952  Paz  Estenssoro' s  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement  rose 
to  power  and  supplanted  a  political  system  dominated  by  the  nar- 
row interests  of  three  tin-mining  families  and  a  landed  oligarchy. 
The  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement  attempted  to  reverse  the 
gross  inequities  that  had  evolved  under  the  previous  order.  The 
central  economic  tenets  of  the  revolution  were  land  reform,  the  na- 
tionalization of  the  tin  mines,  labor  rights,  and  a  leading  role  for 
the  public  sector. 

In  the  ensuing  decades,  however,  Bolivia's  public  sector  swelled 
far  beyond  the  economy's  ability  to  sustain  it.  Although  external 
development  financing  reached  an  unprecedented  level  in  the  1970s, 
it  was  sharply  curtailed  by  the  end  of  the  decade.  Servicing  this 
debt  severely  strained  the  economy  in  the  1980s  and  contributed 
to  a  decline  in  total  output  of  over  4  percent  a  year  between  1980 
and  1986.  Hyperinflation  made  the  currency  worthless  by  the 
mid-1980s.  When  Paz  Estenssoro  again  assumed  the  presidency 
in  1985,  he  introduced  a  stabilization  plan,  backed  by  the  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  that  was  unmatched 
in  its  austerity  and  in  its  attempt  to  totally  restructure  a  Latin 
American  economy  toward  market  mechanisms. 

Mining  dominated  the  economy  from  colonial  times  until  the 
1985  crash  of  the  international  tin  market.  Natural  gas  replaced 
tin  and  other  minerals  in  the  1980s  as  the  leading  export  and  was 
the  hub  of  future  development  strategies.  Agriculture  employed 


101 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

nearly  half  of  the  official  labor  force,  and  government  policies 
favored  increased  diversification  toward  manufactured  agricultural 
products.  In  the  late  1980s,  an  underground  economy  based  on 
contraband,  coca  production,  and  other  commercial  trading  in  the 
informal  sector  (see  Glossary)  also  thrived.  These  unregistered  activ- 
ities, employing  two-thirds  of  the  work  force,  totaled  more  than 
the  official  international  trade. 

Bolivia's  economic  upheavals  in  the  1980s  were  costly  to  work- 
ers, producers,  institutions,  the  national  currency,  and  the  econ- 
omy at  large.  Although  a  moderate  recovery  of  2  percent  in  real 
growth  in  1987  and  3  percent  in  1988  had  begun,  both  medium- 
term  challenges  and  long-term  structural  obstacles  faced  economic 
policymakers.  Debt  was  particularly  well  managed  but  remained 
one  of  Latin  America's  highest  on  a  per  capita  basis.  Foreign  in- 
vestment, an  important  component  of  the  stabilization  plan,  had 
still  not  materialized,  and  political  stability  remained  tenuous.  In 
the  late  1980s,  many  Bolivians  remained  skeptical  of  government, 
which  they  viewed  as  tied  to  a  history  of  corruption,  high  salaries, 
and  incompetence. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

The  Spanish  arrived  in  what  is  present-day  Bolivia  in  1532  and 
replaced  an  Inca  economic  system  based  on  collective  agriculture, 
the  ayllu  (see  Glossary),  and  economic  tributes  to  a  socio-religious 
hierarchy  with  a  system  dominated  by  the  conquistadors  and  the 
Spanish  crown.  They  organized  the  Indians  into  an  encomienda  (see 
Glossary)  system  in  which  they  again  paid  tributes,  now  to  con- 
quistadors, and  toiled  in  the  silver  mines  of  Potosi  under  a  com- 
pulsory labor  system  called  the  mita  (see  Glossary).  Through  the 
exploitation  of  Indian  labor,  the  Spanish  by  the  mid- 1600s  had  con- 
verted Potosi  into  South  America's  most  populated  metropolis  (see 
The  Economy  of  Upper  Peru,  ch.  1). 

Independence  in  1825  did  little  to  improve  the  economic  lot  of 
Bolivia's  Indian  majority.  Indeed,  the  already  unfair  distribution 
of  land,  a  legacy  of  the  encomienda  system,  was  worsened  when  the 
government  abolished  the  land  tenure  system  of  the  Indian  com- 
munities in  1866.  The  system  that  emerged  was  dominated  by 
nearly  feudal  peonage  rather  than  wage  labor. 

By  the  late  1800s,  the  silver  industry  had  suffered  a  sharp  decline 
and  was  replaced  by  tin  mining.  The  tin  industry  benefited  from 
the  new  rail  access  linking  the  country's  mines  to  Pacific  Ocean 
ports  for  the  first  time.  The  rail  access  to  ocean  ports  had  become 
crucial  to  the  Bolivian  economy  by  the  early  1880s  because  Chile 
had  seized  the  country's  outlets  to  the  sea  during  the  War  of  the 


102 


The  Economy 


Pacific,  1879-83  (see  From  the  War  of  the  Pacific  to  the  Chaco 
War,  1879-1935,  ch.  1). 

Bolivia's  tin  industry  boomed  in  the  early  twentieth  century  as 
the  invention  of  the  vacuum-packed  tin  can  and  the  assembly  of 
the  automobile  raised  world  demand  for  tin.  By  the  end  of  World 
War  I,  the  country  was  the  world's  second-leading  producer,  mining 
a  fifth  of  global  output.  The  unprecedented  international  demand 
for  tin,  the  high  concentrations  of  easily  accessed  tin  in  the  new 
mines,  low  taxation,  and  cheap  labor  made  the  industry  highly 
lucrative.  The  nation's  tin  industry  and  the  economy  at  large 
became  completely  dominated  during  the  1920s  by  the  Patino, 
Hochschild,  and  Aramayo  tin-mining  families,  who,  along  with 
the  lawyers  who  defended  them,  were  collectively  known  as  the 
rosea  (see  Glossary).  The  rosea  dominated  not  only  economic  affairs 
but  politics  as  well,  and  it  constituted  a  formidable  elite  in  con- 
junction with  the  landed  oligarchy  that  had  developed  since  1866. 
This  class  contrasted  sharply  with  most  of  the  country's  poor  citi- 
zenry who  worked  the  marginal  agricultural  plots  of  the  highlands 
or  labored  under  appalling  conditions  in  underground  tin  mines. 

The  Great  Depression  in  1929  and  the  devastating  Chaco  War 
(1932-35)  with  Paraguay  marked  the  beginning  of  a  period  of  grow- 
ing disdain  for  the  country's  elite.  The  Great  Depression  caused 
tin  prices  to  plunge,  thereby  hardening  the  plight  of  miners  and 
lowering  the  profits  of  the  rosea.  During  the  Chaco  War,  highland 
Indians  were  enlisted  to  defend  Bolivia's  vast  Chaco  lowlands,  with 
its  rumored  oil  reserves  (see  The  Chaco  War,  ch.  1).  The  war  ex- 
posed highlanders  for  the  first  time  to  their  nation's  vast  tracts  of 
land.  As  Indians  and  organized  labor  began  to  play  a  more  promi- 
nent role  in  national  life  after  the  Chaco  War,  mining  and  landed 
interests  could  no  longer  stop  the  momentum  for  social,  economic, 
and  political  reforms. 

The  principal  economic  goals  of  the  1952  Revolution  were  land 
reform  and  the  nationalization  of  the  tin  mines,  both  of  which  were 
swiftly  enacted.  Even  before  the  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Move- 
ment (Movimiento  Nationalista  Revolucionario — MNR)  could 
implement  its  Agrarian  Reform  Law  on  August  2,  1953,  the  long- 
oppressed  Indians  began  to  seize  the  latifundios.  Two  years  into 
the  reform  program,  the  government  accommodated  49  percent 
of  all  farming  families  who  had  claimed  their  traditional  land. 

The  state  also  expropriated  underutilized  arable  land.  On  Octo- 
ber 31,  1952,  the  government  nationalized  most  of  the  tin  mines 
and  legally  transferred  them  to  the  Mining  Corporation  of  Bolivia 
(Corporacion  Minera  de  Bolivia — Comibol),  which  dominated 


103 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

mining  activity  until  1985.  Much  of  the  elite  fled  the  country  or 
resettled  in  the  underpopulated  department  of  Santa  Cruz. 

The  MNR's  postrevolutionary  economic  policies  focused  on  the 
public  sector,  especially  Comibol  and  the  Bolivian  State  Petrole- 
um Company  (Yacimientos  Petrolfferos  Fiscales  Bolivianos — 
YPFB),  as  the  spearhead  of  economic  growth.  The  MNR  also 
promoted  cooperatives,  particularly  in  mining  and  agriculture,  as 
an  alternative  to  the  latifundios.  The  government  enacted  social 
reforms,  such  as  universal  suffrage,  and  forged  a  greater  role  for 
organized  labor  in  society.  Although  most  of  its  economic  policies 
were  not  conventional,  the  revolutionary  government  did  accept 
a  stabilization  plan  backed  by  the  IMF  in  1956  and  1957  in  an 
effort  to  reverse  negative  growth  and  serious  inflation. 

Economic  growth  averaged  4.5  percent  from  1965  to  1980,  lower 
than  the  growth  rate  in  most  Latin  American  economies.  Miner- 
als still  dominated  the  nation's  economy,  however;  tin  accounted 
for  40  percent  of  exports  and  1 5  percent  of  government  revenues 
as  late  as  1980.  Natural  gas  and  oil  reduced  that  dependency  some- 
what beginning  in  the  early  1970s,  but  not  enough  to  insulate  the 
economy  from  commodity  price  swings.  Protracted  disputes  be- 
tween the  government  and  labor  also  characterized  this  period. 

Economic  growth  accelerated  during  the  1970s,  averaging  5.5 
percent  a  year,  one  of  the  fastest  rates  of  expansion  in  Bolivian 
history.  This  expansion  resulted  primarily  from  higher  export  com- 
modity prices.  Large  public  sector  spending  also  spurred  economic 
output  as  external  financing  cushioned  budget  deficits.  The  brisk 
rise  in  output  also  occurred  in  part  because  of  sharp  restrictions 
on  organized  labor  imposed  by  the  military  government  of  Hugo 
Banzer  Suarez  (1971-78).  Political  stability  and  higher  commod- 
ity prices  in  turn  favored  greater  foreign  investment,  which  also 
improved  national  accounts.  Moreover,  the  government  announced 
large  reserves  of  oil  during  the  1970s.  Although  revised  downward 
years  later,  the  oil  discoveries  improved  Bolivia's  creditworthiness 
with  foreign  commercial  banks. 

The  economic  expansion  of  the  1970s  also  contributed  to  rapid 
growth  of  the  Santa  Cruz  area.  Partly  because  the  government  fa- 
vored that  region,  but  also  because  of  increased  colonization,  higher 
cotton  and  soybean  prices,  and  infrastructure  developments,  the 
area  flourished.  For  a  time,  the  city  of  Santa  Cruz  threatened  to 
overtake  La  Paz  as  the  nation's  most  important  financial  center. 

By  the  1980s,  the  public  sector  had  ballooned  to  encompass  520 
agencies,  including  120  federal  agencies  and  50  state-owned  enter- 
prises or  financial  institutions.  Comibol  accounted  for  65  percent 
of  all  mineral  production,  YPFB  produced  80  percent  of  all  oil  and 


104 


The  Economy 


natural  gas,  and  the  government  owned  over  half  of  the  banking 
system's  assets.  The  government  also  controlled  the  manufacture 
of  glass,  textiles,  cement,  dairy  products,  oils,  and  sugar,  mostly 
through  the  Bolivian  Development  Corporation  (Corporacion 
Boliviana  de  Fomento — CBF),  then  the  nation's  principal  develop- 
ment bank.  Public  sector  corruption  had  become  common,  and 
certain  government  agencies  increased  their  scope  solely  to  expand 
their  influence  in  the  bureaucracy. 

Bolivia's  minor  "economic  miracle"  of  the  1970s  began  to 
weaken  in  1978  when  political  instability  returned  in  force.  Sev- 
eral foreign  commercial  banks  reassessed  Bolivia's  ability  to  ser- 
vice its  nearly  US$3  billion  debt,  most  of  which  had  been  acquired 
by  the  Banzer  government.  External  financing  from  private  sources 
came  to  a  complete  halt  by  the  early  1980s;  in  the  absence  of  ex- 
ternal financing  to  cover  increasingly  large  budget  deficits,  the 
government  opted  for  the  inflationary  policy  of  printing  more 
money.  The  value  of  the  peso  dropped  rapidly,  and  high  interna- 
tional interest  rates  multiplied  the  debt. 

By  1985  the  nation's  per  capita  income  had  fallen  below  1965 
levels,  and  rampant  hyperinflation  ravaged  the  Bolivian  economy. 
Prices  escalated  so  rapidly  that  inflation  reached  over  24,000  per- 
cent by  1985.  Barter  flourished  as  money  was  seen  as  virtually 
worthless.  The  coca  and  cocaine  industry  propped  up  the  econ- 
omy and  flooded  the  financial  system  with  United  States  dollars. 
In  order  to  restore  public  confidence  in  the  national  currency,  the 
Hernan  Siles  Zuazo  government  (1982-85)  announced  a  "dedol- 
larization"  decree  that  outlawed  the  dollar  deposits  and  loans  used 
by  90  percent  of  the  economy.  The  policy  caused  massive  capital 
flight,  burdened  the  banking  system  by  forcing  it  to  convert  into 
greatly  overvalued  and  essentially  worthless  pesos,  and  destroyed 
the  nation's  deposit  base.  From  1979  to  1985,  successive  Bolivian 
heads  of  state  negotiated  six  tentative  stabilization  programs  (paquetes 
economicos)  with  the  IMF,  but  none  was  implemented  because  of 
the  lack  of  political  continuity  and  the  strength  of  the  political  op- 
position (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4). 

In  August  1985,  President  Paz  Estenssoro  promulgated  Bolivia's 
New  Economic  Policy  (Nueva  Politica  Economica — NPE).  The 
NPE's  main  feature  was  the  floating  of  the  peso  with  the  United 
States  dollar  (see  Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Policies,  this  ch.). 
The  plan  also  liberalized  import  policies  by  introducing  a  uniform 
tariff  of  20  percent.  In  addition,  the  NPE  called  for  a  radical  re- 
structuring of  the  public  sector,  including  the  dismantling  of  the 
CBF,  the  laying  off  of  20,000  of  Comibol's  27,000  employees,  the 
partial  privatization  of  the  Mining  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Minero 


105 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

de  Bolivia — Bamin),  the  reduction  by  one-third  of  YPFB's  work 
force,  and  a  virtual  spending  freeze  for  all  state-owned  enterprises. 
The  policy  also  deregulated  the  economy,  legalized  dollars,  elimi- 
nated subsidies,  and  lifted  price  controls.  Although  drastic,  the  NPE 
succeeded  in  suffocating  rampant  hyperinflation;  within  a  few 
months,  inflation  had  dropped  to  an  annual  rate  of  10  to  20  percent. 

The  international  tin  market  collapsed  in  October  1985,  adding 
to  Bolivia's  problems  with  hyperinflation,  recession,  and  austere 
stabilization.  Declaring  an  end  to  the  tin  era,  the  government  fur- 
ther encouraged  the  diversification  and  privatization  of  the  econo- 
my. It  also  enacted  a  major  tax  reform  measure  in  May  1986  that 
lowered  the  country's  highest  tax  bracket  from  30  to  10  percent 
and  simultaneously  instituted  a  general  value-added  tax  (VAT — 
see  Glossary).  Economists  generally  perceived  the  1986  tax  reform 
as  an  important  policy  tool  in  continuing  to  stabilize  the  economy. 

The  crash  of  the  tin  market  and  the  NPE's  austerity  program 
led  to  an  estimated  unemployment  rate  of  21.5  percent  by  1987 
(the  unemployment  rate  had  risen  steadily  from  5.5  percent  in  1978 
to  10.9  percent  in  1982,  15.5  percent  in  1984,  and  20  percent  in 
1986.)  In  response,  the  government  promulgated  the  Reactivation 
Decree  in  July  1987.  Under  the  decree,  the  government  created 
the  Emergency  Social  Fund — financed  in  part  by  West  European 
and  Latin  American  governments  as  well  as  the  World  Bank  (see 
Glossary) — to  develop  public  works  projects  to  activate  the  unem- 
ployed. The  decree  also  fostered  export  activity  by  introducing  tax 
rebates  for  exporters  and  by  establishing  the  National  Institute  for 
Export  Promotion.  In  addition,  the  1987  reactivation  measures  in- 
cluded sophisticated  financing  schemes  aimed  at  eliminating  the 
country's  debt  with  commercial  banks  (see  Balance  of  Payments; 
Debt,  this  ch.). 

Economic  Policy 
Fiscal  Policy 

Bolivia's  fiscal  policies  in  the  1970s  contributed  to  the  hyper- 
inflation of  the  early  1980s.  Fiscal  deficits  grew  as  the  public  sec- 
tor took  advantage  of  windfalls  from  high  commodity  prices,  easy 
access  to  deficit  financing  in  international  markets,  and  robust  eco- 
nomic growth  to  increase  its  activities.  As  external  financing  slowed 
in  1978  and  debt  payments  outgrew  new  financing,  budget  deficits 
began  to  directly  influence  the  economy.  With  the  onset  of  the  inter- 
national recession  of  1982,  the  economy  began  an  inflationary  spiral 
both  caused  and  accelerated  in  large  part  by  fiscal  mismanagement. 
Because  Bolivia  had  no  bond  market  in  the  early  1980s  and  lacked 


106 


The  Economy 


external  financing,  fiscal  deficits  could  be  paid  for  only  by  the  highly 
inflationary  practice  of  printing  more  money.  Combined  with  a 
series  of  other  trends  in  the  economy,  inflation  and  deficits  fueled 
more  of  the  same.  As  hyperinflation  raged  in  1984  and  1985, 
government  revenues  as  a  percentage  of  GDP  dropped  to  as  low 
as  1  percent.  Tax  rates,  most  of  which  were  not  indexed,  became 
completely  distorted;  even  worse,  by  the  time  the  government 
received  the  revenues,  they  were  virtually  worthless. 

NPE  reforms  drastically  affected  fiscal  policy  on  both  the  expen- 
diture and  the  revenue  sides.  In  an  effort  to  reduce  government 
spending,  the  government  liquidated  the  CBF  and  restructured  the 
two  largest  and  most  costly  state-owned  operations,  Comibol  and 
YPFB.  It  also  imposed  spending  controls  on  the  public  sector  and 
froze  its  wages.  On  the  revenue  side,  it  unified  import  tariffs  and 
hired  a  Swiss  company  to  collect  import  receipts.  The  government 
raised  the  price  of  oil  by  a  factor  of  ten,  which  immediately  con- 
tributed badly  needed  revenue.  In  1986  the  government  also 
adopted  an  aggressive  policy  toward  tax  collections,  with  drama- 
tic results.  The  public  sector  deficit  dropped  from  28  percent  of 
GDP  in  1984  to  3.8  percent  in  1986.  Deficits  increased  to  10.5  per- 
cent in  1987  because  of  Argentina's  failure  to  make  its  payments 
for  natural  gas  but  again  fell  to  6  percent  by  1988. 

Expenditures 

As  a  result  of  the  profound  changes  in  fiscal  policy  during  the 
late  1980s,  government  spending  was  greatly  curtailed  and  was 
directly  budgeted  according  to  projected  revenues  and  external 
financing.  Moreover,  government  expenditures,  including  systemic 
review  processes  for  investment,  became  more  responsible  and  tar- 
geted. In  1987  public  sector  expenditures  equaled  about  30  per- 
cent of  GDP,  and  the  budget  deficit  of  nearly  11  percent  was 
financed  almost  completely  with  official  external  finance.  The  bud- 
get was  typically  divided  into  four  spending  components:  central 
government,  financial  and  nonfinancial  state-owned  enterprises, 
departmental  budgets,  and  municipalities.  Over  60  percent  of  ex- 
penditures went  toward  government  salaries  and  debt  payments. 
Debt  payments,  which  were  as  high  as  30  to  40  percent  of  expen- 
ditures in  the  early  1980s,  were  below  20  percent  by  the  late  1980s 
because  of  the  rescheduling  of  Bolivia's  debt  terms.  Capital  expen- 
ditures had  reached  dangerously  low  levels  as  a  consequence  of  the 
fiscal  crisis.  Although  budgeted  at  13  percent  of  GDP  in  1987,  actual 
capital  expenditures  were  approximately  5  percent  of  GDP,  indicat- 
ing that  long-term  development  projects  lacked  financing.  Over 


107 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


half  of  all  government  capital  expenditure  in  the  1987-90  fiscal  plan 
was  destined  for  investment  in  transportation  and  hydrocarbons. 

Revenues 

Until  the  mid-1980s,  two  state  agencies,  Comibol  and  YPFB, 
accounted  for  the  overwhelming  share  of  government  revenues. 
Besides  tin  and  hydrocarbons,  few  domestic  taxes,  such  as  income 
taxes  or  sales  taxes,  contributed  to  the  national  treasury.  Tax  eva- 
sion was  widespread,  and  many  businesses  were  reputed  to  main- 
tain two  sets  of  accounting  books,  one  authentic  and  one  for 
government  tax  collectors.  Furthermore,  the  tax  system  was  ex- 
tremely complex  and  involved  thousands  of  different  taxes  that  fre- 
quently skewed  incentives  for  producers. 

The  adoption  of  a  comprehensive  tax  reform  package  in  May 
1986  signaled  a  radical  change  in  government  revenue  policy.  The 
government  established  the  Ministry  of  Taxation,  computerized 
the  tax  system,  collected  taxes  aggressively,  and  made  jail  sentences 
compulsory  for  evasion  and  fraud.  In  great  contrast  to  the  previ- 
ous tax  schedule,  the  1986  package  established  only  six  taxes.  The 
crux  of  the  new  tax  system  was  a  10  percent  VAT  on  the  produc- 
tion of  all  goods  and  services.  The  VAT  was  accompanied  by  a 
complementary  tax,  which  essentially  functioned  as  an  income  tax, 
exacting  10  percent  of  income,  rents,  royalties,  dividends,  and  other 
sources  of  income.  This  cut  the  top  income  tax  bracket  from  30 
to  10  percent.  The  VAT  tax,  however,  was  deductible  from  the 
income  tax,  and  with  both  taxes  equal  to  10  percent,  there  was 
little  incentive  to  cheat  on  the  other  tax.  On  the  contrary,  after 
1985  the  private  sector's  concern  with  receipts  began  to  rectify  the 
tax  system. 

Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Policies 

The  Central  Bank  (Banco  Central)  managed  monetary  policy 
and  regulated  the  nation's  financial  system.  Established  in  1928, 
the  Central  Bank  controlled  the  money  supply,  restrained  infla- 
tion, regulated  credit,  issued  currency,  and  auctioned  foreign  ex- 
change. In  1985,  however,  the  Central  Bank  helped  to  create 
hyperinflation  as  it  circulated  unprecedented  quantities  of  pesos. 
Hyperinflation  ravaged  the  financial  sector,  virtually  wiping  out 
the  country's  deposit  base  and  leaving  many  of  the  country's  fi- 
nancial institutions  insolvent  by  the  end  of  the  1980s.  Under  Paz 
Estenssoro's  leadership,  the  Central  Bank  deregulated  the  finan- 
cial sector  beginning  in  1985  by  legalizing  deposits  in  United  States 
dollars,  freeing  up  interest  rates,  and  adjusting  reserve  ratio  re- 
quirements. In  the  late  1980s,  the  Central  Bank's  activities  focused 

108 


The  Economy 


on  keeping  inflation  in  check,  improving  the  financial  viability  of 
government  banks  and  enterprises,  and  resuscitating  and  improv- 
ing the  ailing  commercial  banking  system. 

The  peso,  which  replaced  the  boliviano  in  January  1963,  was 
a  stable  currency  until  it  was  devalued  in  1972  and  remained  at 
$b20  =  US$1  throughout  the  1970s.  As  the  economy  deteriorated 
in  the  early  1980s,  the  value  of  the  peso  slid  drastically  from 
$b25  =  US$l  in  1980-81  to  $b64  =  US$l  in  1982,  $b230  =  US$l 
in  1983,  $b2,178  =  US$1  in  1984,  and  finaUy  $b75,000  =  US$1  by 
1985.  That  rate,  however,  was  the  enormously  overvalued  official 
rate;  the  black  market  demanded  a  rate  of  over  $bl  million  =  US$1 . 

The  NPE's  decision  to  float  the  peso  against  the  dollar  caused 
an  immediate  devaluation  to  $bl  .5  million  =  US$1  in  August  1985. 
Furthermore,  the  black  market  was  legalized  as  the  government 
expected  to  keep  the  national  currency  at  market  rates.  In  Janu- 
ary 1987,  the  new  boliviano  replaced  the  peso  as  the  official  cur- 
rency. The  new  currency  effectively  slashed  off  the  last  six  zeros 
of  the  old  peso  to  redress  the  damage  done  to  the  currency  by 
hyperinflation.  By  1988  the  currency  was  relatively  stable  at 
B2.3  =  US$1,  and  the  difference  between  the  official  rate  and  the 
black  market,  or  parallel  rate,  did  not  exceed  1  percent.  The  float- 
ing of  the  boliviano  was  administered  by  the  Central  Bank,  whose 
Committee  for  Exchange  and  Reserves  held  a  daily  auction  of  for- 
eign exchange  called  the  bolsi'n.  The  new  system  also  removed  all 
taxes  and  commissions  on  the  purchase  of  foreign  exchange. 

Exchange  rate  policies  were  an  important  element  in  Paz  Estens- 
soro's  stabilization  and  reactivation  policies.  The  initially  drastic 
devaluation  of  the  peso  in  1985  helped  restore  confidence  in  the 
national  currency  after  it  had  lost  most  of  its  value.  The  stabilized 
currency  and  the  end  of  speculation  were  leading  factors  in  the  over- 
all economic  stability  that  emerged  after  1985.  On  the  one  hand, 
the  lower  exchange  rate  constrained  imports  by  making  them  more 
expensive,  which  hurt  the  poor  and  the  manufacturers  the  most; 
on  the  other  hand,  the  exchange  rate  functioned  as  an  incentive 
for  exporters,  whose  products  became  cheaper  and  more  competi- 
tive in  international  markets.  Although  nontraditional  exports 
responded  positively  and  helped  to  reactivate  the  economy,  lower 
prices  for  natural  gas  and  tin  prevented  the  floating  exchange  rate 
policy  from  improving  the  country's  balance  of  payments,  at  least 
in  the  late  1980s  (see  Foreign  Trade,  this  ch.). 

Labor 

Formal  Sector 

Bolivia's  official  labor  force  reached  1.6  million  in  1986,  roughly 


109 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

half  of  the  economically  active  population  or  about  a  quarter  of 
the  total  population.  Labor  statistics  varied  widely  because  of 
methodological  reasons  and  because  of  the  large  role  of  the  infor- 
mal economy,  which  contained  both  legal  and  illegal  components 
(see  Informal  Sector,  this  ch.).  Men  made  up  approximately  75 
percent  of  the  official  labor  force  and  64  percent  of  the  economi- 
cally active  population.  In  actuality,  however,  women  played  a 
greater  role  than  suggested  by  official  statistics,  particularly  in  rural 
areas  and  in  the  urban  informal  sector.  During  the  1980s,  the 
growth  rate  of  the  female  labor  force  was  nearly  double  that  of 
males.  The  labor  force  as  a  whole  grew  2.7  percent  annually  in 
the  1980s.  In  the  late  1980s,  nearly  half  of  all  workers  were  in 
agriculture  (46  percent),  followed  by  services  (34  percent)  and  in- 
dustry (20  percent).  Although  services  had  grown  since  1950  at 
the  expense  of  agriculture,  Bolivia  still  contained  the  second  most 
agricultural  economy  in  South  America  in  the  late  1980s,  behind 
Paraguay,  and  the  second  least  industrial  economy,  after  Peru.  The 
nation's  unemployment  rate,  which  averaged  just  under  6  percent 
during  the  1970s,  climbed  to  10.9  percent  in  1982,  13  percent  in 
1983,  15.5  percent  in  1984,  and  18  percent  in  1986.  It  was  esti- 
mated at  21.5  percent  in  1987.  Unemployment  in  the  highlands 
tended  to  be  about  double  that  of  the  eastern  plains  (llanos)  or 
lowlands  (Oriente). 

Workers  were  concentrated  in  the  cities  of  La  Paz  (40  percent), 
Santa  Cruz  (20  percent),  and  Cochabamba  (20  percent).  Salaries 
varied  considerably  by  location  and  sector.  Urban  incomes  were 
much  greater  than  those  in  rural  areas,  and  the  lowest  official 
salaries  occurred  in  the  southern  highlands.  Workers  in  the  bank- 
ing and  hydrocarbon  sectors  were  among  the  best  paid,  whereas 
those  in  mining,  education,  and  services  received  among  the  lowest 
wages,  depending  on  shifts  in  the  economy  and  wage  negotiations. 
The  average  real  wage  declined  throughout  the  economy  during 
the  1980s.  Skilled  and  semiskilled  labor  was  scarce,  and  inadequate 
training  persisted. 

Organized  labor  had  been  the  most  important  interest  group  in 
the  Bolivian  economy  since  1952.  The  country's  labor  unions  were 
some  of  the  strongest  in  Latin  America  and  were  characterized  by 
their  activism,  militancy,  discipline,  violence,  and  political  in- 
fluence. One  knowledgeable  analyst  estimated  that  Bolivia  had  as 
many  labor  strikes,  protests,  and  demonstrations  in  proportion  to 
its  population  as  any  country  in  the  world.  The  Bolivian  Labor 
Federation  (Central  Obrera  Boliviana — COB),  an  umbrella  organi- 
zation for  the  country's  more  than  150,000  union  members,  domi- 
nated the  nation's  labor  unions.  The  COB  routinely  mobilized 


110 


Labor  marchers  in  La  Paz 
Building  a  sheep-breeding  facility  at  Lake  Titicaca 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


111 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

member  unions  to  stage  roadblocks,  marches,  hunger  strikes, 
demonstrations,  and  work  stoppages  over  wage  demands,  work- 
ing conditions,  political  issues,  and  job  benefits.  The  COB's  most 
powerful  affiliate  was  traditionally  the  Trade  Union  Federation  of 
Bolivian  Mineworkers  (Federacion  Sindical  de  Trabajadores 
Mineros  de  Bolivia — FSTMB).  Despite  the  power  of  organized 
labor  in  the  mining  industry,  working  conditions  in  the  mines  re- 
mained deplorable,  and  the  average  miner  died  of  silicosis  after 
ten  years  of  working  underground. 

NPE  policies,  particularly  the  Comibol  layoffs,  weakened  the 
FSTMB.  As  a  result,  the  General  Trade  Union  Confederation  of 
Peasant  Workers  of  Bolivia  (Confederation  Sindical  Unica  de 
Trabajadores  Campesinos  de  Bolivia — CSUTCB)  was  challenging 
the  FSTMB 's  traditional  dominance  in  the  late  1980s.  Approxi- 
mately 90  percent  of  all  small  farmers  were  members  of  organiza- 
tions affiliated  with  the  CSUTCB.  The  Tupac  Katari  National 
Federation  of  Bolivian  Peasant  Women  (Federacion  Nacional  de 
Mujeres  Campesinas  de  Bolivia  Tupac  Katari)  was  also  widespread 
(see  Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4).  Most  nonunionized 
labor  was  in  the  informal  sector. 

Informal  Sector 

Definitions  of  Bolivia's  informal  sector  varied  in  the  late  1980s 
but  generally  included  nonprofessional,  self-employed,  unpaid  family 
workers,  domestic  servants,  and  businesses  with  five  or  fewer  em- 
ployees. Although  primarily  associated  with  La  Paz,  the  informal 
sector  also  included  a  rural  component  and  an  illegal  component 
linked  to  the  coca  industry.  The  urban  and  legal  informal  sector 
was  estimated  to  contribute  about  1 2  percent  of  GDP  and  employ 
as  much  as  60  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  the  mid-1980s.  Most 
analysts  believed  that  the  sector  increased  in  the  late  1980s  because 
of  public  sector  layoffs  and  the  depressed  mining  industry. 

The  informal  sector  was  characterized  by  ease  of  entry,  the  family 
nature  of  work,  the  informal  uses  of  credit,  and  the  evasion  of  cer- 
tain government  regulations,  especially  regarding  the  sale  of  smug- 
gled goods.  Two  household  surveys  of  La  Paz  in  the  1980s  found 
that  the  income  of  small  proprietors  in  the  informal  sector  aver- 
aged as  much  as  twelve  times  the  minimum  wage  (which  was 
equivalent  to  US$425  per  month  in  1988);  the  income  of  the  self- 
employed,  who  made  up  about  half  of  the  informal  sector,  was  twice 
the  minimum  wage.  By  contrast,  salaried  workers,  unpaid  family 
workers,  and  domestic  servants  typically  made  only  one-half  of  the 
minimum  wage.  Workers  in  the  informal  sector,  however,  generally 


112 


The  Economy 


endured  the  recession  of  the  1980s  better  than  their  formal  sector 
counterparts,  and  there  was  a  trend  toward  a  convergence  of  in- 
comes. 

The  most  lucrative  informal  activity  was  in  transportation,  usu- 
ally unregistered  buses  or  taxis.  Other  informal  services  included 
laundry,  mechanical  repair,  electrical  services,  black  market  cur- 
rency transactions,  and  money  lending.  The  most  common  activities 
were  makeshift  family  grocery  stores  and  the  sale  of  food,  cloth- 
ing, and  smuggled  consumer  items.  Seamstresses,  weavers,  car- 
penters, and  butchers  performed  the  bulk  of  informal  industrial 
work.  The  government's  VAT  was  in  part  aimed  at  netting  more 
revenues  from  small  producers  who  remained  outside  government 
regulation. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture's  role  in  the  economy  in  the  late  1980s  expanded 
as  the  collapse  of  the  tin  industry  forced  the  country  to  diversify 
its  productive  and  export  base.  Agricultural  production  as  a  share 
of  GDP  was  approximately  23  percent  in  1987,  compared  with  30 
percent  in  1960  and  a  low  of  just  under  17  percent  in  1979  (see 
fig.  8).  The  recession  of  the  1980s  and  unfavorable  weather  condi- 
tions, particularly  droughts  and  floods,  however,  hampered  out- 
put. Agriculture  employed  about  46  percent  of  the  country's  labor 
force  in  1987.  Most  production,  with  the  exception  of  coca,  focused 
on  the  domestic  market  and  self-sufficiency  in  food.  Agricultural 
exports  accounted  for  only  about  1 5  percent  of  total  exports  in  the 
late  1980s,  depending  on  weather  conditions  and  commodity  prices 
for  agricultural  goods,  hydrocarbons,  and  minerals. 

Like  the  economy  at  large,  agriculture  faced  major  structural 
obstacles  that  kept  it  from  reaching  its  vast  potential.  The  lack  of 
roads  and  easy  access  to  ports  hindered  farmers  from  getting  their 
produce  to  domestic  markets  and  to  the  export  markets  that  pro- 
vided the  most  potential  for  the  sector's  growth.  A  lack  of  credit 
for  farmers  was  another  long-standing  problem,  caused  by  govern- 
ment policies,  the  use  of  credit  for  political  ends,  and  the  strict  lend- 
ing procedures  of  the  commercial  banking  sector.  Bolivia  also 
suffered  from  the  worst  farming  technology  in  South  America  and 
an  insufficient  network  of  research  and  extension  institutions  to 
reverse  that  trend.  The  combined  lack  of  infrastructure  and  tech- 
nology made  farmers  vulnerable  to  almost  yearly  droughts  and 
floods.  The  traditional  use  of  pricing  policies  ensuring  lower  food 
prices  for  urban  residents  also  lessened  incentives  for  farmers.  In 
addition,  farmers  increasingly  had  to  compete  with  contraband 
imports  in  a  wide  range  of  agricultural  products.  Beyond  these 


113 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


FY  1987  -GDP   US$4.35  billion 

Electricity,  gas,  and  water 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Gary  C.  Groves,  "Bolivia:  Agricultural  Situation 
Report,"  Washington,  March  30,  1988,  19. 

Figure  8.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  FY  1987 

specific  obstacles,  agriculture,  like  all  sectors  of  the  economy,  also 
suffered  from  the  country's  periodic  political  instability,  economic 
mismanagement,  and  slow  economic  growth. 

Land  Tenure 

Before  the  1952  Revolution,  Bolivia's  land  distribution  was  the 
worst  in  Latin  America;  some  4  percent  of  all  landowners  possessed 
more  than  82  percent  of  the  land.  A  major  success  of  the  land  re- 
form program  was  the  redistribution  of  nearly  50  percent  of  peasant 
lands  within  its  first  two  years.  Although  greatly  improved  from 
the  prerevolutionary  period,  broad  disparities  in  land  tenure  re- 
mained in  the  1980s.  Analysts  estimated  that  over  90  percent  of 
the  farms  in  the  highlands  and  valleys  remained  under  twenty  hect- 
ares in  the  1980s.  These  farms  typically  were  one  to  three  hectares 
in  size  and  were  worked  by  nearly  80  percent  of  Bolivia's  more 


114 


The  Economy 


than  700,000  farmers.  The  majority  of  farmers  in  the  highlands 
were  also  members  of  agricultural  cooperatives.  Only  40  percent 
of  the  farms  in  the  eastern  and  northern  lowlands  were  under  twenty 
hectares;  the  most  common  size  in  that  region  was  fifty  to  seventy- 
five  hectares,  but  subsistence  farming  existed  as  well. 

Nearly  60  percent  of  all  farmers  lived  in  the  highlands  in  the 
late  1980s.  Highland  parcels  were  the  smallest  in  the  country,  had 
the  least  fertile  soils,  and  had  been  worked  for  the  longest  period 
of  time.  Highland  farmers  received  under  40  percent  of  all  rural 
income,  although  they  represented  about  60  percent  of  the  rural 
population. 

Twenty  percent  of  the  country's  farmers  were  located  in  the  rela- 
tively fertile  valleys.  These  farmers  fared  much  better  than  their 
counterparts  on  the  high  plateau  (Altiplano)  between  the  two  moun- 
tain ranges  in  western  Bolivia.  Plots  averaged  between  five  and 
ten  hectares,  and  because  of  the  more  fertile  and  less  exhausted 
soils,  a  larger  share  of  that  land  was  in  use  compared  with  the 
Altiplano.  Farmers  in  the  valleys  were  frequently  able  to  harvest 
two  crops  annually,  as  opposed  to  the  one  crop  a  year  on  the 
Altiplano. 

The  largest  farms  were  found  on  the  sprawling  and  often  iso- 
lated eastern  lowlands,  where  about  20  percent  of  the  country's 
farmers  worked  65  percent  of  the  country's  land.  The  lowlands 
produced  the  bulk  of  all  agricultural  output  and  virtually  all  of  the 
sector's  exports.  Although  about  16  percent  of  the  lowland  farms 
were  of  subsistence  size  (five  hectares  or  fewer),  the  great  majority 
of  the  region's  land  was  owned  by  medium-to-large  landowners 
actively  engaged  in  commercial  agriculture.  The  power  center  of 
the  agricultural  sector  was  located  in  the  southeastern  department 
of  Santa  Cruz,  where  landholdings  often  exceeded  5,000  hectares. 

Land  Reform  and  Land  Policy 

Bolivia's  land  reform  policies  of  the  early  1950s  were  implemented 
much  more  rapidly  and  completely  than  those  of  other  Latin  Ameri- 
can countries.  The  land  reform  essentially  allowed  peasants  to  claim 
the  land  that  they  had  traditionally  worked.  For  this  reason, 
however,  the  size  of  many  peasant  plots  did  not  increase  as  a  result 
of  the  reform. 

In  retrospect,  land  reform  was  more  of  a  social  success  than  an 
economic  one.  Although  the  reform  improved  income  distribution, 
its  main  contribution  was  to  transform  a  feudal  society  into  a  market 
society.  Land  reform  has  remained  a  goal  of  successive  govern- 
ments since  1952,  but  the  pace  and  scope  of  reform  slowed.  The 
original  Agrarian  Reform  Law  was  amended  in  1963  and  1968. 


115 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

By  1986  the  government  claimed  to  have  redistributed  33  million 
hectares  through  the  reform  process.  But  although  peasants  ate 
better,  agricultural  production  did  not  increase  in  the  way  most 
government  officials  expected.  In  addition,  the  reform  process  was 
hampered  by  price  controls,  a  lack  of  extension  services,  inade- 
quate credit,  insufficient  infrastructure,  and  regional  conflicts  be- 
tween the  highlands  and  lowlands.  The  growth  of  the  agricultural 
sector  was  barely  positive  during  the  1950s,  and  annual  growth, 
especially  among  food  crops,  did  not  keep  pace  with  population 
growth,  thus  requiring  increased  imports  of  foodstuffs. 

Land  policy  since  1952  also  has  been  marked  by  the  coloniza- 
tion of  the  lowlands.  Although  government  policy  has  encouraged 
colonization  of  these  isolated  areas  since  the  1940s,  the  process  did 
not  accelerate  until  the  1950s,  when  a  major  highway  connected 
Cochabamba  with  Santa  Cruz  and  a  rail  system  linked  Santa  Cruz 
with  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil  (see  Transportation,  this  ch.).  The  settlers 
included  members  of  the  former  ruling  oligarchy  who  had  lost  land 
in  the  reform,  as  well  as  more  risk-taking  highlanders,  or  Kollas 
(see  Glossary),  who  came  as  wage  laborers  or  who  bought  land. 
In  order  to  facilitate  the  colonization  process,  the  government 
created  the  National  Colonization  Institute  (Instituto  Nacional  de 
Colonization — INC),  which  typically  helped  highland  families  move 
to  newly  established  government  colonies,  sometimes  completely 
isolated  from  other  towns.  From  1952  to  the  mid-1970s,  the  govern- 
ment helped  46,000  families  (190,000  people)  colonize  the  lowlands. 
Government-sponsored  colonization,  however,  accounted  for  just 
15  percent  of  all  the  pioneers  who  ventured  east.  Furthermore,  INC 
colonies  suffered  a  high  dropout  rate  among  participants,  many 
of  whom  faulted  the  INC  for  providing  insufficient  support  ser- 
vices and  too  few  roads.  Other  settlers  included  members  of  North 
American  Mennonite  and  Japanese  communities  who  were  estab- 
lishing colonies  in  neighboring  Paraguay. 

Land  policy  and  government  agricultural  policy  in  general  shifted 
dramatically  when  orthodox  economic  policies  were  implemented 
in  1985.  The  government,  which  had  once  monopolized  the  produc- 
tion of  many  key  crops,  set  prices,  marketed  goods,  and  closely 
controlled  credit,  now  effectively  withdrew  from  the  sector.  As  a 
result,  farmers  in  the  late  1980s  were  in  transition  from  a  period 
characterized  by  import  protection  and  close  cooperation  with  the 
government  to  one  of  free  competition  with  highly  advanced  inter- 
national markets  and  contraband. 

Land  Use 

Bolivia  contains  slightly  over  108  million  hectares  of  land.  Forest 
or  woodland  comprised  40  percent  of  all  land,  or  56  million  hectares, 


116 


An  adult  education  class  in  the  Altiplano  region 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Jane  Regan) 
An  urban  greenhouse  on  the  outskirts  of  La  Paz 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Robin  Bowman) 


117 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  late  1980s.  Pasture  accounted  for  a  quarter  of  total  land, 
or  about  27  million  hectares.  Crops  covered  only  2  percent  of  all 
land,  or  over  1  million  hectares.  The  remaining  30  percent  of  the 
land  was  destined  for  "other  uses, ' '  including  8  percent  of  all  land 
that  was  arable  but  not  in  use.  Of  the  land  deemed  suitable  for 
agricultural  use,  only  about  10  percent  was  in  use. 

As  with  land  tenure,  the  country's  land  use  was  best  explained 
in  terms  of  its  geography.  Most  highland  farmers  worked  minifun- 
dios  (see  Glossary)  plots  of  staples  and  vegetables,  such  as  pota- 
toes, corn,  haba  (beans),  and  quinoa  (a  native  cereal),  selling  only 
30  percent  of  their  output.  Produce  usually  was  marketed  to  truck- 
ers, the  most  common  marketing  outlet  for  Bolivian  farmers,  or 
was  sold  at  large  agricultural  fairs,  an  Inca  custom.  Although 
Indians  in  the  highlands  terraced  their  steep  fields  in  the  Inca  style, 
traditional  farming  techniques  also  made  farmers  vulnerable  to  frost, 
irregular  rainfall,  and  erosion.  Farm  animals  plowed  the  soil,  and 
the  abundance  of  sheep,  llamas,  and  alpacas,  used  as  a  form  of 
insurance  income  against  bad  weather,  made  overgrazing  common, 
thus  further  eroding  the  soil  and  lessening  soil  fertility. 

Farmers  in  the  valleys  used  their  farmland  for  a  mixture  of  tradi- 
tional and  nontraditional  purposes,  producing  both  food  and  cash 
crops.  The  primary  food  crops  were  tubers,  barley,  corn,  wheat, 
fruits,  and  vegetables.  Export  crops  such  as  cocoa,  tea,  and  coffee 
were  also  grown,  the  latter  because  of  the  ideal  altitude.  Livestock 
activity  also  was  common.  Although  yields  were  not  always  high, 
the  valleys  usually  produced  two  crops  a  year  and  were  less  vul- 
nerable to  weather  fluctuations  than  on  the  Altiplano.  Nevertheless, 
farmers  in  the  valleys  also  relied  on  truckers  for  their  marketing 
and  suffered  greater  isolation  than  those  on  the  Altiplano,  particu- 
larly during  the  rainy  season,  October  to  April.  Although  farmers 
in  the  valleys  took  more  risks  than  those  on  the  Altiplano,  they 
still  suffered  from  a  low  technological  level  and  the  lack  of  direct 
access  to  markets. 

The  country's  most  productive  farmers  were  those  who  culti- 
vated the  fertile  plains  of  the  lowlands,  especially  in  the  depart- 
ment of  Santa  Cruz.  Santa  Cruz's  rise  to  prominence  was  the 
consequence  of  infrastructure  improvements  in  the  1950s,  land  re- 
form, and  colonization.  By  the  1960s,  Santa  Cruz  was  responsible 
for  the  import- substitution  industrialization  (see  Glossary)  of  sugar, 
rice,  cotton,  and  oilseeds.  With  the  rapid  increase  in  commodity 
prices  in  the  early  1970s,  cruceha  (Santa  Cruz  region)  lands  were 
increasingly  sown  with  cash  crops,  especially  cotton  and  soybeans. 
For  political  reasons,  Santa  Cruz  also  received  a  disproportionate 
share  of  the  sector's  credit  in  the  1970s,  which  also  accelerated 


118 


The  Economy 


growth.  In  contrast  to  the  rest  of  the  country,  farmers  in  Santa 
Cruz  were  actively  engaged  in  all  aspects  of  the  market  economy, 
such  as  harvesting,  processing,  marketing,  and  even  research  and 
development.  These  farmers  were  organized  into  powerful  producer 
organizations  that  traditionally  negotiated  prices  with  the  govern- 
ment and  provided  technical  assistance  to  members.  Small  farm- 
ers also  continued  to  occupy  Santa  Cruz;  many  were  responsible 
for  the  growing  problems  of  deforestation  because  of  slash- and-burn 
approaches  to  rice  farming.  An  estimated  100,000  landless  wage 
earners  in  the  agricultural  sector  cut  sugarcane  or  picked  cotton 
in  Santa  Cruz  or  performed  seasonal  labor  in  Argentina. 

The  northern  lowland  departments  of  Pando  and  Beni  were  much 
more  isolated  than  Santa  Cruz,  thus  limiting  their  ability  to  be  major 
agricultural  producers.  They  were  originally  settled  in  the  late  1800s 
during  a  boom  in  rubber  exports  from  the  Amazon  region.  As 
colonization  proceeded,  larger- scale  commercial  agriculture  devel- 
oped in  coffee,  rice,  and  especially  cattle.  By  the  1960s,  large  cat- 
de  ranches  of  500  hectares  and  more  flourished  in  the  Beni,  making 
it  the  country's  leading  cattle  producer.  In  the  1980s,  Beni  Depart- 
ment also  became  an  important  producer  of  commercial  timber. 

Crops 

Food  Crops 

Potatoes,  the  basic  staple  of  highland  Indians  since  pre-Inca 
times,  remained  the  most  important  food  crop  in  the  late  1980s. 
In  1988  approximately  190,000  hectares,  mostly  in  the  highlands, 
produced  700,000  tons  of  potatoes  (see  table  6;  table  7,  Appen- 
dix). These  figures  compared  unfavorably,  however,  with  1975, 
when  127,680  hectares  provided  834,000  tons  of  potatoes,  indicating 
that  yields  were  dwindling.  Bolivia  was  generally  self-sufficient  in 
potatoes  (over  200  varieties  were  grown),  but  imports  were  needed 
during  occasional  periods  of  drought  or  freezing.  Bolivia  also  ex- 
ported some  of  its  harvest  to  Brazil.  The  lack  of  new  seed  varie- 
ties, chemical  fertilizers,  and  irrigation  systems,  together  with  the 
continued  exhaustion  of  the  highland  soils,  was  responsible  for  the 
low  yields.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  lack  of  financial  credit  at  plant- 
ing time  represented  the  greatest  impediment  facing  potato  growers. 

Corn  was  the  second  major  food  crop,  and  its  importance  was 
growing.  Corn  covered  more  hectares  than  any  other  crop.  In  the 
late  1980s,  approximately  300,000  hectares  provided  more  than 
475,000  tons  of  white  corn,  the  traditional  corn  of  Bolivia.  Yellow 
Cuban  corn,  grown  in  the  tropical  areas  of  Santa  Cruz,  was  be- 
coming more  common;  160,000  hectares  produced  350,000  tons 


119 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

of  yellow  corn  in  1988.  Sixty  percent  of  the  corn  (both  white  and 
yellow)  was  grown  by  small  farmers  in  the  valleys,  with  the  remain- 
ing 40  percent  planted  by  medium- to-large  farmers  in  Santa  Cruz. 
Small  farmers  used  at  least  half  of  their  corn  for  human  consump- 
tion, as  animal  feed,  or  for  brewing  chicha,  the  primary  intoxicat- 
ing beverage  consumed  by  Bolivian  Indians.  The  other  half  of  their 
production  and  most  of  the  commercially  farmed  corn  were  sold 
to  Bolivia's  forty  private  animal-feed  plants,  which  bought  50  per- 
cent of  the  country's  annual  corn  output.  Many  corn  farmers  were 
members  of  the  Corn  and  Sorghum  Producers  Association  (Produc- 
tores  de  Maiz  y  Sorgo — Promasor).  Promasor  was  particularly  ac- 
tive in  Santa  Cruz,  where  its  members  also  produced  20,000  tons 
a  year  of  sorghum,  a  drought-resistant  crop,  from  some  6,000  hect- 
ares of  land. 

Rice  was  an  increasingly  popular  crop  in  Bolivia.  Eaten  by  peo- 
ple in  the  lowlands  and  valleys  since  the  1950s,  rice  became  the 
focus  of  government  import-substitution  policies  beginning  in  the 
1960s.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  country  was  generally  self-sufficient 
in  rice,  some  years  importing  and  other  years  exporting.  Bolivia's 
rice,  however,  was  not  of  high  quality  by  international  standards, 
thus  limiting  export  markets.  In  1988  some  90,000  hectares  of  land, 
mostly  in  Santa  Cruz  and  Beni  departments,  produced  140,000 
tons  of  rice.  Bolivia  imported  one-fifth  of  its  total  consumption  of 
rice  in  1988.  Approximately  20,000  small  farmers  produced  the 
bulk  of  the  country's  paddy  rice  and,  in  turn,  sold  it  via  truckers 
to  thirty  private  rice  mills. 

Barley  was  a  common  crop  in  the  highlands  and  was  particu- 
larly well  suited  for  the  high  altitudes.  In  1988  the  cultivation  of 
80,000  hectares  by  300,000  highland  farmers  produced  75,000  tons 
of  barley,  which  was  used  primarily  in  the  country's  robust  beer 
industry.  About  10  percent  of  the  barley  was  consumed  on  the  farm 
as  fodder.  Bolivia  imported  about  one-quarter  of  its  total  consump- 
tion of  barley  in  1988. 

Quinoa,  the  "mother  grain"  of  the  Incas,  was  the  only  food  crop 
in  the  highlands  that  experienced  sustained  growth  during  the  1970s 
and  1980s.  Cultivation  of  quinoa,  which  grows  only  above  2,000 
meters,  jumped  from  15,640  hectares  producing  9,000  tons  in  1980 
to  45,800  hectares  producing  21,140  tons  in  1984,  and  production 
continued  to  expand  in  the  late  1980s.  High  in  fiber  and  rich  in 
protein,  quinoa  was  a  health  food  in  industrialized  countries. 

Despite  repeated  attempts  by  the  government's  National  Wheat 
Institute  (Instituto  Nacional  del  Trigo)  to  make  the  nation  self- 
sufficient  in  wheat  production,  Bolivia  produced  only  about  20 


120 


Harvesting  corn  in 
Azurduy  Province, 
Chuquisaca  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Wilhelm  Kenning) 


An  El  Ceibo  farmer 
harvesting  cocoa  in  the  Alto  Beni 
area  of  Nor  Yungas  Province, 
La  Paz  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation 
(Wilhelm  Kenning) 


121 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

percent  of  the  wheat  that  it  consumed  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1988 
about  88,000  hectares  produced  60,000  tons  of  wheat.  In  the  same 
year,  280,000  tons  of  wheat  were  imported.  In  1988  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID)  provided 
180,000  tons  of  wheat  through  its  Public  Law  480  (PL-480)  Food 
for  Peace  Program.  Western  Europe  and  Canada  operated  pro- 
grams similar  to  the  AID  program  but  on  a  smaller  scale.  Argen- 
tina provided  wheat  in  exchange  for  Bolivian  natural  gas.  Smuggled 
wheat  flour  from  Peru  and  Argentina  represented  a  serious  menace 
to  domestic  wheat  production.  In  1988  analysts  estimated  that 
60,000  tons  of  smuggled  wheat  had  entered  Bolivia  annually.  Small 
traditional  farmers  in  the  highlands  and  large  soybean  farmers  in 
Santa  Cruz  provided  most  of  the  country's  1988  wheat  harvest, 
which  was  roughly  equivalent  to  output  in  1978,  but  only  wheat 
from  the  Santa  Cruz  area  was  used  for  commercial  milling.  Analysts 
believed  that  wheat  would  produce  higher  yields  when  the  proper 
tropical  seeds,  fertilizer,  and  irrigation  methods  were  used. 

Bolivians  produced  a  wide  range  of  vegetables,  fruits,  and  other 
food  crops,  mostly  for  local  consumption.  The  principal  vegetable 
crops  included  kidney  beans,  green  beans,  chick  peas,  green  peas, 
lettuce,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  carrots,  onions,  garlic,  and  chili  pep- 
pers. Also  common  were  alfalfa,  rye,  cassava,  and  sweet  potatoes. 
Some  of  the  most  popular  fruits  were  oranges,  limes,  grapes,  ap- 
ples, quince,  papayas,  peaches,  plums,  cherries,  figs,  avocadoes, 
pineapples,  strawberries,  bananas,  and  plantains.  Fruits  increas- 
ingly competed  with  coca  cultivation  in  the  1980s. 

Cash  Crops 

Soybeans  were  the  most  lucrative  legal  cash  crop  in  Bolivia  in 
the  1980s.  Soybean  production  began  in  earnest  in  the  early  1970s, 
following  a  substantial  increase  in  the  crop's  world  price.  By  the 
late  1980s,  soybeans  represented  the  country's  most  important  oil- 
seed crop.  In  1988  soybeans  covered  65,000  hectares,  and  annual 
production  amounted  to  about  150,000  tons,  compared  with  19,430 
hectares  producing  26,000  tons  a  decade  earlier.  About  one-third 
of  the  soybean  harvest  was  used  domestically  in  the  form  of  soy- 
bean meal  for  the  poultry  industry.  Other  soybean  meal  was  shipped 
to  Peru  and  Western  Europe,  and  raw  soybeans  were  exported  via 
rail  to  Brazil.  In  order  to  process  soybean  oil  for  the  local  market, 
the  country  maintained  a  crushing  capacity  of  150,000  tons  in  1988. 
Locally  manufactured  soybean  oil  also  competed  with  contraband 
products  from  neighboring  countries.  Most  of  Santa  Cruz's  soy- 
bean farmers  were  members  of  the  well-organized  and  powerful 
National  Association  of  Soybean  Producers  (Asociacion  Nacional 


122 


The  Economy 


de  Productores  de  Soya — Anapo).  Anapo,  with  assistance  from 
AID,  built  new  storage  facilities  that  permitted  continued  expan- 
sion of  the  crop.  Because  of  the  dynamism  of  their  crop,  soybean 
farmers  enjoyed  the  best  availability  of  credit  for  all  legal  cash-crop 
producers. 

Coffee,  another  principal  cash  crop,  was  the  second  most  im- 
portant agricultural  export  after  timber.  As  the  primary  substitute 
crop  offered  to  coca  growers  under  the  eradication  program,  coffee 
was  of  particular  importance.  Coffee  production  reached  13,000 
tons  in  1988,  nearly  double  the  1987  output,  which  was  damaged 
by  disease  in  western  Bolivia.  Over  20,000  hectares  were  devoted 
to  coffee.  Bolivia  consumed  25  percent  of  its  coffee  crop  locally  in 
1988,  with  the  balance  exported  both  legally  and  clandestinely. 
Legal  exports  of  102,000  bags,  sixty  kilograms  each  as  measured 
by  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (ICO),  were  equivalent 
to  Bolivia's  export  quota  for  1988,  which  was  over  US$15  million. 
An  ICO  member  since  1968,  Bolivia  was  permitted  to  export 
170,000  of  the  sixty-kilogram  bags  in  1989.  Approximately  25  per- 
cent of  coffee  exports  left  the  country  illegally  in  the  late  1980s. 
Most  coffee  was  grown  by  small  farmers  in  the  valleys  or  by  large 
farmers  in  the  lowlands.  Most  commercial  farmers  were  members 
of  the  Bolivian  Coffee  Committee  (Comite  Boliviano  del  Cafe — 
Cobolca),  which  allocated  ICO  quotas.  The  coffee  industry  also 
received  technical  assistance  from  the  Bolivian  Institute  of  Coffee 
(Instituto  Boliviano  de  Cafe),  an  autonomous  government  agency 
established  in  1965  to  run  model  farms  and  help  control  disease. 

Bolivia  had  been  self-sufficient  in  sugar  production  since  1963, 
although  sugarcane  had  been  grown  since  the  colonial  era.  Sugar- 
cane in  the  1980s  was  a  cash  crop  of  significance  for  both  the  domes- 
tic and  the  export  markets.  In  1988  cultivation  of  sugarcane  on 
62,000  hectares  produced  140,000  tons  of  sugar.  These  figures 
represented  a  sharp  decline  from  1986  figures.  The  price  of  sugar 
had  skyrocketed  in  the  mid-1970s,  doubling  the  number  of  hect- 
ares under  sugarcane  cultivation  in  a  few  years.  As  sugar  prices 
declined,  however,  farmers  opted  for  more  lucrative  crops,  such 
as  soybeans.  The  decline  in  the  sugar  industry  also  was  caused  by 
poor  management,  dwindling  yields,  and  poor  quality  control.  In 
1988  the  country's  six  sugar  mills  operated  at  only  37  percent 
capacity.  Sugarcane  also  was  processed  into  methanol  for  the  domes- 
tic and  export  markets.  Continued  controls  on  imports  of  sugar 
constituted  one  of  the  few  exceptions  to  the  import  liberalization 
policies  of  the  late  1980s. 

Although  cotton  was  a  boom  crop  in  the  early  1970s,  produc- 
tion had  waned  since  1975.  Grown  mostly  in  Santa  Cruz,  cotton 


123 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

covered  54,000  hectares  in  1975  but  only  9,000  hectares  in  1988. 
Production  declined  from  22,000  tons  to  3,700  tons  over  the  same 
period.  Price  was  the  primary  reason  for  the  decline,  but  insect 
problems,  disease,  and  the  lack  of  credit  also  contributed.  Because 
Santa  Cruz  cotton  farmers  represented  an  important  constituency, 
they  had  traditionally  received  highly  favorable  terms  of  credit. 
When  cotton  growing  was  no  longer  profitable,  however,  many 
cotton  farmers  defaulted  on  their  loans,  leaving  the  government's 
Agricultural  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Agncola  de  Bolivia — BAB) 
in  a  poor  financial  position  in  the  late  1980s.  Because  of  the  precipi- 
tous decline  in  the  industry,  the  country's  ten  cotton  mills  were 
operating  at  under  one-half  of  their  capacity  by  the  late  1980s. 

Cash  crops  of  lesser  importance  included  tobacco,  tea,  cocoa, 
and  oilseeds,  such  as  sesame,  peanuts,  castor  beans,  and  sunflowers. 
Approximately  1 ,000  tons  of  tobacco  for  the  Bolivian  market  were 
grown  on  about  1 ,000  hectares.  Tea  was  grown  as  a  secondary  crop 
in  the  Yungas,  Alto  Beni  (Upper  Beni),  and  Santa  Cruz  areas. 
Eighty  percent  of  the  country's  cacao  trees,  from  which  cocoa  is 
derived,  were  grown  in  the  Alto  Beni  by  a  network  of  cooperatives 
that  were  increasingly  involved  in  processing  cocoa  and  exporting 
chocolate  products.  Oilseeds  were  an  important  part  of  both  the 
agricultural  and  the  manufacturing  sectors.  The  growing  dominance 
of  soybeans,  however,  diminished  the  role  of  other  oilseeds  in  the 
economy. 

Coca 

Bolivia's  most  lucrative  crop  and  economic  activity  in  the  1980s 
was  coca,  whose  leaves  were  processed  clandestinely  into  cocaine. 
The  country  was  the  second  largest  grower  of  coca  in  the  world, 
supplying  approximately  1 5  percent  of  the  United  States  cocaine 
market  in  the  late  1980s.  Analysts  believed  that  exports  of  coca 
paste  or  cocaine  generated  from  US$600  million  to  US$1  billion 
annually  in  the  1980s,  depending  on  prices  and  output.  Based  on 
these  estimates,  coca-related  exports  equaled  or  surpassed  the  coun- 
try's legal  exports. 

Coca  has  been  grown  in  Bolivia  for  centuries.  The  coca  plant, 
a  tea-like  shrub,  was  cultivated  mostly  by  small  farmers  in  the 
Chapare  and  Yungas  regions.  About  65  percent  of  all  Bolivian  coca 
was  grown  in  the  Chapare  region  of  Cochabamba  Department; 
other  significant  coca-growing  areas  consisted  of  the  Yungas  of  La 
Paz  Department  and  various  areas  of  Santa  Cruz  and  Tarija 
departments. 

Bolivian  farmers  rushed  to  grow  coca  in  the  1980s  as  its  price 
climbed  and  the  economy  collapsed.  Soaring  unemployment  also 


124 


The  Economy 


contributed  to  the  boom.  In  addition,  farmers  turned  to  coca  for 
its  quick  economic  return,  its  light  weight,  its  yield  of  four  crops 
a  year,  and  the  abundance  of  United  States  dollars  available  in 
the  trade,  a  valuable  resource  in  a  hyperinflated  economy.  The 
Bolivian  government  estimated  that  coca  production  had  expanded 
from  1.63  million  kilograms  of  leaves  covering  4,100  hectares  in 
1977  to  a  minimum  of  45  million  kilograms  over  an  area  of  at  least 
48,000  hectares  in  1987.  The  number  of  growers  expanded  from 
7,600  to  at  least  40,000  over  the  same  period.  Besides  growers, 
the  coca  networks  employed  numerous  Bolivians,  including  car- 
riers, manufacturers  of  coca  paste  and  cocaine,  security  person- 
nel, and  a  wide  range  of  more  nefarious  positions.  The  unparalleled 
revenues  made  the  risk  worthwhile  for  many. 

Government  efforts  to  eradicate  the  rampant  expansion  of  coca 
cultivation  in  Bolivia  began  in  1983,  when  Bolivia  committed  it- 
self to  a  five-year  program  to  reduce  coca  production  and  created 
the  Coca  Eradication  Directorate  (Direccion  de  la  Reconversion 
de  la  Coca — Direco)  under  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Camp- 
esino  Affairs,  and  Livestock  Affairs.  Bolivia's  National  Directorate 
for  the  Control  of  Dangerous  Substances  (Direccion  Nacional  para 
el  Control  de  Substancias  Peligrosas — DNCSP)  was  able  to  eradi- 
cate several  thousand  hectares  of  coca.  These  efforts,  however,  put 
only  a  small  dent  in  the  coca  industry  and  were  highly  controver- 
sial among  thousands  of  peasants.  Under  the  joint  agreement  signed 
by  the  United  States  and  Bolivia  in  1987,  which  created  DNCSP, 
Bolivia  allocated  US$72.2  million  for  the  1988  to  1991  period  to 
eradication  programs,  including  a  wide-ranging  rural  development 
program  for  the  Chapare  region.  The  program  was  aided  by  an 
88  percent  drop  in  the  local  price  of  coca  caused  by  the  fall  in  co- 
caine prices  in  the  United  States. 

The  economics  of  eradication  were  particularly  frustrating.  As 
more  coca  was  destroyed,  the  local  price  increased,  making  it  more 
attractive  to  other  growers.  Bolivia,  however,  was  seeking  addi- 
tional funds  from  the  United  States  and  Western  Europe  to  pro- 
ceed with  an  eradication  plan  that  was  supposed  to  provide  peasants 
US$2,000  per  hectare  eradicated.  In  1988  coca  growing  became 
technically  illegal  outside  a  specially  mandated  12,000-hectare  area 
in  the  Yungas.  A  four-year  government  eradication  campaign 
begun  in  1989  sought  to  convert  55  percent  of  coca  areas  into  legal 
crops.  Coffee  and  citrus  fruits  were  offered  as  alternative  crops  to 
coca  despite  the  fact  that  their  return  was  a  fraction  of  that  of  coca. 

The  cocaine  industry  had  a  generally  deleterious  effect  on  the 
Bolivian  economy.  The  cocaine  trade  greatly  accelerated  the 
predominance  of  the  United  States  dollar  in  the  economy  and  the 


125 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

large  black  market  for  currency,  thereby  helping  to  fuel  inflation 
in  the  1980s.  The  escalation  of  coca  cultivation  also  damaged  the 
output  of  fruits  and  coffee,  which  were  mostly  destined  for  local 
consumption.  Coca's  high  prices,  besides  being  generally  inflation- 
ary, also  distorted  other  sectors,  especially  labor  markets.  Manufac- 
turers in  the  Cochabamba  area  during  the  1980s  found  it  impossible 
to  match  the  wages  workers  could  gain  in  coca,  making  their  sup- 
ply of  labor  unreliable  and  thus  hurting  the  formal  economy. 

Farming  Technology 

The  use  of  purchased  items  such  as  fertilizers,  tractors,  and  ir- 
rigation systems  remained  extremely  low  in  the  1980s  because  tradi- 
tional farming  methods  continued  to  dominate.  Because  of  their 
isolation  and  lack  of  technical  support,  Bolivian  farmers  used  less 
fertilizer,  about  two  kilograms  per  hectare,  than  any  other  coun- 
try in  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Most  small  farmers  used  natural 
fertilizers,  such  as  manure,  but  even  large  farms  in  Santa  Cruz 
found  chemical  fertilizers  (all  of  which  were  imported)  expen- 
sive because  of  transportation  costs.  The  signing  of  an  accord  for 
a  natural  gas  pipeline  with  Brazil  in  1988,  however,  improved 
Bolivia's  prospects  for  manufacturing  its  own  chemical  fertilizers. 
Bolivia's  use  of  tractors,  0.2  per  1 ,000  hectares,  was  also  the  lowest 
in  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Most  tractors  were  used  in  Santa  Cruz. 
As  the  lowlands  took  on  a  greater  role  in  agriculture,  that  ratio 
was  expected  to  improve.  By  the  late  1980s,  just  about  5  percent 
of  the  country's  land  was  irrigated,  one-third  more  than  a  decade 
earlier. 

Government  extension  services  for  farmers  remained  extremely 
inadequate  in  the  late  1980s.  Only  one  agricultural  agent  existed 
for  each  7,000  farming  households.  The  chief  research  institution 
for  agriculture  was  the  Bolivian  Institute  for  Agricultural  Tech- 
nology (Instituto  Boliviano  de  Tecnologia  Agricola — IBTA).  Estab- 
lished in  the  mid-1970s,  the  IBTA  concentrated  mainly  on  new 
seed  varieties  for  cash  crops  in  the  lowlands.  The  Institute  for  the 
Rural  Development  of  the  Altiplano  (Instituto  para  el  Desarrollo 
Rural  del  Altiplano — IDRA),  the  Center  for  Tropical  Agricultural 
Research  (Centro  de  Investigaciones  de  Agricultura  Tropical — 
CIAT),  and  the  national  universities  performed  further  research. 

Livestock 

Livestock  production  was  active  and  well  diversified.  Beef  cat- 
tle numbered  an  estimated  6  million  head  in  1988  and  dominated 
all  livestock  production.  Beef  was  the  preferred  meat  in  Bolivia. 
Unlike  the  rest  of  the  agricultural  sector,  beef  output  grew  over 


126 


The  Economy 


4  percent  a  year  during  the  1980s.  Over  70  percent  of  all  cattle 
were  raised  in  the  eastern  plains;  the  Beni  was  responsible  for  over 
40  percent  of  the  national  herd.  Twenty  percent  of  all  cattle  were 
found  in  the  valleys  and  about  10  percent  in  the  highlands,  where 
they  had  served  as  beasts  of  burden  since  the  Spanish  introduced 
cattle  in  colonial  times.  In  1988  Bolivia  slaughtered  200,000  tons 
of  catde  and  exported  48,000  live  cattle  to  Brazil,  as  well  as  processed 
beef  to  Chile  and  Peru.  The  country's  medium  and  large  cattle 
ranchers  were  organized  into  two  large  producer  associations — 
one  in  the  Beni  and  one  in  Santa  Cruz — that  marketed  beef  and 
attempted  to  set  domestic  prices.  Bolivia  had  the  potential  to  double 
its  beef  output  in  a  relatively  short  period  of  time. 

The  number  of  dairy  cattle  in  Bolivia  in  the  late  1980s  was 
unknown  but  was  well  below  what  the  country  needed  to  meet 
domestic  demand.  The  rate  of  milk  consumption  among  Bolivians 
was  among  the  lowest  in  the  world.  In  1988  Bolivia  consumed 
130,000  tons  of  milk— 80,000  tons  from  its  five  dairies,  23,000  tons 
in  donations  from  developed  countries,  and  the  rest  in  contraband, 
mostly  in  the  form  of  evaporated  milk.  Dairy  farms  were  medium 
to  large  in  size  and  were  concentrated  in  Cochabamba  and  Santa 
Cruz  departments.  The  government  was  involved  heavily  in  the 
dairy  industry,  but  it  was  generally  ineffective  in  improving  nutri- 
tional levels  in  dairy  products. 

Other  livestock  included  chickens,  pigs,  sheep,  goats,  llamas, 
alpacas,  vicunas,  and  even  buffalo.  Chicken  production  also  was 
centered  in  Cochabamba  and  Santa  Cruz  departments  and  ex- 
perienced strong  growth  in  the  1980s.  Although  the  poultry  industry 
faced  high  feed  costs  and  substantial  Chilean  contraband,  it 
produced  25  million  broilers  and  200  million  eggs  in  1988.  The 
pork  industry,  also  facing  high  feed  costs,  remained  small.  The 
pig  population  was  estimated  at  slightly  over  1  million,  and  the 
annual  slaughter  was  roughly  45,000  tons  of  pork.  Santa  Cruz  was 
expected  to  be  the  location  of  the  pork  industry's  future  growth. 
There  were  an  estimated  10  million  sheep  and  1  million  goats  in 
Bolivia,  mostly  in  the  highlands,  which  was  also  home  to  3  million 
llamas,  350,000  alpacas,  and  a  dwindling  number  of  vicunas.  Ap- 
preciated for  their  fine  wool  and  meat,  llamas,  alpacas,  and  vicunas 
received  government  protection  because  of  their  declining  numbers. 

Forestry  and  Fishing 

Bolivia's  vast  forests  and  woodlands  were  one  of  the  areas  with 
the  most  potential  for  growth  in  agriculture.  Official  wood  produc- 
tion grew  by  a  third  from  the  late  1970s  to  the  late  1980s,  when 
timber  exports  surpassed  all  other  agricultural  exports.  Timber 


127 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

exports  in  1987  reached  US$31  million.  Contraband  in  wood 
products,  however,  was  expected  to  be  equivalent  to  official  ex- 
ports. Most  of  the  smuggled  wood  was  destined  for  Brazil.  Bolivia's 
eastern  lowlands  were  richly  endowed  with  hundreds  of  species  of 
trees,  scores  of  which  were  commercially  timbered.  Deforestation 
and  the  threat  of  erosion  caused  by  slash-and-burn  agriculture  and 
colonization  in  the  lowlands  were  growing  concerns.  The  govern- 
ment's Center  for  Forestry  Development  (Centro  de  Desarrollo 
Forestal)  monitored  the  country's  forests. 

Fish  was  a  potential  source  of  protein  in  the  Bolivian's  protein- 
deficient  diet,  but  river  fishing  was  mostly  for  direct  consumption. 
With  assistance  from  the  British,  the  government  was  attempting 
to  promote  commercial  fishing  in  the  lowlands.  Several  process- 
ing plants  were  being  considered  to  market  the  trout,  pacu,  and 
dorados  that  filled  the  many  rivers  of  the  Oriente. 

Energy 

The  energy  sector  assumed  critical  importance  in  Bolivia's  econ- 
omy in  the  1980s.  In  1985  hydrocarbons  became  the  country's  lead- 
ing export,  accounting  for  over  half  of  all  exports,  11  percent  of 
GDP,  and  more  than  50  percent  of  central  government  revenues. 
Petroleum  was  the  dominant  hydrocarbon  during  the  quadrupling 
of  oil  prices  in  the  1970s,  but  it  was  overshadowed  in  the  1980s 
by  natural  gas.  The  country  also  had  an  enormous,  and  largely 
untapped,  potential  for  hydroelectricity.  Despite  its  impressive 
energy  resources,  however,  most  Bolivians  consumed  relatively  littie 
energy.  As  much  as  90  percent  of  the  mostly  rural  population  re- 
mained without  access  to  electricity  in  the  late  1980s. 

Most  of  the  nation's  energy  consumption  was  destined  for 
residential  or  commercial  purposes  (46  percent),  followed  by  trans- 
portation (31  percent),  industry  (20  percent),  and  mining  (3  per- 
cent). Energy  consumption  was  stable  in  the  late  1980s,  as  the 
residential  and  industrial  sectors  assumed  much  of  the  energy  previ- 
ously used  by  the  mining  industry.  Firewood  was  the  energy  sup- 
ply for  74  percent  of  residential  and  commercial  purposes,  while 
hydrocarbons  accounted  for  20  percent  and  electricity  for  only  6 
percent.  Indians  in  the  highlands  relied  almost  entirely  on  shrubs, 
charcoal,  bottled  gas,  and  animal  dung  as  fuel  sources.  A  new  gas 
pipeline  for  urban  dwellers  in  La  Paz  was  expected  to  increase  the 
amount  of  gas  used  by  residences.  The  transportation  sector  re- 
lied entirely  on  hydrocarbons.  Industry  used  primarily  hydro- 
carbons (57  percent);  bagasse,  or  sugarcane  residue  (30  percent); 
electricity  (8  percent);  and  charcoal  and  firewood  (5  percent).  Char- 
coal and  firewood  accounted  for  the  majority  of  the  mining  sector's 


128 


The  Economy 


consumption.  Before  1985  tin  smelters  consumed  85  percent  of  the 
country's  charcoal. 

Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas 

Petroleum  had  been  known  to  exist  in  Bolivia  since  the  colonial 
period,  but  serious  exploration  did  not  begin  until  1916.  In  that 
year,  foreign  firms  probed  for  oil,  marking  the  start  of  a  long  and 
sometimes  bitter  relationship  between  foreign  oil  companies  and 
the  Bolivian  government.  The  government  nationalized  the  oil  in- 
dustry from  1916  to  1920,  denationalized  it  from  1920  to  1937, 
and  nationalized  it  again  in  1937  under  the  control  of  YPFB,  where 
it  remained  in  1989.  A  revision  of  the  country's  petroleum  code  in 
1952  allowed  foreign  companies  to  drill  for  Bolivian  oil.  Neverthe- 
less, the  only  successful  company — Bolivian  Gulf,  a  subsidiary  of 
Gulf  Oil — was  nationalized  in  1969  in  an  acrimonious  dispute  with 
the  government.  Two  foreign  firms,  Occidental  International  and 
Tesoro  Petroleum,  held  service  contracts  with  YPFB  in  the  late  1980s. 

Oil  production  peaked  in  the  early  1970s  but  declined  through- 
out the  rest  of  the  decade  and  into  the  1980s  (see  table  8,  Appen- 
dix). Production  dropped  from  47,000  barrels  per  day  (bpd)  in  1973 
to  only  21,000  bpd  in  1988,  the  result  of  price  fluctuations,  obso- 
lete machinery,  minimal  exploration,  YPFB  mismanagement,  and 
declining  reserves.  As  part  of  the  NPE,  the  government  restruc- 
tured YPFB  into  three  autonomous  subsidiaries  in  1985  and  reduced 
its  payroll  by  one-third.  One  of  YPFB' s  major  goals  was  to  acceler- 
ate oil  exploration  and  improve  its  inadequate  reserves-to- 
production  ratio.  Proven  reserves  were  estimated  at  158  million 
barrels  in  1988.  In  order  to  augment  reserves,  most  economists 
believed  that  Bolivia  would  need  to  rely  more  on  foreign  oil  com- 
panies for  exploration. 

Oil  exploration  in  Bolivia  in  the  1980s  remained  highly  regu- 
lated by  the  government,  but  revisions  in  the  country's  petroleum 
code  were  expected  after  1988.  For  exploration  purposes,  the  coun- 
try was  divided  into  four  regions,  three  of  which  were  higher  risk 
areas;  in  the  fourth  region,  where  reserves  were  unknown,  YPFB 
had  exclusive  rights  for  exploration.  The  YPFB's  region  was  lo- 
cated in  southeastern  Bolivia,  and  the  other  regions  covered  the 
rest  of  the  country's  mostly  unexplored  subsoil.  YPFB,  however, 
also  issued  contracts  for  foreign  oil  companies  to  explore  portions 
of  its  own  select  region  and  others.  In  September  1988,  Occiden- 
tal signed  a  thirty-year  contract  with  YPFB  for  exploration  and 
production  in  a  2. 5 -million-hectare  area,  encompassing  the  Madre 
de  Dios  and  Lapachos  regions  of  La  Paz,  Beni,  and  Pando  depart- 
ments. YPFB  also  managed  the  country's  oil  refineries,  which  had  a 
74,000  bpd  capacity,  or  three  times  more  than  output.  The  refineries, 


129 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


BRAZIL 


F 


Au 


\ 


Riberalta  \ 

Au 


A 


Au 


BRAZIL 


PERU/ 

J 


Au 


Ail*-  ^ 
Au  > 


Trinidad 


Sn  Au 


Sn  Au 


Santa  Cruz 


Fe 


Puerto-  { 
Su6rez. 
\  / 


CHILE  S 


Tar/ya  //Pei 
ARGENTINA// 


PARAGUAY 


100  tSOKSfometefS 


s 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative. 


International  boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 
Natural  gas  pipeline 
Proposed  natural  gas  pipeline 
Crude  petroleum  pipeline 
Lithium  and  potassium  deposits 
Tin  and  tungsten  belt 


Key  to  Minerals 

Note:  Underlined  symbol  indicates  plant. 

Pet  Petroleum 


Ag  Silver 
Au  Gold 
Bi  Bismuth 
Fe  Iron 

NG  Natural  gas 
Pb  Lead 


Sb  Antimony 

Sn  Tin 

W  Tungsten 

Zn  Zinc 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Orlando  D.  Martino,  Mineral  Industries  of  Latin  America, 
Washington,  1988,  22. 


Figure  9.  Primary  Petroleum,  Natural  Gas,  and  Minerals  Activities,  1988 

located  in  Santa  Cruz,  Cochabamba,  and  Chuquisaca  departments, 
produced  a  diverse  range  of  petroleum  products,  such  as  lubricat- 
ing oils,  gasoline,  naphthas,  jet  fuels,  diesel  fuel,  solvents,  and  ether 
(see  fig.  9). 


130 


The  Economy 


Seventy-five  percent  of  Bolivia's  oil  was  drilled  in  four  Santa 
Cruz  oil  fields — La  Pena,  Monteagudo,  Caranda,  and  Camiri — 
with  the  balance  provided  by  fields  in  the  departments  of  Chuquisa- 
ca  and  Tarija.  A  major  new  field,  Vuelta  Grande,  was  scheduled 
to  begin  production  in  1989,  providing  upwards  of  5,500  bpd.  Most 
oil  fields  had  large  reserves  of  associated  natural  gas. 

Natural  gas  reserves  in  1988  were  estimated  at  33  billion  cubic 
meters.  The  primary  gas  fields  were  concentrated  in  Santa  Cruz 
and  Tarija  departments,  with  additional  fields  scattered  in  vari- 
ous other  departments.  In  1988  natural  gas  production  equaled 
roughly  13  million  cubic  meters  a  day,  almost  half  of  which  was 
reinjected.  Sixty-five  percent  of  all  gas  production  originated  from 
four  large  gas  fields  in  Santa  Cruz:  Rio  Grande,  Colpa,  Vuelta 
Grande,  and  Caranda.  In  the  late  1980s,  YPFB  exported  close  to 
90  percent  of  the  country's  gas,  about  6  million  cubic  meters  a  day, 
to  Argentina  via  an  847-kilometer  gas  pipeline  that  was  constructed 
in  1972,  extending  from  Santa  Cruz  to  the  border  town  of  Yacuiba. 
In  total,  4,346  kilometers  of  gas  and  oil  pipelines  of  varying  sizes 
extended  through  the  country  in  1988.  Domestic  gas  use,  equiva- 
lent to  about  10  percent  of  production  in  1988,  was  expected  to 
increase  when  a  gas  pipeline  connecting  the  highlands  to  the 
lowlands  opened  in  1988  and  as  electricity-generating  plants  in- 
creasingly turned  to  gas  as  their  source  of  power. 

The  contentious  nature  of  negotiations  between  Bolivia  and  Argen- 
tina for  purchasing  natural  gas  in  the  mid-1980s  demonstrated  the 
subsector's  dependence  on  foreign  markets.  Disagreements  revolved 
around  the  market  rate  Argentina  paid  for  Bolivian  gas,  the  propor- 
tion of  currency  and  in-kind  payments,  and  Bolivia's  failure  to  make 
its  debt  payments  to  Argentina,  its  largest  bilateral  creditor.  Fol- 
lowing a  two-year  period  that  nearly  bankrupted  Bolivia's  trea- 
sury, the  two  nations  signed  a  comprehensive  agreement  in  1987. 
Under  the  accord,  Bolivia  agreed  to  cut  its  gas  price  by  20  percent 
and  peg  it  to  market  levels.  Argentina  resumed  its  gas  payments 
to  Bolivia  with  80  percent  of  its  payment  in  convertible  currencies 
and  20  percent  in  goods,  such  as  wheat.  In  the  late  1980s,  however, 
the  status  of  the  agreement  beyond  1992  remained  unclear. 

After  more  than  ten  years  of  negotiations,  in  1988  Bolivia  and 
Brazil  signed  a  preliminary  agreement  that  was  to  pave  the  way 
for  exports  of  natural  gas,  urea,  and  polyethylene  to  Brazil  in  the 
early  to  mid-1990s.  Although  the  details  were  still  being  finalized 
in  1989,  the  pact  was  slated  to  include  a  600-kilometer  gas  pipe- 
line from  Santa  Cruz  to  the  border  town  of  Puerto  Suarez  and  then 
to  Sao  Paulo;  3  million  cubic  meters  of  gas  exports  a  day;  the 
manufacturing  of  200,000  tons  a  year  of  urea  fertilizers  and  100,000 


131 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

tons  of  polyethylene,  used  for  packaging  and  tubing;  and  a  series 
of  other  thermal  and  hydroelectric  projects.  If  the  supply  of  gas 
did  not  reach  Brazil  by  1992,  however,  and  the  Argentine  agree- 
ment was  not  renewed,  Bolivia  faced  a  potentially  untenable  cash- 
flow situation  by  1993. 

Electricity 

Bolivia's  installed  electricity  capacity  by  the  mid-1980s  had 
reached  566  megawatts,  and  government  plans  in  the  late  1980s 
projected  growth  in  domestic  demand  and  significant  annual  in- 
vestment in  expanding  domestic  supply  into  the  1990s.  Hydro- 
electric sources  provided  approximately  62  percent  of  the  supply 
of  electricity,  followed  by  thermal  sources  with  25  percent  and  diesel 
with  13  percent.  The  National  Electrification  Institute  (Instituto 
Nacional  de  Electrificacion),  a  branch  of  the  Ministry  of  Energy 
and  Hydrocarbons,  provided  diesel  generators  to  those  outside 
major  cities  and  beyond  the  reach  of  the  interconnected  electricity 
system,  which  linked  most  major  cities  for  the  first  time  in  the  1980s. 
The  National  Electricity  Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Elec- 
tricidad — ENDE),  also  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Energy  and  Hydro- 
carbons, controlled  80  percent  of  the  country's  electricity  capacity, 
including  five  hydroelectric  plants.  Other  producers  of  electricity 
included  the  United  States-owned  Bolivia  Electricity  Company 
(Compama  Boliviana  de  Energia  Electrica),  serving  La  Paz  and 
Oruro;  the  Cochabamba  Light  and  Power  Company  (Empresa  de 
Luz  y  Fuerza  Electrica  de  Cochabamba);  the  Rural  Electricity 
Cooperative  (Cooperativa  Rural  de  Electrificacion),  working  in 
rural  areas;  and  Comibol,  which  generated  much  of  its  own  elec- 
tricity, primarily  from  charcoal  and  firewood.  ENDE  established 
electricity  rates,  which  were  often  subject  to  large  increases.  ENDE, 
as  a  consequence  of  the  NPE,  negotiated  electricity  rates  with  pri- 
vate companies  and  local  city  councils.  Access  to  electricity  by  pri- 
vate citizens  was  growing  in  the  late  1980s  and  was  available  to 
over  72  percent  of  urban  dwellers.  Rural  citizens,  however,  lagged 
well  behind;  only  about  10  percent  had  such  access,  low  even  by 
Latin  American  standards. 

The  quality  of  electricity  transmission  was  relatively  good  and 
generally  reliable  in  larger  cities.  Electricity  operated  on  a  50-cycle 
system,  120  and  220  volts  in  La  Paz,  and  220  volts  in  other  major 
cities.  To  improve  quality  further  and  expand  installed  capacity, 
the  government  embarked  in  1988  on  a  US$100  million  invest- 
ment project  in  electricity,  including  new  generation  plants,  gas 
turbines,  and  transmission  lines.  With  funding  from  the  World 
Bank  and  the  Andean  Common  Market's  Andean  Development 


132 


The  Economy 


Corporation,  Bolivia  was  attempting  to  improve  access  to  electric- 
ity for  rural  communities. 

The  country's  plans  to  tap  its  vast  hydroelectric  potential  were 
less  clear.  In  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia's  hydroelectric  capacity  of  ap- 
proximately 300  megawatts  represented  only  2  percent  of  the 
18,000-megawatt  potential,  estimated  by  engineering  studies  per- 
formed in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  Although  small-  and  medium-sized 
hydroelectric  projects  were  under  way  through  regional  or  local 
governments,  any  large-scale  projects  were  dependent  on  negotia- 
tions in  progress  with  Brazil  over  the  price  for  natural  gas  exports. 

Policymakers  also  considered  alternative  energy  resources,  such 
as  geothermal,  coal,  solar,  wind,  and  biomass.  Geothermal  potential 
was  positive  with  350-megawatt  capacity,  including  a  possible  plant 
at  Sol  de  Manana  in  Laguna  Colorada.  Commercially  exploitable 
coal  resources  remained  unknown  in  the  late  1980s.  Solar,  wind, 
and  biomass  sources  offered  varying  potential  but  remained  un- 
attractive because  of  the  high  per  capita  cost  of  their  technology. 
Uranium  deposits  were  known  to  exist  as  well,  and  the  Bolivian 
Nuclear  Energy  Commission  (Comision  Boliviana  de  Energia 
Nuclear)  was  responsible  for  uranium  exploration  and  production. 

Mining 

From  1557  to  1985,  the  mining  industry  dominated  the  Bolivian 
economy.  By  1985,  however,  the  production  of  every  significant 
mineral  in  the  country  had  failed  to  exceed  the  output  registered 
in  1975.  Moreover,  the  international  tin  market  crashed  in  1985. 
The  mining  sector  in  1987  accounted  for  only  4  percent  of  GDP, 
36  percent  of  exports,  2.5  percent  of  government  revenues,  and 
2  percent  of  the  labor  force,  compared  with  8  percent  of  GDP,  65 
percent  of  exports,  27  percent  of  government  revenues,  and  about 
6  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  1977.  Spurred  by  a  massive  increase 
in  gold  production,  however,  the  mining  sector  rebounded  in  1988, 
returning  to  the  top  of  the  nation's  list  of  foreign  exchange  earners. 

Structure  of  the  Mining  Industry 

Comibol,  created  in  1952  and  decentralized  into  five  semiautono- 
mous  mining  enterprises  in  1986,  was  a  huge  multimineral  corpo- 
ration controlled  by  organized  labor  and  the  second  largest  tin 
enterprise  in  the  world.  In  addition  to  operating  twenty-one  min- 
ing companies,  several  spare-parts  factories,  various  electricity 
plants,  farms,  a  railroad,  and  other  agencies,  Comibol  also  provided 
schooling  for  over  60,000  children,  housing  for  mining  families, 
health  clinics,  and  popular  subsidized  commissaries  called pulperias 


133 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


(see  Glossary).  By  1986  Comibol  employed  more  nonminers  than 
miners. 

Observers  severely  criticized  Comibol' s  mining  policies.  Comibol 
took  fifteen  years  to  bring  tin  production  to  its  prerevolutionary 
levels.  In  addition,  Comibol  failed  to  invest  sufficientiy  in  mining 
technology  and  existing  mines,  and  it  proved  unable  to  open  new 
mines.  Indeed,  except  for  the  mid-1960s  Comibol  did  not  engage 
in  exploration.  In  terms  of  administration,  worker  control  eclipsed 
even  technical  and  detailed  administrative  decisions. 

The  decentralization  of  Comibol  under  the  Rehabilitation  Plan 
reduced  the  company's  payroll  from  27,000  employees  to  under 
7,000  in  less  than  a  year.  All  of  Comibol' s  mines,  previously  respon- 
sible for  the  bulk  of  mining  output,  were  shut  down  from  Septem- 
ber 1986  to  May  1987  to  examine  the  economic  feasibility  of  each 
mine;  some  never  reopened.  Comibol' s  mining  and  service  com- 
panies were  restructured  into  five  autonomous  mining  subsidiaries 
(in  Oruro,  La  Paz,  Quechusa,  Potosi,  and  Oriente)  and  two  au- 
tonomous smelting  companies  (the  Vinto  Smelting  Company  and 
the  still  unopened  Karachipampa  smelter  in  Potosi),  or  they  were 
transferred  to  ministries  such  as  the  Ministry  of  Social  Services  and 
Public  Health  or  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture.  The 
bureaucracy  also  underwent  major  administrative  changes. 

For  the  first  time  since  1952,  the  country's  medium  miners,  small 
miners,  cooperatives,  and  other  producers,  which  made  up  the  rest 
of  the  mining  sector,  produced  more  minerals  in  1987  than 
Comibol.  The  medium  miners  consisted  of  Bolivian  and  foreign 
mining  companies  in  the  private  sector  that  were  involved  in  the 
production  of  virtually  every  mineral,  especially  silver,  zinc,  anti- 
mony, lead,  cadmium,  tungsten,  gold,  and  tin.  Nevertheless,  the 
collapse  of  tin  and  the  decline  in  other  commodity  prices  in  the 
mid-1980s  also  severely  affected  the  private  mining  sector.  Nineteen 
mining  companies  with  4,020  employees  constituted  the  Medium 
Miners  Association  (Asociacion  de  Mineria  Mediana)  in  1987,  com- 
pared with  twenty-eight  companies  and  8,000  workers  in  1985.  Only 
615  mines  in  1987  were  part  of  the  National  Chamber  of  Mining 
(Camara  Nacional  de  Mineria),  the  equivalent  of  a  small  miners 
association,  compared  with  6,300  mines  and  23,000  workers  be- 
fore the  crash.  Traditionally,  small  miners  had  to  market  their  min- 
ing output  through  the  Mining  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Minera  de 
Bolivia — Bamin),  which  was  also  restructured  after  1985  into  a  joint 
venture  of  private  and  public  interests.  Beginning  in  1987,  small 
miners  no  longer  had  to  sell  their  exports  through  Bamin,  a  policy 
shift  that  boosted  that  group's  output  and  foreign  sales.  Mining 
cooperatives  and  other  miscellaneous  miners  made  up  the  rest  of 


134 


Indian  woman  shoveling  salt  at  the  Uyuni  Saltpan,  Potosi  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 
Mining  tungsten  in  the  Kami  mine,  Cochabamba  Department 


135 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


the  producers  in  the  mining  sector,  although  their  output  was  ag- 
gregated with  that  of  the  small  mining  sector.  The  National  Fed- 
eration of  Mining  Cooperatives  of  Bolivia  (Federacion  Nacional 
de  Cooperativas  Mineras  de  Bolivia)  served  as  an  umbrella  organi- 
zation for  the  country's  434  mining  cooperatives,  82  percent  of 
which  mined  gold.  Only  a  few  of  these  groups,  however,  were  offi- 
cially registered  with  the  National  Institute  of  Cooperatives  (Insti- 
tuto  Nacional  de  Cooperativas).  Most  cooperatives  were  small  and 
consisted  of  individual  miners  organized  by  mine  or  specific  mineral 
and  using  very  little  technology. 

Tin  and  Related  Metals 

Bolivia's  mines  had  produced  cassiterite,  the  chief  source  of  tin, 
since  1861 .  Although  long  among  the  world's  leading  tin  producers 
and  exporters,  the  industry  faced  numerous  and  complicated  struc- 
tural problems  by  the  early  1980s:  the  highest-cost  underground 
mines  and  smelters  in  the  world;  inaccessibility  of  the  ores  because 
of  high  altitudes  and  poor  infrastructure;  narrow,  deep  veins  found 
in  hard  rock;  complex  tin  ores  that  had  to  be  specially  processed 
to  extract  tin,  antimony,  lead,  and  other  ores;  depletion  of  high- 
grade  ores;  almost  continual  labor  unrest;  deplorable  conditions 
for  miners;  extensive  mineral  theft  orjuqueo;  poor  macroeconomic 
conditions;  lack  of  foreign  exchange  for  needed  imports;  unclear 
mining  policies;  few  export  incentives;  and  decreasing  international 
demand  for  tin.  Between  1978  and  1985,  Bolivia  fell  from  the  sec- 
ond to  the  fifth  position  among  tin  producers. 

In  the  late  1980s,  however,  tin  still  accounted  for  a  third  of  all 
Bolivian  mineral  exports  because  of  the  strong  performance  by  the 
medium  and  small  mining  sectors.  The  largest  tin-mining  com- 
pany in  the  private  sector  was  Estalsa  Boliviana,  which  dredged 
alluvial  tin  deposits  in  the  Antequera  River  in  northeastern  Potosf 
Department.  The  Mining  Company  of  Oruro  operated  the  coun- 
try's richest  tin  mine  at  Huanuni.  The  country's  tin  reserves  in 
1988  were  estimated  at  453,700  tons,  of  which  250,000  tons  were 
found  in  medium-sized  mines,  143,700  tons  in  Comibol  mines, 
and  60,000  tons  in  small  mines.  In  the  late  1980s,  tin  was  exported 
mainly  in  concentrates  for  refining  abroad.  Eighty  percent  of  all 
exports  went  to  the  European  Economic  Community  and  the 
United  States,  with  the  balance  going  to  various  Latin  American 
countries  and  Czechoslovakia. 

Bolivia  was  a  founding  member  of  the  International  Tin  Coun- 
cil (ITC),  a  body  of  twenty- two  consumer  and  producer  countries 
that  since  1930  had  attempted  to  regulate  tin  markets  through  buffer 
stocks.  Bolivia,  however,  did  not  sign  the  ITC's  International  Tin 


136 


The  Economy 


Agreements  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  In  1983  Bolivia  joined  the 
newly  formed  Association  of  Tin  Producing  Countries,  which 
attempted — unsuccessfully — to  control  tin  prices  through  a  cartel 
approach  to  commodity  regulation.  After  a  period  of  decline,  tin 
prices  rebounded  in  the  late  1980s. 

Government  policies  since  the  early  1970s  had  sought  to  expand 
the  percentage  of  metallic  or  refined  tin  exports  that  offered  greater 
returns.  As  a  result,  smelting  increased  during  the  1970s,  but  in 
the  1980s  the  excessive  costs  of  the  nation's  highly  underutilized 
smelting  operations  contributed  to  the  decision  to  restructure 
Comibol. 

Silver,  zinc,  lead,  bismuth,  and  other  minerals  were  all  found 
with  Bolivia's  large  tin  reserves  and,  like  tin,  were  considered  stra- 
tegic minerals.  Because  of  the  common  mixture  of  ores,  tin  min- 
ing frequently  encompassed  the  mining  of  other  minerals  as  well. 
With  the  collapse  of  tin,  the  government  was  increasingly  interested 
in  exploiting  its  large  reserves  of  other  minerals,  particularly  sil- 
ver and  zinc.  Three  centuries  after  being  the  world's  largest 
producer  of  silver,  Bolivia  still  produced  225  tons  of  silver  in  1988, 
as  compared  with  about  140  tons  in  1987  (see  table  9,  Appendix). 
Zinc  reserves  were  large,  530,000  tons,  and  the  expansion  of  zinc 
production  enjoyed  growing  government  support.  Zinc  output  also 
rose  in  the  late  1980s  from  roughly  39,000  tons  in  1987  to  over 
53,000  tons  in  1988,  compared  with  47,000  tons  in  1975.  Nearly 
all  zinc  was  exported.  In  1987  the  government  declared  the  con- 
struction of  a  new  zinc  refinery  in  Potosi  a  national  priority. 
Although  the  authorities  considered  lead  a  minor  metal,  produc- 
tion increased  from  9,000  tons  in  1987  to  1 1 ,000  tons  in  1988.  Bis- 
muth reserves  were  estimated  at  4,100  tons,  and  production  in  1987 
reached  two- thirds  of  a  ton  entirely  by  small  miners.  Bolivia,  the 
site  of  the  International  Bismuth  Institute,  was  once  the  sole 
producer  of  bismuth  in  the  world. 

The  lead  and  silver  Karachipampa  facility  in  Potosi  was  the  na- 
tion's largest  smelter.  Completed  in  1984,  Karachipampa  employed 
Soviet  technology  but  was  constructed  by  a  company  from  the  Fed- 
eral Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany).  The  smelter's  gross 
capacity  was  an  enormous  51,000  tons  a  year.  Widely  criticized 
for  its  overcapacity,  the  plant  was  not  scheduled  to  open  until  1992 
at  the  earliest  because  of  insufficient  ore. 

Bolivia  mined  about  a  fifth  of  the  world's  antimony  in  the  late 
1980s  and  was  the  leading  producer  among  market  economies.  Pri- 
vate companies  were  responsible  for  all  antimony  production.  The 
largest  output  came  from  the  United  Mining  Company  (Empresa 
Minera  Unificada),  which  controlled  the  two  largest  antimony 


137 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

mines,  located  at  Chilcobija  and  Caracota,  both  in  Potosi  Depart- 
ment. Medium  and  small  miners  generated  an  average  of  9,500 
tons  of  antimony  a  year  in  the  mid-  to  late  1980s,  all  of  which  was 
exported.  Antimony,  a  strategic  mineral  used  in  flameproofing  com- 
pounds and  semiconductors,  was  exported  in  concentrates,  tri- 
oxides,  and  alloys  to  all  regions  of  the  world,  with  most  sales  going 
to  Britain  and  Brazil.  Antimony  reserves  in  1988  stood  at  350,000 
tons. 

Bolivia  was  also  the  leading  producer  of  tungsten  among  mar- 
ket economies.  But  the  dramatic  decline  in  tungsten  prices  in  the 
1980s  severely  hurt  production,  despite  the  fact  that  reserves  stood 
at  60,000  tons.  Medium  and  small  producers  accounted  for  over 
80  percent  of  the  country's  tungsten  production  in  the  late  1980s. 
The  International  Mining  Company's  Chojilla  mine  was  the  source 
of  most  tungsten  output.  Tungsten  production  sank  from  2,300 
tons  in  1984  to  barely  more  than  800  tons  in  1987  because  of  fall- 
ing international  prices.  Tungsten  was  sold  to  West  European,  East 
European,  and  Latin  American  countries,  as  well  as  to  the  United 
States. 

Other  Metals  and  Minerals 

Gold  prospecting  in  the  country's  rivers  and  mines  was  brisk 
in  the  late  1980s.  Because  of  Bolivia's  vast  territory  and  the  high 
value  of  gold,  contraband  gold  accounted  for  approximately  80  per- 
cent of  exports.  Official  gold  exports  were  approximately  five  tons 
in  1988,  up  sharply  from  less  than  one  ton  in  1985.  In  order  to 
capture  gold  as  a  reserve  for  the  Central  Bank,  in  1988  the  govern- 
ment offered  a  5  percent  bonus  over  the  international  price  of  gold 
on  local  sales  to  the  Central  Bank.  Gold  was  mined  almost  exclu- 
sively by  over  300  cooperatives  throughout  the  country,  along  with 
about  10,000  prospectors.  A  large  percentage  of  the  cooperatives 
worked  in  Tipuani,  Guanay,  Mapiri,  Huayti,  and  Teoponte  in 
a  21 ,000-hectare  region  set  aside  for  gold  digging  and  located  120 
kilometers  north  of  La  Paz.  Mining  cooperatives  in  the  late  1980s 
had  requested  an  additional  53,000  hectares  from  the  government 
for  gold  prospecting.  Others  panned  for  their  fortunes  in  remote 
villages  like  Araras  along  the  Brazilian  border  in  the  Beni.  Small- 
scale  operations  were  very  traditional  and  wasteful.  Analysts  pre- 
dicted that  more  commercial  production,  such  as  the  dredging  of 
alluvial  deposits,  would  maximize  gold  output.  A  few  medium-sized 
mining  operations,  as  well  as  the  Armed  Forces  National  Develop- 
ment Corporation  (Corporacion  de  las  Fuerzas  Armadas  para  el 
Desarrollo  Nacional — Cofadena)  became  involved  in  the  gold  rush 
in  the  1980s.  Government  policy  favored  augmenting  gold  reserves 


138 


The  Economy 


as  a  means  of  leveraging  more  external  finance  for  development 
projects. 

The  government's  mineral  policy  also  gave  a  high  priority  to 
exploiting  the  lithium  and  potassium  deposits  located  in  the  brines 
of  the  southern  Altiplano's  Uyuni  Saltpan,  estimated  to  be  the  larg- 
est of  their  kind  in  the  world.  The  United  States  Geological  Sur- 
vey, the  Bolivian  Geological  Survey  (Servicio  Geologico  de  Bolivia), 
and  others  discovered  large  reserves  of  lithium  in  1976.  By  1985 
Bolivia's  National  Congress  had  made  lithium  extraction  a  national 
priority  and  created  the  Industrial  Complex  of  the  Uyuni  Saltpan 
(Complejo  Industrial  de  los  Recursos  Evaporiticos  del  Salar  de 
Uyuni)  to  explore,  exploit,  and  market  lithium.  Because  the  ex- 
traction of  lithium  is  an  expensive,  technically  complex  process, 
the  government  sought  bids  for  some  foreign  investment  in  lith- 
ium in  the  late  1980s.  In  addition  to  an  estimated  5.5  million  tons 
of  lithium  reserves,  Bolivia  also  had  approximately  110  million  tons 
of  potassium,  3.2  tons  of  boron,  and  an  unknown  amount  of  mag- 
nesium associated  with  lithium. 

After  years  of  planning,  the  Mutun  iron  mine  was  scheduled 
to  open  its  first  of  two  plants  in  1989.  The  Mutun  mine,  the  sole 
responsibility  of  the  Mining  Company  of  the  Oriente,  was  expected 
to  yield  592,000  tons  of  iron  in  its  first  five  years  of  operation. 
Mutun  was  also  expected  to  produce  manganese.  The  prospects 
for  the  steel  industry,  which  was  controlled  by  the  Bolivian  Iron 
and  Steel  Promotion  Unit  (Unidad  Promotora  de  La  Siderurgia 
Boliviana,  formerly  known  as  the  Bolivian  Iron  and  Steel  Indus- 
try, or  Sidenirgica  Boliviana),  however,  were  bleak.  After  more 
than  a  decade  of  planning  a  national  steel  plant,  Bolivia  was  still 
unable  to  obtain  financing  for  such  a  project,  especially  given  inter- 
national overcapacity  in  steel.  The  possibility  of  a  national  steel 
plant  appeared  unlikely  at  the  end  of  the  1980s. 

Manufacturing  and  Construction 

The  manufacturing  sector  played  a  minor  role  in  the  economy, 
and  virtually  all  of  its  activity  was  linked  to  the  three  major  sectors 
of  the  economy:  agriculture,  hydrocarbons,  and  mining.  Since  1952 
manufacturing  had  contributed  generally  15  percent  of  GDP,  but 
the  deep  recession  of  the  1980s  severely  weakened  the  sector,  making 
it  contract  by  35  percent  from  1980  to  1987.  In  that  same  period, 
manufacturing's  share  of  GDP  dropped  to  about  10  percent,  and 
its  share  of  the  labor  force  fell  from  177,000  to  117,000,  or  about 
7  percent  of  all  workers.  The  sector  focused  primarily  on  the  domes- 
tic market,  but  in  1987  nontraditional  exports,  those  other  than 
hydrocarbons,  agriculture,  or  mining,  amounted  to  over  18  percent 


139 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

of  total  exports.  In  the  late  1980s,  manufacturers  continued  to  face 
onerous  structural  constraints:  a  small  domestic  market,  tight  credit 
policies,  high  transportation  costs,  a  lack  of  infrastructure,  insuffi- 
cient skilled  labor  and  managers,  excessive  contraband,  low  im- 
port tariffs,  dependence  on  imported  inputs,  and  the  declining 
production  of  domestic  inputs,  such  as  agricultural  goods,  petro- 
leum, and  minerals.  In  addition,  the  NPE  promoted  greater  ex- 
port orientation  and  diversity  for  the  sector,  goals  that  few 
manufacturers  were  capable  of  reaching  in  1985.  Similarly,  the 
NPE's  policies  of  import  liberalization  and  tight  credit,  low  con- 
sumer demand,  high  utility  costs,  and  a  new  VAT  hurt  most  man- 
ufacturers accustomed  to  operating  in  a  protectionist  environment. 
From  1985  to  1987,  more  than  130  manufacturing  firms  collapsed, 
and  the  industry  as  a  whole  operated  at  only  about  half  of  its  ca- 
pacity. 

Manufacturing  grew  at  a  pace  of  approximately  5  percent  an- 
nually during  the  1960s  and  1970s,  with  slightly  faster  growth  in 
the  second  decade.  Until  the  1970s,  the  government  limited  itself 
to  the  promotional  and  funding  activities  of  the  Bolivian  Develop- 
ment Corporation,  which  was  dissolved  in  1985  in  favor  of  regional 
development  corporations  in  each  department.  In  1971,  however, 
the  Industrial  Incentives  Law  granted  varying  import  duty  excep- 
tions on  capital  and  intermediate  goods,  accelerated  depreciation 
allowances,  deduction  of  indirect  taxes,  and  a  ten-year  income  ex- 
emption in  the  case  of  firms  establishing  themselves  in  the  depart- 
ments of  Pando,  Beni,  Chuquisaca,  and  Tarija.  To  manage  the 
law,  the  government  created  the  National  Investment  Institute  (In- 
stitute Nacional  de  Inversiones)  to  screen  and  set  priorities  for  in- 
vestment. Investment  in  manufacturing  increased  as  a  result  of  these 
measures,  including  a  surge  in  public  sector  spending  from  15  per- 
cent of  all  manufacturing  investment  to  40  percent  during  the  1970s. 
The  state's  investment  consisted  of  industrial  plants  in  milk  process- 
ing, cement,  sugar,  rubber,  ceramics,  metals,  glass,  petroleum, 
gas,  and  others,  some  of  which  were  eventually  sold  to  the  private 
sector.  The  1971  investment  law  was  revised  in  1981,  but  by  1986 
both  had  been  supplanted  by  the  NPE's  uniform  import  tariffs  and 
tax  reform.  Government  policy  in  the  late  1980s  focused  on  de- 
veloping a  new  investment  code  to  stimulate  increased  foreign  in- 
vestment in  export  industries.  Nevertheless,  Bolivia's  history  of 
political  instability,  labor  unrest,  and  structural  bottlenecks  made 
the  task  of  luring  foreign  investors  formidable. 

The  manufacturing  industry  consisted  of  nine  subsectors — food, 
beverages,  and  tobacco;  textiles,  garments,  and  leather  goods; 
chemicals  and  plastics;  timber,  wood  products,  and  furniture;  paper 


140 


The  Economy 


products;  nonmetallic  minerals;  basic  metal  industries;  metal 
production,  equipment,  and  machinery;  and  other  manufactur- 
ing. Many  producers  who  were  involved  in  manufacturing  and 
related  activities  were  classified  as  part  of  the  informal  sector  (see 
Informal  Sector,  this  ch.).  The  food,  textile,  and  metal  industries 
contributed  over  80  percent  of  all  manufacturing  output  and  over 
half  of  the  sector's  labor  force.  Except  for  the  manufacturing  of 
hydrocarbons  and  minerals,  there  was  little  heavy  industry.  Ex- 
cept for  agricultural  processing,  many  manufacturers  imported  as 
much  as  90  percent  of  their  final  product,  making  much  of  the  sector 
more  commercial  than  industrial.  Many  manufacturers  ran  only 
small  artisan  shops,  and  most  employed  fewer  than  ten  workers. 

The  agricultural  processing  subsector  consisted  of  milling  wheat 
into  flour,  crushing  oilseeds,  refining  sugar,  blending  coffee,  mill- 
ing cotton  into  textiles,  canning  fruits  and  vegetables,  packing  meat, 
and  processing  dairy  products.  Most  agro-industries  were  located 
in  Santa  Cruz  Department.  Domestically  made  beverages,  such 
as  soft  drinks,  beer,  and  chicha,  were  also  popular.  A  domestic 
cigarette  and  cigar  industry  also  existed.  In  1988  the  government 
considered  the  possibility  of  legally  exporting  cocaine  to  the  inter- 
national pharmaceutical  industry.  The  textile  industry,  another 
major  subsector,  had  played  a  declining  role  in  the  economy  since 
1970  as  mining  and  hydrocarbons  occupied  a  more  prominent  place. 
The  country's  ten  textile  mills  purchased  local  cotton  and  wool  for 
their  products,  but  the  poor  quality  of  garments,  leather  goods, 
and  footwear,  as  well  as  the  competition  from  smuggled  goods, 
undermined  growth. 

Industry  also  produced  a  significant  supply  of  local  chemicals, 
plastics,  medicines,  industrial  chemicals,  gases,  and  insecticides. 
The  subsector' s  output  was  expected  to  increase  vigorously  as  the 
gas  pipeline  project  with  Brazil  became  operative  and  the  manufac- 
ture of  fertilizers  and  other  petrochemicals  increased.  Although  the 
cutting  of  timber  accelerated  and  scores  of  small  sawmills  became 
active  in  the  1980s,  the  wood  and  furniture  industry  remained  well 
under  its  potential.  The  wood  industry  was  completely  unregulated, 
and  as  the  contraband  wood  trade  thrived,  Brazil  benefited  most 
from  the  increased  felling  of  Bolivian  trees.  Timber  also  fed  the  coun- 
try's paper  industry,  which  consisted  of  several  dozen  mostly  urban 
firms  producing  a  limited  product  line  of  paper  products,  newsprint, 
and  cardboard.  The  construction  industry  was  primarily  fed  by 
the  manufacturing  of  nonmetallic  minerals,  notably  limestone, 
clays,  and  salts,  all  of  which  were  found  in  abundant  quantities. 
The  metal  industries  fabricated  a  wide  range  of  ferrous  and  non- 
ferrous  metal  alloys,  iron,  steel,  tubing,  vehicles,  some  appliances, 


141 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

batteries,  electrical  transformers,  sewing  machines,  farm  equip- 
ment, bicycles,  and  transport  equipment.  In  addition,  Cofadena 
assembled  automobiles  in  Santivafiez,  Cochabamba  Department, 
as  part  of  an  agreement  with  the  Andean  Common  Market  (Ancom, 
also  known  as  the  Andean  Pact;  see  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4). 

The  country's  construction  industry  consisted  of  approximately 
600  mostly  small  companies  operating  primarily  in  the  cities  of  La 
Paz,  Santa  Cruz,  Cochabamba,  and  Oruro.  Construction  activ- 
ity soared  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  because  of  renewed  investment 
in  public  works  and  a  residential  housing  boom  in  the  larger 
cities.  Most  Bolivians,  however,  continued  to  build  their  own  homes 
by  more  traditional  means.  The  deep  recession  of  the  early  1980s 
and  the  extremely  tight  credit  policies  of  the  late  1 980s  slowed  con- 
struction activity  greatly.  In  the  late  1980s,  construction  contributed 
an  average  3  percent  of  GDP.  As  part  of  the  reactivation  policies 
of  1987,  the  government  created  the  National  Housing  Fund  (Fondo 
Nacional  de  Vivienda — Fonvi)  to  inject  credit  into  the  housing 
industry  and  to  foster  housing  construction  and  home  im- 
provements. 

With  the  exception  of  steel,  the  construction  industry  received 
most  of  its  inputs  from  domestic  industry:  limestone,  cement,  wood 
products,  and  metal  products.  The  cement  industry  in  particular 
was  very  large,  the  four  cement  plants  providing  an  installed  cement 
capacity  in  1989  of  700,000  tons  per  year.  The  three  state-owned 
cement  factories  were  run  by  their  respective  regional  development 
corporations  in  Tarija,  Cochabamba,  and  Chuquisaca  departments 
and  contributed  70  percent  of  total  cement  production.  The  only 
private  company,  the  Bolivian  Cement  Company  (Sociedad 
Boliviana  de  Cementos)  in  Viacha,  La  Paz  Department,  provided 
the  balance.  In  the  late  1980s,  about  400,000  tons  per  year  of  local 
limestone  fed  cement  production. 

Services 

Banking  and  Financial  Services 

In  the  late  1980s,  commercial  banks  were  characterized  by  their 
limited  numbers,  local  prominence,  concentration  of  deposits  in 
a  few  institutions,  and  generally  shaky  financial  status.  Only  thir- 
teen commercial  banks  remained  in  1988  after  several  locally  owned 
banks  had  closed  because  of  fraud  and  insolvency.  Ten  of  these 
institutions  were  local;  Citibank  was  the  only  United  States  bank 
still  operating  in  the  country.  The  three  foreign  banks  remained 
generally  inoperative,  however,  and  were  restricted  to  collecting 
previous  loans.  The  country's  top  five  banks — the  Bank  of  Santa 


142 


The  Economy 


Cruz,  Bolivian  American  Bank,  National  Bank,  Mercantile  Bank, 
and  Bank  of  Cochabamba — controlled  61  percent  of  deposits  at  the 
end  of  1988.  Over  half  of  the  local  commercial  banks  continued 
to  report  losses  in  1987.  In  1988  bad  debt  constituted  15  percent 
of  the  debt  owed  to  local  banks,  whereas  as  much  as  64  percent 
of  the  debt  owed  to  foreign  banks  was  deemed  bad.  Still,  commer- 
cial banks  remained  the  core  of  the  private  financial  sector,  with 
assets  totaling  US$357  million  in  1988. 

Government  policy  changes  over  the  legality  of  deposits  in  United 
States  dollars  severely  affected  the  sector  during  the  1980s  and  were 
directly  responsible  for  a  large  part  of  the  industry's  poor  health, 
although  financial  mismanagement  was  also  a  factor.  From  1976 
to  1982,  dollar  deposits  in  bank  accounts  were  legal;  by  1982  deposits 
in  United  States  currency  represented  90  percent  of  all  deposits. 
From  1982  to  1985,  however,  the  Siles  Zuazo  government  made 
it  illegal  to  retain  dollar  accounts  and  forced  banks  and  other  finan- 
cial institutions  to  convert  deposits  and  loans  into  Bolivian  pesos 
at  the  official  exchange  rate,  which  essentially  subsidized  the  fading 
peso.  Within  three  years  after  the  decision  of  the  Paz  Estenssoro 
government  in  1985  to  again  legalize  dollar  accounts,  70  percent 
of  all  savings  deposited  in  commercial  banks  were  in  dollars. 
Although  the  deregulation  of  the  financial  system  after  1985  helped 
to  expand  the  deposit  base,  legalizing  dollar  accounts  also  signified 
the  acceptance  of  millions  of  coca  dollars  that  were  laundered 
through  the  banking  system.  During  this  period,  moreover,  al- 
though many  banks  were  ravaged  by  hyperinflation,  other  banks 
and  their  top  officials  had  profited  handsomely  from  the  rampant 
currency  speculation  and  other  illegal  activities. 

Despite  deregulation,  banking  generally  remained  an  elite  ac- 
tivity characterized  by  extremely  high  collateral  requirements,  ex- 
cept for  top  clients.  Interest  rates  that  were  10  to  20  percent  above 
the  prevailing  rates  in  the  United  States  also  discouraged  individuals 
and  smaller  businesses  from  seeking  credit  from  commercial  banks. 
Informal  credit  markets  flourished.  Interest  rates  varied  consider- 
ably for  boliviano  deposits  and  loans  versus  dollar  deposits  and 
loans.  High  interest  rates  in  the  late  1980s  resulted  from  restric- 
tive monetary  policies,  continued  uncertainty  about  the  economy's 
future,  and  the  high  demand  for  credit. 

In  addition  to  normal  commercial  banks,  there  were  three  pri- 
vate sector  specialized  banks  that  lent  to  industry  but  mobilized 
their  capital  base  from  means  other  than  deposits.  In  the  late  1980s, 
the  only  specialized  bank  that  remained  highly  active  was  the  In- 
dustrial Bank  (Banco  Industrial),  which  was  established  in  1963. 
The  other  two  specialized  banks — the  Industrial  Finance  Bank 


143 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

(Banco  de  Financiamiento  Industrial)  and  the  Bolivian  Investment 
Bank  (Banco  de  Inversiones  Boliviano) — were  established  more  re- 
cently. 

Other  private  sector  financial  institutions  consisted  of  savings 
and  loans,  mortgage  houses,  credit  unions,  insurance  companies, 
exchange  houses,  and,  as  of  1988,  a  stock  exchange.  As  with  com- 
mercial banking,  these  entities  also  grew  rapidly  in  the  1960s  and 
1970s  and  greatly  contracted  in  the  1980s.  The  principal  savings 
and  loan  body,  the  Central  Housing  Savings  and  Loan  Board  (Caja 
Central  de  Ahorro  y  Prestamo  para  la  Vivienda — Cacen),  was  also 
the  institution  most  involved  with  mortgage  financing.  Established 
in  1966,  Cacen  operated  privately  through  a  network  of  coopera- 
tive savings  and  loan  associations  that  promoted  housing  construc- 
tion and  offered  mortgages  and  credit  for  home  remodeling.  Credit 
unions  were  also  popular  and  functioned  under  the  umbrella  of 
the  National  Federation  of  Credit  Unions  (Federacion  Nacional 
de  Bancos  Cooperativos).  Fifteen  companies,  five  of  which  were 
multinational  firms,  sold  insurance  policies  in  the  mid-1980s.  Ex- 
change houses,  which  dealt  with  international  currency  transac- 
tions, were  also  numerous,  as  were  a  whole  range  of  more  informal 
financial  intermediaries,  both  legal  and  illegal,  that  chiefly  oper- 
ated in  United  States  dollars.  In  1988  Bolivia  inaugurated  a  seventy- 
member  stock  exchange  that  was  financed  by  the  World  Bank  and 
AID. 

Public  sector  financial  institutions  included  the  Central  Bank, 
BAB,  Bamin,  and  the  State  Bank  (Banco  del  Estado — Banest). 
Under  the  1985  NPE  restructuring  policy,  the  Central  Bank  as- 
sumed the  outstanding  debt  of  other  public  sector  institutions.  The 
reorganization  of  BAB  confined  it  to  new  credit  limits  per  loan  and 
focused  its  business  on  loans  to  small  farmers  through  its  regional 
and  provincial  offices.  The  government  converted  Bamin  into  a 
mixed  entity,  both  publicly  and  privately  owned.  Bamin  primarily 
assisted  the  small  mining  sector  by  importing  mining  equipment 
and  marketing  ores.  As  a  result  of  the  modifications  in  public  sec- 
tor financial  institutions,  Banest  became  the  sole  development  bank 
of  the  central  government,  analyzing  investment  strategies,  writ- 
ing feasibility  studies,  and  providing  credit  to  the  private  sector 
through  forty-five  national  offices. 

Transportation 

Inadequate  and  costly  transportation,  a  result  of  the  country's 
rugged  terrain  and  scattered  population,  persisted  as  a  major  ob- 
stacle to  faster  growth  and  development  in  the  late  1980s.  Bolivia's 
access  to  foreign  markets  has  been  hampered  since  the  loss  of  its 


144 


The  Economy 


Pacific  Ocean  ports  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific  (1879-83).  The  coun- 
try's various  geographical  obstacles  and  inadequate  transportation 
infrastructure  also  have  hindered  economic  activity,  especially  after 
the  latter  shifted  from  the  highlands  to  the  lowlands.  Although  the 
infrastructure  has  grown  significantly  since  the  1952  Revolution, 
an  adequate  network  of  integrated  transportation  systems  was  still 
distant  in  the  late  1980s,  as  was  the  large  external  financing  it  would 
require. 

Bolivia's  road  system  accounted  for  the  overwhelming  share  of 
domestic  transportation.  In  1988  the  nation  had  over  41,000  kilo- 
meters of  roads,  3  percent  of  which  were  paved,  16  percent  gener- 
ally gravel,  and  81  percent  dirt.  La  Paz's  steep  and  narrow  streets 
were  primarily  cobblestone.  The  National  Road  Service  (Servicio 
Nacional  de  C  aminos — Senac),  established  in  1964  when  there  were 
only  3,000  kilometers  of  roads,  supervised  road  construction  and 
maintenance.  Observers  criticized  Senac  for  haphazard  road  de- 
velopment and  substandard  road  maintenance,  especially  along  the 
backbone  of  the  paved  system,  the  560-kilometer  Cochabamba- 
Santa  Cruz  highway  (see  fig.  10).  In  the  late  1980s,  Senac  received 
funding  from  the  Inter-American  Development  Bank  (IDB)  to 
repave  this  highway,  the  main  access  to  the  agricultural  frontier. 
In  addition,  the  winding  mountain  roads  were  poorly  maintained 
and  lacked  such  safety  features  as  guard  rails.  Mountain  and 
lowland  roads  were  often  impassable  during  the  rainy  season.  Many 
blamed  the  rapid  deterioration  of  roads  on  too-heavy,  poorly  main- 
tained trucks  and  buses.  Government  policies  were  aimed  at  en- 
larging and  improving  the  network  of  roads  in  the  lowlands, 
particularly  the  Chapare,  and  connecting  La  Paz  with  Santos, 
Brazil,  by  paved  road. 

At  least  110,000  vehicles  were  registered  in  the  late  1980s,  in- 
cluding about  71,000  automobiles  or  light  vehicles,  30,000  heavy 
trucks,  and  9,000  buses.  In  addition,  the  government  reported  about 
50,000  motorbikes,  18,000  jeeps,  27,000  vans,  and  37,000  light 
or  flatbed  trucks.  Flotas  (large  buses)  operated  primarily  in  rural 
areas,  and  micros  (small  buses)  operated  throughout  the  country; 
taxis  existed  in  larger  cities.  Many  Indians  in  the  highlands,  how- 
ever, still  used  llamas  as  a  main  means  of  transporting  loads,  such 
as  market  produce. 

The  most  important  transport  system  for  external  trade,  exclud- 
ing gas  and  oil  pipelines,  was  the  railroad.  The  country's  rail  sys- 
tem grew  in  stride  with  the  tin  industry,  and  the  first  railroad  from 
Oruro  to  Antofagasta,  Chile,  opened  in  the  1880s  (see  Reconstruc- 
tion and  the  Rule  of  the  Conservatives,  ch.  1).  The  railroad  later 
extended  from  Oruro  to  the  cities  of  La  Paz,  Cochabamba,  and 


145 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


A 


BRAZIL      /    ^  "\ 

/  ^Guayaramepr^ 
Riberalta\  \ 


—     —  International  boundary 

^  National  capital 

.  Populated  place 

  Pan  American  Highway 

  Road 

  Railroad 

4*  Airport 


0     50   100   150  Kilometers 

I — 1 — H — h  1 

50       100      150  Miles 


BRAZIL 


Puerto  \ 
Suarez . 


CHILE  \ 


Viflazon\\-  v 
ARGENTINA 


PARAGUAY 


Boundary  representation 
■ .  no?  necessarily  authoritative. 


Figure  10.  Transportation  System,  1988 


Potosi.  In  1913  a  railroad  from  La  Paz  to  Arica,  Chile,  also  was 
opened,  and  by  the  1950s  the  last  major  rail  system  from  Santa 
Cruz  to  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil,  was  completed.  By  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia 
possessed  an  extensive  but  aging  rail  system  that  operated  over  3 , 700 
kilometers  of  rail  and  carried  over  535  million  tons  of  freight  and 
2.4  million  passengers  a  year.  The  National  Railroad  Enterprise 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Ferrocarriles — Enfe)  operated  the  dilapidated 


146 


The  Economy 


system,  which  had  been  subject  to  World  Bank  rehabilitation 
schemes  since  1970.  Government  policies  emphasized  the  continued 
upgrading  of  the  railroad  and  plans  to  join  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific 
coasts  by  rail.  In  1988  the  Argentine  Railroad  Company  (Ferro- 
carriles  Argentinos)  began  work  on  the  Expreso  del  Sud  rail  line, 
which  would  connect  Buenos  Aires  with  La  Paz  and  eventually 
Matarani,  Peru,  to  form  the  Liberators  of  America  Corridor  (Co- 
rredor  Libertadores  de  America),  a  new  Atlantic-Pacific  railroad 
in  South  America.  The  Bolivian  government  also  contemplated 
another  transoceanic  railroad  linking  Santa  Cruz  to  Cochabamba 
and  thus  integrating  its  Andean  and  lowland  railroads. 

Air  travel  was  common  in  Bolivia  because  of  the  great  physical 
barriers  that  partitioned  the  country.  The  government's  Adminis- 
tration of  Airports  and  Aerial  Navigation  Auxiliary  Services  (Ad- 
ministration de  Aeropuertos  y  Servicios  Auxiliares  de  la  Navegacion 
Aerea — AASANA)  managed  the  country's  thirty-two  official  air- 
ports, only  six  of  which  had  paved  runways.  Bolivia  had  two  in- 
ternational airports:  Kennedy  International  Airport  outside  La  Paz 
(the  highest  commercial  airport  in  the  world)  and  Viru-Viru  in 
Santa  Cruz.  There  were  also  an  estimated  800  unofficial  airstrips, 
particularly  in  the  lowlands.  Many  of  these  were  clandestine  air- 
strips used  in  narcotics  trafficking. 

Most  air  activity  consisted  of  domestic  and  international  travel 
and  freight,  such  as  beef  exports.  The  frequent  need  to  rely  on  air 
transportation  for  both  domestic  and  international  freight  explained 
the  high  cost  of  transportation  in  general.  Lloyd  Bolivian  Airline 
(Lloyd  Aereo  Boliviano — LAB),  owned  both  by  the  government 
and  by  private  interests,  was  the  country's  main  airline  and  car- 
ried over  70  percent  of  all  domestic  passengers — over  1  million  pas- 
sengers a  year — in  the  1980s.  LAB  serviced  most  Bolivian  cities, 
most  major  Latin  American  cities,  and  many  other  international 
destinations.  Argentine,  Brazilian,  Chilean,  Colombian,  Para- 
guayan, United  States,  and  West  German  airlines  maintained 
flights  to  and  from  Bolivia.  Military  Air  Transports  (Transportes 
Aereos  Militares — TAM)  also  served  as  a  carrier  for  about  50,000 
domestic  passengers  a  year  (see  Civil  Aeronautics,  ch.  5).  In  addi- 
tion, 170  small  taxi  airplanes  supplemented  LAB's  domestic  ser- 
vice. There  were  two  major  air  taxi  companies. 

Rivers  also  served  as  a  common  means  of  transportation,  espe- 
cially in  the  underpopulated  eastern  plains.  Bolivia  possessed  more 
than  14,000  kilometers  of  inland  waterways,  including  Lake 
Titicaca,  the  highest  navigable  lake  in  the  world.  Over  thirty  rivers 
from  the  Amazon  system  flowed  through  Bolivia.  The  major  river 
systems  used  for  transport  were  the  Ichilo-Mamore,  Beni-Madre 


147 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


de  Dios-Orton,  and  Itenez-Paraguay.  Capitanias  (river  stations)  in 
Trinidad,  Riberalta,  and  Guayaramerin  oversaw  the  360  craft  that 
used  the  nation's  rivers.  Most  vessels  were  under  fifty  tons.  In  1988 
Bolivia  signed  an  agreement — also  approved  by  Argentina,  Brazil, 
Paraguay,  and  Uruguay — that  guaranteed  the  free  passage  of  ships 
on  the  Parana  and  Paraguay  rivers. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia  used  the  ports  and  warehousing  facili- 
ties at  Arica  and  Antofagasta  in  Chile,  Matarani  and  Ilo  in  Peru, 
and  Santos  in  Brazil  as  its  major  outlets  to  the  sea.  In  addition, 
Bolivia  was  granted  free  port  facilities  in  Rosario,  Argentina;  Nueva 
Palmira,  Uruguay;  and  Belem,  Brazil.  Nevertheless,  Bolivia  con- 
tinued to  negotiate  with  its  neighbors  about  access  to  its  former 
seaports,  long  a  matter  of  national  pride  for  the  country. 

Communications 

Bolivia's  evolving  communications  industry  helped  to  mitigate 
the  regionalism  that  characterized  the  nation.  In  1988  an  estimated 
3.5  million  radios  had  access  to  over  125  radio  stations  ranging 
in  power  from  0.5  to  25  kilowatts.  Both  the  size  of  the  country  and 
the  mountainous  terrain  explained  the  proliferation  of  stations, 
about  80  percent  of  which  were  AM  stations.  La  Paz  was  the  site 
of  forty  stations,  which  broadcast  in  Spanish,  Quechua,  and  Aymara 
(see  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  Most  stations  were  privately  owned. 

The  number  of  private  television  stations  in  La  Paz  increased 
during  the  1980s  to  seven,  five  of  which  were  private.  Other  cities 
hosted  private  stations  as  well.  Although  the  National  Television 
Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Television)  directed  all  govern- 
ment programming,  foreign  programs  dominated  most  stations. 
According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  Commerce,  Bolivia 
had  650,000  television  sets  in  1988. 

Bolivia  was  served  by  six  main  daily  newspapers  ranging  in  cir- 
culation from  20,000  to  80,000.  Ultima  Hora,  El  Diario,  Hoy,  and 
Presencia  were  the  largest  periodicals.  Santa  Cruz's  El  Mundo  and 
Cochabamba's  Los  Tiempos  were  smaller  but  were  also  circulated 
nationally. 

The  National  Telecommunications  Enterprise  (Empresa  Na- 
cional de  Telecomunicaciones — Entel)  managed  the  country's  tele- 
phone system.  Bolivia  had  only  65,000  telephones  in  1988,  or  fewer 
than  3  sets  per  100  inhabitants.  Only  users  located  in  the  major 
cities  enjoyed  direct-dialing  services.  Direct  international  dialing 
was  introduced  for  the  first  time  in  the  late  1980s.  Installing  a  new 
telephone,  however,  was  a  bureaucratic  and  expensive  endeavor. 
Nonetheless,  Entel  was  in  the  process  of  upgrading  the  telephone 
system,  with  Swedish  technical  assistance,  through  a  network  of 


148 


The  Economy 


twenty  ground  satellite  stations,  a  large  satellite  station  in  La  Paz,  a 
digital- switching  system  for  La  Paz  and  Santa  Cruz  and  eventually 
other  cities,  and  an  expanded  microwave  system.  In  the  1980s,  the 
telephone  system  also  had  limited  capacity  for  facsimile,  telex,  and 
computer  modem  communications.  That  was  expected  to  change 
by  1993,  however,  when  the  Caracas-based  satellite  communica- 
tions system,  Condor,  would  begin  to  service  the  Andean  region, 
including  Bolivia,  and  provide  television,  telephone,  telex,  and  data 
transmission  to  rural  and  urban  areas  throughout  Bolivia.  Several 
hundred  post  offices  existed,  many  of  which  had  telegraph  capability. 
Bolivia  was  a  member  of  the  Andean  Postal  Union  and  the  Inter- 
national Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat). 

Tourism 

Tourism  was  a  small  but  growing  activity  in  Bolivia  with  potential 
for  greater  foreign  exchange  earnings.  The  entry  of  tourists  jumped 
from  22,250  in  1970  to  155,400  in  1980  but  had  fallen  to  127,000 
by  1985,  or  about  1  percent  of  all  tourism  in  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean.  Tourism  was  estimated  to  provide  as  much  as 
US$50  million  in  foreign  exchange.  Over  300  hotels  and  scores 
of  motels  and  tourist  residences — with  about  9,000  rooms  and 
16,000  beds — provided  accommodations  for  travelers.  Latin  Ameri- 
cans represented  nearly  half  of  all  visitors,  followed  by  Europeans 
and  North  Americans.  A  small  domestic  tourist  industry  also 
existed.  Major  tourist  attractions  were  the  country's  snow-covered 
mountains,  Lake  Titicaca,  pre-Inca  ruins  at  Tiwanaku  (Tiahuanaco), 
the  vast  tropical  areas,  remote  national  parks,  sightseeing  on  the 
national  railroad,  and  the  Indian  cultures.  The  government's  Boliv- 
ian Institute  of  Tourism  (Instituto  Boliviano  de  Turismo)  promoted 
Bolivian  tourism  by  emphasizing  the  nation's  history  and  culture, 
as  well  as  its  beauty  and  varied  terrain. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 
Foreign  Trade 

In  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia's  pattern  of  trade  was  in  a  state  of  tran- 
sition. Since  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  Bolivia  had  de- 
pended on  only  a  few  exports  to  generate  the  foreign  exchange 
necessary  to  import  the  goods  and  services  that  the  country  did 
not  make  or  provide.  The  volatility  in  world  prices  of  these  export 
commodities,  however,  made  economic  planning  difficult  and 
generated  frequent  unstable  economic  cycles. 

Official  exports  in  1987  stood  at  US$569  million,  the  lowest  level 
in  the  1980s  up  to  that  year  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  Reports  in 


149 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

1988,  however,  indicated  a  rise  to  US$599  million,  which  was  still 
low  compared  with  levels  registered  earlier  in  the  decade.  Exports 
were  severely  hurt  by  depressed  commodity  prices  and  the  struc- 
tural changes  that  those  price  movements  caused  in  production. 
As  a  result  of  lower  export  prices,  the  country  suffered  declining 
terms  of  trade  in  the  1980s,  often  exporting  more  goods  but  for 
less  total  value.  Exports  in  1987,  for  example,  purchased  only  53 
percent  of  the  amount  earned  by  exports  in  1980.  A  substantial 
shift  occurred  in  the  1980s  in  the  relative  importance  of  tin  and 
natural  gas  exports.  As  a  percentage  of  total  exports,  tin  declined 
from  nearly  37  percent  in  1980  to  just  over  12  percent  in  1987. 
During  the  same  period,  natural  gas  increased  from  just  over  21 
percent  to  nearly  44  percent  of  exports.  Analysts  contended, 
however,  that  a  large  portion  of  economic  activity — the  export  of 
coca  paste  or  cocaine  and  the  smuggling  of  legal  goods  from 
Bolivia — was  not  reflected  in  official  export  figures.  Estimates  of 
coca-related  exports  ranged  from  US$600  million  to  US$1  billion. 
Analysts  believed  that  tens  of  millions  of  dollars  were  earned  in 
contraband  smuggling. 

Trade  policy  after  the  world  tin  collapse  of  1985  concentrated 
on  making  the  external  sector  more  market  oriented  and  on  diver- 
sifying the  export  base.  The  government  emphasized  import  liber- 
alization through  tariff  reform,  realistic  exchange  rates,  aggressive 
import  tariff  collection,  and  the  promotion  of  nontraditional  agro- 
exports  and  minerals.  The  attempts  to  force  Bolivian  producers 
to  compete  with  the  prices  of  international  products  after  years  of 
protection,  however,  were  often  unsuccessful.  The  government  also 
contracted  the  services  of  several  West  European  surveillance  com- 
panies to  ensure  that  tariffs  were  paid.  Import  liberalization  poli- 
cies helped  cause  a  negative  trade  balance,  which  totaled  US$188 
million  in  1987.  Nonetheless,  the  government  hoped  that  market- 
oriented  policies  would  cause  exports  to  expand.  After  1985  all 
export  taxes  were  abolished,  and  constant  devaluations  of  the 
Bolivian  peso  through  a  floating  exchange  rate  helped  lower  the 
prices  of  exports  and  thus  improve  their  competitiveness.  The 
government  also  decreed  tax  rebates  for  exports  and  established 
an  export  promotion  institute. 

Diversification,  mainly  toward  agro-exports,  was  another  key 
goal  of  trade  policy.  Nontraditional  exports,  composed  mainly  of 
sugar,  coffee,  soybeans,  beef,  and  timber,  reached  a  high  of  nearly 
19  percent  of  all  exports  in  1987.  Observers  doubted,  however, 
that  such  exports  would  grow  at  the  rapid  pace  many  government 
officials  expected  because  of  longstanding  structural  obstacles  and 
a  lack  of  credit  for  producers.  In  addition,  despite  the  rise  of  natural 


150 


A  ski  lodge  building  on  Chacaltaya 
(elevation  about  5, 500  meters)  near  La  Paz 
Courtesy  Harvey  W.  Reed 


151 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


gas  and  the  decline  of  tin,  minerals  and  hydrocarbons  continued 
to  represent  the  overwhelming  percentage  of  legal  exports. 

Total  official  imports  in  1987  reached  just  over  US$777  million, 
the  highest  level  in  the  decade  since  the  1981  figure  of  US$918  mil- 
lion (see  table  11,  Appendix).  Although  the  1988  figure  registered 
a  drop  to  about  US$700,  the  1987  figure  masked  the  reality  of  an 
import  demand  in  excess  of  US$1  billion,  as  contraband  imports 
were  placed  at  between  US$500  million  and  US$600  million.  With 
the  introduction  in  August  1985  of  a  uniform  tariff  of  20  percent, 
imports  increased.  The  tariff  for  capital  goods  decreased  to  10  per- 
cent in  1988,  a  level  that  was  scheduled  to  be  uniform  once  again 
by  1990.  Unlike  the  country's  exports,  the  composition  of  imports 
changed  only  slightly  as  a  result  of  the  restructuring  of  the  econ- 
omy after  1985.  Capital  goods,  mostly  machinery  and  equipment 
for  industry  and  transport,  accounted  for  nearly  42  percent  of  all 
imports  in  1987,  followed  by  raw  materials  and  intermediate  goods, 
dedicated  primarily  to  import-intensive  manufacturing  (40  percent) 
and  consumer  goods  (16  percent). 

Bolivia's  trade  was  increasingly  integrated  into  neighboring  Latin 
American  economies.  In  1987  about  51  percent  of  all  exports  went 
to  Argentina;  natural  gas  accounted  for  most  of  that  total.  During 
the  1980s,  Brazil  surpassed  the  United  States  as  the  leading  sup- 
plier of  Bolivian  imports.  Bolivia  was  active  in  groups  that  promoted 
regional  economic  cooperation,  such  as  ANCOM  and  the  Latin 
American  Integration  Association  (Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de 
Integracion — ALADI),  the  successor  to  the  Latin  American  Free 
Trade  Association  (LAFTA).  ANCOM  had  been  established  in 
1969  by  Bolivia,  Colombia,  Chile,  Ecuador,  and  Peru,  which  en- 
dorsed the  sectoral  industrial  development  programs  in  the  pact's 
Cartagena  Agreement.  After  Chile  withdrew  its  membership  in 
1976,  ANCOM  members  generally  collaborated  on  most  issues. 
A  major  exception,  however,  was  the  issue  of  foreign  investment, 
which  was  introduced  by  Ecuador  and  continued  to  jeopardize 
regional  economic  harmony  (see  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4).  With 
the  election  of  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government  in  1985,  Bolivia 
sought  to  relax  ANCOM 's  investment  code.  Bolivia  received  pri- 
ority treatment  in  ANCOM  as  its  poorest  member.  In  the  1980s, 
Bolivia  also  developed  a  growing  interest  in  ALADI. 

Balance  of  Payments 

Three  major  factors — reduced  access  to  international  capital, 
domestic  economic  instability,  and  a  drop  in  commodity  prices — 
greatly  disrupted  Bolivia's  balance  of  payments  during  the  1980s. 
As  the  structural  weaknesses  of  the  economy  became  more  apparent 


152 


The  Economy 


in  the  late  1970s,  foreign  banks  scaled  back  their  loan  commitments. 
This  trend  was  exacerbated  by  the  general  economic  chaos  that 
reigned  during  the  first  half  of  the  1980s.  Recession  and  hyper- 
inflation discouraged  new  foreign  direct  investment,  and  policies 
that  attempted  to  eliminate  the  predominance  of  the  United  States 
dollar  in  the  financial  sector  spurred  capital  flight.  Weakening  com- 
modity prices  shrank  export  revenues,  causing  a  negative  trade 
balance  after  1985.  Fortunately,  however,  multilateral  and  bilateral 
sources  provided  Bolivia  with  generous  amounts  of  financing  to 
meet  its  shortfalls  and  allowed  it  to  sustain  international  economic 
transactions. 

Bolivia  experienced  persistent  deficits  in  its  current  account  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  primarily  as  a  result  of  a  large  chronic  debit  on  the 
service  portion  of  this  account  and  significant  trade  imbalances  after 
1985  (see  table  12,  Appendix).  From  1980  to  1985,  the  current  ac- 
count deficit  equaled  approximately  10  percent  of  GDP,  or  about 
three  times  the  shortfall  of  the  previous  fifteen  years.  The  last  cur- 
rent account  surplus  occurred  in  1973  and  was  the  result  of  oil  price 
windfalls.  In  1987  the  negative  balance  on  the  current  account  stood 
at  nearly  US$488  million,  more  than  any  other  year  in  the  decade. 
Although  trade  was  expected  to  improve  slowly,  the  outlook  for 
a  reversal  of  the  current  account  deficit  was  not  bright. 

With  the  decline  in  new  foreign  direct  investment  and  private 
financing  in  the  early  1980s,  the  capital  account  was  negative  every 
year  from  1982  to  1987,  except  for  1984.  Overseas  investment  in 
Bolivia  from  1983  to  1987  averaged  a  mere  US$1 1  million,  a  con- 
sequence of  the  poor  macroeconomic  climate,  unclear  positions  on 
regional  investment  rules,  the  lack  of  a  new  national  investment 
code,  and  an  unfavorable  history  of  relations  with  the  foreign  pri- 
vate sector.  The  only  significant  inflows  into  the  economy  during 
the  1980s  were  from  international  sources  like  the  IMF  and  the 
World  Bank,  along  with  multilateral  and  bilateral  creditors,  whose 
balance  of  payments  support  propped  up  the  economy.  Although 
foreign  exchange  reserves  dropped  in  the  1980s,  special  financing 
from  international  public  institutions  and  the  nonpayment  of 
Bolivia's  commercial  debt  after  1984  limited  the  degree  of  damage. 
Central  Bank  officials  reported  that  gross  reserves  at  the  end  of 
1988  totaled  US$404  million  and  net  reserves,  US$181  million. 
Bolivia,  however,  did  maintain  over  US$300  million  in  gold 
reserves,  and  those  reserves  were  mounting. 

Debt 

Bolivia  was  the  first  country  during  the  Great  Depression  to 
default  on  its  foreign  debt,  and  not  until  1971  did  the  government 


153 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

return  to  international  capital  markets  for  financing.  External 
financing,  mostly  newly  generated  petrodollars,  quadrupled  dur- 
ing the  1970s  as  political  stability  and  economic  growth  improved 
Bolivia's  creditworthiness.  As  foreign  financing  dried  up  in  1978, 
foreign  banks  also  negatively  reassessed  Bolivia's  ability  to  service 
more  debt.  In  1984  Bolivia  became  the  first  Latin  American  country 
to  declare  an  official  moratorium  on  debt  payments  to  commer- 
cial banks,  and  it  continued  to  withhold  payment  through  1988. 
Bolivia,  however,  maintained  a  good  repayment  record  with  offi- 
cial creditors,  such  as  the  IMF  and  World  Bank,  recognizing  they 
were  its  lenders  of  last  resort. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia  had  accrued  one  of  the  highest  per 
capita  debts  in  Latin  America.  The  country's  total  external  debt 
amounted  to  US$4.6  billion  in  1986,  or  slighdy  more  than  its  GDP 
for  that  year.  Its  debt-servicing  requirements  amounted  to  US$161 
million  in  1986,  creating  a  debt-service  ratio  (debt  as  a  percentage 
of  exports)  of  approximately  24  percent.  Fortunately,  about  90  per- 
cent of  the  country's  debt  was  long-term  liability.  The  structure 
of  the  country's  debt  changed  drastically  during  the  decade.  Offi- 
cial multilateral  and  bilateral  creditors  composed  42  percent  of  total 
debt  in  1980,  compared  with  over  75  percent  by  1988.  Of  the  eigh- 
teen most  heavily  indebted  developing  countries  tracked  by  the 
World  Bank,  Bolivia  had  the  second  lowest  percentage  of  its  debt 
with  official  creditors.  The  rapid  changes  in  the  structure  of  the 
liability  were  caused  by  the  discontinuation  of  new  private  loans, 
large  increases  in  official  lending,  and  the  government's  purchases 
of  its  private  debt  in  1988.  Argentina  and  Brazil,  two  of  the  de- 
veloping world's  largest  debtor  nations,  were  the  country's  largest 
bilateral  lenders. 

Despite  unsteady  relations  with  its  commercial  creditors,  Bolivia 
achieved  at  least  six  debt  reschedulings  or  deferments  from  1980 
to  1988.  These  agreements  typically  included  longer  grace  periods, 
extended  repayment  schedules,  and,  occasionally,  lower  interest 
rates.  As  the  Bolivian  treasury  reportedly  neared  depletion  during 
the  1980s,  such  measures  had  become  absolutely  necessary  in  order 
to  maintain  the  country's  solvency.  Most  of  the  reschedulings  oc- 
curred in  the  multilateral  forum  of  the  Paris  Club  (see  Glossary), 
a  clearinghouse  for  private  and  certain  public  debt  negotiations. 
Outside  the  Paris  Club  framework,  Bolivia  also  rescheduled  its 
US$900  million  bilateral  debt  with  Argentina  in  1987  on  very 
favorable  terms,  including  a  fifteen-year  grace  period  and  a  twenty- 
five-year  repayment  timetable.  According  to  Bolivia's  minister  of 
finance,  the  reschedulings  reduced  the  country's  debt- service  bur- 
den by  50  percent  beginning  in  1988. 


154 


The  Economy 


In  addition  to  rescheduling,  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government 
sought  to  reduce  its  debt  through  complex  international  financial 
schemes.  In  1988  Bolivia  negotiated  a  debt-purchase  arrangement 
with  commercial  creditors,  many  of  which  had  already  written  off 
or  substantially  reduced  the  value  of  the  loans  on  their  books.  In 
order  to  forestall  a  complete  loss  on  their  loans,  bankers  agreed 
to  a  program  whereby  the  Bolivian  government  purchased  its  debt 
on  secondary  markets,  where  such  liabilities  are  traded,  for  1 1  per- 
cent of  its  face  value,  or  at  an  89  percent  discount  of  the  original 
debt.  A  special  escrow  fund  administered  by  the  IMF  and  financed 
by  donations  from  West  European  and  Latin  American  govern- 
ments enabled  Bolivia  to  pay  for  the  discounted  debt.  By  June  1988, 
Bolivia  had  acquired  nearly  50  percent  of  its  private  debt  through 
buybacks  and  sought  to  obtain  the  remainder  of  the  debt  by  the 
end  of  1989.  Another  debt-management  approach  adopted  by  Paz 
Estenssoro,  a  debt-for-equity  swap,  allowed  commercial  banks  to 
exchange  a  predetermined  value  of  the  debt  for  equity  in  a  Bolivian 
enterprise,  usually  a  semiautonomous  one  slated  for  privatization. 
The  government's  third  debt-reduction  approach,  a  much  smaller 
operation,  allowed  a  United  States  environmental  organization  to 
purchase  US$650,000  of  Bolivian  debt  at  an  85  percent  discount 
in  a  "debt-for-nature"  swap  and  receive  B250,000  to  manage  a 
135,000-hectare  wildlife  preserve  in  Beni  Department. 

As  a  result  of  the  country's  aggressive  debt-management  pro- 
gram, Bolivia  actually  lowered  its  liability  in  1988.  Furthermore, 
it  became  the  only  Latin  American  nation  to  avoid  exporting  cap- 
ital during  the  debt  crisis.  Instead,  it  obtained  more  external  financ- 
ing, although  solely  from  public  sources,  than  it  paid  out  in  interest 
and  principal  on  its  debt.  Debt  management,  however,  remained 
a  controversial  political  issue,  especially  for  critics  of  the  military 
governments  in  the  1970s  that  accumulated  the  bulk  of  the  liabili- 
ties. Restructuring  or  repayment  of  that  debt  was  perceived  by  some 
as  legitimizing  gross  economic  mismanagement.  The  debt  was  con- 
sidered negotiable  enough  that  Roberto  Suarez  Gomez,  Bolivia's 
reputed  "King  of  Cocaine,"  even  offered  to  pay  off  the  country's 
multibillion-dollar  debt  in  the  early  1980s  to  avoid  extradition  (see 
The  Security  Forces,  ch.  5). 

Foreign  Assistance 

As  one  of  the  two  poorest  countries  in  South  America,  Bolivia 
received  generous  amounts  of  multilateral  and  bilateral  foreign  as- 
sistance. The  most  important  multilateral  lenders  were  the  IMF, 
the  World  Bank,  and  the  IDB,  all  of  which  furnished  mostly  con- 
cessionary loans.  The  IMF  and  the  World  Bank  provided  several 


155 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

hundred  million  dollars  to  the  Bolivian  government  for  the  restruc- 
turing of  the  financial  system,  debt  management,  balance  of  pay- 
ments support,  the  Emergency  Social  Fund,  and  various  other 
projects.  In  1988  Bolivia  received  US$187  million  in  World  Bank 
funding  under  the  Enhanced  Structural  Adjustment  Facility,  a  new 
loan  mechanism  available  only  to  the  poorest  members  of  the  bank. 
The  IDB,  another  major  multilateral  donor,  has  lent  the  country 
in  excess  of  US$1  billion  since  the  early  1960s  for  projects  in  infra- 
structure, mining,  industry,  agriculture,  energy,  health,  education, 
and  other  fields.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  IDB's  project  funding  focused 
on  repair  to  the  Cochabamba-Santa  Cruz  highway,  export  financ- 
ing, small  farming  projects,  tax  reform,  and  the  informal  sector. 
Other  multilateral  organizations  present  in  Bolivia  were  the  Andean 
Development  Corporation,  the  United  Nations,  and  the  Organi- 
zation of  American  States. 

Bilateral  overseas  development  agencies  in  the  first  half  of  the 
1980s  granted  Bolivia  an  average  of  US$170  million  a  year,  or  about 
6  percent  of  GDP,  and  the  United  States  on  average  provided  a 
quarter  of  grant  monies.  As  with  multilateral  agencies,  bilateral 
agencies  responded  favorably  to  the  orthodox  policy  reforms  at- 
tempted by  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government.  The  United  States, 
which  had  provided  US$1 . 18  billion  from  1946  to  1986,  remained 
Bolivia's  single  most  important  bilateral  donor  in  the  late  1980s. 
AID  transferred  over  US$61  million  to  the  country  in  1988  and 
earmarked  US$77  million  for  1989.  Over  half  of  that  assistance 
was  directed  at  PL-480  Food  for  Peace  programs,  and  another  third 
went  into  specific  development  projects.  An  increasing  percentage 
of  assistance  was  being  targeted  for  balance  of  payments  support 
in  the  form  of  Economic  Support  Funds.  AID  supported  market- 
oriented  policy  reforms,  assisted  in  narcotics  control  and  coca  eradi- 
cation efforts,  and  funded  health,  education,  and  informal  sector 
projects  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  the  economic  crisis.  Other  United 
States  agencies,  including  the  Drug  Enforcement  Administration, 
the  Department  of  Defense,  and  the  Inter- American  Foundation, 
also  provided  economic  assistance  to  the  country.  The  Peace  Corps, 
which  was  expelled  by  the  Bolivian  government  in  1971,  hoped 
to  return  in  the  early  1990s.  Japan,  Canada,  and  most  West  Eu- 
ropean countries  also  extended  bilateral  assistance.  The  Soviet 
Union  provided  Bolivia  with  an  estimated  US$204  million  from 
1954  to  1987. 

*    *  * 

Definitive,  book-length  studies  of  the  Bolivian  economy  in  the 
1980s  were  unavailable  in  early  1989.  The  literature  tended  to  focus 


156 


The  Economy 


on  labor  unions  and  the  history  of  tin.  Nor  were  there  any  com- 
prehensive, book-length  studies  of  important  economic  develop- 
ments, such  as  the  1985  tin-market  crash  and  the  1985  NPE.  The 
most  comprehensive  work  on  the  tin  industry,  The  Economics  of  Tin 
Mining  in  Bolivia  by  Mahmood  Ali  Ayub  and  Hideo  Hashimoto, 
was  written  before  the  crash.  An  informative  monograph  on  the 
collapse  is  the  London-based  Latin  America  Bureau's  The  Great  Tin 
Crash  by  John  Crabtree,  Gavan  Duffy,  and  Jenny  Pearce.  A  use- 
ful monograph  on  the  NPE  is  Bolivia  }s  Economic  Crisis  by  Juan 
Antonio  Morales  and  Jeffrey  Sachs.  There  are  also  few  in-depth 
studies  on  the  important  revenue-producing  hydrocarbon  and  coca 
industries.  Data  on  Bolivia's  coca  eradication  and  other  antidrug 
efforts  can  be  found  in  the  periodic  International  Narcotics  Control  Stra- 
tegy Report,  published  by  the  United  States  Department  of  State's 
Bureau  of  International  Narcotics  Matters,  and  in  Drug  Control, 
published  by  the  United  States  General  Accounting  Office.  Among 
the  few  journal  articles  on  the  Bolivian  economy  is  James  M. 
Malloy's  "Bolivia's  Economic  Crisis." 

A  definitive  source  of  economic  data  on  Bolivia  also  was  lacking 
in  early  1989,  and,  as  with  many  developing  nations,  data  varied 
greatly.  Useful  Bolivian  sources  include  publications  of  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  and  the  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Coordination's  Na- 
tional Statistical  Institute,  such  as  the  annual  Bolivia  en  cifras.  The 
best  English-language  sources  include  the  IMF's  International  Finan- 
cial Statistics  Yearbook,  1988;  the  World  Bank's  Annual  Report,  1988; 
the  IDB's  discussion  of  Bolivia  in  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin 
America;  and  Country  Profile:  Bolivia,  1988-89,  published  by  the 
London-based  Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Useful  monthly  news- 
letters include  Latin  America  Regional  Reports  and  Latin  American 
Monitor.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bib- 
liography.) 


157 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Symbolism  on  the  back  of  the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku 


IN  1989  VICTOR  PAZ  ESTENSSORO  stepped  down  as  presi- 
dent of  Bolivia  and  on  August  6  handed  over  power  to  the  third 
democratically  elected  leader  of  the  1980s.  Paz  Estenssoro  presided 
over  four  years  of  economic  and  political  stability  following  two 
decades  of  military  rule  and  nearly  six  years  of  a  tumultuous  tran- 
sition to  democracy. 

When  Paz  Estenssoro  assumed  office  on  August  6,  1985,  he  in- 
herited a  society  besieged  by  the  most  profound  political  and  eco- 
nomic crisis  in  its  history.  Years  of  military  rule  had  destroyed  the 
nation's  political  institutions  and  eroded  democratic  traditions.  The 
economy,  in  turn,  had  experienced  a  catastrophic  downturn  owing 
to  years  of  mismanagement,  the  exhaustion  of  a  state-centered  eco- 
nomic development  strategy,  and  extreme  dependence  on  a  single 
export  commodity — tin.  By  1985  inflation  had  reached  24,000  per- 
cent, and  growth  rates  were  declining  steadily  by  over  10  percent 
annually. 

To  revive  an  agonizing  nation,  Paz  Estenssoro,  the  old  politi- 
cian who  had  led  the  1952  Revolution,  transcended  electoral  and 
party-based  politics.  To  address  the  economic  crisis,  he  commis- 
sioned a  team  of  young  technocrats.  The  resulting  New  Economic 
Policy  imposed  a  severe  austerity  program  that  stabilized  the  econ- 
omy and  fundamentally  transformed  Bolivia's  development  strat- 
egy- 

The  political  crisis,  characterized  by  a  recurrent  conflict  between 
the  executive  and  legislative  branches,  required  equally  innova- 
tive answers.  Soon  after  the  announcement  of  the  New  Economic 
Policy,  Paz  Estenssoro  and  his  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Move- 
ment signed  the  Pact  for  Democracy  with  former  General  Hugo 
Banzer  Suarez's  Nationalist  Democratic  Action  party.  With  the 
Nationalist  Democratic  Action  party's  support  in  the  National  Con- 
gress, the  New  Economic  Policy  and  related  legislation  were  im- 
plemented successfully.  The  Pact  for  Democracy  provided  the 
needed  support  for  implementation  of  the  government's  economic 
policy,  as  well  as  the  basis  for  four  years  of  political  stability. 

Although  originally  envisioned  as  a  long-term  agreement  that 
could  establish  the  foundations  of  Bolivian  democracy,  the  Pact 
for  Democracy  proved  to  be  a  temporary  marriage  of  convenience 
that  the  partners  renounced  owing  to  irreconcilable  differences.  By 
February  1989,  the  Pact  for  Democracy  had  collapsed,  mainly  be- 
cause the  campaign  for  the  May  elections  had  accentuated  the 


161 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

differences  between  the  two  parties.  Most  Bolivian  analysts  hoped 
that  the  three  years  of  the  Pact  for  Democracy  that  enabled  the 
New  Economic  Policy  legislation  to  go  forward  were  enough  to  es- 
tablish the  basis  for  positive  growth  in  the  1990s.  Each  of  the  three 
leading  presidential  candidates  in  the  May  elections  committed  him- 
self to  the  basic  premises  of  the  New  Economic  Policy. 

Still,  the  most  complex  issue  in  Bolivian  politics  in  1989  remained 
the  question  of  governability.  The  Pact  for  Democracy  enabled  Paz 
Estenssoro  and  the  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement  to  govern 
for  four  years.  With  parties  focused  on  the  immediate  task  of  get- 
ting elected,  the  more  serious  task  of  establishing  the  foundations 
of  a  stable  political  system  was  set  aside.  The  key  issue  was  whether 
or  not  political  parties  would  be  able  to  transcend  the  mundane 
worries  about  electoral  politics  to  lay  the  groundwork  for  democratic 
rule.  Their  failure  threatened  to  precipitate  another  round  of  mili- 
tary intervention. 

Constitutional  Background 

The  Constituent  Assembly  that  founded  Bolivia  in  1825  wrote 
the  nation's  first  constitution  establishing  a  centralized  government 
with  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  branches.  Based  on  the 
United  States  Constitution  and  borrowing  a  few  premises  from  the 
French  Republic,  the  first  charter  adopted  liberal  and  representa- 
tive democracy  granting  the  congress  autonomy  and  policy-making 
prerogatives.  This  constitution,  however,  was  never  adopted. 

On  November  26,  1826,  the  Bolivarian  constitution,  written  in 
Lima  by  the  liberator  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios,  replaced  the  origi- 
nal document  and  instituted  a  fourfold  separation  of  powers  among 
a  lifetime  presidency,  an  independent  judiciary,  a  tricameral  con- 
gress, and  an  electoral  body.  The  tricameral  congress  comprised 
the  Senate  and  the  Chamber  of  Tribunes,  whose  members  had  fixed 
terms,  as  well  as  a  Chamber  of  Censors,  whose  members  served 
for  life.  Theoretically,  the  Senate  was  responsible  for  codifying  laws 
and  reorienting  church  and  court  officials,  the  Chamber  of  Tri- 
bunes possessed  general  legislative  powers,  and  the  Chamber  of 
Censors  had  oversight  powers  that  included  impeachment  of  mem- 
bers of  the  executive.  In  reality,  the  legislature's  key  functions  were 
to  name  the  president  and  to  approve  a  list  of  successors  submit- 
ted by  the  president.  One  of  the  long-lasting  effects  of  the  Bolivar- 
ian constitution  was  the  establishment  of  an  executive-based  system. 
The  Bolivarian  constitution  reflected  the  Spanish  tradition  of 
bureaucratic  patrimonialism  in  which  power  rested  in  the  execu- 
tive branch.  Historians  have  argued  retrospectively  that  Bolivar's 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


constitution  suited  the  nation's  political  structure  better  than  the 
liberal  constitutions  that  followed. 

In  many  ways,  the  Bolivarian  constitution  reflected  Bolivar's 
uneasiness  about  mob  rule.  Like  the  founding  fathers  of  the  United 
States,  Bolivar  considered  necessary  the  prevention  of  rule  by  the 
masses.  As  a  result,  the  franchise  was  extended  only  to  those  lit- 
erate in  Spanish  who  either  possessed  property  then  worth  400 
bolivianos  or  engaged  in  an  art,  in  a  science,  or  in  some  other 
remunerative  position.  Domestic  and  personal  servants  were  also 
denied  the  franchise.  In  short,  voting  rights  were  limited  to  a  very 
small  and  privileged  elite.  Voting  qualifications  and  restrictions 
remained  until  universal  suffrage  was  adopted  during  the  1952 
Revolution. 

Mostly,  however,  the  Bolivarian  constitution  reflected  Bolivar's 
distrust  of  the  privileged  elite  that  inherited  Upper  (Alto)  Peru  from 
Spain.  Bolivar  feared  that  rival  elite  factions  would  wage  battle 
against  each  other  for  control  over  the  new  nation  and  became  con- 
vinced that  the  best  way  to  prevent  instability  and  chaos  was  to 
institutionalize  a  strong,  centralized,  and  lifetime  presidency. 

In  spite  of  Bolivar's  foresight,  the  Bolivarian  constitution  did 
not  last  long  because  of  the  great  disparity  that  existed  between 
the  national  aspirations  of  the  state  and  its  effective  power  over 
Bolivia's  disparate  regions  and  population.  Between  1825  and  1880, 
Bolivian  political  life  was  dominated  by  a  series  of  quasi-military 
leaders,  known  as  caudillos,  who  had  emerged  with  the  collapse 
of  the  Spanish  Empire.  Within  the  context  of  economic  crisis,  war- 
ring caudillos,  and  a  semifeudal  social  structure,  constitutions  and 
the  national  government  became  prizes  to  be  captured  by  one  or 
another  caudillo. 

Under  the  presidency  of  General  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz  y  Cala- 
humana,  a  new  constitution  was  adopted  on  August  31 ,  1831 .  The 
new  constitution  introduced  bicameralism,  dividing  the  body  be- 
tween the  Chamber  of  Senators  (Senate)  and  the  Chamber  of 
Deputies  elected  by  proportional  representation.  Annual  sessions 
for  the  National  Congress  (hereafter,  Congress)  were  to  run  be- 
tween sixty  and  ninety  days.  Although  the  president  was  given  the 
power  to  dissolve  Congress,  the  new  constitution  abolished  the  life- 
time presidency  and  limited  the  president  to  renewable  four-year 
terms.  Despite  these  limitations,  however,  presidential  power  ac- 
tually increased  during  the  presidency  of  Santa  Cruz,  and  the  trend 
toward  greater  concentration  of  power  in  the  executive  continued 
throughout  Bolivia's  history. 

Under  the  short-lived  Peru-Bolivian  Confederation  of  1836-39, 
Santa  Cruz  promulgated  a  new  constitution  that  basically  applied 


163 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

the  principles  of  the  1831  charter  to  the  alliance  (see  Construction 
of  Bolivia:  Bolivar,  Sucre,  and  Santa  Cruz,  ch.  1).  The  end  of  the 
confederation  motivated  Santa  Cruz  to  institutionalize  the  strong 
executive  model  embodied  in  the  1831  charter.  Because  the  presi- 
dent was  given  the  power  to  dissolve  the  legislature,  Congress  was 
condemned  to  a  passive  and  submissive  role. 

For  the  next  forty-two  years,  Bolivia  was  subjected  to  the  whims 
of  caudillos  who  dictated  constitutional  charters  almost  as  regu- 
larly as  changes  of  government  occurred.  Between  1839  and  1880, 
six  constitutions  were  approved  by  the  legislative  power.  Except 
for  the  constitution  of  1839,  which  limited  presidential  power,  the 
constitutions  promulgated  under  Jose  Ballivian  y  Segurola  (1843), 
Manuel  Isidoro  Belzu  Humerez  (1851),  Jose  Maria  de  Acha 
Valiente  (1861),  Mariano  Melgarejo  Valencia  (1868),  and  Agustm 
Morales  Hernandez  (1871)  further  concentrated  power  in  the  hands 
of  the  executive.  As  a  rule,  during  this  era  Congress  responded 
to  the  demands  of  whatever  caudillo  was  in  power. 

Caudillo  politics  came  to  an  end  after  the  War  of  the  Pacific 
(1879-83),  in  which  the  combined  forces  of  Bolivia  and  Peru 
suffered  a  humiliating  defeat  against  Chile's  armed  forces  (see  War 
of  the  Pacific,  ch.  1).  The  end  of  the  war  gave  rise  to  a  new  min- 
ing elite  oriented  to  laissez-faire  capitalism.  Aided  by  the  failure 
of  Bolivia's  armed  forces  in  the  war  effort,  this  new  elite  was  able 
to  design  a  new  civilian  regime  of  "order  and  progress." 

In  1880  Bolivia's  most  durable  constitution  was  approved;  it  was 
to  remain  in  effect  for  the  next  fifty-eight  years.  Under  this  consti- 
tution, bicameralism  was  fully  adopted,  and  the  legislative  power 
became  an  important  arena  for  political  debate.  During  this  period, 
Bolivia  achieved  a  functioning  constitutional  order  complete  with 
political  parties,  interest  groups,  and  an  active  legislature.  The  coun- 
try was  also  a  prime  example  of  a  formal  democracy  with  legally 
limited  participation.  Literacy  and  property  requirements  were  still 
enforced  to  exclude  the  Indian  population  and  the  urban  working 
class  from  politics.  Political  life  was  reserved  for  the  privileged  and 
a  minuscule  upper  class. 

The  basic  premises  of  representative  democracy  introduced  in 
1880  still  prevailed  in  1989.  Specifically,  congressional  oversight 
prerogatives  over  executive  behavior  were  introduced  by  law  in 
1884  when  Bolivia  emerged  from  the  War  of  the  Pacific.  The  Law 
Governing  Trials  of  Responsibilities  was  to  become  an  integral  part 
of  Bolivia's  restricted  democracy. 

The  era  of  political  stability,  which  paralleled  the  integration  of 
Bolivia  into  the  world  economy  through  the  export  of  tin,  ceased 
with  the  end  of  the  tin-export  boom  and  the  overthrow  of  President 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


Daniel  Salamanca  Urey  (1931-34).  One  of  the  legacies  of  this  period 
was  an  extremely  stratified  pattern  of  social  relations  that  was  to 
affect  Bolivia's  political  structure.  In  particular,  the  middle  class 
became  dependent  on  the  state  for  employment  as  the  upper  class 
monopolized  hard  sources  of  wealth.  As  the  economy  plummeted, 
competition  for  scarce  jobs  increased.  The  result  was  a  discontented 
and  jobless  middle  class.  In  this  context,  political  conflict  became 
a  struggle  between  factions  led  by  elite  leaders  and  middle-class 
followers. 

The  economic  crisis  of  the  1930s  and  the  disastrous  Chaco  War 
(1932-35)  exacerbated  social  tensions  (see  The  Chaco  War,  ch.  1). 
The  effects  of  the  war  would  in  turn  have  a  dramatic  effect  on  Boliv- 
ian political  life  and  its  institutions.  Between  1935  and  1952,  middle- 
class  reformist  efforts  converged  into  populist  movements  led  by 
both  military  officers  and  middle-class  civilian  intellectuals  (see 
Prelude  to  Revolution,  1935-52,  ch.  1).  Under  Colonel  German 
Busch  Becerra  (1937-39),  a  constituent  assembly  approved  reforms 
in  1938  that  were  to  have  a  lasting  and  profound  impact  on  Boliv- 
ian society.  Of  greatest  significance  were  changes  that  altered  the 
pattern  of  relations  between  state  and  society.  According  to  its  pro- 
visions, human  rights  outweighed  property  rights,  the  national  in- 
terest in  the  subsoil  and  its  riches  predominated,  the  state  had  a 
right  to  intervene  in  economic  life  and  to  regulate  commerce,  work- 
ers could  organize  and  bargain  collectively,  and  educational  facil- 
ities for  all  children  were  mandated.  The  labor  provision  helped 
establish  the  basis  for  political  parties  by  allowing  the  formation 
of  miners'  and  peasants'  unions  that  eventually  played  central  roles 
in  the  1952  Revolution. 

Bolivia's  constitution  was  again  reformed  in  1944  during  the 
presidency  of  Colonel  Gualberto  Villarroel  Lopez  (1943-46), 
another  populist  reformer.  The  principal  changes  included  suffrage 
rights  for  women,  but  only  in  municipal  elections,  and  the  estab- 
lishment of  presidential  and  vice  presidential  terms  of  six  years 
without  immediate  reelection.  Reforms  undertaken  by  military- 
populist  governments,  however,  were  partially  rolled  back  follow- 
ing the  overthrow  and  assassination  of  Villarroel  in  1946.  In  1947 
a  new  constitution  reduced  the  presidential  term  to  four  years  and 
increased  the  powers  of  the  Senate. 

In  retrospect,  it  is  clear  that  the  post-Chaco  War  reformist  efforts 
increased  the  role  of  the  state,  especially  in  terms  of  redressing  social 
and  economic  grievances.  The  constitutions  of  this  period  reflected 
the  rise  of  movements  and  groups  that  were  to  dominate  Bolivian 
politics  for  the  next  forty  years.  For  example,  the  Nationalist  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario — 


165 


166 


I 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

MNR)  espoused  a  broad  multiclass  alliance  of  workers,  peasants, 
and  middle-class  elements  to  do  battle  with  the  antinational  forces 
of  the  mining  oligarchy  and  its  foreign  allies.  It  went  on  to  con- 
duct the  1952  Revolution,  and  in  1985  the  MNR  was  back  in  power 
with  Paz  Estenssoro,  its  founder  and  leader,  as  president.  Although 
the  1952  Revolution  fundamentally  transformed  Bolivian  society, 
a  new  political  order  was  never  fully  implemented.  Between  1952 
and  1956,  factions  of  the  MNR  debated  alternative  and  novel  modes 
of  political  organization,  including  proposals  to  implement  a  work- 
ers' assembly.  By  1956,  however,  the  1947  constitution  had  been 
ratified.  Apart  from  a  powerful  labor  movement,  organized  as  the 
Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Central  Obrera  Boliviana — COB),  the 
MNR  failed  to  create  new  institutions  capable  of  channeling  and 
controlling  the  demands  of  the  groups  mobilized  by  the  1952  Revo- 
lution (see  The  Unfinished  Revolution,  ch.  1). 

The  1961  constitution  institutionalized  the  gains  of  the  1952 
Revolution  by  adopting  universal  suffrage,  the  nationalization  of 
the  mines,  and  agrarian  reform.  Factional  disputes  within  the 
MNR,  rooted  in  demands  for  access  to  state  employment,  under- 
mined the  party's  capacity  to  carry  out  further  reforms.  In  fact, 
the  1961  constitution  served  mainly  the  interests  of  Paz  Estens- 
soro's  faction  of  the  MNR  by  providing  for  his  reelection  in  1964. 

The  overthrow  of  the  MNR  by  General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno 
(president,  1964-65;  copresident,  May  1965-January  1966;  and 
president,  1966-69)  in  1964  initiated  the  contemporary  era  in  Boliv- 
ian constitutional  development  (see  The  Presidency  of  Barrientos, 
ch.  1).  After  calling  elections  in  1966  and  invoking  the  1947  con- 
stitution, Barrientos  attempted  to  force  through  Congress  a  new 
corporatist  charter.  Because  he  sought  democratic  legitimacy, 
however,  he  was  forced  to  give  up  his  original  project  in  favor  of 
a  constitution  rooted  firmly  in  the  liberal  democratic  tradition  that 
had  inspired  the  authors  of  the  1880  charter. 

Under  the  terms  of  the  Constitution  of  1967,  Bolivia  is  a  uni- 
tary republic  that  retains  a  democratic  and  representative  democ- 
racy. Article  2  stipulates  that  sovereignty  resides  in  the  people,  that 
it  is  inalienable,  and  that  its  exercise  is  delegated  to  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judicial  powers.  The  functions  of  the  public  power — 
executive,  legislative,  and  judicial — cannot  be  united  in  a  single 
branch  of  government.  Although  the  Constitution  of  1967  recog- 
nizes Roman  Catholicism  as  the  official  state  religion,  it  also  guaran- 
tees to  all  other  faiths  the  right  to  worship  publicly.  In  theory,  the 
people  govern  through  their  representatives  and  through  other 
authorities  established  by  law.  The  Constitution  of  1967  became 
known  to  most  Bolivians  only  in  the  1980s  because,  for  all  practical 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


purposes,  it  was  in  effect  only  until  1969  when  a  coup  by  General 
Alfredo  Ovando  Candfa  (copresident,  May  1965-January  1966, 
and  president,  January- August  1966  and  1969-70)  overthrew  the 
civilian  regime.  Between  then  and  1979,  the  Constitution  of  1967 
was  given  only  lip  service  by  the  military  rulers  who  governed 
Bolivia. 

Between  1978  and  1989,  four  general  elections  were  held,  and 
Bolivia  enjoyed  a  stable,  elected,  civilian  democratic  government 
under  the  terms  of  the  Constitution  of  1967.  Nevertheless,  although 
the  Constitution  of  1967  had  continued  the  strong  executive  tradi- 
tion, the  political  system  had  not  yet  developed  strong  party  or- 
ganizations capable  of  establishing  viable  and  long-term  ruling 
coalitions. 

Governmental  Structure 
The  Executive 

Executive  power  resides  in  the  president  of  the  republic  and  his 
ministers  of  state.  The  ministers  of  state  conduct  the  day-to-day 
business  of  public  administration.  In  1989  the  Council  of  Ministers 
included  sixteen  ministries  (see  fig.  11).  In  addition  to  the  Coun- 
cil of  Ministers,  the  president  headed  the  National  Economic  and 
Planning  Council  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Economfa  y  Planificacion — 
Coneplan),  the  National  Council  for  Political  and  Social  Affairs 
(Consejo  Nacional  Politico  y  Social — Conapol),  and  the  National 
Security  Council  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Seguridad — Conase). 

The  president  and  vice  president  are  chosen  through  direct  elec- 
tions to  a  four-year  term.  To  win  an  election,  a  candidate  must 
secure  a  majority  of  the  popular  vote.  If  a  majority  is  not  achieved, 
Congress  selects  the  next  president  from  among  the  top  three  can- 
didates. This  reliance  on  Congress,  rather  than  on  a  second  round 
of  elections,  has  contributed  greatly  to  the  instability  of  democrat- 
ically elected  executives.  Because  of  a  recurring  executive-legislative 
split,  elections  produced  governments  that  had  only  formal  power. 
Until  1985  real  power,  or  the  effective  capacity  to  rule,  had  eluded 
democratically  elected  presidents. 

Under  the  Constitution,  reelection  of  the  incumbent  is  not  per- 
mitted; however,  after  four  years  the  previous  president  may  again 
run  for  office.  Similarly,  an  incumbent  vice  president  may  not  run 
for  president  until  four  years  after  the  end  of  his  term.  In  1985, 
however,  a  pact  between  the  major  political  parties  allowed  Vice 
President  Jaime  Paz  Zamora  to  run  for  the  presidency. 

To  become  president,  a  person  must  be  at  least  thirty- five  years 
of  age,  literate,  a  registered  voter,  and  the  nominee  of  a  political 


169 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


PRESIDENT 


EXECUTIVE 
BRANCH 


NATIONAL 
ECONOMICS 
AND 
PLANNING 
COUNCIL 
(Coneplan)1 


NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
COUNCIL 
(Conase)3 


NATIONAL 
COUNCIL  FOR 

POLITICAL 
AND  SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS 
(Conapol)  2 


VICE 
PRESIDENT 


COUNCIL  OF 
MINISTERS 


AGRICULTURE, 
CAMPESINO  AFFAIRS,  AND 
LIVESTOCK  AFFAIRS 


EDUCATION  AND  CULTURE 


ENERGY  AND 
HYDROCARBONS 


FINANCE 


FOREIGN  AFFAIRS 
AND  WORSHIP 


HOUSING  AND 
URBAN  AFFAIRS 


TRANSPORT  AND 
COMMUNICATIONS 


SECRETARY  GENERAL 
OF  THE  PRESIDENCY 


LEGISLATIVE 
BRANCH 


JUDICIAL 
BRANCH 


NATIONAL 
CONGRESS 


SUPREME 
COURT  OF 
JUSTICE 


SENATE 


CHAMBER 

OF 
DEPUTIES 


SUPERIOR 
DISTRICT 
COURTS  OF 
JUSTICE 


LOWER 
COURTS 


INDUSTRY,  COMMERCE, 
AND  TOURISM 


COMPTROLLER 
GENERAL 


NATIONAL  DEFENSE 


INTERIOR,  MIGRATION, 
AND  JUSTICE 


DECENTRALIZED 
AND  AUTONOMOUS 
ENTERPRISES 


LABOR  AND  LABOR 
DEVELOPMENT 


MINING  AND  METALLURGY 


PLANNING  AND 
COORDINATION 


SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND 
PUBLIC  HEALTH 


WITHOUT  PORTFOLIO 


Coneplan  --  Consejo  Nacional  de  Economia  y  Planificacion. 


2  Conapol  --  Consejo  Nacional  Politico  y  Social. 

3  Conase  --  Consejo  Nacional  de  Seguridad. 


Figure  11.  Governmental  System,  1989 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


party.  Members  of  the  armed  forces  on  active  duty,  Roman  Cath- 
olic clergy,  and  ministers  of  other  religions  may  not  run  for  office. 
Blood  relatives  and  relatives  to  the  second  degree  by  affinity  of  the 
incumbent  president  and  vice  president  are  ineligible  to  run  for 
the  presidency.  Incumbent  ministers  of  state  who  seek  the  execu- 
tive office  must  resign  at  least  six  months  before  election  day. 

By  tradition  and  constitutional  law,  the  president  is  a  strong  ex- 
ecutive. Conducting  foreign  relations,  making  economic  policy, 
enforcing  and  regulating  laws,  negotiating  treaties  and  ratifying 
them  after  prior  approval  by  Congress,  appointing  officials,  com- 
manding the  armed  forces,  and  preserving  and  defending  the  public 
order  are  all  prerogatives  guaranteed  the  chief  executive  under  the 
Constitution  of  1967.  In  emergency  situations,  such  as  internal  tur- 
moil or  international  war,  the  president  has  the  power  to  call  a  state 
of  siege. 

The  power  of  appointment  enables  the  president  to  exercise  con- 
trol over  the  large  number  of  public  servants  at  all  levels  of  govern- 
ment. The  president  appoints  the  ministers  of  state,  members  of 
the  bureaucracy,  and  prefectos  (prefects)  of  departamentos  (depart- 
ments). From  lists  submitted  by  the  Senate,  the  president  appoints 
the  comptroller  general,  the  attorney  general,  the  national  superin- 
tendent of  banks,  and  the  heads  of  state  enterprises.  As  captain 
general  of  the  armed  forces,  the  president  has  the  power  to  appoint 
the  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  and  the  commanders 
of  the  navy,  army,  air  force,  and  public  safety. 

The  executive  branch  also  included  a  number  of  decentralized 
institutions  and  autonomous  enterprises,  such  as  the  Social  Secu- 
rity Institute  (Colegio  Nacional  de  Seguridad  Social — CNSS),  the 
Mining  Corporation  of  Bolivia  (Corporacion  Minera  de  Bolivia — 
Comibol),  the  Bolivian  State  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Yacimientos 
Petroliferos  Fiscales  Bolivianos — YPFB),  the  National  Railroad 
Enterprise  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Ferrocarriles — Enfe),  and  the  Na- 
tional Telecommunications  Enterprise  (Empresa  Nacional  de  Tele- 
comunicaciones — Entel).  The  state  also  owned  and  operated  Lloyd 
Bolivian  Airline  (Lloyd  Aereo  Boliviano — LAB;  see  Transporta- 
tion, ch.  3). 

One  of  the  largest  state  enterprises,  the  Bolivian  Development 
Corporation  (Corporacion  Boliviana  de  Fomento — CBF),  grouped 
a  number  of  smaller  industries  ranging  from  dairy  products  to 
matches.  As  a  result  of  a  decentralization  program,  control  over 
the  CBF  was  passed  on  to  regional  development  corporations  in 
1985.  These  were  in  turn  given  the  task  of  selling  enterprises  to 
the  private  sector  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3). 


171 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


The  dependent  nature  of  Bolivia's  middle  class  and  the  lack  of 
a  broad  economic  base  often  resulted  in  state  bureaucracies'  being 
used  for  political  gain.  Because  of  the  small  size  of  private  indus- 
try, the  middle  class  coveted  positions  in  the  state  bureaucracy. 
As  a  result,  competition  for  a  limited  number  of  bureaucratic  po- 
sitions frequently  engendered  political  conflict.  Government  re- 
mained a  prized  commodity  struggled  over  by  factions  made  up 
of  leaders  drawn  from  the  elite  and  ambitious  personal  followers 
drawn  from  the  middle  class. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  the  state  had  become  a  large  but  extremely 
weak  apparatus.  Approximately  220,000  public  employees  bloated 
the  bureaucracy,  and  the  prevalence  of  patronage  prevented  the 
dismissal  of  inefficient  employees.  This  huge  payroll  seriously  in- 
flated the  public  deficit. 

Reforms  undertaken  since  1985  under  the  guise  of  the  New  Eco- 
nomic Policy  (Nueva  Polftica  Economica — NPE)  reduced  the  size 
of  the  state  sector  by  privatizing  or  decentralizing  state  enterprises. 
To  reduce  public  spending,  20,000  miners  from  Comibol  were  laid 
off  (see  Structure  of  the  Mining  Industry,  ch.  3).  Through  the  re- 
structuring of  state  enterprises,  the  government  also  fired  employees 
in  YPFB  and  other  bureaucracies.  Critics  of  the  reforms  noted, 
however,  that  workers  were  dismissed  instead  of  the  government 
officials  whose  salaries  were  responsible  for  most  of  the  increases 
in  public  spending. 

In  1989  the  Integrated  System  of  Financial  Administration  and 
Governmental  Control  (Sistema  Integrado  de  Administracion  Fi- 
nanciera  y  Control  Gubernamentales — Safco),  a  program  funded 
by  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID) 
and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  was  introduced  to  monitor  hir- 
ing and  firing  practices  and  to  reduce  corruption  in  the  public  sec- 
tor. The  program's  central  objective  was  to  make  government 
bureaucracies  efficient  administrative  entities.  Reforms  undertaken 
by  Safco  also  sought  to  reduce  the  number  of  ministries  in  order 
to  make  the  state  apparatus  leaner  and  more  manageable. 

In  early  1989,  President  Paz  Estenssoro  commanded  a  cabinet 
divided  equally  between  politicians  and  technocrats.  Old  members 
of  the  MNR  shared  responsibilities  with  managers  drawn  from  the 
private  sector.  Paz  Estenssoro 's  cabinet  was  credited  with  enforc- 
ing the  rigid  austerity  aims  of  the  NPE.  With  the  economy  creep- 
ing toward  reactivation,  the  attempt  to  reduce  the  size  of  the  public 
sector  appeared  to  have  succeeded. 

The  Legislature 

Although  Congress  generally  played  a  passive  policy-making 
role,  it  was  a  major  actor  in  national  politics.  Indeed,  Congress 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


had  elected  every  civilian  ruler  to  take  office  from  the  late  1970s 
to  1985. 

Historically,  Congress  had  been  subordinated  to  the  executive; 
the  intention  of  the  Constitution  of  1967  was  to  consolidate  a  strong 
presidential  system.  Nonetheless,  within  the  context  of  a  multiparty 
system,  the  Constitution  of  1967  provides  important  mechanisms 
that  allow  for  a  more  influential  and  active  Congress.  Congress 
has  the  right  to  pass,  abrogate,  interpret,  and  modify  all  laws.  A 
bill  must  be  passed  by  the  legislature  and  must  be  signed  by  the 
president  to  become  a  law.  Although  the  president  may  veto  a  bill, 
Congress  may  override  the  veto  with  a  two-thirds  majority  vote 
(see  table  13,  Appendix). 

The  Constitution  provides  for  a  bicameral  legislature:  a  Cham- 
ber of  Deputies  and  a  Senate.  Every  year,  beginning  on  August  6 
(Independence  Day),  Congress  meets  in  La  Paz  for  90  sessions; 
the  number  of  sessions  may  be  expanded  to  120  if  requested  by 
the  executive  or  if  favored  by  a  majority  of  members.  Congress 
may  also  meet  for  extraordinary  sessions  to  debate  specific  bills 
if  requested  by  the  executive  and  if  favored  by  a  majority  of  its 
members. 

Congress  has  twenty-two  prerogatives,  which  can  be  divided 
broadly  into  its  economic  policy,  foreign  policy,  and  political  powers. 
Congress's  principal  economic  policy  function  is  approval  of  the 
annual  budget  that  the  executive  must  submit  to  Congress  before 
the  thirtieth  session.  This  constitutional  requirement  for  approval 
has  rarely  been  respected,  however.  In  1987  and  1988,  Congress 
approved  the  budget  for  the  first  time  since  1967,  although  not 
within  the  first  thirty  sessions.  Because  budgets  often  faced  oppo- 
sition in  Congress,  governments  usually  approved  them  through 
executive  decree.  Congress  also  has  the  power  to  establish  the  mone- 
tary system  and  is  responsible,  in  theory,  for  approving  all  economic 
policy.  Development  programs,  for  example,  must  be  submitted 
to  Congress,  and  any  loans  contracted  by  the  government  must 
also  be  approved  by  the  legislature. 

Congress's  foreign  policy  prerogatives  primarily  concern  its 
power  to  approve  all  treaties,  accords,  and  international  agreements. 
Although  this  practice  was  not  always  respected  in  the  late  1980s, 
Congress  must  also  decide  whether  or  not  to  allow  foreign  troops 
to  travel  through  or  operate  in  Bolivian  territory.  Moreover,  Con- 
gress decides  when  Bolivian  troops  may  travel  abroad. 

Congress's  political  powers  include  the  naming  of  justices  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  and  members  of  the  National  Electoral 
Court,  as  well  as  the  right  to  create  new  provinces,  cantones  (cantons), 
and  municipal  districts.  One  of  its  most  important  prerogatives  is 


173 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

to  declare  amnesty  for  political  crimes.  Its  most  significant  power, 
however,  is  to  resolve  elections  in  which  the  winning  candidate  has 
not  garnered  a  majority  of  the  vote. 

Congress  possesses  wide-ranging  oversight  powers  over  execu- 
tive behavior.  A  single  senator  or  deputy  may  call  ministers  and 
other  members  of  the  executive  to  testify  through  a  procedure  known 
as  petition  de  informe  oral  (request  for  an  oral  report).  If  the  report 
is  unsatisfactory,  the  senator  or  deputy  may  convert  a  simple  re- 
quest into  an  interpellation,  which  may  be  resolved  only  through 
a  vote  of  confidence  or  a  vote  for  censure.  In  Bolivian  parliamen- 
tary tradition,  a  censured  minister  must  resign  and  be  replaced 
by  the  executive.  A  petition  de  informe  escrito  (request  for  a  written 
report)  may  also  be  sent  to  the  executive  regarding  specific  poli- 
cies, events,  and  actions.  The  Senate  or  Chamber  of  Deputies  may 
also  call  attention  to  problems  and  current  issues  through  minutas 
de  comunicacion  (minutes  of  communication). 

Congress  also  has  the  power  of  specific  indictment.  For  ajuicio 
de  responsabilidades  (malfeasance  trial)  before  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice,  a  two-thirds  majority  vote  is  required  to  indict  individuals 
accused  of  wrongdoing  while  in  office.  In  1986  Congress  indicted 
former  dictator  General  Luis  Garcia  Meza  Tejada  (1980-81);  in 
early  1989,  he  was  being  tried  in  absentia  by  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice. 

In  addition  to  shared  powers,  each  chamber  has  specific  respon- 
sibilities. The  Chamber  of  Deputies  elects  justices  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Justice  from  a  list  submitted  by  the  Senate,  approves  the 
executive's  requests  for  the  declaration  of  a  state  of  siege,  and  trans- 
mits to  the  president  of  the  republic  a  list  of  names  from  which 
the  latter  must  select  the  heads  of  social  and  economic  institutions 
in  which  the  state  participates.  The  Senate  hears  accusations  against 
members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  raised  by  the  Chamber 
of  Deputies;  submits  to  the  president  a  list  of  candidates  for  comp- 
troller general,  attorney  general,  and  superintendent  of  the  national 
banking  system;  approves  ambassadors;  and  approves  rank  pro- 
motions in  the  armed  forces  every  year. 

Elected  deputies  and  senators  enjoy  immunity  from  prosecution 
for  the  duration  of  their  term;  however,  a  two-thirds  majority  may 
retract  this  privilege  from  a  specific  legislator.  In  1969,  for  exam- 
ple, owing  to  pressure  from  President  Barrientos,  Congress  lifted 
the  immunity  from  two  deputies  who  had  initiated  a  "responsibil- 
ities trial"  against  the  president.  This  clearly  confirmed  the  primacy 
of  presidential  power. 

Deputies  are  elected  through  universal  suffrage  based  on  a  com- 
plex proportional  representation  system.  A  1986  electoral  law,  used 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


for  the  first  time  in  1989,  calls  for  the  election  of  130  deputies  (see 
table  14,  Appendix).  Bolivia  has  adopted  the  Spanish  tradition  of 
electing  suplentes  (alternates)  as  well.  Hence,  every  elected  deputy 
has  an  alternate  in  the  event  of  his  or  her  death,  resignation,  or 
disability.  Based  on  population  density  in  1980,  the  Chamber's  130 
seats  were  divided  as  follows  among  Bolivia's  nine  departments:  La 
Paz,  28;  Potosi,  19;  Cochabamba,  18;  Santa  Cruz,  17;  Chuquisaca, 
13;  Oruro,  10;  Tarija,  9;  Beni,  9;  and  Pando,  7. 

Deputies  are  elected  for  four-year  terms,  with  the  entire  mem- 
bership facing  election  every  fourth  year.  To  become  a  deputy, 
a  person  must  be  at  least  twenty-five  years  of  age,  a  Bolivian  by 
birth,  a  registered  voter,  have  no  outstanding  penal  charges,  and 
not  be  a  government  employee,  a  member  of  the  clergy,  or  a  con- 
tractor for  public  works. 

Every  legislative  year,  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  elects  a  new 
leadership.  Its  leadership  comprises  a  president,  two  vice  presidents, 
and  five  secretaries.  The  day-to-day  operations  of  the  chamber  are 
the  responsibility  of  an  oficial  mayor,  or  high  official.  Since  1982 
the  leadership  has  reflected  the  chamber's  party  composition, 
although  the  political  parties  with  the  greatest  number  of  seats  con- 
trol the  top  three  positions. 

Every  new  legislative  year  also  carries  with  it  the  reordering  of 
committee  memberships.  In  1989  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  had 
seventeen  committees  that  reflected  broadly  the  structure  of  the 
executive  cabinet.  Since  1982  the  committees,  which  have  five  mem- 
bers each,  also  have  reflected  (with  some  exceptions)  the  political 
subdivisions  of  the  chamber  as  a  whole.  Usually,  committee  chairs 
are  reserved  for  members  of  the  party  in  control  of  the  chamber, 
but  they  may  be  used  as  bargaining  tools.  Because  committee  mem- 
berships are  reorganized  each  year,  seniority  is  a  not  a  factor.  Owing 
to  the  large  number  of  political  parties  represented  in  the  lower 
chamber,  the  process  of  approving  bills  in  committee  and  in  the 
house  as  a  whole  is  a  protracted  exercise. 

The  vice  president  of  the  nation  is  president  of  the  Senate,  as 
well  as  president  of  Congress.  The  Senate  is  composed  of  twenty- 
seven  senators,  three  per  department.  The  winning  party  in  each 
department  secures  two  senators,  and  the  runner-up  controls  the 
third.  This  arrangement  ensures  minority  representation  in  the 
upper  house.  Like  the  deputies,  senators  are  elected  for  four-year 
terms.  To  become  a  senator,  one  must  be  at  least  thirty-five  years 
old,  a  Bolivian  by  birth,  a  registered  voter,  and  must  not  be  a 
government  employee,  a  member  of  the  clergy,  or  a  contractor  for 
public  works.  As  in  the  lower  chamber,  alternates  are  also  elected. 


175 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

In  August,  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  legislative  year,  the  Senate 
elects  a  president,  two  vice  presidents,  and  four  secretaries.  Be- 
cause fewer  parties  are  represented  in  this  chamber,  electing  the 
leadership  is  usually  a  rapid  and  smooth  process. 

Like  the  Chamber  of  Deputies,  the  Senate  has  seventeen  com- 
mittees, and  every  legislative  year  a  complete  membership  turnover 
takes  place.  Each  committee  must  have  five  members  drawn  from 
every  party  represented  in  the  chamber.  In  general,  bills  spend  less 
time  in  committee  in  the  Senate  (and  they  are  also  approved  more 
rapidly  by  the  whole  chamber)  than  in  the  Chamber  of  Deputies. 
This  is  largely  because  fewer  political  parties  are  represented  in 
the  Senate. 

Committees  in  both  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  and  the  Senate  are 
not  specialized  bodies,  and  attempts  were  not  made  to  secure  com- 
petent legislative  support  staff  until  the  late  1980s.  Advisers  to  the 
committees  were  selected  more  on  the  basis  of  political  affiliation 
than  on  expertise.  Committees  were  also  plagued  by  the  lack  of  an 
adequate  library  and  reference  service.  The  Senate  library,  which 
theoretically  serves  Congress,  was  woefully  inadequate.  Although 
every  session  was  recorded  on  tape,  an  efficient  congressional  record 
service  did  not  exist.  The  transcripts  of  the  1982-85  sessions,  for 
example,  did  not  become  available  until  the  late  1980s. 

A  recurring  problem  in  both  chambers  was  the  prevalence  of 
obsolete  rules  of  procedure  dating  back  to  the  1904-05  legislative 
year.  Procedural  rules  have  slowed  the  approval  of  bills  and  have 
contributed  in  large  measure  to  making  Congress's  legislative  func- 
tion obsolete. 

During  congressional  recesses,  the  Constitution  provides  for  a 
comision  de  congreso  (congressional  commission)  to  be  elected  by  the 
members  of  each  chamber.  Nine  senators  and  eighteen  deputies, 
including  the  president  of  each  chamber  and  the  vice  president  of 
the  republic,  are  elected  to  this  commission. 

The  congressional  commission  ensures  that  the  Constitution  and 
civil  rights  are  respected  while  Congress  is  not  in  session.  It  is  also 
provided  with  the  same  executive  oversight  capacity  as  Congress. 
Through  a  two- thirds  majority  vote,  the  commission  may  convoke 
an  extraordinary  session  of  Congress.  Moreover,  in  the  case  of  a 
national  emergency,  it  may  authorize  the  president,  by  a  two- thirds 
vote,  to  issue  decrees  that  carry  the  full  force  of  law.  Finally,  the 
commission  may  design  bills  to  be  submitted  to  Congress  during 
the  regular  legislative  year. 

The  Judiciary 

The  judicial  system  is  divided  into  upper  and  lower  levels  with 
effective  power  resting  in  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  The 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


Supreme  Court  of  Justice  consists  of  a  president  and  eleven  minis- 
tros  (justices)  who  serve  in  three  chambers  for  civil,  penal,  and  so- 
cial and  administrative  matters.  Justices  are  elected  for  ten-year 
terms  by  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  from  a  list  proposed  by  the 
Senate,  and  they  cannot  be  reelected.  To  become  a  justice,  a  per- 
son must  be  a  Bolivian  by  birth,  have  been  a  judge  for  ten  years, 
be  a  lawyer,  and  meet  all  the  requirements  to  become  a  senator. 

Under  the  Constitution  of  1967,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice 
has  the  power  to  determine  the  constitutionality  of  laws,  decrees, 
and  resolutions  approved  by  the  executive  and  legislative  branches 
of  government.  Moreover,  it  serves  as  the  arena  for  malfeasance 
trials  of  public  officers,  including  the  president,  vice  president,  and 
ministers  of  state,  for  crimes  committed  while  in  office. 

The  Senate  elects  members  of  the  superior  district  courts  of  justice 
from  a  list  proposed  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  It  also  elects 
members  of  a  complex  set  of  national  labor  courts.  Members  of 
the  superior  district  courts  are  elected  for  six  years,  whereas  jueces 
departido  (lower-court,  or  sectional,  judges)  and  instructores  or  jueces 
de  instruccion  (investigating  judges)  are  elected  to  four-year  terms 
but  may  be  reelected.  The  nine  superior  district  courts  hear  ap- 
peals in  both  civil  and  criminal  matters  from  decisions  rendered 
on  the  trial  level  by  the  courts  in  each  department. 

Juzgados  de  partido  (civil  and  criminal  trial  courts)  are  established 
in  departmental  capitals  and  in  towns  and  cities  throughout  Bolivia. 
The  criminal  sections  have  investigating  judges  who  investigate  and 
prepare  criminal  cases  for  trial  when  appropriate.  These  cases  are 
tried  by  sectional  judges.  Commercial  and  civil  matters  on  per- 
sonal and  property  actions  are  heard  by  the  civil  sections  of  the 
trial  courts. 

A  number  of  small  claims  courts  are  scattered  throughout  the 
country  and  are  limited  to  actions  involving  personal  and  real 
property  or  personal  actions.  Larger  claims  may  be  submitted  to 
the  same  court,  but  the  parties  have  the  right  of  appeal  to  the  sec- 
tional judge. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  judicial  system  are  the  mayors'  courts,  which 
consist  of  local  judgeships.  The  civil  jurisdiction  of  these  courts  is 
limited  to  hearing  small  claims  and,  in  the  criminal  field,  chiefly 
to  police  and  correctional  matters. 

Theoretically,  the  judiciary  is  an  autonomous  and  independent 
institution  with  far-reaching  powers.  In  reality,  the  judicial  sys- 
tem remains  highly  politicized;  its  members  often  represent  parti- 
san viewpoints  and  agendas.  Court  membership  still  reflects  political 
patronage.  As  a  result,  the  administration  of  justice  is  held  hostage 
to  the  whims  of  party  politics.  Because  members  often  also  represent 


177 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

departmental  interests,  a  national  legal  culture  has  not  been  fully 
developed. 

Owing  to  years  of  military  rule,  Bolivia's  legal  culture  has  stag- 
nated. The  closure  of  universities  in  the  1970s  resulted  in  a  declin- 
ing system  of  legal  education.  Only  in  the  late  1980s  did  the  Bolivian 
legal  system  have  access  to  developments  in  organization  and  the- 
ory that  had  taken  place  in  other  nations.  In  1989  AID  initiated 
a  program  to  overhaul  the  system  of  the  administration  of  justice. 
In  the  opinion  of  most  observers,  however,  the  near- term  prospects 
for  implementing  any  reforms  appeared  poor. 

Of  particular  concern  in  the  1980s  was  the  increasing  influence 
exercised  by  the  cocaine  industry  over  judges  and  even  justices  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  Because  of  their  low  salaries,  mem- 
bers of  the  courts  were  susceptible  to  the  offers  of  the  large  amounts 
of  money  by  narcotics  traffickers  (see  The  Criminal  Justice  Sys- 
tem, ch.  5). 

The  Electoral  System 

The  May  1989  elections  marked  the  sixth  time  that  Bolivians 
had  gone  to  the  polls  since  1978.  This  proliferation  of  elections  did 
not  make  up  for  the  twelve-year  electoral  hiatus  imposed  on  the 
country  by  successive  military  dictatorships.  Following  years  of 
authoritarian  rule,  the  Bolivian  electorate  faced  elections  without 
undergoing  a  process  of  institution-building  and  electoral  practice. 
The  result  was  a  chaotic  transition  period  that  culminated  in 
October  1982  with  the  election  of  Hernan  Siles  Zuazo  (1982-85). 

In  1978  the  National  Electoral  Court  annulled  the  first  elections 
because  of  large-scale  fraud;  as  a  result,  the  military  reintervened. 
The  1979  elections  produced  a  congressionally  mandated  one-year 
interim  government  debilitated  by  military  coups  and  countercoups. 
In  1980  a  bloody  military  coup  prevented  Congress  from  assem- 
bling to  elect  a  new  president.  In  1982  the  Congress  elected  in  1980 
was  convoked  to  choose  a  president.  Elections  were  held  again  in 
1985,  one  year  earlier  than  originally  mandated  by  Congress.  In 
May  1989,  Bolivians  cast  their  ballots  for  the  third  democratic  and 
civilian  president  of  the  1980s. 

All  Bolivian  citizens  at  least  twenty-one  years  of  age,  or  eigh- 
teen if  married,  are  guaranteed  the  right  to  vote  through  secret 
ballot  in  free  and  open  elections.  All  voters  must  register  with  neigh- 
borhood electoral  notaries  established  prior  to  an  election.  To  regis- 
ter, voters  must  present  a  cedula  de  identidad  (national  identity  card), 
a  birth  certificate,  or  a  military  service  card.  Because  voting  is  con- 
sidered a  civic  duty,  failure  to  register  or  vote  invokes  several  penal- 
ties. Only  citizens  over  seventy  may  abstain  voluntarily.  Mental 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


patients,  traitors,  convicts,  and  conscripted  soldiers  are  ineligible 
to  vote. 

The  electoral  system  comprises  the  National  Electoral  Court,  elec- 
toral judges,  electoral  notaries,  departmental  electoral  courts,  and 
electoral  juries.  The  most  important  of  these  bodies,  the  National 
Electoral  Court,  is  an  independent,  autonomous,  and  impartial  or- 
ganization charged  with  conducting  the  electoral  process.  The  court 
may  recognize  or  deny  registration  to  political  parties,  fronts,  or 
coalitions.  Sixty  days  before  elections,  it  approves  a  single  multi- 
color ballot  with  symbols  of  parties  or  pictures  of  candidates  run- 
ning for  office.  The  court  also  counts  the  ballots  in  public  and 
investigates  all  charges  of  fraud.  Once  the  electoral  results  have 
been  certified  by  the  National  Electoral  Court,  it  must  provide 
credentials  accrediting  elected  deputies  and  senators,  as  well  as  the 
president  and  vice  president.  The  court  must  also  present  an  an- 
nual report  of  its  activities  to  Congress. 

The  National  Electoral  Court  consists  of  six  members  elected 
by  Congress,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  the  president  of  the 
republic,  and  the  political  parties  with  the  highest  number  of  votes 
in  the  previous  election.  Members  serve  four  years  and  are  eligi- 
ble for  reelection. 

Electoral  judges  are  seated  in  the  capitals  of  each  department 
or  province.  They  hear  appeals  by  notaries  regarding  admission 
or  exclusion  of  inscriptions  in  the  registry,  try  electoral  notaries 
and  other  persons  for  crimes  committed  during  the  electoral  process, 
hear  charges  of  fraud  and  other  voting  irregularities,  and  annul 
false  electoral  cards. 

Electoral  notaries  must  be  present  at  every  electoral  station  in 
the  country.  Their  principal  task  is  to  organize  and  provide  cus- 
tody for  the  electoral  registry.  They  are  also  empowered  to  register 
citizens  to  vote  and  to  keep  an  accurate  registry  of  voters. 

The  1986  electoral  law  establishes  ten  departmental  electoral 
courts,  including  one  in  each  department  capital  and  two  in  La 
Paz.  Each  court  comprises  six  members,  three  of  whom  are  named 
by  Congress  and  three  by  the  superior  district  courts,  president 
of  the  republic,  and  political  parties.  The  departmental  electoral 
courts  have  the  power  to  name  all  judges  and  notaries  and  to  re- 
move them  if  charges  of  corruption  or  inefficiency  brought  against 
them  by  parties  are  confirmed.  They  also  are  empowered  to  count 
ballots  in  public  for  the  president,  vice  president,  senators,  and 
deputies.  Each  electoral  jury  is  composed  of  five  citizens  who  moni- 
tor voting  at  the  polling  place.  They  are  chosen  randomly  from 
the  lot  of  voters  at  each  voting  table;  service  is  compulsory. 


179 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Constitution  establishes  that  only  political  parties  that  are 
duly  registered  with  the  National  Electoral  Court  may  present  can- 
didates for  office.  Although  labor  unions,  entrepreneurial  associa- 
tions, and  regional  civic  committees  have  a  very  large  voice  in  policy 
making,  by  law  they  must  work  through  political  parties.  The  Con- 
stitution and  the  electoral  law  provide  for  a  proportional  represen- 
tation system  to  ensure  the  representation  of  minority  parties. 

The  proliferation  of  tiny  parties,  alliances,  and  electoral  fronts 
in  the  late  1970s  led  to  the  enactment  of  Article  206  of  the  1980 
electoral  law.  This  article  states  that  parties,  alliances,  or  coalitions 
that  do  not  achieve  50,000  votes  must  repay  to  the  national  trea- 
sury the  costs  of  printing  the  ballot.  Repayment  must  be  made  three 
days  after  the  final  ballot  has  been  counted;  a  jail  term  awaits  party 
chiefs  who  fail  to  pay. 

In  1986  amendments  to  the  1980  electoral  law  sought  to  estab- 
lish further  limits  on  the  proliferation  of  parties  by  establishing 
restrictions  for  party  registration.  The  specific  objective  of  these 
reforms  was  to  limit  the  access  of  minuscule  parties  to  Congress 
in  order  to  establish  a  viable  two-  to  three-party  system. 

The  most  significant  amendment  to  the  electoral  law  governed 
registration  requirements.  Beginning  in  1986,  citizens  had  to  present 
either  a  national  identity  card  or  a  military  service  card  to  register 
to  vote.  Critics  noted  that  this  reform  would  legally  exclude  60  per- 
cent of  the  peasantry  that  lacked  either  document.  Indeed,  fraud 
generally  occurred  in  the  countryside  where  the  population  lacked 
these  documents.  The  law  was  amended  in  December  1988, 
however,  to  allow  birth  certificates  as  valid  documents  for  regis- 
tration. Universal  suffrage  was  one  of  the  principal  gains  of  the 
1952  Revolution;  thus,  attempts  to  restrict  voting  eligibility  have 
been  closely  scrutinized. 

Since  elections  returned  to  Bolivia  in  1978,  only  two  have  been 
relatively  honest.  In  1978  the  elections  were  annulled  following  mas- 
sive fraud  on  the  part  of  the  military- sponsored  candidate.  The  1979 
elections  were  much  cleaner,  but  charges  of  fraud  still  surfaced.  Most 
observers  agreed  that  the  1980  elections  were  clean,  but  because  of 
a  military  coup,  the  outcome  was  postponed  until  1982.  Owing  to 
electoral  reforms,  the  1985  general  elections  were  by  far  the  fairest 
ever  held  in  Bolivia.  Nonetheless,  because  elections  are  inherendy 
political,  accusations  of  fraud  are  a  permanent  feature  of  the  elec- 
toral system.  Early  in  the  campaign  for  the  1989  elections,  charges 
of  fraud  were  already  being  leveled  against  the  ruling  MNR. 

Departmental  and  Local  Government 

In  1989  Bolivia  was  divided  into  nine  departments,  which  were 
subdivided  into  ninety-four  provinces.  Provinces,  in  turn,  were 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


divided  into  sections  and  sections  into  cantons.  Following  the  French 
system  of  governance,  each  department  is  governed  by  a  prefect, 
who  is  appointed  by  the  president  for  a  four-year  term.  Prefects 
hold  overall  authority  in  military,  fiscal,  and  administrative  mat- 
ters, working  in  each  substantive  area  under  the  supervision  of  the 
appropriate  minister.  Centralized  control  is  ensured  by  the  presi- 
dent's appointment  of  subprefects,  officials  vested  with  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  provinces.  Cantons  are  administered  by  corregidores 
(administrative  officials  named  after  the  Spanish  colonial  officials), 
who  are  appointed  by  the  prefect  of  their  department.  Serving  under 
the  corregidores  are  agentes  (agents)  who  have  quasi-judicial  and  quasi- 
executive  functions. 

The  president's  power  of  appointment  created  a  system  of  pa- 
tronage that  reached  down  into  the  smallest  administrative  unit. 
Especially  under  military  governments,  the  office  of  the  prefect  was 
key  to  obtaining  regional  loyalty.  Under  democratic  rule,  local 
government  reflected  the  pattern  of  job  struggle  present  in  the  na- 
tional bureaucracy. 

In  some  areas,  ayllus  (see  Glossary)  prevailed  as  the  principal 
local  government.  Years  of  military  rule  did  not  disrupt  these  com- 
munal structures.  Each  community  selected  jilacatas  or  malleus  to 
head  the  ayllus,  a  practice  that  reflected  the  prevalence  of  a  politi- 
cal system  outside  the  structures  of  the  Bolivian  state.  As  a  result, 
the  Bolivian  campesino  was  marginal  to  the  political  process. 

The  principal  local  structure  was  the  municipal  government  sys- 
tem. Historically,  municipal  governments  in  Bolivia  proved  sus- 
ceptible to  political  instability;  democratic  procedures  at  the  local 
level  were  suspended  from  the  time  of  the  Chaco  War  to  1985,  and 
municipal  elections  were  not  held  after  1948.  During  the  military 
period,  mayors  of  cities  were  appointed  by  the  president,  a  prac- 
tice that  prevented  the  development  of  local  and  autonomous 
governmental  structures.  Instead,  municipal  governments  through- 
out Bolivia  became  part  of  the  patronage  distributed  among  re- 
tainers by  de  facto  rulers. 

For  the  first  time  since  1948,  municipal  elections  were  held  in 
1985.  They  were  also  held  in  December  1987  and  were  scheduled 
again  for  December  1989.  In  large  measure,  the  reemergence  of 
municipal  elections  has  been  very  healthy  for  the  development  and 
consolidation  of  democracy  in  Bolivia.  However,  many  of  the  same 
problems  that  plagued  democracy  at  the  national  level  have  emerged 
in  municipal  elections. 

Municipal  governments  are  bound  by  the  terms  of  the  Constitu- 
tion and  the  Organic  Law  of  Municipalities,  a  125-article  law  ap- 
proved in  January  1985.  Theoretically,  the  municipal  governments 


181 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

are  autonomous.  Autonomy  refers  primarily  to  the  direct  and  free 
election  of  municipal  authorities,  the  power  to  extract  and  invest 
resources,  and  the  power  to  implement  plans  and  projects. 

Four  types  of  municipal  government  exist  in  Bolivia.  In  the  cap- 
itals of  the  departments,  municipal  governments  function  under 
the  direction  of  an  alcalde  (mayor),  who  should  be  subject  to  a 
municipal  council,  which  consists  of  twelve  members.  The  capi- 
tals of  the  provinces  also  function  under  the  direction  of  a  mayor, 
as  well  as  a  six-member  municipal  junta,  or  board.  Provincial  sec- 
tions are  governed  by  a  four-member  municipal  junta  and  a  mayor. 
In  the  cantons,  municipal  governments  function  under  the  direc- 
tion of  municipal  agents. 

Municipal  governments  have  executive,  judicial,  comptroller, 
and  legislative  functions  that  reside  mainly  in  the  municipal  coun- 
cil. Theoretically,  the  council  governs  at  the  local  level,  and  the 
mayor  is  subordinate  to  its  mandates.  Mayors  are  elected  by  the 
council  and  are  accountable  to  its  members,  who  may  impeach 
them.  But  the  mayor  is  a  local  executive  who  commands  a  great 
deal  of  influence  and  can  direct  the  activities  of  the  council. 

Mayors  and  council  members  are  elected  in  each  department 
and  province  for  two-year  terms.  To  become  a  council  member 
or  mayor,  a  person  must  be  a  citizen  in  possession  of  all  rights, 
be  twenty-one  years  of  age  (or  eighteen  if  married),  have  run  on 
a  party  slate,  and  be  a  resident  of  the  district  that  the  candidate 
seeks  to  represent.  Members  of  the  clergy,  state  employees,  and 
active-duty  military  service  personnel  may  not  run  for  office. 

Because  councils  are  elected  on  the  basis  of  proportional  represen- 
tation, minority  parties  have  a  significant  degree  of  influence.  Spe- 
cifically, if  a  candidate  for  mayor  does  not  receive  a  majority  of 
the  vote,  the  councils  must  elect  the  next  mayor  from  the  top  three 
contenders.  The  experience  of  the  December  1987  elections  in  the 
La  Paz  mayoral  race  revealed  that  standoffs  in  the  councils  could 
cause  a  mayoral  election  to  be  held  hostage  to  the  whims  of  in- 
dividual council  members.  Several  proposals  for  reforming  the  elec- 
toral laws  affecting  municipal  government  have  been  debated  in 
Congress;  however,  it  appeared  unlikely  in  early  1989  that  they 
would  be  approved  in  the  near  future. 

Political  Dynamics 

The  Legacy  of  the  1952  Revolution 

In  1989  Bolivia  celebrated  seven  consecutive  years  of  civilian  rule. 
Considering  the  nation's  history  of  political  instability  and  turmoil, 
the  longevity  of  the  current  democratic  period  marked  a  significant 


182 


Perez  Velasquez  Street,  La  Paz 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 

achievement.  Clearly,  democracy  did  not  come  easily  to  Bolivia; 
only  when  other  alternatives  were  exhausted  did  the  country's  po- 
litical leaders  accept  representative  government. 

Between  1978  and  1982,  seven  military  and  two  weak  civilian 
governments  ruled  the  country.  Coups  and  countercoups  charac- 
terized one  of  the  darkest  and  most  unstable  periods  in  Bolivian 
history.  The  unsolved  dilemmas  of  the  MNR-led  revolution,  wors- 
ened by  decades  of  corrupt  military  dictatorships,  accounted  for 
Bolivia's  convoluted  transition  to  democracy. 

The  1952  Revolution  sparked  the  transformation  of  Bolivia  and 
initiated  a  process  of  state-led  development  that  envisioned  a  har- 
monious pattern  of  capitalism  and  populist  redistribution.  State 
capitalism,  however,  proved  to  be  more  compatible  with  exclusion- 
ary, military-based  rule  than  with  the  populist  politics  of  the  MNR. 
In  fact,  the  inability  of  the  MNR  to  control  the  demands  for  greater 
redistribution  by  organized  labor,  led  by  the  COB,  culminated  in 
the  MNR's  overthrow  in  1964. 

Conflict  between  labor  and  the  state  deepened  under  military 
rule.  With  the  exception  of  the  Juan  Jose  Torres  Gonzalez  period 
(1970-71),  military  governments  repressed  organized  labor  to  im- 
plement state  capitalist  development.  As  a  result,  over  the  next  two 
decades  class  conflict  was  exacerbated.  State  capitalism  (see  Glos- 
sary) had  been  incapable  of  improving  the  living  standards  of  the 


183 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

majority  of  Bolivians,  and  the  economy  was  still  heavily  depen- 
dent on  a  single  export  commodity.  Under  the  government  of 
General  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez  (1971-78),  the  health  of  the  econ- 
omy rested  on  excessive  foreign  borrowing. 

A  second  objective  of  the  revolution  had  been  to  institutionalize 
a  political  model  that  could  both  incorporate  the  masses  mobilized 
by  the  MNR  and  provide  access  to  state  jobs  for  the  middle  class. 
Although  it  attempted  to  emulate  Mexico's  Institutional  Revolu- 
tionary Party  (Partido  Revolucionario  Institucional — PRI),  the 
MNR  failed  to  subordinate  labor,  military,  and  peasant  groups 
to  the  party  structure.  Instead,  the  party  was  held  hostage  to  the 
interests  of  factional  leaders  who  eventually  conspired  with  the  mili- 
tary to  overthrow  Paz  Estenssoro  and  the  MNR.  The  military  made 
several  attempts  to  institutionalize  a  new  political  order,  includ- 
ing a  Soviet-like  Popular  Assembly  (Asamblea  Popular)  in  June 
1970  and  a  corporatist  legislature  in  1974.  Like  the  MNR,  however, 
the  military  also  failed  to  create  an  alternative  model  of  politics. 

In  short,  the  failure  of  the  revolution  and  the  subsequent  mili- 
tary regimes  to  accomplish  political  and  economic  objectives  led 
to  the  deepening  of  cleavages  that  sparked  the  revolution  in  the 
first  place.  By  the  late  1970s,  Bolivia  was  a  country  torn  apart  by 
regional,  ethnic,  class,  economic,  and  political  divisions.  This  was 
the  context  in  which  the  transition  to  democracy  was  to  take  place. 

The  Tortuous  Transition  to  Democracy 

The  succession  of  elections  and  coups  that  followed  the  military's 
withdrawal  from  politics  in  1978  revealed  the  deterioration  of  Boliv- 
ian institutional  life  (see  table  15,  Appendix).  In  the  absence  of 
military  leadership  for  the  process  of  transition,  parties,  factions, 
and  other  groups  searched  for  a  formula  to  carry  them  to  the 
presidency.  Nearly  seventy  political  parties  registered  for  the  general 
elections  in  1978,  including  at  least  thirty  MNR  factions. 

In  this  context,  it  became  evident  that  elections  would  not  solve 
the  structural  problems  facing  Bolivia.  In  1979,  1980,  and  1985, 
the  winning  party  could  only  muster  a  plurality  of  votes  during 
the  elections.  As  a  result,  the  legislature  became  the  focal  point 
of  political  activity  as  parties  and  tiny  factions  maneuvered  to  in- 
fluence the  final  outcome  of  the  general  elections.  For  example, 
in  1980  Congress  elected  as  president  Hernan  Siles  Zuazo,  who 
had  won  a  plurality  of  votes.  Simultaneously,  factions  of  the  mili- 
tary linked  to  narcotics  and  other  illicit  activities  were  unwilling 
to  surrender  control  of  the  state  to  civilian  politicians  who  threat- 
ened to  investigate  charges  of  human  rights  violations  and  corrup- 
tion during  the  Banzer  years. 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


The  July  17,  1980,  coup  by  General  Luis  Garcia  Meza  Tejada 
represented  a  two-year  interruption  of  the  transition  to  democracy. 
Garcia  Meza's  military  regime  was  one  of  the  most  corrupt  in  Boliv- 
ian history;  Garcia  Meza  and  his  collaborators  maintained  close 
links  with  cocaine  traffickers  and  neofascist  terrorists.  Faced  with 
international  isolation  and  repudiation  from  nearly  every  political 
and  social  group,  Garcia  Meza  and  the  generals  that  succeeded 
him  ruled  with  brute  force.  By  1982  disputes  among  rival  officers 
and  pressure  from  abroad,  political  parties,  the  private  sector,  and 
labor  eventually  led  to  the  convocation  of  Congress  that  had  been 
elected  in  1980. 

Siles  Zuazo  of  the  Democratic  and  Popular  Unity  (Unidad  Derao- 
cratica  y  Popular — UDP)  coalition,  was  again  elected  president  by 
Congress  on  October  10,  1982.  The  UDP  was  an  amorphous  en- 
tity that  grouped  Siles  Zuazo 's  own  Nationalist  Revolutionary 
Movement  of  the  Left  (Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario 
de  Izquierda — MNRI),  the  Bolivian  Communist  Party  (Partido 
Comunista  Boliviano — PCB),  and  the  relatively  young  Movement 
of  the  Revolutionary  Left  (Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolu- 
cionaria — MIR).  Having  been  denied  the  presidency  in  three  con- 
secutive elections,  Siles  Zuazo 's  rise  to  power  was  an  auspicious 
occasion.  He  enjoyed  overwhelming  popular  support  and  appeared 
to  have  a  mandate  to  implement  populist  reforms.  The  military 
and  its  civilian  allies  were  completely  discredited  and  were  no  longer 
a  threat  or  an  alternative  to  rule  Bolivia. 

By  1982,  however,  Bolivia  faced  the  most  severe  economic  and 
political  crisis  of  the  preceding  three  decades.  The  economy  was 
beset  by  chronic  balance  of  payments  and  fiscal  deficits.  The  most 
immediate  manifestation  of  the  crisis  was  an  inability  to  service 
payments  on  its  foreign  debt  of  nearly  US$3  billion  (see  Growth 
and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3).  By  1982  the  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  had  dropped  by  nearly  10  percent. 
Siles  Zuazo  thus  faced  the  dilemma  of  trying  to  democratize  the 
country  in  the  context  of  economic  scarcity  and  crisis.  The  UDP 
promised  to  enact  a  more  equitable  development  program  that 
would  address  labor's  demands  for  higher  wages  and  other  benefits. 
As  the  crisis  deepened,  however,  labor  became  increasingly  dis- 
affected. 

The  economic  plight  exacerbated  tensions  between  populist  and 
antipopulist  wings  of  the  MNR  and  other  political  parties  that  had 
been  latent  since  the  revolution.  Because  the  UDP  controlled  only 
the  executive,  political  conflict  was  heightened.  Congress  remained 
firmly  in  control  of  a  de  facto  alliance  between  Paz  Estenssoro's 
MNR  (the  faction  that  retained  the  party's  name)  and  Banzer's 


185 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Nationalist  Democratic  Action  (Accion  Democratica  Nacionalista — 
ADN). 

Conflict  between  branches  of  government  had  been  manifest  since 
the  beginning  of  the  transition  process.  Legislators  formed  com- 
plex coalitional  blocs  to  choose  executives,  whom  they  promptly 
turned  on  and  sought  to  subvert.  Congressionally  sanctioned  coups, 
labeled  "constitutional  coups,"  were  only  one  example  of  the  pre- 
vailing political  instability. 

Under  Siles  Zuazo,  the  full  complexity  of  the  crisis  emerged. 
From  the  outset,  the  government  was  weakened  by  a  serious  con- 
frontation between  the  legislature  and  the  executive  over  alterna- 
tive solutions  to  the  economic  predicament.  Responsibility  for 
resolving  the  crisis  rested  with  the  executive,  whereas  Congress  exer- 
cised its  oversight  powers.  Additionally,  the  presence  of  minuscule 
parties  in  Congress  exacerbated  the  confrontation  between  the  UDP 
and  the  parties  in  the  legislature. 

As  a  result  of  the  government's  inability  to  deal  with  Congress, 
Siles  Zuazo  relied  on  executive  decrees.  Congress,  in  turn,  charged 
the  president  with  unconstitutional  behavior  and  threatened  to  im- 
peach or  overthrow  him  in  a  constitutional  coup.  During  the  three 
years  of  his  presidency,  Siles  Zuazo  was  unable  to  put  down  the 
congressional  threat,  directed  by  opposition  parties  but  bolstered 
by  groups  from  his  own  UDP. 

Between  1982  and  1985,  the  Siles  Zuazo  government  attempted 
to  address  Bolivia's  economic  crisis  by  negotiating  several  tenta- 
tive paquetes  economicos  (stabilization  programs)  with  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary).  Each  was  the  center 
of  a  recurring  political  battle  that  put  Siles  Zuazo  in  the  middle 
of  a  class  struggle  between  the  powerful  COB,  which  represented 
labor,  peasants,  and  sectors  of  the  middle  class,  and  the  relatively 
small  but  organized  private  sector  led  by  the  Confederation  of  Pri- 
vate Entrepreneurs  of  Bolivia  (Confederation  de  Empresarios  Priva- 
dos  de  Bolivia — CEPB).  This  conflict  reflected  a  recurring  debate 
in  Bolivia  between  models  of  development  and  the  question  of  what 
class  should  bear  its  costs.  It  also  revealed  the  extent  of  Bolivia's 
reliance  on  foreign  aid. 

Between  1982  and  1985,  the  CEPB  and  COB  attempted  to  pres- 
sure the  government  to  enact  policies  favorable  to  their  interests. 
Siles  Zuazo  would  decree  a  stabilization  program  designed  to  satisfy 
the  IMF  and  the  United  States  internationally  and  the  CEPB 
domestically.  The  COB  would  respond  with  strikes  and  demon- 
strations, often  backed  by  peasants  and  regional  civic  associations. 
Lacking  congressional  support,  the  government  would  modify  the 
program  to  the  point  of  annulling  its  effectiveness  through  wage 


186 


Government  and  Politics 

increases  and  subsidies,  thereby  provoking  the  wrath  of  the  CEPB 
and  IMF. 

By  1984  the  government  was  completely  immobilized  and  in- 
capable of  defining  effective  economic  policies.  The  result  was  the 
transformation  of  a  severe  economic  crisis  into  a  catastrophe  of 
historic  proportions.  During  the  first  half  of  1985,  inflation  reached 
an  annual  rate  of  over  24,000  percent.  In  addition,  Bolivia's  debt- 
servicing  payments  reached  70  percent  of  export  earnings.  In  De- 
cember 1984,  lacking  any  authority  to  govern  because  of  the  conflict 
with  Congress,  labor,  the  private  sector,  and  regional  groups,  the 
Siles  Zuazo  government  reached  the  point  of  collapse.  As  the  cri- 
sis intensified,  the  opposition  forced  Siles  Zuazo  to  give  up  power 
through  a  new  round  of  elections  held  in  July  1985. 

The  1985  elections  reflected  the  complex  nature  of  the  Bolivian 
political  process.  Banzer,  who  had  stepped  down  in  disgrace  in  1978, 
won  a  slight  plurality  with  28.5  percent;  the  old  titan  of  the  MNR, 
Paz  Estenssoro,  finished  a  close  second  with  26.4  percent.  A  fac- 
tion of  the  MIR,  headed  by  Vice  President  Jaime  Paz  Zamora, 
took  third.  An  indication  of  the  left's  fall  from  the  grace  of  the  elec- 
torate was  the  MNRI's  showing  of  only  5  percent. 

In  Congress  the  MNR  moved  quickly  to  form  a  coalition  that 
would  enable  Paz  Estenssoro  to  gain  the  presidency.  After  luring 
the  MIR  with  promises  of  state  patronage,  a  coalition  was  formed, 
and  Paz  Estenssoro  was  elected  president  of  Bolivia  for  the  fourth 
time  since  1952.  Although  enraged  by  the  outcome  of  the  congres- 
sional vote,  Banzer  and  the  ADN  made  the  calculated  decision  to 
accept  it.  In  so  doing,  the  former  dictator  protected  his  long-term 
political  interests. 

Democracy  and  Economic  Stabilization 

In  1985  the  entire  nation  was  submerged  in  a  state  of  tense  antic- 
ipation as  Paz  Estenssoro  unveiled  his  strategy  to  confront  the 
economic  and  political  crisis.  Throughout  August  1985,  a  team  of 
economists  worked  to  design  the  new  government's  economic  in- 
itiatives. The  private  sector  came  to  play  a  crucial  role  in  the  elabo- 
ration and  implementation  of  the  government's  economic  policy. 
The  private  sector's  main  organization,  the  CEPB,  had  shifted  its 
traditional  support  for  authoritarian  military  solutions  and  by  1985 
had  become  clearly  identified  with  free-market  models  that  called 
for  reducing  the  state's  role  in  the  economy.  When  the  economic 
reforms  were  announced,  the  impact  on  the  private  sector  became 
evident. 

On  August  29,  1985,  Paz  Estenssoro  signed  Decree  21060,  one 
of  the  most  austere  economic  stabilization  packages  ever  imple- 
mented in  Latin  America.  Hailed  as  the  NPE,  the  decree  sought 


187 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

to  address  the  structural  weaknesses  in  the  state  capitalist  develop- 
ment model  that  had  been  in  place  since  1952.  Specifically,  the 
decree  aimed  at  ending  Bolivia's  record- setting  hyperinflation  and 
dismantling  the  large  and  inefficient  state  enterprises  that  had  been 
created  by  the  revolution.  Hence,  the  NPE  represented  a  shift  from 
the  longstanding  primacy  of  the  state  in  promoting  development 
to  a  leading  role  by  the  private  sector.  The  NPE  also  rejected  the 
notion  of  compatibility  between  populist  redistribution  and  capitalist 
development  that  had  characterized  previous  MNR-led  regimes. 

After  addressing  the  economic  side,  Paz  Estenssoro  moved  to 
resolve  the  political  dimensions  of  the  crisis.  In  fact,  shortly  after 
the  announcement  of  Decree  21060,  the  COB,  as  it  had  done  so 
often  under  Siles  Zuazo,  headed  a  movement  to  resist  the  NPE. 
But  the  COB  had  been  weakened  by  its  struggles  with  Siles  Zuazo. 
After  allowing  the  COB  to  attempt  a  general  strike,  the  govern- 
ment declared  a  state  of  siege  and  quickly  suffocated  the  protest. 
Juan  Lechin  Oquendo  and  174  other  leaders  were  dispatched  to 
a  temporary  exile  in  the  Bolivian  jungle.  They  were  allowed  to 
return  within  weeks.  By  then,  the  government  had  already  deliv- 
ered the  COB  a  punishing  blow  that  all  but  neutralized  organized 
labor. 

Even  as  he  moved  to  contain  the  COB,  Paz  Estenssoro  sought 
to  overcome  the  potential  impasse  between  the  executive  and  legis- 
lature that  had  plagued  Siles  Zuazo  for  three  years.  The  MNR  did 
not  have  a  majority  in  Congress,  and  therefore  Paz  Estenssoro  had 
to  contemplate  a  probable  confrontation  with  the  legislature;  for 
this  reason,  among  others,  he  decreed  the  NPE.  In  moving  to  over- 
come this  political  gap,  Paz  Estenssoro  did  not  seek  support  from 
the  center-left  groups  that  elected  him.  Indeed,  any  move  in  that 
direction  would  have  precluded  the  launching  of  the  NPE  in  the 
first  place.  Paz  Estenssoro  had  in  fact  seized  on  parts  of  the  pro- 
gram pushed  by  Banzer  and  the  ADN  during  the  electoral  cam- 
paign. As  a  result,  Banzer  was  left  with  the  choice  of  backing  Paz 
Estenssoro  or  opposing  a  stronger  version  of  his  own  policy  pro- 
gram. 

Discussions  opened  by  Paz  Estenssoro  with  Banzer  ripened  into 
a  formal  political  agreement,  the  Pact  for  Democracy  (Pacto  por 
la  Democracia — pacto),  signed  on  October  16,  1985.  The  formula- 
tion of  the  pacto  was  a  crucial  political  development.  Under  its  terms, 
Banzer  and  the  ADN  agreed  to  support  the  NPE,  a  new  tax  law, 
the  budget,  and  repression  of  labor.  In  return,  the  ADN  received 
control  of  a  number  of  municipal  governments  and  state  corpora- 
tions from  which  patronage  could  be  used  to  consolidate  its  or- 
ganizational base.  The  MNR  also  agreed  to  support  reforms  to 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


the  electoral  law  aimed  at  eliminating  the  leftist  groups  that  voted 
against  Banzer  in  Congress.  Most  important,  the pacto  allowed  ADN 
to  position  itself  strategically  for  the  1989  elections. 

In  the  most  immediate  sense,  the  pacto  was  effective  because  it 
guaranteed  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government  a  political  base  for  im- 
plementing the  NPE.  For  the  first  time  in  years,  the  executive  was 
able  to  control  both  houses  of  Congress.  Paz  Estenssoro  used  this 
control  to  sanction  the  state  of  siege  and  defeat  all  attempts  of  the 
left  to  censure  the  NPE.  In  broader  historical  terms,  the  pacto  was 
significant  because  it  created  a  mechanism  to  overcome  the  struc- 
tural impasse  between  the  executive  and  the  legislature. 

The  pacto  served  other  purposes  as  well;  for  example,  it  gave  Paz 
Estenssoro  leverage  over  some  of  the  more  populist  factions  of  the 
MNR  who  were  unhappy  with  the  NPE  because  they  saw  it  as  a 
political  liability  in  future  elections.  For  three  years,  Paz  Estens- 
soro used  the  pacto  to  prevent  any  possible  defections.  Hence,  party 
factions  that  could  have  harassed  the  president  contemplated  the 
immediate  costs  of  being  cut  off  from  patronage  even  as  they  were 
forestalled  in  their  larger  political  goal  of  altering  the  NPE. 

As  in  Colombia  and  Venezuela,  where  pacts  between  the  prin- 
cipal parties  were  responsible  for  the  institutionalization  of  democ- 
racy, the.  pacto  was  deemed  an  important  step  toward  consolidating 
a  two-party  system  of  governance.  In  contrast  to  the  Colombian 
and  Venezuelan  cases,  however,  the  pacto  was  based  more  on  the 
actions  of  Banzer  and  Paz  Estenssoro  than  on  the  will  of  their  respec- 
tive parties.  Moreover,  because  the  pacto  was  a  reflection  of 
patronage-based  politics,  its  stability  during  electoral  contests  was 
tenuous  at  best.  During  the  municipal  elections  in  1987,  for  ex- 
ample, party  members,  when  confronted  with  patronage  offers  from 
opposition  parties,  faced  enormous  difficulties  in  adhering  to  it. 

The  campaign  for  the  1989  elections  tested  the  pacto  to  the  break- 
ing point.  At  issue  was  the  need  to  ensure  that  in  the  event  neither 
candidate  secured  a  majority,  the  losing  party  would  support  the 
victor  in  Congress.  Polls  conducted  in  December  1988  and  Janu- 
ary 1989  suggested  that  Banzer  could  emerge  victorious.  Under 
the  terms  of  an  addendum  to  the  pacto  signed  in  May  1988,  the 
MNR  would  be  obligated  to  support  Banzer  in  Congress.  This  sit- 
uation provoked  a  sense  of  despair  in  the  MNR,  which  perceived 
itself  as  an  extension  of  the  ADN  with  no  real  likelihood  of  emerg- 
ing victorious  in  May  1989. 

In  a  surprising  pre-electoral  move,  Banzer  announced  the  for- 
mation of  a  "national  unity  and  convergence  alliance"  between 
the  ADN  and  MIR.  Congress  deliberated  fourteen  hours  on  Au- 
gust 5  before  electing  Jaime  Paz  Zamora  as  president  of  Bolivia 


189 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

and  Luis  Ossio  Sanjines  of  the  ADN-Christian  Democratic  Party 
(Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  alliance  as  vice  president. 
On  handing  the  presidential  sash  to  his  nephew,  Paz  Zamora,  on 
August  6,  Paz  Estenssoro  thereupon  became  the  first  president  to 
complete  a  full  term  in  office  since  his  second  presidency  in  1960-64. 
The  political  maturity  of  the  election  was  illustrated  not  only  by 
Banzer's  support  for  the  MIR  and  the  MIR's  willingness  to  join 
with  the  ADN  but  also  by  the  vows  of  both  Banzer  and  Paz  Zamora 
to  continue  with  the  policies  of  the  NPE. 

The  ' 'national  unity  and  convergence  alliance,"  however,  re- 
vealed that  old  ways  of  doing  politics  had  survived.  Although  the 
ADN  and  MIR  each  received  nine  ministries,  the  ADN  controlled 
the  principal  policy-making  bureaucracies,  such  as  foreign  affairs, 
defense,  information,  finance,  mining  and  metallurgy,  and  agricul- 
ture and  peasant  affairs.  The  ADN's  share  of  the  cabinet  posts  went 
to  many  of  the  same  individuals  who  had  ruled  with  Banzer  in  the 
1970s.  The  MIR's  principal  portfolios  were  energy  and  planning. 
Following  a  traditional  spoils  system  based  on  patronage,  the  new 
ruling  partners  divided  among  themselves  regional  development 
corporations,  prefectures,  and  decentralized  government  agencies, 
as  well  as  foreign  embassy  and  consular  posts. 

The  1989  Elections 

In  the  initial  months  of  1989,  the  MNR  tried  in  vain  to  post- 
pone the  election  date,  arguing  that  the  deadline  for  electoral  regis- 
tration restricted  citizen  participation.  In  December  1988,  the 
party's  delegation  in  Congress  had  managed  to  amend  the  elec- 
toral law  of  1986.  Arguing  that  the  new  registration  requirements, 
which  limited  registration  to  citizens  who  possessed  cedulas  de  iden- 
tidad  (national  identity  cards),  constituted  a  violation  of  universal 
suffrage,  the  MNR  pushed  through  legislation  that  added  birth  cer- 
tificates and  military  service  cards  as  valid  registration  documents. 
The  ADN  refused  to  go  along  with  its  ally  and  eventually  charged 
the  MNR  with  conducting  fraudulent  registrations.  By  mid- 
February  this  issue  had  triggered  the  rupture  of  the  pacto. 

The  end  of  the  pacto  revealed  an  old  reality  about  Bolivian  poli- 
tics. To  achieve  power,  broad  electoral  alliances  must  be  estab- 
lished; yet,  electoral  alliances  have  never  translated  into  stable  or 
effective  ruling  coalitions.  On  the  contrary,  electoral  alliances  have 
exacerbated  the  tensions  built  into  a  complex  system.  Thus,  once 
in  power,  whoever  controls  the  executive  must  search  for  mecha- 
nisms or  coalitions  such  as  the  pacto  to  be  able  to  govern.  This  search 
was  the  single  most  important  challenge  facing  Bolivian  politicians 
in  the  1980s. 


190 


President  Jaime  Paz  Zamora 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Bolivia, 
Washington 


As  expected,  every  political  party  was  forced  to  scramble  for  new 
allies.  The  ADN  joined  forces  with  the  now  minuscule  Christian 
Democrats  by  naming  Ossio  Sanjines  as  Banzer's  running  mate 
in  an  effort  to  attract  other  political  elements.  Banzer  led  every 
major  poll,  and  the  ADN  repeatedly  called  for  Congress  to  respect 
the  first  majority  to  emerge  from  the  May  7  election. 

The  situation  was  more  complex  in  the  MNR  where,  after  a  bitter 
internal  struggle,  Gonzalo  Sanchez  de  Lozada,  a  pragmatic  former 
minister  of  planning  and  coordination  and  prominent  entrepreneur, 
captured  the  party's  nomination.  The  MNR's  strategy  was  to  de- 
velop Sanchez  de  Lozada' s  image  as  a  veteran  movimientista  (move- 
ment leader)  to  capture  populist  support.  At  the  same  time,  party 
strategists  intended  to  attract  support  from  outside  the  party  by 
building  on  the  candidate's  entrepreneurial  background.  The  task 
of  converting  the  candidate  into  an  old  party  member  apparently 
succeeded:  old-line  populist  politicians  dominated  the  first  slots  on 
the  party's  legislative  lists.  The  naming  of  former  President  Walter 
Guevara  Arze  as  the  vice  presidential  candidate  was  perceived  as 
further  evidence  of  the  party's  success  in  influencing  the  candidate. 

Following  a  similar  electoral  logic,  the  MIR  sought  to  broaden 
its  base  of  support  by  establishing  ties  with  several  parties,  includ- 
ing Carlos  Serrate  Reich's  9th  of  April  Revolutionary  Vanguard 
(V anguardia  Revolucionaria  9  de  Abril — VR-9  de  Abril),  the  Revo- 
lutionary Front  of  the  Left  (Frente  Revolucionario  de  Izquierda), 


191 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

and  a  number  of  dissidents  from  the  MNRI.  Paz  Zamora,  the 
MIR's  candidate,  led  in  some  polls,  and  most  analysts  agreed  that 
he  would  pose  a  significant  threat  to  the  MNR  and  ADN. 

The  left  attempted  a  comeback  following  the  disastrous  experience 
of  the  UDP  years.  Headed  by  Antonio  Aranibar's  Free  Bolivia 
Movement  (Movimiento  Bolivia  Libre — MBL),  the  left  grouped 
into  a  broad  front  labeled  the  United  Left  (Izquierda  Unida — IU). 
The  IU  brought  together  splinter  factions  of  the  MIR,  the  Socialist 
Party  One  (Partido  Socialista  Uno— PS-1),  and  the  PCB,  and  it 
counted  on  the  support  of  organized  labor,  especially  the  COB. 
Given  the  historical  divisions  within  the  Bolivian  left,  however,  the 
IU  was  not  perceived  to  be  a  serious  contender.  If  it  could  main- 
tain unity  beyond  the  1989  elections,  observers  believed  that  its 
impact  might  be  greater  than  anticipated. 

The  main  newcomer  to  national  electoral  politics,  although  no 
stranger  to  La  Paz  politics,  was  Carlos  Palenque.  Popularly  known 
as  el  compadre  (the  comrade),  Palenque  was  a  former  folksinger 
turned  radio  and  televison  owner  and  talk  show  host.  His  "popu- 
lar" style  of  broadcasting  had  always  enjoyed  widespread  appeal 
in  the  working-class  and  marginal  neighborhoods  surrounding  La 
Paz.  For  at  least  a  decade,  Palenque  had  been  regarded  as  a  possi- 
ble candidate  for  mayor  of  La  Paz;  during  the  1987  municipal  elec- 
tions, his  name  was  under  consideration  by  the  MNR. 

Palenque 's  move  into  national  politics  was  prompted  by  the  clos- 
ing down  of  his  television  station  for  airing  accusations  made  by 
an  infamous  drug  trafficker,  Roberto  Suarez  Gomez,  against  the 
Bolivian  government  (see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5).  To  pro- 
mote his  candidacy,  Palenque  founded  Conscience  of  the  Father- 
land (Conciencia  de  la  Patria — Condepa),  which  grouped  together 
a  bizarre  strain  of  disaffected  leftists,  populists,  and  nationalists 
who  had  defected  from  several  other  parties. 

Ten  parties  and  fronts  contested  the  election,  which  was  held 
as  scheduled  on  May  7,  1989.  The  results,  a  virtual  three-way  tie 
among  the  MNR,  ADN,  and  MIR,  were  not  surprising  (see  table 
16,  Appendix).  As  expected,  Congress  once  again  was  given  the 
task  of  electing  the  next  president  from  the  top  three  contenders. 
But  the  slight  majority  (a  mere  5,815  votes)  obtained  by  the  MNR's 
candidate,  Sanchez  de  Lozada,  was  surprising  to  observers,  as  was 
the  unexpected  victory  by  Palenque  in  La  Paz  Department.  His 
showing  was  significant  in  a  number  of  ways.  First,  it  demonstrated 
that  none  of  the  major  political  parties  had  been  able  to  attract  lower 
middle-class  and  proletarian  urban  groups,  who  had  flocked  to  el 
compadre;  Palenque  had  wisely  targeted  marginal  and  displaced  sec- 
tors of  La  Paz.  Second,  Condepa' s  showing  reflected  the  growth 


192 


Presidential  campaign  graffiti  in  an  Altiplano  town 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 
Political  graffiti  in  14  de  Septiembre,  the  Chapare 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


193 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

of  racial  and  ethnic  tension  in  Bolivian  electoral  politics.  For  the 
first  time  in  the  history  of  the  Bolivian  Congress,  for  example,  a 
woman  dressed  in  native  garb  would  serve  as  a  deputy  for  La  Paz 
Department. 

Claims  of  fraud  from  every  contender,  especially  in  the  recount- 
ing of  the  votes,  clouded  the  legitimacy  of  the  process.  At  one  stage, 
fearing  an  agreement  between  the  ADN  and  MIR,  the  MNR  called 
for  the  annulment  of  the  elections.  Indeed,  negotiations  were  well 
advanced  between  the  MIR  and  ADN  to  upstage  the  relative  vic- 
tory obtained  by  the  MNR.  Between  May  and  early  August,  the 
top  three  finishers  bargained  and  manipulated  in  an  attempt  to  se- 
cure control  of  the  executive  branch. 

The  composition  of  Congress  exacerbated  the  tensions  between 
the  parties  in  contention.  Because  seventy-nine  seats  are  needed 
to  elect  a  president,  compromise  was  indispensable.  In  mid- 1989, 
however,  it  was  unclear  whether  the  political  system  in  Bolivia  had 
matured  enough  to  allow  for  compromise. 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups 

Political  Parties 

Bolivian  political  parties  do  not  perform  the  classic  functions  of 
aggregating  and  articulating  the  interests  of  social  classes,  regions, 
or  individuals.  Historically,  political  parties  have  been  divorced 
from  pressure  groups  such  as  labor,  the  private  sector,  and  regional 
civic  committees.  Instead,  parties  have  been  vehicles  through  which 
politicians  can  lay  a  claim  to  state  patronage.  As  in  other  Latin 
American  nations,  the  dependent  nature  of  the  middle  class,  which 
does  not  own  hard  sources  of  wealth  and  therefore  relies  on  the 
state  for  employment,  accounts  partially  for  this  role. 

Since  the  1950s,  the  MNR  has  been  the  major  party  in  Bolivia. 
Because  the  MNR  was  the  party  of  the  1952  Revolution,  every 
major  contemporary  party  in  Bolivia  is  rooted  in  one  way  or  another 
in  the  original  MNR.  The  rhetoric  of  revolutionary  nationalism 
introduced  by  the  MNR  has  dominated  all  political  discourse  since 
the  1950s.  Owing  to  the  fact  that  the  MNR  was  a  coalition  of  po- 
litical forces  with  different  agendas  and  aspirations,  however,  the 
subsequent  splits  in  the  party  determined  the  course  of  Bolivian 
politics. 

The  major  splits  in  the  MNR  occurred  among  Guevara  Arze, 
Paz  Estenssoro,  Siles  Zuazo,  and  Lechm,  the  principal  founders 
of  the  party.  Each  led  a  faction  of  the  party  that  sought  to  control 
the  direction  and  outcome  of  the  revolution.  As  MNR  leaders  tried 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


to  subvert  each  other,  factional  strife  culminated  in  the  overthrow 
of  the  MNR  and  the  exile  of  the  four  titans  of  the  revolution. 

Although  years  of  military  rule  did  not  erode  the  MNR's  ap- 
peal, factional  disputes  within  the  party  resulted  in  a  proliferation 
of  parties  that  surfaced  in  the  late  1970s  when  the  military  opted 
for  elections.  Indeed,  political  party  lines  were  very  fluid;  party 
boundaries  were  not  the  product  of  ideological  distinctions  and 
shifted  at  any  moment. 

In  the  late  1970s,  Paz  Estenssoro,  Lechm,  Siles  Zuazo,  and 
Guevara  -Arze  reemerged  as  the  principal  political  actors.  Siles 
Zuazo's  MNRI  joined  forces  with  the  PCB  and  the  MIR  to  finally 
gain  control  of  the  presidency  in  1982.  Paz  Estenssoro  orchestrated 
a  congressional  vote  that  catapulted  him  to  power  in  1985.  Until 
1986  Lechm  remained  at  the  helm  of  the  COB.  Guevara  Arze  served 
as  interim  president  in  1979  and  was  the  MNR's  vice  presidential 
candidate  in  1989. 

Founded  in  1979  by  Banzer,  the  ADN  was  the  most  important 
political  party  to  have  emerged  in  the  1980s.  The  ADN  was  sig- 
nificant in  that  it  grouped  the  supporters  of  Banzer  into  a  relatively 
modern  party  structure.  Simultaneously,  however,  the  ADN  was 
a  classic  caudillo-based  party,  with  Banzer  sitting  at  the  top  as  the 
undisputed  leader. 

The  ADN's  ideology  of  democratic  nationalism  was  not  signifi- 
cantiy  contrary  to  the  revolutionary  nationalism  of  the  MNR;  in 
fact,  several  of  the  principal  ADN  leaders  were  dissidents  of  the 
MNR.  In  large  part,  however,  democratic  nationalism  was  rooted 
in  a  nostalgia  for  the  stability  experienced  under  Banzer' s  dictator- 
ship in  the  1970s. 

Since  the  1979  elections,  the  ADN's  share  of  the  electorate  has 
grown  considerably.  Especially  in  the  urban  areas,  the  party  has 
attracted  the  upper  sectors  of  the  middle  class.  Its  call  for  order, 
peace,  and  progress  following  the  turmoil  of  the  Siles  Zuazo  years 
resulted  in  its  outpolling  other  parties  in  the  1985  election.  Banzer 
claimed  to  have  the  backing  of  500,000  Bolivians,  a  figure  that 
would  make  the  ADN  the  largest  party  in  Bolivia. 

The  other  significant  political  party  to  emerge  after  1970  was 
the  MIR.  Founded  in  1971  by  a  group  of  young  Christian  Demo- 
crats educated  at  Lou  vain  University  in  Belgium,  the  MIR  was 
linked  to  the  student  movement  that  swept  across  the  world  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  1960s.  Initially,  the  MIR  expressed  solidarity  with 
urban  guerrilla  groups  such  as  the  National  Liberation  Army 
(Ejercito  de  Liberacion  Nacional — ELN)  and  had  close  ties  to  its 
namesake,  Chile's  more  radical  Movement  of  the  Revolutionary 
Left  (Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolucionaria — MIR). 


195 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Bolivian  MIR  achieved  political  maturity  during  Siles 
Zuazo's  government.  As  a  part  of  the  cabinet,  it  was  responsible 
in  large  measure  for  enacting  important  economic  decrees.  Paz 
Zamora,  the  MIR's  chief,  served  as  the  UDP's  vice  president.  Like 
other  Bolivian  political  groups,  however,  the  MIR  went  from  a 
party  of  idealistic  youth  to  an  organization  that  was  captured  by 
a  cadre  of  job-hungry  politicians. 

By  1985  the  MIR  had  split  into  at  least  three  broad  factions  that 
represented  the  ideological  tensions  within  the  original  party.  Paz 
Zamora' s  faction  was  the  most  successful,  mainly  because  it  re- 
tained the  party's  name  while  avoiding  responsibility  for  the  UDP 
period.  By  the  late  1980s,  Paz  Zamora' s  MIR  had  become  the  third 
largest  political  party  in  Bolivia;  indeed,  some  observers  believed 
that  after  the  May  1989  elections  it  would  eclipse  the  MNR.  The 
new  MIR  portrayed  itself  as  a  Social  Democratic  party  that  could 
work  within  the  parameters  of  the  NPE  implemented  in  1985. 

The  MBL,  which  reflected  one  of  the  more  orthodox  Marxist 
strains  within  Bolivia's  original  MIR,  remained  an  important  MIR 
faction  in  the  late  1980s.  For  the  1989  elections,  the  MBL  managed 
to  put  together  the  IU.  The  IU  included  the  remnants  of  a  deeply 
divided  Bolivian  left,  including  the  PCB,  which  was  still  feeling 
the  effects  of  its  role  in  the  infamous  UDP  coalition. 

The  Military 

In  1952  the  MNR  downgraded  the  military  as  an  institution  and 
attempted  to  create  new  armed  forces  imbued  with  revolutionary 
zeal.  This  event  initiated  a  long  and  complex  relationship  between 
the  armed  forces  and  politicians.  The  1964  coup  by  General 
Barrientos  began  a  cycle  of  military  intervention  that  culminated 
only  in  1982,  with  the  withdrawal  of  the  military  from  the  political 
arena  (see  Military  Rule,  1964-82,  ch.  1;  Evolution  of  the  Mili- 
tary Role  in  Society  and  Government,  ch.  5). 

By  then  the  military  as  an  institution  had  been  reduced  to  a  col- 
lection of  factions  vying  for  control  over  the  institution  and  the 
government.  A  process  of  disintegration  within  the  armed  forces 
reached  its  extreme  form  under  General  Garcia  Meza,  who  took 
power  in  1980  after  overthrowing  Lidia  Gueiler  Tejada  (1979-80), 
a  civilian  constitutional  president  (see  The  Tumultuous  Transi- 
tion to  Democracy,  1978-82,  ch.  1).  By  that  juncture,  however, 
the  military  was  plagued  by  deep  internal  cleavages  along  ideo- 
logical, generational,  and  rank  lines.  The  connection  of  Garcia 
Meza  and  his  followers  to  the  burgeoning  cocaine  industry  further 
divided  the  armed  forces. 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


Officers  such  as  Banzer  and  Garcia  Meza  represented  the  last 
vestiges  of  the  prerevolutionary  armed  forces  that  sought  unsuc- 
cessfully to  eradicate  populism  in  Bolivia.  In  the  process,  however, 
they  discredited  the  military  and,  at  least  in  the  short  run,  elimi- 
nated the  institution  as  a  power  option  in  Bolivian  politics.  The 
older  generation  retired  in  disgrace,  accused  of  narcotics  traffick- 
ing, corruption,  and  violations  of  human  rights. 

Since  1982  the  military  has  undergone  a  major  reconstruction 
process.  The  old  guard  of  "coupist"  officers  was  replaced  as  the 
generation  of  officers  who  had  graduated  from  the  new  military 
academy  in  the  1950s  reached  the  upper  echelons  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  younger  generation  appeared  committed  to  the  rebuild- 
ing of  the  military  and  manifested  its  support  for  civilian  rule.  It 
also  accepted  end-of-year  promotions  authorized  by  the  Senate. 

After  1982  key  officers  rejected  overtures  from  a  few  adventure- 
some civilians  and  soldiers  who  were  dismayed  by  the  "chaos  and 
disorder"  of  democratic  rule.  The  military  command  was  even  in- 
volved in  aborting  a  coup  attempt  in  June  1984  that  included  Siles 
Zuazo's  brief  kidnapping.  Officers  realized  that  a  coup  against  Siles 
Zuazo  or  any  other  civilian  would  disturb  the  military's  efforts  to 
rebuild . 

The  military's  unwillingness  to  launch  another  coup  was  even 
more  significant  given  the  economic  and  political  situation  in  Bolivia 
between  1982  and  1985.  The  COB  and  business,  regional,  and 
peasant  groups  exerted  untenable  demands  on  the  Siles  Zuazo 
government.  All  of  these  groups  tried  to  coerce  the  regime  by  using 
tactics  such  as  strikes,  roadblocks,  and  work  stoppages. 

The  military  remained  in  its  barracks  despite  the  social  turmoil 
that  enveloped  the  country.  Indeed,  the  only  military  action  dur- 
ing this  period  occurred  in  response  to  a  presidential  directive.  In 
March  1985,  Siles  Zuazo  called  upon  the  military  to  restore  order 
after  miners  occupied  La  Paz.  Once  this  had  been  accomplished, 
the  armed  forces  retreated  obediently.  Their  mission  then  became 
one  of  ensuring  the  peaceful  transfer  of  power  to  the  victor  of  the 
1985  elections.  The  military's  role  in  support  of  democracy  in  the 
late  1980s  was  in  large  measure  dependent  on  the  success  of  Paz 
Estenssoro's  reforms  under  the  NPE.  In  early  1989,  Bolivia's  armed 
forces  had  no  reason  or  excuse  to  intervene. 

Because  of  the  military's  willingness  to  engage  in  joint  exercises 
with  United  States  troops  and  in  drug  interdiction  programs  in  the 
late  1980s,  the  military  once  again  became  the  recipient  of  aid  that 
had  been  drastically  reduced  since  1980.  The  joint  antinarcotics 
operation  with  the  United  States,  dubbed  "Operation  Blast  Fur- 
nace," also  provided  the  military  with  important  equipment  and 


197 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

training.  In  fact,  a  close  partnership  developed  between  Bolivia's 
armed  forces  and  the  United  States  Southern  Command  (see  For- 
eign Military  Assistance  in  the  1980s;  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5). 

A  new  generation  of  officers  were  to  assume  command  of  the 
armed  forces  in  the  1990s.  Most  were  young  cadets  during  the  1970s 
and  were  given  special  treatment  and  protection  by  General  Banzer. 
Some  observers  had  suggested  that  these  officers  might  have  in- 
tervened if  Banzer  had  been  denied  the  presidency  in  1989  by  a 
congressional  coalition. 

Organized  Labor 

Historically,  organized  labor  in  Bolivia  had  been  one  of  the  most 
politically  active  and  powerful  in  Latin  America.  Owing  to  the  im- 
portance of  mining  in  the  economy,  the  Trade  Union  Federation 
of  Bolivian  Mineworkers  (Federacion  Sindical  de  Trabaj adores 
Mineros  de  Bolivia — FSTMB)  has  been  the  backbone  of  organized 
labor  since  the  mid- 1940s.  Before  the  1952  Revolution,  the  FSTMB 
orchestrated  opposition  to  the  three  dominant  tin  barons  and  led 
protests  against  worker  massacres. 

During  the  first  few  days  of  the  revolution,  the  MNR  founded 
the  COB  in  order  to  group  the  FSTMB  and  the  other  labor  unions 
under  an  umbrella  organization  that  would  be  subordinate  to  the 
party.  In  creating  the  COB,  the  MNR  was  following  the  example 
of  Mexico's  PRI,  which  effectvely  controlled  labor  through  the 
party's  structures.  In  Bolivia  the  COB  and  especially  the  FSTMB, 
which  controlled  labor  in  the  nationalized  mining  sector,  pushed 
for  worker  comanagement  and  cogovernment.  Moreover,  worker 
militias  were  allowed  to  form  freely  when  the  military  as  an  insti- 
tution was  downgraded. 

As  a  result,  the  COB  became  an  autonomous  institution  that 
challenged  the  primacy  of  the  MNR.  Relations  between  the  MNR 
and  the  COB  were  more  state  to  state  than  party  to  subordinate 
labor  union.  In  fact,  the  COB  came  to  perceive  the  state  as  an  ap- 
paratus that  had  been  appropriated  by  the  MNR  politicians  and 
that  had  to  be  captured  in  order  to  further  the  interests  of  the  work- 
ing class.  This  relationship  was  to  characterize  the  relations  be- 
tween the  COB  and  the  Bolivian  state  until  the  mid-1980s. 

As  the  COB  grew  in  power,  the  MNR  relied  on  the  reconstructed 
military  to  control  labor  and  its  militias.  With  the  adoption  of  a 
state  capitalist  model  of  development  that  postponed  the  aspira- 
tions of  organized  labor,  the  conflict  between  the  state  and  labor 
deepened.  This  conflict  climaxed  in  the  mid-1960s  under  the  mili- 
tary government  that  overthrew  the  MNR.  With  the  exception  of 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


the  1969-71  period,  the  military  initiated  a  long  period  of  repression 
that  sent  the  COB  into  clandestine  existence. 

When  the  military  called  for  elections  in  1978,  the  COB,  despite 
being  oudawed  between  1971  and  1978,  reemerged  as  the  only  insti- 
tution able  to  represent  the  interests  of  the  working  class.  Moreover, 
the  COB  directed  the  workers  to  demand  economic,  political,  and 
social  rights  that  had  been  denied  to  them  throughout  the  military 
period. 

Labor's  strength  climaxed  during  Siles  Zuazo's  second  term 
(1982-85).  However,  the  economic  crisis  had  reached  such  extremes 
that  in  surrendering  to  the  demands  of  the  workers  the  UDP  govern- 
ment only  exacerbated  the  economic  situation.  Although  this  period 
demonstrated  the  power  of  the  COB  to  coerce  governments,  it  also 
led  to  the  downfall  of  organized  labor.  As  the  COB  staged  hundreds 
of  strikes  and  stoppages,  the  economy  faltered  and  public  opinion 
turned  against  labor. 

The  MNR  government  headed  by  Paz  Estenssoro  thus  was  able 
to  impose  the  NPE  on  the  workers.  The  COB  attempted  to  stage 
a  strike,  but  three  years  of  confrontation  with  the  Siles  Zuazo 
government  had  seriously  weakened  its  ability  to  mobilize  labor. 
With  the  support  of  the  pacto,  Paz  Estenssoro  imposed  a  state  of 
siege  that  effectively  debilitated  organized  labor.  Indeed,  the  COB's 
power  was  undermined  so  effectively  that  in  the  late  1980s  it  was 
incapable  of  staging  a  general  strike. 

After  1985  labor's  efforts  centered  on  preventing  the  decentrali- 
zation and  restructuring  of  Comibol.  The  restructuring  of  the  na- 
tionalized mining  sector,  especially  the  mass  layoffs,  had  decimated 
the  FSTMB.  As  a  result,  the  COB  demanded  the  rehabilitation 
of  Comibol  and  respect  for  the  rights  of  labor  unions.  In  Septem- 
ber 1986,  the  FSTMB  sponsored  a  workers'  march,  dubbed 
"March  for  Life,"  to  fend  off  plans  to  restructure  Comibol,  to  halt 
mass  firings,  and  to  raise  miners'  salaries.  In  response,  the  govern- 
ment declared  a  congressionally  sanctioned  state  of  siege  and  im- 
mediately imposed  Decree  21337,  which  called  for  the  restructuring 
of  Comibol  along  the  lines  originally  prescribed  in  Decree  21060. 

The  "March  for  Life"  forced  government  and  labor  to  enter 
into  negotiations,  mediated  by  the  Bolivian  Bishops  Conference 
(Conferencia  Episcopal  Boliviana — CEB),  that  postponed  the  im- 
plementation of  Decree  21337.  The  result  was  an  accord  whereby 
the  government  agreed  that  all  production  and  service  units  tar- 
geted for  elimination  by  the  decree  would  remain  intact.  Moreover, 
the  government  agreed  that  all  management  decisions  in  Comibol 
would  be  made  only  after  consulting  with  labor  unions.  Finally, 


199 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

the  MNR  government  promised  to  end  massive  layoffs  and  agreed 
that  employment  would  be  capped  at  17,000  in  Comibol. 

Because  the  accord  was  opposed  by  radical  labor  leaders  grouped 
under  the  so-called  Convergence  Axis,  the  agreement  fell  through, 
and  Decree  21337  was  imposed.  Labor  had  suffered  its  worst  defeat. 
In  July  1987,  radical  labor  leaders  were  ousted  at  the  COB's  con- 
vention. COB  strategies  in  1988  proved  more  effective.  In  May 
1988,  for  example,  it  helped  defeat  proposals  to  decentralize  health 
care  and  education.  For  the  moment,  labor  had  been  reduced  to 
defensive  actions  that  sought  to  protect  its  few  remaining  benefits. 
Nonetheless,  the  COB  was  still  a  formidable  force  that  would  have 
to  be  faced  in  the  future.  For  democracy  to  survive  in  Bolivia,  it 
was  clear  that  the  demands  and  aspirations  of  labor  would  have 
to  be  taken  into  account. 

The  Peasantry 

The  peasantry  became  politically  active  only  after  the  1952  Revo- 
lution. Previously,  much  of  the  Indian  peasant  population  had  been 
subjected  to  a  form  of  indentured  service  called  pongaje  and  had 
been  denied  voting  rights  through  a  series  of  legal  restrictions. 
Pongaje  ended  with  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law  enacted  in  1953. 
Universal  suffrage,  in  turn,  incorporated  the  Indian  masses  into 
Bolivian  political  life. 

The  MNR  established  a  new  type  of  servitude,  however,  by  using 
the  Indian  peasant  masses  as  pawns  to  further  the  political  interests 
of  the  party.  Party  bosses  paraded  peasants  around  at  election  ral- 
lies and  manipulated  peasant  leaders  to  achieve  particularistic  gain. 
Some  authors  have  labeled  this  system  of  political  servitude  pongaje 
politico,  a  term  that  evokes  images  of  the  prerevolutionary  exploi- 
tation of  the  peasantry. 

As  the  MNR  surrendered  control  of  the  countryside  to  the  mili- 
tary, the  peasantry  came  to  rely  extensively  on  military  protection. 
This  reliance  enabled  the  military  to  forge  the  so-called  Peasant- 
Military  Pact,  through  which  they  promised  to  defend  the  newly 
acquired  lands  of  the  peasantry  in  return  for  help  in  defeating  any 
new  attempts  to  dismantle  the  military  as  an  institution. 

With  the  overthrow  of  the  MNR  in  1964,  General  Barrientos 
buttressed  his  grip  on  power  by  manipulating  the  Peasant-Military 
Pact.  The  pact  became  a  mechanism  through  which  the  military 
co-opted  and  controlled  the  peasantry.  Autonomous  peasant  or- 
ganizations, as  a  result,  failed  to  emerge. 

During  Banzer's  presidency,  the  military  attempted  to  continue 
the  manipulation  of  the  peasantry.  In  January  1974,  peasant 
demonstrations  against  price  increases  culminated  in  a  bloody 


200 


A  meeting  of  Aymara  Indians  in  the  Altiplano  region 
Movie  theater  mural  in  Llaqui, 
a  mining  town  in  Potosi  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 


201 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

incident  known  as  the  "Massacre  of  Tolata,"  in  which  more  than 
100  peasants  were  either  killed  or  wounded.  The  Tolata  incident 
put  an  end  to  the  Peasant- Military  Pact;  paradoxically,  it  led  to 
the  emergence  of  a  number  of  autonomous  peasant  and  Indian  or- 
ganizations that  remained  active  in  politics  in  the  late  1980s. 

The  most  significant  was  the  Katarista  movement,  or  Katarismo, 
which  embraced  political  parties  and  a  campesino  union.  The  po- 
litical parties,  such  as  the  Tupac  Katari  Indian  Movement  (Movi- 
miento  Indio  Tupac  Katari — MITKA),  were  based  on  an  ideology 
rooted  in  the  Indian  rebellion  that  Julian  Apasa  (Tupac  C atari, 
also  spelled  Katari)  led  against  the  Spaniards  in  1781  (see  State, 
Church,  and  Society,  ch.  1).  After  1978  the  MITKA  succeeded 
in  electing  several  deputies  to  Congress. 

The  union-oriented  branch  of  Katarismo  founded  the  Tupac 
Katari  Revolutionary  Movement  (Movimiento  Revolucionario 
Tupac  Katari— MRTK).  In  1979  the  MRTK  established  the  first 
peasant  union  linked  to  the  COB,  known  as  the  General  Trade 
Union  Confederation  of  Peasant  Workers  of  Bolivia  (Confedera- 
cion  Sindical  Unica  de  Trabajadores  Campesinos  de  Bolivia — 
CSUTCB).  The  establishment  of  this  union  was  a  significant  de- 
velopment. For  the  first  time,  an  autonomous  peasant  organiza- 
tion recognized  a  commonality  of  interests  with  labor.  Many 
observers  noted,  however,  that  the  campesino  movement  had  never 
really  been  accepted  by  the  COB.  Moreover,  the  fortunes  of  the 
MRTK  were  tied  to  those  of  its  ally,  the  UDP. 

In  the  1980s,  Bolivian  peasant  organizations  fared  poorly.  MITKA 
and  MRTK  parties  performed  worse  than  anticipated  in  elections 
and  were  forced  to  seek  alliances  with  larger  parties.  Electoral  re- 
forms in  1980  and  1986  further  undermined  the  capacity  of  peasant 
political  parties  to  compete  in  national  elections.  The  greatest  chal- 
lenge confronting  these  movements  was  the  need  to  break  the  mo- 
nopoly over  the  peasantry  held  in  the  countryside  by  the  traditional 
political  parties. 

Regional  Civic  Committees 

In  the  late  1980s,  Bolivia  was  one  of  the  least  integrated  nations 
of  Latin  America.  Because  Bolivia's  geographic  diversity  generated 
deep  regional  cleavages,  Bolivian  governments  had  been  challenged 
to  incorporate  vast  sectors  of  the  country  into  the  nation's  politi- 
cal and  economic  systems.  The  most  profound  of  these  regional 
splits  separated  the  eastern  lowlands  region  known  as  the  Oriente 
(Santa  Cruz,  Beni,  and  Pando  departments  and  part  of  Cocha- 
bamba  Department)  from  the  Altiplano.  Natives  of  the  Oriente, 
called  Cambas,  often  looked  with  disdain  at  highlanders,  referred 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


to  as  Kollas.  Over  the  years,  Cambas  contended  that  the  central 
government,  located  in  La  Paz,  had  financed  the  development  of 
the  Altiplano  by  extracting  resources  from  Santa  Cruz  Department. 
This  became  a  self-fulfilling  prophecy  in  the  mid-1980s  because 
of  the  primacy  of  natural  gas  and  the  collapse  of  the  mining  indus- 
try. For  most  of  Bolivia's  history,  however,  the  Altiplano  had  sup- 
ported the  development  of  the  Oriente. 

In  this  context  of  regional  disputes,  comites  civicos  (civic  commit- 
tees) emerged  to  articulate  and  aggregate  the  interests  of  cities  and 
departments.  The  most  significant  was  the  pro-Santa  Cruz  Civic 
Committee,  founded  in  the  early  1950s  by  prominent  members  of 
that  department's  elite.  In  the  late  1950s,  this  committee  effectively 
challenged  the  authority  of  the  MNR  in  Santa  Cruz.  Some  ob- 
servers argued  that  between  1957  and  1959  the  Civic  Committee 
in  effect  ruled  Santa  Cruz  Department.  As  was  the  case  with  other 
sectors  of  society,  the  MNR  was  unable  to  subordinate  regional 
interests  to  the  interests  of  the  party. 

During  the  period  of  military  rule,  leaders  of  the  civic  commit- 
tees received  prominent  government  posts.  During  the  Banzer 
period,  for  example,  members  of  the  Santa  Cruz  committee  were 
named  mayor  and  prefect.  The  military  was  among  the  first  to  dis- 
cover that  civic  committees  were  better  mechanisms  for  regional 
control  than  political  parties. 

Civic  committees  also  proved  to  be  more  effective  representa- 
tives of  departmental  interests.  Under  democratic  rule,  the  civic 
committee  movement  bypassed  parties  as  valid  intermediaries  for 
regional  interests.  This  situation  was  attributable  to  the  political 
parties'  failure  to  develop  significant  ties  to  regions.  Regional  dis- 
putes often  took  precedence  over  ideology  and  party  programs. 
Nevertheless,  although  civic  committees  often  presented  the  de- 
mands of  their  respective  regions  directly  to  the  executive  branch, 
the  Constitution  of  1967  states  that  only  political  parties  can 
represent  the  interests  of  civil  society.  Civic  committees  thus  forged 
contacts  within  political  parties,  and  political  parties,  in  turn,  ac- 
tively sought  out  members  of  civic  committees  to  run  on  their  slates. 
These  efforts  by  political  parties  to  incorporate  the  demands  of  the 
civic  committees  as  their  own  could  be  perceived  as  healthy  for  the 
institutionalization  of  an  effective  party  system  in  Bolivia.  More- 
over, civic  committees  helped  to  relieve  partially  the  regional  ten- 
sions that,  under  authoritarian  regimes,  were  mediated  only  by 
the  military. 

The  Private  Sector 

Although  historically  Bolivia  had  a  very  small  private  sector,  it 
wielded  considerable  political  influence.  Before  the  1952  Revolution, 


203 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

three  large  enterprises  accounted  for  the  bulk  of  the  nation's  min- 
ing production  and  were  the  only  other  major  source  of  employ- 
ment besides  the  state.  With  the  advent  of  the  revolution  and  the 
nationalization  of  the  mines,  the  private  sector  suffered  a  severe 
setback.  The  ideology  of  the  revolutionaries  was  to  establish  a  model 
of  development  in  which  the  state  would  take  the  lead  role.  But 
the  MNR's  intention  was  also  to  create  a  nationally  conscious  bour- 
geoisie that  would  reinvest  in  Bolivia  and  play  a  positive  role  in 
the  country's  development. 

As  the  revolution  changed  course  in  the  1950s,  the  private  sec- 
tor recovered  under  the  tutelage  of  the  state.  Joint  ventures  with 
private,  foreign,  and  domestic  capital  were  initiated  during  the  late 
1950s,  and  Bolivia  moved  firmly  in  a  state  capitalist  direction  in 
the  1960s.  This  pattern  of  development  had  a  negative  effect  on 
the  private  sector.  Private  entrepreneurs  became  dependent  on  the 
state  for  contracts  and  projects.  This  dependence  eliminated  en- 
trepreneurial risk  for  some  individuals  in  the  private  sector  while 
simultaneously  increasing  the  risks  for  others  who  lacked  govern- 
mental access.  As  a  result,  the  private  sector  divided  into  two  broad 
camps:  those  who  depended  on  the  state  and  prospered  and  those 
who  relied  on  their  entrepreneurial  skills  and  fared  poorly. 

In  1961  the  CEPB  was  founded  as  a  pressure  group  to  represent 
the  interests  of  the  private  sector  before  the  state.  Fearing  the  im- 
pact of  populist  and  reformist  governments,  the  private  sector  sought 
protection  from  the  military;  in  fact,  individual  members  of  the 
CEPB  often  funded  coups.  Beginning  with  the  Barrientos  govern- 
ment, the  CEPB  exerted  pressure  on  military  regimes  and  extracted 
significant  concessions  from  the  state.  The  private  sector  came  to 
play  a  protagonist  role  during  the  dictatorship  of  Banzer;  many 
members  of  the  CEPB  staffed  key  ministries  and  were  responsible 
for  designing  policies. 

During  this  period,  however,  the  CEPB  did  not  speak  for  the 
private  sector  as  a  whole.  In  fact,  many  private  entrepreneurs  be- 
came disenchanted  with  the  economic  model  and  opposed  the  Ban- 
zer regime.  State  capitalism  actually  hindered  the  development  of 
a  modern  and  efficient  private  sector  because  a  few  individuals 
benefited  at  the  expense  of  the  majority.  Moreover,  private  entre- 
preneurs realized  that  the  state  was  a  competitor  that  had  an  un- 
fair advantage  in  the  marketplace. 

By  the  end  of  the  tumultuous  transition  period  in  1982,  CEPB 
members  generally  believed  that  a  liberalized  economy  and  a  dem- 
ocratic system  would  serve  its  class  interests  better  than  any  author- 
itarian dictatorship.  The  CEPB  became  one  of  the  principal  groups 
that  forced  the  military  out  of  politics  in  1982.  It  then  pressured 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


the  weak  UDP  government  to  liberalize  the  economy  and  to 
eliminate  state  controls  over  market  forces,  opposing  attempts  to 
regulate  the  activity  of  the  private  sector.  Ironically,  although  gener- 
ally hostile  to  the  private  sector,  several  UDP  policies,  such  as  the 
"dedollarization"  decree,  were  highly  favorable  to  that  sector  (see 
Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3). 

During  the  UDP  period,  the  CEPB  emerged  as  a  class-based 
organization  that  articulated  the  interests  of  the  private  sector  and 
countered  those  of  COB-led  labor.  In  a  very  real  sense,  a  well- 
structured  class  conflict  developed  as  two  class-based  organizations 
battled  each  other  within  the  framework  of  liberal  representative 
democracy. 

The  introduction  of  the  NPE  in  1985  represented  the  culmina- 
tion of  years  of  efforts  by  the  private  sector  to  liberalize  the  econ- 
omy. Prominent  members  in  the  private  sector,  such  as  Gonzalo 
Sanchez  de  Lozada,  Fernando  Romero,  Fernando  Illanes,  and  Juan 
Cariaga,  played  a  key  role  in  the  elaboration  of  the  NPE.  They 
expected  the  NPE  to  end  the  devastating  economic  crisis  of  the 
mid-1980s  and  to  create  a  safe  environment  for  private  investment 
and  savings.  As  stabilization  measures  brought  a  spiraling  infla- 
tion rate  to  a  halt,  the  NPE  was  lauded  as  the  "Bolivian  miracle. ' ' 

Yet,  the  NPE  did  not  please  the  entire  private  sector,  mainly 
because  stabilization  had  not  produced  economic  reactivation.  Some 
entrepreneurs,  long  accustomed  to  the  protective  arm  of  the  state, 
realized  that  the  free  market  was  a  difficult  place  to  survive  and 
sought  to  alter  the  model.  Others  also  suggested  that  the  state  should 
reestablish  controls  to  protect  local  industry  from  what  they  consid- 
ered to  be  unfair  competition  from  neighboring  countries. 

Still,  privatization  of  state  enterprises  and  other  measures  helped 
raise  the  level  of  private  sector  confidence  in  the  NPE.  Because 
private  enterprise  was  by  definition  the  motor  of  the  new  economic 
model,  a  positive  and  supportive  outlook  developed  in  the  CEPB. 
Whether  or  not  this  attitude  would  continue  rested  on  the  ability 
of  the  government  to  reactivate  the  economy. 

The  Media 

Bolivian  governments  historically  recognized  the  political  sig- 
nificance of  the  media  and  attempted  to  censor  communication 
channels  employed  by  the  opposition.  In  the  1940s,  the  MNR  uti- 
lized the  daily  La  Calle  to  mobilize  support  for  its  cause.  During 
the  revolution,  the  MNR  purged  unfavorable  news  media  and  es- 
tablished La  Nation  as  the  official  news  organization.  Military 
governments,  in  particular,  subjected  journalists  to  harassment, 
jail  terms,  and  exile.  The  Banzer  government,  for  example,  expelled 


205 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

many  journalists  from  the  country.  In  the  early  part  of  the  1980s, 
General  Garcia  Meza  closed  down  several  radio  stations  and  or- 
dered the  creation  of  a  state-run  network  binding  all  private  sta- 
tions. Many  Bolivian  and  foreign  journalists  were  imprisoned  and 
their  reports  censored. 

After  1982  freedom  of  the  press  developed  as  an  important 
byproduct  of  the  democratization  of  Bolivian  politics.  Siles  Zuazo's 
government  was  perhaps  the  first  to  honor  its  pledge  to  respect  free- 
dom of  expression.  Radio  and  newspapers  were  guaranteed  free- 
doms that  Bolivians  had  never  enjoyed  previously. 

In  the  early  years  of  democratic  rule,  the  monopoly  enjoyed  by 
Channel  7,  the  state-run  television  station,  represented  the  greatest 
obstacle  to  freedom  of  the  press.  Until  1984  Channel  7  was  part 
of  the  patronage  distributed  to  partisan  supporters.  Although  the 
Siles  Zuazo  administration  respected  freedom  of  the  press  in  other 
media,  it  used  the  station  to  further  its  political  agenda  and  barred 
the  establishment  of  privately  owned  stations.  The  Ministry  of  In- 
formation argued  that  television  was  a  strategic  industry  that  had 
to  be  kept  under  state  control.  After  several  rounds  with  the  oppo- 
sition in  Congress,  the  minister  of  information  refused  to  issue  per- 
mits for  the  opening  of  private  television  stations. 

Despite  government  restrictions,  the  media  experienced  a  tremen- 
dous boom  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  growth  and  proliferation  of  party 
politics  generated  a  concomitant  expansion  in  the  communications 
industry.  Newspapers,  television,  and  radio  stations  mushroomed 
during  the  1984-85  electoral  season.  Some  forty-seven  public  and 
private  television  stations  were  in  operation  by  1989.  One  of  the 
great  surprises  was  the  presence  of  six  channels  in  the  city  of 
Trinidad,  Beni  Department,  which  had  a  population  of  fewer  than 
50,000.  In  short,  democracy  had  magnified  the  importance  of  the 
media  in  Bolivian  politics. 

In  1989  daily  newspapers  reflected  the  general  pattern  of  ties 
between  party  politics  and  the  media.  Five  daily  newspapers  en- 
joyed national  circulation:  Presencia,  Ultima  Hora,  Hoy,  El  Diario  (La 
Paz),  and  El  Mundo  (Santa  Cruz).  Of  these,  Presencia  was  the  only 
publication  that  did  not  reflect  partisan  interests.  Founded  in  1962 
under  Roman  Catholic  auspices,  Presencia  was  the  largest  and  most 
widely  read  newspaper,  with  a  circulation  of  90,000.  In  large  mea- 
sure, Presencia  reflected  the  opinions  of  socially  conscious  Roman 
Catholic  clergy,  who  often  used  its  pages  to  advocate  reform. 

The  oldest  newspaper  in  Bolivia  was  El  Diario,  with  a  circula- 
tion of  45,000.  Founded  in  1904,  this  daily  belonged  to  the  Carrasco 
family,  one  of  the  most  prominent  in  La  Paz.  Historically,  El  Diario 
reflected  the  very  conservative  philosophy  of  the  founding  family. 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


In  1971 ,  during  the  populist  fervor  of  the  Torres  period,  its  offices 
were  taken  over  by  workers  and  converted  into  a  cooperative.  The 
Banzer  government  returned  the  newspaper  to  the  Carrasco  family. 
Hence,  El  Diario  was  generally  perceived  as  partisan  to  the  views 
of  Banzer  and  his  ADN  party.  The  death  of  Jorge  Carrasco,  the 
paper's  director,  however,  apparently  changed  the  philosophy  of 
the  daily.  Jorge  Escobari  Cusicanqui,  the  new  director,  was  linked 
to  Condepa. 

El  Mundo,  with  a  circulation  of  20,000,  emerged  as  one  of  the 
most  influential  daily  newspapers  in  Bolivia.  It  was  owned  by 
Osvaldo  Monasterios,  a  prominent  Santa  Cruz  businessman.  This 
newspaper  was  commonly  identified  as  the  voice  of  the  ADN.  A 
similar  observation  could  be  made  about  Ultima  Hora,  formerly  an 
afternoon  paper  that  had  been  circulating  in  the  mornings  since 
1986.  Mario  Mercado  Vaca  Guzman,  one  of  Bolivia's  wealthiest 
entrepreneurs  and  a  well-known  ADN  militant,  owned  Ultima  Hora. 
This  newspaper  had  hired  outstanding  academics  to  write  its  edi- 
torials. 

Perhaps  the  most  politicized  of  all  newspapers  in  Bolivia  was  Hoy, 
owned  by  Carlos  Serrate  Reich,  an  eccentric  politician  who  also 
owned  Radio  Mendez.  Serrate  demonstrated  how  the  media  could 
be  utilized  to  achieve  electoral  advantage.  Through  Hoy,  which  had 
a  circulation  of  25,000,  and  Radio  Mendez,  Serrate  made  huge 
inroads  into  the  rural  areas  of  La  Paz  Department  for  the  VR-9 
de  Abril,  his  political  party.  The  only  other  newspaper  of  sig- 
nificance in  Bolivia  was  Los  Tiempos,  a  Cochabamba  daily  with  a 
circulation  of  18,000.  In  the  1970s,  Los  Tiempos  had  been  the  lead- 
ing newspaper  in  the  interior,  but  it  was  bypassed  by  El  Mundo 
in  the  1980s. 

Like  the  printed  media,  private  television  stations  reflected  the 
positions  of  the  major  political  parties  in  Bolivia.  By  the  same  token, 
the  political  line  of  the  owners  was  often  reflected  in  the  news  broad- 
casts of  each  channel.  This  situation  was  particularly  true  in  La 
Paz,  where  the  city's  eight  channels,  including  Channel  7  and  Chan- 
nel 13  (the  university  station),  were  tied  directly  to  political  parties. 

Foreign  Relations 

Bolivia's  foreign  relations  have  been  determined  by  its  geograph- 
ical location  and  its  position  in  the  world  economy.  Located  in  the 
heart  of  South  America,  the  country  has  lost  border  confronta- 
tions with  neighboring  nations.  Along  with  Paraguay,  Bolivia  is  a 
landlocked  nation  that  must  rely  on  the  goodwill  of  neighboring 
countries  for  access  to  ports.  Bolivia's  highly  dependent  economy 
has  exacerbated  the  nation's  already  weak  negotiating  position  in 


207 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

the  international  arena.  Economic  dependency  has  established  the 
parameters  within  which  Bolivia  could  operate  in  the  world. 

Bolivia's  history  is  replete  with  examples  of  a  recurring  tragi- 
comedy in  the  course  of  international  affairs.  Modern  Bolivia  is 
about  one-half  of  the  size  that  it  claimed  at  independence.  Three 
wars  accounted  for  the  greatest  losses.  Of  these,  the  War  of  the 
Pacific  (1879-83),  in  which  Bolivia  lost  the  Littoral  Department 
to  Chile,  was  clearly  the  most  significant;  it  still  accounted  for  a 
large  part  of  Bolivia's  foreign  policy  agenda  in  the  late  1980s.  Ter- 
ritorial losses  to  Brazil  during  the  War  of  Acre  (1900-1903)  were 
less  well  known  but  accounted  for  the  loss  of  a  sizable  area.  The 
bloody  Chaco  War  with  Paraguay  (1932-35)  culminated  in  the  loss 
of  90  percent  of  the  Chaco  region  (see  fig.  3). 

Relations  with  the  United  States  fluctuated  considerably  from 
the  1950s  to  the  1980s.  United  States  economic  aid  to  Bolivia  dur- 
ing the  1950s  and  1960s,  the  highest  rate  in  Latin  America,  was 
responsible  for  altering  the  course  of  the  1952  Revolution.  Subse- 
quent United  States  support  for  military  regimes  of  the  right, 
however,  left  a  legacy  of  distrust  among  sectors  of  the  Bolivian  popu- 
lation. The  lowest  point  in  bilateral  relations  was  reached  during 
the  military  populist  governments  of  General  Ovando  (1965-66 
and  1969-70)  and  General  Torres  (1970-71).  Student  protesters 
burned  the  binational  center  in  1971 ,  and  the  military  government 
expelled  the  Peace  Corps.  In  the  late  1970s,  then-President  Jimmy 
Carter's  human  rights  program  began  Bolivia's  transition  to 
democracy  by  suspending  United  States  military  assistance  to 
Bolivia.  Washington's  nonrecognition  of  Bolivia's  military  right- 
wing  governments  in  the  early  1980s  because  of  their  ties  to  the 
narcotics  industry  established  a  new  pattern  in  United  States- 
Bolivian  relations. 

The  democratic  era  that  began  in  1983  also  ushered  in  a  more 
cordial  phase  in  Bolivian  regional  relations.  Bolivia's  relations  with 
Brazil  and  Argentina  improved  significantly,  owing  in  part  to  a 
common  bond  that  appeared  to  exist  between  these  weak  democratic 
governments  emerging  from  military  rule  and  facing  the  challenges 
of  economic  chaos.  In  early  1989,  relations  with  Brazil  were  at  their 
highest  level  in  decades,  as  evidenced  by  new  trade  agreements. 
Relations  with  Argentina  were  rather  strained,  however,  because 
of  Argentina's  inability  to  pay  for  Bolivian  natural  gas  purchases. 
Bolivian-Chilean  relations  remained  contentious  because  Bolivia's 
principal  foreign  policy  goal  revolved  around  its  demand  for  an 
access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean. 

In  the  1980s,  Bolivia  became  more  active  in  world  affairs.  Ad- 
hering to  a  nonaligned  policy,  it  established  relations  with  the  Soviet 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


Union,  Cuba,  East  European  countries,  and  the  Palestine  Libera- 
tion Organization  (PLO).  In  some  cases,  such  as  with  Hungary, 
relations  matured  into  trade  agreements.  Bolivia  also  maintained 
an  important  presence  in  the  Organization  of  American  States 
(OAS)  and  the  United  Nations  (UN). 

The  United  States 

In  the  1980s,  the  growth  of  Bolivia's  narcotics  industry  domi- 
nated United  States-Bolivian  relations.  Drug  enforcement  programs 
in  Bolivia  were  begun  in  the  mid-1970s  and  gathered  strength  in 
the  early  part  of  the  1980s.  Concern  over  military  officers'  grow- 
ing ties  to  cocaine  trafficking  led  to  a  tense  relationship  that  cul- 
minated in  June  1980  in  the  military's  expulsion  of  the  ambassador 
of  the  United  States,  Marvin  Weisman,  as  a  persona  non  grata. 
The  ' '  cocaine  coup"  of  July  1980  led  to  a  total  breakdown  of  rela- 
tions; the  Carter  administration  refused  to  recognize  General  Garcia 
Meza's  government  because  of  its  clear  ties  to  the  drug  trade.  Presi- 
dent Ronald  Reagan  continued  the  nonrecognition  policy  of  his 
predecessor.  Between  July  1980  and  November  1981,  United  States- 
Bolivian  relations  were  suspended. 

In  November  1981,  Edwin  Corr  was  named  as  the  new  ambas- 
sador, thus  certifying  Bolivian  progress  in  narcotics  control.  Am- 
bassador Corr  played  a  key  role  in  forcing  the  military  to  step  down. 
In  the  subsequent  democratic  period,  Corr  helped  shape  the  drug 
enforcement  efforts  of  the  weak  UDP  government.  In  1983  Presi- 
dent Siles  Zuazo  signed  an  agreement  through  which  Bolivia 
promised  to  eradicate  4,000  hectares  of  coca  over  a  three-year  period 
in  return  for  a  US$14.2  million  aid  package.  Siles  Zuazo  also 
promised  to  push  through  legislation  to  combat  the  booming  drug 
industry. 

With  United  States  funding  and  training,  an  elite  antinarcotics 
force  known  as  the  Rural  Area  Police  Patrol  Unit  (Unidad  Movil 
Policial  para  Areas  Rurales — Umopar)  was  created  (see  The  Se- 
curity Forces,  ch.  5).  Siles  Zuazo 's  government,  however,  was 
incapable  of  carrying  out  an  effective  antinarcotics  program.  Op- 
position from  social  groups,  the  significance  of  traditional  coca  use 
in  Bolivia,  and  the  absence  of  a  major  drug  law  were  the  most  com- 
monly cited  explanations  for  this  failure.  Between  1982  and  1985, 
the  total  number  of  hectares  under  cultivation  doubled,  and  the 
flow  of  cocaine  out  of  Bolivia  increased  accordingly.  In  May  1985, 
in  a  final  effort  to  save  face  with  Washington,  the  Siles  Zuazo 
government  approved  a  decree  calling  for  extensive  drug  enforce- 
ment programs;  the  United  States  perceived  this  effort  as  too  little 
and  too  late,  however. 


209 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Under  Paz  Estenssoro's  government  (1985-89),  which  made  sin- 
cere efforts  to  combat  the  drug  trade,  relations  with  the  United 
States  improved  significantly.  As  a  result,  aid  to  support  economic 
reforms  increased  dramatically.  In  1989  Bolivia  received  the  greatest 
amount  of  United  States  aid  in  South  America  and  the  third  highest 
total  in  Latin  America,  behind  El  Salvador  and  Honduras.  The 
major  obstacle  to  harmonious  relations,  however,  remained  the 
prevalence  of  drug  trafficking. 

During  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government,  United  States  policy 
toward  Bolivia  was  split  between  congressional  efforts  to  enforce 
the  1985  Foreign  Assistance  Act,  limiting  aid  to  countries  that  en- 
gaged in  drug  trafficking,  and  the  Reagan  administration's  stated 
objective  of  helping  consolidate  and  strengthen  democratic  insti- 
tutions in  Latin  America.  Both  aspects  of  United  States  policy  were 
responsible  for  setting  the  course  of  relations  with  Bolivia. 

In  August  1985,  Corr  was  replaced  by  Edward  Rowell,  who 
worked  closely  with  the  new  Paz  Estenssoro  government  to  com- 
bat Bolivia's  economic  crisis  and  the  flourishing  drug  trade.  Rowell 
arrived  in  La  Paz  shortly  after  a  visit  of  members  of  the  Select  Com- 
mittee on  Narcotics  Abuse  and  Control  of  the  United  States  House 
of  Representatives.  The  committee's  report  revealed  a  deep  dis- 
trust for  Paz  Estenssoro's  stated  intention  to  carry  on  with  the  drug 
battle  and  to  implement  fully  the  provisions  of  the  May  1985  decree. 
In  June  1986,  owing  to  pressures  from  the  United  States  Congress, 
Washington  announced  the  suspension  of  US$7.1  million  in  aid 
because  Bolivia  had  not  satisfied  the  coca  eradication  requirements 
of  the  1983  agreement. 

Simultaneously,  however,  the  Bolivian  government  secretly  en- 
tered into  Operation  Blast  Furnace,  a  joint  Bolivian-United  States 
effort  aimed  at  destroying  cocaine  laboratories  in  Beni  Department 
and  arresting  drug  traffickers  (see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5). 
Despite  the  outcry  from  political  party  leaders  on  the  left,  who  ar- 
gued that  the  operation  required  Bolivian  congressional  approval 
because  it  involved  foreign  troop  movements  through  the  nation's 
territory,  Operation  Blast  Furnace  began  in  July  1986  with  the 
presence  of  over  150  United  States  troops.  Paz  Estenssoro's  govern- 
ment survived  the  tide  of  opposition  because  of  the  support  forth- 
coming from  the  ADN-MNR  pacto. 

Despite  Bolivia's  evident  willingness  to  fight  the  drug  war,  the 
United  States  Congress  remained  reluctant  to  certify  the  country's 
compliance  with  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act.  In  October  1986,  the 
Bolivian  envoy  to  Washington,  Fernando  Illanes,  appeared  before 
the  United  States  Senate  to  report  on  the  progress  made  under 
Operation  Blast  Furnace  and  on  the  intention  of  the  Bolivian 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


government  to  approve  an  effective  drug  law  to  both  eradicate  the 
coca  leaf  and  control  the  proliferation  of  cocaine  production.  Revela- 
tions of  continued  involvement  in  the  drug  trade  by  Bolivian  govern- 
ment officials,  however,  undermined  the  efforts  of  Paz  Estenssoro's 
administration  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  the  United  States  Congress. 

Congressional  efforts  in  the  United  States  to  sanction  Bolivia  con- 
tributed to  the  degree  of  frustration  felt  by  the  Paz  Estenssoro 
government.  Ambassador  Rowell,  however,  was  able  to  convince 
the  Reagan  administration  that  the  Bolivian  government  was  a 
trustworthy  partner  in  the  drug  war.  In  spite  of  another  reduction 
in  United  States  aid  in  late  1987,  the  Reagan  administration  cer- 
tified that  Bolivia  had  met  the  requirements  of  Section  481(h)  of 
the  Foreign  Assistance  Act.  Still,  the  United  States  Congress  was 
dissatisfied  and,  in  early  1988,  decertified  Bolivia's  progress. 

Bolivia's  efforts  met  with  some  encouragement  from  the  Rea- 
gan administration.  The  United  States  supported  Bolivia's  negoti- 
ations with  international  banks  for  debt  reduction  and  provided 
substantial  aid  increases  in  terms  of  both  drug  assistance  and  de- 
velopment programs.  United  States  aid  to  Bolivia,  which  totaled 
US$65  million  in  1987,  reached  US$90  million  in  1988.  Although 
the  Reagan  administration  requested  almost  US$100  million  for 
fiscal  year  1989,  disbursement  was  contingent  on  the  congressional 
certification  of  Bolivian  progress  on  eradication  programs.  Despite 
this  increase  in  assistance,  it  paled  in  comparison  with  total  co- 
caine production  revenues,  conservatively  estimated  at  US$600  mil- 
lion. Bolivian  opponents  to  the  drug  enforcement  focus  therefore 
argued  that  although  the  United  States  advocated  drug  enforce- 
ment and  interdiction  programs,  it  was  unwilling  to  fund  them. 

United  States  satisfaction  with  Bolivian  efforts  in  terms  of  stabiliz- 
ing the  economy,  consolidating  democracy,  and  fighting  the  drug 
war,  however,  was  evidenced  in  1987-88  with  the  announcement 
of  several  AID  programs.  Specifically,  assistance  was  targeted  to 
rural  development  projects  in  the  Chapare  region  of  Cochabamba 
Department,  the  center  of  the  cocaine  industry.  Other  AID  pro- 
grams in  health,  education,  and  privatization  of  state  enterprises 
were  also  initiated.  More  ambitious  projects  aimed  at  strengthen- 
ing democratic  institutions,  such  as  legislative  assistance  and  ad- 
ministration of  justice,  were  scheduled  for  initiation  in  1989.  AID 
also  proposed  the  creation  of  an  independent  center  for  democracy. 
Future  AID  disbursements,  however,  were  contingent  on  Bolivia's 
meeting  of  the  terms  of  the  Foreign  Assistance  Act  and  agreements 
signed  with  the  United  States  government  for  the  eradication  of 
5,000  to  8,000  hectares  of  coca  plantations  between  January  and 
December  1989. 


211 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

In  1988  Bolivia  moved  closer  toward  satisfying  United  States 
demands  for  more  stringent  drug  laws.  In  July  the  Bolivian  Con- 
gress passed,  and  Paz  Estenssoro  signed,  a  controversial  bill  known 
as  the  Law  of  Regulations  for  Coca  and  Controlled  Substances  (see 
Threats  to  Internal  Security,  ch.  5). 

The  bombing  incident  during  Secretary  of  State  George  P. 
Shultz's  visit  to  Bolivia  in  early  August  1988,  attributed  to  narco- 
terrorists,  raised  concern  that  a  wave  of  Colombian- style  terrorism 
would  follow  (see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  ch.  5).  Shultz's  visit  was 
intended  to  praise  Bolivia's  effort  in  the  drug  trade;  however,  in 
certain  Bolivian  political  circles  it  was  perceived  as  a  direct  mes- 
sage about  pressing  ahead  with  coca  eradication  efforts. 

Nevertheless,  with  the  approval  of  the  1988  antinarcotics  law  and 
a  new  mood  in  Washington  about  Bolivia,  Ambassador  Robert  S. 
Gelbard's  arrival  in  La  Paz  in  early  October  1988  was  an  auspi- 
cious event.  The  ambassador  headed  efforts  to  confer  "special  case" 
status  for  Bolivia  in  order  to  allow  for  a  more  rapid  disbursement 
of  aid.  In  return,  Bolivian  government  officials  pointed  out  that 
United  States-Bolivian  relations  were  at  their  highest  level  ever. 

Gelbard's  honeymoon,  however,  was  short  lived.  On  October  26, 
Umopar  troops  killed  one  person  and  injured  several  others  in  the 
town  of  Guayaramerm  in  the  Beni.  As  was  the  case  with  another 
violent  incident  in  Villa  Tunari  in  June  1988,  the  left  and  the  COB 
perceived  Umopar' s  actions  as  the  byproduct  of  a  zealous  and  mis- 
guided antidrug  policy.  The  presence  of  United  States  Drug 
Enforcement  Administration  (DEA)  agents  in  Guayaramerm  also 
renewed  questions  about  the  role  of  United  States  drug  enforce- 
ment agents.  As  1988  ended,  controversy  also  surrounded  the  an- 
nouncement that,  under  United  States  Army  civic-action  programs, 
United  States  technicians  would  help  remodel  and  expand  the 
airports  in  the  cities  of  Potosi  and  Sucre  (see  Foreign  Military 
Assistance  in  the  1980s,  ch.  5). 

United  States  support  for  the  Bolivian  government  was  expected 
to  continue.  In  large  measure,  however,  United  States  policy  de- 
pended on  the  perception  in  the  United  States  Congress  of  Bolivia's 
progress  in  controlling  the  drug  trade.  Operation  Blast  Furnace, 
the  1988  antinarcotics  law,  and  the  arrest  of  several  drug  lords 
demonstrated  that  Bolivia  had  become  a  loyal  and  useful  partner 
in  the  United  States  war  on  drugs.  Washington  expected  Bolivian 
cooperation  to  continue  after  the  May  1989  elections. 

The  Soviet  Union 

During  the  military  populist  governments  of  General  Ovando 
and  General  Torres  in  the  late  1960s,  Bolivia  initiated  relations 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


with  the  Soviet  Union  and  East  European  countries.  The  first  for- 
mal exchange  of  ambassadors  with  the  Soviet  Union  took  place 
in  1969  and  continued  into  the  late  1980s.  Political  relations  with 
the  Soviet  Union  were  strained  somewhat  during  the  first  years 
of  the  Banzer  regime,  but  they  improved  quickly  when  the  Krem- 
lin promised  aid  for  the  construction  of  huge  metallurgical  plants, 
such  as  La  Palca  and  Karachipampa.  A  paradoxical  situation  thus 
developed  as  the  Soviet  Union  established  extremely  good  relations 
with  the  right-wing  military  government. 

With  the  advent  of  democracy  in  the  early  1980s,  relations  with 
the  Soviet  Union  continued  to  improve.  The  UDP  government  es- 
tablished greater  commercial  ties,  and  political  relations  reached  their 
highest  level  since  1969.  But  the  situation  deteriorated  somewhat 
following  the  discovery  of  anomalies  in  the  construction  of  the  huge 
metallurgical  complexes  of  the  1970s.  La  Palca  and  Karachipampa 
became  useless  white  elephants,  but  the  Bolivian  government  still 
owed  for  the  cost  of  their  construction.  In  1985  Bolivia  requested 
that  the  plants  be  made  functional  and  that  the  Soviet  Union  take 
responsibility  for  their  poor  construction.  One  of  the  major  points 
in  contention  was  the  use  of  obsolete  technology  that  rendered  the 
plants  too  expensive  to  operate.  The  Soviet  Union  refused  to  take 
responsibility  for  any  defects  in  the  construction  of  the  plants.  Simul- 
taneously, the  Soviet  Union  was  quite  stringent  in  applying  con- 
ditions for  the  repayment  of  Bolivia's  debt.  Bolivia  requested  that 
its  debt  with  the  Soviet  Union  be  renegotiated  along  the  lines  of 
Paris  Club  (see  Glossary)  agreements,  but  Moscow  refused. 

Cool  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  were  also  attributed  to 
Bolivia's  continued  refusal  to  grant  landing  rights  to  Aeroflot,  the 
Soviet  Union's  national  airline.  Landing  rights  had  been  negotiated 
during  the  Siles  Zuazo  presidency.  In  1985  the  new  Bolivian  govern- 
ment had  promised  Moscow  that  Aeroflot  would  be  allowed  to  land 
on  Bolivian  territory.  In  return,  the  Soviet  Union  agreed  to  grant 
200  scholarships  and  200  round-trip  tickets  for  Bolivian  students 
and  US$200  million  in  aid.  Nonetheless,  the  conservative  daily  El 
Diario  led  a  campaign  to  deny  landing  rights  to  Aeroflot,  and  other 
airlines,  including  United  States-based  Eastern  Airlines,  joined  in 
this  effort.  A  report  from  the  military's  National  Security  Council 
claiming  that  Soviet  spies  and  arms,  rather  than  travel  agents,  would 
be  sent  to  La  Paz  served  to  shelve  a  decision  on  this  issue. 

The  Third  World 

Following  the  onset  of  democracy,  Bolivia  pursued  a  nonaligned 
foreign  policy.  In  1989  Bolivia  held  relations  with  every  communist 


213 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

nation,  including  Albania.  Relations  with  China  were  established 
in  1985,  and  diplomatic  relations  with  Taiwan  suspended.  In  1983 
Bolivia  had  established  relations  with  Cuba.  Relations  with  Cuba 
improved  steadily  in  the  mid-  to  late  1980s.  Cuba  donated  medi- 
cal equipment  to  hospitals  and  supported  Bolivia's  quest  for  non- 
aligned  status.  Bolivian  leaders,  including  the  foreign  minister,  met 
with  Fidel  Castro  Ruz  and  praised  the  achievements  of  the  Cuban 
Revolution. 

Bolivia's  foreign  policy  strategy  in  the  early  part  of  the  1980s 
was  labeled  ' ' independent  neutrality,"  which  was  an  external 
manifestation  of  domestic  populism  rooted  in  the  1952  Revolution. 
In  fact,  neutrality  in  foreign  affairs  was  historically  associated  with 
populist  regimes,  such  as  those  of  the  MNR  (especially  1952-56) 
and  Ovando  and  Torres  (1969-71). 

The  guiding  principle  of  independent  neutrality  was  that  diplo- 
matic relations  should  be  maintained  with  all  nations  of  the  world, 
regardless  of  political  ideology.  Respect  for  the  principles  of  nonin- 
tervention and  self-determination  was  a  second  underlying  theme. 
Independent  neutrality  reflected  a  nonaligned  thrust  with  deep  roots 
in  Bolivian  history.  The  first  Paz  Estenssoro  government  (1952-56), 
for  example,  was  the  first  to  adopt  a  policy  of  neutrality  that  reflected 
the  revolutionary  reality  of  the  country  in  the  1950s.  Subsequendy, 
General  Ovando 's  government  established  relations  with  the  Soviet 
Union,  and  in  1970  General  Torres  became  the  first  Bolivian  leader 
to  attend  a  conference  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement. 

The  Siles  Zuazo  regime  criticized  several  United  States  efforts 
in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  In  1981  the  Nicaraguan  dele- 
gation to  the  UN  allowed  Siles  Zuazo 's  "government  in  exile"  to 
denounce  human  rights  violations  in  Bolivia  by  the  Garcia  Meza- 
led  junta  that  was  in  power  in  La  Paz.  After  assuming  the  presi- 
dency, Siles  Zuazo  criticized  the  Nicaraguan  opposition  force,  the 
contras,  and  spoke  in  favor  of  the  Contadora  process,  the  diplomatic 
effort  initiated  by  Mexico,  Venezuela,  Colombia,  and  Panama  in 
1983  to  achieve  peace  in  Central  America.  In  1983  Bolivia  voted 
with  the  majority  in  the  UN  to  censure  the  joint  United  States- 
Caribbean  intervention  in  Grenada.  Siles  Zuazo 's  government  also 
joined  a  region-wide  movement  to  reform  the  OAS. 

Critics  of  the  1985-89  Paz  Estenssoro  administration  contended 
that  his  more  conservative  domestic  political  agenda  was  reflected 
in  Bolivia's  foreign  policy.  In  their  view,  foreign  policy  had  be- 
come increasingly  tied  to  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  affect- 
ing Bolivia's  relations  with  other  Latin  American  democracies. 
Critics  pointed  out  that  Bolivia  had  refused  to  participate  in  regional 
forums  on  the  foreign  debt  issue  since  1985,  pursuing  instead  direct 


214 


Government  and  Politics 


negotiations  with  international  banks.  Additionally,  they  charged 
that  Bolivia's  lack  of  interest  had  excluded  it  from  regional  integra- 
tion projects  such  as  the  Andean  Common  Market  (Ancom,  also 
known  as  the  Andean  Pact).  Others  pointed  out  that  Bolivia  lim- 
ited its  participation  in  regional  organizations  to  persuading  its 
Andean  neighbors  to  eliminate  the  controversial  Decision  24  from 
the  Ancom  charter  that  restricted  foreign  investment  in  the  region. 

The  loss  of  autonomy  in  foreign  policy,  however,  was  not  as  obvi- 
ous as  critics  claimed.  The  Bolivian  government,  in  fact,  had  ac- 
tively pursued  regional  ties;  for  example,  it  participated  in  Ancom 's 
Cartagena  Agreement  and  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  commercial 
and  development  agreement,  and  it  sponsored  a  meeting  of  the 
Amazonian  Pact.  In  terms  of  economic  integration,  the  Bolivian 
government  stressed  its  participation  in  the  Latin  American  Eco- 
nomic System  (Sistema  Economico  Latinoamericano — SELA)  and 
the  Latin  American  Integration  Association  (Asociacion  Latino- 
americana  de  Integration — ALADI). 

A  discernible  change  had  occurred,  however,  with  respect  to 
Bolivia's  policy  toward  the  Central  American  conflict.  In  contrast 
to  Siles  Zuazo,  Paz  Estenssoro  maintained  a  distance  from  the  con- 
flict, limiting  himself  to  endorsing  Costa  Rican  president  Oscar 
Arias  Sanchez's  initiatives.  Paz  Estenssoro  did  not  challenge  the 
United  States  on  this  issue,  which  remained  outside  regional  peace 
efforts,  such  as  the  Contadora  support  group.  Most  significantly, 
Bolivia  was  conspicuously  absent  from  the  Group  of  Eight  Latin 
American  democracies  that  demanded  hemispheric  autonomy, 
sought  support  for  Cuba's  return  to  the  OAS,  and  put  forth  an 
agenda  for  reforming  the  OAS. 

Bolivia  continued  to  maintain  good  relations  with  the  Nonaligned 
Movement  in  the  late  1980s,  although  they  were  not  as  close  as 
during  the  Siles  Zuazo  administration.  According  to  Guillermo 
Bedregal  Gutierrez,  Paz  Estenssoro' s  foreign  affairs  and  worship 
minister,  relations  were  established  with  seventeen  Nonaligned 
Movement  nations,  including  Ethiopia,  Mozambique,  and  Viet- 
nam. In  addition,  the  Paz  Estenssoro  regime  pointed  out  that 
Bolivia  occupied  the  vice  presidency  of  the  movement's  Ministerial 
Conference  in  1986  and  had  been  actively  involved  in  the  organi- 
zation of  the  Ministerial  Conference  for  1988. 

Neighboring  Countries 

Bolivia's  major  foreign  policy  position  in  the  twentieth  century 
concerned  its  demands  for  a  Pacific  Ocean  coastline  on  territory 
lost  to  Chile  during  the  War  of  the  Pacific  (1879-83).  In  the  early 


215 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

1980s,  the  Siles  Zuazo  administration  sought  the  support  of  the 
Nonaligned  Movement  at  its  conference  in  Managua.  Although 
Bolivia  secured  multilateral  support  for  its  claim,  international  pres- 
sure produced  few  results.  In  fact,  Chile  refused  to  deal  with  Bolivia 
unless  multilateral  organizations  such  as  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment and  the  OAS  were  excluded  from  the  negotiations. 

Relations  with  Chile  changed  following  the  election  of  Paz  Estens- 
soro.  Bedregal  met  on  a  regular  basis  with  his  Chilean  counterpart 
to  negotiate  an  outiet  for  Bolivia.  Bedregal  proposed  the  creation 
of  a  sovereign  strip  sixteen  kilometers  wide  that  would  run  north 
of  the  city  of  Arica  and  parallel  to  the  Peruvian  border.  The  tone 
of  the  negotiations  suggested  that  an  agreement  was  imminent. 

On  June  10,  1987,  however,  Chile  rejected  Bedregal's  proposal, 
sending  shock  waves  through  the  Bolivian  government.  The  con- 
fidence of  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government  was  seriously  shaken  by 
this  foreign  policy  defeat,  especially  after  so  much  emphasis  had 
been  placed  on  its  success.  Bolivians  were,  however,  swept  by 
another  wave  of  anti-Chilean  nationalism  in  support  of  the  govern- 
ment. Members  of  Bolivia's  civic  organizations  spontaneously  im- 
posed a  symbolic  boycott  of  Chilean  products.  Relations  with  Chile 
were  again  suspended,  and  little  hope  for  any  improvement  in  the 
near  future  remained. 

Relations  with  Argentina  and  Brazil,  in  contrast,  showed  im- 
provement. A  bond  of  solidarity  developed  among  the  three  na- 
tions owing  to  their  common  dilemma  of  trying  to  democratize  in 
the  midst  of  deep  economic  recessions.  Tensions  arose,  however, 
over  Argentina's  inability  to  pay  for  its  purchases  of  Bolivian  natural 
gas.  United  States  intervention  on  Bolivia's  behalf  provided  some 
relief  to  the  Bolivian  economy.  Although  by  early  1989  Argentina 
still  owed  over  US$100  million,  a  joint  accord  reached  in  Novem- 
ber 1988  reduced  tension.  Revenue  from  natural  gas  sales  was  cru- 
cial for  the  success  of  the  new  economic  model  adopted  in  1985. 
Hence,  Argentina's  discontinuance  of  purchases  of  Bolivian  natural 
gas  in  1992  when  the  sales  agreement  was  due  to  expire  could  prove 
to  be  catastrophic. 

Fortunately,  Bolivia  signed  important  trade  agreements  with 
Brazil  in  1988  and  1989.  Brazil  agreed  to  purchase  approximately 
3  million  cubic  meters  of  Bolivian  natural  gas  per  day  beginning 
in  the  early  to  mid-1990s  (see  Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas,  ch.  3). 
The  sales  were  projected  to  yield  approximately  US$373  million 
annually  to  the  Bolivian  economy.  Brazil  also  agreed  to  help  Bolivia 
build  a  thermoelectric  plant  and  produce  fertilizers  and  polymers. 
Finally,  Bolivia  and  Brazil  signed  an  agreement  for  the  suppression 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


of  drug  traffickers,  the  rehabilitation  of  addicts,  and  control  over 
chemicals  used  in  the  manufacturing  of  drugs. 

Membership  in  International  Organizations 

Latin  American  integration  was  a  major  tenet  of  Bolivian  for- 
eign policy  largely  because  Bolivia  recognized  its  severe  geographic 
limitations.  As  mentioned  earlier,  Bolivia  participated  actively  in 
the  Amazonian  Pact,  Ancom,  and  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  com- 
mercial and  development  agreement  in  the  late  1980s.  In  fact, 
Bolivia  was  the  only  country  in  Latin  America  that  could  boast 
membership  in  all  three  of  these  organizations.  Bolivia  was  also 
a  charter  member  of  the  OAS  and,  as  noted  previously,  was  ac- 
tive in  SELA  and  ALADI. 

Bolivia  was  a  founding  member  of  the  UN.  In  the  1980s,  the 
UN  served  as  a  forum  for  several  of  Bolivia's  demands,  including 
its  claims  against  Chile  for  access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  In  the  late 
1980s,  the  UN  also  provided  cooperation  on  debt-relief  programs 
and  advice  on  coca  eradication  programs. 

Like  those  of  other  nations  in  Latin  America,  Bolivia's  econ- 
omy was  closely  scrutinized  by  the  IMF,  the  World  Bank,  and  the 
Inter- American  Development  Bank  (IDB).  Although  its  credit  rat- 
ing had  been  adversely  affected  by  nonpayment  of  loans  to  private 
banks  since  1985,  Bolivia  managed  to  restore  its  credibility,  and 
the  IMF  and  other  lending  agencies  reopened  credit  lines. 

*     *  * 

Until  recentiy  very  little  literature  in  English  was  available  on  con- 
temporary Bolivian  politics.  For  information  on  Bolivia's  govern- 
mental system  and  politics,  readers  may  consult  the  following 
publications  of  James  M.  Malloy  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra:  Revo- 
lution and  Reaction;  "Bolivia  1985-1987"  in  Abraham  Lowenthal's 
Latin  America  and  Caribbean  Contemporary  Record;  and  "The  Transi- 
tion to  Democracy  in  Bolivia"  in  Malloy  and  Mitchell  A.  Seligson's 
Authoritarians  and  Democrats.  Other  useful  books  include  William  H. 
Brill's  Military  Intervention  in  Bolivia;  James  Dunkerley's  historical 
work,  Rebellion  in  the  Veins;  Jonathan  Kelley  and  Herbert  S.  Klein's 
Revolution  and  the  Rebirth  of  Inequality;  Klein's  Bolivia:  The  Evolution 
of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society;  Jerry  R.  Ladman's  multidisciplinary  study, 
Modern  Day  Bolivia;  Malloy 's  Bolivia:  The  Uncompleted  Revolution; 
Christopher  Mitchell's  excellent  The  Legacy  of  Populism  in  Bolivia;  and 
Rodolfo  Salinas  Perez's  La  reconquista  de  la  democracia. 

Bolivian  foreign  relations  are  discussed  in  Alberto  Crespo  Guti- 
errez's "Prioridades  de  la  polftica  exterior  Boliviana"  and  Jorge 


217 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Escobari  Cusicanqui's  "Enunciados  para  una  polftica  international 
Boliviana,"  both  in  Relaciones  Internacionales .  Additional  relevant 
materials  include  Gamarra's  "Democratization  and  Foreign  Pol- 
icy" and  "The  United  States,  Democracy,  and  the  War  on  Drugs 
in  Bolivia."  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


218 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


A  winged  human  figure  with  condor  symbols  on  the  body  of 
the  Great  Idol  of  Tiwanaku 


THE  ARMED  FORCES  OF  BOLIVIA,  principally  the  army, 
traditionally  have  played  a  central  role  in  the  nation's  politics,  in- 
tervening frequently  and  ruling  arbitrarily.  The  influence  of  the 
military  in  politics  predominated  for  most  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, from  the  revolt  against  Spain  in  1809  until  the  ignominious 
defeat  of  the  armed  forces  by  Chile  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific  in 
1880.  With  a  few  exceptions,  civilian  leaders  governed  the  coun- 
try until  1936,  when  the  military,  angered  by  their  humiliating 
defeat  by  Paraguay  in  the  Chaco  War  (1932-35),  which  they  blamed 
on  inept  civilian  leadership,  ousted  the  civilian  president  who  had 
led  the  country  into  the  disastrous  war. 

The  1952  Revolution  reestablished  civilian  rule.  Its  leaders,  mem- 
bers of  the  ruling  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement,  stopped 
short  of  completely  disbanding  Bolivia's  army,  however,  when  they 
realized  that  only  it  could  control  the  increasingly  militant  peasants' 
and  miners'  militias.  Although  the  leaders  of  the  Nationalist  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  tried  to  keep  the  military  subordinate,  its  power 
continued  to  increase.  The  force  of  military  tradition  eventually 
prevailed  as  the  military  seized  power  in  1964.  From  then  until 
1982,  Bolivia  had  eleven  military  governments.  With  its  reputa- 
tion at  a  low  point  as  a  result  of  the  corrupt  and  brutal  dictator- 
ship of  General  Luis  Garcia  Meza  Tejada  (1980-81),  the  military 
returned  to  the  barracks  in  1982. 

A  civilian  president,  democratically  elected  in  1980,  was  finally 
able  to  take  office  in  1982.  By  decade's  end,  Bolivia  was  still  under 
democratic  rule,  and  a  more  professional  military  had  emerged. 
It  had  dissociated  itself  from  Garcia  Meza  and  purged  its  ranks 
of  many  officers  who  had  been  implicated  in  narcotics  trafficking. 
Moreover,  it  had  not  reverted  to  its  traditional  pattern  of  inter- 
vention and  coups. 

Bolivian-United  States  military  relations  improved  considerably 
in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  when  the  United  States  once  again 
became  the  principal  source  of  foreign  military  assistance.  In  1985, 
after  an  eight-year  suspension,  the  United  States  renewed  military 
aid.  Although  Bolivia  did  not  have  a  guerrilla  insurgency  problem, 
joint  Bolivian-United  States  counterinsurgency  exercises  were  held 
in  the  eastern  lowlands  on  two  occasions,  in  1986  and  1987,  but 
public  criticism  forced  the  cancellation  of  the  one  scheduled  for  1988. 
Nevertheless,  United  States  military  assistance  continued,  and  some 
major  civic- action  projects  were  undertaken  in  1989. 


221 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

As  the  world's  second  largest  source  of  cocaine,  after  Peru,  Bolivia 
had  a  major  problem  in  the  1980s  with  narcotics  trafficking  and 
the  accompanying  violence,  corruption,  and  drug  abuse.  Because 
it  was  the  destination  for  an  estimated  80  percent  of  Bolivian  co- 
caine, the  United  States  began  providing  significant  assistance  to 
the  antidrug  efforts  of  Bolivia's  security  forces.  Special  Bolivian 
antinarcotics  police  were  created  under  a  1983  Bolivian-United 
States  antidrug  agreement.  United  States  military  personnel  and 
equipment  were  used  in  Bolivia  during  the  joint  Bolivian-United 
States  Operation  Blast  Furnace.  The  controversial  operation  marked 
the  first  time  that  the  United  States  had  committed  military  troops 
to  a  narcotics-control  mission  on  foreign  soil. 

Drug  trafficking  also  became  an  increasing  concern  for  Bolivian 
national  security  in  the  late  1980s,  as  wealthy  traffickers,  includ- 
ing Colombia's  Medellin  Cartel,  lobbied  for  the  Bolivian  cocaine 
industry.  This  lobbying  included  bribing,  intimidating,  and  assas- 
sinating government,  judicial,  military,  and  security  officials;  con- 
tributing to  and  discrediting  political  parties;  instigating  and 
financing  militant  demonstrations  by  coca  growers;  and  develop- 
ing ties  with  local  guerrilla  or  paramilitary  groups.  To  counter  these 
efforts,  the  1985-89  government  of  Victor  Paz  Estenssoro  signed 
another  agreement  with  the  United  States  in  1987.  Paz  Estenssoro 
subsequently  revamped  the  antinarcotics  structure  and,  in  1988, 
adopted  a  stringent  antidrug  law,  which  met  with  militant  opposi- 
tion from  the  organized,  coca-cultivating  peasantry  in  Cochabamba 
and  Beni  departments. 

The  Paz  Estenssoro  government  also  took  steps  to  reform  the 
overburdened  judicial  system,  which  was  frequently  corrupted  by 
narcotics  traffickers.  In  addition  to  dismissing  a  number  of  judges 
suspected  of  taking  bribes,  the  government  in  1988  created  thir- 
teen special  courts  to  expedite  the  prosecution  of  drug  traffickers 
and  the  confiscation  of  their  assets. 

Evolution  of  the  Military  Role  in  Society  and 
Government 

Early  History 

Bolivia's  pattern  of  military  revolts  was  established  soon  after 
independence  in  1825,  as  one  economic  elite  or  another  promoted 
its  interests  by  backing  a  particular  general  or  colonel.  Soon  after 
taking  office,  Marshal  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz  y  Calahumana  (1829- 
39)  created  an  armed  forces  command  and  organized  an  army  of 
between  5,000  and  10,000  members;  he  also  established  the  Mili- 
tary Academy  (Colegio  Militar)  in  1835.  The  army  was  reorganized 


222 


National  Security 


in  1839  following  its  decisive  defeat  by  Chile  in  the  Battle  of  Yungay 
and  divided  into  regular  and  paramilitary  forces.  Six  years  of  mili- 
tary service  became  obligatory  for  single  men.  After  soundly  defeat- 
ing the  5,400-member  invading  Peruvian  forces  in  the  Battle  of 
Ingavi  outside  La  Paz  in  1841,  Bolivia's  army,  with  4,100  mem- 
bers, was  reduced  to  between  1,500  and  2,000  men. 

At  the  outbreak  of  the  disastrous  War  of  the  Pacific  in  1879,  the 
army  consisted  of  690  officers  and  2,165  other  ranks,  but  it  was 
able  to  mobilize  about  12,100  men.  Nevertheless,  the  Chileans  easily 
defeated  Bolivia's  unprepared  army,  which  had  been  weakened  by 
years  of  declining  military  budgets.  The  Chilean  armed  forces  killed 
5,000  Bolivian  troops  at  Tacna  on  May  26,  1880,  under  the  com- 
mand of  General  Narcisco  Campero  Leyes  (see  War  of  the  Pacific, 
ch.  1).  Although  the  incipient  Bolivian  naval  force  had  played  no 
role  in  the  war,  it  lost  its  three  warships  and  Bolivia's  four  Pacific 
Coast  ports.  Henceforth,  Bolivian  boats  were  limited  to  navigat- 
ing Lake  Titicaca  and  Bolivia's  lowland  rivers. 

Postwar  leaders  attempted  to  create  a  more  professional  army. 
General  Campero  (1880-84),  Bolivia's  leading,  European-trained 
army  officer,  removed  its  discredited  older  officers.  Aniceto  Arce 
Ruiz  (1888-92)  reopened  the  Military  Academy  in  1891  (closed 
since  1847),  under  the  command  of  a  Bolivian  graduate  of  France's 
War  School.  The  academy  relocated  from  Sucre  to  La  Paz  in  1899. 
Arce  also  initiated  a  draft  service  and  established  the  ■ 'Sergeant 
Maximiliano  Paredes"  Noncommissioned  Officers  School  (Escuela 
de  Clases  "Sargento  Maximiliano  Paredes" — EC),  in  1900.  Despite 
these  advances,  the  army  was  unable  to  defeat  the  secessionist  move- 
ment in  Acre  (1900-1903),  and  Bolivia  ceded  the  territory  to  Brazil 
in  1903  (see  fig.  3). 

The  Bolivian  government  sought  European  help  in  reorganiz- 
ing its  army.  As  a  result,  the  principal  foreign  influences  on  the 
army  in  the  early  twentieth  century  were  French  and  German.  In 
1905  Bolivia  contracted  with  a  five-member  French  military  mis- 
sion, which,  over  the  next  four  years,  established  a  rudimentary 
armed  forces  General  Staff  (Estado  Mayor  General — EMG),  a  Staff 
College  (Colegio  del  Estado  Mayor — CEM),  and  a  Reserve  Officers 
School  (Escuela  de  Oficiales  de  la  Reserva).  From  1911  until  the 
outbreak  of  World  War  I,  an  eighteen-member  German  military 
mission  directed  the  Military  Academy  and  trained  and  advised 
the  army,  giving  it  a  Prussian  look  but  failing  to  enhance  its  mili- 
tary efficiency.  Cut  off  from  European  sources  of  equipment  and 
advice  during  the  war,  the  army  stagnated. 

Some  German  military  advisers  returned  after  the  war,  and  one, 
General  Hans  Kundt,  was  named  EMG  chief  in  1921,  minister 


223 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

of  national  defense  in  1925,  and  again  EMG  chief  in  1931  (he  was 
dismissed  shortly  thereafter  for  interfering  in  politics).  During  that 
period,  Bolivia's  military  made  some  progress.  By  1923  Bolivia 
had  created  the  Aviation  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Aviacion).  It  was  ex- 
panded two  years  later  into  a  military  aviation  service  that  included 
the  ''German  Busch"  Military  Aviation  Academy  (Colegio  Militar 
de  Aviacion  "German  Busch" — Colmilav). 

In  1924  the  army  was  reorganized  into  divisions,  each  with  six 
regiments.  Under  President  Hernando  Siles  Reyes  (1926-30),  the 
army  implemented  a  new  organizational  statute,  established  mili- 
tary zones,  and  reformed  the  curriculum  of  the  Military  Academy 
and  CEM.  It  also  established  the  Army  Health  Organization. 
Despite  the  improvements,  the  army  was  unable  to  defend  Bolivia's 
borders  when  two  years  of  mounting  tension  over  the  northern  part 
of  the  Chaco  region  erupted  into  war  with  Paraguay  in  December 
1932  (see  The  Chaco  War,  ch.  1). 

The  Legacy  of  the  Chaco  War 

From  the  outset  of  the  Chaco  War  (1932-35),  Bolivia's  Avia- 
tion Corps — with  forty-nine  aircraft,  including  twenty-eight  com- 
bat aircraft — established  aerial  superiority,  flying  frequent  tactical 
support  and  bombing  missions.  Its  transport  element  also  was  ac- 
tive in  supplying  the  troops  in  the  combat  zone.  Once  mobilized, 
Bolivia's  army  consisted  of  nine  divisions  and  more  than  12,000 
troops,  a  number  that  later  rose  to  25,000.  However,  in  addition 
to  being  ill  equipped,  poorly  supplied,  and  disastrously  led,  the 
army  consisted  largely  of  homesick,  bewildered  highland  Indians 
(indios)  from  the  Altiplano  (highland  plateau)  who  had  been  con- 
scripted or  impressed  into  service.  They  fought  stubbornly  and 
stoically,  but  the  more  resourceful,  better-led,  and  determined 
Paraguayans,  with  a  mobilized  force  of  24,000,  gradually  pushed 
them  back. 

Throughout  the  Chaco  War,  Bolivia's  army  Staff  (Estado  Mayor — 
EM)  feuded  with  the  civilian  leadership.  The  civil-military  rela- 
tionship deteriorated,  creating  a  legacy  of  bitterness  that  continued 
into  the  postwar  period.  The  war  was  a  humiliating  defeat  for 
Bolivia,  as  well  as  for  its  German-trained  army.  Of  a  total  of  250,000 
Bolivian  troops  mobilized,  as  many  as  65,000  were  killed. 
Moreover,  Bolivia  not  only  had  to  give  up  most  of  the  Chaco  ter- 
ritory but  also  spent  the  equivalent  of  some  US$200  million  in  its 
war  effort,  nearly  bankrupting  the  already  impoverished  nation. 

As  a  consequence  of  the  debacle  in  the  Chaco,  Bolivia's  army 
became  more  politically  aware  and  ready  to  act  as  an  institution 
in  pursuit  of  its  own  political  goals.  It  began  by  deposing  Daniel 


224 


National  Security 


Salamanca  Urey  (1931-34),  the  elitist  president  who  had  led  the 
country  into  its  disastrous  foreign  war.  For  the  first  time  since  1880, 
the  army  returned  to  power.  Although  both  Bolivia  and  Paraguay 
were  required  by  the  terms  of  the  armistice  to  reduce  their  armies 
to  5,000  men,  Bolivia  circumvented  the  restriction  by  creating  a 
military  police  "legion"  as  an  unofficial  extension  of  the  army. 

After  the  restrictions  of  the  armistice  lapsed  with  the  signing  by 
both  countries  of  a  peace  treaty  in  1938,  Bolivia  built  up  its  bat- 
tered army.  The  army  retained  its  basic  prewar  organization, 
although  units  formerly  assigned  to  the  Chaco  were  necessarily  relo- 
cated. In  an  effort  to  professionalize  the  military,  the  regime  of 
Colonel  David  Toro  Ruilova  (1936-37)  invited  an  Italian  military 
mission  to  establish  two  military  academies  in  Bolivia:  the  Supe- 
rior War  School  (Escuela  Superior  de  Guerra — ESG),  the  former 
CEM  in  La  Paz  for  EMG  officers;  and  the  "Marshal  Jose 
Ballivian"  School  of  Arms  (Escuela  de  Aplicacion  de  Armas 
"Mariscal  Jose  Ballivian" — EAA)  in  Cochabamba,  primarily  for 
junior  officers.  The  new  schools  provided  instruction  for  the  first 
time  in  such  subjects  as  sociology  and  political  science.  Neverthe- 
less, the  Italian  missions,  along  with  other  military  missions  from 
Spain  and  Czechoslovakia  in  the  1920s  and  1930s,  had  little  im- 
pact on  Bolivia's  Armed  Forces  (Fuerzas  Armadas — FF.AA.). 

During  this  period,  Bolivia  and  the  United  States  also  established 
close  military  cooperation  for  the  first  time.  Beginning  in  1941  and 
1942,  United  States  aviation  and  military  missions  were  active  in 
Bolivia,  and  the  country  began  receiving  limited  military  aid  under 
the  wartime  Lend- Lease  Agreement.  The  United  States  air  mis- 
sion reorganized  the  Aviation  Corps  into  the  Bolivian  Air  Force 
(Fuerza  de  Aviacion  Boliviana — FAB),  which  remained  subordinate 
to  the  army. 

Despite  gradual  improvements  in  professional  standards,  the  mili- 
tary remained  a  traditional  institution  for  decades  after  the  Chaco 
War.  The  officer  corps — divided  and  fractionalized  by  interservice 
rivalry,  personal  ambitions,  differing  ideological  and  geographical 
perspectives,  and  generational  differences — was  alternately  domi- 
nated by  reformists  and  conservatives.  The  reformist  military  re- 
gimes of  three  colonels — Toro,  German  Busch  Becerra  (1937-39), 
and  Gualberto  Villarroel  Lopez  (1943-46) — all  contributed  to  the 
polarization  of  the  officer  corps  along  generational  and  ideological 
lines.  The  conservative  business  leaders  who  took  power  in  1946 
attempted  to  reverse  the  trend  of  military  control  of  government 
by  having  military  courts  try  more  than  100  field-grade  and  junior 
officers  for  political  activities  proscribed  by  the  constitution  of  1947; 
many  were  convicted  and  discharged  from  the  army. 


225 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Reorganization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1952-66 

The  1952  Revolution  neutralized  the  army  politically  for  a  dozen 
years  and  redefined  the  military's  role  in  society.  Distrustful  of  the 
army,  Paz  Estenssoro 's  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement 
(Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario — MNR)  government 
(1952-56)  immediately  formed  armed  milicias  populates  (popular 
militias)  composed  of  campesinos,  miners,  and  factory  workers. 
The  militias  in  effect  replaced  the  army  and  by  1953  were  the  stron- 
gest armed  forces  in  the  country.  Instead  of  abolishing  the  army, 
which  the  MNR  leaders  soon  realized  was  indispensable,  the 
government  largely  demobilized  and  reorganized  it.  The  govern- 
ment also  reduced  the  army  in  size  from  approximately  20,000  to 
5,000  members,  downgraded  it  in  status,  and  slashed  the  military 
budget.  In  addition,  the  MNR  imposed  party  control  over  the  army 
by  establishing  celulas  militares  (military  cells)  and  requiring  the  mili- 
tary to  take  an  oath  to  the  party.  Author  Charles  D.  Corbett  esti- 
mates that  no  more  than  300  officers  actually  were  discharged  or 
exiled,  leaving  1,000  officers  in  the  smaller  army.  He  notes, 
however,  that  most  senior  officers  were  purged  from  the  service. 

Paz  Estenssoro  succeeded  in  dominating  the  army,  which  exer- 
cised relatively  little  influence  as  an  independent  political  force. 
It  became  involved  primarily  in  civic-action  projects,  particularly 
in  helping  to  colonize  frontier  areas.  Other  than  establishing  addi- 
tional engineer  units,  the  army  made  little  progress  in  developing 
militarily.  Under  Paz  Estenssoro,  the  defense  budget  fell  from  22 
percent  of  government  expenditures  in  1952  to  6.7  percent  in  1957. 
Although  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government  closed  the  Military  Acad- 
emy for  a  year,  it  kept  open  the  School  of  Arms  and  the  "Marshal 
Andres  de  Santa  Cruz"  Command  and  Staff  School  (Escuela  de 
Comando  y  Estado  Mayor  "Mariscal  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz" — 
EC  EM),  which  had  replaced  the  ESG  in  Cochabamba  in  1950. 
Paz  Estenssoro  also  formally  established  the  "General  Jose  Manuel 
Pando"  School  of  Military  Engineering  (Escuela  de  Ingeniena 
Militar  "General  Jose  Manuel  Pando" — EIM),  which  had  already 
begun  operating  in  La  Paz  in  1950.  In  addition  to  reestablishing 
the  Military  Academy  in  1954,  Bolivia  began  sending  a  few  officers 
to  attend  the  School  of  the  Americas  (Escuela  de  las  Americas)  in 
Panama. 

As  the  army  declined,  the  militias  grew  in  strength.  By  the  end 
of  Paz  Estenssoro's  first  term  in  1956,  the  militias  numbered  be- 
tween 50,000  and  70,000  men.  The  Paz  Estenssoro  government 
also  thoroughly  reorganized  the  police  force,  giving  it  more  respon- 
sibility than  the  military  (see  The  Security  Forces,  this  ch.). 


226 


National  Security 


The  MNR  government  of  Hernan  Siles  Zuazo  (1956-60  and 
1982-85),  uneasy  about  having  to  depend  on  the  goodwill  of  the 
increasingly  militant  militias,  began  rebuilding  the  FF.AA.  with 
the  idea  of  keeping  the  force  subordinate  to  the  civilian  govern- 
ment and  involved  primarily  in  civic-action  projects  (see  Civic  Ac- 
tion, this  ch.).  Historian  Robert  J.  Alexander  cites  two  additional 
reasons  why  the  MNR  government  decided  to  revive  the  military. 
First,  the  government  wanted  to  make  use  of  the  docile  Indians, 
who,  accustomed  to  being  conscripted  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  con- 
tinued to  present  themselves  to  authorities  for  induction.  Second, 
the  government  probably  felt  pressured  by  the  United  States  to 
reestablish  the  regular  armed  forces  and  believed  that  increased 
United  States  economic  aid  was  contingent  on  doing  so.  In  an  ef- 
fort to  ensure  that  the  new  military  would  remain  loyal,  the  civilian 
government  gave  preference  in  command  appointments  and  pro- 
motions to  military  officers  of  known  pro-MNR  sympathies  and 
permitted  members  of  the  lower  class  to  enter  the  Military  Acad- 
emy. As  the  MNR  government  became  increasingly  dependent  on 
the  army  to  control  unrest,  the  military  began  to  acquire  some  po- 
litical influence. 

In  1956  United  States  military  instructors  began  teaching  at  the 
Military  Academy.  With  the  beginning  of  United  States  military 
assistance  to  Bolivia  in  1958,  military  expenditures  rose  sharply 
and  steadily.  The  United  States  also  helped  to  strengthen  the  mili- 
tary with  training  and  technical  assistance.  The  army  created  an 
additional  two  divisions,  raising  the  total  to  eight.  The  FAB,  which 
became  independent  of  the  army  in  1957,  assumed  responsibility 
for  air  defense,  including  the  operation  of  antiaircraft  artillery  units. 

Although  a  landlocked  country,  Bolivia  established  a  nascent 
naval  force  in  the  early  1960s  when  it  acquired  four  patrol  boats 
from  the  United  States.  The  River  and  Lake  Force  (Fuerza  Fluvial 
y  Lacustre)  was  created  in  January  1963  under  the  Ministry  of  Na- 
tional Defense.  It  consisted  of  1,800  personnel  recruited  largely 
from  the  army.  Bolivia's  naval  force  was  rechristened  the  Bolivian 
Naval  Force  (Fuerza  Naval  Boliviana)  in  January  1966,  but  it  also 
has  been  called  the  Bolivian  Navy  (Armada  Boliviana). 

In  his  second  term  (1960-64),  Paz  Estenssoro  continued  the  mili- 
tary buildup  and  made  determined  efforts  to  improve  the  training 
and  equipment  of  the  FF.AA.,  while  preventing  the  militias  from 
rearming.  New  military  schools  helped  to  improve  the  military's 
professional  standards.  The  establishment  of  two  new  military  or- 
ganizations indicated  the  military's  growing  political  influence.  One 
was  the  School  of  High  Military  Studies  (Escuela  de  Altos  Estu- 
dios  Militares — EAEM),  inaugurated  in  1960  to  educate  senior 


227 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

civilian  and  military  leaders  on  strategic  issues  affecting  Bolivia. 
The  EAEM  was  later  renamed  the  School  of  High  National  Studies 
(Escuela  de  Altos  Estudios  Nacionales — EAEN),  or  National  War 
College.  The  other  was  the  Supreme  Council  of  National  Defense 
(Consejo  Supremo  de  Defensa  Nacional — CSDN),  formed  in  1961 
as  ''the  highest  advisory  body  charged  with  problems  of  national 
defense."  According  to  Corbett,  the  Supreme  Council — which  in- 
cluded the  president,  vice  president,  cabinet,  chairmen  of  congres- 
sional committees,  and  the  military  high  command — provided  a 
structure  for  the  FF.AA.  to  present  its  viewpoints  on  any  national 
defense-related  issue. 

By  1964  the  army  had  increased  to  15,000  members,  and  the 
military  budget  had  grown  to  14  percent  of  the  national  budget. 
Although  the  strength  of  the  militias  had  dropped  to  about  16,000 
men  by  early  1963,  the  militias  had  not  been  replaced  by  an  en- 
tirely apolitical  army.  Actually,  by  rebuilding  the  army  Paz  Estens- 
soro  had  unintentionally  strengthened  its  political  role,  for  its 
younger  officers  had  few  personal  ties  with  the  MNR  political 
leadership. 

After  leading  a  successful  military  coup  against  Paz  Estenssoro 
in  November  1964,  FAB  General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno  immedi- 
ately abolished  the  military  cells  that  he,  ironically,  had  headed. 
An  elite  nucleus  of  officers  trained  in  the  career  school  rose  to  power 
along  with  Barrientos  (president,  1964-65;  copresident,  May  1965- 
January  1966;  and  president,  1966-69).  Beginning  with  Barrientos 's 
coup,  the  military  reemerged  as  a  factor  in  Bolivian  politics  and 
would  remain  the  dominant  power  in  government  until  1982. 
Although  still  fractionalized,  it  was  the  strongest  and  most  impor- 
tant institution  in  Bolivia.  The  relative  status  of  the  military  was 
illustrated  by  author  James  Dunkerley's  observation  that  between 
1964  and  1966  the  monthly  pay  of  an  army  lieutenant  rose  to  more 
than  twice  the  average  annual  per  capita  income  (US$120)  and 
quadruple  the  salary  of  the  highest  grade  of  teacher. 

General  Alfredo  Ovando  Candfa  (copresident,  May  1965-January 
1966,  and  president,  January- August  1966  and  1969-70)  became 
the  most  articulate  advocate  of  a  new,  professional  role  for  the  army. 
Ovando  is  generally  credited  with  modernizing  the  military  by 
deemphasizing  its  traditional  role  and  transforming  it  into  an 
instrument  of  development  and  production.  The  Generational 
Group  (Grupo  Generacional),  formed  in  1965  and  consisting  of 
a  few  young,  professionally  oriented,  reform-minded  officers,  also 
advocated  a  nationalistic  program  of  reducing  foreign  influence  in 
Bolivia  and  diversifying  the  economy. 


228 


National  Security 


The  Counterinsurgency  Decade 

Historian  Herbert  S.  Klein  notes  that  a  counterinsurgency  policy 
to  combat  "internal  subversion"  became  a  major  theme  of  United 
States  training  for  the  Bolivian  army.  In  1963  Argentine-trained 
Bolivian  officers  established  the  Center  of  Instruction  for  Special 
Troops  (Centro  de  Instruccion  para  Tropas  Especiales — CITE) 
under  the  Seventh  Division  in  Cochabamba.  In  addition,  by  the 
end  of  1963  Bolivia  had  more  graduates  from  the  United  States 
Army  Special  Warfare  School  at  Fort  Bragg,  North  Carolina,  than 
any  other  Latin  American  country.  A  total  of  659  Bolivian  officers 
received  training  at  the  School  of  the  Americas  in  1962-63,  and 
20  of  the  23  senior  Bolivian  officers  attended  or  visited  the  school 
during  1963-64.  United  States  military  aid  increased  from 
US$100,000  in  1958  to  US$3.2  million  in  1964.  This  aid,  which 
included  weapons  and  training  outside  Bolivia,  enabled  Paz  Estens- 
soro  to  strengthen  the  army  more  extensively  than  MNR  leaders 
originally  had  intended.  According  to  Klein,  Paz  Estenssoro  con- 
stantly justified  rearming  the  military  to  the  United  States  "as  a 
means  of  preventing  communist  subversion." 

In  March  1967,  Bolivia  became  a  prime  target  of  Cuban-supported 
subversion  when  Ernesto  "Che"  Guevara  and  his  tiny  National 
Liberation  Army  (Ejercito  de  Liberation  Nacional — ELN)  launched 
a  guerrilla  campaign.  Despite  its  increased  United  States  training, 
Bolivia's  army  still  consisted  mostiy  of  untrained  Indian  conscripts 
and  had  fewer  than  2,000  troops  ready  for  combat.  Therefore,  while 
the  army  kept  the  40-man  guerrilla  group  contained  in  a  south- 
western area  of  the  country,  an  800-man  Ranger  force  began  training 
in  counterinsurgency  methods.  With  counterinsurgency  instructors 
from  the  United  States  Southern  Command  (Southcom)  headquar- 
ters in  Panama,  the  army  established  a  Ranger  School  in  Santa  Cruz 
Department.  By  late  July  1967,  three  well- trained  and  well-equipped 
Bolivian  Ranger  battalions  were  ready  for  action.  Supported  by  these 
special  troops,  units  of  the  Eighth  Division  closed  in  on  Guevara's 
demoralized,  ill-equipped,  and  poorly  supplied  band.  Guevara's  cap- 
ture and  summary  execution  on  October  7  ended  the  ill-fated, 
Cuban- sponsored  insurgency. 

The  army's  increased  capabilities  and  its  decisive  defeat  of  the 
legendary  Cuban  guerrilla  leader  enhanced  its  prestige.  The  fact 
that  Barrientos's  vice  president,  Luis  Adolfo  Siles  Salinas,  a  con- 
servative civilian,  had  to  request  permission  from  the  military  high 
command  to  assume  his  mandate  after  Barrientos's  death  in  April 
1969  indicated  how  powerful  the  army  had  become  as  an  institu- 
tion. 


229 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Military  Intervention  in  Politics,  1970-85 

Until  1970  reformist  factions  in  the  military  had  remained  small 
and  had  gained  significant  influence  only  during  the  Barrientos 
administration.  By  1970  the  military's  reformist  faction,  the  Gener- 
ational Group,  had  about  100  members,  most  of  them  young 
officers.  Historian  Maria  Luise  Wagner  postulates  that  the  rise  of 
Juan  Jose  Torres  Gonzalez  to  the  presidency  (1970-71)  marked 
the  culmination  of  a  reformist  trend  in  the  FF.AA.  that  had  begun 
in  1936.  The  trend,  however,  reemerged  in  late  1978  when  another 
reformist,  David  Padilla  Arancibia  (1978-79),  who  was  favored 
by  junior  officers,  took  power  (see  Revolutionary  Nationalism: 
Ovando  and  Torres,  ch.  1). 

According  to  Klein,  under  General  Hugo  Banzer  Suarez  (1971  — 
78)  "the  role  of  the  military  was  seen  as  one  of  protection  of  the 
upper  classes  and  their  middle-class  allies,  within  non-democratic 
regimes."  Thus,  military  intervention  was  regarded  as  "a  long- 
term  alternative  to  open  politics."  Although  military  cooperation 
with  the  United  States  grew  considerably  and  the  military  budget 
increased  under  Banzer' s  rule,  the  United  States  suspended  military 
aid  to  Bolivia  in  late  1977  because  of  the  regime's  authoritarianism. 

During  the  Garcia  Meza  regime  (1980-81),  so  many  top  officers 
were  alleged  to  be  involved  in  corruption  and  drug  trafficking  that 
both  foreign  and  Bolivian  officials  called  it  "the  cocaine  govern- 
ment." As  de  facto  president,  Garcia  Meza  angered  many  officers 
by  promoting  a  number  of  undistinguished  colleagues — whose  only 
merit  appeared  to  be  a  record  of  loyalty  to  him — to  top  army  posi- 
tions. Garcia  Meza  resigned  and  left  the  country  in  September  1981 , 
and  the  military  finally  stepped  aside  in  October  1982  to  allow  the 
National  Congress  (hereafter,  Congress)  to  reconvene  and  Siles 
Zuazo  to  begin  serving  out  his  truncated  second  term  as  president 
(October  1982  to  August  1985). 

Three  coup  attempts  against  Siles  Zuazo  by  dissident  officers 
in  June  and  December  1984  and  January  1985  were  thwarted  be- 
cause the  military,  increasingly  commanded  by  younger,  more 
professional  officers,  remained  loyal  to  the  government.  The  mili- 
tary also  honored  the  constitutional  transfer  of  power  to  Paz  Estens- 
soro  in  August  1985  for  a  four-year  term  in  office  (see  Political 
Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

The  Armed  Forces 

Mission  and  Organization 

The  fundamental  mission  of  the  FF.AA.  is  to  defend  and  preserve 
national  independence,  security,  stability,  sovereignty,  and  honor; 
ensure  the  rule  of  the  Constitution;  guarantee  the  stability  of  the 


230 


National  Security 


legally  constituted  government;  and  cooperate  in  the  national  de- 
velopment of  the  country.  According  to  the  1967  Constitution,  mili- 
tary personnel  may  not  deliberate  on  or  perform  any  political  action, 
although  this  provision  was  often  disobeyed  in  the  past.  In  1989 
the  FF.AA. — consisting  of  the  military  high  command  and  the 
army,  air  force,  and  navy — totaled  28,000  members.  Conscripts 
accounted  for  about  19,000  armed  forces  members  (army,  15,000; 
navy,  1,800;  and  FAB,  2,200). 

The  Constitution  makes  the  president  of  the  republic  head  of 
the  military,  with  the  title  of  captain  general  of  the  armed  forces 
(see  fig.  12).  The  president  appoints  the  commander  in  chief  of 
the  FF.AA.,  the  chiefs  of  staff  of  the  three  military  services,  and 
other  commanding  officers.  The  president  also  proposes  military 
promotions  to  Congress.  Operational  command  of  the  FF.AA.  is 
exercised  jointly  by  the  chiefs  of  staff  through  the  Committee  of 
Chiefs  of  Staff,  a  component  of  the  EMG.  Using  other  military- 
related  presidential  powers,  the  president  may  declare — with  the 
approval  of  the  Council  of  Ministers — a  state  of  siege  to  deal  with 
an  emergency  situation,  but  for  a  period  not  to  exceed  ninety  days, 
except  with  the  consent  of  Congress  (see  The  Executive,  ch.  4). 
Under  a  state  of  siege,  the  chief  executive  may  increase  the  FF.AA. , 
call  up  the  reserves,  collect  taxes,  or  negotiate  loans.  In  1986  the 
Paz  Estenssoro  government  declared  a  state  of  siege  to  counter 
strikes  by  mineworkers  and  teachers;  Congress  approved  a  ninety- 
day  extension.  President  Jaime  Paz  Zamora  (1989-  )  gave  orders 
to  the  FF.AA.,  on  administrative  matters  only,  through  the  minister 
of  national  defense  (for  the  army,  navy,  and  air  force).  Headed 
by  the  president,  the  CSDN  also  serves  as  a  body  through  which 
senior  military  officers  advise  the  president  and  cabinet  on  national 
security  matters. 

Another  national  security  decisionmaking  body,  the  National 
Security  Council  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Seguridad — Conase),  was 
under  the  EMG.  In  early  1989,  Conase  was  directed  by  a  general, 
who  headed  its  Permanent  Secretariat  (Secretario  Permanente). 

Under  the  Paz  Zamora  government,  the  minister  of  national 
defense  was  responsible  for  administrative  supervision  of  the  FF.AA. 
On  technical  matters  and  in  the  event  of  war,  the  military  receives 
orders  through  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  FF.AA.,  a  position 
that  has  been  rotated  among  the  three  services  every  two  years. 
Each  service  is  headed  by  a  commander,  aided  by  a  chief  of  staff 
(Jefe  del  Estado  Mayor)  and  an  inspector  general. 

In  November  1988,  the  military  was  pressing  for  constitutional 
reforms,  involving  nonmilitary  as  well  as  specifically  military  pro- 
visions. Proposals  included  defining  the  armed  forces  as  "the 


231 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


SUPREME  COUNCIL 
OF  NATIONAL  DEFENSE 
(CSDN)2 


AIR 
FORCE 
(FAB)4 

1 

TASK 
FORCE 

  i 

STAFF 
(ESTADO 
MAYOR) 

AIR 
BRIGADES 

(13) 


AIR 
GROUPS 
(13) 


PRESIDENT 
(CAPTAIN  GENERAL 
OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES) 
(FF.AA.)  1 


MINISTER  OF 
NATIONAL 
DEFENSE 


COMMANDER 
IN  CHIEF,  FF.AA. 


GENERAL  STAFF 
(ESTADO  MAYOR 

GENERAL) 
HEADED  BY  CHIEF 
OF  STAFF 


NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
COUNCIL 
(Conase)3 


ARMY 


STAFF 
(ESTADO 
MAYOR) 


STAFF 
(ESTADO 
MAYOR) 


MILITARY 
REGIONS 

(6) 


MILITARY 
DIVISIONS 

(10) 


NAVAL 
DISTRICTS 

(5) 


Fuerzas  Armadas. 

Consejo  Supremo  de  Defensa  Nacional. 


1  FF.AA 

2  CSDN 

3  Conase  --  Consejo  Nacional  de  Seguridad 

4  FAB  --  Fuerza  de  Aviacion  Boliviana. 


Figure  12.  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1989 


fundamental  institution  of  the  state,  charged  with  the  mission  of 
preserving  Bolivia's  national  independence,  sovereignty  and  honor, 
territorial  integrity,  peace,  and  internal  and  external  security; 
guaranteeing  the  stability  of  the  legally  constituted  government; 
and  cooperating  in  the  integral  development  of  the  country."  Sev- 
eral leading  politicians  saw  the  reference  to  the  internal  security 
role  as  a  backdoor  attempt  to  reintroduce  the  national  security  doc- 
trine that  they  claimed  inspired  most  of  the  military  coups. 


232 


National  Security 


The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  was  organized  into  a  minis- 
terial cabinet  (gabinete  ministerial)  headed  by  the  minister  of  national 
defense.  Within  the  ministry  were  five  general  directorates:  ad- 
ministration and  budgets,  logistics,  territory,  planning,  and  inter- 
nal management  control.  In  addition  to  the  directorates  were  the 
Subsecretariat  of  Maritime  Interests,  the  National  Directorate  of 
Civil  Defense,  six  military  regions,  and  sixteen  dependency  di- 
visions. 

Army 

The  army  had  a  reported  20,200  members  in  1989,  including 
some  15,000  conscripts.  Its  equipment  consisted  mainly  of  light 
tanks,  armored  personnel  carriers,  towed  artillery,  and  recoilless 
rifles  (see  table  16,  Appendix). 

There  were  six  military  regions  (regiones  militares — RMs)  in  the 
army.  RM  1,  headquartered  in  La  Paz,  encompassed  most  of  La 
Paz  Department.  RM  2,  headquartered  in  Sucre,  included  Cocha- 
bamba  Department  and  most  of  Chuquisaca  Department.  RM  3, 
based  in  Tarija,  consisted  of  Tarija  Department  and  eastern  Chu- 
quisaca and  Santa  Cruz  departments.  RM  4,  headquartered  in 
Potosf,  covered  Oruro  and  Potosf  departments.  RM  5,  based  in 
Trinidad,  contained  most  of  Santa  Cruz  and  Beni  departments. 
RM  6,  based  in  Cobija,  encompassed  Pando  Department  and  parts 
of  La  Paz  and  Beni  departments. 

The  army  was  organized  into  ten  divisions  consisting  of  eight 
cavalry  regiments:  five  horse  units,  two  motorized  units,  and  one 
assault  group;  one  motorized  infantry  regiment  with  two  battal- 
ions; twenty- two  infantry  battalions,  including  five  infantry  assault 
battalions;  three  artillery  ''regiments"  (battalions);  five  artillery 
batteries,  including  the  Artillery  and  Antiair  Defense  Group  (Grupo 
de  Artilleria  y  Defensa  Antiaerea — GAD  A);  one  paratroop  bat- 
talion; and  six  engineer  battalions.  These  units  included  two  armed 
battalions,  one  mechanized  cavalry  regiment,  and  one  Presiden- 
tial Guard  (Colorado)  infantry  regiment  under  direct  control  of 
the  army  headquarters  in  the  Miraflores  district  of  La  Paz. 

Division  headquarters  were  located  in  Cochabamba  (the  largest), 
Camiri  (Santa  Cruz  Department),  Oruro,  Potosf,  Riberalta  (Beni 
Department),  Robore  (Santa  Cruz  Department),  Santa  Cruz, 
Trinidad,  Viacha  (La  Paz  Department),  and  Villamontes  (Tarija 
Department).  In  1987,  however,  the  Ninth  Division  was  established 
in  Rurrenabaque  in  General  Jose  Ballivian  Province  of  Beni  Depart- 
ment. Each  of  the  divisions,  with  the  exception  of  Viacha,  occupied 
a  region  generally  corresponding  to  the  administrative  departments, 
with  some  overlapping. 


233 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  town  of  Riberalta  had  three  military  bases.  Two  new  bases 
were  under  construction  in  1989  at  Puerto  Rico,  near  Riberalta, 
and  at  Porvenir,  near  the  Brazilian  border.  Others,  including  those 
in  Riberalta  and  at  the  departmental  capital  of  Trinidad,  were  being 
modernized. 

The  FF.AA.  in  the  late  1980s  continued  to  be  incapable  of  ade- 
quately defending  the  country's  extensive  borders  with  Argentina, 
Brazil,  Chile,  Peru,  and  Paraguay.  If  attacked,  Bolivia  would  have 
to  seek  assistance  from  friendly  states.  It  was  a  member  of  the  Inter- 
American  Defense  Board  and  a  signatory  of  the  Inter- American 
Treaty  for  Reciprocal  Assistance  of  1947  (also  known  as  the  Rio 
Treaty).  Although  no  major  border  conflict  had  occurred  since  the 
Chaco  War,  Conase  was  concerned  that  all  of  Bolivia's  contigu- 
ous neighbors  had  geopolitical  objectives  that  threatened  Bolivia's 
territorial  integrity.  The  intentions  of  Brazil  and  Chile  were  par- 
ticularly worrisome  to  Conase. 

Navy 

Bolivia  had  a  small  navy,  which  in  1989  had  approximately  3,800 
personnel,  including  2,000  naval  infantry  personnel  and  marines, 
as  well  as  about  1 ,800  conscripts.  The  navy's  small  motor  launches 
operated  mainly  on  Lake  Titicaca  and  the  numerous  navigable 
rivers  of  the  sparsely  populated  northeastern  portion  of  the  coun- 
try. The  navy's  riverine  patrol  duties  included  dislodging  Brazilian 
and  other  foreign  gold  miners  and  interdicting  smugglers  of  nar- 
cotics and  contraband.  Its  areas  of  operation  were  divided  into  five 
(or  possibly  six)  naval  districts — Lake  Titicaca,  Rio  Beni,  Rio 
Madre  de  Dios,  Rio  Mamore,  and  Rio  Paraguay — each  with  one 
flotilla.  The  five  naval  headquarters  were  located  in  Guaqui  (on 
Lake  Titicaca' s  southern  shore),  Puerto  Guayaramerin  (on  Rio 
Mamore),  Puerto  Suarez,  Riberalta,  and  San  Pedro  de  Tiquina 
(on  Lake  Titicaca' s  eastern  shore).  Other  bases  were  in  Puerto 
Busch,  Puerto  Horquilla,  Puerto  Villarroel  (on  Rio  Ichilo), 
Trinidad,  and  Rurrenabaque.  The  '  'Admiral  Grau"  Marine  In- 
fantry Battalion  (Batallon  de  Infanterfa  de  Marina  "Almirante 
Grau")  was  based  at  the  Fourth  Naval  District,  Titicaca,  in 
Tiquina. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  navy  had  several  dozen  boats  in  service, 
including  about  ten  river  patrol  craft.  It  received  its  first  United 
States-built,  river-patrol  launch,  the  twenty-meter  Santa  Cruz  de  la 
Sierra,  in  1985.  In  1986  the  navy  acquired  nineteen  outboard  motors 
for  its  five-  and  six-meter  patrol  boats,  effectively  doubling  its  recon- 
naissance capability.  Bolivia's  only  seagoing  vessel,  the  Libertador 
Bolivar,  was  normally  docked  at  Rosario  on  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  in 


234 


La  Paz  as  seen  from  El  Alto 
Courtesy  Harvey  W.  Reed 


Argentina  and  was  used  to  and  from  Bolivian  free  zones  in  Argen- 
tina and  Uruguay.  The  navy  also  had  two  Cessna  aircraft  (see 
table  18,  Appendix). 

Air  Force 

In  1989  FAB  encompassed  about  4,000  personnel  (including 
about  2,200  conscripts).  Its  equipment  comprised  forty-five  com- 
bat aircraft  and  ten  armed  helicopters  (see  table  19,  Appendix). 
Although  FAB's  aircraft  were  mostiy  of  West  European,  Brazilian, 
and  United  States  manufacture,  in  late  1988  the  government  was 
considering  the  purchase  of  Soviet  cargo  aircraft  and  helicopters. 

FAB  was  under  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  (it  had  been 
under  the  Ministry  of  Aeronautics  from  1980  to  the  Paz  Zamora 
administration).  FAB  was  organized  into  three  air  brigades  with 
thirteen  subordinate  air  groups.  Its  nine  air  bases  were  located 
at  La  Paz,  Cochabamba,  Santa  Cruz,  Puerto  Suarez,  Tarija,  Vil- 
lamontes,  Cobija,  Riberalta,  and  Robore.  Major  brigade  com- 
mands included  the  First  Air  Brigade  (La  Paz),  Second  Air  Brigade 
(Cochabamba),  Third  Air  Brigade  (Santa  Cruz),  and  Fourth  Air 
Brigade  (also  called  the  Amazonas  Air  Brigade),  created  in  1987 
and  headquartered  in  the  Puerto  Suarez  area  bordering  Brazil.  The 
First  Air  Brigade  comprised  the  Air  Fighters  Group  (Grupo  Aereo 
Cazador — GAC)  31,  Air  Transport  Groups  (Grupos  Aereos  de 
Transporte)  71  and  72,  and  the  National  Service  of  Photogrammetry 


235 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

(Servicio  National  de  Aerofotogrametrfa — SNA).  GAC-31  received 
the  first  six  of  eighteen  T-33A  fighter  aircraft  from  the  United  States 
in  1985.  The  Second  Air  Brigade  included  Cover  Air  Groups  41, 
51 ,  and  52.  The  Salvage  and  Rescue  Air  Group  51  (Grupo  Aereo 
de  Salvataje  y  Rescate  51 — GASR-51)  was  created  in  1984, 
although  predecessor  units  had  operated  since  1960.  A  similar  unit, 
called  the  Search  and  Rescue  Group  52  (Grupo  Aereo  de  Biisqueda 
y  Rescate  52— GABR-52)  was  established  in  Cobija  in  1987.  The 
Third  Air  Brigade  consisted  of  Hunter  Air  Groups  32,  33,  and  34, 
and  Training  Air  Groups  (Grupos  Aereos  de  Entrenamiento — 
GAE)  21  and  22.  GAE-21,  which  trained  cadets  of  the  Colmilav, 
acquired  six  T-23  Uirapuru  trainer  aircraft  from  Brazil  and  twelve 
Cessna  A-152  Aerobat  aircraft  and  three  ATC-710  flight  simula- 
tors from  the  United  States  in  1986.  FAB  also  had  Tactical  Air 
Groups  (Grupos  Aereos  Tacticos)  61  (in  Robore),  62,  and  63  (in 
Villamontes);  the  Group  of  Security  and  Defense  of  Air  Installa- 
tions (Grupo  de  Seguridad  y  Defensa  de  Instalaciones  Aereas — 
GSDIA);  and  GADA-91,  GADA-92,  and  GADA-93.  In  March 
1989,  FAB  took  a  major  step  toward  modernizing  its  force  by  in- 
augurating the  General  Command  Systems  Department  in  La  Paz, 
equipped  with  sophisticated  computers. 

Civil  Aeronautics 

The  General  Directorate  of  Civil  Aeronautics  (Direction  General 
de  Aeronautica  Civil — DGAC),  under  the  direction  of  FAB  (and 
formerly  the  Ministry  of  Aeronautics  as  well),  administered  a  civil 
aeronautics  school,  the  National  Institute  of  Civil  Aeronautics  (In- 
stituto  National  de  Aeronautica  Civil — INAC),  and  two  commer- 
cial air  transport  services:  Military  Air  Transports  (Transportes 
Aereos  Militares — TAM)  and  Bolivian  Air  Transports  (Transportes 
Aereos  Bolivianos — TAB).  The  ministry  also  controlled  the  allo- 
cation of  a  large  number  of  small  civil  aircraft  acquired  by  FAB 
since  the  approval  in  late  1986  of  the  law  on  seizure  of  aircraft  not 
registered  at  the  ministry.  INAC,  which  was  headquartered  in  the 
Miraflores  district  of  La  Paz,  graduated  eleven  new  commercial 
pilots,  sixteen  maintenance  technicians,  and  three  FAB  navigators 
in  1986. 

The  transport  service  unit,  which  FAB  refers  to  as  TAM  Group 
71,  has  been  a  part  of  FAB  since  1945.  TAM's  inventory  in  the 
mid-1980s  totaled  148  aircraft.  Its  commercial  passenger  flights  to 
remote  parts  of  Bolivia  played  a  key  role  in  unifying  the  country. 
TAM  was  commanded  by  the  chief  of  TAM  Group  7 1 . 

The  other  civil  transport  airline,  TAB,  was  created  as  a  decen- 
tralized company  of  FAB  in  1977.  Subordinate  to  the  Air  Transport 


236 


National  Security 


Management  (Gerencia  de  Transportes  Aereos),  TAB  was  headed 
by  an  FAB  general.  As  a  charter  airline  for  transporting  heavy 
cargoes,  TAB  linked  Bolivia  with  most  countries  of  the  Western 
Hemisphere;  its  inventory  included  a  fleet  of  Hercules  C-130  air- 
craft. TAB's  base  of  operations  was  headquartered  in  the  FAB  gar- 
rison of  El  Alto,  adjacent  to  La  Paz's  international  airport.  TAB's 
most  frequent  route  was  to  Miami  and  Houston,  with  stops  in 
Panama. 

Other  civil  air  functions  of  FAB  or  DGAC  included  operating 
rescue  and  airport  security  units.  In  1986  the  DGAC  was  study- 
ing the  reactivation  of  the  Air  Rescue  Service  (Servicio  Aereo  de 
Rescate — SAR),  which  was  apparently  separate  from  FAB's 
GASR-51.  The  Airport  Security  (Seguridad  de  Aeropuertos)  or- 
ganization was  created  under  FAB  in  1987  to  provide  security  at 
airport  terminals.  Under  the  new  organization,  personnel  from 
FAB,  the  Administration  of  Airports  and  Aerial  Navigation  Auxi- 
liary Services  (Administration  de  Aeropuertos  y  Servicios  Auxiliares 
de  la  Navegacion  Aerea — AASANA),  and  the  Military  Police 
provided  security  at  each  airport. 

Civic  Action 

The  three  military  services  contributed  significantly  to  the  na- 
tional welfare  by  performing  various  civic  action  functions  through- 
out the  country.  These  included  constructing  roads,  airstrips, 
agricultural  and  industrial  works,  and  schools;  clearing  land  for 
colonization  in  eastern  Bolivia;  conducting  literacy  campaigns;  and 
providing  medical  services  to  the  civilian  population  living  in  the 
vicinity  of  bases.  During  his  second  term  (1960-64),  Paz  Estens- 
soro  gave  the  military  an  important  role  in  social  and  economic 
development  through  the  Civic  Action  Program,  which  the  United 
States  introduced  in  Bolivia.  For  example,  the  military  began  paving 
the  Cochabamba- Santa  Cruz  highway,  which  opened  up  the  fer- 
tile areas  of  eastern  Bolivia  to  colonization.  Although  scanty  financ- 
ing limited  the  army's  contribution  to  economic  development,  in 
the  mid-1980s  almost  all  of  the  army's  engineer  units  were  engaged 
in  civil  engineering  works,  such  as  the  construction  of  roads  and 
bridges. 

FAB's  two  civil  transport  airlines — TAM  and  TAB — played  a 
major  role  in  civic  action  programs.  TAM  provided  low-cost  air 
services  to  the  country's  many  remote  areas,  which  were  accessi- 
ble only  by  air  but  could  not  be  served  regularly  and  economically 
on  a  commercial  basis.  TAB  also  provided  air  support  during 
natural  disasters,  in  coordination  with  the  Bolivian  Red  Cross  and 
Civil  Defense,  by  delivering  food  supplies.  In  early  1989,  Bolivia 


237 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

purchased  a  Spanish  CASA  212-M  aircraft  specifically  for  civil 
defense  missions  by  the  army  and  navy.  The  navy  provided  mo- 
bile medical  clinics  on  the  country's  extensive  navigable  lake  and 
river  system  and  carried  out  comprehensive  hydrological  and  hydro- 
graphic  work  and  fisheries  research,  principally  in  the  waters  of 
Lake  Titicaca.  Because  of  the  need  for  river  bridges  and  maps, 
as  well  as  flood-control  studies,  in  1964  the  navy  created  the  Naval 
Hydrography  Service  of  Bolivia  (Servicio  de  Hidrograffa  Naval  de 
Bolivia).  In  March  1989,  the  Bolivian  Shipping  Company  (Empresa 
Naviera  Boliviana — Enabol)  delivered  a  new  vessel  to  the  navy  for 
use  in  health  and  other  civic  action  projects  in  Bolivia's  eastern 
lowlands. 

Defense  Budget 

Data  on  the  Bolivian  defense  budgets  varied  widely  in  the  late 
1980s.  According  to  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies, 
the  1988  defense  budget  was  US$87  million.  According  to  the 
United  States  government's  The  World  Factbook,  1989,  however, 
the  military  budget  in  1988  was  US$158.6  million.  These  figures 
were  considerably  higher  than  press  reports  that  the  defense  budget 
fell  from  US$130  million  in  1985  to  US$94  million  in  1986  but 
rose  to  roughly  US$100  million  in  1988. 

Despite  a  warning  by  the  FF.AA.  commander  that  a  cut  in  the 
1988  funds  would  endanger  Bolivian  security  and  sovereignty,  the 
Paz  Estenssoro  government  reportedly  earmarked  only  about 
US$98  million  for  the  1988  military  budget.  After  meeting  with 
the  FF.AA.  commander  in  July  1988,  however,  Paz  Estenssoro 
ordered  the  minister  of  finance  to  give  priority  to  the  armed  forces 
budget.  The  minister  of  national  defense  subsequentiy  reported  that 
the  problem  of  military  budget  cuts  had  been  overcome,  mainly 
as  a  result  of  US$5  million  in  aid  provided  by  the  United  States, 
and  that  FF.AA.  personnel  had  received  salary  increases. 

Manpower  and  Training 

Conscription 

Since  1904  military  service  has  been  compulsory  for  all  fit  males 
between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  forty-nine.  In  practice,  however, 
budgetary  limitations  strictly  limited  the  number  of  eligible  men 
conscripted,  and  those  traditionally  tended  to  be  mostly  Indians. 
Beginning  in  1967,  conscripts  were  legally  held  on  active  duty  for 
up  to  two  years,  but  funds  seldom  permitted  even  a  full  year's  ser- 
vice. Noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  and  warrant  officers,  all 
of  whom  were  volunteers,  generally  were  drawn  from  mixed-blood 


238 


National  Security 


cholos  (see  Mestizos  and  Cholos,  ch.  2).  In  the  late  1980s,  the  ser- 
vice obligation  was  one  year,  and  conscripts  had  to  be  at  least 
nineteen  years  of  age.  The  FF.AA.  commander  reported  in  early 
1989  that  the  largest  percentage  of  conscripts  came  from  the  mid- 
dle class.  One  explanation  for  this  change  could  have  been  the  flock- 
ing of  youths  to  the  lucrative  coca  paste-making  business.  Military 
authorities  in  the  Cochabamba  area  in  particular  began  to  ex- 
perience growing  difficulty  in  enlisting  volunteers  in  the  mid-1980s. 
Consequently,  the  military  reportedly  was  resorting  to  press-ganging 
eighteen-year-olds  off  the  city  streets  to  fill  their  annual  quotas. 

Ranks,  Uniforms,  and  Insignia 

The  rank  structure  of  the  FF.AA.  was  conventional  and  con- 
formed to  the  pattern  of  the  United  States  services,  although  minor 
variations  reflected  disparities  in  force  levels.  The  army  had  nine 
officer  ranks,  ranging  from  second  lieutenant  to  three  general  officer 
ranks:  general  de  brigada  (brigadier  general);  general  de  division  (divi- 
sion general),  which  was  equivalent  to  a  United  States  major  general 
or  lieutenant  general;  and  general  de  fuerza  (force  general),  whose 
United  States  counterpart  was  general.  The  rank  general  de  division 
was  usually  reserved  for  the  FF.AA.  commander  and  the  minister 
of  national  defense,  if  the  latter  was  a  military  officer,  as  well  as 
the  army  commander  and  president  of  the  Supreme  Tribunal  of 
Military  Justice  (Tribunal  Supremo  de  Justicia  Militar). 

Promotion  from  second  lieutenant  to  first  lieutenant,  and  from 
the  latter  to  captain  were  made  almost  automatically  after  four  years 
in  each  grade.  Subsequent  promotions  were  influenced  greatly  by 
completion  of  schooling,  types  of  assignments,  and  performance 
ratings.  Requirements  included  command  of  a  unit,  frontier  ser- 
vice, and  seniority.  For  promotion  to  major,  lieutenant  colonel, 
and  colonel,  five  years  in  each  grade  were  required.  The  Senate 
could  veto  a  promotion  to  colonel  or  general.  Army  warrant  officers 
and  enlisted  personnel  ranged  from  private  first  class  to  sergeant 
major. 

FAB's  nine  officer  ranks  went  from  subteniente  de  aviacion  (second 
lieutenant)  to  general  de  fuerza  aerea  (general).  FAB's  nine  enlisted 
ranks  began  with  the  equivalent  of  airman  basic  and  airman  and 
ended  with  the  equivalent  of  chief  master  sergeant. 

The  navy's  ten  officer  ranks  ranged  from  alferez  (ensign)  to 
almirante  (admiral),  equivalent  to  a  United  States  vice  admiral.  Naval 
warrant  officers  and  enlisted  personnel  had  ten  ranks,  from  the 
equivalent  of  seaman  recruit  to  fleet  force  master  chief  petty  officer. 

Insignia  of  rank  conformed  to  the  designs  adopted  in  1968 
by  the  Central  American  Defense  Council  (Consejo  de  Defensa 


239 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Centroamericano — Condeca).  The  commissioned  officers'  rank  in- 
signia for  the  three  services  were  as  follows:  the  army  had  silver 
stars  on  a  blue  background  with  a  red  border  for  the  equivalent 
of  second  lieutenant  through  captain,  silver  stars  on  a  red  stripe 
with  a  blue  background  for  major  through  colonel,  and  gold  stars 
on  a  gold  stripe  with  a  red  background  for  generals;  FAB  had  gold 
stars  for  second  lieutenant  through  colonel  and  gold  stars  on  a  gold 
background  for  general  officers;  and  the  navy  had  traditional  gold 
stripes  on  the  lower  sleeve.  Enlisted  personnel  of  all  three  services 
wore  the  following:  the  army  had  silver  bars  or  stripes;  the  navy 
had  red  or  gold  stripes  or  gold  bars;  and  FAB  had  a  blue  bar  or 
gold  stripes  (see  fig.  13;  fig.  14). 

The  military  uniforms  varied  depending  on  climate  and  use — 
field,  daily  service,  semidress,  parade,  ceremonial,  and  dress.  Uni- 
forms for  army  officers,  NCOs,  and  enlisted  personnel  were  gener- 
ally gray  or,  for  tropical  areas,  gray- green  khaki.  Naval  uniforms 
for  officers  and  NCOs  were  beige  for  cold  climates,  khaki  for  tem- 
perate areas,  and  white  for  lowland  regions.  Enlisted  personnel  wore 
the  traditional  blues  and  whites;  their  uniforms  included  a  blue 
wool  fatigue  for  cold  climates  and  khaki  or  white  uniforms  for  trop- 
ical areas,  and  black  shoes.  Officers  and  enlisted  personnel  in  FAB 
wore  blue  squadron  caps  and  blue  uniforms  for  cold  climates,  and 
they  wore  khaki  with  blue  garrison  caps  for  tropical  climates. 
Officers  wore  gray,  green,  or  orange  flight  suits;  enlisted  person- 
nel wore  orange  or  green  flight  suits. 

Military  Schools 

Bolivia's  military  schools,  with  one  exception,  operated  under 
the  direction  of  a  colonel  who  occupied  the  position  of  director  of 
military  institutes  on  the  army's  Estado  Mayor  (Staff).  Through 
the  Estado  Mayor's  National  Directorate  of  Instruction  and  Teach- 
ing (Direccion  Nacional  de  Instruction  y  Ensenanza),  the  direc- 
tor administered  the  school  system  from  the  army  headquarters 
compound  in  La  Paz's  Miraflores  district.  The  principal  officer 
school  complex  was  located  in  Cochabamba,  however,  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Seventh  Airborne  Division  commander. 

Most  officers  of  the  three  services  attended  a  five-year  basic  train- 
ing course  at  the  "Colonel  Gualberto  Villarroel"  Army  Military 
Academy  (Colegio  Militar  del  Ejercito  "Coronel  Gualberto  Vil- 
larroel"— CME)  in  Irpavi,  a  valley  suburb  of  La  Paz.  Officers  iden- 
tified with  their  Military  Academy  classes  (promociones)  through- 
out their  military  careers.  To  gain  admittance,  an  applicant  had 
to  be  Bolivian;  single;  a  secondary  school  graduate  (or  pass  a  writ- 
ten examination  with  a  high  score);  and  under  twenty  years  of  age. 


240 


National  Security 


The  applicant  also  had  to  produce  a  health  document,  certificates 
of  good  moral  character  from  both  the  national  police  and  the  local 
police,  and  a  recommendation  from  a  "responsible  sponsor."  Every 
December  the  school  graduated  about  ninety-five  cadets,  who  were 
commissioned  as  second  lieutenants  or  ensigns. 

After  a  period  of  serving  in  units,  Military  Academy  graduates 
proceeded  to  the  specialist  schools  of  their  respective  arms  and  ser- 
vices. Company-grade  officers  underwent  a  basic  six-month  course 
at  the  FF.AA.'s  School  of  Arms  in  Cochabamba.  After  another 
year  with  a  unit,  they  were  required  to  attend  a  ten-month  advanced 
course  at  this  school.  Army  schools  also  included  the  Army  Artil- 
lery School  (Escuela  de  Artillena  del  Ejercito— EAE)  and  the  EC 
in  Cochabamba.  The  EC's  three-year  course  graduated  hardy  and 
disciplined  troops  for  crisis  situations.  NCOs  generally  did  not  play 
any  political  role.  Special  Forces  training  for  select  members  of  all 
three  services  was  given  at  the  Army  Condors  School  (Escuela  de 
Condores  del  Ejercito — ECE)  in  Sanandita,  Tarija  Department. 
Engineer  officers  in  all  three  services,  after  three  years  of  unit 
experience,  enrolled  in  a  five-year  professional  course  at  the  EIM 
in  La  Paz. 

For  promotion  to  field  grade  or  for  staff  appointments,  an  officer 
had  to  graduate  from  the  appropriate  two-year  courses  of  the  EC  EM 
in  Cochabamba.  Since  the  school's  inauguration  in  1950,  ECEM 
graduates  who  met  certain  other  requirements  were  awarded  the 
title  of  staff  graduate  (diplomado  de  estado  mayor — DEM),  were  enti- 
tled to  use  DEM  following  their  rank,  and  became  eligible  for  cer- 
tain key  positions.  The  coveted  title  was  required  for  command 
of  tactical  units  or  service  on  the  Staff.  Officers  who  had  served 
at  least  two  years  as  captains  and  received  the  top  rating  of  "very 
good"  from  the  School  of  Arms  could  apply  to  enroll  in  the  two- 
year  ECEM  course. 

After  spending  a  period  with  a  unit,  an  ECEM  graduate  could 
enroll  in  a  nine-  to  twelve-month  course  at  the  National  War  Col- 
lege (EAEN),  the  only  military  school  not  under  the  director  of 
military  institutes.  Distinguished  civilians,  such  as  lawyers  and 
university  professors,  with  an  interest  in  national  security  affairs 
could  also  enroll.  Military  graduates  of  the  EAEN  course  were 
awarded  the  prestigious  title  of  graduate  of  high  national  studies 
(diplomado  de  altos  estudios  nacionales — DAEN),  whose  initials  replaced 
the  staff  designation  of  DEM.  Few  officers  were  promoted  to  colonel 
without  having  completed  the  EAEN  course,  a  prerequisite  for  pro- 
motion to  general  officer.  (President  Torres  worsened  his  strained 
relations  with  the  army  by  appointing,  as  army  chief  of  staff,  a 
young  reformist  officer  who  had  not  graduated  from  the  EAEN 


241 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


242 


National  Security 


course.)  Every  year  Bolivia  also  sent  officers  on  training  scholar- 
ships (becas)  abroad,  usually  to  Argentina,  Brazil,  Peru,  or  the 
United  States. 

Air  force  officers  completed  the  five-year  course  of  the  Military 
Academy  in  La  Paz  before  being  commissioned  into  FAB  with  a 
rank  equivalent  to  second  lieutenant.  Officer  pilots  then  transferred 
to  the  flying  school  in  Santa  Cruz  for  specialist  training.  Since  1955 
FAB's  aeronautical  training  institute  had  been  the  Colmilav  in  El 
Trompillo,  Santa  Cruz  Department.  Colmilav  included  primary 
and  basic  training  squadrons.  Graduates  of  Colmilav  were  promoted 
to  second  lieutenant.  The  Colmilav  student  body  totaled  about  300 
cadets  in  1988.  Fewer  than  half  of  the  100  cadets  who  enrolled  every 
year  succeeded  in  graduating. 

FAB's  first  aerotechnical  training  school  was  the  Polytechnical 
Military  School  of  Aeronautics  (Politecnico  Militar  de  Aeronautica — 
PMA),  established  in  1953  and  based  in  Cochabamba  since  Janu- 
ary 1987.  The  PMA  graduated  aviation  technicians  with  the  rank 
of  first- sergeant  technicians  (sargentos  primeros  tecnicos).  Its  Febru- 
ary 1986  graduating  class  totaled  thirty-five  members.  In  January 
1986,  the  Technical  Training  School  of  the  Air  Force  (Escuela  de 
Capacitacion  Tecnica  de  la  Fuerza  Aerea — ECT)  was  founded  at 
El  Alto  Air  Base  outside  La  Paz.  FAB  officers  received  additional 
mid-career,  postgraduate  training  at  the  EC  EM  in  Cochabamba. 
The  "General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno"  Air  War  School  (Escuela 
de  Guerra  Aerea  "General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno" — EGA), 
which  was  inaugurated  in  1973  for  postgraduate  studies,  offered 
a  command  and  staff  course  and,  since  February  1986,  an  air  squad- 
ron course.  A  FAB  group  commander  who  used  the  title  of  gradu- 
ate of  aerial  military  studies  (diplomado  de  estudios  militares  aereos — 
DEM  A)  after  his  rank  probably  graduated  from  the  EGA  or  EAEN. 
Many  FAB  officers  also  pursued  additional  courses  of  study  abroad. 

Bolivia  had  several  naval  schools.  An  Argentine  naval  mission 
assisted  in  the  creation  of  two  naval  schools  located  in  Tiquina: 
the  Naval  Military  School  (Escuela  Naval  Militar — ENM),  estab- 
lished in  1973  and  attended  by  officers  attached  to  the  CME  in 
Irpavi;  and  the  "Dr.  Ladislao  Cabrera  Vargas"  Naval  Staff  College 
(Escuela  de  Estado  Mayor  Naval  "Dr.  Ladislao  Cabrera  Vargas" — 
EEMN),  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Naval  War  College,  for  com- 
manding officers  (jefes)  and  regular  officers,  which  opened  in  1970. 
Other  naval  schools  included  the  Littoral  Naval  School  (Escuela 
de  Marinena  Litoral — EML)  in  Trinidad,  the  Naval  Technical 
School  (Escuela  Tecnica  Naval— ETN)  for  NCOs,  and  the  Naval 
Application  School  (Escuela  de  Aplicacion  Naval — EAN)  for 


243 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


244 


National  Security 


subaltern  officers.  Naval  personnel  also  continued  to  receive  part 
of  their  training  in  Argentina. 

Military  Justice 

As  revised  by  the  Banzer  government,  the  1978  Penal  Code  de- 
fined and  established  military  jurisdiction  over  actions  against  the 
security  of  the  state  and  against  military  personnel  and  property. 
It  also  established  the  military  court  system.  The  members  of  the 
FF.  AA.  are  subject  to  certain  military  laws  and  regulations,  which 
include  the  special  Military  Criminal  Code  and  the  Code  of  Crimi- 
nal Military  Procedure.  The  Military  Criminal  Code  establishes 
the  death  penalty  for  treason  in  its  various  forms,  including  dis- 
loyalty and  espionage.  FF.AA.  members  who  commit  criminal  acts 
in  the  exercise  of  their  specific  functions  are  subject,  depending 
on  the  nature  of  the  offense,  to  military  tribunals,  which  include 
disciplinary  tribunals  and  courts  of  first  instance,  courts  of  appeal, 
and  courts  of  nullity,  without  the  intervention  of  the  Supreme 
Tribunal  of  Military  Justice. 

Military  justice  matters  are  adjudicated  by  the  Permanent 
Tribunal  of  Military  Justice  and,  in  the  highest  instance,  by  the 
Supreme  Tribunal  of  Military  Justice,  both  of  which  were  headed 
by  generals  in  the  late  1980s.  Some  military  cases  may  be  adjudi- 
cated by  civilian  courts  once  the  defendants  have  been  expelled  from 
the  FF.AA.  For  example,  a  group  of  five  army  officers,  headed 
by  the  commander  of  the  Seventh  Division  in  Cochabamba,  was 
dishonorably  discharged  from  the  army  in  October  1 988  after  being 
caught  protecting  drug  traffickers.  Their  case  was  turned  over  to 
civilian  authorities  three  months  later.  In  wartime,  however,  the 
military  court  has  jurisdiction  over  the  entire  territory  of  the  repub- 
lic. Even  in  times  of  peace,  territories  declared  to  be  military  zones 
fall  under  military  jurisdiction,  although  in  practice  the  standards 
of  military  criminal  justice  generally  have  not  been  applied  in  try- 
ing civilians. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance  in  the  1980s 

The  United  States 

United  States  military  aid  to  Bolivia  remained  frozen  for  eight 
years  until  September  1985,  shortly  after  Paz  Estenssoro  assumed 
office.  In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  the  United  States  continued 
its  former  role  as  Bolivia's  principal  foreign  source  of  military 
assistance.  The  United  States  provided  assistance  through  its 
Military  Aid,  Foreign  Military  Sales,  and  International  Military 
Education  and  Training  programs.  In  addition,  Bolivian  officers 


245 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

received  training  at  the  School  of  the  Americas  (relocated  from 
Panama  to  Fort  Bragg,  North  Carolina)  in  fields  such  as  radio  and 
communications . 

Bolivia  and  the  United  States  also  held  two  joint  counterinsur- 
gency  exercises  and  one  major  antinarcotics  operation  in  eastern 
Bolivia  during  the  1986-87  period  of  the  Paz  Estenssoro  govern- 
ment (see  Narcotics  Trafficking,  this  ch.).  Code-named  United 
Forces — 86,  the  exercises  involved  some  270  soldiers  from  South- 
corn  and  at  least  1,000  Bolivian  troops. 

Three  weeks  of  counterinsurgency  exercises  known  as  Absalom 
or  United  Forces  87 — Bolivia  were  carried  out  in  May  1987  with 
the  participation  of  350  United  States  troops  and  more  than  1 ,000 
Bolivian  soldiers.  According  to  the  Bolivian  minister  of  national 
defense,  their  objectives  were  to  bring  the  staffs  of  the  three  armed 
forces  branches  up  to  date  on  the  modern  methods  of  conventional 
and  unconventional  warfare,  to  train  the  FF.AA.  in  conducting 
field  exercises,  and  to  carry  out  civic  action.  In  testimony  before 
the  United  States  Congress,  the  United  States  deputy  assistant  secre- 
tary of  defense  for  drug  policy  and  enforcement  explained  that  the 
joint  counterinsurgency  exercises  emphasized  command,  control, 
communication,  and  intelligence  procedures,  as  well  as  tactical  air, 
riverine,  special,  military  police,  and  light  infantry  operations. 

In  1 988  United  States  aid  to  the  Bolivian  military  was  being  fun- 
neled  through  the  Armed  Forces  National  Development  Corpora- 
tion (Corporacion  de  las  Fuerzas  Armadas  para  el  Desarrollo 
Nacional — Cofadena),  headquartered  in  La  Paz.  One  of  the  mili- 
tary regimes  created  Cofadena  as  an  industrial,  agricultural,  and 
mining  holding  company  and  development  organization.  Military 
companies  under  its  purview  included  the  National  Factory  of  Ex- 
plosives and  Munitions  (Fabrica  Nacional  de  Explosivos  y  Muni- 
ciones — Fanexa).  The  FF.AA.  also  established  its  own  commercial 
bank,  the  Banco  del  Progreso  Nacional  (National  Progress  Bank). 

In  November  1988,  Bolivia's  minister  of  national  defense  an- 
nounced that  the  United  States,  at  the  request  of  the  Bolivian 
government,  would  grant  the  nation  US$25  million  to  modernize 
the  FF.AA.  over  a  five-year  period.  United  States  financial  as- 
sistance to  the  FF.AA.  totaled  US$5  million  in  1988  and  US$5.3 
million  in  1989.  The  military  assistance  agreement  also  included 
technical,  training,  and  materiel  aid.  In  January  1989,  Bolivia's 
Congress  authorized  300  United  States  military  technicians,  logisti- 
cal personnel,  and  soldiers  to  spend  four  months  expanding  the 
runway  of  Potosf's  Captain  Rojas  Airport  to  3,000  meters  by  level- 
ing a  hill.  Bolivia  reportedly  also  agreed  to  receive  three  special 
United  States  military  missions  a  year  to  train  Bolivian  troops.  The 


246 


Plaza  Avaroa,  located  in  the  Sopocachi  suburb  of  La  Paz 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  State 

FF.AA.  also  acquired  four  Hercules  C-130  aircraft  in  1988,  in  ad- 
dition to  equipment  donated  by  the  United  States  Army  during 
previous  exercises. 

Other  Foreign  Military  Ties 

In  the  1980s,  Bolivia  also  began  seeking  military  aid  from  other 
countries,  such  as  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many) and  China.  A  group  of  Bolivian  military  commanders  visited 
West  Germany  in  late  1985  to  examine  the  role  of  a  professional 
army  in  a  democratic  society.  Taiwan  ended  its  aid  to  the  FF.AA. 
after  Bolivia  established  relations  with  China  in  1985.  In  the  late 
1980s,  Bolivia  expected  to  reach  a  series  of  agreements  to  receive 
Chinese  military  training,  arms,  and  other  military  equipment. 

The  Security  Forces 

Historical  Background 

Although  the  marshal  of  Ayacucho,  Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre  Alcala, 
had  organized  the  first  Bolivian  police  force  on  June  24,  1826,  the 
National  Police  (Policia  Nacional)  was  not  established  officially  until 
1886.  The  Bolivian  police  became  institutionalized  on  the  national 
level  in  1937  with  the  creation  of  the  National  Corps  of  Carabineers 
(Cuerpo  Nacional  de  Carabineros)  and  its  professional  training 


247 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


school,  the  Police  School  (Escuela  de  Policia),  later  renamed  the 
National  Police  Academy  (Academia  Nacional  de  Policias).  The 
carabineers  constituted  a  post-Chaco  War  merger  of  the  Military 
Police,  the  Gendarmerie  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Gendarmeria),  the 
paramilitary  Security  Police  (Policia  de  Seguridad),  and  the  army's 
Carabineer  Regiment  (Regimiento  de  Carabineros). 

Unlike  in  most  Latin  American  countries,  Bolivia's  police  forces 
had  always  been  responsible  to  the  national  government  rather  than 
to  lesser  political  authorities.  The  concept  of  centralized  police  power 
is  established  by  the  Constitution.  The  Police  Law  of  1886  formal- 
ized the  system  that  remained  in  effect  throughout  the  first  half 
of  the  twentieth  century.  In  1950  the  Organic  Law  of  Police  and 
Carabineers  of  Bolivia  (Law  No.  311)  revised  the  police  system 
substantially.  Law  No.  311  and  the  1886  law  provide  the  legal  basis 
for  the  present-day  police  system. 

Until  the  1952  Revolution,  the  police  corps  was  subordinate  to 
the  army  and  to  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense.  The  army  as- 
sumed most  police  functions  and  treated  the  corps  as  a  reserve  to 
be  called  on  only  in  times  of  dire  emergency.  As  a  result  of  its  ac- 
tive support  of  the  1952  Revolution,  however,  the  national  police 
received  greater  jurisdiction  over  police  affairs  and  was  modernized. 
It  and  the  carabineers  were  transferred  to  the  jurisdiction  of  what 
was  then  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  which  concerned  itself  exclu- 
sively with  administrative  supervision.  Nevertheless,  the  police 
resented  being  commanded  by  an  army  officer  and  having  lower 
status  and  pay  than  the  military. 

Mission  and  Organization 

The  constitutional  mission  of  the  national  police  is  to  preserve 
public  order,  protect  society  through  its  specialized  agencies,  and 
guarantee  enforcement  of  the  laws.  The  police  are  also  responsi- 
ble for  protecting  foreign  diplomatic  missions.  The  police  do  not 
deliberate  or  participate  in  partisan  politics.  The  Constitution  stipu- 
lates that  the  president  of  the  republic  is  the  commander  in  chief 
of  the  police  forces  (see  fig.  15).  In  this  capacity,  the  president — 
acting  through  the  minister  of  interior,  migration,  and  justice — 
names  the  director  general  of  the  National  Police  Corps  (Cuerpo 
de  Policia  Nacional),  another  name  for  the  national  police.  In  a 
national  emergency,  the  president  is  empowered  to  administer 
directly  the  activities  of  the  police  corps.  In  time  of  international 
war,  the  police  forces  would  be  subordinate  to  the  FF.AA.  com- 
mander in  chief  and  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  for  the  du- 
ration of  the  conflict.  In  that  event,  the  Constitution  requires  that 
police  activities  be  integrated  with  those  of  the  army  as  though  the 


248 


National  Security 


police  were  reserve  units  called  to  active  duty  for  the  duration  of 
hostilities.  The  director  general,  who  may  be  a  civilian  but  almost 
invariably  has  been  a  high-ranking  career  police  officer  (usually 
with  colonel  rank),  normally  exercises  operational  control. 

The  police  corps,  with  at  least  15,000  personnel  in  the  late  1980s, 
consisted  of  the  General  Administration  (Administracion  General) 
section;  the  5,000-member  paramilitary  National  Guard  (Guardia 
Nacional),  still  referred  to  as  the  carabineers  (Carabineros),  which 
were  reorganized  in  1976;  the  Directorate  of  National  Investiga- 
tions (Direction  de  Investigaciones  Nacionales — DIN),  which 
cooperated  with  the  International  Police  (Interpol);  the  Customs 
Police  (Policia  de  Aduana);  the  Traffic  Police  (Policia  de  Transito); 
the  National  Highway  Service  (Servicio  Nacional  de  Carreteras), 
which  operated  under  the  authority  of  the  Ministry  of  Transport 
and  Communications;  the  Fire  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Bomberos),  which 
was  manned  by  police  personnel;  and  the  National  Police  Acad- 
emy. All  of  these  subordinate  entities  were  separate  administra- 
tive units  within  the  director  general's  office.  This  office,  which 
also  served  as  national  headquarters  for  all  police  and  national  guard 
activities,  consisted  of  a  command  group,  or  Police  General  Com- 
mand, which  was  established  in  the  early  1980s,  and  a  staff  (Estado 
Mayor)  made  up  of  twelve  numbered,  conventionally  established 
staff  sections. 

Special  Police  Forces 

Other  police  forces  under  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration, 
and  Justice  included  antiriot,  antinarcotics,  and  antiterrorist  units. 
The  Special  Security  Group  (Grupo  Especial  de  Seguridad — GES) 
was  an  operational,  technical,  and  specialized  unit.  Its  approxi- 
mately 450  members  were  organized  into  motorcycle  companies. 
They  were  mobilized  to  reestablish  public  order  or  to  respond  to 
an  attack  against  private  property.  Normally,  they  served  in  the 
Legislative  Palace;  Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration,  and  Justice; 
and  other  public  institutions;  or  in  the  national  police's  National 
Guard  and  DIN. 

The  GES  also  assumed  counterterrorist  functions.  In  March 
1987,  French  police  advisers  and  Bolivian  experts  began  giving  a 
three-month  antiterrorism  course — consisting  of  technical  and  psy- 
chological training — to  400  GES  members.  The  purpose  of  the 
training  was  to  form  a  special  group  for  responding  to  hostage-taking 
incidents.  That  June  the  Bolivian  police  announced  officially  the 
creation  of  a  twenty- two-member  antiterrorist  command,  the  Multi- 
purpose Intervention  Brigade  (Brigada  de  Intervention  Polivalente — 
BIP),  responsible  for  solving  cases  of  "uncommon  violence, ' '  such 


249 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


PRESIDENT 
(COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF) 


MINISTRY  OF 
INTERIOR,  MIGRATION, 
AND  JUSTICE 


NATIONAL  POLICE 
CORPS  (DIRECTOR 
GENERAL) 

SPECIAL 
SECURITY  GROUP 
(GES)  1 


NARCOTICS 
POLICE 


STAFF 


MULTIPURPOSE 
INTERVENTION 
BRIGADE  (BIP)2 


SPECIAL 
ANTINARCOTICS 
FORCE 


RURAL  AREA 

POLICE 
PATROL  UNIT 
(UMOPAR)3 


DIRECTORATE 
OF  NATIONAL 
INVESTIGA- 
TIONS (DIN)4 


NATIONAL 
GUARD 

(CARABI- 
NEERS) 


GENERAL 
ADMINIS- 
TRATION 


CUSTOMS 
POLICE 


NATIONAL 
HIGHWAY 
SERVICE 


TRAFFIC 
POLICE 


LA  PAZ 
CARABINEER 
REGIMENTS  (2) 


DEPART- 
MENTAL 
BRIGADES  (9) 


NATIONAL 

POLICE 
ACADEMY 


FIRE 
CORPS 


FEMININE 
POLICE 
BRIGADE 


EXPLOSIVES 
BRIGADE 


Direct  control 


GES  --  Grupo  Especial  de  Seguridad. 
BIP  --  Brigada  de  Intervencion  Polivalente. 
Umopar  --  Unidad  Movil  Policial  para  Areas  Rurales. 
DIN  --  Direccion  de  Investigaciones  Nacionales. 


Figure  15.  Organization  of  the  Police  Forces,  1989 


250 


National  Security 


as  kidnapping,  hostage  taking,  and  outbreaks  of  subversion.  The 
government  of  President  Paz  Zamora  gave  responsibility  for  anti- 
terrorist  actions  to  the  Special  Elite  Antiterrorist  Force  (Fuerza 
Especial  Antiterrorista  de  Elite — FEAE). 

The  narcotics  police,  with  about  6,000  members,  included  the 
Special  Antinarcotics  Force  (Fuerza  Especial  de  Lucha  Contra  el 
Narcotrafico — FELCN),  created  in  1987,  and  a  subordinate  force, 
the  Rural  Area  Police  Patrol  Unit  (Unidad  Movil  Policial  para 
Areas  Rurales — Umopar).  The  Umopar,  popularly  known  as  The 
Leopards  (Los  Leopardos),  was  formed  in  late  1983  under  a  United 
States-funded  program  designed  to  eradicate  the  nation's  cocaine 
trade  and  in  accordance  with  four  treaties  on  narcotics,  signed  by 
both  countries  on  August  1 1 ,  1983.  By  early  1989,  the  FELCN  had 
its  own  intelligence  service,  which  was  charged  with  collecting  evi- 
dence on  individuals  suspected  of  narcotics  trafficking. 

Regional  Police  Structure 

The  National  Police  Corps  was  a  centralized  force,  organized 
on  a  territorial  basis.  Each  department  had  a  police  district  sub- 
divided into  zones.  Field  elements  of  the  National  Police  and  Na- 
tional Guard  were  stationed  in  all  sectors  of  the  country  and  reported 
directly  to  the  office  of  the  director  general  in  La  Paz.  Each  depart- 
ment generally  had  one  brigade  (brigadd)  of  carabineers,  consist- 
ing of  an  urban  and  a  rural  force.  Subordinate  headquarters  (also 
known  as  brigades),  stationed  in  the  capital  of  each  of  the  nine 
departments,  coordinated  and  supervised  operations.  Each  brigade 
was  divided  into  an  urban  command  and  a  rural  command.  The 
urban  command,  at  the  departmental  capital,  operated  the  police 
stations  and  local  jails  and  was  also  divided  into  patrol  and  crimi- 
nal investigation  sections. 

Most  corps  personnel  and  units  within  a  department  were 
considered — regardless  of  their  size,  composition,  mission,  or  sta- 
tion— to  be  part  of  the  brigade  in  the  area  they  served  and  were 
members  of  a  single  departmental  unit.  An  exception  was  the  city 
of  La  Paz,  where  two  separate  regiments  of  carabineers  were  kept 
under  the  direct  control  of  the  director  general  and  the  president. 
Other  exceptions  to  the  integral  brigade  organization  were  made 
in  sections  of  the  country  where  dependence  on  the  regular  depart- 
mental brigade  forces  was  not  deemed  advisable  or  feasible.  Two 
such  areas — San  Ignacio  de  Velasco  in  Santa  Cruz  Department 
and  Tupiza  in  Potosi  Department — had  independent  carabineer 
detachments  in  addition  to  the  department  brigades. 

Certain  departmental  brigade  personnel  of  the  rural  command 
were  assigned  to  a  series  of  frontier  posts  scattered  at  twenty-seven 


251 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

critical  points  along  the  borders  and  at  river  and  lake  ports  of  entry. 
They  included  Customs  Police  integral  to  the  corps,  as  well  as 
uniformed  carabineers  concerned  with  combating  smuggling  and 
other  forms  of  illegal  border  crossing.  The  carabineers  were  also 
heavily  involved  in  civic  action  in  the  more  remote  and  less  popu- 
lated regions  of  the  country.  In  an  effort  to  improve  its  public  rela- 
tions, the  police  created  the  Department  of  Social  Communication 
(Departamento  de  Comunicacion  Social)  in  the  early  1980s. 

Corps  personnel  were  classified  in  three  distinct  groups:  uni- 
formed personnel  (carabineers);  technical  and  auxiliary  personnel; 
and  civilian  police  investigators  and  identification  personnel.  Ranks 
of  uniformed  personnel  generally  corresponded  to  those  of  the  army. 
There  were  four  general  classifications— jefes  (field  officers),  oficiales 
(company  officers),  clases  (NCOs),  and  tropas  (privates) — with  a 
graded  system  of  rank  within  each  class.  Uniformed  personnel  were 
promoted  on  the  basis  of  annual  examinations  given  when  they 
attained  the  required  time  in  grade,  which  was  usually  four  years 
for  all  except  captains  and  sergeants,  who  must  spend  five  years 
in  grade  before  becoming  eligible  for  promotion.  Classification  of 
civilians  was  based  on  a  nonmilitary  two-category  system  composed 
of  superiors  {funcionarios  superiores)  and  subalterns  (funcionarios  sub- 
alternos). 

In  the  mid-1980s,  approximately  80  percent  of  the  National  Police 
Corps  were  uniformed  carabineers.  The  remaining  20  percent  were 
civilian  police  investigators  involved  in  crime  detection,  forensic 
science,  administration,  or  logistics.  Approximately  half  of  the  total 
uniformed  personnel  and  60  percent  of  the  nonuniformed  personnel 
of  the  police  force  were  stationed  in  La  Paz.  The  La  Paz  Depart- 
mental Police  also  had  the  Explosives  Brigade  (Brigada  de  Explo- 
sivos),  which  was  subordinate  to  the  Fire  Corps.  The  600-member 
Traffic  Police  administered  traffic  law.  Only  officers  of  this  force 
normally  carried  sidearms.  All  motorcycle  patrolmen  were  commis- 
sioned officers.  The  Feminine  Police  Brigade  (Brigada  Policial 
Femenina)  served  in  an  auxiliary  or  support  capacity  to  the  opera- 
tional units.  In  addition  to  directing  traffic,  members  of  this  brigade 
helped  in  police  matters  involving  children  and  women. 

All  municipalities  were  entitled  to  raise  local  police  forces  to  en- 
force local  ordinances.  Only  La  Paz,  however,  had  established  such 
a  force,  called  the  La  Paz  Municipal  Police  (Policfa  Municipal  de 
La  Paz).  In  the  mid-1980s,  this  force  numbered  about  400  uni- 
formed and  100  nonuniformed  members,  none  of  whom  was  armed. 
Their  functions  were  limited  to  enforcing  parking  regulations  and 
local  bylaws.  Most  of  the  city  of  La  Paz  was  under  the  jurisdiction 
of  Police  District  No.  2,  which  consisted  of  five  squadrons.  Police 


252 


A  police  station  in  Villa  Tunari,  the  Chapare 
Courtesy  Kevin  Healy 

District  No.  3  was  responsible  for  the  sprawling  shantytowns  above 
the  city  known  generally  as  El  Alto.  Police  Regiment  No.  4  exer- 
cised jurisdiction  over  the  area  south  of  La  Paz. 

Recruitment  and  Training 

The  police  force  was  an  unpopular  career  because  of  poor  pay, 
conditions,  and  prestige  and  thus  did  not  attract  high-quality  per- 
sonnel. But  officers  and  higher  civilian  employees,  who  generally 
were  drawn  from  the  small  urban  middle  class,  were  of  relatively 
higher  quality.  Many  officer  personnel  came  from  the  army.  Offi- 
cers were  commissioned  by  graduation  from  the  National  Police 
Academy,  by  transfer  from  the  army,  by  direct  political  appoint- 
ment for  demonstrated  ability,  or  by  outright  patronage.  Civilians 
were  nearly  always  political  appointees.  Although  specialized  edu- 
cation was  not  a  prerequisite  for  a  civilian's  appointment,  some 
degree  of  qualification  was  usually  present  and  facilitated  on-the- 
job  training.  Enlisted  personnel  received  most  of  their  training  on 
the  job  during  the  first  four  months  after  enlistment. 

The  academic  year  of  the  police  education  system  began  in  Febru- 
ary. The  Young  Men's  Basic  Police  School  (Escuela  Basica  Poli- 
cial de  Varones — EBPV),  which  had  120  students  in  1983,  provided 
a  one-year  training  course  at  the  operational  level  for  subalterns 
of  the  national  police. 


253 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  National  Police  Academy  offered  a  four-year  course  for 
officers.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  academy's  curriculum  included 
criminal  law,  penal  and  civil  investigation,  criminology,  ballistics, 
laboratory  science,  narcotics,  vehicular  and  pedestrian  traffic,  order 
and  security  of  persons  and  installations,  martial  arts,  and  human 
and  public  relations.  The  academy  also  offered  a  specialized  course 
patterned  on  the  counterinsurgency  course  of  the  United  States 
Army  Special  Warfare  School  at  Fort  Bragg,  North  Carolina.  The 
police  academy  additionally  offered  a  program  of  foreign  training 
for  officers.  Selected  personnel  were  sent  to  training  courses  either 
in  the  United  States  or  in  neighboring  countries,  particularly 
Argentina,  Chile,  Paraguay,  and  Peru.  On  completing  their  courses 
abroad,  these  trainees  returned  to  Bolivia  for  duty,  to  lecture  at 
the  academy,  or  to  organize  and  conduct  unit-level  courses  through- 
out the  corps. 

In  the  past,  admissions  requirements  for  the  academy  gave 
greater  importance  to  political  reliability  and  unquestioned  loyalty 
to  the  government  than  to  education.  By  the  early  1980s,  appli- 
cants had  to  undergo  medical,  physical,  and  mental  examinations, 
as  well  as  tests  of  their  general  knowledge.  Cadets  accepted  to  attend 
the  academy  were  not  subject  to  the  age  limitations  for  enlisted 
military  service.  Matriculation  exempted  them  automatically  from 
their  military  obligations.  The  normal  student  body  ranged  from 
480  to  500  cadets  divided  into  four  courses.  In  1983  the  academy 
had  very  few  women  cadets,  and  the  incorporation  of  women  into 
police  ranks  was  at  an  experimental  stage.  On  graduation,  which 
required  passing  an  examination,  cadets  received  a  bachelor  of  hu- 
manities certificate,  a  saber  to  symbolize  officer  rank,  and  a  com- 
mission as  second  lieutenant  in  the  carabineers.  Those  graduates 
who  were  drawn  from  brigades  then  returned  to  their  units  to  or- 
ganize local  classes. 

The  Higher  Police  School  (Escuela  Superior  de  Policias — ESP) 
was  created  in  February  1969  for  officers  in  the  ranks  of  lieutenant 
colonel  and  above.  The  ESP  prepared  higher  officers  to  manage 
the  command  departments,  operational  units,  and  training  insti- 
tutes. In  1983  the  ESP's  student  body  consisted  of  fifty- seven  higher 
officers. 

Threats  to  Internal  Security 

Narcotics  Trafficking 

By  the  late  1980s,  Bolivians  had  become  increasingly  aware  of 
the  serious  threat  to  their  society  posed  by  drug  traffickers.  One 
Bolivian  editorial  identified  several  dimensions  of  that  threat:  the 


254 


National  Security 


existence  of  hundreds  of  clandestine  airstrips  in  eastern  Bolivia; 
flights  of  unidentified  aircraft  in  Bolivian  airspace;  the  presence 
of  armed  criminal  groups;  the  disappearance  of,  and  trafficking 
in,  Bolivian  passports;  the  intervention  of  officials  of  foreign  govern- 
ments in  Bolivia's  affairs;  the  acceptance  of  foreign  troops  on  Boliv- 
ian territory;  corruption  within  the  national  security  agencies  and 
courts  of  justice;  the  growing  control  of  mass  media  by  narcotics 
traffickers;  the  spread  of  drug  abuse  among  Bolivian  youth;  and 
the  increased  links  between  traffickers  and  guerrilla  groups. 

Narcoterrorism 

An  unwanted  by-product  of  Bolivia's  cocaine  industry  was  the 
importation  of  Colombian- style  drug  violence.  In  the  late  1980s, 
Colombia's  Medellin  Cartel  reportedly  wielded  considerable  power 
in  Bolivia,  setting  prices  for  coca  paste  and  cocaine  and  terrorizing 
the  drug  underworld  with  hired  assassins.  Furthermore,  drug  barons, 
organized  into  families,  had  established  their  own  fiefdoms  in 
Cochabamba,  Beni,  and  Santa  Cruz  departments,  using  bribes  and 
assassinations  to  destroy  local  authority. 

In  September  1986,  three  members  of  a  Bolivian  scientific  team 
were  slain  in  the  Huanchaca  National  Park  in  Santa  Cruz  Depart- 
ment shordy  after  their  aircraft  landed  beside  a  clandestine  coca- 
paste  factory.  The  murders  led  to  the  discovery  of  the  country's 
largest  cocaine-processing  installation,  as  well  as  evidence  of  an 
extensive  international  drug-trafficking  organization  consisting 
mosdy  of  Colombians  and  Brazilians.  President  Paz  Estenssoro  fired 
the  Bolivian  police  commander  and  deputy  commander  as  a  result 
of  their  alleged  involvement.  In  a  related  action,  suspected  traffickers 
in  Santa  Cruz  murdered  an  opposition  deputy  who  was  a  member 
of  the  congressional  commission  that  investigated  the  Huanchaca 
case. 

In  the  late  1980s,  there  were  several  incidents  of  narcoterrorism 
against  the  United  States  presence,  the  judiciary,  and  antidrug 
agents.  For  example,  the  so-called  Alejo  Calatayu  terrorist  command 
claimed  responsibility  for  a  May  1987  bomb  attack  against  the 
Cochabamba  home  of  a  United  States  Drug  Enforcement  Adminis- 
tration (DEA)  agent.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  seated  in  Sucre, 
requested  and  received  military  police  protection  in  mid- 1986.  The 
Explosives  Brigade  successfully  removed  a  live  briefcase-bomb  from 
the  Senate  library  in  August  1987.  The  so-called  Santa  Cruz  Cartel, 
allegedly  linked  to  the  Medellin  Cartel  in  Colombia,  claimed 
responsibility  for  the  machine-gun  murders  of  two  members  of  the 
FELCN  in  Santa  Cruz  in  March  1988.  Bolivians  were  also  con- 
cerned about  the  increasing  brazenness  of  Bolivia's  drug  traffickers, 


255 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

as  demonstrated  in  August  1988  by  a  low-power  dynamite  attack 
on  Secretary  of  State  George  P.  Shultz's  car  caravan  as  it  headed 
down  from  La  Paz's  Kennedy  International  Airport.  The  so-called 
Simon  Bolivar  Group  and  the  Pablo  Zarate  Willka  National  Indi- 
genous Force  (Fuerza  Indigenista  Pablo  Zarate  Willka — FIPZW) 
claimed  responsibility. 

Narcotics  Corruption 

Drug-related  corruption  reportedly  began  to  take  a  firm  hold 
within  Bolivia's  military  and  security  services  under  General 
Banzer's  rule  (1971-78).  The  Garcia  Meza  regime  (1980-81), 
however,  was  one  of  Bolivia's  most  flagrant  examples  of  narcotics 
corruption.  Garcia  Meza's  so-called  cocaine  coup  was  itself  gener- 
ally believed  to  have  been  financed  by  the  cocaine  ' 'mafia,"  which 
bribed  certain  military  officers.  Garcia  Meza  reportedly  ruled  with 
an  44 inner  cabinet"  of  leading  civilians  and  military  officers  in- 
volved in  the  cocaine  trade.  Two  of  his  ministers — Colonel  Ariel 
Coca  and  Colonel  Luis  Arce  Gomez — were  well-known  4 'god- 
fathers" of  the  industry.  By  1982  approximately  4,500  prosecu- 
tions were  under  way  in  connection  with  the  embezzlement  of  state 
funds  by  civil  servants,  said  to  amount  to  a  total  of  US$100  million. 

In  early  1986,  Congress  charged  Garcia  Meza  and  fifty-five  of 
his  former  colleagues  with  sedition,  armed  uprising,  treason,  geno- 
cide, murder,  torture,  fraud  against  the  state,  drug  trafficking, 
crimes  against  the  Constitution,  and  other  crimes.  In  April  1986, 
however,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  suspended  the  first  hear- 
ing in  Garcia  Meza's  murder  trial,  after  his  defense  demanded  the 
removal  of  three  judges  whom  it  charged  had  participated  in  Garcia 
Meza's  military  government.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  sub- 
sequently voted  to  remove  its  president  and  two  other  justices  from 
the  trial.  After  Garcia  Meza  escaped  from  custody  (he  had  been 
living  under  house  arrest  in  Sucre)  and  reportedly  fled  the  coun- 
try in  early  1989,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  vowed  to  try  him 
and  two  accomplices  in  absentia.  Governmental  and  military/police 
corruption  under  the  Paz  Estenssoro  government  (1985-89)  was 
less  flagrant  than  in  the  1980-82  period  of  military  rule.  Neverthe- 
less, it  reportedly  remained  widespread. 

In  December  1988,  Bolivia's  foreign  minister  asserted  that  nar- 
cotics traffickers  were  attempting  to  corrupt  the  political  process. 
Bolivians  were  outraged,  for  example,  by  secretly  taped  "narco- 
videos"  made  in  1985  by  Roberto  Suarez  Gomez  (known  as  the 
"King  of  Cocaine"  in  Bolivia  until  the  mid-1980s)  and  aired  on 
national  television  in  May  1988.  The  tapes,  provided  by  a  former 
naval  captain  cashiered  for  alleged  corruption,  showed  two  promi- 
nent politicians  from  Banzer's  Nationalist  Democratic  Action 


256 


National  Security 


(Accion  Democratica  Nacionalista — ADN)  and  military  figures 
fraternizing  with  Suarez. 

The  Umopar  in  particular  had  earned  a  reputation  for  corrup- 
tion, especially  in  the  Chapare  region.  In  1987,  according  to  Depart- 
ment of  State  and  congressional  staff,  drug  traffickers  were  offering 
Umopar  officers  and  town  officials  in  the  Chapare  region  amounts 
ranging  from  US$15,000  to  US$25,000  for  seventy-two  hours  of 
'  'protection"  in  order  to  allow  aircraft  to  load  and  take  off  from 
clandestine  airstrips.  In  February  1988,  the  deputy  minister  of  na- 
tional defense  announced  that  about  90  percent  of  Umopar  mem- 
bers, including  twelve  middle-  and  high-ranking  officers,  had  been 
dismissed  for  alleged  links  to  drug  trafficking.  The  La  Paz  news- 
paper Presencia  reported  in  March  1988  that  Umopar  chiefs,  in- 
cluding the  prosecutors,  were  working  with  narcotics  traffickers  by 
returning  to  them  the  large  drug  finds  and  turning  only  the  small 
ones  in  to  the  authorities.  Observers  considered  Umopar  forces  in 
Santa  Cruz  to  be  more  honest  and  dedicated. 

In  October  1988,  the  undersecretary  of  the  Social  Defense  Secre- 
tariat reiterated  that  drug  traffickers  had  obtained  the  protection  of 
important  sectors  of  influence  in  Bolivia,  including  some  military 
members  and  ordinary  judges.  He  cited  the  example  of  Cocha- 
bamba's  Seventh  Division  commander  and  four  of  his  top  officers, 
who  were  discharged  dishonorably  after  they  were  found  to  be  pro- 
tecting a  clandestine  Chapare  airstrip  used  by  drug  smugglers.  The 
ministry  official  also  announced  that  the  navy  was  protecting  drug- 
trafficking  activities  in  the  Puerto  Villarroel  area  of  the  Chapare. 
For  that  reason,  the  United  States  suspended  assistance  to  the  navy 
temporarily  in  late  1988  until  its  commander  was  replaced.  In  De- 
cember 1989,  Bolivia's  antidrug  police  captured  no  less  a  drug 
trafficker  than  Arce  Gomez,  who  was  subsequently  extradited  to 
the  United  States. 

Bilateral  and  Legislative  Antinarcotics  Measures 

In  February  1987,  Bolivia  and  the  United  States  signed  a  broad 
outline  of  an  agreement  on  a  three-year,  US$300  million  joint  plan 
aimed  at  eradicating  70  percent  of  Bolivia's  known  coca  fields.  The 
new  program  included  a  one-year  voluntary  eradication  phase  and 
a  program  in  which  coca  growers  would  be  paid  US$350  in  labor 
costs  and  US$1 ,650  in  longer-term  development  assistance  for  each 
hectare  of  coca  destroyed.  According  to  the  Department  of  State's 
Bureau  of  International  Narcotics  Matters,  Bolivia  exceeded  the 
voluntary  coca  reduction  target  for  the  September  1987  to  August 
1988  period,  destroying  2,000  hectares,  or  200  more  than  required. 


257 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

To  implement  the  1987  agreement,  the  Paz  Estenssoro  govern- 
ment revamped  the  antidrug  bureaucracy  that  had  been  established, 
incongruously,  in  1981  during  the  Garcia  Meza  regime.  The  Na- 
tional Council  Against  the  Unlawful  Use  and  Illicit  Trafficking  of 
Drugs  (Consejo  Nacional  Contra  el  Uso  Indebido  y  Trafico  Ilicito 
de  Drogas — Conalid),  presided  over  by  the  foreign  minister,  was 
charged  with  drawing  up  rules  and  regulations  and  creating  new 
antidrug-trafficking  measures.  Two  new  secretariats  were  formed 
under  Conalid.  The  Social  Defense  Subsecretariat  (Subsecretaria 
de  Defensa  Social)  was  made  subordinate  to  the  Ministry  of  In- 
terior, Migration,  and  Justice  and  charged  with  interdiction.  It  also 
centralized  all  the  activities  of  the  National  Directorate  for  the  Con- 
trol of  Dangerous  Substances  (Direccion  Nacional  para  el  Control 
de  Substancias  Peligrosas — DNCSP)  and  of  the  Umopar.  The  Sub- 
secretariat  of  Alternative  Development  and  Substitution  of  Coca 
Cultivation  (Subsecretaria  de  Desarrollo  Alternativo  y  Sustitucion 
de  Cultivos  de  Coca)  and  its  Coca  Eradication  Directorate  (Direc- 
cion de  la  Reconversion  de  la  Coca — Direco)  were  charged  with 
drawing  up  overall  rural  development  plans  for  the  areas  affected 
by  the  substitution  of  the  coca  plantations. 

On  July  19,  1988,  to  qualify  for  United  States  aid,  Paz  Estenssoro 
signed  the  Law  of  Regulations  for  Coca  and  Controlled  Substances 
(Ley  del  Regimen  de  la  Coca  y  Sustancias  Controladas) — hereafter, 
the  1988  Antinarcotics  Law.  One  of  the  strictest  antinarcotics  laws 
in  Latin  America,  it  aimed  at  eradicating  illicit  coca  production 
and  penalizing  trafficking  in  drugs.  As  enacted  by  presidential 
decree  in  December  1988,  the  new  law  provided  for  a  10,000-hectare 
zone  of  legal  coca  cultivation  in  the  Yungas  region  of  La  Paz  Depart- 
ment and  a  small  section  of  Cochabamba  Department  to  meet  tradi- 
tional demand  (down  from  a  previous  total  of  80,000  hectares  for 
the  Yungas  and  Chapare  regions)  (see  fig.  16).  It  also  provided 
for  a  transitional  zone  of  excess  production  in  the  Chapare  region 
subject  to  annual  reduction  bench  marks  of  5,000  to  8,000  hect- 
ares and  provided  for  an  illegal  zone,  comprising  all  territory  out- 
side the  traditional  and  transitional  areas,  in  which  coca  cultivation 
was  prohibited.  The  law  prohibited  the  use  of  chemicals  or  herbi- 
cides for  the  eradication  of  coca,  established  that  some  48,000  hect- 
ares of  coca  plantations  would  be  eradicated  over  a  five-year  period, 
and  set  up  a  special  judicial  mechanism  to  deal  with  illegal  drug 
trafficking. 

Under  the  1988  Antinarcotics  Law,  drug  traffickers  could  be  sen- 
tenced to  prison  for  anywhere  between  five  and  twenty-five  years; 
manufacturers  of  controlled  substances,  five  to  fifteen  years;  sowers 
and  harvesters  of  illicit  coca  fields,  two  to  four  years;  transporters, 


258 


National  Security 


eight  to  twelve  years;  and  pisadores  (coca  stampers),  one  to  two  years. 
Minors  under  the  age  of  sixteen  who  were  found  guilty  of  drug- 
related  crimes  would  be  sent  to  special  centers  until  they  were  com- 
pletely rehabilitated. 

Shortly  before  the  new  law  went  into  effect,  a  United  States 
General  Accounting  Office  report  criticized  Bolivia's  methods  of 
fighting  drug  trafficking.  The  study,  whose  undocumented  gener- 
alizations about  corruption  reportedly  irked  Bolivian  government 
officials,  put  the  primary  blame  for  the  slow  progress  against  drug 
trafficking  on  rampant  corruption  in  Bolivia  and  "the  unwilling- 
ness or  inability  of  the  government  of  Bolivia  to  introduce  and  im- 
plement effective  coca  control  and  enforcement  measures."  In 
rejecting  the  report,  the  minister  of  interior,  migration,  and  justice 
noted  in  November  1988  that,  in  addition  to  arresting  more  than 
1,000  individuals  on  drug  charges,  Bolivia  had  eradicated  some 
2,750  hectares  of  coca  plantations,  seized  22,500  kilograms  of  co- 
caine, and  destroyed  over  2,000  cocaine  factories.  Bolivian  offi- 
cials also  asserted  that  more  than  1,660  antidrug  operations  during 
1988  had  resulted  in  the  destruction  of  from  1,000  to  1,400  clan- 
destine cocaine  factories  and  laboratories  (80  percent  of  them  in 
Cochabamba  and  Santa  Cruz  departments),  the  confiscation  of 
about  10,000  kilograms  of  cocaine,  and  the  arrest  of  some  700  in- 
dividuals. The  minister  of  planning  and  coordination  stated  in  De- 
cember that  2,900  hectares  of  coca  crops  had  been  eradicated  under 
the  financial  compensation  program. 

Bolivia's  antinarcotics  units  apprehended  several  prominent 
traffickers  in  1988.  At  the  same  time  that  the  1988  Antinarcotics 
Law  was  promulgated,  the  Umopar  arrested  Suarez  at  his  hacienda 
in  Beni  Department.  According  to  one  theory,  Suarez  allowed  him- 
self to  be  arrested  in  a  bid  to  avoid  extradition  to  the  United  States 
(see  The  Criminal  Justice  System,  this  ch.).  In  October  1988,  the 
FELCN  captured  an  alleged  drug  "godfather,"  Mario  Araoz 
Morales  ("El  Chichin"),  by  chance  during  a  training  exercise  in 
a  jungle  area.  In  November  antidrug  police  in  the  Chapare  also 
arrested  Rosa  Flores  de  Cabrera,  alias  Rosa  Romero  de  Humerez 
("La  Chola  Rosa"),  described  as  one  of  the  most-wanted  women 
in  the  Bolivian  drug-trafficking  network,  with  connections  to  the 
Medellm  Cartel. 

Under  the  government  of  Jaime  Paz  Zamora  (1989-  ),  antidrug 
institutions  were  restructured,  but  Conalid  remained  the  regula- 
tory body.  Conalid  directed  the  Permanent  Executive  Coordina- 
tion and  Operations  Council  (Consejo  Permanente  de  Coordination 
Ejecutiva  y  Operativa — Copceo).  Like  Conalid,  Copceo  was  headed 


259 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


"... 


A 

BRAZIL  x 

? 


—     —    International  boundary 
®        National  capital 
•        Populated  place 


Coca-growing  area 


0    50   100  150  Kilometers 
I — t-H  h  1 

0        50       100      150  Miles 


Trinidad 


\ 

BRAZIL 

\ 


jSanta 
Cruz 


/ 


/         PARAGUAY  } 

|  '  .      .-^  — >  '  .'  - 

s    f  '> 


ARGENTINA 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Agency  for  International  Development, 
A  Review  o/AID's  Narcotics  Control  Development  Assistance  Program,  Washington,  1986,  E-2. 


Figure  16.  Principal  Coca-Growing  Regions,  1985 

by  the  foreign  minister,  and  its  membership  also  included  the 
ministers  of  interior,  migration,  and  justice;  planning  and  coordi- 
nation; social  services  and  public  health;  agriculture,  campesino 
affairs,  and  livestock  affairs;  education  and  culture;  national  defense; 
and  finance.  The  new  National  Executive  Directorate  (Directorio 
Ejecutivo  Nacional — DEN)  was  to  support  Copceo's  plans  and 


260 


National  Security 


program  dealing  with  alternative  development,  drug  prevention, 
and  coca-crop  eradication. 

Antinarcotics  Forces  and  Operations 

Under  the  1983  antidrug  agreement,  which  established  the  Umopar, 
the  United  States  provided  an  initial  US$4  million  to  form,  train, 
and  equip  (with  nonlethal  items)  300  Umopar  members  and  a 
30-member  detective  squad.  In  July  1984,  the  Siles  Zuazo  govern- 
ment undertook  to  dismantle  the  nation's  billion-dollar  drug  in- 
dustry and  ensure  the  receipt  of  a  United  States  economic  aid 
package  by  declaring  the  nation's  principal  coca- growing  area,  the 
Chapare,  a  military  zone.  The  government  sent  in  up  to  1 ,500  sol- 
diers, including  the  Umopar,  but  withdrew  the  unpopular  troops 
from  the  region  by  that  September.  Social  scientist  Kevin  Healy 
observed  that,  with  few  exceptions,  the  Siles  Zuazo  government  did 
not  deploy  police  or  military  force  to  deal  with  the  frequent  peasant 
demonstrations  against  the  drug  war  that  took  place  throughout 
Bolivia  during  1983-85. 

The  more  conservative  Paz  Estenssoro  government  adopted  a 
harder  line.  Following  a  meeting  of  the  International  Drug  En- 
forcement Conference  in  April  1986,  the  Paz  Estenssoro  govern- 
ment requested  United  States  military  assistance  in  reaching  isolated 
areas  where  drugs  were  being  processed.  In  early  July  1986,  after 
extended  negotiations,  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Wor- 
ship authorized  the  entry  of  United  States  troops  to  provide  re- 
quested temporary  logistical  support  for  National  Police  Corps 
find-and-destroy  operations  against  coca-processing  facilities  in  the 
Chapare  region,  as  well  as  in  Beni  and  Santa  Cruz  departments. 
The  resulting  United  States  support  operation — called  Operation 
Bol-USA  in  Bolivia  and  Operation  Blast  Furnace  in  the  United 
States — got  under  way  later  that  month  with  the  arrival  at  Santa 
Cruz's  Viru-Viru  International  Airport  of  a  United  States  C-5A 
Galaxy  transport  airplane  carrying  160  United  States  Rangers  from 
Southcom  and  about  15  DEA  members,  along  with  six  Black  Hawk 
transport  helicopters.  The  operation  involved  the  United  States 
Army  officers — experts  in  communications  and  mechanics — in 
training  1,000  Bolivian  soldiers  from  all  three  services  in  counter- 
insurgency  tactics  and  special  police  in  antinarcotics  actions.  The 
role  of  the  United  States  personnel  was  limited  to  transporting  police 
antinarcotics  forces  by  helicopter  to  drug  installations,  all  of  which, 
however,  were  found  to  be  deserted,  owing  to  publicity  about  the 
operation. 

The  Bolivian  government  supported  the  operation  despite  nega- 
tive public  reaction.  After  about  20,000  demonstrators  in  La  Paz 


261 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

protested  the  continued  presence  of  the  United  States  troops  in 
Bolivia  in  late  August  1986,  a  majority  in  Congress  approved  the 
United  States  participation  in  the  antinarcotics  operation.  To  receive 
greater  logistical  support  for  antinarcotics  efforts,  the  Bolivian 
government  extended  the  presence  of  the  United  States  troops  in 
the  country  for  a  second  sixty-day  period.  The  United  States  ef- 
fectively ended  the  operation  in  mid-November  1986  by  withdraw- 
ing its  soldiers.  Once  they  had  departed,  however,  the  coca  trade 
flourished  anew. 

The  Paz  Estenssoro  government  attempted  to  involve  the  FF.AA. 
in  the  antinarcotics  struggle.  In  late  1986,  it  established  a  unit  called 
the  Operational  Tasks  Command  (Comando  de  Tareas  Opera- 
tivas — CTO)  to  coordinate  police  and  military  efforts.  The  govern- 
ment then  formed  the  FELCN,  which  by  1988  consisted  of  640 
Umopar  members.  Its  creation  also  was  intended  to  reduce  the  par- 
ticipation in  antinarcotics  matters  of  high-ranking  police  officers 
and  to  downgrade  the  Umopar.  The  FELCN  was  envisaged  as 
drawing  recruits  from  the  FF.AA. ,  police,  and  other  organizations, 
such  as  the  GES.  The  Paz  Estenssoro  government  agreed  to  pay 
for  the  maintenance  of  the  new  force's  specialized  troops,  and  the 
United  States  agreed  to  outfit  it  with  US$123  million  worth  of 
helicopters,  weapons,  motorboats,  and  other  equipment.  Paz  Estens- 
soro appointed  a  former  FAB  commander  to  head  the  FELCN 
general  command  and  made  the  Umopar  a  subordinate  unit. 

In  1987  the  navy  leased  eight  Piranha  patrol  boats  from  the  DEA 
for  riverine  interdiction  in  Cochabamba  and  Beni  departments. 
The  Piranhas  were  to  be  staffed  jointly  by  naval  and  antidrug  police 
personnel,  with  assistance  from  DEA  agents. 

FAB's  involvement  increased  in  September  1987  when  it  created 
the  Task  Force  (Fuerza  de  Tarea)  to  provide  air  support  for  na- 
tional antinarcotics  efforts.  The  new  unit's  inventory  included  six 
Huey  UH-1H  helicopters  leased  from  the  United  States  after  Oper- 
ation Blast  Furnace.  The  United  States  also  provided  a  thirty-day 
training  course  taught  by  a  team  of  twenty-eight  United  States  mili- 
tary pilots  and  technical  personnel.  After  forming  its  Task  Force, 
FAB  armed  the  unit's  six  Huey  helicopters  with  machine  guns  in 
order  to  provide  for  the  defense  of  law  enforcement  officials  when 
they  inspected  drug  crops.  In  1987  three  of  the  unit's  Huey  helicop- 
ters were  deployed  in  Trinidad  and  at  the  forward  base  of  San 
Javier,  and  the  three  others  were  in  the  Chapare. 

A  United  States  congressional  report  issued  in  1987  alleged  that 
corruption  and  indifference  among  the  Task  Force's  FAB  pilots 
made  their  participation  counterproductive.  In  any  event,  in  its 
first  year  the  Task  Force  completed  1,200  missions  totaling  3,200 


262 


Antidrug  agents  unloading  seized  cocaine 
in  Cochabamba  Department 
Seizure  of  a  cocaine  laboratory  in  the  Cochabamba  Valley 


263 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

hours  without  incident  (although  three  members  were  killed  in 
February  1989  when  their  Cessna  206  crashed).  In  April  1989,  the 
undersecretary  of  the  Social  Defense  Secretariat  reported  that  Task 
Force  patrols  in  the  Chapare  had  "completely  paralyzed"  the  flights 
of  small  aircraft  believed  to  be  involved  in  drug  trafficking.  The 
Task  Force  was  scheduled  to  receive  an  additional  six  Hueys  in 
1989. 

In  1987  a  United  States  Army  Special  Forces  training  team  began 
a  series  of  five-week  training  courses  for  Umopar  personnel  in  topics 
such  as  operations  and  small-unit  tactics,  map  reading,  jungle  sur- 
vival, and  communications.  The  Chapare  base  camp  in  Chimore, 
a  town  on  the  road  linking  Cochabamba  with  Yapacani,  served 
as  the  venue  for  conducting  a  basic  course;  the  Umopar  camp  in 
Trinidad,  capital  of  Beni  Department,  provided  an  advanced  tac- 
tics course.  According  to  the  Department  of  State,  six  such  courses 
were  provided  in  1987,  and  an  additional  six  were  planned  for  1988. 
By  mid-1988,  340  troopers,  including  7  women,  had  graduated 
from  the  basic  course  and  200  from  the  advanced  course. 

In  the  spring  of  1988,  the  DEA  and  local  authorities  began  a 
new  round  of  antinarcotics  programs  called  Operation  Snowcap. 
DEA  agents  in  teams  of  fifteen  to  twenty-five  began  serving  in  the 
Chapare  on  a  rotating  basis.  The  operation  also  involved  mem- 
bers of  the  United  States  Army  Special  Forces,  who  were  confined 
to  military  camps  where  they  trained  Bolivian  troops.  In  addition, 
in  simultaneous  attempts  to  interdict  laboratory  chemicals  being 
smuggled  into  the  Chapare,  United  States  Border  Patrol  agents 
aided  Bolivian  police  at  road  checkpoints,  while  patrol  boats  plied 
rivers  in  the  region.  By  April  1988,  as  a  result  of  antidrug  opera- 
tions mainly  in  the  Chapare,  where  some  90  percent  of  the  300,000 
farmers  in  the  region  were  involved  in  growing  coca  or  processing 
and  marketing  coca  paste,  coca  prices  plummeted  temporarily  and 
dozens  of  coca  fields  went  unharvested. 

Attitudes  Toward  Antinarcotics  Forces 

The  presence  of  the  United  States  military  forces  in  Bolivia  in 
1986  created  widespread  controversy  in  the  country.  Although  four 
political  parties,  including  the  ruling  party  and,  belatedly,  Con- 
gress approved  the  joint  Bolivian-United  States  military  exercises 
in  the  Chapare  lowlands  of  Cochabamba  Department  from  April 
26  to  May  6,  1986,  several  leftist  parties  and  civilian  trade  union 
and  regional  organizations  opposed  them  as  a  violation  of  national 
sovereignty.  Political  and  labor  opposition  groups,  including  the 
Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Central  Obrera  Boliviana — COB), 
formed  a  council  to  express  their  strong  opposition  to  the  presence 


264 


National  Security 


of  the  United  States  forces  and  to  challenge  the  legality  of  inviting 
foreign  troops  into  the  country  without  the  prior  approval  of  Con- 
gress. The  most  militant  opposition  came  from  workers,  cam- 
pesinos,  and  other  residents  of  the  Chapare  and  Yungas  regions 
who  claimed  that  coca  growing  was  their  only  means  of  making  a 
living.  Urged  on  by  cocaine  traffickers  and  peasant  union  federa- 
tions, coca  farmers  resorted  to  mass-mobilization  tactics  such  as  sit- 
ins,  demonstrations,  and  road  blockades.  In  one  incident  in  Octo- 
ber 1986,  some  6,000  residents  of  the  Beni  town  of  Santa  Ana  de 
Yacuma  expelled  150  United  States  soldiers  and  Umopar  members. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Bolivian  press  charged  that  DEA  agents 
had  killed  a  number  of  demonstrating  peasants,  protected  the 
Huanchaca  cocaine  factory,  and  failed  to  combat  the  coca/cocaine 
industry.  In  July  1987,  campesinos  laid  siege  to  a  DEA  camp  in 
Chimore,  forcing  the  temporary  departure  of  twenty-five  DEA 
agents  and  the  relocation  of  the  Umopar  base.  In  May  1988,  thou- 
sands of  campesinos  demonstrated  for  two  days  in  downtown 
Cochabamba,  demanding  the  expulsion  of  twenty  DEA  agents  from 
Bolivia  and  governmental  respect  for  their  coca- growing  livelihood. 
In  order  to  get  the  coca  growers  to  return  home,  the  government 
agreed  to  modify  the  eradication  plan.  In  addition  to  promising 
not  to  force  any  relocations,  the  government  pledged  to  seek  only 
voluntary  reduction  of  coca  fields,  to  decriminalize  coca  growing, 
and  to  seek  more  funds  to  develop  other  crops. 

Exercises  called  United  Forces  88  scheduled  for  May  1988  were 
suspended,  in  part  because  of  widespread  complaints  in  the  local 
press,  Congress,  and  among  political  parties  about  the  holding  of 
the  May  1987  Absalom  exercises.  Most  of  Bolivia's  political  par- 
ties denounced  them  as  another  violation  of  national  sovereignty. 
The  president  dismissed  his  minister  of  national  defense  after  the 
latter,  inebriated,  failed  to  provide  a  coherent  explanation  to  Con- 
gress of  why  the  government  invited  the  United  States  troops  to 
participate  in  the  scheduled  1988  exercises. 

In  the  Chapare,  where  more  than  a  dozen  campesinos  were 
reported  killed  by  the  Umopar  in  the  1986-88  period,  charges  of 
human  rights  abuses  by  antidrug  forces  helped  drug  traffickers  to 
incite  Chapare  coca  growers.  The  president  of  the  Permanent  As- 
sembly of  Human  Rights  of  Bolivia  (Asamblea  Permanente  de 
Derechos  Humanos  de  Bolivia)  reported  in  1988  that  antidrug  police 
routinely  attacked  coca  growers,  robbing  them  of  money  and  goods. 
At  the  same  time,  the  drug  traffickers,  better  armed  than  the 
Umopar,  methodically  employed  terrorist  methods  against  Cha- 
pare residents  who  refused  to  cooperate  with  the  cocaine  industry. 


265 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  1988  Antinarcotics  Law  inflamed  Bolivia's  long  tradition 
of  nationalist,  anti-imperialist,  and  anti- Yankee  sentiment.  Boliv- 
ians widely  perceived  the  new  law  to  be  the  result  of  unacceptable 
pressure  on  their  government  by  the  United  States,  which  had 
linked  coca  eradication  to  the  disbursement  of  loans  to  Bolivia  by 
the  United  States,  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  and  the  Inter- 
American  Development  Bank  (IDB).  The  left-wing  opposition,  in- 
cluding the  Free  Bolivia  Movement  (Movimiento  Bolivia  Libre — 
MBL),  joined  forces  with  coca  producers  in  opposing  the  law. 

Despite  the  adoption  of  the  1988  Antinarcotics  Law  and  the 
government's  claims  of  progress  in  the  antidrug  struggle,  Boliv- 
ian officials  and  political  leaders  in  early  1989  reportedly  felt  that 
enforcing  antidrug  measures  through  repression  caused  too  much 
social  and  economic  damage.  In  addition,  repressive  measures  were 
met  with  violent  resistance  by  coca  growers  and  processors.  In  an 
apparent  policy  shift,  Paz  Estenssoro  began  advocating  voluntary 
crop  substitution  and  eradication.  His  government  also  began  to 
seek  US$600  million  from  wealthy  nations  to  develop  alternative 
agricultural  crops  and  jobs,  build  roads,  and  install  electricity  in 
the  Chapare.  The  Paz  Estenssoro  government  also  remained  pub- 
licly opposed  to  the  possible  return  of  United  States  troops  to 
Bolivia. 

Subversive  Groups 

As  of  1989,  Bolivia  had  not  been  confronted  with  a  significant 
subversive  threat  since  the  Cuban- supported  guerrilla  campaign 
led  by  "Che"  Guevara  in  1966-67  (see  The  Counterinsurgency 
Decade,  this  ch.).  Other  guerrilla  bands,  such  as  those  operating 
in  the  area  near  Teoponte  in  the  Yungas  in  1969-70,  were  even 
shorter  lived.  A  small  group  tried  to  set  up  a  guerrilla  unit  in  the 
Luribay  Valley  south  of  La  Paz  in  1983,  but  seven  of  its  members 
were  captured. 

Several  international  terrorist  meetings  were  reported  to  have 
been  held  in  Bolivia  in  the  1980s,  including  three  in  1985  and  1986 
that  were  attended  by  terrorist  representatives  from  other  South 
American  countries.  Two  meetings  between  Bolivian  left-wing  ex- 
tremists and  representatives  of  other  South  American  terrorist  or- 
ganizations allegedly  were  held  in  Cobija,  Pando  Department,  and 
in  La  Paz  in  1985.  According  to  the  deputy  minister  of  interior, 
migration,  and  justice,  representatives  of  terrorist  organizations 
from  eight  countries  held  another  meeting  in  Santa  Cruz  in  Febru- 
ary 1986. 

In  early  1987,  Peru's  Sendero  Luminoso  (Shining  Path)  began 
to  concern  Bolivian  civilian  and  military  authorities  after  they 


266 


National  Security 


learned  that  its  strategic  plan  called  for  expanding  terrorist  actions 
into  Bolivia  and  Ecuador.  Various  press  reports  in  1987  and  1988 
suggested  that  Sendero  Luminoso  guerrillas  were  using  Bolivian 
territory,  especially  La  Paz,  to  obtain  medical  assistance,  medi- 
cine, food,  weapons,  and  other  supplies  to  support  their  revolu- 
tionary activities  in  Peru. 

A  total  of  six  international  terrorist  incidents  took  place  in  Bolivia 
in  1988,  compared  with  three  in  1987.  A  previously  unknown  group 
called  the  Revolutionary  Labor  Movement  (Movimiento  Obrero 
Revolucionario — MOR)  claimed  responsibility  for  assassinating  the 
Peruvian  military  attache  in  La  Paz  in  December  1988,  an  act  that 
the  Bolivian  police  commander  attributed  to  Sendero  Luminoso. 
A  number  of  politically  oriented  terrorist  incidents  took  place  in 
the  months  leading  up  to  the  May  1989  elections.  A  terrorist  group 
called  the  Zarate  Willka  Armed  Forces  of  Liberation  (Fuerzas 
Armadas  de  Liberacion  Zarate  Willka — FALZW),  presumably 
another  name  for  the  FIPZW,  took  responsibility  for  a  bombing 
in  December  1988  that  caused  much  damage  to  the  offices  of  the 
president  of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  and  for  machine  gunning 
to  death  two  young  Mormon  missionaries  from  Utah  in  a  La  Paz 
barrio  in  May  1989.  Pre-election  terrorism  by  unknown  perpetra- 
tors in  March  1989  included  bombings  at  various  political  party 
offices  in  the  La  Paz  area  that  caused  considerable  property  damage 
and  a  bomb  attempt  at  the  United  States  embassy. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
The  Criminal  Justice  System 

General  Procedures 

The  administration  of  justice  in  criminal  matters  was  exercised 
by  the  ordinary  courts  and  judges  in  accordance  with  the  1978  Law 
on  Judicial  Organization.  The  courts  and  the  criminal  procedures 
are  rooted  in  the  old  Spanish  and  Napoleonic  codes  and  are  uni- 
fied in  a  single  national  system  under  the  Ministry  of  Interior, 
Migration,  and  Justice.  There  are  no  jury  trials,  and  the  presid- 
ing judges  base  all  decisions  on  their  own  evaluation  of  the  data 
brought  out  during  the  proceedings.  The  Public  Ministry,  under 
the  Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration,  and  Justice,  is  intimately  in- 
volved in  court  procedures  involving  public  or  civil  cases  in  which 
the  Penal  Code  has  been  violated.  It  is  headed  at  the  national  level 
by  two  attorneys  general  (fiscales  generates)  who  operate  in  the  fields 
of  criminal  and  civil  law.  Subordinate  prosecutors  {fiscales  and  sub- 
fiscales)  are  stationed  throughout  the  country,  where  they  serve  in 
capacities  similar  to,  but  more  wide-ranging  than,  those  of  state 
and  district  attorneys  in  the  United  States. 


267 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

The  police  are  responsible  for  apprehending  and  arresting  crimi- 
nals, although  a  citizen  may  arrest  an  offender  if  caught  in  the  act 
of  committing  a  crime.  The  Judicial  Police  (Policfa  Judicial)  is 
responsible  for  ascertaining  and  verifying  crimes,  collecting  evi- 
dence, and  delivering  the  suspects  to  the  judges  and  tribunals  for 
trial.  The  Traffic  Police  exercises  functions  of  the  Judicial  Police 
in  cases  involving  traffic  accidents;  authorities  responsible  for  air, 
river,  lake,  and  rail  transport  assume  the  same  responsibility  for 
cases  involving  their  respective  means  of  transport. 

The  Constitution  requires  that  police  have  a  court  order  to  make 
an  arrest.  An  individual  detained  by  the  police  in  a  local  jail  must 
be  charged  or  released  within  twenty-four  hours,  except  during  a 
state  of  siege,  when  authorities  may  detain  persons  for  up  to  forty- 
eight  hours  before  obtaining  an  arrest  order.  During  the  initial 
period,  a  judge  must  determine  the  legality  of  the  detention.  Prison- 
ers are  usually  released  if  they  are  determined  to  have  been  de- 
tained illegally.  After  charging  a  detainee,  the  police  notify  the 
public  prosecutor,  who  lodges  a  complaint  before  an  investigating 
judge,  who  then  assumes  the  case.  An  arrested  suspect  is  presumed 
innocent  until  proven  guilty  and  may  consult  a  lawyer  of  his  choice 
if  charged  with  a  crime.  An  individual  charged  with  a  crime  may 
qualify  to  be  released  on  bail,  which  is  generally  granted  except 
in  certain  narcotics  cases. 

In  situations  involving  penal  action,  the  office  of  the  Public  Minis- 
try is  responsible  for  assembling  the  evidence  and  testimony  and, 
with  police  assistance,  studying  the  complaint,  visiting  the  scene 
of  the  crime,  and  locating  and  interrogating  witnesses.  When  the 
evidence,  including  depositions,  is  assembled,  the  investigating 
judge  holds  an  open  hearing  before  all  interested  parties.  The  public 
prosecutor  makes  an  accusation  and  presents  all  witnesses  and  docu- 
ments for  the  prosecution.  Witnesses  deliver  their  testimony  as  a 
continuous  narrative,  without  being  questioned  directiy  or  cross- 
examined.  When  the  prosecution  has  finished,  the  judge  interrogates 
the  accused  and  receives  depositions  and  statements  from  witnesses 
who  may  appear  on  behalf  of  the  accused.  Defendants  have  the 
right  to  an  attorney,  including  a  court-appointed  defense  attorney 
at  public  expense,  if  necessary,  but  a  lawyer  is  not  always  provided 
because  of  a  lack  of  funds  and  qualified  attorneys.  Defendants  also 
have  the  right  to  confront  witnesses,  to  present  evidence,  and  to 
appeal  a  judicial  decision.  These  rights  generally  are  upheld  in  prac- 
tice. Although  the  constitutional  right  of  fair  public  trial  is  adhered 
to,  long  delays  in  the  judicial  system  are  common,  according  to 
the  United  States  Department  of  State.  Investigations,  trials,  and 
appeals  procedures  are  so  lengthy  that  some  prisoners  eventually 


268 


National  Security 


serve  more  time  than  the  maximum  sentence  for  the  crime  for  which 
they  were  charged.  A  United  Nations  (UN)  agency  agreed  in  early 
1989  to  provide  assistance  to  improve  the  administration  of  justice 
in  Bolivia. 

The  trial  judge  reviews  the  investigating  judge's  summary  and 
makes  one  of  several  possible  determinations,  in  consultation  with 
the  public  prosecutor.  The  trial  judge  may  decide  that  the  indict- 
ment is  unwarranted  and  dismiss  the  case,  or  the  trial  judge  may 
remand  the  case  to  the  investigating  judge  for  trial  and  deposition, 
depending  on  the  seriousness  of  the  crime.  The  trial  judge  also  acts 
as  a  court  of  second  instance  for  actions  taken  by  an  investigating 
judge.  If  the  trial  judge  concurs  in  the  decision  by  a  lower  court, 
the  action  is  ended;  a  judge  who  disagrees  may  direct  a  retrial. 
The  judge  also  considers  appeals  from  decisions  of  the  lower  courts. 
If  the  trial  judge  decides  to  hear  a  new  case,  the  proceedings  are  gen- 
erally similar  to  those  in  the  lower  court,  but  there  are  some  im- 
portant differences.  For  example,  the  defendant  must  be  represented 
by  an  attorney,  either  his  own  or  one  appointed  by  the  judge.  Addi- 
tional witnesses  may  be  called — either  for  or  against  the  defendant — 
if  the  judge  feels  that  they  may  contribute  to  a  better  understanding 
of  the  case.  The  judge  may  also  call  on  advisers  when  ready  to  study 
the  data  developed  during  the  trial.  Within  three  days  after  the 
trial's  conclusion,  the  judge  must  confront  the  defendant  and 
pronounce  sentence.  The  district  courts  and  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice  follow  the  same  procedures  for  reviews  and  appeals. 

Extradition 

Under  Article  3  of  the  Penal  Code,  no  person  who  is  subject  to 
the  jurisdiction  of  Bolivian  laws  may  be  extradited  to  another  na- 
tion except  by  an  international  treaty  or  reciprocal  agreement. 
Article  44  of  the  Constitution  empowers  the  executive  to  deliver 
to  a  foreign  government,  under  a  reciprocal  agreement,  any  in- 
dividual accused  or  indicted  by  the  judges  or  tribunals  of  the  for- 
eign country,  as  long  as  it  involves  a  crime  committed  in  its  territory 
and  the  extradition  conforms  to  international  treaties.  Presented 
with  an  extradition  request,  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Worship  will  pass  it  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  to  establish 
the  procedure  for  the  extradition.  Although  a  1901  Bolivia-United 
States  treaty  provides  for  extradition,  it  does  not  specifically  men- 
tion narcotics  offenses.  Nevertheless,  both  countries  are  signato- 
ries to  the  1961  Single  Convention  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  which 
provides  that  narcotics  offenses  are  to  be  considered  covered  by 
all  extradition  agreements  between  signatory  nations. 


269 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Impact  of  Narcotics  Trafficking 

In  the  late  1980s,  there  continued  to  be  concern  about  an  over- 
burdened and  allegedly  corrupt  judicial  system.  According  to  the 
Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for 
1988  and  Bolivian  press  reports,  judges  were  implicated  in  drug- 
related  corruption.  Narcotics  traffickers  routinely  tried  to  bribe  ju- 
dicial and  other  officials  in  exchange  for  releasing  suspected  smug- 
glers, returning  captured  drugs,  and  purging  incriminating  files. 
In  1988  the  Senate's  Constitution  and  Justice  Committee  ordered 
the  suspension  of  thirteen  judges  of  the  La  Paz,  Cochabamba,  and 
Santa  Cruz  superior  district  courts  of  justice  for  wrongdoing  in  drug- 
trafficking  cases.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  insisted,  however, 
on  its  prerogative  to  try  the  judges  first.  After  doing  so,  it  ordered 
the  suspension  of  several  of  the  accused  judges  and  continued  to 
investigate  others. 

Relatively  few  prosecutions  or  forfeitures  of  traffickers'  assets 
took  place.  A  lack  of  judicial  investigatory  power  hampered  the 
investigation  of  the  bank  accounts  and  the  origin  of  wealth  of  peo- 
ple suspected  of  trafficking  in  drugs.  Although  thirteen  of  the  "big 
bosses"  reportedly  had  been  identified  by  early  1988,  arrests  of 
drug  kingpins  were  infrequently  reported  because  of  lack  of 
evidence. 

In  ruling  on  the  1986  Huanchaca  case  involving  the  slaying  of 
a  leading  Bolivian  scientist,  his  pilot,  and  a  guide,  the  Third  Crimi- 
nal Court  of  Santa  Cruz  returned  a  guilty  verdict  in  April  1988 
against  ten  Brazilians  and  a  Colombian,  in  addition  to  a  Bolivian 
thought  to  be  dead.  The  court,  however,  dismissed  charges  against 
five  other  Bolivian  suspects,  including  several  well-known  drug 
traffickers.  The  freeing  of  two  of  the  suspects  by  the  Santa  Cruz 
judges  prompted  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  to  demand  the  resig- 
nations of  the  entire  Santa  Cruz  judiciary  because  of  its  leniency 
toward  drug  traffickers.  Four  Santa  Cruz  judges  were  dismissed 
because  of  irregularities  in  the  Huanchaca  case,  which  in  early  1989 
remained  at  an  impasse,  under  advisement  in  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice. 

Under  the  1988  Antinarcotics  Law,  the  Judicial  Police  must 
report  antinarcotics  operations  to  the  closest  FELCN  district  within 
forty-eight  hours.  The  law  also  called  for  the  creation  of  three-judge 
Special  Narcotics-Control  Courts  or  tribunals  (Juzgados  Especiales 
de  Narcotrafico)  with  broad  responsibilities.  In  early  1989,  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  began  appointing  judges  and  lawyers 
to  serve  on  the  new  tribunals,  two  of  which  began  functioning  as 
tribunals  of  first  instance  in  narcotics-related  cases,  with  jurisdiction 


270 


National  Security 


for  the  judicial  districts  of  La  Paz,  Cochabamba,  Santa  Cruz,  and 
Beni.  A  total  of  thirteen  Special  Narcotics-Control  Courts  were  sup- 
posed to  be  operating  by  mid- 1989,  with  two  in  each  of  the  dis- 
tricts of  La  Paz,  Cochabamba,  Santa  Cruz,  and  Beni  and  only  one 
responsible  for  the  five  remaining  departments.  Their  judges,  ad- 
junct prosecutors,  and  support  staff  were  to  receive  higher  salaries 
than  other  judicial  officials.  However,  the  Paz  Zamora  government 
reportedly  planned  to  disband  these  courts. 

The  Penal  System 

In  arriving  at  a  verdict,  the  judge  considers  the  nature  of  the 
crime  committed  and  the  existence  of  special  circumstances  sur- 
rounding the  case  before  imposing  a  penalty  or  punishment.  The 
judge  must  give  special  attention  to  the  criminal's  intent.  Bolivia's 
Penal  Code  distinguishes  clearly  between  felonies  and  mis- 
demeanors. The  former  is  committed  voluntarily  and  in  a  spirit 
of  malice;  the  latter,  without  malice.  The  Penal  Code  recognizes 
the  following  three  types,  or  orders,  of  punishment  that  may  be 
imposed  on  criminals,  regardless  of  whether  or  not  the  offense  was 
a  felony  or  misdemeanor:  corporal  punishments  that  involve  some 
form  of  restraint  or  restriction  on  the  person  of  the  offender,  such 
as  imprisonment;  noncorporal  punishments  that  call  for  nonphysical 
penalties,  such  as  deprivation  of  a  civil  right,  surveillance,  bond- 
ing, or  reprimand;  and  pecuniary  punishments  that  exact  a  fine 
or  other  form  of  monetary  payment. 

Although  the  1967  Constitution  abolishes  capital  punishment, 
it  was  restored  in  October  1971  for  terrorism,  kidnapping,  and 
crimes  against  government  and  security  personnel.  In  1973  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  upheld  the  constitutionality  of  Article 
109,  one  of  several  state  security  provisions  of  the  Penal  Code  that 
entered  into  force  in  1973,  which  mandates  the  death  penalty,  by 
firing  squad,  for  any  Bolivian  who  takes  up  arms  against  the  na- 
tion, joins  its  enemies,  or  collaborates  with  the  enemy  in  the  event 
of  a  foreign  war.  In  1981  the  death  penalty  was  extended  to  drug 
trafficking.  A  death  sentence  could  not  be  carried  out,  however, 
until  the  president  decided  against  commutation.  The  president 
could  commute  the  death  penalty  in  favor  of  the  second  most  se- 
vere punishment,  which  was  thirty  years  at  hard  labor,  with  no 
recourse  to  pardon  or  clemency. 

Thirty  years  at  hard  labor  was  also  mandated  under  Article  111 
(espionage)  and  Article  118  (sabotage).  Under  Article  133,  terrorist 
actions  carried  a  penalty  of  two  to  ten  years  in  prison  or,  in  the 
event  of  the  death  or  severe  wounding  of  the  victim,  twenty  to  thirty 


271 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

years.  Engaging  in  armed  actions  against  the  security  and  sov- 
ereignty of  the  state  was  punishable  under  Article  121  by  a  pen- 
alty of  fifteen  to  thirty  years  in  prison.  Article  128  provided  that 
any  attempt  against  the  life  or  security  of  the  president  or  other  high 
government  officials  would  be  punishable  by  five  to  ten  years  of 
prison.  Article  17  established  that  the  penalties  for  drug- related 
offenses  would  never  exceed  thirty  years'  imprisonment.  Most  other 
crimes  did  not  carry  a  greater  penalty  than  ten  years'  imprison- 
ment. At  the  request  of  a  condemned  individual,  a  judge  could 
also  choose  to  suspend  a  sentence  or  grant  a  parole  or  conditional 
liberty. 

Bolivia's  Penal  Code  also  included  a  statute  of  limitations.  A 
severe  criminal  offense  could  not  be  prosecuted  unless  the  offender 
was  brought  to  justice  within  ten  years  of  the  date  of  its  commis- 
sion. Judicial  pardon  did  not  exist  in  the  Bolivian  penal  system, 
but  both  the  president  and  Congress  had  this  power  in  certain  lim- 
ited circumstances.  Both  were  authorized  to  declare  amnesty  for 
political  offenses,  and  Congress  was  empowered  to  pardon  offenders 
in  either  criminal  or  civil  cases,  provided  that  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice  concurred. 

Bolivia  had  several  penal  institutions,  including  the  San  Pedro 
national  penitentiary  (known  as  Panoptico)  in  La  Paz  and  one  in 
each  of  the  nine  departments.  Most  departments  had  jails  to  ac- 
commodate local  offenders  whose  crimes  were  serious  enough  to 
warrant  long-term  imprisonment.  Other  facilities  included  a  cor- 
rectional farm  at  Caranavi  in  the  Yungas,  a  reformatory  for  women 
at  La  Paz,  and  three  reformatories  for  juveniles,  one  at  La  Paz 
and  two  near  Cochabamba.  These  institutions,  with  the  exception 
of  the  juvenile  reformatories,  were  under  the  general  supervision 
of  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration,  and  Justice,  which  assigned 
detachments  of  carabineers  to  provide  guard  and  security  forces. 

Conditions  at  the  Caranavi  correctional  farm,  where  prisoners 
engaged  in  common  work  in  the  fields  during  the  day,  were  better 
than  in  most  penal  institutions  in  Bolivia.  Regulations  there  were 
strict,  and  prisoners  were  tightiy  secluded  in  their  cells  at  night  under 
enforced  silence.  Communication  with  the  outside  world  was  regu- 
lated closely,  and  families  were  rarely  permitted  to  visit  inmates. 
Nevertheless,  by  being  close  to  the  source  of  food  supply,  the 
Caranavi  prisoners  had  better  meals  than  did  inmates  in  urban 
prisons.  The  Women's  Reformatory  at  La  Paz,  with  a  capacity 
for  only  thirty  women,  had  the  best  conditions  of  all  institutions 
in  the  system.  It  was  operated  under  contract  by  a  Roman  Catholic 
order  of  nuns. 


272 


The  treacherous  road  to  Caranavi, 
Nor  Yungas  Province,  La  Paz  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Kevin  Healy) 

According  to  the  Department  of  State,  in  1989  there  continued 
to  be  occasional  reports  of  abuse  of  prisoners  and  detainees  by  in- 
dividual police  and  security  officers,  although  the  Constitution  pro- 
hibits torture  and  the  Siles  Zuazo,  Paz  Estenssoro,  and  Paz  Zamora 
governments  neither  condoned  nor  practiced  such  activity.  Accord- 
ing to  evidence  made  public  in  late  1989,  forty  or  more  severely 
mistreated  prisoners  were  reported  to  have  died  and  been  secretly 
buried  in  a  clandestine  cemetery  at  the  Espejos  Rehabilitation  Farm 
in  Santa  Cruz  Department.  Police,  prison,  and  security  personnel 
were  rarely  tried  and  punished  for  cruelty  toward  or  degrading  treat- 
ment of  detainees.  Corruption,  malnutrition,  and  unsanitary  con- 
ditions were  endemic  in  Bolivia's  underfinanced  prison  system. 
Although  reportedly  built  at  a  cost  of  US$600,000,  Santa  Cruz 
Department's  new  Public  Prison  (Carcel  Publica)  for  juvenile  delin- 
quents, renamed  the  Santa  Cruz  Young  Men's  Rehabilitation 
Center  (Centro  de  Rehabilitation  de  Varones  Santa  Cruz),  was 
the  site  of  inmate  sabotage  in  early  1989. 

Incidence  of  Crime 

In  the  late  1980s,  data  on  the  incidence  of  crime  in  Bolivia  either 
were  not  publicly  available  or  were  fragmentary.  Until  drug  traffick- 
ing became  pervasive  in  the  1980s,  crime  had  not  been  exceptionally 


273 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

high  and  indeed  was  minimal.  Petty  thievery  ranked  high  on  the 
list  of  most  common  crimes.  Also  reported  with  considerable  fre- 
quency were  personal  assaults,  disorderly  conduct,  rape,  and  child 
neglect.  Young  men  seemed  to  be  involved  in  thievery  more  than 
in  other  forms  of  crime,  whereas  older  men  were  more  frequently 
arrested  for  acts  of  violence  against  other  persons.  The  incidence 
of  crime  tended  to  be  highest  during  holidays  and  festivals,  when 
excessive  drinking  is  common. 

Although  crime  statistics  were  unavailable,  newspaper  editori- 
als and  reports  indicated  growing  concern  with  a  surge  of  violence 
and  crime  in  the  1980s  that  included  kidnapping,  rapes  of  chil- 
dren, unsolved  murders,  and  assaults  with  sophisticated  lethal 
weapons  against  vehicles  traveling  on  public  roads.  In  November 
1988,  a  high-ranking  police  official  discussed  police  concern  about 
the  high  crime  rate  in  La  Paz,  especially  those  crimes  in  which  un- 
documented minors  and  foreigners  were  involved.  A  wave  of  kid- 
nappings was  affecting  Santa  Cruz  in  the  late  1980s.  Victims 
included  an  agro-industrial  businessman — a  nephew  of  the  Boliv- 
ian vice  president — kidnapped  in  October  1987  and  released  a  week 
later  in  exchange  for  a  ransom  payment  of  US$10,000;  the  son 
of  the  Bolivian  State  Petroleum  Enterprise  (Yacimientos  Petroli- 
feros  Fiscales  Bolivianos — YPFB)  president,  held  for  a  ransom  of 
US$160,000;  and  an  industrialist,  released  after  payment  of  a 
US$100,000  ransom.  There  were  no  reports  of  political  killings  or 
politically  motivated  disappearances  in  Bolivia  in  1988. 

*    *  * 

In  mid- 1989  the  scholarly  literature  on  Bolivia's  armed  forces 
and  other  aspects  of  the  country's  national  security  remained  lim- 
ited. Revolution  and  Reaction,  the  well-researched  book  by  James  M. 
Malloy  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra,  gives  in-depth  analysis  of  mili- 
tary authoritarianism  during  the  1964-82  period.  General  surveys 
of  Bolivia  that  provide  some  historical  or  political  analysis  of  the 
military  and  security  forces  include  Robert  J.  Alexander's  Bolivia: 
Past,  Present,  and  Future  of  Its  Politics,  James  Dunkerley's  Rebellion 
in  the  Veins,  Herbert  S.  Klein's  Bolivia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic 
Society,  and  Malloy' s  Bolivia:  The  Uncompleted  Revolution.  English- 
language  studies  focusing  more  on  military  institutions  include 
Charles  D.  Corbett's  The  Latin  American  Military  as  a  Sociopolitical 
Force  and  Adrian  J.  English's  Armed  Forces  of  Latin  America.  Rele- 
vant books  by  Bolivian  authors  include  Guillermo  Bedregal  Gutie- 
rrez's Los  militares  en  Bolivia,  Guillermo  Lora's  Causas  de  la  inestabilidad 
politicay  de  la  crisis  de  las  FF.AA.,  Jose  Vargas  Valenzuela's  Tradicidn 


274 


National  Security 


naval  del  pueblo  de  Bolivia,  and  former  General  Gary  Prado  Salmon's 
Poder  y  fuerzas  armadas,  1949-1982.  Useful  historical  background 
is  also  found  in  Maria  Luise  Wagner's  dissertation,  "Reformism 
in  the  Bolivian  Military. ' '  Another  dissertation  on  the  military  is 
James  Dunkerley's  "The  Politics  of  the  Bolivian  Army." 

Kevin  Healy's  "Coca,  the  State,  and  the  Peasantry  in  Bolivia, 
1982-1988"  and  "The  Boom  Within  the  Crisis"  provide  well- 
informed  analyses  of  Bolivia's  cocaine  industry,  particularly  its  rural 
impact.  Useful  information  on  narcotics  issues  is  also  contained 
in  the  United  States  General  Accounting  Office's  Drug  Control  and 
the  United  States  Congress's  On-Site  Staff  Examination  of  Narcotics 
Control  Efforts  in  Bolivia.  An  informative  Bolivian  account  of  Bolivia's 
struggle  against  narcotics  trafficking  is  La  Lucha  boliviana  contra  la 
agresion  del  narcotrdfico  by  Guillermo  Bedregal  Gutierrez  and  Rudy 
Viscarra  Pando.  Some  of  the  more  revealing  books  published  in 
Bolivia  on  narcotics  issues  include  La  veta  blanca  by  Rene  Bascope 
Aspiazu;  Bolivia:  Coca,  cocatna,  subdesarrollo y  poder  politico  by  Amado 
Canelas  Orellana  and  Juan  Carlos  Canelas  Zannier;  and  Narcotrdfico 
y  politica,  produced  by  the  Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  para 
America  Latina  y  Africa. 

Information  on  the  Bolivian  criminal  justice  and  penal  systems 
can  be  found  in  Fernando  B.  Aguirre's  "The  Legal  System  of 
Bolivia"  in  Kenneth  Robert  Redden' s  Modern  Legal  Systems  Cyclope- 
dia; Bolivia's  Codigo  penal;  the  Constitution  of  Bolivia  in  Gilbert  H. 
Flanz,  et  al.,  Constitutions  oj  the  Countries  oj  the  World;  and  Country 
Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices,  a  report  submitted  annually  to 
the  United  States  Congress  by  the  Department  of  State.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


275 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  and  Growth  Rate  by  Region,  1980-85 

3  Projected  Rural  and  Urban  Growth  Rate,  Selected  Years, 

1990-2025 

4  Estimated  Enrollment  of  School- Aged  Population  by  Educa- 

tion Level  and  Sex,  1965,  1973,  and  1987 

5  Probability  of  Dying  Before  Age  Five  by  Region,  Rural-Urban 

Breakdown,  and  Department,  1976 

6  Area  and  Output  of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities,  1984-88 

7  Exports  and  Imports  of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities, 

1984-88 

8  Production  and  Exports  of  Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas,  1980- 

85 

9  Production  of  Selected  Minerals,  1986  and  1987 

10  Exports,  Selected  Years,  1980-87 

11  Imports,  Selected  Years,  1980-87 

12  Balance  of  Payments,  1983,  1985,  and  1987 

13  Law-Making  Process,  1989 

14  Composition  of  the  National  Congress,  May  1989 

15  Transition  to  Democracy,  1971-89 

16  Election  Results,  May  1989 

17  Major  Army  Equipment,  1989 

18  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1989 

19  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1989 


277 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


279 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


CO 
I 

»-1 


-a 
I 

K 
R 

e2 


m 

CM 

CM 

CO 

d 

m 

CM 

CM 

CO 

c 

(£> 

m 

cd 

CM 

CM 

CO 

c 

CO 

CO 

m 

cm 

cm 

CO 

s 

m 

«a 

CM 

CM 

CO 

ci 

d 

d 

ci 

d 

CM 
CO 

en 

CM 

m 

CO 
CO 

CM 

co" 

1 

(£>" 

CM 

Oi 
CM 

CO 

o> 

CO 
CM 

CO 
CM 

CO 

VO 

o 

CM 

CM 
CO 

<£> 

,246 

,082 

co" 

3,122 

1,591 

1,203 

5,916 

CO 

© 

<£> 

m 

lO 

CO 

<£> 

m 

CO 

in 

t»» 
m 
°l 

0s) 

in 

,123 

,600 

CM 

in 

c  13 


58 


3  o  « 


e 

.s  § 

a  co 

o  co 
-o  . 

*5  1:75 


i  *  H  1 

".S-SC  o 

c  - 


00 


280 


Appendix 


2  a 

s  £ 

PL)  O 


a 
o 
a- 


co 

co 

CO 

CM 

O) 

O 

o\ 

CM 

10 

CM 

CT> 

CM 

"* 
•<*< 
q 

m 
m 

O) 

0 

<o 

©" 

rC 

,336 

CM 
O 
iO 

0^ 
co 
CO 

irT 

0? 

CO 

m 

°l 

m 

m 

eo" 

co" 

•9 


*   §  I  6 

1  §  a  s 
1  *  s.  a 


281 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  4.  Estimated  Enrollment  of  School-Aged  Population 
by  Education  Level  and  Sex,  1965,  1973,  and  1987 
(in  percentages) 


Level  1965  1973  1987 


Primary  school 

Male    86  91  94 

Female    60  62  81 

Both  sexes    73  76  87 

Secondary  school 

Male    21  28  38 

Female    15  20  32 

Both  sexes    18  24  35 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Social  Indicators  of  Development,  1987, 
Washington,  1987. 


Table  5.  Probability  of  Dying  Before  Age  Five 

by  Region,  Rural- Urban  Breakdown,  and  Department,  1976 

Before                Before  Before 

Age  One            Age  Two  Age  Five 

Region 

Altiplano   16                 .22  .27 

Yungas  and  other  valleys  17                  .23  .28 

Lowlands  11                  .15  .17 

Area 

Urban   12                 .17  .19 

Rural  17                 .24  .29 

Department 

Beni  11                 .14  .17 

Chuquisaca   18                  .26  .32 

Cochabamba   17                 .24  .29 

La  Paz  14                 .20  .23 

Oruro   16                 .22  .27 

Pando   13                 .18  .21 

Potosf   20                 .28  .35 

Tarija   13                  .17  .20 

Santa  Cruz   12                  .16  .18 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization,  Oficina  Regional  de  Educacion  de  la  UNESCO  para  America  La- 
tina  y  el  Caribe,  Informaciones  estadisticas  de  la  educacion  y  andlisis  cuantitativo,  Santi- 
ago, Chile,  July  1983,  38. 


282 


Appendix 


moooo-^oo 
n  in  o      io      m  ^ 
cn  t-h 


NOmOONNN 
ifilfi  (N  CO  m        00  <X5 

cn  (O  «  ■rt 


iooeomcocn-HN 

N  l£  <£)  N  CO  00 

~  »H 


m-Hcofficvocnco 

CV  *-i  ~h 


(NO*(OCTiW-h(N 
Ms  i£l  l£l  CO 


■8  S 

A  O 


*->  ™    U    X  3 

O  -S  $  0  ©  3 
ftn  Oh  ^  O  CO  W 


283 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


CO 
CO 

I 


c3 


O 


oooooooo 


oooooocom 


ooooomr-«oo 


moooocMOO 


ooooooo<o 


ooooocooo 


loooo^cmoo 


I  § 

c  o 

S3 

3  4) 

11 

11 


ij  u  j 


ei   u    o  ••=■        w   O  3 


284 


Appendix 


Table  8.  Production  and  Exports  of  Petroleum 
and  Natural  Gas,  1980-85 


1980         1981         1982         1983         1984  1985 


Production 

Crude  petroleum  1    1,384  1,286  1,418      1,288      1,211  1,152 

Refined  products  1    1,503  1,352  1,373      1,242      1,234  1,220 

Natural  gas  2' 3    4,780  4,969  5,320      5,041      4,905  4,644 

Exports 

Crude  petroleum  and 

refined  products  1    104  14  26         190       n.a.  n.a. 

Natural  gas  3    2,040  2,196  2,297      2,227      2,210  2,216 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  In  thousands  of  cubic  meters. 

2  Includes  rejected  gas. 

3  In  millions  of  cubic  meters. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Bolivia, 
1988-89,  London,  1988,  16. 


285 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


>* 

o 

CM 

lO 

CO 

o  o 

o 

o 

en 

CO 

o 

co 

o 

°i 

°l 

CM 

IO 

CM 

eo 

to 

cfT 

r-»" 

co* 

© 

o 

-* 

o 

CM 

o 

© 

in 

ITS 

o> 

co 

00 

CM 

m' 

co* 

CM 

^oimnncocoom 
ts  ts  ^  m  *  ^  eo  © 

«  Oi  <£•  Oi        CM  tv  CO 


m 

<* 

CO 

CM  CM 

© 

co 

CO 

m 

o 

©_ 

m 

© 

-* 

cm" 

co" 

o 

o 

O  CM  O 

o 

CO 

© 

CO 

s 

CM 

co 

co 

in 

CM 

in 

t>T 

in 

CM 

f*T 

CO 

CO 

r*. 

© 

CM 

co 

CM 

m 

CM 

m 

00 

cm" 

10 

>n" 

©" 

co  ^  ^  r-~ 
O  a  ^ 
CM  CO  cm 


O  <* 

CO 

CO 

in 

m" 

o" 

m" 

CO 

O) 

CM 

o  o  o 

o  o 

o  o 

m 

CM 

©  CO 

C3 

m"  of 

o" 

"*" 

O  CD 
°-  CO 

■* 

t-h"  cm 

CM 

r>« 
°l 

? 

in 

CM 

co 
© 

© 

m 
t£> 

O  O 

a> 
o 

co 
CM 

of 

m' 

m 

co" 

CO 

co" 

if" 

co" 

-* 

o 

05 

CN 

© 

© 

CM 

co 

CM 

CM 

CI 

o 

"*« 

to 

CO 

CM 

WD 

CM 

co" 

CM 

cm" 

o" 

in 

in 

CM 

CM 

© 

CO 

m 

oc 

l© 

co" 

of 

of 

O 

cm" 

CO 

CO 

r>. 

© 

CO 

en 

CM 

lO 

in 

© 

>* 

10 

© 

© 

CO 

>* 

8 

s 

© 

co_ 

W 

O* 

©" 

ID 

© 

co* 

co* 

eo" 

CO 

CO 

m 

oi 

© 

CO 

CO 

© 

CO 

r-- 

CM 

CO 

CM 

© 

CM 

co" 

©" 

CO 

?  : 

1  : 

"o  • 

: 

;sten 
r  .  .  . 

-5  o 

II 


I 
73 


-  "2  " 


S  -S 

w  C 

.2  6 


u  u  5 

"O  «     •  «-i 

s ;  h 

S  Si  1 

0  e  e  2 

o  £  A  0 


286 


Appendix 


^0 


s5 


K. 


1 

& 

p. 
W 

s 

a 

S3 

rce 

u 
Oh 

d  *  CM  r»"  00  -* i  CO  «*«  ©  rsj 


o  m  ©  o  m 
ai  n  6  e<i  d 


co  o 


IN  H  H  ON 
~  ~  © 


eoo*io^*oco>on 

CM     I    If)  M         CO  (N     I  CO 

i        i    i    i    i    i  ii 


CO  CO  CO  CO  ©  © 
cm  d  d  d  © 


"i"3  o 
11 


*a  ^  -a  -s  .s 


d 

I  § 

£1 


O         CO  ffl 


O  H  ^         (O  (N 

d  n  co  oi  n  iri 

m  i  cm  o  *h  i 

t-h  cm  m  cm 


O         CM  CM  i-H 


in  cm  O  «  O  en 


CT)  CO 

i-<  in  oS 


4 

UP 

m 

m 

CO 

CO 

m 

OO 

O 

p 

m 

eo 

i  eo 

1  •<-* 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CM 

^* 

d 

O 

O 

q 

q 

© 

q 

o 

o 

p 

© 

q 

q 

© 

© 

© 

© 

co 

d 

CO 

co 

in 

CO 

co 

CO 

CO 

CO 

d 

d 

d 

m 

CO 

co 

CM 

CO 

m 

CM 

m 

p 

o 

p 

o 

p 

O 

q 

O 

© 

o 

q 

© 

© 

q 

© 

© 

in 

d 

d 

d 

d 

d 

d 

in 

co" 

eo 

d 

d 

d 

m 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CO 

CM 

© 

CO 

CO 

m 

o 

p 

o 

O 

O 

o 

q 

q 

O 

q 

q 

© 

© 

© 

© 

© 

co* 

o 

d 

© 

d 

CM 

co 

CM 

d 

CM 

d 

d 

d 

CO 

m 

CM 

CO 

eo 

CO 

p 

q 

p 

q 

p 

q 

O 

o 

O 

q 

q 

© 

© 

© 

© 

© 

d 

d 

d 

CO 

id 

co 

CO 

d 

d 

d 

d 

CM 

m 

CM 

CO 

CM 

l> 

m 

CM 

CO 

CO 

!>». 

O  2 


t>  O 

-S  H 

o 


8  B 

.2  10 


"5  g> 

P-.  E 


287 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


cr>  oo  <£> 
d  csi  d 


m  m 


q  ©  t*< 
in  oi 


o  o 
d  d 


*-i  cr>  o  oo 


m  n  n  a 


O  T-4 

d  co 


T?i  O 

co  oi  in  d  n 

to  co  w  m  in 

i    i     I  i 


o  <y>  eo  <r> 

d  co  in  d 

On  h  « 

<H    i  i 


CO 
I 

CO 

tf 
5 


Co 


u  o 
So  o-  ' 
S  S 

c  1-1 

8  13 


oo 
in  d 


o  © 

csi  co 


q  q 

CO  T-J 


o  o 
d 


co  m  n  •* 
csi  — h  in  d  d 


co 

~  d 


O  O  O  co 
csi  in  ^  co 

CSI  Tf 

csi 


O  O  O  co 


o  o  o  o 


CT>  csi  m  <£> 


O  CT> 
csi  t-h' 


q 

q 

q 

q 

q 

q 

q 

o 

o 

q 

q 

q 

q 

q 

csi 

co 

in 

oo' 

CM 

csi 

csi 

co 

d 

m 

in 

d 

in 

m 

CO 

o 

o 

oo 

CO 

CSI 

«  3 


31 

ed  o 


15 

S  "G 


•S  6 


2  g"3 

_  o 
2  H 


>  o  o  °  3 

>  O 


ture 

)ods 

icul 

be 

)H 

b£) 

"3 

o  o 


C  T3 
V  o 

a  o 

'3  "3 
t  s 

S.T3 
8  ro 


6g 


M  C 
...  O 
o  — 

n 


S  Oh  fa 


288 


Appendix 


Table  12.  Balance  of  Payments,  1983,  1985,  and  1987 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


lyuo 

198/ 

  755.1 

623.4 

470,0 

I.  xlllJKJl  IS    Ul    cUUUo  ••••••••••••  

-496.0 

-462.8 

-658.0 

259  1 

160.6 

-188.0 

vnnrt?  r%f  Q^i*\7ir,f»Q 

143  9 

1 14.0 

143.0 

  -647.3 

-636.5 

-572.0 

Net  private  transfers   

  40.2 

19.7 

20.2 

65  2 

59.8 

109.0 

Subtotal 

-398  0 

-443.0 

-299.8 

Current  account  balance 

-138  9 

-282.4 

-487.8 

  6.9 

10.0 

22.0 

  -1.8 

-0.9 

n.a. 

Other  long-term  capital   

  -221.2 

-243.9 

-90.8 

  -113.5 

-2.2 

7.8 

  -329.6 

-237.0 

-61.0 

Errors  and  omissions  

  71.5 

187.9 

-1.2 

  6.0 

3.7 

-23.8 

  668.4 

352.6 

441.8 

  -230.4 

-62.7 

40.9 

Change  in  reserves  2   

  -47.0 

37.9 

91.1 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Free  on  board. 

2  Minus  sign  indicates  increase  in  reserves. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Bolivia, 
1988-89,  London,  1988,  23-24. 


289 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Law-Making  Process,  1989 


Step  Description 


Step  1   Bill  is  introduced  in  either  chamber  by  senators,  deputies,  vice  presi- 
dent, cabinet  members,  or  president.  House  where  bill  is  introduced 
becomes  chamber  of  origin;  "review  chamber"  is  second  chamber. 

Step  2   Bill  may  be  voted  on  or  sent  to  committee  for  a  report. 

Step  3   If  bill  is  sent  to  committee,  committee  must  submit  report  on  bill 

before  whole  chamber.  Bill  is  either  approved,  rejected,  or  sent 
back  to  committee.  Once  a  bill  is  rejected,  it  cannot  be  resubmit- 
ted in  either  chamber  until  next  legislative  year. 

Step  4   Bill  is  introduced  in  review  chamber,  where  it  must  go  through  same 

process. 

Step  5a   If  bill  is  modified  in  review  chamber,  it  is  sent  back  to  first  chamber. 

Step  5b   If  review  chamber  rejects  bill,  it  cannot  be  reintroduced  until  next 

legislative  year. 

Step  6   If  revisions  of  bill  are  not  accepted  by  first  chamber,  president  of 

either  chamber  must  convoke  a  joint  session  within  twenty  days. 

Step  7   A  bill  approved  by  both  houses  is  sent  to  president,  who  has  ten  days 

to  take  action. 

Step  8a   If  president  takes  no  action  within  ten  days,  bill  becomes  law.  If  legis- 
lative year  ends  before  the  ten  days  are  over,  president  may  in- 
troduce reforms  in  next  legislative  year. 

Step  8b   If  president  makes  modifications,  bill  must  be  sent  back  to  chamber 

where  it  was  introduced.  If  changes  are  approved  by  both  houses, 
bill  must  be  returned  to  the  president  for  signing. 

Step  9   If  both  chambers  reject  president's  changes,  a  two-thirds  majority 

can  overturn  a  presidential  veto. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra,  "Political  Stability,  Democrati- 
zation, and  the  Bolivian  National  Congress,"  Pittsburgh,  1987. 


290 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Composition  of  the  National 
Congress,  May  1989 

Chamber  of 
Senate  Deputies  Total 


MNR  1    9  40  49 

ADN  2    8  38  46 

MIR  3    8  33  41 

Condepa4    2  9  11 

IU  5   10  10 

TOTAL    27  130  157 


1  Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionaria  (Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement). 

2  Accion  Democratica  Nacionalista  (Nationalist  Democratic  Action). 

3  Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolucionaria  (Movement  of  the  Revolutionary  Left). 

4  Conciencia  de  la  Patria  (Conscience  of  the  Fatherland). 

5  Izquierda  Unida  (United  Left). 


291 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


o 

•c 

u 

Oh 


292 


(X 
3 
O 
U 


Cu 
O 
U 


1 

Pi 


o 
-o 

Q. 

a 


s 

o 

□ 


o 
U 


bo  bo 

o  o 

>.  5  5 

jO  ^  J 


-T3  "O  -a 

&  Q.  £ 

OJ  $  a 

3  U  3 


a, 

o 
U 


'>      73       >      72  > 

2  b    2    b    S  b 


o 


-2  N 

I  & 

IS 

Sh  Ph 

_  o 

O  w 

■SO 
u 


00  00 


Appendix 


Table  16.  Election  Results,  May  1989 


Number  of  Percentage 
Party  Candidates  Votes  of  Vote 

MNR  1   Gonzalo  Sanchez  de  Lozada        363,113  23.1 

Walter  Guevara  Arze 

ADN  2   Hugo  Banzer  Suarez  357,298  22.7 

Luis  Ossio  Sanjines 

MIR  3  Jaime  Paz  Zamora  309,033  19.6 

Gustavo  Fernandez 

IU  4   Antonio  Aranibar  113,509  7.2 

Walter  Delgadillo 

Condepa  5  Carlos  Palenque  173,459  11.0 

Jorge  Cusicanqui  Escobari 

PS-1  6  Roger  Cortez  39,763  2.5 

Jerjes  Justiniano 

MRTK  7  Victor  Hugo  Cardenas  22,983  1.5 

Emmo  Valeriano  Thola 

FULKA  8   Genaro  Flores  16,416  1.0 

Hermogenes  Basualdo 

FSB  9   Rommel  Pantoja  10,608  0.7 

Nestor  W.  Cerruto 

MIN  10   Luis  Sandoval  Moron  9,687  0.6 

Oscar  Garcia  Suarez 

Blank  11  n.a.  68,626  4.4 

Null  12  n.a.  89,295  5.7 

TOTAL    1,573,790  100.0 


n.a. — not  applicable. 

1  Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario  (Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement). 

2  Accion  Democratica  Nacionalista  (Nationalist  Democratic  Action). 

3  Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolucionaria  (Movement  of  the  Revolutionary  Left). 

4  Izquierda  Unida  (United  Left). 

5  Conciencia  de  la  Patria  (Conscience  of  the  Fatherland). 

6  Partido  Socialista  Uno  (Socialist  Party  One). 

7  Movimiento  Revolucionario  Tupac  Katari  (Tupac  Katari  Revolutionary  Movement). 

8  Frente  Unica  de  Liberation  Katarista  (Sole  Katarista  Liberation  Front). 

9  Falange  Socialista  Boliviana  (Bolivian  Socialist  Falange). 

10  Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Nacionalista  (Nationalist  Leftist  Movement). 

11  Ballots  not  filled  out. 

12  Ballots  nullified  for  some  reason,  e.g.,  defaced. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Final  Official  Vote  Count,"  Presencia  [La  Paz],  May  28, 
1989,  1. 


293 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  17.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1989 

Country 

Type  and  Description  of  Origin  Inventory 
Light  tanks 

Alvis  Scorpion    Britain  12 

Steyr  Sk  105mm    Austria  36 

Armored  combat  vehicles 

EE-9  Cascavel    Brazil  24 

Kiirassier  tank  destroyers   West  Germany  18 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

M-113    United  States  50 

V-100  Commando   -do-  15 

MOW  AG  Roland    France  24 

EE- 11  Urutu    Brazil  24 

Artillery 

M-116  75-mm  Pack  howitzers   United  States  6 

M-101  105-mm  howitzers    -do-  6 

Bofors  M-1935  75-mm  guns    Sweden  10 

FH- 18  howitzers   n.a.  20 

Recoilless  rifles 

90-mm    United  States  50 

M-40A1  106-mm   -do-  n.a. 

Mortars 

60-mm    -do-  n.a. 

M-30  107-mm    -do-  n.a. 

M-29  81 -mm   -do-  250 

Aircraft 

Beech  Super  King  Air    -do-  1 

Piper  Cheyenne  II    -do-  1 

Casa  C-212    Spain  1 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  184; 
and  "World  Defence  Almanac,"  Military  Technology  [Bonn],  13,  No.  1,  January 
1989,  42. 


294 


Appendix 


Table  18.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1989 


Type  and  Description 


Country 
of  Origin 


Patrol  launch  

Hospital-type  patrol  launch 


-do- 
n.a. 


Inventory 


Patrol  craft 

Various  sizes    n.a. 

Piranhas   United  States 


Sea-going  vessel   Venezuela 

Hydrographic  research  ship   n.a. 

Transport  ship   n.a. 

Aircraft 

Cessna  402    United  States 

Cessna  206    -do- 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  184; 

and  "World  Defence  Almanac,"  Military  Technology  [Bonn],  13,  No.  1,  January 
1989,  42 


295 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  19.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1989 

Country 

Type  and  Description  of  Origin  Inventory 
Fixed-wing  fighters 

AT-33N    Canada  14 

F-86F  Sabre    United  States  4 

Hughes  500M    -do-  10 

Counterinsurgency 

AT-6G    n.a.  12 

PC-7    Switzerland  12 

Fixed-wing  utility 

Cessna    United  States  24 

Trainers 

T-41D  Mescalero    -do-  6 

Cessna  172   -do-  3 

Cessna  310   -do-  2 

Cessna  A- 152    -do-  12 

T-23  Uriapuru   Brazil  18 

SF-260CB    Italy  6 

SF-260M    -do-  3 

PC-7    Switzerland  24 

T-33A    United  States  18 

Transports 

L-188  Electra    -do-  1 

Sabreliner  65    -do-  1 

Super  King  Air    -do-  3 

Cessna    -do-  3 

C-130  Hercules    -do-  6 

C-47    -do-  8 

IAI-201  Arava   Israel  4 

F27-400  Friendship    Netherlands  6 

L- 100-30  Hercules    United  States  1 

Convair  440    -do-  4 

PC-6B  Turbo  Porters    West  Germany  17 

Reconnaissance 

Learjet  25B    United  States  2 

Cessna  402B    -do-  1 

Helicopters 

UH-1H    -do-  7 

Bell  212    -do-  2 

SA-315B/HB-315B    France  8 

Artillery 

20-mm  Oerlikon  guns    Switzerland  50 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  184; 
and  "World  Defence  Almanac,"  Military  Technology  [Bonn],  13,  No.  1,  January 
1989,  42. 


296 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Albarracin  Millan,  Juan.  El  poder  minero  en  la  administration  liberal. 
La  Paz:  Editorial  Akapana,  1972. 

Albo,  Xavier.  Achacachi:  Medio  siglo  de  lucha  campesina,  19.  La  Paz: 
Cuadernos  de  Investigacion,  1979. 

 ''From  MNRistas  to  Kataristas  to  Katari."  Pages  379-419 

in  Steve  J.  Stern  (ed.),  Resistance,  Rebellion,  and  Consciousness  in 
the  Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th  Centuries.  Madison:  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 

Alexander,  Robert  J.  Bolivia:  Past,  Present,  and  Future  of  Its  Politics. 
(Praeger  Special  Studies  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

 "The  Labor  Movement  During  and  Since  the  1952  Revo- 
lution." Pages  58-80  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day 
Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe: 
Center  for  Latin  American  Studies,  Arizona  State  University, 
1982. 

Almaraz,  Sergio.  Petroleo  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial 

Juventud,  1958. 
 El  poder y  la  caida:  El  estano  en  la  historia  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz: 

Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1980. 
Amoyo-Zevallos,  Enrique.  "British  Policy  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific: 

Chile  v.  Peru  and  Bolivia,  1879-1884."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 

Pittsburgh:  Department  of  History,  University  of  Pittsburgh, 

1985. 

Andrade,  Victor.  My  Missions  for  Revolutionary  Bolivia,  1944-1962. 

Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1976. 
Andrien,  Kenneth  J.  "The  Sale  of  Fiscal  Offices  and  the  Decline 

of  Royal  Authority  in  the  Viceroy alty  of  Peru,  1633-1700," 

Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  62,  No.  1,  February  1982, 

49-72. 

Antezana  Ergueta,  Luis.  Herndn  Siles  Zuazo,  la  estrategia  de  la  contra- 
revolucion.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Luz,  1979. 

 Historia  secreta  del  movimiento  nationalists  revolucionario.  (5  vols.) 

La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial  Juventud,  1984-87. 

Arguedas,  Alcides.  Los  caudillos  bdrbaros.  La  Paz:  Gisbert,  1975. 

 Historia  de  Bolivia.  (5  vols.)  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial 

Juventud,  1981. 

 Pueblo  Enfermo.  Santiago,  Chile:  Ediciones  Ercilla,  1937. 

Arnade,  Charles.  The  Emergence  of  the  Republic  of  Bolivia.  Gaines- 
ville: University  of  Florida  Press,  1957. 


297 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Arzans  de  Orsua  y  Vela,  Bartolome.  Tales  of  Potosi.  Providence: 

Brown  University  Press,  1975. 
Arze  Aguirre,  Rene.  Participation  popular  en  la  independencia  de  Bolivia. 

La  Paz:  Organization  de  los  Estados  Americanos,  1979. 
Assadourian,  Carlo  Sempat.  El  sistema  de  la  economia  colonial.  Lima: 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Peruanos,  1982. 
Auld,  Leona  Ruth.  "Discontent  with  the  Spanish  System  of  Control 

in  Upper  Peru,  1730-1809."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Los  Angeles: 

University  of  California,  1963. 
Baciu,  Stefan.  Tristan  Marofde  cuerpo  entero.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Isla, 

1987. 

Bakewell,  Peter.  Miners  of  the  Red  Mountain:  Indian  Labor  in  Potosi, 
1545-1650.  Albuquerque:  University  of  New  Mexico  Press, 
1984. 

 Silver  and  Entrepreneurs  hip  in  Seventeenth- Century  Potosi.  Albu- 
querque: University  of  New  Mexico  Press,  1988. 

Baptista  Gumucio,  Mariano.  Historia  contempordnea  de  Bolivia, 
1930-1978.  La  Paz:  Gisbert,  1976. 

Barnadas,  Josep  M.  Charcas,  origenes  historicos  de  una  sociedad  colonial, 
1535-1565.  La  Paz:  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Promotion  del 
Campesinado,  1973. 

Barrios  de  Chungara,  Domitila.  Let  Me  Speak!  Testimony  of  Domi- 
tila,  a  Woman  of  the  Bolivian  Mines.  New  York:  Monthly  Review 
Press,  1978. 

Basadre,  Joree.  Peru,  Chile y  Bolivia  independiente.  Barcelona:  Salvat, 
1948. 

Bethell,  Leslie  (ed.).  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America.  (5  vols.) 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1984-86. 

Blasier,  Cole.  "The  United  States  and  the  Revolution."  Pages 
53-110  in  James  M.  Malloy  and  Richard  S.  Thorn  (eds.),  Be- 
yond the  Revolution:  Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of 
Pittsburgh  Press,  1971. 

 "The  United  States,  Germany,  and  the  Bolivian  Revolu- 
tionaries, 1941-1946,"  Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  52, 
No.  1,  February  1972,  26-54. 

Block,  David.  'Tn  Search  of  El  Dorado:  Spanish  Entry  into  Moxos, 
A  Tropical  Frontier,  1550-1767."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Austin: 
Department  of  History,  University  of  Texas,  1980. 

Boero  Rojo,  Hugo,  and  Oswaldo  Rivera  Sundt.  El fuerte preincaico 
de  Samaipata.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1979. 

Bonilla,  Heraclio.  "Peru  and  Bolivia  from  Independence  to  the 
War  of  the  Pacific."  Pages  539-82  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The 
Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America,  4-5.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1985. 


298 


Bibliography 


Brading,  David  H.,  and  Harry  E.  Cross.  "Colonial  Silver  Min- 
ing: Mexico  and  Peru,"  Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  52, 
No.  4,  November  1972,  545-79. 

Brill,  William  H.  "Military  Civic  Action  in  Bolivia."  (Ph.D.  dis- 
sertation.) Philadelphia:  Department  of  Political  Science,  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania,  1965. 

 .  Military  Intervention  in  Bolivia:  The  Overthrow  of  Paz  Estens- 

soro  and  the  MNR.  Washington:  Institute  for  the  Comparative 
Study  of  Political  Systems,  1967. 

Byrne  de  Caballero,  Geraldine.  "El  Tiwanaku  en  Cochabamba," 
Arqueologia  Boliviana  [La  Paz],  1,  No.  1,  1984,  67-71. 

Calderon,  Fernando,  and  Jorge  Dandier  (eds.).  Bolivia:  La  fuerza 
historica  del  campesinado.  Geneva:  Instituto  de  Investigaciones  de 
las  Naciones  Unidas  para  el  Desarrollo  Social,  1986. 

Campbell,  Leon  G.  "The  Army  of  Peru  and  the  Tupac  Amaru 
Revolt,  1780-1783,"  Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  56, 
No.  1,  February  1976,  31-57. 

 "Women  and  the  Great  Rebellion  in  Peru,  1780-1783," 

Americas,  42,  No.  2,  1985,  163-97. 

Canelas  Orellana,  Amado,  and  Juan  Canelas  Zannier.  Bolivia:  Coca 
cocaina,  subdesarrollo y  poder politico.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos 
del  Libro,  1983. 

Capoche,  Luis.  Relacion  general  de  la  villa  imperial  de  Potost.  Madrid: 
Ediciones  Atlas,  1959. 

Carrasco,  Benigno.  Hernando  Sties.  La  Paz:  Editorial  del  Estado, 
1961. 

Carrasco,  Manuel.  Jose  Ballividn,  1805-1852.  Buenos  Aires: 
Hachette,  1960. 

Carriaga,  Juan  L.  "The  Economic  Structure  of  Bolivia  after  1964." 
Pages  147-64  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia: 
Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center 
for  Latin  American  Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

Carter,  William  E.  Aymara  Communities  and  the  Bolivian  Agrarian  Re- 
form. Gainesville:  University  of  Florida  Press,  1964. 

 "Revolution  and  the  Agrarian  Sector."  Pages  233-68  in 

James  M.  Malloy  and  Richard  S.  Thorn  (eds.),  Beyond  the  Revo- 
lution: Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1971. 

Cespedes,  Augusto.  El  Presidente  Colgado.  Buenos  Aires:  Editorial 

J.  Alvarez,  1966. 
Cole,  Jeffrey  A.  The  Potosi Mita,  1573-1700:  Compulsory  Indian  Labor 

in  the  Andes.  Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1985. 
Collier,  George  A. ,  Renato  Rosaldo,  and  John  D.  Wirth  (eds.).  The 

Inca  and  Aztec  States,  1400-1800.  New  York:  Academic  Press,  1982. 


299 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Condarco  Morales,  Ramiro.  Origenes  de  la  nacion  Boliviana.  La  Paz: 

Instituto  Boliviano  de  Cultura,  1977. 
 .  Zdrate,  el  "Temible"  Willka:  Historia  de  la  rebelion  indigena 

de  1899.  La  Paz:  Impresa  y  Liberia  Renovacion,  1983. 
Crespo,  Alfonso.  Hernando  Sites:  El  poder  y  su  angustia.  La  Paz: 

Empresa  Editora  Siglo,  1985. 
Crespo,  Gutierrez  Alberto,  et  al.  La  vida  cotidiana  en  La  Paz  durante 

la  Guerra  de  Independencia,  1800-1825.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Univer- 

sidad  Mayor  de  San  Andres,  1975. 
Daireaux,  Max.  Melgarejo.  La  Paz:  Gisbert,  1958. 
Dandier,  Jorge,  and  Juan  A.  Torrico.  "From  the  National  Indi- 
genous Congress  to  the  Ayopaya  Rebellion:  Bolivia,  1945-1947." 

Pages  334-78  in  Steve  J.  Stern  (ed.),  Resistance,  Rebellion,  and 

Consciousness  in  the  Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th  Centuries. 

Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 
Delaine,  Bernard  Louis.  "Coca  Farming  in  the  Chapare,  Bolivia: 

A  Form  of  Collective  Innovation."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  St. 

Louis:  Department  of  Agriculture,  Saint  Louis  University,  1980. 
Diez  de  Medina,  Fernando.  Franz  Tamayo.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Isla, 

1967. 

 El  general  del  Pueblo,  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno.  La  Paz:  Editorial 

Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1972. 

Dunkerley,  James.  Rebellion  in  the  Veins:  Political  Struggle  in  Bolivia, 
1952-1982.  London:  Verso  Editions,  1984. 

Eder,  George  Jackson.  Inflation  and  Development  in  Latin  America:  A 
Case  History  of  Inflation  and  Stabilization  in  Bolivia.  Ann  Arbor: 
University  of  Michigan  Press,  1968. 

Elliott,  J. H.  "The  Spanish  Conquest  and  Settlement  of  America." 
Pages  149-206  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of 
Latin  America,  1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

Escobedo  Mansilla,  Ronald.  Control  fiscal  en  el  virreinato  Peruana. 
Madrid:  Alhambra,  1986. 

 El  tributo  indigena  en  el  Peru,  siglos  XVI y  XVII.  Pamplona: 

Ediciones  Universidad  de  Navarra,  1979. 

Fifer,  J.  Valerie.  Bolivia:  Land,  Location,  and  Politics  since  1825.  Lon- 
don: Cambridge  University  Press,  1972. 

 "The  Empire  Builders:  A  History  of  the  Bolivian  Rub- 
ber Boom  and  the  Rise  of  the  House  of  Suarez,  "Journal  of  Latin 
American  Studies  [Cambridge],  2,  No.  2,  November  1970,  113-46. 

 "The  Search  for  a  Series  of  Small  Successes:  Frontiers  of 

Settlement  in  Eastern  Bolivia,"  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies 
[Cambridge],  14,  No.  2,  November  1982,  407-32. 

Finot,  Enrique,  and  Mariano  Baptista  Gumucio.  Nueva  historia  de 
Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Gisbert,  1976. 


300 


Bibliography 


Fisher,  J. R.  Silver  Mines  and  Silver  Miners  in  Colonial  Peru,  1776-1824. 

Liverpool:  Centre  for  Latin  American  Studies,  University  of 

Liverpool,  1977. 
Fisher,  John.  "Royalism,  Regionalism,  and  Rebellion  in  Colonial 

Peru ,  1 808- 1815,"  Hispanic  A merican  Historical  Review,  59 ,  No .  2 , 

May  1979,  232-57. 
Flores,  Gonzalo.  "Levantamientos  campesinos  durante  el  Periodo 

Liberal  (1900-1920)."  Pages  121-34  in  Fernando  Calderon  and 

Jorge  Dandier  (eds.),  Bolivia:  Lafuerza  historica  del  campesinado . 

Geneva:  Instituto  de  Investigaciones  de  las  Naciones  Unidas  para 

el  Desarrollo  Social,  1986. 
Flores  Galindo,  Alberto  (ed.).  Tupac  Amaru  II- 1 780,  Antologia.  Lima: 

Retablo  de  Papel  Ediciones,  1976. 
Gallardo  Lozada,  Jorge.  De  Torres  a  Banzer:  Diez  meses  de  emergencia 

en  Bolivia.  Buenos  Aires:  Ediciones  Periferica,  1972. 
Gisbert,  Teresa.  Iconografiay  mitas  indigenes  en  el  arte.  La  Paz:  Gisbert, 

1980. 

Gomez  D'Angelo,  Walter.  La  mineria  en  el  desarrollo  economico  de 
Bolivia,  1900-1920.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro, 
1978. 

Gow,  Rosalind  Clare.  "Yawar  Mayu:  Revolution  in  the  Southern 

Andes,  1860-1980."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Madison:  Department 

of  History,  University  of  Wisconsin,  1981. 
Grieshaber,  Erwin  P.   "Survival  of  Indian  Communities  in 

Nineteenth-Century  Bolivia."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Chapel  Hill: 

Department  of  History,  University  of  North  Carolina,  1977. 
 "Survival  of  Indian  Communities  in  Nineteenth-Century 

Bolivia:  A  Regional  Comparison,  "Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies 

[Cambridge],  12,  No.  2,  November  1980,  233-69. 
Gumucio,  Jorge.  "Toward  a  Sociology  of  International  Relations: 

The  Case  of  the  Bolivian  Quest  for  an  Outlet  to  the  Sea. ' '  (Ph.D. 

dissertation.)  Pittsburgh:  Department  of  Political  Science, 

University  of  Pittsburgh,  1987. 
Guzman,  Au gusto.  Paz  Estenssoro.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos 

del  Libro,  1986. 
Haring,  C.H.  The  Spanish  Empire  in  America.  New  York:  Harcourt, 

Brace,  Jovanovich,  1974. 
Havet,  Jose.  The  Diffusion  of  Power:  Rural  Elites  in  a  Bolivian  Province. 

Ottawa:  University  of  Ottawa  Press,  1985. 
Heath,  Dwight  B.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Bolivia.  Metuchen,  New 

Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1972. 
Heath,  Dwight  B.,  Charles  J.  Erasmus,  and  Hans  C.  Buechler. 

Land  Reform  and  Social  Revolution  in  Bolivia.  New  York:  Praeger, 

1969. 


301 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Hemming,  John.  The  Conquest  of  the  Incas.  New  York:  Harcourt, 

Brace,  Jovanovich,  1970. 
Hillman,  John.   "Bolivia  and  the  International  Tin  Cartel, 

1931-1941,"  Journal  oj  Latin  American  Studies  [Cambridge],  20, 

No.  1,  May  1988,  83-110. 
 .  "The  Emergence  of  the  Tin  Industry  in  Bolivia,"  Jo ur- 

nal  of  Latin  American  Studies  [Cambridge],  16,  No.  2,  November 

1984,  403-37. 

Holland,  James  E.  "Bolivia's  Relations  with  Chile  and  Peru:  Hopes 
and  Realities."  Pages  123-44  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern 
Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Future. 
Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American  Studies,  Arizona  State 
University,  1982. 

Hyslop,  John.  "An  Archaeological  Investigation  of  the  Lu  Paca 
Kingdom  and  Its  Origins."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  York: 
Department  of  Anthropology,  Columbia  University,  1976. 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Polfticos  para  America  Latina  y  Africa.  Nar- 
cotrafico y  politica:  Militarismo y  mafia  en  Bolivia.  Madrid:  Graficas 
Marcaritas,  1982. 

Jacobsen,  Nils,  and  Hans-Jiirgen  Puhle.  The  Economies  of  Mexico 
and  Peru  During  the  Late  Colonial  Period,  1760-1810.  Berlin:  Col- 
loquium Verlag,  1986. 

Jennings,  Jesse  D.  (ed.).  Ancient  South  Americans.  San  Francisco: 
Freeman,  1983. 

Kelley,  Jonathan,  and  Herbert  S.  Klein.  Revolution  and  the  Rebirth 
of  Inequality.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 

Kiernan,  V.G.  "Foreign  Interests  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific," 
Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  35,  No.  1,  February  1955, 
14-36. 

Klein,  Herbert  S.  Bolivia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi- Ethnic  Society.  New 
York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 

.  "Bolivia  from  the  War  of  the  Pacific  to  the  Chaco  War, 
1880-1932."  Pages  553-86  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge 
History  of  Latin  America,  5.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1986. 

 .  "Bolivia  Prior  to  the  Revolution."  Pages  15-26  in  Jerry 

R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and 
Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American  Studies, 
Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

 "Hacienda  and  Free  Community  in  Eighteenth-Century 

Alto  Peru:  A  Demographic  Study  of  the  Aymara  Population  of 
the  Districts  of  Chulumani  and  Pacajes  in  1786 ,"  Journal  of  Latin 
American  Studies  [Cambridge],  7,  No.  2,  November  1975,  193- 
200. 


302 


Bibliography 


 .  Parties  and  Political  Change  in  Bolivia,  1880-1952.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1971. 

 .  "Prelude  to  the  Revolution."  Pages  25-52  in  James  M. 

Malloy  and  Richard  S.  Thorn  (eds.),  Beyond  the  Revolution:  Bolivia 
since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1971. 

 .  "The  State  and  the  Labor  Market  in  Rural  Bolivia  in  the 

Colonial  and  Early  Republican  Periods."  Pages  95-106  in  Karen 
Spalding  (ed.),  Essays  in  the  Political,  Economic,  and  Social  History 
of  Colonial  Latin  America.  Newark:  Latin  American  Studies  Pro- 
gram, University  of  Delaware,  1982. 

 .  "The  Structure  of  the  Hacendado  Class  in  Late  18th- 
century  Alto  Peru:  The  Intendencia  de  La  Paz,"  Hispanic  Ameri- 
can Historical  Review,  60,  No.  2,  May  1980,  191-212. 

Knudson,  Jerry.  Bolivia:  Press  and  Revolution,  1932-1964.  Lanham, 
Maryland:  University  Press  of  America,  1986. 

 Bolivia's  Popular  Assembly  of  1971  and  the  Overthrow  of  Juan 

Jose  Torres.  Buffalo:  Council  on  International  Studies,  1974. 

Kolata,  Alan  L.  "The  Agricultural  Foundation  of  the  Tiwanaku 
State:  A  View  From  the  Heartland,"  American  Antiquity,  51, 
No.  4,  1986,  748-62. 

Ladman,  Jerry  R.  "Failure  to  Democratize."  Pages  345-70  in  Jerry 
R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and 
Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American  Studies, 
Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

Ladman,  Jerry  R.  (ed.).  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution 
and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American 
Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

 "The  Political  Economy  of  the  'Economic  Miracle'  of 

the  Banzer  Regime."  Pages  321-44  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.), 
Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Fu- 
ture. Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American  Studies,  Arizona  State 
University,  1982. 

Langer,  Erick  D.  Economic  Change  and  Rural  Resistance  in  Southern 
Bolivia,  1880-1930.  Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1989. 

 .  "Labor  Strikes  and  Reciprocity  on  Chuquisaca  Hacien- 
das," Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  65,  No.  2,  May  1985, 
255-77. 

 .  "Rural  Society  and  Land  Consolidation  in  a  Declining 

Economy:  Chuquisaca,  Bolivia  1880-1930."  (Ph.D.  disserta- 
tion.) Stanford:  Department  of  Agriculture,  Stanford  Univer- 
sity, 1984. 

Larson,  Brooke.  "The  Cochabamba  Region  of  Upper  Peru,  1700- 
1830."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  York:  Department  of  Anthro- 
pology, Columbia  University,  1978. 


303 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


 .  Colonialism  and  Agrarian  Transformation  in  Bolivia:  Cochabamba, 

1550-1900.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1988. 
Lennon,  Thomas  J.  "Raised  Fields  of  Lake  Titicaca,  Peru:  A  Pre- 

hispanic  Water  Management  System."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 

Boulder:  Department  of  Archaeology,  University  of  Colorado, 

1982. 

Lofstrom,  William.  "Attempted  Economic  Reform  and  Innova- 
tion in  Bolivia  under  Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre,  1825-1828,"  His- 
panic American  Historical  Review,  50,  No.  2,  May  1970,  279-99. 

 Attitudes  of  an  Industrial  Pressure  Group  in  Latin  America:  The 

'Asociacion  de  Industrials  Mineros  de  Bolivia,  "  1925-1935.  (Latin 
American  Studies  Program,  Dissertation  Series,  No.  9.)  Ithaca: 
Cornell  University,  1968. 

 .  Damaso  de  Uriburu,  un  empresario  minero  de  principios  del  sigh 

XIX  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Biblioteca  Minera  de  Bolivia,  1982. 

 The  Promise  and  Problem  of  Reform:  Attempted  Social  and  Eco- 
nomic Change  in  the  First  Years  of  Bolivian  Independence.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1972. 

Lora,  Guillermo.  Documentos  politicos  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1970. 

 A  History  of  the  Bolivian  Labour  Movement,  1848-1971.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1977. 

Lumbreras,  Luis  Guillermo.  Los  origines  de  la  civilizacion  en  el  Peru. 
Lima:  Editorial  Carlos  Milla  Batres,  1974. 

 .  The  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Ancient  Peru.  Washington:  Smith- 
sonian Institution  Press,  1976. 

Lynch,  John.  The  Spanish  American  Revolutions,  1808-1826.  New 
York:  W.W.  Norton,  1986. 

McEwen,  William  J.  Changing  Rural  Society:  A  Study  of  Communities 
in  Bolivia.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1975. 

MacLeod,  Murdo.  "The  Bolivian  Novel,  the  Chaco  War,  and  the 
Revolution."  Pages  341-69  in  James  M.  Malloy  and  Richard  S. 
Thorn  (eds.),  Beyond  the  Revolution:  Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1971. 

Magill,  John.  Labor  Unions  and  Political  Socialization  in  Bolivia:  A  Case 
Study  of  Bolivian  Workers.  New  York:  Praeger,  1974. 

Malloy,  James  M.  Bolivia:  The  Uncompleted  Revolution.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1970. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra.  Revolution  and  Reac- 
tion: Bolivia,  1964-1985.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Trans- 
action Books,  1988. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Sylvia  Rodzutsky.  "The  Praetorianiza- 
tion  of  the  Revolution:  1964-1967."  Pages  43-58  in  Jerry  R. 
Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and 


304 


Bibliography 


Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American  Studies, 
Arizona  State  University,  1982. 
Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Richard  S.  Thorn  (eds.).  Beyond  the  Revo- 
lution: Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1971. 

Marsh,  Margaret  A.  Bankers  in  Bolivia:  A  Study  in  American  Foreign 

Investment.  New  York:  AMS  Press,  1970. 
Mendoza,  Gunwar.  El  Doctor  Pedro  Vicente  Canetey  su  Historia  Fisica 

y  Politica  de  Potosi.  Sucre,  Bolivia:  Universidad  de  San  Francisco 

Javier,  1954. 

Mitchell,  Christopher.  The  Legacy  of  Populism  in  Bolivia:  From  the 
MNR  to  Military  Rule.  (Praeger  Special  Studies  in  International 
Politics  and  Government  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Mitre,  Antonio.  ' '  Economic  and  Social  Structure  of  Silver  Min- 
ing in  Nineteenth-Century  Bolivia."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New 
York:  Department  of  History,  Columbia  University,  1977. 

Morales,  Juan  Antonio.  "The  Bolivian  External  Sector  after  1964." 
Pages  193-232  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia: 
Legacy  of  the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center 
for  Latin  American  Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

Moreno,  Gabriel  Rene.  Matanzas  de  Yanez.  La  Paz:  Libreria  Edi- 
torial Juventud,  1976. 

Murra,  John  V.  "Andean  Societies  Before  1532."  Pages  59-90 
in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America,  1 . 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

 "Aymara  Lords  and  Their  European  Agents  at  Potosi," 

Nova  Americana  [Turin],  1,  No.  1,  1978,  710-28. 

 The  Economic  Organization  of  the  Inca  State.  Greenwich,  Con- 
necticut: JAI  Press,  1980. 

 "The  Expansion  of  the  Inca  States:  Armies,  War,  and 

Rebellions."  Pages  49-58  in  John  V.  Murra,  Nathan  Wachtel, 
and  Jacques  Revel  (eds.),  Anthropological  History  of  Andean  Polities. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1986. 

Nash,  June.  We  Eat  the  Mines,  and  the  Mines  Eat  Us:  Dependency  and 
Exploitation  in  Bolivian  Tin  Mines.  New  York:  Columbia  Univer- 
sity Press,  1979. 

Oakland,  Amy  Sue.  "Tiwanaku  Textile  Style  from  the  South  Cen- 
tral Andes,  Bolivia,  and  North  Chile."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 
Austin:  University  of  Texas,  1986. 

O'Phelan  Godoy,  Scarlett.  Rebellions  and  Revolts  in  Eighteenth-Century 
Peru  and  Upper  Peru.  Cologne:  Bohlau  Verlag,  1985. 

Ortega,  Luis.  "Nitrates,  Chilean  Entrepreneurs,  and  the  Origins 
of  the  War  of  the  Pacific,  "Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies  [Cam- 
bridge], 16,  No.  2,  November  1984,  337-80. 


305 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Ovando-Sanz,  Jorge  Alejandro.  El  Tributo  Indigena  en  las  Finanzas 
Bolivianos  del  Siglo  XIX.  La  Paz:  Comite  Ejecutivo  de  la  Univer- 
sidad  Boliviana,  1985. 

Pacini,  Deborah,  and  Christine  Franquemont  (eds.).  Coca  and  Co- 
caine: Effects  on  People  and  Policy  in  Latin  America.  (Cultural  Sur- 
vival Report,  No.  23.)  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Cultural 
Survival,  1986. 

Padilla  Arancbia,  David.  Decisionesy  recuerdos  de  un  general.  La  Paz: 
Urquizo,  1982. 

Parkerson,  Philip  Taylor.  Andres  Santa  Cruz y  la  Confederacion  Peru- 
Boliviana.  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial  Juventud,  1984. 

Pearse,  Andrew.  "Campesinado  y  revolucion:  El  caso  de  Bolivia." 
Pages  313-62  in  Fernando  Calderon  and  Jorge  Dandier  (eds.), 
Bolivia:  La  fuerza  historica  del  campesinado.  Geneva:  Instituto  de  In- 
vestigaciones  de  las  Naciones  Unidas  para  el  Desarrollo  Social, 
1986. 

Penaloza,  Luis.  Historia  del  Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucionario, 
1941-1952.  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial  Juventud,  1963. 

 .  Historia  Economica  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial 

Juventud,  1954. 

Pentland,  Joseph  Barclay.  Informe  so bre  Bolivia,  1827.  Potosi:  Edi- 
torial Potosi,  1975. 

Pike,  Frederick  B.  The  United  States  and  the  Andean  Republics:  Peru, 
Bolivia,  and  Ecuador.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1977. 

Piatt,  Tristan.  "The  Andean  Experience  of  Bolivian  Liberalism, 
1825-1900:  Roots  of  Rebellion  in  19th-century  Chayanta 
(Potosi)."  Pages  280-326  in  Steve  J.  Stern  (ed.),  Resistance,  Re- 
bellion, and  Consciousness  in  the  Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th 
Centuries.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 

Ponce  Sanjines,  Carlos.  Descripcion  Sumaria  del  Templete  Semisubter- 
rdneo  de  Tiwanaku.  La  Paz:  Librena  Editorial  Juventud,  1981. 

Prado  Salmon,  Gary.  Podery  fuerzas  armadas:  1949-1982.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1984. 

Prudencio  Bustillo,  Ignacio.  Pdginas  dispersas.  Sucre:  Universidad 
de  San  Francisco  Xavier  de  Chuquisaca,  1946. 

Ramirez  del  Aguila,  Pedro.  Noticias politicas  de  Indias  (1639).  Sucre: 
Division  de  Extension  Universitaria,  1978. 

Rasnake,  Roger  Neil.  "The  Kurahkuna  of  Yura:  Indigenous  Author- 
ities of  Colonial  Charcas  and  Contemporary  Bolivia."  (Ph.D. 
dissertation.)  Ithaca:  Department  of  Anthropology,  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, 1982. 

Rivera  Cusicanqui,  Silvia.  Oprimidos  pero  no  vencidos.  Geneva:  In- 
stituto de  Investigaciones  de  las  Naciones  Unidas  para  el  Desar- 
rollo Social,  1986. 


306 


Bibliography 


Rout,  Leslie  B.  Politics  of  the  Chaco  Peace  Conference,  1935-1939. 
Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1970. 

Schreiber,  Katharina.  "Conquest  and  Consolidation:  A  Compar- 
ison of  the  Wari  and  Inca  Occupations  of  a  Highland  Peruvian 
Valley,"  American  Antiquity,  52,  No.  2,  1987,  266-84. 

Snyder  Phillips,  Richard.  "Bolivia  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific, 
1879-1880."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Charlottesville:  Department 
of  History,  University  of  Virginia,  1973. 

Spalding,  Hobart  A.  Organized  Labor  in  Latin  America.  New  York: 
Harper  and  Row,  1977. 

Spalding,  Karen  (ed).  Essays  in  the  Political,  Economic,  and  Social  His- 
tory of  Colonial  Latin  America.  Newark:  Latin  American  Studies 
Program,  University  of  Delaware,  1982. 

 .  Huarochiri:  An  Andean  Society  under  Inca  and  Spanish  Rule. 

Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1984. 

Stavig,  Ward.  "Ethnic  Conflict,  Moral  Economy,  and  Population 
in  Rural  Cuzco  on  the  Eve  of  the  Tupac  Amaro  II  Rebellion," 
Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  68,  No.  4,  November  1988, 
737-70. 

Stern,  Steve  J.  "The  Age  of  Andean  Insurrection,  1742-1780:  A 
Reappraisal."  Pages  34-93  in  Steve  J.  Stern  (ed.),  Resistance, 
Rebellion,  and  Consciousness  in  the  Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th 
Centuries.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 

 Peru  ys  Indian  Peoples  and  the  Challenge  of  Conquest.  Madison: 

University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1982. 

 '  'The  Rise  and  Fall  of  Indian- White  Alliances:  A  Regional 

View  of  Conquest  History,"  Hispanic  American  Historical  Review, 
61,  No.  3,  August  1981,  429-60. 

Stern,  Steve  J.  (ed.).  Resistance,  Rebellion,  and  Consciousness  in  the 
Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th  Centuries.  Madison:  University 
of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 

Stokes,  Charles  E.  "The  Acre  Revolutions,  1899-1903:  A  Study 
in  Brazilian  Expansionism."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  Orleans: 
Department  of  History,  Tulane  University,  1974. 

Tandeter,  Enrique.  Trabajo  forzado y  trabajo  libre  en  el  Potosi  colonial 
tardio.  Buenos  Aires:  Estudios  de  Estado  y  Sociedad,  1980. 

Te  Paske,  John  J.  "The  Fiscal  Structure  of  Upper  Peru  and  the 
Financing  of  Empire."  Pages  69-94  in  Karen  Spalding  (ed.), 
Essays  in  the  Political,  Economic,  and  Social  History  of  Colonial  Latin 
America.  Newark:  Latin  American  Studies  Program,  University 
of  Delaware,  1982. 

 .  Research  Guide  to  Andean  History:  Bolivia,  Chile,  Ecuador,  and 

Peru.  Durham:  Duke  University  Press,  1981. 


307 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Torres,  Juan  Jose.  En  defensa  de  mi  nacion  oprimida.  La  Paz:  Edi- 
ciones  Isla,  1985. 

Wachtel,  Nathan.  "The  Indian  and  the  Spanish  Conquest."  Pages 
207-48  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  Amer- 
ica, 1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

 "The  Mitimas  of  the  Cochabamba  Valley:  The  Coloni- 
zation Policy  of  Huayna  Capac."  Pages  199-236  in  George  A. 
Collier,  Renato  I.  Rosaldo,  and  John  D.  Wirth  (eds.),  The  Inca 
and  Aztec  States,  1400-1800.  New  York:  Academic  Press,  1982. 

 .  The  Vision  of  the  Vanquished:  The  Spanish  Conquest  Through 

Indian  Eyes,  1530-1570.  New  York:  Barnes  and  Noble,  1977. 

Wagner,  Maria  Luise.  "Reformism  in  the  Bolivian  Armed  Forces: 
Juan  Jose  Torres,  A  Case  Study."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Wash- 
ington: Department  of  History,  Georgetown  University,  1986. 

West,  Terry  Lee.  "Sufriendo  Nos  Vamos:  From  a  Subsistence  to 
a  Market  Economy  in  an  Aymara  Community  of  Bolivia." 
(Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  York:  New  School  for  Social  Research, 
1981. 

Whitehead,  Laurence.  "Miners  as  Voters:  The  Electoral  Process 
in  Bolivia's  Mining  Camps,"  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies 
[Cambridge],  13,  No.  2,  November  1981,  313-46. 

Widerkehr,  Doris  E.  "Bolivia's  Nationalized  Mines:  A  Compari- 
son of  a  Cooperative  and  State-Managed  Community."  (Ph.D. 
dissertation.)  New  York:  Department  of  Economics,  New  York 
University,  1975. 

Wilgus,  A.  Curtis.  Historical  Atlas  of  Latin  America:  Political,  Geo- 
graphic, Economic,  Cultural.  New  York:  Cooper  Square,  1967. 

Wilkie,  James  W.  The  Bolivian  Revolution  and  United  States  Aid  since 
1952.  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1969. 

Wittman,  Tibor.  Estudios  histdricos  sobre  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
El  Siglo,  1975. 

Zavala,  Silvio.  El  servicio  personal  de  los  Indios  en  el  Peru:  Extractos  del 
siglo  XVII.  Mexico  City:  El  Colegio  de  Mexico,  1979. 

Zavaleta  Mercado,  Rene  (ed.).  Bolivia,  hoy.  Mexico  City:  Siglo 
Veintiuno  Editores,  1983. 

 .  Las  masas  en  Noviembre.  La  Paz:  Libreria  Editorial  Juven- 

tud,  1983. 

 .  El poder  dual.  Mexico  City:  Siglo  Veintiuno  Editores,  1979. 

Zondag,  Cornelius  H.  The  Bolivian  Economy ,  1952-1965:  The  Revo- 
lution and  Its  Aftermath.  (Praeger  Special  Studies  in  Economics 
and  Development  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1966. 

Zulawki,  Ann.  "Labor  and  Migration  in  Seventeenth-Century  Alto 
Peru."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  York:  Department  of  Econom- 
ics, Columbia  University,  1985. 


308 


Bibliography 

Chapter  2 

Albo,  Xavier.  ''^Khitipxtansa?  ^Quienes  somos?  Identidad  localista, 
etnica  y  clasista  en  los  aymaras  de  hoy,"  America  Indigena  [Mexico 
City],  39,  No.  3,  July- September  1979,  477-527. 

Annuario  pontificio  per  I'anno  1986.  Vatican  City:  Libreria  Editrice 
Vaticana,  1986. 

Bakewell,  Peter.  Miners  of  the  Red  Mountain:  Indian  Labor  in  Potosi, 
1545-1650.  Albuquerque:  University  of  New  Mexico  Press, 
1984. 

Blakemore,  Harold,  and  Clifford  Smith  (eds.).  Latin  America:  Geo- 
graphical Perspectives.  (2d  ed.)  New  York:  Methuen,  1983. 

Bolivia.  Instituto  Geografico  Militar.  Atlas  de  Bolivia.  Barcelona: 
Geomundo,  1985. 

 Ministerio  de  Planeamiento  y  Coordinacion.  Instituto  Na- 

cional  de  Estadistica.  Bolivia  en  cifras,  1985.  La  Paz:  1986. 

 Ministerio  de  Planeamiento  y  Coordinacion.  Instituto  Na- 

cional  de  Estadistica.  Estimaciones  de  la  poblacion  por  departamentos 
y  ciudades  capitales,  1980-1990.  La  Paz:  1980. 

Bolton,  Ralph.  "The  Quolla  Marriage  Process."  Pages  217-39 
in  Ralph  Bolton  and  Enrique  Mayer  (eds.),  Andean  Kinship  and 
Marriage.  (American  Anthropological  Association  Special  Pub- 
lication Series,  No.  7.)  Washington:  American  Anthropologi- 
cal Association,  1977. 

Bolton,  Ralph,  and  Enrique  Mayer  (eds.).  Andean  Kinship  and  Mar- 
riage. (American  Anthropological  Association  Special  Publica- 
tion Series,  No.  7.)  Washington:  American  Anthropological 
Association,  1977. 

Briggs,  Lucy  Therina.  "Bilingual  Education  in  Bolivia."  Pages 
84-95  in  Andrew  W.  Miracle  (ed.),  Bilingualism:  Social  Issues  and 
Policy  Implications.  (Southern  Anthropological  Proceedings  Series, 
No.  16.)  Athens:  University  of  Georgia  Press,  1983. 

Brooks,  John  (ed.).  1988  South  American  Handbook.  Bath,  Avon, 
United  Kingdom:  Trade  and  Travel,  1987. 

Buechler,  Hans  C.  The  Masked  Media:  Aymara  Fiestas  and  Social  In- 
teraction in  the  Bolivian  Highlands.  (Approaches  to  Semiotics  Series, 
No.  59.)  New  York:  Mouton,  1980. 

 "The  Ritual  Dimension  of  Rural-Urban  Networks:  The 

Fiesta  System  in  the  Northern  Highlands  of  Bolivia."  Pages 
62-71  in  William  Mangin  (comp.),  Peasants  in  Cities:  Readings 
in  the  Anthropology  of  Urbanization.  New  York:  Houghton  Mifflin, 
1970. 

Buechler,  HansC,  and  Judith-Maria  Buechler.  The  Bolivian  Aymara. 
New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart,  and  Winston,  1971. 


309 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


 .  ''Conduct  and  Code:  An  Analysis  of  Market  Syndicates 

and  Social  Revolution  in  La  Paz,  Bolivia."  Pages  174-84  in  June 
Nash,  Juan  Corradi,  and  Hobart  Spalding,  Jr.  (eds.),  Ideology 
and  Social  Change  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach, 
1977. 

Buechler,  Judith-Maria.  "Women  in  Petty  Commodity  Produc- 
tion in  La  Paz,  Bolivia."  Pages  165-88  in  June  Nash  and  Helen 
I.  Safa  (eds.),  Women  and  Change  in  Latin  America.  South  Hadley, 
Massachusetts:  Bergin  and  Garvey,  1985. 

Burchard,  Roderick  E.  "Coca  Chewing:  A  New  Perspective." 
Pages  463-84  in  Vera  Rubin  (ed.),  Cannabis  and  Culture.  The 
Hague:  Mouton,  1975. 

Budand,  Gilbert  J.  Latin  America:  A  Regional  Geography.  (3d  ed.)  New 
York:  Halsted  Press,  1972. 

Carter,  William  E.  Bolivia:  A  Profile.  New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 

 .  ' ' Trial  Marriage  in  the  Andes? ' '  Pages  1 7 7-2 1 6  in  Ralph 

Bolton  and  Enrique  Mayer  (eds.),  Andean  Kinship  and  Marriage. 
(American  Anthropological  Association  Special  Publication 
Series,  No.  7.)  Washington:  American  Anthropological  Associ- 
ation, 1977. 

Casanovas  Sainz,  Roberto,  and  Antonio  Rojas  Rosales.  Santa  Cruz 
de  la  Sierra:  Crecimiento  urbanoy  situacion  ocupacional.  La  Paz:  Cen- 
tro  de  Estudios  para  el  Desarrollo  Laboral  y  Agrario,  Centro 
de  Investigacion  y  Documentacion  de  Santa  Cruz,  1988. 

Centro  de  Promocion  del  Laicado  "Ricardo  Bacherer."  Bolivia: 
La  iglesiay  la  politica  economica  del  gobierno  Paz  Estenssoro.  La  Paz: 
1985. 

Collins,  Jane.  "Translation  Traditions  and  the  Organization  of 
Productive  Activity:  The  Case  of  Aymara  Affinal  Kinship 
Terms."  Pages  11-21  in  Andrew  W.  Miracle  (ed.),  Bilingual- 
ism:  Social  Issues  and  Policy  Implications.  (Southern  Anthropologi- 
cal Proceedings  Series,  No.  16.)  Athens:  University  of  Georgia 
Press,  1983.  " 

Copana  Yapita,  Pedro.  "Linguistics  and  Education  in  Rural 
Schools  among  the  Aymara."  Pages  255-61  in  M.J.  Hardman 
(ed.),  The  Aymara  Language  in  Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Col- 
lection of  Essays  on  Aspects  of  Aymara  Language  and  Culture.  (Univer- 
sity of  Florida  Monographs,  Social  Sciences  Series,  No.  67.) 
Gainesville:  University  of  Florida  Press,  1981. 

Custred,  Glynn.  "Applied  Linguistics  and  National  Integration: 
Some  Proposals  for  the  Case  of  Quechua  and  Aymara  in  Bolivia. ' ' 
Pages  271-81  in  M.J.  Hardman  (ed.),  The  Aymara  Language  in 
Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on  Aspects  of  Aymara 
Language  and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida  Monographs,  Social 


310 


Bibliography 


Sciences  Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville:  University  of  Florida  Press, 
1981. 

Dandier,  Jorge.  "  'Low  Classness'  or  Wavering  Populism?  A  Peas- 
ant Movement  in  Bolivia."  Pages  142-73  in  June  Nash,  Juan 
Corradi,  and  Hobart  Spalding,  Jr.  (eds.),  Ideology  and  Social  Change 
in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1977. 

Escobar  de  Pabon,  Silvia,  and  Carmen  Ledo  Garcia.  Urbanizacion, 
migraciones ,  y  empleo  en  la  ciudad  de  Cochabamba.  La  Paz:  Centro 
de  Estudios  para  el  Desarrollo  Laboral  y  Agrario,  Centro  de  In- 
vestigacion  y  Desarrollo  Regional,  1988. 

Fifer,  J.  Valerie.  "The  Search  for  a  Series  of  Small  Successes:  Fron- 
tiers of  Settlement  in  Eastern  Bolivia,  "Journal  of  Latin  American 
Studies  [Cambridge],  14,  No.  2,  November  1982,  407-32. 

Foxman,  Betsy,  Ralph  R.  Frerichs,  and  James  N.  Becht.  "Health 
Status  of  Migrants,"  Human  Biology,  56,  No.  1,  February  1984, 
129-41. 

Gill,  Lesley.  Peasants,  Entrepreneurs,  and  Social  Change:  Frontier  De- 
velopment in  Lowland  Bolivia.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1987. 

Godoy,  Ricardo  A.  "Bolivian  Mining,"  Latin  American  Research 
Review,  20,  No.  1,  1985,  272-77. 

 "From  Indian  to  Miner  and  Back  Again:  Small  Scale  Min- 
ing in  the  Jukumani  Ayllu,  Northern  Potosi,  Bolivia."  (Ph.D. 
dissertation.)  New  York:  Department  of  Economics,  Columbia 
University,  1983. 

 .  "Human  Fertility  and  Land  Tenure  in  Highland  Bolivia," 

Social  Biology,  31,  Nos.  3-4,  Fall-Winter  1984,  290-97. 

Gugler,  Josef.  "The  Urban  Character  of  Contemporary  Revolu- 
tions," Studies  in  International  Development,  17,  Summer  1982, 
60-73. 

Hardman,  M.J.  (ed.).  The  Aymara  Language  in  Its  Social  and  Cul- 
tural Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on  Aspects  of  Aymara  Language 
and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida  Monographs,  Social  Sciences 
Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville:  University  of  Florida  Press,  1981. 

Harman,  Inge  Maria.  "Women  and  Cooperative  Labor:  The  Yura 
of  the  Southern  Bolivian  Andes,"  Cultural  Survival  Quarterly,  8, 
No.  2,  1984,  38-40. 

Harris,  Olivia.  "Ecological  Duality  and  the  Role  of  the  Center: 
Northern  Potosi."  Pages  311-35  in  Shozo  Masuda,  Izumi 
Shimada,  and  Craig  Morris  (eds.),  Andean  Ecology  and  Civiliza- 
tion: An  Interdisciplinary  Perspective  on  Andean  Ecological  Complemen- 
tarity. (Papers  from  Werner-Gren  Foundation  for  Anthropological 
Research  Symposium  Series,  No.  91.)  Tokyo:  University  of 
Tokyo  Press,  1985. 


311 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


 "Labour  and  Produce  in  an  Ethnic  Economy,  Northern 

Potosi,  Bolivia."  Pages  70-96  in  David  Lehmann  (ed.),  Ecology 
and  Exchange  in  the  Andes.  (Cambridge  Studies  in  Social  Anthro- 
pology Series,  No.  6.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1982. 

Healy,  Kevin.  "The  Boom  Within  the  Crisis:  Some  Recent  Ef- 
fects of  Foreign  Cocaine  Markets  on  Bolivia's  Rural  Society  and 
Economy."  Pages  101-45  in  Deborah  Pacini  and  Christine  Fran- 
quemont  (eds.),  Coca  and  Cocaine:  Effects  on  People  and  Policy  in 
Latin  America.  (Cultural  Survival  Report  Series,  No.  23.)  Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts:  Cultural  Survival,  1986. 

 "Coca,  the  State,  and  the  Peasantry  in  Bolivia,  1982- 

1988,"  Journal  of '  Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  30,  Nos.  2- 
3,  Summer-Fall  1988,  105-26. 

Heath,  Dwight  B.  "New  Patrons  for  Old:  Changing  Patron-Client 
Relationships  in  the  Bolivian  Yungas,"  Ethnology,  12,  No.  1, 
January  1973,  75-98. 

 "Peasants,  Revolution,  and  Drinking:  Interethnic  Drink- 
ing Patterns  in  Two  Bolivian  Communities,"  Human  Organiza- 
tion, 30,  No.  2,  Summer  1971,  179-86. 

Hickman,  John  M.,  and  Jack  Brown.  "Adaptation  of  Aymara  and 
Quechua  to  the  Bicultural  Social  Context  of  Bolivian  Mines," 
Human  Organization,  30,  No.  4,  Winter  1971,  359-66. 

Hiraoka,  Mario.  "Settlement  and  Development  of  the  Upper 
Amazon:  The  East  Bolivian  Example,"  Journal  of Developing  Areas, 
14,  No.  3,  April  1980,  327-47. 

Hoyos,  Mario.  "Social  Insurance  in  Bolivia,"  International  Social 
Security  Review  [Geneva],  31,  No.  2,  1978,  187-204. 

La  iglesia  de  Bolivia:  ^Compromiso  o  traicion?  De  MedelUn  a  Puebla:  Ensayo 
de  andlisis  historico.  La  Paz:  1978. 

Instituto  Boliviano  de  Cultura.  Instituto  Nacional  de  Antropolo- 
gia,  and  Sede  Nacional  del  Instituto  Andino  de  Artes  Populares. 
Mapa  Etnolinguistico  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  1988. 

International  Program  of  Laboratories  for  Population  Statistics 
Staff.  The  1980  Bolivia  National  Demographic  Survey:  A  Summary  of 
Results.  (Laboratories  for  Population  Statistics  Summary  Series, 
No.  3.)  Chapel  Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina,  December 
1981. 

Isbell,  Billie  Jean.  To  Defend  Ourselves:  Ecology  and  Ritual  in  an  Andean 
Village.  Prospect  Heights,  Illinois:  Waveland  Press,  1985. 

James,  Preston  E.  Latin  America.  (3d  ed.)  New  York:  Odyssey  Press, 
1959. 

Kashiwazaki,  Hiroshi.  "Agricultural  Practices  and  Household 
Organization  in  a  Japanese  Pioneer  Community  of  Lowland 


312 


Bibliography 


Bolivia,"  Human  Ecology,  11,  No.  3,  September  1983,  283- 
320. 

Keller,  Gordon  N.  "The  Maternal  Kin  Unit  in  Bolivian  Urban 
Adaptation,"  International  Journal  of  Women's  Studies,  6,  No.  4, 
1983,  336-51. 

Klein,  Herbert  S.  Bolivia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society.  New 
York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 

Lambert,  Berndt.  " Bilaterality  in  the  Andes."  Pages  1-27  in  Ralph 
Bolton  and  Enrique  Mayer  (eds.),  Andean  Kinship  and  Marriage. 
(American  Anthropological  Association  Special  Publication 
Series,  No.  7.)  Washington:  American  Anthropological  Associ- 
ation, 1977. 

Laprade,  Richard  A.  "Some  Cases  of  Aymara  Influence  on  La 
Paz  Spanish."  Pages  207-27  in  M.J.  Hardman  (ed.),  The  Aymara 
Language  in  Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on 
Aspects  of  Aymara  Language  and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida 
Monographs,  Social  Sciences  Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville: 
University  of  Florida  Press,  1981. 

Larson,  Brooke.  Colonialism  and  Agrarian  Transformation  in  Bolivia: 
Cochabamba,  1550-1900.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1988. 

Lehmann,  David  (ed.).  Ecology  and  Exchange  in  the  Andes.  (Cambridge 
Series  in  Social  Anthropology,  No.  6.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1982. 

Leons,  Madeline  Barbara.  "Race,  Ethnicity,  and  Political  Mobili- 
zation in  the  Andes,"  American  Ethnologist,  5,  No.  3,  August  1978, 
484-95. 

Leons,  William.  "Pluralism  and  Mobility  in  a  Bolivian  Commu- 
nity," El  Dorado,  2,  No.  3,  1977,  36-50. 

Lewis,  Norman.  Eastern  Bolivia:  The  White  Promised  Land.  (Docu- 
ment No.  31.)  Copenhagen:  International  Secretariat  of  the  Inter- 
national Work  Group  for  Indigenous  Affairs,  1978. 

McCoy,  John  A.  "The  Catholic  Church  in  Bolivia,"  America,  157, 
October  24,  1987,  263-65. 

Maidana,  Juan.  "Consequences  of  Direct  Literacy  in  Spanish." 
Pages  248-52  in  M.J.  Hardman  (ed.),  The  Aymara  Language  in 
Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on  Aspects  of 
Aymara  Language  and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida  Monographs, 
Social  Sciences  Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville:  University  of  Florida 
Press,  1981. 

Mangin,  William  (comp.).  Peasants  in  Cities:  Readings  in  the  Anthro- 
pology of  Urbanization.  New  York:  Houghton  Mifflin,  1970. 

Masuda,  Shozo,  Izumi  Shimada,  and  Craig  Morris  (eds.).  Andean 
Ecology  and  Civilization:  An  Interdisciplinary  Perspective  on  Andean 


313 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Ecological  Complementarity .  (Papers  from  Werner-Gren  Founda- 
tion for  Anthropological  Research  Symposium  Series,  No.  91.) 
Tokyo:  University  of  Tokyo  Press,  1985. 

Medina,  Cecilia.  The  Legal  Status  of  Indians  in  Bolivia.  Washington: 
Institute  for  the  Development  of  Indian  Law,  1977. 

Miracle,  Andrew  W.  (ed.).  Bilingualism:  Social  Issues  and  Policy  Im- 
plications. (Southern  Anthropological  Proceedings  Series,  No.  16.) 
Athens:  University  of  Georgia  Press,  1983. 

Morner,  Magnus.  The  Andean  Past;  Land,  Societies,  and  Conflicts.  New 
York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1985. 

Munoz  Reyes,  Jorge.  Geografia  escolar  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Librerfa 
Editorial  Juventud,  1981. 

Murra,  John  V.  "'El  Archipielago  Vertical'  Revisited."  Pages 
3-13  in  Shozo  Masuda,  Izumi  Shimada,  and  Craig  Morris  (eds.), 
Andean  Ecology  and  Civilization:  An  Interdisciplinary  Perspective  on 
Andean  Ecological  Complementarity.  (Papers  from  Werner-Gren 
Foundation  for  Anthropological  Research  Symposium  Series, 
No.  91.)  Tokyo:  University  of  Tokyo  Press,  1985. 

 .  "The  Limits  and  Limitations  of  the  'Vertical  Archipelago' 

in  the  Andes."  Pages  15-20  in  Shozo  Masuda,  Izumi  Shimada, 
and  Craig  Morris  (eds.),  Andean  Ecology  and  Civilization:  An  In- 
terdisciplinary Perspective  on  Andean  Ecological  Complementarity.  (Papers 
from  Werner-Gren  Foundation  for  Anthropological  Research 
Symposium  Series,  No.  91.)  Tokyo:  University  of  Tokyo  Press, 
1985. 

Nash,  June.  "Myth  and  Ideology  in  the  Andean  Highlands."  Pages 
1 16-41  in  June  Nash,  Juan  Corradi,  and  Hobart  Spalding,  Jr. 
(eds.),  Ideology  and  Social  Change  in  Latin  America.  New  York: 
Gordon  and  Breach,  1977. 

Nash,  June,  and  Helen  I.  Safa  (eds.).  Women  and  Change  in  Latin 
America.  South  Hadley,  Massachusetts:  Bergin  and  Garvey,  1985. 

Nash,  June,  Juan  Corradi,  and  Hobart  Spalding,  Jr.  (eds.).  Ide- 
ology and  Social  Change  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Gordon  and 
Breach,  1977. 

1961-1978  Documentos  de  la  Conferencia  Episcopal  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz: 
Empresa  Editora  "Promisa,"  1979. 

Osborne,  Harold  C.  Indians  of  the  Andes:  Aymaras  and  Quechuas. 
(Library  of  Latin  American  History  and  Culture  Series.)  New 
York:  Cooper  Square,  1973. 

Pacini,  Deborah,  and  Christine  Franquemont  (eds.).  Coca  and  Co- 
caine: Effects  on  People  and  Policy  in  Latin  America.  (Cultural  Sur- 
vival Report  Series,  No.  23.)  Cambridge,  Massachusetts: 
Cultural  Survival,  1986. 


314 


Bibliography 

Pan  American  Health  Organization.  Evaluation  of  the  Strategy  for 
Health  for  All  by  the  Year  2000:  Seventh  Report  on  the  World  Health 
Situation.  Washington:  1986. 

 Health  Conditions  in  the  Americas,  1981-1984,  2.  Washing- 
ton: 1986. 

Piatt,  Tristan.  "The  Role  of  the  Andean  Ayllu  in  the  Reproduc- 
tion of  the  Petty  Commodity  Regime  in  Northern  Potosi 
(Bolivia)."  Pages  27-69  in  David  Lehmann  (ed.),  Ecology  and 
Exchange  in  the  Andes.  (Cambridge  Studies  in  Social  Anthropol- 
ogy Series,  No.  6.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1982. 

Ranee,  Susanna.  Saludy  enfermedad  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Centro  de 
Documentacion  e  Informacion,  1984. 

Rasnake,  Roger  Neil.  "The  Kurahkuna  of  Yura:  Indigenous 
Authorities  of  Colonial  Charcas  and  Contemporary  Bolivia." 
(Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  York:  Department  of  Anthropology, 
Cornell  University,  1982. 

Robinson,  Harry.  Latin  America.  (3d  ed.)  (New  Certificate  Geog- 
raphy Series.)  London:  Macdonald  and  Evans,  1970. 

Rubin,  Vera  (ed.).  Cannabis  and  Culture.  The  Hague:  Mouton,  1975. 

Satz  Miracle,  Christine.  "Intelligence  Testing  and  the  Aymara." 
Pages  240-47  in  M.J.  Hardman  (ed.),  The  Aymara  Language  in 
Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on  Aspects  of 
Aymara  Language  and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida  Monographs, 
Social  Sciences  Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville:  University  of  Florida 
Press,  1981. 

Solomon,  Frank.  "Andean  Ethnology  in  the  1970s:  A  Retrospec- 
tive," Latin  American  Research  Review,  17,  No.  2,  April  1982, 
75-128. 

Stearman,  Allyn  MacLean.  "Language  as  a  Mechanism  for  So- 
cial Discrimination  and  Class  Distinction:  Case  Study — Lowland 
Bolivia."  Pages  228-36  in  MJ.  Hardman  (ed.),  The  Aymara  Lan- 
guage in  Its  Social  and  Cultural  Context:  A  Collection  of  Essays  on  Aspects 
of  Aymara  Language  and  Culture.  (University  of  Florida  Mono- 
graphs, Social  Sciences  Series,  No.  67.)  Gainesville:  University 
of  Florida  Press,  1981. 

 "The  Yuqui  Connection:  Another  Look  at  Siriono  Decul- 

turation,"  American  Anthropologist,  86,  No.  3,  September  1984, 
630-50. 

Stern,  Steve  J.  (ed.).  Resistance,  Rebellion,  and  Consciousness  in  the 

Andean  Peasant  World:  18th  to  20th  Centuries.  Madison:  University 

of  Wisconsin  Press,  1987. 
Stinson,  Sara.  "Socioeconomic  Status  and  Child  Growth  in  Rural 

Bolivia,"  Ecology  of  Food  and  Nutrition,  13,  No.  3,  July  1983, 

179-87. 


315 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Toranzo,  Carlos  F.  (ed.).  Bolivia  hacia  el  2000:  Desaftos y  opciones. 
Caracas:  Editorial  Nueva  Sociedad  and  Los  Amigos  del  Libro 
UNITAR/PROFAL,  1989. 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization. 
Oficina  Regional  de  Educacion  de  la  UNESCO  para  America 
Latina  y  el  Caribe.  Informaciones  estadisticas  de  la  educacion  y  andli- 
sis  cuantitativo.  (Statistics  Series,  No.  27.)  Santiago,  Chile:  July 
1983. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 

1988.  Washington:  1988. 
Walsh,  John.  ''Bolivia  Swaps  Debt  for  Conservation,"  Science,  237, 

August  7,  1987,  596-97. 
Weil,  Connie.  "Migration  among  Land  Holdings  by  Bolivian  Cam- 

pesinos,"  Geographical  Review,  73,  No.  2,  April  1983,  182-97. 
Weil,  Jim.  "Coca  and  Tropical  Colonization  in  Bolivia:  The  Adap- 

tiveness  of  a  Cash  Crop, ' '  Central  Issues  in  Anthropology,  2,  No.  1 , 

1980,  15-26. 

Widerkehr,  Doris  E.  "Autonomy  Overshadowed:  A  Bolivian 
Cooperative  Within  the  Nationalized  Mining  Industry,"  Human 
Organization,  39,  No.  2,  Summer  1980,  153-60. 

World  Bank.  Social  Indicators  of  Development,  1987.  Washington:  1987. 

Chapter  3 

Alexander,  Robert  J.  "Bolivia's  Democratic  Experience,"  Current 

History,  84,  No.  499,  March  1985,  73-76. 
Avery,  William  P.  "The  Politics  and  Cooperation  in  the  Andean 

Group,"  Journal  of  Developing  Areas,  17,  No.  2,  January  1983, 

155-84. 

Ayub,  Mahmood  Ali,  and  Hideo  Hashimoto.  The  Economics  of  Tin 
Mining  in  Bolivia.  Washington:  World  Bank,  1985. 

Balance  of  Payments  Statistics  Yearbook,  1988,  Pt.  1.  Washington:  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund,  1988. 

Banco  Central  de  Bolivia.  Division  de  Estadisticas  Economicas. 
Estadisticas  monetarias  y  financieras.  La  Paz:  1987. 

 Division  de  Tecnica.  Departamento  de  Cuentas  Na- 

cionales.  Cuentas  Nacionales,  1970-1979.  La  Paz:  1981. 

Banco  del  Estado.  16a  Memoria  anual,  1987.  La  Paz:  1988. 

Basaure  Forgues,  Pedro.  Banca:  El  credito  comercial.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1984. 

Blanco,  David,  et  al.  (eds.).  Escenarios  del  85:  Entre  la  estabilizacion 
y  las  elecciones.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Cinco,  1985. 

Bolivia.  Economic  Policy  Framework,  1988-1991.  La  Paz:  1988. 


316 


Bibliography 


 .  Estrategia  nacional  de  desarrollo  y  plan  cuatrienal,  1985-1988. 

La  Paz:  ISAP,  1984. 
 .  Ministerio  de  Finanzas.  Plan  economico  de  emergencia.  La  Paz: 

1982. 

 Ministerio  de  Planeamiento  y  Coordinacion.  Programa  de 

desarrollo  integral  de  las  Amazonia  Boliviana.  Washington:  Organi- 
zation of  American  States,  1987. 

 .  Ministerio  de  Planeamiento  y  Coordinacion.  Instituto  Na- 
cional de  Estadistica.  Bolivia  en  cifras,  1985.  La  Paz:  1986. 

 .  Plan  nacional  de  rehabilitacion  y  desarrollo,  1984-1987.  (rev. 

ed.)  La  Paz:  Editorial  Lux,  1984. 

Bonner,  Ray.  "Bailing  Out  Bolivia's  Junta,"  Nation,  231,  No.  18, 
November  29,  1980,  573-76. 

Burke,  Melvin.  "The  Stabilization  Programs  of  the  International 
Monetary  Fund:  The  Case  of  Bolivia,"  Marxist  Perspectives,  2, 
No.  2,  Summer  1979,  118-33. 

Camara  de  Industria  y  Comercio.  Guta  directorio  de  la  industria  Boliv- 
iana. Santa  Cruz,  Bolivia:  1983. 

 Sintesis  socioeconomica.  Santa  Cruz,  Bolivia:  1987. 

Canelas  Orellana,  Amado,  and  Juan  Carlos  Canelas  Zannier. 
Bolivia:  Coca  cocaina,  subdesarollo y  poder politico.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1983. 

Casanovas  Sainz,  Roberto.  "Los  trabajadores  por  cuenta  propia 
en  el  Mercado  de  trabajo:  El  caso  de  la  ciudad  de  La  Paz. ' '  Pages 
207-45  in  El  sector  informal  urbano  en  los  paises  Andinos.  Quito:  In- 
stituto Latinamericano  de  Investigaciones  Sociales,  1985. 

Castro,  Juan  Jose,  and  Walter  Gomez.  "La  crisis  economica  y  sus 
desaflos."  Pages  11-38  in  David  Blanco  et  al.  (eds.),  Escenarios 
del  85:  Entre  la  estabilizacion y  las  elecciones.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Cinco, 
1985. 

Centro  de  Promocion  Minera.  Central  Obrera  Boliviana.  Plan  de 
emergencia  de  la  COB.  (Documento  No.  10.)  La  Paz:  1984. 

Crabtree,  John,  Gavan  Duffy,  and  Jenny  Pearce.  The  Great  Tin 
Crash:  Bolivia  and  the  World  Tin  Market.  London:  Latin  America 
Bureau,  1987. 

Direction  of  Trade  Statistics  Yearbook,  1988.  Washington:  International 
Monetary  Fund,  1988. 

Dunkerley,  James.  "Bolivia  at  the  Crossroads,"  Third  World  Quar- 
terly [London],  8,  No.  1,  January  1986,  137-50. 

Eckstein,  Susan.  "Transformation  of 'Revolution  from  Below'  — 
Bolivia  and  International  Capital,"  Comparative  Studies  in  Inter- 
national Society  and  History  [Cambridge],  25,  No.  1,  January  1983, 
105-35. 


317 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Eckstein,  Susan,  and  Frances  Hagopian.  "The  Limits  of  Indus- 
trialization in  the  Less  Developed  World:  Bolivia,"  Economic  De- 
velopment and  Cultural  Change,  32,  No.  1,  October  1983,  63-95. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Bolivia,  1988-89.  Lon- 
don: Economist,  1988. 

Epstein,  Jose  D.  "La  economia  de  Bolivia  a  partir  de  1952,"  Los 
Ensayistas,  Nos.  20-21,  Summer  1986,  103-10. 

Evaluation  Technologies.  Bolivia:  A  Country  Profile.  (Office  of  For- 
eign Disaster  Assistance  Profiles  Series.)  Washington:  Agency 
for  International  Development,  1984. 

Gonzalez,  Rene  M.  Informativo  economico  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
Los  Amigos  del  Libro:  1979. 

Government  Finance  Statistics  Yearbook,  1987,  2.  Washington:  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund,  1988. 

Groves,  Gary  C.  "Bolivia:  Agricultural  Situation  Report."  (At- 
tache Report,  BL-8002  Series.)  Washington:  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Foreign  Agricultural  Service,  March  30,  1988. 

Healy,  Kevin.  "From  Field  to  Factory:  Vertical  Integration  in 
Bolivia,"  Grassroots  Development,  11,  No.  2,  1987,  2-11. 

Heath,  Dwight  B.  "Bolivia's  Law  of  Agrarian  Reform."  Pages 
29-51  in  Dwight  B.  Heath,  Charles  J.  Erasmus,  and  Hans  C. 
Buechler  (eds.),  Land  Reform  and  Social  Revolution  in  Bolivia.  (Prae- 
ger  Special  Studies  in  Economics  and  Development  Series.)  New 
York:  Praeger,  1969. 

Heath,  Dwight  B.,  Charles  J.  Erasmus,  and  Hans  C.  Buechler 
(eds.).  Land  Reform  and  Social  Revolution  in  Bolivia.  (Praeger  Spe- 
cial Studies  in  Economics  and  Development  Series.)  New  York: 
Praeger,  1969. 

Hiraoka,  Mario.  "Settlement  and  Development  of  the  Upper 
Amazon:  The  East  Bolivian  Example,"  Journal  of Developing  Areas, 
14,  No.  3,  April  1980,  327-47. 

Inter- American  Development  Bank.  Annual  Report,  1987.  Washing- 
ton: 1988. 

 .  El  BID  en  Bolivia.  Washington:  1980. 

 .  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America:  1984  Report. 

Washington:  1984. 

 .  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America:  1988  Report. 

Washington:  1988. 

International  Financial  Statistics  Yearbook,  1988.  Washington:  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund,  1988. 

Iriarte,  P.  Gregorio.  Esq uemas para  la  interpretacion  de  la  realidad.  (2d 
ed.)  La  Paz:  1985. 

Jackson,  George  (ed.).  Inflation  and  Development  in  Latin  America:  A 
Case  History  of  Inflation  and  Stabilization  in  Bolivia.  (Michigan 


318 


Bibliography 


International  Business  Studies  Series,  No.  8.)  Ann  Arbor: 
University  of  Michigan,  1968. 
Ladman,  Jerry  R.,  and  Ronald  L.  Tinnermeier.  "The  Political 
Economy  of  Agricultural  Credit:  The  Case  of  Bolivia,"  Ameri- 
can Journal  of  Agricultural  Economics,  63,  No.  1,  February  1981, 
66-72. 

Lora,  Guillermo.  A  History  of  the  Bolivian  Labour  Movement,  1848- 
1971.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1977. 

Malloy,  James  M.  "Bolivia's  Economic  Crisis,"  Current  History, 
86,  No.  516,  January  1987,  9-12,  37-38. 

Marsh,  Margaret  A.  Bankers  in  Bolivia:  A  Study  in  American  Foreign 
Investment.  New  York:  AMS  Press,  1970. 

Martino,  Orlando  D.  Mineral  Industries  of  Latin  America.  Washing- 
ton: GPO  for  Department  of  the  Interior,  Bureau  of  Mines, 
Division  of  International  Minerals,  1988. 

Merrick,  Thomas  W.  "Population  Pressures  in  Latin  America," 
Population  Bulletin,  41,  No.  3,  July  1986. 

Morales,  Juan  Antonio,  and  Jeffrey  Sachs.  "Bolivia's  Economic 
Crisis."  (Working  Paper  Series,  No.  2620.)  (Research  paper.) 
Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  National  Bureau  of  Economic 
Research,  June  1988. 

Musgrave,  Richard  A.  Fiscal  Reform  in  Bolivia.  Cambridge:  Law 
School  of  Harvard  University,  1981. 

Nash,  June.  We  Eat  the  Mines,  and  the  Mines  Eat  Us:  Dependency  and 
Exploitation  in  Bolivian  Tin  Mines.  New  York:  Columbia  Univer- 
sity Press,  1979. 

Ramos  Sanchez,  Pablo.  Tomas  de  la  economia  boliviana,  2.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Puerta  del  Sol,  1983. 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.  The  Bolivian  National  Crisis.  (Universities  Field 
Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  Latin  America,  No.  26.) 
Indianapolis:  1986. 

 .  Bolivia  }s  Turbulent  Experiment  with  Democracy.  (Universities 

Field  Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  Latin  America,  No.  27.) 
Indianapolis:  1986. 

Solem,  Richard  Ray,  et  al.  Bolivia:  Integrated  Rural  Development  in 
a  Colonization  Setting.  (AID  Project  Impact  Evaluation  Report 
Series,  No.  17.)  Washington:  Agency  for  International  Develop- 
ment, 1985. 

United  Nations.  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  Los  bancos  transnacionales,  el  estado,  y  el  endeudamiento 
externo  de  Bolivia.  Santiago,  Chile:  1983. 

 Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Carib- 
bean. Estudio  economico  de  America  Latinay  el  Caribe,  1986:  Bolivia. 
Santiago,  Chile:  1987. 


319 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


 Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Carib- 
bean. Estudio  economico  de  America  Latinay  el  Caribe,  1987:  Bolivia. 
Santiago,  Chile:  1988. 

 Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Carib- 
bean. The  Natural  Disasters  of  1982-1983  in  Bolivia,  Ecuador,  and 
Peru.  Santiago,  Chile:  1984. 

United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  Bolivia:  State 
of  the  Environment  and  Natural  Resources .  Washington:  GPO,  1980. 

 Agency  for  International  Development.  Congressional  Presen- 
tation, FY  1989:  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  (Annex  3.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Senate  Caucus  on 

International  Narcotics  Control.  On-Site  Staff  Examination  of  Nar- 
cotics Control  Efforts  in  Bolivia.  (Report  by  Tim  Carlsgaard  and 
Morgan  Hardiman,  Senate  Print  No.  100-46.)  Washington: 
GPO,  July  1987. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  Bolivia  Minerals  Report,  FY  1987. 

(CERP,  0429.)  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  ''Investment  Climate  State- 
ment: Bolivia."  (Research  paper.)  Washington:  September  30, 
1988. 

 Department  of  Commerce.  "Overseas  Business  Report: 

Bolivia."  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  International  Trade  Adminis- 
tration. Foreign  Economic  Trends  and  Their  Implications  for  the  United 
States:  Bolivia.  (International  Marketing  Information  Series.) 
Washington:  GPO,  July  1988. 

 .  Department  of  State.  FY  1989  Assistance  Requests  for  Latin 

America  and  the  Caribbean.  (Bulletin  Reprint  Series.)  Washington: 
GPO,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Post  Report:  Bolivia.  Washington: 

GPO,  1986. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics 

Matters.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy  Report.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics 

Matters.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy  Report:  Mid-Year  Up- 
date. Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 General  Accounting  Office .  Drug  Control:  U.  S.  -Supported 

Efforts  in  Colombia  and  Bolivia.  Washington:  November  1988. 

 National  Narcotics  Intelligence  Consumers  Committee. 

The  NNICC  Report,  1986:  The  Supply  of  Illicit  Drugs  to  the  United 
States  from  Foreign  and  Domestic  Sources  in  1985  and  1986.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1987. 


320 


Bibliography 


 .  National  Narcotics  Intelligence  Consumers  Committee. 

The  NNICC  Report,  1987:  The  Supply  of  Illicit  Drugs  to  the  United 
States.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

Whitaker,  Morris  D.,  and  E.  Boyd  Wennergreen.  "Bolivia's 
Agriculture  since  1960:  An  Assessment  and  Prognosis."  Pages 
233-54  in  Jerry  R.  Ladman  (ed.),  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of 
the  Revolution  and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin 
American  Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

Wilkie,  James  W.  The  Bolivian  Revolution  and  United  States  Aid  since 
1952.  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1969. 

Winrock  International.  Agricultural  Development  Indicators.  Morrilton, 
Arkansas:  1987. 

World  Bank.  Annual  Report,  1988.  Washington:  1988. 

 Annual  Report  on  Exchange  Arrangements  and  Exchange  Restric- 
tions, 1988.  Washington:  1988. 

 Bolivia:  Agricultural  Pricing  and  Investment  Policies.  Washing- 
ton: 1984. 

 World  Debt  Tables,  1987-1988.  External  Debt  of  Developing 

Countries.  (1  and  2.)  Washington:  1988. 

 .  World  Development  Report,  1988.  Washington:  1988. 

Zondag,  Cornelius  H.  The  Bolivian  Economy,  1952-1965:  The  Revo- 
lution and  Its  Aftermath.  (Praeger  Special  Studies  in  Economics 
and  Development  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1966. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country 
Report:  Peru,  Bolivia  [London],  1985-89;  Latin  American  Monitor:  An- 
dean Group  [London],  1985-89;  and  Latin  America  Regional  Reports: 
Andean  Group  [London],  1985-89.) 


Chapter  4 

Accion  Democratica  y  Nacionalista.  El  pacto  por  la  democracia.  La 
Paz:  1985. 

Alcaraz,  Irving.  El prisionero  del palacio.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Amerin- 
dia,  1983. 

Alcazar,  Moises.  Drama  y  comedia  en  el  congreso.  La  Paz:  Librerfa 
Editorial  Juventud,  1980. 

Alcoreza,  Carmen,  and  Xavier  Albo.  1978,  El  nuevo  campesinado 
ante  elfraude.  La  Paz:  Centro  de  Investigation  y  Promotion  del 
Campesinado,  1979. 

Alexander,  Robert  J.  The  Bolivian  National  Revolution.  New  Bruns- 
wick: Rutgers  University  Press,  1958. 


321 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Anaya,  Mario  Rolm.  Partidos  Politicos  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Libreria 

Editorial  Juventud,  1987. 
Andrade,  Victor.  My  Missions  for  Revolutionary  Bolivia,  1944-1962. 

Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1977. 
Asamblea  Permanente  de  los  Derechos  Humanos.  Elfraude  electoral: 

Un  atentado  contra  la  voluntad  popular.  La  Paz:  1978. 
Baldivia,  Jose,  and  Leticia  Sainz.  Guia  para  elecciones  municipales. 

La  Paz:  Ildis,  1987. 
Baptista  Gumucio,  Fernando.  Estrategia  nacional para  la  deuda  externa. 

La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1984. 
Bedregal  Gutierrez,  Guillermo.  Los  militares  en  Bolivia:  Ensayo  de  inter- 
pretation sociologica.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1971. 
Blasier,  Cole.  The  Hovering  Giant:  U.S.  Responses  to  Revolutionary 

Change  in  Latin  America.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press, 

1976. 

Bolivia.  Constitution  politico,  del  estado.  La  Paz:  1967. 

 Ley  electoral  de  la  republica.  La  Paz:  1986. 

Brill,  William  H.  Military  Intervention  in  Bolivia:  The  Overthrow  of  Paz 
Estenssoro  and  the  MNR.  Washington:  Institute  for  the  Compara- 
tive Study  of  Political  Systems,  1967. 

Calderon,  Fernando,  and  Jorge  Dandier  (eds.).  Bolivia:  La  fuerza 
historica  del  campesinado.  Geneva:  Instituto  de  Investigaciones  de 
las  Naciones  Unidas  para  el  Desarrollo  Social,  1986. 

Calderon,  Fernando,  and  Roberto  Laserna.  El poder  de  las  regiones. 
Cochabamba:  Centro  de  Estudios  de  la  Realidad  Economica  y 
Social,  1983. 

Calla,  Ricardo.  La  derrota  de  Lechin:  Las  luchas politicas  en  el XXI  con- 

greso  minero,  Mayo  1986.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Tigre  de  Papel,  1986. 
Centro  de  Investigacion  y  Consultoria  (ed.).  Escenarios  del  85:  Entre 

la  establizacion  y  las  elecciones.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Cinco,  1985. 
Confederacion  de  Empresarios  Privados  de  Bolivia.  Pensamiento  de 

la  empresa  privada  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Alenkar,  1981. 
 .  Pensamiento  y  action  de  la  empresa  privada.  La  Paz:  Editora 

Universo,  1985. 

Crespo  Gutierrez,  Alberto.  "Prioridades  de  la  politica  exterior  boliv- 
iana,"  Relaciones  Internationales  [Santiago,  Chile],  1,  No.  1,  1986, 
7-14. 

Danopoulos,  Constantine  (ed.).  Military  Disengagement  from  Politics. 

London:  Routledge,  1988. 
Dunkerley,  James.  Bolivia:  Coup  d'Etat.  London:  Latin  American 

Bureau,  1980. 

 .  Rebellion  in  the  Veins:  Political  Struggle  in  Bolivia,  1952-1982. 

London:  Verso  Editions,  1984. 
Dunkerley,  James,  and  Rolando  Morales.  "The  Bolivian  Crisis," 

New  Left  Review  [London],  155,  January-February  1986,  86-106. 


322 


Bibliography 


Escobari  Cusicanqui,  Jorge.  "Enunciados  para  una  polftica  inter- 
national boliviana,"  Relaciones  Internacionales  [Santiago,  Chile], 
1,  No.  1,  1986. 

"Final  Official  Vote  Count,"  Presencia  [La  Paz],  May  28,  1989,  1. 

Gamarra,  Eduardo  A.  ''Bolivia:  Disengagement  and  Democrati- 
zation." Pages  47-78  in  Constantine  Danopoulos  (ed.),  Mili- 
tary Disengagement  from  Politics.  London:  Routledge,  1988. 

 .  "Bolivia   1987-1988."   Pages  B21-B39  in  Abraham 

Lowenthal  (ed.),  Latin  America  and  Caribbean  Contemporary  Record, 
7.  New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1989. 

 .  "Democratization  and  Foreign  Policy:  Bolivia  and  Peru." 

(Paper  presented  at  annual  meeting  of  International  Studies  As- 
sociation, St.  Louis,  April  27-29,  1988.)  St.  Louis:  1988. 

 .  "Political  Stability,  Democratization,  and  the  Bolivian  Na- 
tional Congress."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Pittsburgh:  University 
of  Pittsburgh,  1987. 

 .  "The  Privatization  Debate  in  Bolivia."  In  Dennis  Gayle 

and  Jonathan  Goodrich  (eds.),  Privatization  and  Deregulation  in 
Global  Perspective.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Quorum  Books,  forth- 
coming 1990. 

 .  "The  United  States,  Democracy,  and  the  War  on  Drugs 

in  Bolivia."  (Paper  presented  at  annual  meeting  of  International 

Studies  Association,  London,  March  28,  1989.)  London:  1989. 
Gayle,  Dennis,  and  Jonathan  Goodrich  (eds.).  Privatization  and 

Deregulation  in  Global  Perspective.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Quorum 

Books,  forthcoming  1990. 
Gilies,  Malcolm,  and  Meyer  W.  Bicovetsky.  Taxation  and  Mining: 

Nonfuel  Minerals  in  Bolivia  and  Other  Countries.  Cambridge,  Mas- 
sachusetts: Ballinger,  1978. 
Iriarte  Ontiveros,  Alejandro.  La  democracia y  el  congreso  del  80.  La 

Paz:  Editorial  Amerindia,  1983. 
Kelley,  Jonathan,  and  Herbert  S.  Klein.  Revolution  and  the  Rebirth 

of  Inequality.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 
Klein,  Herbert  S.  Bolivia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society .  New 

York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 
 Origenes  de  la  revolucion  nacional.  La  Paz:  Editorial  los  Ami- 

gos  del  Libros,  1968. 
Ladman,  Jerry  R.  (ed.).  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution 

and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American 

Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 
Lazarte,  Jorge.  Movimiento  obrero y  procesos  politicos  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz: 

ILDIS,  1988. 

Lernoux,  Penny.  "The  U.S.  in  Bolivia:  Playing  Golf  While  Drugs 
Flow,"  Nation,  248,  No.  6,  February  13,  1989,  188-92. 


323 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Lowenthal,  Abraham  (ed.).  Latin  America  and  Caribbean  Contemporary 
Record,  6.  New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1988. 

 Latin  America  and  Caribbean  Contemporary  Record,  7.  New 

York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1989. 

Malloy,  James  M.  Bolivia:  The  Sad  and  Corrupt  End  of  the  Revolution. 
(Universities  Field  Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  South 
America,  No.  3.)  Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  UFSI,  1982. 

 Bolivia:  The  Uncompleted  Revolution.  Pittsburgh:  University 

of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1970. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra.  "Bolivia  1985- 
1987."  Pages  B21-B39  in  Abraham  Lowenthal  (ed.),  Latin  Amer- 
ica and  Caribbean  Contemporary  Record,  6.  New  York:  Holmes  and 
Meier,  1988. 

 .  Revolution  and  Reaction:  Bolivia,  1964-1985.  New  Brunswick, 

New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1988. 

 "The  Transition  to  Democracy  in  Bolivia. ' '  Pages  93-1 19 

in  James  M.  Malloy  and  Mitchell  A.  Seligson  (eds.),  Authoritar- 
ians and  Democrats :  Regime  Transition  in  Latin  America.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1987. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Mitchell  A.  Seligson  (eds.).  Authoritarians 
and  Democrats:  Regime  Transition  in  Latin  America.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1987. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Richard  S.  Thorn.  Beyond  the  Revolution: 
Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press, 
1971. 

Mitchell,  Christopher.  The  Legacy  of  Populism  in  Bolivia:  From  the 
MNR  to  Military  Rule.  (Praeger  Special  Studies  in  International 
Politics  and  Government  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Morales,  Juan  Antonio,  and  Jeffrey  Sachs.  "Bolivia's  Economic 
Crisis. "  (Working  Paper  Series,  No.  2620.)  (Research  paper.) 
Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Re- 
search, June  1988. 

Nogales,  Javier.  Bolivia:  La  nueva  politica  economicay  las  elecciones  de 
1989.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1988. 

Padilla  Arancibia,  David.  Decisionesy  recuerdos  de  un  general.  La  Paz: 
Urquizo,  1982. 

Prado  Salmon,  Gary.  Podery  fuerzas  armadas:  1949-1982.  La  Paz: 

Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1984. 
Quiroga  Santa  Cruz,  Marcelo.  Bolivia  recupera  la  palabra,  juicio  a 

la  dictadura.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1980. 
Ramos  Sanchez,  Pablo.  Radiografia  de  un  golpe  de  estado.  La  Paz: 

Editorial  Puerta  del  Sol,  1983. 
 Siete  anos  de  economia  Boliviana.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Puerta 

del  Sol,  1982. 


324 


Bibliography 


Rivadeneira  Prada,  Raul.  Laberinto politico  de  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Centro 
de  Investigation  y  Consultoria,  1984. 

Rivera  Cusicanqui,  Silvia.  Oprimidos  pero  no  vencidos.  Geneva:  In- 
stitute) de  Investigaciones  de  las  Naciones  Unidas  para  el  Desar- 
rollo  Social,  1986. 

Roca,  Jose  Luis.  Fisionomia  del  regionalismo  boliviano.  La  Paz:  Edi- 
torial Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1980. 

Rolon  Anaya,  Mario.  Partidos  politicos  en  Bolivia.  La  Paz:  Librena 
Editorial  Juventud,  1987. 

Salinas  Perez,  Rodolfo.  La  reconquista  de  la  democracia.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Amerindia,  1983. 

Sandoval,  Godofredo.  Las  mil  caras  del  movimiento  social  boliviano:  De 
lasjornadas  de  marzo  a  lasjornadas  de  septiembre  1985.  La  Paz:  Libreria 
e  Impresa  Offset  Panamericana,  1986. 

Selser,  Gregorio.  Bolivia:  Elcuartelazo  de  los  cocadolares.  Mexico  City: 
Mex-Sur  Editorial,  1982. 

Stearman,  Allyn  MacLean.  Camba  and  Kolla:  Migration  and  Develop- 
ment in  Santa  Cruz,  Bolivia.  Orlando:  University  of  Central  Florida 
Press,  1985. 

Vargas  Martinez,  German.  Responsabilidad:  fjuicio  o  sainete?  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Moxos,  1982. 

Zavaleta  Mercado,  Rene  (ed.).  Bolivia,  hoy.  Mexico  City:  Siglo 
Veintiuno  Editores,  1983. 

 Las  masas  en  noviembre.  La  Paz:  Liberia  Editorial  Juven- 
tud, 1983. 


Chapter  5 

Aguirre  B.,  Fernando.  "The  Legal  System  of  Bolivia."  Pages  11-44 
in  Kenneth  Robert  Redden  (ed.),  Modern  Legal  Systems  Cyclope- 
dia, 10:  South  America.  Buffalo:  Hein,  1985. 

Alexander,  Robert  J.  Bolivia:  Past,  Present,  and  Future  of  Its  Politics. 
(Praeger  Special  Studies  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Andrade,  John  (ed.).  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces.  New  York: 
Stockton  Press,  1986. 

Ayala  Z.,  Alfredo.  Historia  de  Bolivia  en  cuadros  sinopticos.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Don  Bosco,  1980. 

Barton,  Robert.  A  Short  History  of  the  Republic  of  Bolivia.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1966. 

Bascope  Aspiazu,  Rene.  La  veta  blanca:  Cocay  cocaina  en  Bolivia.  La 
Paz:  Ediciones  Aquf,  1982. 

Bedregal  Gutierrez,  Guillermo.  Los  militares  en  Bolivia:  Ensayo  de 
interpretation  sociologica.  La  Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro, 
1971. 


325 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Bedregal  Gutierrez,  Guillermo,  and  Rudy  Viscarra  Pando.  La  lucha 
boliviana  contra  la  agresion  del  narcotrdfico.  Cochabamba:  Editorial 
Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1989. 

Blaustein,  Albert  P.,  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.).  Constitutions  of 
the  Countries  of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1986. 

Bolivia.  Codigo  penal:  Codigo  de  procedimiento  penal.  La  Paz:  Gaceta 
Oficial  de  Bolivia,  1978. 

Canelas  Orellana,  Amado,  and  Juan  Carlos  Canelas  Zannier. 
Bolivia:  Coca,  cocaina,  subdesarrollo y  poder politico.  La  Paz:  Editorial 
Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1983. 

Carter,  William  E.  Bolivia:  A  Profile.  New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 

Corbett,  Charles  D.  The  Latin  American  Military  as  a  Sociopolitical 
Force:  Case  Studies  of  Argentina  and  Bolivia.  Miami:  Center  for  Ad- 
vanced International  Studies,  1972. 

Dunkerley,  James.  "The  Politics  of  the  Bolivian  Army:  Institu- 
tional Development  1879-1935."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Oxford: 
Oxford  University,  1979. 

.  .  Rebellion  in  the  Veins:  Political  Struggle  in  Bolivia,  1952-1982. 

London:  Verso  Editions,  1984. 

English,  Adrian  J.  Armed  Forces  of  Latin  America:  Their  Histories,  De- 
velopment, Present  Strength,  and  Military  Potential.  London:  Jane's, 
1984. 

Gott,  Richard.  Guerrilla  Movements  in  Latin  America.  London:  Thomas 
Nelson  and  Sons,  1970. 

Harb,  Benjamin  Miguel.  Der echo  penal,  2.  La  Paz:  Libreria  Editorial 
Juventud,  1988. 

Healy,  Kevin.  "Bolivia  and  Cocaine:  A  Developing  Country's 
Dilemmas,"  British  Journal  of  Addiction  [London],  83,  1988,  19-23. 

.  "The  Boom  Within  the  Crisis:  Some  Recent  Effects  of 
Foreign  Cocaine  Markets  on  Bolivia's  Rural  Society  and  Econ- 
omy." Pages  101-45  in  Deborah  Pacini  and  Christine  Franque- 
mont  (eds.),  Coca  and  Cocaine:  Effects  on  People  and  Policy  in  Latin 
America.  (Cultural  Survival  Report  Series,  No.  23.)  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts:  Cultural  Survival,  1986. 

 _.  "Coca,  the  State,  and  the  Peasantry  in  Bolivia,  1982- 

1988,"  Journal  of Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  30,  Nos.  2-3, 
Summer-Fall  1988,  105-26. 

 .  "The  Political  Ascendancy  of  the  Bolivian  Peasant  Coca 

Grower."  (Paper  presented  at  meeting  of  Latin  American  Studies 
Association,  Miami,  December  1989.)  Miami:  1989. 

Instituto  de  Estudios  Politicos  para  America  Latina  y  Africa.  Nar- 
cotrdfico y  politica:  Militarismo y  mafia  en  Bolivia.  Madrid:  Graficas 
Marcaritas,  1982. 


326 


Bibliography 


Inter- American  Commission  on  Human  Rights.  Report  on  the  Situ- 
ation of  Human  Rights  in  the  Republic  of  Bolivia.  Washington:  Or- 
ganization of  American  States,  General  Secretariat,  1981. 

Klein,  Herbert  S.  Bolivia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi- Ethnic  Society.  New 
York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 

Kohl,  James  V.  "National  Revolution  to  Revolutionary  Restora- 
tion: Arms  and  Factional  Politics  in  Bolivia,"  Inter-American  Eco- 
nomic Affairs,  39,  No.  1,  Summer  1985,  3-30. 

Ladman,  Jerry  R.  (ed.).  Modern  Day  Bolivia:  Legacy  of  the  Revolution 
and  Prospects  for  the  Future.  Tempe:  Center  for  Latin  American 
Studies,  Arizona  State  University,  1982. 

Landaburu,  Federico  C.  "Bolivia:  Participacion  de  las  fuerzas 
armadas  en  el  desarrollo  industrial  nacional,"  Tecnologia  Militar 
[Bonn],  8,  No.  12,  1986,  55. 

Lora,  Guillermo.  Causas  de  la  inestabilidad  politica  y  de  la  crisis  de  las 
FF.AA.  La  Paz:  Ediciones  Masas,  1983. 

Malloy,  James  M.  Bolivia:  The  Uncompleted  Revolution.  Pittsburgh: 
University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1970. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Eduardo  A.  Gamarra.  Revolution  and  Reac- 
tion: Bolivia,  1964-1985.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Trans- 
action Books,  1988. 

Malloy,  James  M.,  and  Richard  S.  Thorn  (eds.).  Beyond  the  Revo- 
lution: Bolivia  since  1952.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1971. 

Mesa  Gisbert,  Carlos  D.  Presidentes  de  Bolivia:  Entre  urnas y  fusiles. 
La  Paz:  Editorial  Gisbert,  1983. 

The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1989. 

Mitchell,  Christopher.  The  Legacy  of  Populism  in  Bolivia:  From  the 
MNR  to  Military  Rule.  (Praeger  Special  Studies  in  International 
Politics  and  Government  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Osborne,  Harold  C.  Bolivia:  A  Land  Divided.  Westport,  Connec- 
ticut: Greenwood  Press,  1964.  Reprint.  Westport,  Connecticut: 
Greenwood  Press,  1985. 

Pacini,  Deborah,  and  Christine  Franquemont  (eds.).  Coca  and 
Cocaine:  Effects  on  People  and  Policy  in  Latin  America.  (Cultural  Sur- 
vival Report  Series,  No.  23.)  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Cul- 
tural Survival,  1986. 

Parkerson,  Phillip  T.  "Neither  'Green  Gold'  nor  'The  Devil's 
Leaf:  Coca  Farming  in  Bolivia."  Pages  267-97  in  Benjamin 
S.  Orlove,  Michael  W.  Foley,  and  Thomas  F.  Love  (eds.),  State, 
Capital,  and  Rural  Society:  Anthropological  Perspectives  on  Political  Econ- 
omy in  Mexico  and  the  Andes.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1989. 


327 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

Prado  Salmon,  Gary.  Poder y  fuerzas  armadas,  1949-1982.  La  Paz: 
Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1984. 

Redden,  Kenneth  Robert  (ed.).  Modern  Legal  Systems  Cyclopedia,  10: 
South  America.  Buffalo:  Hein,  1985. 

Scheina,  Robert  L.  Latin  America:  A  Naval  History,  1810-1987.  Annap- 
olis: Naval  Institute  Press,  1987. 

 "Latin  American  Navies,"  U.S.  Naval  Institute  Proceedings, 

112,  No.  3,  March  1986,  32-36. 

United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  A  Review 
of  AID 's  Narcotics  Control  Development  Assistance  Program.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1986. 

 Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1989. 

Washington:  1989. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Review  of  Latin  American  Narcotics 
Control  Issues.  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Senate  Caucus  on 

International  Narcotics  Control.  On-Site  Staff Examination  of  Nar- 
cotics Control  Efforts  in  Bolivia.  (Report  by  Tim  Carlsgaard  and 
Morgan  Hardiman,  Senate  Print  No.  100-46.)  Washington: 
GPO,  July  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1988.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1989. 

 General  Accounting  Office.  Drug  Control:  U.S. -Supported 

Efforts  in  Colombia  and  Bolivia.  Washington:  November  1988. 

Vargas  Valenzuela,  Jose.  Tradicion  naval  del  pueblo  de  Bolivia.  La 
Paz:  Editorial  Los  Amigos  del  Libro,  1974. 

Wagner,  Maria  Luise.  "Reformism  in  the  Bolivian  Military:  Juan 
Jose  Torres,  A  Case  Study."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Washington: 
Department  of  History,  Georgetown  University,  1986. 

Warren,  Guillermo  L.  "El  transporte  aereo  y  el  apoyo  logistico 
en  Bolivia,"  Tecnologia  Militar  [Bonn],  9,  No.  10,  1987,  58-60. 

"World  Defence  Almanac,"  Military  Technology  [Bonn],  13,  No.  1, 
January  1989,  42-43. 


328 


Glossary 


ayllu — A  self-governing  and  land-owning  peasant  community  in 
Bolivia's  highlands.  May  refer  to  either  a  village,  a  kinship 
group,  or  a  clan-like  organization,  usually  based  on  collective 
agriculture.  Although  a  pre-Columbian  term,  ayllu  has  been 
used  as  a  synonym  for  contemporary  highland  peasant  com- 
munities (comunidades) . 

boliviano — Bolivia's  official  unit  of  currency.  Replaced  the  peso 
on  January  1,  1987.  In  1988  the  exchange  rate  was  B2.3  = 
US$1.  Readoption  of  the  boliviano  (Bolivia's  currency  prior 
to  January  1963)  in  January  1987  redressed  the  damage  done 
to  the  currency  by  hyperinflation. 

Cambas — Natives  of  the  lowlands  who  often  look  with  disdain  on 
highlanders  (Kollas — q.v.). 

cholo — A  term  that  has  a  variety  of  definitions  and  social  implica- 
tions. During  colonial  times  was  equivalent  to  mestizo  but  has 
evolved  to  include  persons  of  mixed  or  pure  Indian  ancestry 
who  are  trying  to  move  up  the  social  and  economic  ladder. 
Cholos  speak  Spanish  in  addition  to  an  Indian  tongue. 

compadrazgo — Literally,  copaternity.  A  system  of  ritual  coparent- 
hood  that  links  parents,  children,  and  godparents  in  a  close 
social  or  economic  relationship. 

corregidor — The  official,  usually  a  white  or  cholo,  in  preindependence 
Bolivia  charged  with  administering  local  Indian  affairs. 

encomienda(s) — A  system  whereby  rights  over  Indian  labor  and  trib- 
ute were  granted  to  individual  colonists  (encomenderos)  in  return 
for  assuming  the  responsibility  of  supervision  and  religious  edu- 
cation of  the  Indians. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — Calendar  year. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits, 
compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of 
capital).  The  income  arising  from  investments  and  possessions 
owned  abroad  is  not  included,  hence  the  use  of  the  word  domestic 
to  distinguish  GDP  from  GNP  (q.v.). 

gross  national  product  (GDP) — Total  market  value  of  all  final  goods 
and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year.  Obtained 
by  adding  GDP  (q.  v. )  and  the  income  received  from  abroad 
by  residents  less  payments  remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents. 


329 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 

import-substitution  industrialization — An  economic  development 
strategy  that  emphasizes  the  growth  of  domestic  industries,  often 
by  import  protection  using  tariff  and  nontariff  measures.  Propo- 
nents favor  the  export  of  industrial  goods  over  primary 
products. 

informal  sector — Unofficial  sector  of  underground  economic  ac- 
tivity. In  Bolivia,  consisted  principally  of  coca  cultivation, 
cocaine  trafficking,  and  contraband,  employing  two- thirds  of 
the  work  force. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.  v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial 
internal  economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

Kollas — Term  for  native  residents  of  the  Altiplano,  including  the 
city  of  La  Paz,  used  somewhat  disdainfully  by  native  lowlanders, 
called  Cambas  (q.v.). 

machismo — Cult  of  male  dominance,  derived  from  the  word  macho, 
meaning  male. 

minifundios — Very  small  landholdings,  legally  held,  allowing  only 
a  bare  existence. 

mita — A  compulsory  labor  system  implemented  by  the  Spaniards 
to  work  the  mines.  Required  that  all  able-bodied  Indian  men 
present  themselves  periodically  for  short  periods  of  paid  work 
in  the  mines.  Was  abused  by  inhumane  treatment  of  the  con- 
scripts, arbitrary  extensions  of  the  service  period,  and  deple- 
tion of  individual  communities  of  their  adult  males. 

Paris  Club — A  Paris-based  organization  that  represents  commer- 
cial banks  in  the  rescheduling  of  national  debts. 

pulperia — Originally,  a  company  store;  later,  a  state-subsidized  mer- 
chandise store  selling  goods  at  stable  prices  to  miners  and  other 
labor  groups. 

rosea — A  derogatory  term  for  the  national  oligarchy  whose  basis 
of  power  was  strongly  shaken  by  the  1952  Revolution.  Desig- 
nated in  particular  the  supportive  group  of  lawyers  and  politi- 
cians who  acted  as  administrators  for  the  ruling  elite. 

state  capitalism — A  development  model  or  strategy  centered  on  the 
state,  which  directly  controls  and  manages,  through  govern- 
ment agencies  and  public  mixed  corporations,  most  of  the  basic 
industry  and  infrastructure  and  uses  incentives  or  disincentives 


330 


Glossary 


to  guide  growth  in  the  private  sector  in  accordance  with  de- 
velopment priorities. 

terms  of  trade — Number  of  units  that  must  be  given  up  for  one 
unit  of  goods  by  each  party,  e.g.,  nation,  to  a  transaction.  The 
terms  of  trade  are  said  to  move  in  favor  of  the  party  that  gives 
up  fewer  units  of  goods  than  it  did  previously  for  one  unit  of 
goods  received,  and  against  the  party  that  gives  up  more  units 
of  goods  for  one  unit  of  goods  received.  In  international  eco- 
nomics, the  concept  of  "terms  of  trade"  plays  an  important 
role  in  evaluating  exchange  relationships  between  nations. 

value-added  tax  (VAT) — An  incremental  tax  applied  to  the  value 
added  at  each  stage  of  the  processing  of  a  raw  material  or  the 
production  and  distribution  of  a  commodity.  It  is  calculated 
as  the  difference  between  the  product  value  at  a  given  state  and 
the  cost  of  all  materials  and  services  purchased  as  inputs.  The 
value-added  tax  is  a  form  of  indirect  taxation,  and  its  impact 
on  the  ultimate  consumer  is  the  same  as  that  of  a  sales  tax. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed 
countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD 
hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  three  institutions  are 
owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their 
capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states 
must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 


331 


Index 


AASANA.  ^Administration  of  Airports 
and  Aerial  Navigation  Auxiliary  Ser- 
vices 

Acha  Valiente,  Jose  Maria  de,  20,  164 
Administration  of  Airports  and  Aerial 
Navigation  Auxiliary  Services  (Admin- 
istration de  Aeropuertos  y  Servicios  Aux- 
iliares  de  Navegacion  Aerea:  AASANA), 
147,  237 

ADN.  See  Nationalist  Democratic  Action 
Aeroflot,  213 

agrarian  reform,  4,  36,  72,  82,  103, 
115-16,  200 

Agrarian  Reform  Commission,  36 

Agrarian  Reform  Law  (1953),  (1963), 
(1968),  36,  82,  103,  115,  200 

agreements:  antinarcotics  (1983),  222, 
261;  with  Brazil,  126,  208,  216;  Car- 
tagena Agreement,  215;  with  Hungary, 
209;  of  International  Tin  Council, 
136-37;  Lend-Lease  Agreement,  225; 
related  to  free  river  passage,  148;  relat- 
ed to  natural  gas  sales,  131;  Rio  de  la 
Plata  Basin  commercial  and  develop- 
ment, 215;  with  United  States,  125 

Agricultural  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Agri- 
cola  de  Bolivia:  BAB),  124,  144 

agricultural  sector  (see  also  coca  industry 
and  trade;  exports;  farming):  campesi- 
nos  in,  20,  25,  33;  coca  cultivation  of, 
84;  crops  of,  119-26;  employment  in, 
101-2,  113;  encomiendas  of ',  10,  60,  102; 
farming  technology  in,  126;  growth  of 
commercial  sector  in,  24;  lack  of  invest- 
ment in,  35;  lack  of  technology  and  in- 
frastructure for,  113;  land  use  in,  116, 
118-19;  large  estates  in,  10;  peasant 
land-use  strategy  in,  71-72;  perfor- 
mance of,  xxxiii,  17,  24,  37,  113-14, 
116;  processing  of  products  of,  141;  re- 
form in,  4,  36,  168;  rural  social  struc- 
ture in,  70-74;  size  of  labor  force  in, 
110;  slash-and-burn  activity,  xxxiv, 
128;  withdrawal  of  government  inter- 
vention from,  116 

AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development 

air  bases,  235 


aircraft:  civil,  236;  military,  235-36 
airlines:  Bolivian,  147,  171;  landing  rights 

for  foreign,  213 
airports,  87,  147 

Airport  Security  (Seguridad  de  Aero- 
puertos), 237 

Air  Rescue  Service  (Servicio  Aereo  de 
Rescate:  SAR),  237 

airstrips,  unofficial,  147,  257 

air  taxis,  147 

Air  Transport  Management  (Gerencia  de 
Transportes  Aereos),  236-38 

ALADI.  See  Latin  American  Integration 
Association 

Albania,  214 

Albo,  Xavier,  65 

Alejo  Calatayu  terrorist  command,  255 
Alexander,  Robert  J.,  227 
Almagro,  Diego  de,  7-8 
Altiplano,  xxiii,  5,  8,  52-53,  58,  115,  126; 

migrants  from,  87 
Alto  Beni  region,  56 
Amazonian  Pact,  215,  217 
Amazon  River,  56 

Anapo.  See  National  Association  of  Soy- 
bean Producers 

Ancom.  See  Andean  Common  Market 

Andean  Common  Market  (Ancom), 
132-33,  142,  152,  215 

Andean  Development  Corporation,  132- 
33,  156 

Andean  Pact.  See  Andean  Common  Market 

Andean  Postal  Union,  149 

Andes  Mountains,  xxiii;  Cordillera  Cen- 
tral of,  54-55;  Cordillera  Occidental/ 
Cordillera  Oriental  of,  52-55,  58-59; 
Cordillera  Real  of,  xxiii,  52,  54,  55,  58, 
59 

antimony-mining  industry,  137-38 
antinarcotics  agreement  (1983),  222,  261 
Antinarcotics  Law  (1988),  212,  258,  266, 
270 

antinarcotics  programs  (see  also  Armed 
Forces;  Bolivian  Air  Force;  coca  indus- 
try and  trade;  cocaine  industry;  legis- 
lation, narcotics-related;  Rural  Area 
Police  Patrol  Unit),  222,  246 

Antofagasta-Calama  Railroad,  25 


333 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Antofagasta  (Chile),  148 

Apasa,  Julian,  14,  202 

Aramayo,  Carlos,  xxix,  27 

Aramayo  mines,  4,  103 

Aranibar,  Antonio,  192 

Arawak  (Mojo)  people,  63 

Arce  Gomez,  Luis,  xxxv,  256,  257 

Arce  Ruiz,  Aniceto,  xxviii,  xxix,  25,  223 

Argentina:  border  with,  52;  dispute  over 
natural  gas  with,  xxxiii,  131,  216;  lend- 
ing from,  154;  relations  with,  208,  216-; 
trade  with,  xxxiii,  152;  use  of  ports  in, 
148;  war  with  (1839),  19 

Argentine  Railroad  Company  (Ferrocar- 
riles  Argentinos),  147 

Arguedas,  Alcides,  19,  30 

Arguedas,  Antonio,  41 

Arias  Sanchez,  Oscar,  215 

Arica  (Chile),  148,  216 

armed  forces:  disintegration  within,  196; 
growth  of,  38;  rebuilding  of,  4,  196;  role 
in  politics  of,  196-98,  221,  222-24,  230 

Armed  Forces  (Fuerzas  Armadas:  FF.  AA.) 
{see  also  army),  225,  227;  antinarcotics 
activity  of,  262;  missions  of,  230-33, 
237-38;  National  Progress  Bank  of, 
246;  Operational  Tasks  Command  of, 
262;  organization  and  size  of,  231, 
233-36;  reform  in,  230;  School  of 
Arms,  241 

Armed  Forces  National  Development  Cor- 
poration (Corporation  de  las  Fuerzas 
Armadas  para  el  Desarrollo  Nacional: 
Cofadena),  138,  142,  246 

army:  current  organization  of,  233-34; 
establishment  and  development  of, 
222-23;  experience  in  Chaco  War  of, 
224;  political  role  of,  221,  224-25, 
227-28;  power  of,  229;  Ranger  force  of, 
229;  reorganizations  of,  223-24,  226; 
seizes  power  (1934),  224-25;  size  of, 
228,  233;  training,  240-43 

Army  Artillery  School  (Escuela  de  Artil- 
leria  del  Ejercito:  EAE),  241 

Army  Condors  School  (Escuela  de  Con- 
dores  del  Ejercito:  ECE),  241 

Army  Health  Organization,  224 

Artillery  and  Antiair  Defense  Group 
(Grupo  de  Artilleria  y  Defensa  An- 
tiaerea:  GADA),  233 

assassinations,  xxxii-xxxiii,  165,  267 

Association  of  Tin  Producing  Countries, 
137 


Atacama  Desert,  xxviii,  20,  22 

Atahualpa,  7 

Atlantic  Ocean,  xxix 

Authentic  Nationalist  Revolutionary 
Movement  (Movimiento  Nacionalista 
Revolucionario  Autentico:  MNRA), 
38,  46 

Aviation  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Aviation), 
224 

ayllu,  6,  102,  181 
Aymara  kingdoms,  3,  6-7,  59 
Aymara  people,  63;  contact  with  Incas  of, 
xxvi,  6-7;  education  for,  96;  effect  of 
agrarian  reform  on,  72;  family  struc- 
ture of,  80-81;  history  of,  xxiv;  popu- 
lation concentrations  of,  xxiv;  religion 
of,  92 ;  subjection  by  Spaniards  of,  xxvii 

BAB.  See  Agricultural  Bank  of  Bolivia 
balance  of  payments,  xxxiii,  150,  152-53, 

185;  current  and  capital  account  levels 

of,  153;  support  for,  156 
Ballivian,  Adolfo,  xxviii-xxix,  22 
Ballivian  Rojas,  Hugo,  34 
Ballivian  y  Segurola,  Jose,  xxviii,  19-20, 

164 

Bamin.  See  Mining  Bank  of  Bolivia 

Banco  de  San  Carlos,  10 

Banest.  See  State  Bank 

banking  system  {see  also  Central  Bank), 
10,  108,  246;  commercial  banks  in, 
142-44;  dollar  versus  peso  accounts  in, 
143;  foreign  banks  in,  142-43;  govern- 
ment ownership  of,  105;  public  sector 
institutions  in,  144;  specialized  banks 
in,  143-44 

Bank  of  Cochabamba,  143 

Bank  of  Santa  Cruz,  142-43 

Banzer  Suarez,  Hugo,  4,  43-45,  90,  161, 
184;  administration  of,  104;  in  1985 
elections,  187;  in  1989  elections,  xxxii; 
manipulation  of  peasants  by,  200,  202; 
military  in  regime  of,  230;  position  on 
NPE  of,  188 

Barbie,  Klaus,  xxx,  46 

barley  crop,  120 

Barrientos  Ortuno,  Rene,  administration, 

4,  39-41,  168,  196,  228 
barter  system,  xxxi,  105 
Battle  of  Ayacucho  (1824),  16 
Battle  of  Ingavi  (1841),  19,  223 
Battle  of  Tacna  (1880),  223 


334 


Index 


Battle  of  Yungay  (1839),  19,  223 
Bedregal  Gutierrez,  Guillermo,  215,  216 
Belem  (Brazil),  148 

Belzu  Humerez,  Manuel  Isidoro,  xxviii, 
20,  164 

Beni  Department,  55,  83,  119,  127,  259, 
264 

Beni-Madre  de  Dios-Orton  river  system, 

56,  147 
Beni  River,  56 

BIP.  See  Multipurpose  Intervention  Bri- 
gade 

bismuth-mining  industry,  137 
black  market  economy,  xxxiii,  102,  109, 
126 

blacks  in  Bolivia,  xxvii,  62 
blancos,  51,  59,  61,  69,  86 
Blanco  Soto,  Pedro,  xxxii 
Bolivarian  constitution.  See  constitution 
(1826) 

Bolivar  Palacios,  Simon,  xxvii,  16-17,  72, 
162;  as  first  president,  16-17 

Bolivia  Electricity  Company  (Compama 
Boliviana  de  Energfa  Electrica),  132 

Bolivian  Air  Force  (Fuerza  de  Aviacion 
Boliviana:  FAB),  225,  235-36;  anti- 
narcotics  Task  Force,  262,  264; 
General  Command  Systems  Depart- 
ment of,  236;  Hunter  Air  Groups  of, 
236;  Salvage  and  Rescue  Air  Group  51 , 
236;  Search  and  Rescue  Group  52,  236; 
Tactical  Air  Groups  of,  236;  training, 
243;  Training  Air  Groups  of,  236 

Bolivian  Air  Transports  (Transportes 
Aereos  Bolivianos:  TAB),  236-37 

Bolivian  American  Bank,  143 

Bolivian  Bishops  Conference  (Conferencia 
Episcopal  Boliviana:  CEB),  90,  92,  199 

Bolivian  Catholic  University,  94 

Bolivian  Cement  Company  (Sociedad 
Boliviana  de  Cementos),  142 

Bolivian  Coffee  Committee  (Comite  Bo- 
liviano del  Cafe:  Cobolca),  123 

Bolivian  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comu- 
nista  Boliviano:  PCB),  34,  185,  192 

Bolivian  Development  Corporation  (Cor- 
poracion  Boliviana  de  Fomento:  CBF), 
105,  107,  140,  171 

Bolivian  Geologic  Survey  (Servicio  Geo- 
logico  de  Bolivia),  139 

Bolivian  Institute  for  Agricultural  Tech- 
nology (Instituto  Boliviano  de  Tecnolo- 
gfa  Agricola:  IBTA),  126 


Bolivian  Institute  of  Coffee  (Instituto  Boliv- 
iano de  Cafe),  123 

Bolivian  Institute  of  Tourism  (Instituto 
Boliviano  de  Turismo),  149 

Bolivian  Investment  Bank  (Banco  de  In- 
versiones  Boliviano),  144 

Bolivian  Iron  and  Steel  Promotion  Unit 
(Unidad  Promotora  de  la  Siderurgia 
Boliviana),  139 

Bolivian  Justice  and  Peace  Commission, 
90,  92 

Bolivian  Labor  Federation  (Central  Obrera 
Boliviana:  COB),  36,  38,  41-42,  92, 
110,  168;  creation  and  development  of, 
xxx,  198;  opposition  to  United  States 
military  presence  by,  264-65;  outlaw- 
ing and  return  of,  199;  political  partic- 
ipation and  power  of,  186,  188,  198; 
resistance  to  NPE  of,  188 

Bolivian  Naval  Force  (Fuerza  Naval  Boli- 
viana), 227 

Bolivian  Navy  (Armada  Boliviana),  227; 
districts  and  equipment  of,  234-35; 
Naval  Hydrographic  Service  of  Bolivia, 
238;  size  and  duties  of,  234-35 

Bolivian  Nuclear  Energy  Commission 
(Comision  Boliviana  de  Energfa  Nu- 
clear), 133 

Bolivian  Shipping  Company  (Empresa 
Naviera  Boliviana:  Enabol),  238 

Bolivian  Socialist  Falange  (Falange  So- 
cialista  Boliviana:  FSB),  31,  43-44 

Bolivian  State  Petroleum  Company  (Y aci- 
mientos  Petrolfferos  Fiscales  Bolivianos: 
YPFB),  104-5,  107;  as  autonomous  en- 
terprise, 171;  restructuring  of,  129;  reve- 
nues of,  108 

bolsin,  109 

Bonaparte:  Joseph,  15;  Napoleon,  15 
border  disputes  (see  also  Chaco  War;  War 

of  the  Pacific),  22-23,  26,  102-3,  207, 

208,  223 
boron  deposits,  139 
Bourbon  Dynasty,  10,  15 
Brazil:  accord  for  gas  pipeline  and  sales 

with,  126,  141,  216;  agreement  related 

to  petroleum  product  sales,  131-32; 

border  dispute  with,  26,  208,  223; 

border  with,  52;  relations  with,  208, 

216;  trade  with,  127,  138,  152,  208; 

treaty  with,  22,  26;  use  of  ports  in,  148 
Britain,  138 

budget  deficit,  xxxi,  185-87 


335 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


bureaucracy,  172,  181 

Busch  Becerra,  German,  31,  165,  225 


Cacen.  ^Central  Housing  Savings  and 

Loan  Board 
Callahuaya  people,  62 
Cambas,  86,  202 

Campero  Leyes,  Narcisco,  23-24,  223 

campesinos.  See  agricultural  sector;  peas- 
ants 

cantons,  181 

Capac,  Huayna,  7 

capital  movements,  105,  153,  155 

Carabineer  Regiment  (Regimiento  de 
Carabineros),  248 

Cariaga,  Juan,  205 

Carrasco,  Jorge,  207 

Carter,  Jimmy,  45,  208,  209 

cassiterite.  See  tin-mining  industry 

Castro  Ruz,  Fidel,  214 

C  atari  (Katari),  Tomas,  14 

Catavi-Siglo  XX  mines  massacre,  40,  42, 
76 

caudillos.  See  military  leaders  (caudillos) 
CBF.  See  Bolivian  Development  Corpo- 
ration 

CEB.  See  Bolivian  Bishops  Conference 

cells,  military  (celulas  militares),  226 

CEM.  See  Staff  College 

cement  industry,  142 

Center  for  Forestry  Development  (Cen- 

tro  de  Desarrollo  Forestal),  128 
Center  for  Instruction  of  Special  Troops 

(Centro  de  Instruction  para  Tropas  Es- 

peciales:  CITE),  229 
Center  for  Tropical  Agricultural  Research 

(Centro  de  Investigaciones  de  Agricul- 

tura  Tropical:  CIAT),  126 
Central  American  Defense  Council  (Con- 

sejo  de  Defensa  Centroamericano:  Con- 

deca),  239-40 
Central  Bank  (Banco  Central):  activities 

of,  108-9;  functions  of,  xxxi,  144 
Central  Housing  Savings  and  Loan  Board 

(Caja  Central  de  Ahorro  y  Prestamo 

para  la  Vivienda:  Cacen),  144 
CEPB.  See  Confederation  of  Private  En- 
trepreneurs of  Bolivia 
Chaco  Generation,  30 
Chaco  region,  xxiii,  8,  55-56,  58 
Chaco  War  (1932-35)  {see  also  Paraguay), 


3,  29-30,  103,  165,  208,  221,  224;  ar- 
mistice of,  225;  cost  of,  xxix 

Chapare  region:  coca-growing  and  drug- 
trafficking  activities  in,  84,  125,  257, 
260,  261,  262,  264,  265,  266 

Chile,  19;  border  dispute  with,  22-23, 
26,  102-3;  border  with,  52;  namesake 
political  party  of,  195;  negotiation  for 
ocean  access  with,  216;  relations  with, 
216;  trade  with,  127;  treaty  with,  22, 
23,  26;  use  of  ports  in,  148,  208;  in 
War  of  the  Pacific,  xxvii-xxviii,  3,  164, 
208,  215,  221,  223;  war  with  (1839), 
19 

China,  214 

Chiquitano  people,  63 

Chiriguano  people,  8,  62 

cholo,  61,  66,  68-69,  79 

Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Dem- 
ocrata  Cristiano:  PDC).  See  Nationalist 
Democratic  Action 

Christianity  (see  also  religions;  Roman 
Catholic  Church),  13 

Church  and  Society  in  Latin  America- 
Bolivia  (Iglesia  y  Sociedad  en  America 
Latina-Bolivia:  ISAL-Bolivia),  90 

CIAT.  See  Center  for  Tropical  Agricul- 
tural Research 

CITE.  See  Center  for  Instruction  of  Spe- 
cial Troops 

Citibank,  142 

Civic  Committee,  203 

civil  aeronautics  school,  236 

class  structure.  See  social  structure 

climate,  56,  58 

CME.  See  "Colonel  Gualberto  Villarroel" 

Army  Military  Academy 
CNSS.  See  Social  Security  Institute 
COB.  See  Bolivian  Labor  Federation 
Cobolca.  See  Bolivian  Coffee  Committee 
Coca,  Ariel,  256 

Coca  Eradication  Directorate  (Direction 
de  la  Reconversion  de  la  Coca:  Direco), 
125,  258 

coca  industry  and  trade,  13-14,  84,  105, 
112;  African  slaves  in,  xxvii;  airstrips 
for,  147;  crops  as  alternative  to,  xxxv, 
123,  125;  declared  illegal,  125;  dollar 
laundering  in,  143;  effect  of  Antinar- 
cotics  Law  (1988)  on,  258-59,  261-64; 
effect  of  Operation  Bol-USA  on,  261- 
62;  eradication  program  for,  xxxiv- 
xxxv,  125,  210-11,  257-58;  labor  force 


336 


Index 


in,  xxxiii-xxxiv,  239;  Medellm  Cartel 
in,  255;  militarization  of  growing  areas 
in,  261 ;  revenues  from,  20;  size  and  im- 
portance of,  xxxiv,  124-26,  150;  worker 
opposition  to  United  States  military  and 
DEA,  264-65 

cocaine  industry,  46,  84,  97,  105,  124-26; 
influence  of,  178;  Medellm  Cartel  in, 
255;  volume  of  traffic  and  production 
in,  xxxiii,  210-11 

Cochabamba  (city),  55,  59,  87 

Cochabamba  Department,  55,  124,  127; 
population  increase  in,  83 

Cochabamba  Institute  of  Social  and  Eco- 
nomic Studies,  xxxiii 

Cochabamba  Light  and  Power  Company 
(Empresa  de  Luz  y  Fuerza  Electrica  de 
Cochabamba),  132 

Cochabamba-Santa  Cruz  highway,  145, 
156 

cocoa  production,  124 

Code  of  Criminal  Military  Procedure,  245 

Cofadena.  See  Armed  Forces  National  De- 
velopment Corporation 

coffee  production,  123 

Coipasa  Saltpan,  53 

Colmilav.  See  "German  Busch"  Military 
Aviation  Academy 

Colombia,  xxxv,  222,  255 

"Colonel  Gualberto  Villarroel"  Army 
Military  Academy  (Colegio  Militar  del 
Ejercito  "Coronel  Gualberto  Villar- 
roel": CME),  240-41 

colonization  (see  also  coca  industry  and 
trade):  army  role  in,  226;  effect  of, 
83-86,  118-19,  128;  government- 
sponsored  and  spontaneous,  83-84, 
116 

Comibol.  See  Mining  Corporation  of  Bo- 
livia 

communications  system,  148-49 
compadrazgo,  81-82 

Conalid.  See  National  Council  Against  the 
Unlawful  Use  and  Illicit  Trafficking  of 
Drugs 

Conapol.  See  National  Council  for  Politi- 
cal and  Social  Affairs 
Conase.  See  National  Security  Council 
Condeca.  See  Central  American  Defense 
Council 

Condepa.  See  Conscience  of  the  Father- 
land 

Condorcanqui,  Jose  Gabriel,  14 


Condor  (satellite  communications  sys- 
tem), 149 

Confederation  of  Private  Entrepreneurs  of 
Bolivia  (Confederacion  de  Empresarios 
Privados  de  Bolivia:  CEPB):  conflict 
with  COB  of,  186-87;  philosophy  and 
role  of,  187,  204-5 

conflict,  regional,  116 

Congress:  Chamber  of  Deputies  of,  173, 

174-  75,  176;  under  1826  constitution, 
162;  under  1831  constitution,  163-64; 
duties  and  activities  of,  173-74;  over- 
sight of  executive  department,  174;  po- 
litical power  of,  173-74;  Senate  of,  173, 

175-  76,  177;  strength  and  role  of, 
172-73 

congressional  commission  (comision  de  con- 

greso),  176 
Conscience  of  the  Fatherland  (Concien- 

cia  de  la  Patria:  Condepa),  192 
conscription,  231,  233,  238-39 
Conservative  Party  (Partido  Conservador), 

3,  18 

constitution  (1825),  162 

constitution  (1826),  162-63 

constitution  (1831),  163 

constitution  (1880),  164 

constitution  (1938),  31,  165 

constitution  (1944),  165 

constitution  (1947),  165,  168 

constitution  (1961),  168 

Constitution  (1967),  90,  168-69,  171,  173, 
176,  177;  extradition  rules  under,  269; 
provisions  for  military  sector  in,  231; 
rules  for  political  parties  under,  180 

Constitution  and  Justice  Committee,  Sen- 
ate, 270 

construction  industry,  141-42 

Contadora  process,  214 

cooperatives:  mining,  138;  promotion  by 
MNR  of,  104 

Copceo.  See  Permanent  Executive  Coor- 
dination and  Operations  Council 

Corbett,  Charles  D.,  226,  228 

Cordillera  Central  (Andes  Mountains), 
54-55 

Cordillera  Occidental  (Andes  Moun- 
tains), 52-53,  58,  59 

Cordillera  Oriental  (Andes  Mountains), 
53-55,  58 

Cordillera  Real  (Andes  Mountains),  xxiii, 
54,  59;  Yungas  area  of,  52,  55,  58,  59, 
63,  70,  71 


337 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Cordova,  Jorge,  20 

Corn  and  Sorghum  Producers  Association 
(Productores  de  Maiz  y  Sorgo:  Proma- 
sor),  120 

corn  crop,  1 19-20 

Corr,  Edwin,  209,  210 

correctional  farm,  272 

corregidor,  1 1 

corregidores  de  indios,  12-13,  14 

corruption  (see  also  antinarcotics  pro- 
grams; coca  industry  and  trade;  cocaine 
industry),  xxxiv,  46,  222,  256-57 

Costa  Rica,  215 

cotton  industry,  44,  123-24 

Council  of  Ministers,  169 

counterinsurgency,  41,  229 

counterinsurgency  exercises:  Absalom, 
246,  265;  United  States  87-Bolivia, 
246;  United  Forces  88,  265 

counterinsurgency  policy  and  programs, 
221,  229,  246,  254 

coups  d'etat:  in  1847,  20;  in  1861,  20;  in 
1930,  28;  in  1936,  30-31;  in  1943,  32; 
in  1946,  33,  165;  in  1964,  4,  228;  in 
1969,  41,  46,  169;  in  1974,  44;  in  1978, 
45;  in  1979,  46;  in  1980,  46;  in 
1980-81,  5,  178,  185;  attempts  in  1949, 
1952,  1970,  1974,  34,  35,  42,  44 

courts  (see  also  Ministry  of  Interior,  Mi- 
gration, and  Justice):  civil  and  crimi- 
nal trial,  177;  electoral,  179;  mayors', 
177;  military,  225,  239,  245;  narcotics- 
related,  222,  270-71;  national  labor, 
177;  small  claims,  177;  system  of,  173, 
174,  177,  179,  267-68 

credit  markets,  143;  foreign,  153-54;  re- 
sponse to  external  debt  of,  113,  154-55 

credit  unions,  144 

criollos,  14-16 

crops,  119-26 

CSDN.  See  Supreme  Council  of  National 
Defense 

CSUTCB.  See  General  Trade  Union  Con- 
federation of  Peasant  Workers  of  Bo- 
livia 

Cuba,  xxx,  xxxi,  214,  215,  229 
currency:  depreciation  of,  37,  101,  105; 
devaluation  of,  44,  109,  150;  replace- 
ment of,  109;  speculation  in,  143 
Customs  Police  (Policia  de  Aduana),  249, 
252 

Cuzco,  6,  7,  8 
Czechoslovakia,  225 


dairy  industry,  127 

Daza  Groselle,  Hilarion,  22-23 

DEA.  See  United  States  Drug  Enforce- 
ment Administration 

debt,  external  (see  also  Paris  Club),  xxxi, 
17,  101,  105,  106-7,  153-55,  184,  185, 
187,  211 

Decree  21060  (New  Economic  Policy), 
187-88 

defense  budget.  See  spending,  public 
deforestation,  xxxv-xxxvi,  85-86,  128 
Democratic  and  Popular  Unity  (Unidad 
Democratica  y  Popular:  UDP),  46, 
185;  Siles  Zuazo  as  leader  of,  185-86 
DEN.  See  National  Executive  Directorate 
Desaguadero  River,  53,  59 
development  bank,  144 
development  corporations,  regional,  171 
DGAC.  See  General  Directorate  of  Civil 

Aeronautics 
Diez  de  Medina,  Fernando,  27 
DIN.  See  Directorate  of  National  Inves- 
tigations 

Directorate  of  National  Investigations  (Di- 
rection de  Investigaciones  Nacionales: 
DIN),  249 

diseases,  96-97 

DNCSP.  See  National  Directorate  for  the 
Control  of  Dangerous  Substances 

"Dr.  Ladislao  Cabrera  Vargas"  Naval 
Staff  College  (Escuela  de  Estado  Mayor 
Naval  "Dr.  Ladislao  Cabrera  Vargas": 
EEMN),  243 

drought,  113,  119 

drugs.  See  narcotics  industry;  narcotics 
use 

Dunkerley,  James,  228 

EAA.  See  "Marshal  Jose  Ballivian"  School 
of  Arms 

EAE.  See  Army  Artillery  School 
EAEM.  See  School  of  High  Military  Stud- 
ies 

EAEN.  See  School  of  High  National  Stud- 
ies 

EAN.  See  Naval  Application  School 
Eastern  Airlines,  213 
EBPV.  See  Young  Men's  Basic  Police 
School 

EC.  See  "Sergeant  Maximiliano  Paredes" 

Noncommissioned  Officers  School 
ECE.  See  Army  Condors  School 


338 


Index 


ECEM.  See  "Marshal  Andres  de  Santa 
Cruz"  Command  and  Staff  School 

economic  assistance  {see  also  military  as- 
sistance), 4,  122,  145,  153-55;  based 
on  drug  regulation  programs,  210,  258, 
261;  from  Brazil,  216;  for  Emergency 
Social  Fund,  106;  multilateral  and 
bilateral,  155-56;  from  United  States, 
xxxv,  28,  125,  208 

economic  development,  101 

economic  performance,  xxiii,  xxxvii,  4, 
24,  28,  37-38,  40,  101-2,  104,  109,  185 

economic  policy.  See  New  Economic  Pol- 
icy 

ECT.  See  Technical  Training  School  of 

the  Air  Force 
education,  legal,  178 
education,  military,  35,  222-27,  240-41, 

243 

education,  police,  248-49,  253-54,  264 
education   system:    development  and 
problems  of,  93-96;  legislation  for  pub- 
lic education  in,  93-94;  rural  schools 
in,  93 

EEMN.    See   "Dr.    Ladislao  Cabrera 

Vargas"  Naval  Staff  College 
EGA.  See  "General  Rene  Barrientos 

Ortufio"  Air  War  School 
EIM.  See  "General  Jose  Manuel  Pando" 

School  of  Military  Engineering 
electoral  law  (1980),  180 
electoral  law  (1986),  179-80,  190 
electoral  system,  178-80;  in  1989  elec- 
tions, 192;  fraud  in,  45,  180;  municipal 
elections,  181;  reforms  for,  45,  180 
electricity  {see  also  hydroelecticity),  132-33 
elite  class.  See  social  structure 
ELN.  See  National  Liberation  Army 
EM.  See  Staff  (army) 
Emergency  Social  Fund,  106,  156 
EMG.  See  General  Staff 
EML.  See  Littoral  Naval  School 
employment.  See  labor  force 
Enabol.  See  Bolivian  Shipping  Company 
encomienda  system,  10,  60,  102 
ENDE.  See  National  Electricity  Company 
energy  sector,  128-33 
Enfe.  See  National  Railroad  Enterprise 
ENM.  See  Naval  Military  School 
Entel.  See  National  Telcommunications 

Enterprise 
enterprises,  private,  136,  142 
enterprises,  state-owned  (see  also  Mining 


Corporation  of  Bolivia),  xxxvi,  xxxvii, 

107,  108,  142,  171-72 
eradication  program,  coca,  xxxiv-xxxv, 

123,  125,  257-58 
erosion,  128 

Escobari  Cusicanqui,  Jorge,  207 

ESG.  See  Superior  War  School 

ESP.  See  Higher  Police  School 

Estalsa  Boliviana,  136 

Ethiopia,  215 

ethnic  groups,  59-69 

ethnic  identification,  51,  61,  63 

ETN.  See  Naval  Technical  School 

Europe,  Eastern,  208-9,  213 

exchange  rate  system,  105;  auction  in 
(bolsi'n),  109;  exchange  houses  in,  144; 
floating  policy  for,  150 

executive  branch.  See  government  struc- 
ture 

Explosives  Brigade  (Brigada  de  Explosi- 

vos),  252,  255 
export  promotion  institute,  150 
exports  (see  also  smuggling):  of  agricultural 
products,  113;  of  antimony,  138;  of 
beef,  147;  of  cattle,  127;  of  coca  and  co- 
caine, 46,  84,  124,  150;  dependence  on, 
xxxiii,  3;  of  gold,  138;  incentives  for 
producing,  106,  150;  of  minerals,  3,  25, 
44;  nontraditional,  139-40;  of  oil  and 
natural  gas,  40,  44,  128,  131,  150,  152; 
revenues  from,  104,  106,  149-50,  153; 
of  timber,  127-28;  of  tin,  xxxiii,  44, 
136,  150,  164;  of  tungsten,  138;  of  zinc, 
137 

Expreso  del  Sud  railroad,  147 
extradition  treaty,  Bolivia-United  States 
(1901),  269 

FAB.  See  Bolivian  Air  Force 

factionalism,  community,  73 

FALZW.  See  Zarate  Willka  Armed  Forces 
of  Liberation 

family  structure,  79-82 

Fanexa.  See  National  Factory  of  Explo- 
sives and  Munitions 

farming:  highland  (Altiplano),  118,  122; 
lowland,  118,  123,  126;  valley,  118-19, 
120,  122,  123 

Fatherland's  Cause  (Razon  de  Patria: 
Radepa),  32 

FEAE.  See  Special  Elite  Antiterrorist 
Force 


339 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  See  Ger- 
many, Federal  Republic  of 

"Federal  Revolution",  25 

FELCN.  See  Special  Antinarcotics  Force 

Feminine  Police  Brigade  (Brigada  Poli- 
cial Femenina),  252 

Ferdinand  VII  (king  of  Spain),  15 

fertility  rate,  97 

FF.  AA.  See  Armed  Forces 

fiestas,  urban  and  rural,  74,  77 

financial  sector:  deregulation  of,  108;  in- 
stitutions in,  144 

FIPZW.  See  Pablo  Zarate  Willka  National 
Indigenous  Force 

Fire  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Bomberos),  249, 
252 

fiscal  policy  (see  also  debt,  domestic),  106 
fishing  industry,  128 
floods,  113 

Fonvi.  See  National  Housing  Fund 

food  crops,  119-22 

Food  for  Peace  Program,  122,  156 

food-processing  industry,  141 

food  self-sufficiency,  113 

forced  labor,  3,  13;  abolition  of,  36;  draft 
system  (mita)  for,  6,  9-10,  60 

Foreign  Assistance  Act  (1985),  210-11 

foreign  policy:  Latin  American  integra- 
tion concept  in,  217;  with  neighboring 
countries,  215-17;  nonalignment  of, 
213-14;  relations  with  other  countries, 
207-13 

forests  and  woodland,  xxxiv,  116,  127-28 
FPN.  See  Nationalist  Popular  Front 
France,  223 

Free  Bolivia  Movement  (Movimiento  Bo- 
livia Libre:  MBL),  192,  196,  266 
Fnas  Ametller,  Tomas,  22 
frost,  119 
fruit  crops,  122 

FSB.  See  Bolivian  Socialist  Falange 
FSTMB.  See  Trade  Union  Federation  of 
Bolivian  Mineworkers 

GAD  A.  See  Artillery  and  Antiair  Defense 
Group 

Gallardo  Lozada,  Jorge,  42 

Gamarra,  Agustfn,  18-19 

Gamarra,  Eduardo  A.,  xxxii 

Garcia  Meza  Tejada,  Luis,  xxxii,  46, 
174,  185,  221;  corruption  in  regime  of, 
196,  256;  human  rights  violations  in  re- 


gime of,  214;  military  in  regime  of,  196, 
230;  seizes  power,  xxx 

Gelbard,  Robert  S.,  212 

Gendarmerie  Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Gendar- 
meria),  248 

General  Directorate  of  Civil  Aeronautics 
(Direction  General  de  Aeronautica 
Civil:  DGAC),  236 

"General  Jose  Manuel  Pando"  School  of 
Military  Engineering  (Escuela  de  In- 
generia  Militar  "General  Jose  Manuel 
Pando":  EIM),  226,  241 

"General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno"  Air 
War  School  (Escuela  de  Guerra  Aerea 
"General  Rene  Barrientos  Ortuno": 
EGA),  243 

General  Staff  (Estado  Mayor  General: 
EMG),  223-24,  231 

General  Trade  Union  Confederation  of 
Peasant  Workers  of  Bolivia  (Confeder- 
ation Sindical  Unica  de  Trabajadores 
Campesinos  de  Boliva:  CSUTCB), 
112,  202 

Generational  Group  (Grupo  Genera- 

cional),  44,  228,  230 
geographic  barriers,  51,  145,  147,  202, 

207 

geography,  52-58 
geothermal  energy,  133 
"German  Busch"  Military  Aviation  Acad- 
emy (Colegio  Militar  de  Aviation  "Ger- 
man Busch":  Colmilav),  224,  243 
Germany,  Federal  Republic  of,  39 
Germany:  military  influence  of,  223-24; 

military  mission  from,  25-26 
GES.  See  Special  Security  Group 
gold-mining  industry,  133,  138-39 
government  administration:  cantons  in, 
181;  departmental  divisions  for,  180- 
81,  182;  municipal  government  in, 
181-82;  provincial  divisions  of,  180- 
81,  182 

government  structure  (see  also  bureau- 
cracy), 168;  executive  branch,  169-72; 
judiciary,  176-78;  legislature,  172-76 

Great  Depression,  27-29,  103 

Grenada,  214 

Group  of  Eight,  215 

Gueiler  Tejada,  Lidia,  xxx,  46,  196 

guerrilla  activity,  229 

Guevara,  Ernesto  "Che,"  xxx,  41,  229 

Guevara  Arze,  Walter,  38-39,  46,  191, 
195 


340 


Index 


Gulf  Oil  Company,  40,  41,  129 
Gutierrez,  Mario,  43 
Gutierrez  Guerra,  Jose,  27 

hacienda,  70-71 

Hari  Krishna,  93 

health  care  system,  96-97 

Healy,  Kevin,  xxxiv,  261 

Hertzog  Garaizabal,  Enrique,  33-34 

Higher  Police  School  (Escuela  Superior 

de  Policias:  ESP),  254 
Higher  University  of  San  Andres,  18 
highlands.  See  Altiplano 
Hochschild,  Mauricio,  xxix,  27 
Hochschild  mines,  4,  103 
housing  market,  142 
Huanchaca  National  Park  slaying,  255; 

case  of,  255,  270 
Huascar,  7 

human  rights,  45,  208,  214,  265,  273;  in 

social  reform,  165;  violations  of,  45 
Hungary,  209 
Hunter  Air  Groups,  236 
hydroelectric  power,  128,  132-33 
hyperinflation  (see  also  barter  system;  cur- 
rency), xxxi,  101,  105,  106,  107,  108, 
143,  153 


IBTA.  See  Bolivian  Institute  for  Agricul- 
tural Technology 
Ichilo-Mamore  river  system,  147 
ICO.  See  International  Coffee  Organi- 
zation 

IDB.  See  Inter- American  Development 

Bank 
Illampu  peak,  54 
Illanes,  Fernando,  205,  210 
Illimani  peak,  xxiii,  54 
Ilo  (Peru),  148 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
imports:  controls  on  sugar,  123;  of  food, 
35,  37,  116;  of  illegal  agricultural 
products,  113;  liberalization  of,  105, 
140,  150;  volume  and  composition  of, 
152;  of  wheat,  25 
import-substitution  industrialization,  118 
INAC.  See  National  Institute  of  Civil  Aero- 
nautics 

INC.  See  National  Colonization  Institute 
Inca  Empire,  xxvi-xxvii,  6-7,  8,  59 
independence  (1825),  3,  17,  102 


Indians  (see  also  Aymara  people;  Quechua 
people):  in  armed  forces,  29,  229,  238; 
in  Altiplano,  Yungas,  and  valleys,  63- 
66;  changing  levels  of  population  of,  10, 
11,  13;  discrimination  against,  3,  25; 
factors  influencing  mobility  of,  51;  folk- 
Catholicism  of,  89,  92;  forced  labor 
policy  for,  3,6;  government  policy  for, 
63;  historical  status  of,  xxvii;  loss  of  cul- 
tural ties  for  some,  60-61;  in  lowland 
areas,  62-63;  migration  to  cities  of,  25, 
79;  as  peasants,  200;  protests  of  (1990), 
xxxv-xxxvi;  ratio  in  population  of, 
xxiv,  51;  rebellions  of,  7,  8,  13,  14,  20, 
22,  25,  28;  role  in  "Federal  Revolu- 
tion," 25;  transition  from  status  as,  68; 
tribute  (alcabala)  from,  3,  10-1 1,  19,  60 

Industrial  Bank  (Banco  Industrial),  143 

Industrial  Complex  of  the  Uyuni  Saltpan 
(Complejo  Industrial  de  los  Recursos 
Evaponticos  del  Salar  de  Uyuni),  139 

Industrial  Finance  Bank  (Banco  de  Finan- 
ciamiento  Industrial),  143-44 

Industrial  Incentives  law  (1971),  140 

industrial  sector  (see  also  construction  in- 
dustry; energy  sector;  manufacturing; 
mining  industry),  128-42;  import- 
substitution  industrialization  for,  118; 
labor  force  elite  in,  75;  size  of  labor 
force  in,  110 

inflation  (see  also  hyperinflation),  xxx- 
xxxi,  xxxvi,  xxxvii,  4,  35,  37,  38,  76, 
105,  106,  126,  161,  187 

informal  economy,  110,  112;  components 
of,  112-13,  141;  credit  market  in,  143 

infrastructure:  effect  of  limited,  113,  145; 
improvement  in,  72;  military  sector 
work  on,  237 

Institute  for  the  Rural  Development  of  the 
Altiplano  (Instituto  para  el  Desarrollo 
Rural  del  Altiplano:  IDRA),  126 

Institutional  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 
Revolucionario  Institucional:  PRI), 
Mexico,  184 

insurance  market,  144 

insurgency,  xxx,  41 

Integrated  System  of  Financial  Adminis- 
tration and  Governmental  Control  (Sis- 
tema  Integrado  de  Administracion 
Financiera  y  Control  Gubernamen- 
tales:  Safco),  172 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 


341 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Inter- American  Development  Bank  (IDB), 

145,  155-56,  217 
Inter- American  Foundation,  156 
interest  groups:  civic  committees  as,  202- 
3;  labor  unions  as,  42,  110,  112,  198- 
200;  military  as,  196-98;  miners  as,  36, 
40-41;  peasants  as,  36-37,  45,  200, 
202;  private  sector  as,  203-5 
International  Bismuth  Institute,  137 
International  Coffee  Organization  (ICO), 
123 

International  Drug  Enforcement  Confer- 
ence (1986),  261 
International  Mining  Company,  138 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF): 
aborted  stabilization  plans  of,  105;  ad- 
ministers escrow  fund,  155;  assistance 
from,  4,  40,  153,  155-56,  217;  austerity 
measures  recommended  by,  45;  Siles 
Zuazo  interaction  with,  186-87;  stabili- 
zation plan  (1956-57),  104;  stabiliza- 
tion plan  (1985),  101-2 
International  Police  (Interpol),  249 
International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  149 
International  Tin  Council  (ITC),  136 
Interpol.  See  International  Police 
investment,  foreign  direct,  xxxvi,  xxxvii, 
153 

investment,  public,  140 
iron-mining  industry,  139 
irrigation,  126 
Italy,  225 

Itenez-Paraguay  river  system,  148 
IU.  See  United  Left 


jails,  272 

Japanese  in  Bolivia,  116 

Jehovah's  Witnesses,  92 

Judicial  Police  (Policfa  Judicial),  268,  270 

judicial  system  (see  also  court  system), 
176-78,  222;  actions  in  drug-related 
cases  of,  270-71;  alleged  corruption  in, 
270;  extradition  under,  269;  mecha- 
nism for  illegal  drug  trafficking,  258-59 

Julius  III  (pope),  89 

Karachipampa  smelter,  134,  137 
Katarista  movement,  202 
Kennedy  International  Airport,  147 
kinship,  52,  72 


kinship  groups  (ayllus),  71 
Klein,  Herbert  S.,  9,  229,  230 
Kolata,  Alan,  xxvi 
Kolla  Indians,  xxiv,  xxvi 
Kollas,  86,  116 
Kollasuyo  economy,  6-7 
Kundt,  Hans,  223 

LAB.  See  Lloyd  Bolivian  Airline 
labor  force  (see  also  forced  labor):  associ- 
ation role  for,  77;  effect  of  coca  indus- 
try on,  126;  employed  in  agriculture, 
101-2,  113;  employment  in,  xxxiii, 
106,  110;  forced  labor  (mita)  system  in, 
60;  geographical  distribution  of,  110; 
of  manufacturing  sector,  141;  miners' 
militia,  36,  38,  40;  nonunionized  part 
of,  112;  radicalism  in,  33-34;  role  of 
miners  in,  35-36,  40-41,  76-77,  197; 
in  services  sector,  110;  size  and  growth 
in,  109-10;  unrest  in,  4;  women  in, 
110;  working-class  segment  of,  74-77 
labor  unions  (see  also  Bolivian  Labor  Fed- 
eration; miners;  strikes):  as  basis  for  de- 
velopment of  political  system,  165; 
coercion  by,  197,  199-200;  Convergence 
Axis  of,  200;  of  miners,  112,  198-99;  or- 
ganization of,  76;  of  peasants,  112,  202; 
repression  of,  104;  strength  of,  34,  110, 
112 

Lake  Poopo,  53 

Lake  Titicaca,  xxiii,  5-6,  53,  58,  147,  234 
land:  distribution  of,  35,  114;  reform  for 
ownership  of,  4,  36,  51,  70,  103,  114-16 
land  use,  116,  118-19 
languages:  Aymara,  3,  62,  63,  65-66,  76, 
96;  bilingual  and  trilingual  groups,  76; 
Callahuaya,  62;  Quechua,  6,  62,  63, 
65,  76,  96;  Spanish,  3,  62,  65,  76,  96 
La  Paz:  establishment  of,  8;  location  of, 
xxiii;  population  of,  87;  as  tin  indus- 
try center,  26 
La  Paz  Department,  124 
La  Paz  Departmental  Police,  252 
La  Paz  Municipal  Police,  252-53 
Latin  American  Bishops  Conference,  92 
Latin  American  Economic  System  (Sis- 
tema    Economico  Latinoamericano: 
SELA),  215 
Latin  American  Free  Trade  Association 
(LAFTA).  See  Latin  American  Integra- 
tion Association 


342 


Index 


Latin  American  Integration  Association 
(Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de  Inte- 
gration: ALADI),  152,  215 

Law  Governing  Trials  of  Responsibility, 
164 

Law  of  Regulations  for  Coca  and  Con- 
trolled Substances  (1988).  See  Anti- 
narcotics  Law  (1988),  212 

Law  on  Judicial  Organization  (1978),  267 

lead-mining  industry,  137 

Lechi'n,  Juan  Oquendo,  37,  38,  39,  188, 
194-95 

Leftist  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido  de 
Izquierda  Revolucionaria:  PIR),  31,  34 
legal  culture,  178 

legislation,  narcotics-related,  212,  258- 

59,  261-64,  266,  270 
Lend-Lease  Agreement,  225 
Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal),  3,  23-24; 

"Federal  Revolution"  of,  25;  opposition 

party  to,  27;  role  in  government  of,  25-26 
Liberators  of  America  Corridor  (Corredor 

Libertadores  de  America),  147 
Linares  Lizarazu,  Jose  Maria,  xxviii,  20 
literacy  rate,  93,  94 
lithium  deposits,  139 
Littoral  Naval  School  (Escuela  de  Mari- 

neria  Litoral:  EML),  243 
livestock  industry,  126-27 
llamas,  145 
llanos,  52,  110 

Lloyd  Bolivian  Airline  (Lloyd  Aereo  Boliv- 
iano: LAB),  147,  171 

lowland  region:  colonization  of,  116;  pop- 
ulation in,  51,  58,  59;  topography  and 
climate  of,  xxiii,  55-56 

Luque,  Hernando  de,  7 

machismo,  78 

macroeconomic  policy.  See  fiscal  policy; 

monetary  policy;  tax  policy 
Madeira  River,  56 
Madre  de  Dios  River,  56 
magnesium  deposits,  139 
Malloy,  James  M.,  xxx 
Mamore  River,  56 
Manco  Inca,  7-8 

manufacturing:  agricultural  product 
processing,  141;  labor  force,  141;  per- 
formance of,  139-40;  public  investment 
in,  140;  subsectors  of,  140-41 

marketing  networks,  72 


"Marshal  Andres  de  Santa  Cruz"  Com- 
mand and  Staff  School  (Escuela  de 
Comando  y  Estado  Mayor  "Mariscal 
Andres  de  Santa  Cruz":  ECEM),  226, 
241 

"Marshal  Jose  Ballivian"  School  of  Arms 
(Escuela  de  Aplicacion  de  Armas  "Ma- 
riscal Jose  Ballivian:  EAA),  225,  226 

Marxism,  31,  90,  196 

massacre:  of  miners  (1967),  40,  42;  of 
peasants  at  Tolata  (1974),  44,  202;  of 
working  class,  76 

Mataco-Mac'a  people,  63 

Matarani  (Peru),  148 

MBL.  See  Free  Bolivia  Movement 

Medellm  Cartel,  222,  255,  259 

media,  205-7 

Medium  Miners  Association  (Asociacion 

de  Mineria  Mediana),  134 
Melgarejo  Valencia,  Mariano,  xxviii, 

xxix,  20,  22,  164 
Mennonites,  93,  116 
Mercantile  Bank,  143 
mestizos,  16,  25,  51,  61,  66-69,  74,  86 
metal-fabricating  industry,  141-42 
metallurgical  complexes,  213 
metallurgy  academy,  10 
Methodists,  93 
Mexico,  184,  198 
Meza  Tejada,  Luis  Garcia,  5 
migration  {see  also  colonization):  to  cities, 

51 ;  to  Cochabamba,  87,  89;  effect  of,  73; 

effect  on  social  relations  of,  82-86;  in 

Inca  Empire,  59;  of  Indians,  25,  79;  to 

mining  regions,  27;  as  seasonal  workers, 

82 

Military  Academy  (Colegio  Militar),  35, 
222,  223,  224,  226,  227 

Military  Air  Transports  (Transportes  Ae- 
reos  Militares:  TAM),  147,  236 

military  assistance:  for  antidrug  programs, 
261;  from  Taiwan,  247;  United  States 
suspension  of,  208;  from  United  States, 
208,  221,  225,  227,  229,  245-  47,  261 

military  bases,  234 

Military  Criminal  Code,  245 

military  equipment,  233,  234-36 

military  exercises,  Bolivian-United  States, 
264-65 

military  leaders  (caudillos),  xxviii,  xxx, 

4-5,  19-22,  163-64 
Military-Peasant  Pact  (Pacto  Militar-Cam- 

pesino),  40 


343 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Military  Police,  237 

military  sector:  civilian  services  of, 
237-38;  conscription  in,  238-39;  drug- 
related  corruption  in,  256;  Generation- 
al Group  in,  44;  impact  of  1952  Revo- 
lution on,  226;  improvement  of,  25-26, 
197;  occupation  of  mines  by,  40,  44; 
proposals  for  constitutional  reform 
by,  231-32;  ranks,  insignia,  and  uni- 
forms of,  239-40;  revival  and  power  of, 
xxx,  227;  role  in  politics  of,  4,  196, 
227-28;  seizes  and  maintains  control 
(1964),  221,  225;  support  of  democracy 
by,  197;  training  for,  240-45 

military  zones,  or  regions,  224,  233 

militias,  miners',  36,  38,  40 

militias,  popular  (milicias  populates): 
decreased  strength  of,  227,  228;  estab- 
lishment and  growth  of,  226 

mineral  policy,  139 

mineral  resources  (see  also  mining  indus- 
try; tin-mining  industry),  3,  8-9,  17, 
25,  42,  44,  102,  133,  137-39 

miners:  massacres  of,  40,  42;  militias  of, 
36,  38,  40;  strikes  by,  27,  28,  32;  unions 
of,  112,  134,  198-99 

minifundios,  118 

Mining  Bank  of  Bolivia  (Banco  Minero 
de  Bolivia:  Bamin),  36,  105,  134,  144 

Mining  Company  of  Oruro,  136 

Mining  Company  of  the  Oriente,  139 

Mining  Corporation  of  Bolivia  (Corpora- 
tion Minera  de  Bolivia:  Comibol), 
103-4,  105,  107;  as  autonomous  enter- 
prise, 171;  creation  of,  xxx,  36;  elec- 
tricity generation  by,  132;  performance 
and  revenues  of,  37,  40,  108;  structure 
of,  39,  40,  133-34,  199 

mining  industry  (see  also  cooperatives, 
mining;  mineral  policy;  miners; 
smelters),  3,  8-10,  101;  cooperatives  in, 
136;  elite  group  in,  164;  medium 
miners  in,  134 

ministers  of  state,  169 

Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Campesino  Af- 
fairs, and  Livestock  Affairs,  125 

Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture,  94, 
134 

Ministry  of  Energy  and  Hydrocarbons, 
132 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Worship, 

261,  269 
Ministry  of  Information,  206 


Ministry  of  Interior,  248 

Ministry  of  Interior,  Migration,  and 

Justice:  Public  Ministry  of,  267-68; 

reformatory  supervision  by,  272;  Social 

Defense  Subsecretariat  of,  258,  264, 

267 

Ministry  of  National  Defense,  227,  233, 
235,  248 

Ministry  of  Peasant  Affairs,  37 

Ministry  of  Social  Services  and  Public 
Health,  97,  134 

Ministry  of  Taxation,  108 

Ministry  of  Transport  and  Communica- 
tions, 249 

minority  groups,  62 

MIR.  See  Movement  of  the  Revolution- 
ary Left 

Miranda,  Rogelio,  42 

missionaries,  Christian,  13,  63,  89 

mita  system,  6,  9-10,  13,  60,  102 

MITKA.  See  Tupac  Katari  Indian  Move- 
ment 

MNR.  See  Nationalist  Revolutionary 
Movement 

MNRA.  See  Authentic  Nationalist  Rev- 
olutionary Movement 

MNRI.  See  Nationalist  Revolutionary 
Movement  of  the  Left 

Monesterios,  Osvaldo,  207 

monetary  policy,  108 

Montes  Gamboa,  Ismael,  xxviii,  26 

MOR.  See  Revolutionary  Labor  Move- 
ment 

Morales  Hernandez,  Agustm,  xxxii,  22, 
164 

Moreira  Rojas,  Jorge,  xxxvii 

Mormon  religion,  92 

mortality  rate,  96 

mortgage  financing,  144 

Movement  of  the  Revolutionary  Left 
(Movimiento  de  la  Izquierda  Revolu- 
cionaria:  MIR),  185,  189-91,  195- 
96 

Mozambique,  215 

MPC.  See  Popular  Christian  Movement 
MRTK.  See  Tupac  Katari  Revolutionary 

Movement 
Multipurpose    Intervention  Brigade 

(Brigada  de  Intervention  Polivalente: 

BIP),  249 
municipal  government,  181-82 
Murillo,  Pedro  Domingo,  16 
Mutun  iron  mine,  139 


344 


Index 


narcoterrorism,  212,  255-56 

narcotics  abuse,  xxxiii,  xxxiv,  97-98,  222 

narcotics  industry.  See  antidrug  campaign; 
coca  industry  and  trade;  cocaine  indus- 
try; drug  abuse 

narcotics  trafficking  (see  also  Antinarcotics 
Law;  coca  industry  and  trade;  cocaine 
industry;  court  system;  legislation, 
narcotic-related;  MedelKn  Cartel;  Rural 
Area  Police  Patrol  Unit;  United  States), 
254-66 

National  Association  of  Soybean  Producers 
(Asociacion  Nacional  de  Productores  de 
Soya:  Anapo),  122-23 

National  Bank,  143 

National  Chamber  of  Mining  (Camara 

Nacional  de  Minena),  134 
National  Colonization  Institute  (Instituto 

Nacional  de  Colonization:  INC),  116 
National  Congress  of  Workers  (1912),  27 
National  Corps  of  Carabineers  (Cuerpo 

Nacional  de  Carabineros),  247 
National  Council  Against  the  Unlawful  Use 

and  Illicit  Trafficking  of  Drugs  (Con- 

sejo  Nacional  Contra  el  Uso  Indebido  y 

Trafico  Ilicitode  Drogas:  Conalid),  258, 

259 

National  Council  for  Political  and  Social 
Affairs  (Consejo  Nacional  Politico  y  So- 
cial: Conapol),  169 

National  Crusade  in  Favor  of  Indians,  28 

National  Directorate  for  the  Control  of 
Dangerous  Substances  (Direction  Na- 
cional para  el  Control  de  Sustancias 
Peligrosas:  DNCSP),  125,  169,  258 

National  Electoral  Court,  45,  173,  178-80 

National  Electricity  Company  (Empresa 
Nacional  de  Electricidad:  ENDE),  132 

National  Electrification  Institute  (Instituto 
Nacional  de  Electrification),  132 

National  Executive  Directorate  (Direc- 
torio  Ejecutivo  Nacional:  DEN),  260- 
61 

National  Factory  of  Explosives  and  Mu- 
nitions (Fabrica  Nacional  de  Explosivos 
y  Municiones:  Fanexa),  246 

National  Federation  of  Credit  Unions 
(Federacion  Nacional  de  Bancos  Co- 
operatives), 144 

National  Federation  of  Mining  Cooper- 
atives of  Bolivia  (Federacion  Nacional 
de  Cooperativas  Mineras  de  Bolivia), 
136 


National  Highway  Service  (Servicio  Na- 
cional de  Carreteras),  249 

National  Housing  Fund  (Fondo  Nacional 
de  Vivienda:  Fonvi),  142 

National  Indigenous  Congress,  33,  34 

National  Institute  for  Export  Promotion, 
106 

National  Institute  of  Civil  Aeronautics  (In- 
stituto Nacional  de  Aeronautica  Civil: 
INAC),  236 

National  Institute  of  Cooperatives  (Insti- 
tuto Nacional  de  Cooperativas),  136 

National  Investment  Institute  (Instituto 
Nacional  de  Inversiones),  140 

nationalism,  revolutionary,  41-43 

Nationalist  Democratic  Action  (Action 
Democratica  Nacionalista:  ADN):  Ban- 
zer  Suarez  as  leader  of,  161,  185-86, 
195;  Christian  Democratic  Party, 
189-90,  191;  corruption  in,  256-57;  ef- 
fect of  pacto  on,  188-90 

Nationalist  Popular  Front  (Frente  Popu- 
lar Nacionalista:  FPN),  43 

Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement 
(Movimiento  Nacionalista  Revolucio- 
nario:  MNR),  xxix,  32-33;  failures  of, 
184;  overthrow  (1964)  of,  37,  183,  194- 
95;  Paz  Estenssoro  as  leader  of,  161-62, 
168,  185;  policies  of,  101,  103-4,  188- 
90;  political  position  of,  165,  168,  194; 
role  in  1952  Revolution  of,  4,  35-39, 
194,  221 

Nationalist  Revolutionary  Movement  of 
the  Left  (Movimiento  Nacionalista 
Revolucionario  de  Izquierda:  MNRI), 
xxx,  185,  192 

nationalization,  3-4,  30,  32,  36,  37;  of 
mines,  168;  of  oil  industry,  129;  under 
revolutionary  nationalism,  41-43 

National  Leftist  Revolutionary  Party 
(Partido  Revolucionario  de  la  Izquierda 
Nacional:  PRIN),  39 

National  Liberation  Army  (Ejercito  de 
Liberation  Nacional:  ELN),  195,  229 

National  Police  (Policia  Nacional),  35, 
247 

National  Police  Academy  (Academia  Na- 
cional de  Politias),  248,  249,  254 

National  Police  Corps  (Cuerpo  Nacional 
de  Policia),  248-49;  Department  of  So- 
cial Communication  in,  252;  organiza- 
tion and  activities  of,  251-53;  search- 
and-destroy  drug  operations  of,  261 


345 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


National  Railroad  Enterprise  (Empresa 
Nacional  de  Ferrocarriles:  Enfe),  146- 
47,  171 

National  Road  Service  (Servicio  Nacional 
de  Caminos:  Senac),  145 

National  Security  Council  (Consejo  Na- 
cional de  Seguridad:  Conase),  169, 
231;  Permanent  Secretariat,  231 

National  Telecommunications  Enterprise 
(Empresa  Nacional  de  Telecomunica- 
ciones:  Entel),  148,  171 

National  Television  Company  (Empresa 
Nacional  de  Television),  148 

"national  unity  and  convergence  alli- 
ance," 189-90 

National  War  College.  See  School  of  High 
National  Studies 

National  Wheat  Institute  (Instituto  Na- 
cional del  Trigo),  120 

natural  gas  industry:  as  export  replace- 
ment, 101;  performance  of,  104,  131; 
reserves  of,  55,  56,  131 

natural  resources.  See  agricultural  sector; 
mineral  resources;  natural  gas  indus- 
try; oil  industry;  paper  industry;  tim- 
ber industry 

Natusch  Busch,  Alberto,  46 

Naval  Application  School  (Escuela  de 
Aplicacion  Naval:  EAN),  243 

naval  force,  227 

Naval  Military  School  (Escuela  Naval 

Militar:  ENM),  243 
Naval  Technical  School  (Escuela  Tecnica 

Naval:  ETN),  243 
Navarro,  Gustavo  (Tristan  Marof),  28, 

29 

New  Economic  Policy  (Nueva  Polftica 
Economica:  NPE),  92,  105-7,  112, 
129;  effect  of  Pact  for  Democracy  on, 
161-62,  188-90;  effect  of  policies  of, 
xxxi,  140,  161,  172;  resistance  to  and 
support  for,  187-88,  205;  technocrats 
in,  xxxi,  161 

Newlyweds  of  Death  (Los  Novios  de  la 
Muerte),  xxx 

newspapers,  148,  206-7 

New  Tribes  Mission,  63 

Nicolaus  loan,  28 

9th  of  April  Revolutionary  Vanguard  (V  an- 
guardia  Revolucionaria  9  de  Abril: 
VR-9  de  Abril),  191 
Nonaligned  Movement,  214,  215,  216 
NPE.  See  New  Economic  Policy 


Nueva  Palmira  (Uruguay),  148 


OAS.  See  Organization  of  American  States 

Occidental  International,  129 

officer  corps,  225,  226;  attitudes  of  youn- 
ger officers,  197-98;  demoralization  of, 
45;  in  drug  trafficking,  46,  230;  train- 
ing of,  229 

oil  industry,  44;  exploration  plans  for,  129; 
history  of,  129;  performance  of,  104, 
129;  production  in,  131;  refineries  of, 
129-30;  reserves  of,  55,  56,  104;  reve- 
nues of,  108 

oilseed  production,  124 

Olafieta,  Pedro  Antonio  de,  16 

Operation  Blast  Furnace,  197-98,  210, 
212,  222,  261 

Operation  Bol-USA  (Operation  Blast  Fur- 
nace), 261-62 

Operation  Snowcap,  264 

Organic  Law  of  Municipalities,  181 

Organic  Law  of  Police  and  Carabineers  of 
Bolivia  (1950),  248 

Organization  of  American  States  (OAS), 
156,  209,  215 

Oriente  region,  83,  84-85 

Oruro  (city),  87 

Ossio  Sanjines,  Luis,  xxxii,  189-90,  191 
Ovando  Candi'a,  Alfredo,  4,  39,  41,  169, 

208,  212,  214;  contribution  to  military 

sector  by,  228 


Pablo  Zarate  Willka  National  Indigenous 
Force  (Fuerza  Indigenista  Pablo  Zarate 
Willka:  FIPZW),  256 

pacenos,  65-66 

Pacheco  Leyes,  Gregorio,  xxix,  24 
Pacific  Ocean  access,  22-23,  208,  215,  216 
Pact    for   Democracy   (Pacto    por  la 

Democracia:  pacto),  161-62,  188-90,  210 
pacto.  See  Pact  for  Democracy 
Padilla  Arancibia,  David,  45,  230 
Palenque,  Carlos,  192 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), 

209 

Panama,  226,  229 
Pando,  Jose  Manuel,  25 
Pando  Department,  55,  119 
Pano  people,  63 
paper  industry,  141 


346 


Index 


Paraguay  (see  also  Chaco  War):  border 

with,  52;  war  with,  xxix,  3,  29-30,  103, 

208,  221,  224 
Paraguay  River,  xxix,  56 
Paris  Club,  xxxvi,  154,  213 
Patino,  Simon,  xxix,  27 
Patino  mines,  4,  32,  103 
Patriotic  Accord  coalition  (see  also  "national 

unity  and  convergence  alliance"),  xxxii, 

189-90, 
patron,  78 

patronage,  172,  177 

Paz  Estenssoro,  Victor,  xxviii,  32,  34-35; 
administration  of,  xxxii,  4,  37,  39,  76, 
161-62,  168;  antinarcotics  programs  of, 
210,  222,  258,  261-62,  266;  cabinet 
composition  (1989),  172;  Civic  Action 
Program  of,  237;  corruption  in  regime 
of,  256;  coup  against  (1964),  228;  for- 
eign policy  of,  214;  militia  formation 
by  government  of,  226;  New  Economic 
Policy  of,  xxxi,  92,  101,  105-6,  187-90; 
popularity  and  reelection  of,  187,  195; 
stabilization  policy  of,  109;  strengthen- 
ing of  army  by,  229 

Paz  Zamora,  Jaime,  169;  administration 
of,  231;  antinarcotics  institutions  under 
regime  of,  259;  economic  policies  of, 
xxxvi;  in  1985  elections,  187,  196;  in 
1989  elections,  xxxii,  189-90;  narcotics- 
related  activities  of,  xxxiv-xxxv 

PCB.  See  Bolivian  Communist  Party 

Peace  Corps,  xxxv,  42,  156,  208 

Peasant-Military  Pact,  200,  202 

peasants:  influence  of,  36-37;  militia  of, 
40;  rise  of  organizations  of,  73 

Penal  Code  (1978),  245,  269,  271 

penal  system,  271-73 

Penaranda  Castillo,  Enrique,  31-32 

penitentiary  (Panoptico),  272 

Pentecostal  religions,  92 

Pereda  Asbun,  Juan,  45 

Perez,  Elizardo,  93 

Permanent  Assembly  of  Human  Rights 
of  Bolivia  (Asamblea  Permanente  de 
Derechos  Humanos  de  Bolivia),  265 

Permanent  Executive  Coordination  and 
Operations  Council  (Consejo  Per- 
manente de  Coordinacion  Ejecutiva  y 
Operativa:  Copceo),  259-60 

Permanent  Tribunal  of  Military  Justice, 
245 

Peru  (see  also  Upper  (Alto)  Peru):  border 


with,  52;  invasion  by  (1827)  and 
attempts  to  invade,  18-19;  trade  with, 
127;  treaty  with,  22;  use  of  ports  in,  148; 
in  War  of  the  Pacific,  23,  164 
Peru-Bolivia  Confederation  (1836),  19, 
163-64 

petroleum  industry.  See  oil  industry 

Pilcomayo  River,  56 

Pinochet  Ugarte,  Augusto,  45 

pipeline,  gas,  128,  131,  141 

pipeline  accord,  126 

PIR.  See  Leftist  Revolutionary  Party 

Pizarro,  Francisco,  xxvii,  7-8 

Pizarro,  Gonzalo,  8 

Pizarro,  Ramon  Garcia  Leon  de,  16 

PMA.  See  Polytechnical  Military  School 
of  Aeronautics 

police  forces  (see  also  Judicial  Police;  Mili- 
tary Police;  National  Police;  Traffic 
Police),  226,  247-48,  247-49;  antinar- 
cotics, 222;  constitutional  powers  and 
limits  of,  268;  recruitment  and  train- 
ing in,  253-54 

police  forces,  special,  249,  251 

Police  General  Command,  249 

Police  Law  (1886),  248 

Police  School  (Escuela  de  Policfa)  (see  also 
National  Police  Academy),  248 

political  instability,  162,  164-65,  172,  182- 
83,  184-87;  effect  on  agricultural  sector 
of,  37-38,  114;  effect  on  IMF  attempts 
to  stabilize,  105;  in  1989  elections,  190- 
94;  from  1839  to  1879,  19-22 

political  system:  basis  for  party  develop- 
ment in,  165;  "Federal  Revolution"  in, 
25;  fragmentation  in,  45,  190-95;  new 
political  parties  in,  23,  190-95;  peasant 
and  Indian  organizations  in,  202;  rise 
of  new  groups  within,  31-33;  role  of 
media  in,  205-7;  role  of  rosea  in,  27,  28; 
role  of  tin-mining  executives  in,  25 

Polytechnical  Military  School  of  Aeronau- 
tics (Politecnico  Militar  de  Aeronautica: 
PMA),  243 

Popular  Assembly  (Asamblea  Popular), 
42-43,  184 

Popular  Christian  Movement  (Movimiento 
Popular  Cristiano:  MPC),  40 

population:  comparative  density  of,  xxiii- 
xxiv;  concentrations  of,  51,  58-59;  effect 
of  colonization  on  concentration  of,  83 ; 
growth  of,  51,  58,  116;  growth  of  urban, 
xxiv,  86-89;  increase  in  Chapare  region 


347 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


of,  83,  84;  Indians  in,  xxiv;  settlement 
in  Yungas  area  of,  58,  59 
populism,  165 

POR.  See  Revolutionary  Workers  Party 
ports:  access  to,  148,  207-8;  facilities  of, 
148 

post  offices,  149 
potassium  deposits,  139 
potato  crops,  119 

Potosi' (city),  xxvii,  8-10,  26,  87,  102,  137 
Potosi' Department,  26,  96,  136,  137-38 
Prado  Salmon,  Gary,  44 
precipitation,  52-53,  55-56,  58 
prefects,  departmental,  181 
president:  powers  and  duties  of,  169,  171, 
231 

PRI.  See  Institutional  Revolutionary  Party 
price  system:  for  food  and  agricultural 
products,  113,  116;  government  con- 
trols for,  44 
PRIN.  See  National  Leftist  Revolutionary 
Party 

private  sector  {see  also  enterprises,  private): 
as  interest  group,  203-5;  before  1952 
Revolution,  203-4 

privatization,  xxxvi,  xxxvii,  106,  171- 
72 

Promasor.  See  Corn  and  Sorghum  Pro- 
ducers Association 

protectionism,  140 

PS-1.  See  Socialist  Party  One 

Public  Ministry.  See  Ministry  of  Interior, 
Migration,  and  Justice 

Public  Prison,  Santa  Cruz  Department, 
273 

public  sector:  growth  of,  101-2,  103-5, 

172;  plan  to  decrease  size  of,  105 
pulpertas,  133-34 


Quechua  people  (see  also  Inca  Empire), 
6,  59;  education  for,  96;  effect  of  agra- 
rian reform  on,  72;  family  structure 
of,  80-81;  history  of,  xxiv;  population 
concentrations  of,  xxiv,  63;  religion 
of,  92;  subjugation  by  Spaniards  of, 
xxvii 

quinoa  crop,  120 

Quintanilla  Quiroga,  Carlos,  31 


radio  communication,  148,  206 


railroad  system:  to  cities  and  tin-mining 
areas,  26;  development  of,  145-47;  link 
to  Brazil  by,  26,  116;  to  Pacific  coast, 
24,  25  rain  forest,  55 

Ranger  School,  229 

Reactivation  Decree  (1987),  106 

Reagan,  Ronald,  209,  210-11 

rebellion:  of  miners,  34;  of  peasants,  44; 
of  students,  teachers,  and  workers,  33 

reforestation,  xxxv-xxxvi 

reformatories,  272 

religions:  Christianity,  13,  89-93;  folk- 
Catholicism,  92;  Indian,  13;  Roman 
Catholicism,  89-90,  92 

repression,  44 

Republican  Party,  3,  27 

Reserve  Officers  School  (Escuela  de  Ofi- 
ciales  de  la  Reserva),  223 

revolts,  military,  222 

Revolution  (1952):  adoption  of  universal 
suffrage  during,  xxix,  4,  163,  180;  eco- 
nomic goals  of,  103;  effect  on  social 
structure  of,  xxix,  68-69,  78;  impact  of, 
xxix-xxx,  4,  35-39,  168,  182-84,  221; 
land  reform  measures  of,  xxix,  4,  114; 
leaders  of,  xxix;  nationalization  policy 
of,  xxx 

Revolutionary  Front  of  the  Left  (Frente 

Revolucionario  de  Izquierda),  191 
Revolutionary  Labor  Movement  (Mo- 

vimiento   Obrero  Revolucionario: 

MOR),  267 
Revolutionary  Mandate  of  the  Armed 

Forces,  41 

Revolutionary  Workers  Party  (Partido 
Obrero  Revolucionario:  POR),  31,  34 
rice  crop,  120 

Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  agreement,  215,  217 
River  and  Lake  Force  (Fuerza  Fluvial  y 
Lacustre)  (see  also  Bolivian  Naval  Force), 

227 

river  systems,  53,  56,  147-48;  navigation 

on,  234 
road  system,  116,  145 
Roman  Catholic  Church:  newspaper  of, 

206 

Roman  Catholicism:  church  as  political 
force,  89-90;  diminished  role  of,  18,  26; 
as  important  religion,  89;  missionaries 
of,  13,  62;  organization  of  church,  92; 
role  in  social  unrest  of,  44 

Romero,  Fernando,  205 

Rosario  (Argentina),  148 


348 


Index 


rosea,  xxix,  27,  28,  29,  31,  103 

Rowell,  Edward,  210-11 

Royal  Dutch  Shell,  29 

rubber  industry,  24,  62 

Rural  Area  Police  Patrol  Unit  (Unidad 
Movil  Policial  para  Areas  Rurales: 
Umopar),  209,  212,  251,  257,  258,  259, 
261;  antinarcotics  training  for,  264;  in 
FELCN,  262 

Rural  Electricity  Cooperative  (Coopera- 
tiva  Rural  de  Electrificacion),  132 


Saavedra  Mallea,  Bautista,  27-28 
Safco.  See  Integrated  System  of  Financial 
Administration  and  Governmental  Con- 
trol 

Sajama  peak,  xxiii,  52 

Salamanca  Urey,  Daniel,  28-29,  164-65, 

224-25 
salt  flats,  53,  139 
San  Andres  University,  94 
Sanchez  de  Lozada,  Gonzalo,  191-92,  205 
Santa  Cruz  (city),  55,  87,  104;  location 

of,  xxiii 

Santa  Cruz  Department,  55,  104,  118-19; 
coca  industry  in,  124;  livestock  produc- 
tion in,  126-27;  oil  and  gas  production 
in,  131;  population  increase  in,  83 
Santa  Cruz  y  Calahumana,  Andres  de, 

xxviii,  18-19,  163-64,  222 
Santos  (Brazil),  148 
SAR.  See  Air  Rescue  Service 
satellite  communications  system,  149 
savings  and  loan  institutions,  144 
School  of  High  Military  Studies  (Escuela 
de  Altos  Estudios  Militares:  EAEM), 
227-28,  241 
School  of  High  National  Studies  (Escuela 
de  Altos  Estudios  Nacionales:  EAEN), 
228 

School  of  the  Americas  (Escuela  de  las 

Americas),  226,  229,  246 
secessionist  movement,  223 
Security  Police  (Policia  de  Seguridad), 

248 

security  services:  drug- related  corruption 
in,  256 

SELA.  See  Latin  American  Economic  Sys- 
tem 

Seleme,  Antonio,  35 

Selich,  Andres,  44 

Senac.  See  National  Road  Service 


Sendero  Luminoso  (Shining  Path),  266- 
67 

"Sergeant  Maximiliano  Paredes"  Non- 
commissioned Officers  School  (Escuela 
de  Clases  "Sargento  Maximiliano  Pa- 
redes": EC),  223,  241 
Serrate  Reich,  Carlos,  191,  207 
services  sector,  142-49;  labor  in,  110 
settlement.  See  colonization 
Seventh-Day  Adventists,  92 
sexenio  period  (1946-52),  33-35 
Shultz,  George  P.,  212,  256 
Siles  Reyes,  Hernando,  28,  224 
Siles  Salinas,  Luis  Adolfo,  41,  46,  229 
Siles  Zuazo,  Hernan,  32,  34,  37,  38, 
46-47,  105,  178,  184;  administration 
of,  xxx-xxxi,  185-87,  195-96;  antidrug 
program  of,  209,  261;  coup  attempts 
against,  xxx,  230;  election  (1982)  of, 
185;  reemergence  of,  195;  resistance  to 
NPE  by,  188 
silver  mines  {see  also  Potosf),  3,  8-9,  17, 
102 

silver-mining  industry,  137 

Simon  Bolivar  Group,  256 

Single  Convention  on  Narcotic  Drugs, 
Bolivia-United  States  (1961),  269 

slavery,  xxvii,  62 

smelters,  134,  137 

smuggling,  112,  150 

Social  Defense  Subsecretariat.  See  Minis- 
try of  Interior,  Migration,  and  Justice 

Socialist  Party  One  (Partido  Socialista 
Uno:  PS-1),  192 

Social  Security  Code  (1956),  98 

Social  Security  Institute  (Colegio  Na- 
cional  de  Seguridad  Social:  CNSS),  171 

social  security  system,  98 

social  structure:  blancos  in,  xxiv,  51,  59, 
69,  86;  cholos  in,  61,  66,  68-69,  79;  class 
stratification  in,  78-79,  165,  172,  183; 
class  structure  in,  51-52,  59;  criollos  in, 
14-16;  elite  class  in,  xxix- xxx,  75;  frag- 
mentation of,  51;  Indians  in,  51;  mes- 
tizo class,  16,  25,  51,  61,  66,  68-69,  74, 
86;  middle  class  in,  3-4,  27,  51,  78-79, 
172,  194;  minority  groups  in,  62;  penin- 
sulares  in,  14;  reform  of,  165;  role  of 
Popular  Assembly  in,  42-43;  in  rural 
areas,  70-74;  upper  class  in,  77-78;  in 
urban  areas,  74-79 

social  unrest,  4,  27,  28,  33,  35,  44,  45 

South  American  Mission,  63 


349 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Southcom.  See  United  States 

Soviet  Union,  156,  213;  relations  with, 
42,  208-9,  213 

soybean  production,  122-23,  124 

Spain:  Bourbon  kings  of,  10,  15;  colonial 
administrative  structure  of,  11-13,  14; 
colonial  rule  of,  3,  7-8,  59;  conquest 
of  Inca  Empire  by,  xxvii,  7;  influence 
of,  3;  intendancy  system  of,  12;  mili- 
tary mission  from,  225;  overthrow  of 
kin  in,  15 

Spanish  language,  73-74 

Special  Antinarcotics  Force  (Fuerza  Es- 
pecial de  Lucha  Contra  el  Narcotrafico: 
FELCN),  251,  255,  259,  262 

Special  Elite  Antiterrorist  Force  (Fuerza 
Especial  Antiterrorista  de  Elite:  FEAE), 
251 

Special  Narcotics-Control  Courts,  270-71 

Special  Security  Group  (Grupo  Especial 
de  Seguridad:  GES),  249,  262 

spending,  public:  for  education,  94;  ef- 
fect on  economy  of,  104;  efforts  to 
reduce,  107,  172;  for  manufacturing 
sector,  140;  for  military,  17,  226,  227, 
228,  238;  for  social  programs,  4,  37,  40 

Staff  College  (Colegio  del  Estado  Mayor: 
CEM),  223,  224 

Staff  (army)  (Estado  Mayor:  EM),  224, 
240;  National  Directorate  of  Instruction 
and  Teaching,  240 

Standard  Oil  Company,  3,  29-30,  32 

State  Bank  (Banco  del  Estado:  Banest), 
144 

state  capitalism,  183-84 

state  of  siege,  xxxi,  xxxiii,  231 

stock  exchange,  xxxvi,  144 

strikes:  by  COB,  xxx-xxxi,  xxxvi,  186, 
197;  general,  46;  by  labor  unions,  42, 
110;  in  mining  industry,  27,  28,  32;  to 
protest  currency  devaluation,  44;  by 
teachers,  xxxiii 

Suarez  Gomez,  Roberto  ("King  of  Co- 
caine"), 155,  192,  256,  259 

Sucre,  55,  59 

Sucre  Alcala,  Antonio  Jose,  xxviii,  16-18, 

89-90,  247 
suffrage:  universal,  35,  72,  163,  168;  for 

women,  165 
sugar  production,  123 
Summer  Institute  of  Linguistics,  63 
Superior  War  School  (Escuela  Superior 

de  Guerra:  ESG),  225 


Supreme  Council  of  National  Defense 
(Consejo  Supremo  de  Defensa  Na- 
cional:  CSDN),  228 

Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  173,  174,  178, 
255;  composition  and  powers  of, 
176-77,  270-71;  in  Garcia  Meza  trial, 
256 

Supreme  Tribunal  of  Military  Justice 
(Tribunal  Supremo  de  Justicia  Militar), 
239,  245 

swamps,  55-56 

TAB.  See  Bolivian  Air  Transports 
Tacana  people,  63 
Taiwan,  214 

TAM.  See  Military  Air  Transports 
tariffs,  107,  140,  150 
Tarija  Department,  59,  124,  131 
tax  evasion,  108 

tax  system  {see  also  value-added  tax):  com- 
plexity of,  108;  effect  of  policy  on, 
106-7;  historical,  3,  10-11,  19-20,  60; 
reform  for  (1986),  xxxi,  106,  108,  140 

technical  assistance:  from  United  States, 
38 

Technical  Training  School  of  the  Air 
Force  (Escuela  de  Capacitacion  Tecnica 
de  la  Fuerza  Aerea:  ECT),  243 

Tejada  Sorzano,  Jose  Luis,  29 

telegraph  service,  149 

telephone  system,  148-49 

television  communication,  148,  206 

territorial  wars,  xxvii-xxviii 

terrorism  {see  also  narcoterrorism),  xxxiv, 
255,  267;  punishment  for,  271-72 

Tesoro  Petroleum,  129 

textile  industry,  141 

Thesis  of  Pulacayo,  34 

Tiahuanaco.  See  Tiwanaku 

timber  industry,  xxxv-xxxvi,  127-28,  141 

tin-mining  industry  {see  also  miners),  3, 
44;  development  and  success  of,  26, 
102,  103,  133,  164;  impact  on  middle 
class  of,  79;  important  families  of,  103; 
nationalization  of,  xxx,  168;  other  metals 
mined  by,  137;  performance  of,  xxxi, 
xxxiii,  26-27,  28,  35,  101,  106,  133, 
136-37,  150,  164;  plan  to  restructure, 
39;  reserves  of,  136;  revenues  of,  108; 
role  of  owners  and  management  of,  25, 
27 

Tiwanakan  Empire,  xxiv-xxv,  5-6 


350 


Index 


Tiwanaku  (ancient  city),  xxv,  3,  5,  149 

Tolata  massacre,  202 

Toledo,  Francisco  de,  9,  12 

Torelio  Villa,  Celso,  46 

Toro  Ruilova,  David,  30,  225 

Torres  Gonzalez,  Juan  Jose,  4,  42,  183, 
208,  212,  214,  230 

tourism  industry,  149 

trade  policy  {see  also  balance  of  payments), 
107;  effect  of  poor  transportation  on, 
144-45;  traditional  exports  of,  149 

Trade  Union  Federation  of  Bolivian  Mine- 
workers  (Federacion  Sindical  de  Traba- 
jadores  Mineros  de  Bolivia:  FSTMB), 
112,  198-99 

Traffic  Police  (Policia  de  Transito),  249, 
252,  268 

training,  military,  229,  236 

transportation  system:  air  travel  of,  147; 
energy  consumption  of,  128;  informal 
part  of,  113;  oil  and  gas  pipelines  in, 
126,  128,  131,  141,  145;  problems  of, 

144-  45;  railroad  development  plans  for, 

145-  47;  by  river,  56;  rivers  in,  147; 
roads  in,  145;  vehicular  traffic  in,  145 

Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  (1904), 
23,  26 

Treaty  of  Petropolis  (1903),  26 
Triangular  Plan,  39,  40 
Trinidad,  243 

Tristan  Marof.  See  Navarro,  Gustavo 
tungsten-mining  industry,  138 
Tupac  Amaru,  8 

Tupac  Amaru  II  {see  also  Condorcanqui, 

Jose  Gabriel),  8,  14 
Tupac  Katari  Indian  Movement  (Movi- 

miento  Indio  Tupac  Katari:  MITKA), 

202 

Tupac  Katari  National  Federation  of 
Bolivian  Peasant  Women  (Federacion 
Nacional  de  Mujeres  Campesinas  de 
Bolivia  Tupac  Katari),  112 

Tupac  Katari  Revolutionary  Movement 
(Movimiento  Revolucionario  Tupac 
Katari:  MRTK),  202 

Tupi-Guaram  people,  63 


UDP.  See  Democratic  and  Popular  Unity 
Umopar.  See  Rural  Area  Police  Patrol  Unit 
UN.  See  United  Nations 
Uncia  massacre,  76 


underground  economy.  See  black  market 

economy 
unemployment,  106,  110 
United  Forces  '88,  265 
United  Left  (Izquierda  Unida:  IU),  192, 

196 

United  Mining  Company  (Empresa  Min- 

era  Unificada),  137-38 
United  Nations  (UN),  156,  209,  269 
United  States:  agreement  related  to  coca 
industry  with,  125;  antinarcotics  agree- 
ment with,  222;  Army  Special  Forces, 
264;  Army  Special  Warfare  School,  229; 
assistance  with  debt  reduction  plan  by, 
155;  Border  Patrol  agents,  264;  congres- 
sional position  on  drug-related  spending, 
210-11;  economic  assistance  from,  4, 
38,  156,  211;  General  Accounting  Office 
report,  259;  limits  to  influence  of,  42; 
military  assistance  from,  221,  225,  227, 
229,  245-47,  261-62;  military  influence 
of,  221,  225,  227,  229;  narcotics-related 
relations  with,  xxxiv,  209;  PL-480  as- 
sistance by,  122;  relations  with,  32,  38, 
208,  210;  Southern  Command  (South- 
corn),  198,  229,  261;  technical  assistance 
from,  38;  trade  with,  40-41,  152 
United  States  Agency  for  International  De- 
velopment (AID),  122,  123;  assistance 
with  stock  exchange  by,  144;  financial 
assistance  from,  156;  funding  of  In- 
tegrated System  of  Financial  Adminis- 
tration and  Governmental  Control,  172; 
program  for  judicial  system  overhaul, 
178;  programs  dependent  on  effective 
coca  eradication  plans,  211 
United  States  Department  of  Defense,  156 
United  States  Department  of  State,  264, 
268,  273 

United  States  Drug  Enforcement  Adminis- 
tration (DEA),  xxxv,  156,  212,  255, 
262,  264,  265 

United  States  Geological  Survey,  139 

universities,  94,  126;  at  Chuquisaca,  14; 
Higher  University  of  San  Andres,  18; 
University  of  Bolivia,  94 

Upper  (Alto)  Peru,  163;  economic  and  po- 
litical importance  of,  8-15;  effect  of  cri- 
ollo/mestizo  revolt  on,  16-17;  power 
struggle  in,  15-16 

uranium  deposits,  133 

urban  areas,  51,  86-89 

Urriolagoitia  Harriague,  Mamerto,  34 


351 


Bolivia:  A  Country  Study 


Uru-Chipaya  people,  63 
Uruguay,  148 
Uru  people,  6 
Uyuni  Saltpan,  53,  139 


Vaca  Guzman,  Mario  Mercado,  207 
value-added  tax  (VAT),  106,  108,  113, 
140 

VAT.  See  value-added  tax 
Velasco  Alvarado,  Juan,  41 
Velasco  Franco,  Jose  Miguel,  19 
Viceroyalty  of  Peru,  11 
Viceroyalty  of  Rio  de  la  Plata,  1 1 
Vietnam,  215 

Vildoso  Calderon,  Guido,  46 

Villarroel  Lopez,  Gualberto,  xxxii,  32- 
33,  165,  225 

Villa  Victoria  massacre,  76 

Vinto  Smelting  Company,  134 

Viru-Viru  airport,  147 

VR-9  de  Abril.  See  9th  of  April  Revolu- 
tionary Vanguard 


wages,  38 

Wagner,  Maria  Luise,  230 
War  of  Acre  (1900-1903),  208,  223 
War  of  the  Pacific  (1879-83)  {see  also 
Atacama  Desert),  xxvii-xxviii,  3,  22- 
23,  102-3,  144-45,  164,  208, 215, 221, 
223 

water  supply,  96 
waterways,  inland,  56,  147 


Weisman,  Marvin,  209 

wheat  crop,  120,  122 

whites.  See  bianco s 

wildlife  preserve,  155 

women:  in  labor  force,  110;  in  middle- 
class  society,  79 

Women's  Reformatory,  272 

wood  products  industry,  127-28,  141 

working  class,  74-77 

World  Bank:  assistance  from,  153, 
155-56,  217;  assistance  with  stock  ex- 
change by,  144;  Enhanced  Structural 
Adjustment  Facility  of,  155;  funding  for 
electric  power  by,  132;  funding  of  In- 
tegrated System  of  Financial  Adminis- 
tration and  Governmental  Control, 
172;  railroad  rehabilitation  by,  147 

Yanez,  Placido,  20 

Young  Men's  Basic  Police  School  (Escue- 
la  Basica  Policial  de  Varones:  EBPV), 
253 

YPFB.  See  Bolivian  State  Petroleum  Com- 
pany 

Yungas  area  (see  also  Cordillera  Real): 
coca  cultivation  in,  258;  correctional 
farm  in,  272 


Zarate  Willka,  Pablo,  25 

Zarate  Willka  Armed  Forces  of  Libera- 
tion (Fuerzas  Armadas  de  Liberation 
Zarate  Willka:  FALZW),  267 

zinc-mining  industry,  42,  137 


352 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

353 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

354 


PIN:  004238-000 


