«5°*    : 


•^o4* 


<{,>        o  •  o  -     *<& 


<0 


4> 


<►    ♦*TV 


?V  v^v  ^^v  v^y   v^sv  v~v  °< 


V    **  ^    • 


*bK 


^6* 


•  «o 


5s  ^ 


^0^ 


••:<**  .o*  ..'.*!*    *o. 


^s> 


°c 


4  9* 


°o,  **7tT»*  aoP         ^ 


4  9* 


4?        * 


^m^m^m^Wiw^ 


*****  /4fe*    *  /  ' 


BUREAU  OF  MINES 
INFORMATION  CIRCULAR/1990 

¥9f 


The  Bureau  of  Mines  Ground-Fault 
Protection  Research  Program-A 
Summary 

By  M.  R.  Yenchek  and  A.  J.  Hudson 


YEARS      a 

***u  of  ^ 


U.S.  BUREAU  OF  MINES 
1910-1990 

THE  MINERALS  SOURCE 


Mission:  As  the  Nation's  principal  conservation 
agency,  the  Department  of  the  Interior  has  respon- 
sibility for  most  of  our  nationally-owned  public 
lands  and  natural  and  cultural  resources.  This 
includes  fostering  wise  use  of  our  land  and  water 
resources,  protecting  our  fish  and  wildlife,  pre- 
serving the  environmental  and  cultural  values  of 
our  national  parks  and  historical  places,  and  pro- 
viding for  the  enjoyment  of  life  through  outdoor 
recreation.  The  Department  assesses  our  energy 
and  mineral  resources  and  works  to  assure  that 
their  development  is  in  the  best  interests  of  all 
our  people.  The  Department  also  promotes  the 
goals  of  the  Take  Pride  in  America  campaign  by 
encouraging  stewardship  and  citizen  responsibil- 
ity forthe  public  landsand  promoting  citizen  par- 
ticipation in  their  care.  The  Department  also  has 
a  major  responsibility  for  American  Indian  reser- 
vation communities  and  for  people  who  live  in 
Island  Territories  under  U.S.  Administration. 


/information  Circular  9260 

The  Bureau  of  Mines  Ground-Fault 
Protection  Research  Program-A 
Summary 


By  M.  R.  Yenchek  and  A.  J.  Hudson 

ii 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 
Manuel  Lujan,  Jr.,  Secretary 

BUREAU  OF  MINES 
T  S  Ary,  Director 


ILLUSTRATIONS  -  Continued 


Page 


15.  Sensitive  CT  design 8 

16.  Electronic  relay  and  CT 9 

17.  Prototype  sensitive  GFR  enclosure 9 

18.  Block  diagram  for  prototype  ac  analog  relay 9 

19.  Schematic  diagram  for  prototype  ac  analog  relay 10 

20.  Block  diagram  for  prototype  digital  relay   10 

21.  Schematic  diagram  for  prototype  digital  relay 11 

22.  Bruceton  Mine  power  system 12 

23.  Power  feed  through  in  A-Butt,  Bruceton  Mine 12 

24.  Load  center  in  12-Room,  Bruceton  Mine 12 

25.  Sensitive  GFR  installation,  Bruceton  Mine 13 

26.  Totalizer  amplifier  circuits  for  digital  and  analog  GFR's 14 

27.  Differential  current  relaying  using  saturable  transformer 15 

28.  Saturable  transformer  current  sensor   16 

29.  Saturable  transformer  output  voltage  versus  dc  fault  current   16 

30.  Drop  in  sensor  output  versus  frequency   16 

31.  Saturable  transformer  prototype 17 

32.  Dc  relay  block  diagram   17 

33.  Dc  relay  timing  diagram    17 

34.  Schematic  diagram  of  dc  relay  prototype    18 

35.  Dc  relay  prototype 19 

36.  Typical  high-voltage  distribution  circuit 19 

37.  Simplified  diagram  of  ground-check  monitoring  system  used  in  mine  distribution  systems 20 

38.  System  block  diagram    21 

39.  Block  diagram  of  relay  circuit    21 

TABLE 

1.  Counter  readings  of  GFR  performance 13 


UNIT  OF  MEASURE  ABBREVIATIONS  USED  IN  THIS  REPORT 

A 

ampere 

kQ 

kilohm 

mV 

millivolt 

dB 

decibel 

kV 

kilovolt 

Q 

ohm 

op 

degree  Fahrenheit 

lb 

pound 

pet 

percent 

ft 

foot 

mA 

milliampere 

s 

second 

h 

hour 

pF 

microfarad 

V 

volt 

hp 

horsepower 

fiU 

microhenry 

VA 

volt-ampere 

Hz 

hertz 

MQ 

megohm 

W 

watt 

in 

inch 

ms 

millisecond 

Wb/A-m 

weber  per  ampere-meter 

kHz 

kilohertz 

MS 

microsecond 

yd3 

cubic  yard 

THE  BUREAU  OF  MINES  GROUND-FAULT  PROTECTION 
RESEARCH  PROGRAM-A  SUMMARY 


By  M.  R.  Yenchek1  and  A.  J.  Hudson2 


ABSTRACT 

The  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines  designed  and  constructed  sensitive  and  coordination-free  ground-fault  relays 
(GFR's)  for  use  on  mine  power  systems.  First,  a  list  of  GFR  attributes  for  mine  ac  utilization  applications 
was  compiled.  These  practical  guidelines  specified  design,  construction,  transient  immunity,  reliability,  and 
operating  criteria.  The  time-current  characteristics  of  the  ac  and  dc  units,  subsequently  fabricated,  were 
designed  to  be  below  the  human  electrocution  threshold.  The  significant  and  highly  variable  capacitance  of 
high-voltage  distribution  cables  was  found  to  preclude  the  sensing  of  ground  currents  in  the  milliampere 
range.  However,  the  coordination-free  system  developed  for  high-voltage  distribution  should  enhance  safety 
by  significantly  decreasing  response  time  to  ground  faults.  Implementation  of  the  sensitive  GFR  technology 
in  the  mining  industry  has  the  potential  to  eliminate  the  majority  of  injuries  and  nearly  all  the  deaths  resulting 
from  contact  with  energized  components. 


Electrical  engineer. 
2Electronics  technician. 
Pittsburgh  Research  Center,  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 


INTRODUCTION 


An  analysis  of  U.S.  Mine  Safety  and  Health  Ad- 
ministration (MSHA)  statistics  for  electrical  accidents 
at  underground  mines  between  1980  and  1985  showed  that 
electricians  and  mechanics  suffered  the  highest  incidence 
of  injury  and  death.  Specifically,  there  were  595  acci- 
dents associated  with  repair  and  maintenance  of  electri- 
cal apparatus,  29  of  which  were  fatal.  The  resultant 
cost  to  the  public  and  private  sectors  was  estimated  at 
$28  million  (i).3 

These  data  are  not  surprising  since  electricians  and 
mechanics  have  the  greatest  exposure  to  electrical  hazards. 
Space  on  mining  machines  is  extremely  limited,  with 
electrical  control  boxes  crowded  with  parts.  During 
troubleshooting  of  energized  circuits  there  is  danger  that, 
through  either  inattention  or  an  inadvertent  slip,  an  elbow 
or  arm  will  contact  an  energized  component.  Under  such 
working  conditions  electrical  safety  can  be  improved 
through  the  use  of  effective  protective  devices  for 
personnel. 

When  a  worker  contacts  an  energized  component, 
electric  current  flows  through  the  worker's  body  and 
returns  to  the  power  source,  either  through  the  earth  or 


via  a  ground  wire.  In  this  case  the  presence  of  a  ground 
wire  does  not  preclude  or  mitigate  hazardous  leakage 
current.  The  only  available  safeguard  in  such  occurrences 
is  a  ground-fault  detection  system. 

Most  ground-fault  protection  in  use  on  underground 
mine  power  systems  is  inadequate  from  a  shock  prevention 
standpoint.  Typical  response  levels  are  in  the  ampere 
range,  significantly  exceeding  the  electrocution  threshold. 
Increasing  device  sensitivity  results  in  undesirable  nuisance 
tripping  and  unscheduled  interruptions  in  production. 
However,  a  sensitive  ground-fault  relay  (GFR)  not  only 
can  identify  and  act  to  interrupt  the  small  deadly  ground 
currents  that  electrocute  people,  but  can  ignore  spurious 
signals  that  may  result  when  motors  are  started  or  circuit 
breakers  switched.  Recent  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines  research, 
aimed  at  virtually  eliminating  electrocutions  resulting  from 
direct  contact,  developed  sensitive  GFR's  for  ac  and 
dc  utilization  circuits.  In  addition,  coordination-free  relays 
were  devised  for  use  on  high-voltage  distribution.  Ap- 
plication of  this  technology  in  the  mining  industry  could 
eliminate  the  majority  of  injuries  and  nearly  all  deaths 
resulting  from  contact  with  energized  components. 


ELECTRIC-SHOCK  ANALYSIS 


Although  the  prevention  of  sustained  electric  shock  is 
an  ideal  goal  for  industry,  it  is  usually  impractical.  The 
detection  of  such  shocks  and  resultant  body  currents  as 
low  as  10  mA  would  likely  be  a  complete  impediment  to 
production.  Consequently,  a  more  realistic  goal  is  to 
design  protection  against  electrocution,  not  electric  shock. 

To  devise  effective  personnel  protection,  it  is  first 
necessary  to  understand  how  electrical  current  can  be 
lethal  to  humans.  Ventricular  fibrillation  is  by  far  the 
most  common  cause  of  death  from  accidental  electric 
shock.  This  condition  is  induced  when  sufficient  current 
flows  through  the  chest  and  disrupts  the  nervous  system 
impulses,  internal  to  the  heart,  that  synchronize  normal 
heartbeat.  The  heart  no  longer  acts  as  an  efficient  pump 
to  circulate  blood,  and  death  is  likely  to  occur  within 
minutes.  In  light  of  this,  safety  can  be  enhanced  if  the 
potential  current  flow  through  the  body  can  be  minimized. 

This  risk  of  electrocution  is  determined  to  a  large  ex- 
tent by  power  system  configuration.  To  maximize  safety, 
the  recommended  arrangement  for  ac  systems  features  a 
direct-  or  derived-neutral  point  on  the  source  trans- 
former secondary,  tied  to  earth  through  a  grounding 
resistor.     Equipment  frames  are  then  grounded  by  a 


grounding  conductor  connection  to  the  grounded  side  of 
the  resistor.  When  a  grounded  worker  accidentally 
contacts  an  energized  conductor,  the  body  current  is 
limited  in  magnitude  by  the  grounding  resistor  (fig.  1). 

Ventricular  fibrillation  is  a  function  not  only  of  current 
magnitude  (I),  but  also  of  frequency,  duration  of  expo- 
sure (t),  and  weight  of  the  victim.    The  threshold  was 


Italic  numbers  in  parentheses  refer  to  items  in  the  list  of  references 
preceding  the  appendix  at  the  end  of  this  report. 


Figure  1  .-Resistance-grounded  power  system  with  grounded 
worker. 


statistically  defined  by  Dalziel  and  Lee  (2)  as  that  current 
through  the  chest  that  will  cause  ventricular  fibrillation  in 
1  out  of  200  people.  For  110-lb  individuals,  the  60-Hz 
threshold  was  expressed  as 


I    =    116/  Ji, 


(1) 


where       I    =  current,  mA, 


and 


t    =  time,  s. 


This  relationship  is  shown  graphically  in  figure  2.  For 
brief  exposures,  relatively  more  current  is  needed  to  cause 
fibrillation.  For  longer  durations,  the  limit  decreases, 
down  to  50  mA,  below  which  fibrillation  is  unlikely  no 
matter  how  long  the  exposure. 

Given  these  constraints,  an  optimum  ohmic  value  can 
be  determined  for  the  neutral  grounding  resistor,  Rg, 
shown  in  figure  3.  This  value  should  be  high  enough  to 
protect  against  ventricular  fibrillation,  yet  sufficiently  low 
to  permit  reliable  ground-fault  detection  without  nuisance 
tripping.  Ideally,  the  resistor  should  limit  current  below 
the  electrocution  threshold  for  a  direct  contact  shock.  In 
such  instances,  the  body  resistance,  Rb,  may  be  as  low 


350 


4  5 

Figure  2.-60-Hz  fibrillation  threshold  for  110-lb  individuals. 


as  500  0  (3).  The  equation  defining  the  60-Hz  electro- 
cution threshold  may  be  rewritten  to  determine  the 
maximum  nonfibrillating  current  for  the  total  circuit 
clearing  time  as  follows: 


where 
and 


I    =    116/7(1!  +  t2)  , 
tj    =  operating  time  of  GFR,  s, 


(2) 


t2    =  operating  time  of  molded-case  circuit 
breaker,  s. 


A  relay  operating  time  of  100  ms  provides  sufficient  time 
delay  to  prevent  nuisance  tripping.  A  molded-case  circuit 
breaker  typically  opens  its  contacts  within  34  ms.  Given  a 
total  operating  time  of  134  ms,  the  maximum  current  that 
will  not  result  in  fibrillation  is  317  mA.  This  can  now  be 
used  to  define  the  ohmic  value  of  the  neutral  grounding 
resistor,  R  (fig.  3): 


Rg    =    (Vin/I)-Rb, 
where        V-      =  line-to-neutral  system  voltage,  V, 


(3) 


and 


I    =  maximum  nonfibrillating  current,  A, 
Rb    =  human  body  resistance,  ft. 


For  example,  on  a  480-V  system,  Rg  =  374  ft,  and  ground 
faults  are  limited  to  a  maximum  of  (480/75) /374  = 
740  mA. 

The  human  response  to  currents  of  varying  frequency  is 
shown  in  figure  4  (4).  It  is  an  unfortunate  fact  that 
humans  are  most  sensitive  to  60-Hz  signals.  The  reason 
for  this  is  that,  physiologically,  the  muscles  and  the  nerves 
of  the  body  are  most  easily  stimulated  by  changes  in 
current  magnitude.  The  ac  sine  wave  is  characterized  by 
constantly  changing  magnitude,  as  opposed  to  pure  dc 
where  the  only  change  occurs  the  instant  the  circuit  is 
made  or  broken.  Consequently,  about  3.5  times  more  dc 
than  ac  is  required  to  induce  ventricular  fibrillation  (5). 
Conversely,  the  muscles  and  nerves  do  have  a  finite 
reaction  time,  such  that  with  increasing  frequency,  the 


V|n© 


Rb 


Figure  3.-Electrical  accident  equivalent  circuit 


stimulation  of  one  alternation  does  not  have  time  to  elicit 
a  response  before  it  is  annulled  by  the  succeeding 
alternation. 

For  dc  power  systems,  a  three-phase  bridge  rectifier 
arrangement  is  preferred  (fig.  5).  Shock  hazards  are 
reduced,  not  only  by  the  presence  of  the  grounding  re- 
sistor, but  also  because  line-to-ground  voltage  is  one-half 
the  line-to-line  dc  voltage.  When  a  grounded  worker 
inadvertently  contacts  an  energized  positive  or  negative 
conductor,  the  resultant  current  through  the  individual  is 
half-wave  rectified  as  shown  in  figure  6.  Research  con- 
ducted recently  by  Bernstein  (<5)  has  established  that  the 


presence  of  an  18-pct  ripple  in  a  half-wave-rectified  wave 
tends  to  reduce  the  threshold  such  that  the  following 
relationship  applies  (fig.  7): 


i  =  348/yr, 

where        I    =  current,  mA, 


(4) 


and 


t    =  time,  s. 


These  electrocution  threshold  characteristics  are  an  im- 
portant consideration  for  the  design  of  sensitive  GFR's. 


600 


10                      100  1,000            10,000 

FREQUENCY,  Hz 

Figure    4.-Fibrillation    threshold    at  currents    of    varying 
frequency. 


m 


ooo_ 


til 


Ripple  frequency  =  180  Hz 


TIME 


Figure  6.-Half-wave-rectified  ground-fault  current 


900 


Figure  5.-Three-phase  resistance-grounded  system  feeding 
full-wave  rectifier. 


"012345 
Figure  7.-Half-wave-rectified  dc  ventricular  fibrillation  threshold. 


ALTERNATING  CURRENT  UTILIZATION 


Initial  Bureau  research  concentrated  on  providing  the 
ac  utilization  portion  of  a  mine  power  system  with  sensitive 
ground-fault  protection.  The  utilization  system  includes 
portable  power  cables,  power  centers,  rectifiers,  motors, 
and  the  associated  protective  devices.  It  is  the  most 
troublesome  part  of  the  power  system  in  terms  of  safety 
and  reliability  because  of  its  temporary  nature.  As  mining 
progresses,  the  utilization  system  is  stretched  to  its  limit 
and  repositioned,  necessitating  frequent  handling  of  trailing 
cables  and  equipment  repairs,  a  major  source  of  electro- 
cutions underground  (1).  The  presence  of  large  motor 
loads  strains  the  dependability  of  protection  devices  by 
introducing  large  voltage  and  current  transients.  Con- 
sequently, the  application  of  effective  personnel  protection 
for  utilization  circuits  would  have  a  major  impact  on 
underground  safety. 

Zero-sequence  or  balanced-flux  relaying  (fig.  8)  is 
the  most  reliable  and  most  common  method  employed  for 
ground-fault  relaying  (7).  As  shown  in  figure  8,  the  phase 
conductors  pass  through  the  toroidal  current  transformer 
(CT)  window.  The  sum  of  the  three  phase  currents  is  the 
CT  primary  current  and  is  proportional  to  the  zero- 
sequence  current  (8).  An  unfaulted  balanced  system 
features  little  or  no  zero-sequence  current,  and  the  CT 
secondary  current  is  approximately  zero.  However,  when 
a  ground  fault  occurs,  the  resultant  secondary  current  is 
used  to  trip  the  relay.  Zero-sequence  relaying  is 
unaffected  by  phase  voltage  fluctuations,  and  since  only 
ground  leakage  is  monitored,  the  relay  can  be  made  very 
sensitive.  Consequently,  it  is  the  only  practical  technique 
capable  of  responding  to  low-level  hazardous  ground 
currents  and  the  method  of  choice  for  the  Bureau's 
sensitive  GFR  research  program. 

BACKGROUND  RESEARCH 

As  a  first  step  in  the  design  process,  a  list  of  GFR 
attributes  for  ac  mining  applications  was  compiled.  Next, 
test  procedures  were  devised  to  ensure  device  compliance 


Phase 
A  — 


B- 
C- 


ZN)  sequence 
relay 


Ground  wire 


Figure  8.-Zero-sequence  relaying. 


with  the  desired  operating  characteristics.  These  practical 
guidelines  (9),  addressing  GFR  design  and  construction, 
transient  immunity,  reliability,  and  time-current  char- 
acteristics, are  summarized  below. 

Proper  Design  and  Construction 

A  relay  system  of  suitable  design  and  construction  does 
not  pose  a  personnel  hazard,  reduces  the  amount  of  down- 
time caused  by  GFR  failures,  and  facilitates  acceptance  of 
the  GFR  as  a  useful  safety  device.  Electronic  instruments 
designed  and  constructed  for  military  use  must  comply 
with  Military  Standard  454  (10).  The  key  portions  of  that 
standard,  which  can  be  applied  to  GFR's  in  underground 
mining,  are  related  to  safety  and  accessibility:  The  design 
shall  incorporate  methods  to  protect  personnel  from 
accidental  contact  with  voltages  greater  than  30  V  root- 
mean-square  (RMS)  or  dc  during  normal  operation.  All 
external  surfaces  shall  be  at  ground  potential  during  nor- 
mal operation.  All  terminals  shall  be  corrosion  resistant. 
Sharp  external  projections  shall  be  avoided.  Suitable  ac- 
cess shall  be  provided  for  adjustments,  testing,  and  routine 
maintenance.  No  unsoldering  shall  be  necessary  to  remove 
the  front  cover  for  troubleshooting. 

Mine  Worthiness 

Underground,  GFR's  are  located  inside  metal-clad  load 
centers,  so  both  the  relay  and  CT  must  have  metal  mount- 
ing lugs.  Terminal  strips  should  be  sized  for  No.  12  AWG 
wire.  In  addition,  the  relay  case  should  be  moisture  and 
dust  resistant. 

Size  Limitations 

Space  is  typically  limited  inside  mine  power  equipment 
compartments.  Since  several  GFR's  may  be  used  in  a  sin- 
gle power  center  to  protect  all  outgoing  circuits,  they  must 
not  be  much  larger  than  present  GFR's.  Thus,  the  relay 
components  should  be  mounted  in  a  compact  enclosure 
not  exceeding  3  by  6  by  6  in.  To  minimize  flux  leakage, 
the  CT  window  should  only  be  large  enough  to  accommo- 
date the  encircled  power  conductors.  The  outside  dia- 
meter of  a  4/0  single-conductor  cable  is  0.807  in  (11). 
Three  such  cables  fit  snugly  through  a  1.750-in-diameter 
window.  For  ease  of  installation  of  cables  with  terminals, 
the  window  diameter  should  be  increased  to  2.100  in. 
Present  ground-fault  CT's  in  use  underground  have  outside 
diameters  smaller  than  4  in.  Since  they  are  placed 
between  the  molded-case  circuit  breaker  and  the  load- 
center  coupler,  they  are  no  more  than  3  in  wide. 

Electrocution  Prevention 

The  primary  reason  for  employing  sensitive  GFR's  in 
mining  is  to  prevent  accidental  electrocutions.  For  60-Hz 
circuits,  the  desired  region  for  GFR  operation  is  below 


and  to  the  left  of  the  threshold  shown  in  figure  2.  To 
define  GFR  time-current  characteristics,  a  variable  60-Hz 
voltage  source  in  series  with  a  50-fl,  225-W  fixed  resistance 
is  used  to  inject  current  through  the  CT  primary  as  shown 
in  figure  9.  A  double-pole,  single-throw  switch  initiates  the 
test  and  triggers  the  storage  oscilloscope,  which  monitors 
relay  contact  activity.  Test  currents  are  varied  from  0  to 
1,000  mA. 

Power  Harmonics 


GFR  CT,  should  not  falsely  activate  the  relay.  In  addition, 
they  should  not  damage  the  relay  control  circuitry. 

An  impulse  generator,  constructed  in  accordance  with 
Underwriters  Laboratories  (UL)  Standard  943  (13),  is  em- 
ployed to  simulate  transient  overvoltages  as  they  would 
occur  on  residential  and  industrial  power  systems.  The 
test  circuit  consists  of  a  relay  switch  and  resonant  circuit, 
shown  schematically  in  figures  11  and  12.  The  generated 
waveform  exhibits  the  following  characteristics  under  no 
load: 


The  filtering  for  GFR's  must  be  designed  so  as  to  pre- 
clude false  tripping  by  any  harmonics  superimposed  on 
the  power  conductors.  However,  attenuation  of  these 
higher  frequencies  must  not  be  so  severe  that  hazardous 
currents  above  the  electrocution  threshold  (fig.  4)  are 
permitted.  In  testing  GFR  frequency  response  (fig.  10),  an 
audio  oscillator  and  power  amplifier  provide  high- 
frequency  currents  from  60  Hz  to  10  kHz.  For  each 
frequency,  the  voltage  is  slowly  increased  until  the  GFR 
activates. 

Voltage  Surge  Immunity 

Mine  power  systems  frequently  experience  voltage 
surges  when  circuit  breakers  and  switches  are  opened  or 
closed.  Although  the  duration  of  these  transients  is  less 
than  50  ms,  past  research  indicates  their  magnitude  can 
reach  five  times  the  utilization  voltage  (12).  These  surges, 
when  present  on  the  power  conductors  encircled  by  the 


Resistor 
— WV 


L 


— -To  oscilloscope 
v. trigger 

A 


(£)  Voltage 
V- /  source 


..Current  probe 
to  oscilloscope 
channel  2 


JT 

T_ 


To  channel  1 


Relay 
Figure  9.-Test  setup  to  determine  60-Hz  tripping  characteristics. 


1.  Initial  rise  time  of  0.5  ps  between  10  and  90  pet  of 
peak  amplitude; 

2.  Period  of  following  oscillatory  wave,  10  /is;  and 

3.  Amplitude  of  each  successive  peak,  60  pet  of  the 
preceding  peak. 

The  amplitude  of  the  first  peak  is  fully  adjustable  from 
0  to  9,000  V.  In  the  first  part  of  the  test,  10  successive  5- 
kV  surges  are  imposed  on  the  power  conductors  encircled 
by  the  CT  while  the  relay  contacts  are  observed.  Next,  ten 
1-kV  impulses  are  applied  in  parallel  with  the  120-V  ac 
control  voltage,  and  at  random  with  respect  to  its  phase. 
Afterward,  the  relay  is  operated  at  60  Hz  to  detect 
possible  damage  to  circuitry. 


Line  output 


Relay 
control 


rrn 

Cathode-ray  oscilloscope 
trigger  output 


Neutral  ground 


Figure  11. -Impulse  generator  circuit 


CT 


Frequency 
counter 


Frequency 
generator 


\®^n=z7^. 


<£> 


Ammeter 
Figure  1 0.-Frequency  response  test  circuit 


Light 


I20V 
60  Hz 


II,  50  V  A 


lOkil,  IW  Dl 


-w* ►Hr — t 


32  MF,  250  V 


11*    >' 


CR|  relay 

Cathode-ray 
oscilloscope 
gate  input 
R3 
I  kfl,  '/feW 


I  M.a,  72W 


rm 


Figure  12.-Relay  control  circuit  for  impulse  generator. 


Common-Mode  Transients 


Safe  Failure  Modes 


Sensitive  GFR's  must  be  unaffected  by  large  transient 
currents  occurring  simultaneously  on  all  phases  of  an  ac 
utilization  circuit.  Such  currents  may  briefly  exceed  six 
times  full-load  motor  rating  during  starting  or  under  heavy 
intermittent  load.  The  maximum  short-circuit  settings 
listed  in  30  CFR  75.601  (14)  effectively  limit  balanced 
three-phase  loading  to  2,500  A.  Nevertheless,  balanced 
currents  up  to  2,500  A  should  be  tolerated  for  up  to  5  s 
without  activation  of  the  GFR.  A  three-phase  high-power 
source  is  used  to  variably  supply  balanced  three-phase 
currents  through  a  shorted  trailing  cable  encircled  by  the 
GFR  CT.  The  voltage  is  increased  until  the  relay  activates 
or  the  2,500-A  ceiling  is  reached.  Tripping  thresholds  are 
confirmed  through  repeated  tests. 

Current  Withstand 

The  molded-case  circuit  breakers  used  on  low-voltage 
ac  mine  power  circuits  typically  have  an  interrupting  rating 
of  30,000  A.  Currents  of  this  magnitude  are  quite  possible 
during  three-phase  faults.  Since  the  GFR  CT  is  a  part  of 
the  power  system,  it  too  should  withstand  up  to  30,000  A 
for  the  time  it  takes  the  breaker  to  clear  (a  few  hertz). 
The  withstand  test  is  conducted  with  a  high-current  circuit 
breaker  tester  as  shown  in  figure  13.  The  tester  is 
equipped  with  an  initiate  switch  that  can  be  jogged  to 
reasonably  control  the  test  duration.  Current  magnitudes 
are  recorded  on  a  storage  oscilloscope  connected  across  a 
400-A,  100-mV  shunt.  The  CT  secondary  is  shorted  to 
preclude  high  secondary  voltages.  The  CT  is  subjected  to 
30,000  A  for  approximately  4  Hz.  The  60-Hz  current  ratio 
and  winding  resistance  are  measured  before  and  after  the 
withstand  test  to  detect  any  degradation  of  the  CT. 

Quality  Assurance 

For  dependability  underground,  all  devices  from  the 
same  manufacturer  should  be  consistent  in  electrical  and 
mechanical  performance  over  a  reasonable  service  life.  In 
addition,  each  GFR  should  be  equipped  with  a  means  to 
test  its  operation. 


In  the  event  of  failure  of  the  GFR's  internal  circuitry, 
it  is  vital  that  the  unit  activate  its  associated  circuit  breaker 
to  remove  power  and  prevent  a  false  sense  of  security. 
Two  common  failure  modes  are  the  loss  of  120-V  control 
power  to  the  GFR  and  an  opening  of  the  CT  winding. 

PROTOTYPE  DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

Sensitive  GFR's  are  available  commercially  for  use  in 
British  mines  and  in  the  U.S.  irrigation  industry.  Three 
such  brands  were  evaluated  in-house  for  potential  appli- 
cability to  U.S.  mining  using  the  above  criteria.  None  was 
found  suitable  without  design  modifications  (15).  How- 
ever, these  tests  served  as  the  basis  for  the  development  of 
a  mine-worthy  sensitive  ground-fault  protection  system 
consisting  of  a  CT  and  an  electronic  relay. 

Current  Transformer 

The  CT  for  a  sensitive  ground-fault  system  has  the  duty 
of  precisely  sensing  the  existence  of  small  ground-fault 
currents  on  three-phase  line  conductors  feeding  mine  ma- 
chinery. It  must  be  able  to  distinguish  these  faults  within 
the  complex  electromagnetic  environment  that  exists  in 
mine  power  equipment.  Specifically,  the  CT  must  not  send 
erroneous  signals  to  the  relay  circuitry  when  in  the  pres- 
ence of  external  magnetic  fields  and  when  observing  high 
common-mode  line  currents.  This  precise  device  must  also 
be  able  to  physically,  electrically,  and  magnetically  with- 
stand the  mine  environment. 

The  output  of  the  CT  secondary  was  anticipated  to 
be  in  the  millivolt  range  when  sensed  currents  were  in 
milliamperes.  The  following  expression  is  used  to  pre- 
dict open-circuit  output  voltage  for  a  given  ground-fault 
current  (16): 


E    = 


=    hNuflplnCR^Rj) 


(5) 


where      E    =  RMS  output  voltage  of  secondary  volt- 
age, V, 

h    =  toroid  core  width,  m, 


To  storage 
oscilloscope 


Mine  duty 
circuit  breaker 


Secondary 
shorted 


Figure  1 3.-Current  withstand  test  circuit 


and 


N  =  number  of  turns  on  secondary  winding, 

u  =  core  permeability,  Wb/A-m-turns, 

f  =  frequency,  Hz, 

Ip  =  RMS  value  of  ground-fault  current,  A, 

RQ  =  outer  toroidal  radius,  m, 

Rj  =  inner  toroidal  radius,  m. 


Equation  5  is  valuable  in  designing  a  current  sensor  for  a 
sensitive  ground-fault  protection  system.  It  shows  that  CT 


output  voltage  may  be  affected  by  various  electrical  and 
mechanical  quantities. 

In  addition,  consideration  must  also  be  given  the  CT 
burden,  or  external  load  impedance  on  its  secondary.  The 
burden  impedance  cannot  be  so  low  as  to  reduce  the  sec- 
ondary voltage  to  an  unusable  value.  Voltage  input  to  the 
relay  must  be  sufficiently  high  so  that  amplification  and 
noise  concerns  are  minimal.  Since  core  dimensions  are 
limited  by  available  space,  voltage  output  can  be  maxi- 
mized by  using  a  high-permeability  core  and  a  large 
number  of  secondary  turns  (see  equation  5).  Also,  a  high- 
permeability  core  minimizes  flux  leakage  inherent  with 
window-type  CT's. 

Cores  are  usually  constructed  of  thin  laminations  to 
reduce  eddy  current  losses.  For  the  GFR  toroid,  the  core 
was  made  by  continuously  winding  a  0.006-  by  0.75-in  tape 
of  magnetic  material  starting  with  a  2.5-in  ID.  After 
winding  to  an  outer  diameter  of  3.5  in,  the  core  was 
annealed  to  remove  strains  and  impurities  from  the  tape. 

An  80  pet  nickel-iron  alloy  core  was  able  to  meet  the 
accuracy  requirements  of  sensitive  ground-fault  relaying. 
However,  one  problem  with  nickel-iron  cores  is  that  then- 
excellent  magnetic  properties  can  be  degraded  by  winding 
stresses  and  pressures.  A  nonmetallic  or  phenolic  box 
(fig.  14)  around  the  core  provided  protection  against 
mechanical  damage  as  well  as  insulation  for  the  secondary 
winding.  The  effects  of  vibration  and  shock  are  mitigated 
by  cushioning  the  core  in  a  silicon  casing. 

The  CT  must  be  able  to  operate  within  significant  mag- 
netic fields  generated  by  nearby  power  transformers  or 
the  monitored  power  conductors  themselves.  To  minimize 
any  volts-per-turn  imbalance  requires  a  regressive  winding 
technique  (fig.  15)  (17).  One-half  of  the  250  secondary 
turns  of  No.  22  AWG  magnet  wire  were  wound  around  the 
core  in  one  direction.  The  second  half  were  wound 
around  the  core  in  the  opposite  direction  across  the  first 
half  so  that  each  second-half  turn  falls  between  a  pair  of 
first-half  turns  within  the  window  crossing  on  the  CT  sides. 
A  separate  single  turn  was  wound  on  the  core  for  primary 
injection  testing. 

As  stated  previously,  power  conductor  common-mode 
currents  can  produce  local  core  saturation,  noncancelling 
voltages  across  the  CT  secondary,  and  nuisance  tripping  of 
the  relay.  It  was  found  (18)  that  a  2.1-in-ID,  0.1-in-thick, 
concentric,  low-permeability  iron  buffer  adjacent  to  the 
power  conductors  tended  to  distribute  local  flux  saturation 
effects. 

The  core,  windings,  and  buffer  were  potted  in  epoxy 
and  enclosed  in  a  metallic  housing  that  has  convenient 
holes  for  mounting  the  assembly  inside  mine  power  equip- 
ment. The  output  cable  contains  the  four  conductors  for 
the  CT  secondary  and  the  test  winding. 

Electronic  Relay 

Solid-state  sensitive  GFR's  were  designed  to  operate 
with  the  CT  (figs.  16-17).  Two  versions  were  conceptu- 
alized, one  based  upon  analog  techniques,  the  other  using 


Nonmetallic 
insert 


Nonmetallic 
case 

Insert 
cushioning 


Tape- 
wound 
core 


Figure  14.- Nonmetallic  core  box  construction. 


Toroid  core,   2.5-in-ID,   3.5-in-OD,  0.75-in-high, 

tape-wound  with  0.006-in  nickel- iron 
alloy,  cased  and  phenolic  boxed. 


250-turn,  regressively 
wound  CT secondary 


Transformer 
secondary  leads 


Test  winding  leads 


-2.l-in-ID  low-permeability  steel  pipe 
with  single  wrap  of  0.00l-in  nickel- 
iron  alloy  on  outer  surface. 

Figure  1 5.-Sensitive  CT  design. 


digital  (19).  Both  incorporate  the  same  control  power 
supply  and  electromechanical  relay  trip  circuitry  mounted 
on  interchangeable  cards. 

Analog  Version 

A  block  diagram  of  the  analog  relay  is  shown  in  fig- 
ure 18  and  a  schematic  is  shown  in  figure  19.  Since  the 
sum  of  the  three  line  currents  that  form  the  primary  cur- 
rent in  the  CT  is  nearly  zero  under  normal  operating  con- 
ditions, normal  phase  currents  should  not  trip  the  relay. 
However,  when  a  ground  fault  occurs,  a  voltage  will  be 
induced  across  the  secondary  in  proportion  to  the  fault 
magnitude.  The  CT  (T2)  secondary  was  connected  across 
a  burden  resistor  (Rj)  and  an  inverting  operational  ampli- 
fier QA:  (fig.  19).  Diodes  D1  and  D2  were  included  to 
limit  short-duration  transients  at  the  GFR  input. 

A  first-order,  low-pass  filter  was  utilized  to  match  the 
relay  frequency  response  to  that  of  humans  (fig.  4).  This 
filter  consisted  of  operational  amplifier  QA2,  resistors,  R5 


♦ 


0  12  3 

i 1 L_J 


Figure  16.- Electronic  relay  and  CT. 


h2-32"H 

0.596"  typical 
0.86" typical  |— \ 

-E5B 


0.2l9-in-diam 

mounting  holes 

(4) 


Figure  17.-Prototype  sensitive  GFR  enclosure. 


R6,  R7,  and  capacitor  Q.  It  had  a  3-dB  cutoff  frequency 
of  2  kHz  and  a  gain  of  2.  Full-wave  rectification  was 
accomplished  by  the  combination  of  the  two  operational 
amplifiers  QA3  and  QA4.  Diode  Ds,  resistor  R14,  and 
capacitor  C5  provided  a  smoothed  dc  output  signal 
comparable  to  the  peak  value  of  the  input  sinusoidal 
voltage  at  QA3.  The  smoothed  signal  was  then  applied  to 
the  noninverting  input  of  the  comparator  QAj.  This  stage 
was  designed  such  that  its  output  state  changes  abruptly 
from  zero  to  a  high  voltage  when  the  input  reaches  an 
adjustable  pickup  reference  voltage. 


QAi 

Amplifier 


QA2 
Filter 


QA3,  QA4 
Full- wave 
rectifier 


R-C 
Integrator 


QA5 
Level 
detector 


R-C,  Q, 
Definite- 
time  delay 


Open-CT 
trip  signal 


Qz 
Trigger 


-ojp- 

Reset 


Target 


Trip 
relay 


:N.C 
:N.O. 


Figure  18.- Block  diagram  for  prototype  ac  analog  relay. 


During  normal  operation,  the  current  from  the  24-V 
supply  flows  through  the  coil  of  the  normally  closed  elec- 
tromechanical relay  Kls  resistor  R^,  and  the  green  light- 
emitting  diode  (LED)  D14,  because  the  thyristor,  Q2,  is  off. 
When  a  ground  fault  occurs  above  the  pickup  setting,  the 
voltage  signal  from  the  comparator  starts  to  charge  capaci- 
tor C6  through  the  adjustable  resistance  R^  and  fixed  re- 
sistor R^.  This  continues  until  the  unijunction  transistor 
(UJT)  turns  on  and  discharges  C6.  The  GFR  operating 
time  is  determined  by  the  time  it  takes  to  turn  on  the  UJT. 
To  activate  the  GFR,  a  trip  signal  greater  than  the  trip 
level  setting  must  still  be  present  after  the  desired  delay 
has  occurred.  The  output  of  the  UJT  initializes  the  gate 
of  the  thyristor,  Q2.  Once  the  thyristor  is  fired,  it  latches 
on.  This  deenergizes  the  electromechanical  relay  and 
turns  on  the  red  LED  D13. 

Several  fail-safe  characteristics  were  incorporated  into 
the  relay  design.  For  example,  a  loss  or  significant  drop  of 
control  power  deenergizes  the  electromechanical  relay  coil. 
In  addition,  if  the  secondary  winding  of  the  CT  disconnects 
from  the  analog  circuitry,  the  relay  will  initiate  a  tripping 
signal. 

An  internal  power  supply  provides  regulated  ±15-V 
power  for  the  relay's  active  integrated  circuits,  as  well  as 
an  unregulated  supply  of  approximately  +  24  V  for  the  re- 
lay K,  and  its  associated  network.  The  120-V  primary  of 
the  power  supply  transformer  is  fuse  protected  and  in- 
cludes transient  suppression. 

A  test  circuit,  consisting  of  a  test  winding  on  the  CT  T2, 
momentary  switch  S2,  and  a  current-limiting  resistor  R33 
is  provided  on  the  relay.  When  the  switch  is  closed,  a  test 
current  greater  than  the  relay  pickup  setting  is  primary 
injected  into  the  CT,  and  the  relay  activates. 

Digital  Version 

A  block  diagram  of  the  digital  prototype  is  shown  in 
figure  20  and  a  schematic  in  figure  21.  As  with  the  analog 
version,  the  CT  T2  is  connected  across  a  1,000-Q  bur- 
den R2.  The  ac  output  voltage  of  the  CT  is  amplified 
by  the  inverting  operational  amplifier  QA1B.    The  output 


10 


I  k,Q 


+  15  V 


R20 
10  Mil 


R|5 


R22 

22kft     IOkil: 
-W\l — —  +  I5V' 


K-@TP3     Time   ± 
R23      delay    ■ 
500  kU  adjustment 


-@TP, 


/  \ 

D|3       D|4 
(Red)  (Green) 


X  C10 

0.1  uF    ■= 
35  V 
"~ ""-15  V 


MC79LI5CP 


Figure  19.-Schematic  diagram  for  prototype  ac  analog  relay. 


OAia 
0pen-CT 
detector 


QAIB 

Zero- sequence 

amplifier 


QA2A 
Filter 


QA2B 
Level  detector 


Time    delay 
detector 


Qi 

Trigger 


4  i 


-0J0- 

Reset 


N.O. 


Target      Trip 
relay 

Figure  20.-Block  diagram  for  prototype  digital  relay. 

of  QA1B  is  then  fed  into  a  first-order,  low-pass  filter  with 
a  3-dB  cutoff  of  1.6  kHz.  The  purpose  of  this  filter  is  to 
attenuate  high-frequency  signals  such  that  false  tripping 
due  to  harmonic  currents  or  high-frequency,  long-duration 
transients  may  be  avoided.  This  attenuation  should  not  be 
too  steep,  because  high-frequency  currents  can  cause  elec- 
trical fatalities. 


The  ac  output  of  the  filter  network  is  fed  to  the  com- 
parator QA2B  through  a  dc-blocking  network  consisting  of 
Q,  R12,  and  C4.  Consequently,  an  ac-filtered  trip  signal 
will  be  delivered  to  the  negative  input  terminal  of  this  dif- 
ferential amplifier.  The  voltage  divider  consisting  of  R13 
and  R14  provides  a  positive  reference  voltage  to  the  posi- 
tive input  terminal  of  the  differential  amplifier.  When  the 
sinusoidal  trip  signal  at  the  negative  amplifier  input  is  less 
than  the  trip  level  setting  at  the  positive  input  terminal, 
the  output  of  the  comparator  is  at  its  positive  saturation 
value  of  about  + 13  V  dc.  At  any  instant  when  the  trip 
signal  is  greater  than  the  trip  level  setting,  the  comparator 
output  goes  to  its  negative  saturation  value  of  -13  V  dc. 
During  this  time,  diode  CR5  clamps  the  inputs  to  the 
CD4528  retriggerable  one-shot  and  the  555  timer  to  ap- 
proximately 0  V. 

The  retriggerable  one-shot  remains  in  its  stable  state 
of  unity  logic  output  as  long  as  a  l-to-0  transition  does  not 
occur  at  its  input.  However,  when  such  a  transition  does 
occur  (corresponding  to  a  trip  signal),  the  retriggerable 
one-shot  goes  to  its  unstable  state  of  zero  logic  output  for 
as  long  as  the  trip  signal  is  present.  Should  the  input 
switch  back  to  a  high  state  before  the  GFR  activates,  the 
one-shot  will  return  to  its  stable  state  and  GFR  operation 
will  be  blocked. 


11 


Test  © 

winding 


Figure  21  .-Schematic  diagram  for  prototype  digital  relay. 


The  GFR  time  delay  circuitry  includes  the  555  timer, 
the  IQu  NOR  gate,  and  the  CD4528  retriggerable  one- 
shot.  As  long  as  no  l-to-0  transitions  occur  at  the  timer 
input,  its  output  remains  in  a  stable  zero  state.  When  a 
l-to-0  transition  does  occur  (corresponding  to  a  trip  ini- 
tiation), the  555  timer  output  becomes  unstable  (1)  for 
100  ms,  the  GFR  intentional  delay  time.  The  IC^  NOR 
gate  isolates  the  timer  output  from  the  CD4528  one-shot 
input. 

The  relay  firing  circuitry  includes  the  IC5A  NOR  gate, 
the  2N1595  thyristor,  Qu  the  electromechanical  relay  K1} 
and  associated  components.  The  relay  tripping  signal,  a 
high  NOR  output,  is  developed  only  if  the  outputs  of  both 
CD4528  one-shots  are  zero.  This  occurs  only  if  the  relay 
delay  time  has  expired  and  the  trip  signal  exceeds  the  trip 
level  setting.  The  remainder  of  the  firing  circuit  is  similar 
to  the  analog  version,  as  are  the  power  supply  and  test 
circuit.  The  digital  version  also  has  open-CT  and  loss-of- 
control-power  safety  features. 

Four  analog  and  four  digital  prototypes  were  con- 
structed under  phase  1  of  Bureau  contract  J0134025  (19). 
Their  ability  to  detect  low-level  faults  was  confirmed  in  the 


laboratory.  What  remained  to  be  demonstrated  was  satis- 
factory operation  in  an  underground  mining  environment. 

FIELD  AND  LABORATORY  EVALUATIONS 

To  ensure  an  unbiased  evaluation,  the  Bureau  assumed 
the  responsibility  of  testing  the  units  at  a  cooperative 
commercial  mine.  This  demonstration  would  have  a  two- 
fold purpose: 

1.  To  expose  the  prototype  GFR's  to  the  transients 
and  anomalies  associated  with  a  mine  power  system  to 
gauge  circuit  durability. 

2.  To  measure  the  number  of  tripping  events  and  de- 
termine if  false  or  nuisance  tripping  is  of  concern  when 
GFR's  are  actually  providing  ground-fault  protection. 

Bruceton  Mine 

Initially,  the  economically  depressed  coal  industry 
was  unresponsive  to  published  solicitations  for  coopera- 
tors.   Consequently,  the  devices  were  first  installed  at  the 


12 


Bureau's  Bruceton  Mine  near  Pittsburgh,  PA,  to  establish 
some  performance  history. 

Bruceton  Mine  Power  System 

Electrical  power  at  a  potential  of  7,200  V  is  delivered  to 
the  mine  substation  on  the  surface,  as  shown  in  fig- 
ure 22.  The  three-phase,  480-V  utilization  voltage  for  the 
mine  is  derived  via  a  delta-wye  configuration.  Ground- 
fault  currents  are  limited  to  15  A  by  an  18.5-0  resistor 
connected  between  the  secondary  neutral  point  and  the 
earth  grounding  bed.  From  the  substation,  power  feeds 
into  the  surface  control  building  (building  07)  where  it 
divides  to  supply  both  the  Experimental  Mine  and  the 
Safety  Research  Coal  Mine  (SRCM).  Overcurrent,  short- 
circuit,  undervoltage,  and  grounded-phase  protection  are 
provided  at  the  beginning  of  these  branch  circuits,  located 
within  a  wall  panel  in  building  07.  The  sole  ground-fault 
protective  device  (GFR  2)  for  the  Experimental  Mine  is  in 
this  panel.  From  building  07,  power  for  the  SRCM  is 
transmitted  underground  through  a  borehole.  A  480-V, 
three-phase  service  disconnect  is  situated  underground  at 
the  bottom  of  this  borehole.  From  this  disconnect,  power 
is  fed  into  A-Butt,  where  three-phase  auxiliary  and  single- 
phase  lighting  power  is  tapped  (fig.  23).  The  auxiliary 
circuits,  infrequently  used  to  maneuver  equipment  in  and 
out  of  the  mine,  are  equipped  with  grounded-phase  pro- 
tection (GFR's  7  and  8).  In  12-Room,  the  480-V  power 
connects  to  a  load  center  (fig.  24)  for  the  portable  mining 
equipment.  Grounded-phase  protection  is  incorporated  on 
each  of  the  four  outgoing  circuits. 

In  summary,  as  shown  in  figure  22,  ground-fault 
protection  is  provided  at  eight  locations  within  the 
Bruceton  Mine  power  system.     Toroidal  transformers 


7,200/480  V 


r~ 


_Buildlna  _07 


Surface 
substation 


©)        (D) 


Safety  Research  Coal  Mine 

-Load  center 
3-phase,  480-V 


12-Room 


A-Butt 


!®;)@WW) ! 

[-1-1-1 — I_J 


-L 


I 

Roof 
Loader  bolter 


Cutter 


Auxiliary 
3-phase  power 


Experimental 
Mine 


Auxiliary 
fan 


encircling  the  power  conductors  are  connected  to  small 
socket-type  relays  with  sensitivities  of  6  A. 

Ground-Fault  Relay  Installation 

To  preclude  extensive  tripping  of  the  power,  it  was  in- 
tended that  the  prototype  sensitive  GFR's  operate  event 
counters  in  lieu  of  activating  the  circuit  breakers  each  time 
leakage  current  exceeded  50  mA.  The  existing  ground- 
fault  protection  and  grounding  resistor  remained  in  service. 
Simply  connecting  the  unit's  control  power  to  the  mine 
power  system  and  exposing  it  to  anomalies  and  transients 
constitutes  one  test  of  mine  worthiness. 

Eight  prototype  GFR's  were  available  for  the  demon- 
stration. Since  their  durability  was  unknown  at  the  outset, 
it  was  decided  to  utilize  only  six,  keeping  two  as  spares. 
Consequently,  no  sensitive  GFR's  were  installed  on  the 
rarely  utilized  auxiliary  circuits  in  A-Butt.  Two  analog  and 
two  digital  versions  were  installed  underground  in  the  load 
center;  two  digital  units  were  placed  in  building  07. 


Figure  23.-Power  feedthrough  in  A-Butt,  Bruceton  Mine. 


Figure  22. -Bruceton  Mine  power  system.    Circled  numbers 
indicate  GFR's. 


Figure  24.-Load  center  in  12-Room,  Bruceton  Mine. 


13 


All  prototype  GFR's  installed  underground  were  ad- 
justed for  a  definite  time  delay  of  100  ms,  the  recom- 
mended setting  for  shock  protection.  To  incorporate 
a  degree  of  coordination,  the  upstream  devices  in  build- 
ing 07  were  fixed  with  a  delay  of  250  ms. 

As  shown  in  figure  25,  the  CT's  of  the  sensitive  GFR's 
were  installed  around  the  three  480-V  phase  conductors. 
The  single-phase  control  power  for  the  electronic  relays 
was  obtained  using  480/120-V  control  transformers.  The 
electromechanical  counters  were  rated  at  120  V  and  6  W. 

Upon  installation,  the  test  circuit  of  each  GFR  was  ex- 
ercised to  verify  operation.  At  each  location  (building  07 
or  the  12-Room  load  center)  all  relays  tripped  when  the 
test  button  of  any  one  was  activated.  The  following  were 
investigated  as  possible  sources  of  this  false  tripping: 

•  Physical  orientation  of  the  relays  (because  of  space 
limitations  the  units  were  installed  on  their  sides  in  the 
load  center), 

•  Induced  currents  in  parallel  CT  secondary  leads, 

•  Low  control  voltage, 

•  Voltage  transient  from  the  counter  activation. 

The  GFR's  were  tested  in  the  laboratory  with  the  relays 
upright,  on  their  sides,  upside  down,  etc.;  the  sensitivity 
and  time  delay  were  unaffected.  Next,  two  GFR's  were 
energized  with  their  CT  secondary  leads  at  various  dis- 
tances and  orientations  with  respect  to  each  other.  No 
differences  in  performance  were  detected.  Voltage  mea- 
surements of  the  control  transformer  underground  showed 
it  remained  constant  at  120  V  when  the  test  buttons  were 
pushed.  Further  tests  in  the  laboratory  revealed  that  the 
relays  would  not  trip  until  the  control  voltage  dropped 
to  65  V.  Finally,  the  counters  were  disconnected,  and 
the  relays  operated  properly  without  interfering  with 
each  other.  These  counters  consist  of  an  electromagnetic 
coil  that,  upon  loss  of  signal,  counts  by  disengaging  a 
ratchet  wheel.  The  switching  of  this  inductive  load  created 
a  voltage  transient  that  activated  the  other  units. 


Several  methods  of  transient  suppression  were  tried  in 
the  laboratory  without  success.  Metal-oxide  varistors 
(MOV's)  were  connected  across  the  input  of  the  relay 
electronics;  capacitors  were  placed  across,  and  ferrite-core 
inductors  in  series  with,  the  relay  power  supply.  Only  the 
placement  of  0.33-^F  capacitors  across  the  counter  coil 
solved  the  problem. 

It  was  felt  that  GFR  transient  immunity  was  not  com- 
promised by  the  tripping  associated  with  the  electro- 
magnetic counters.  The  voltage  transient  created  by  the 
inductive  coil  switching  was  severe,  but  extremely  localized 
in  the  power  system.  The  switching  of  large  motor  loads 
should  not  give  rise  to  similar  problems  because  of  the 
damping  effect  of  the  intervening  cable  impedance. 

Ground  Fault  Relay  Performance 

The  relays  were  then  connected  to  the  mine  power  sys- 
tem, with  mine  personnel  periodically  inspecting  the  units 
and  resetting  those  that  tripped.  Table  1  lists  the  GFR 
performance  at  the  end  of  30  days. 

Table  1. -Counter  readings  of  GFR  performance 


Relay  location1 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

After  30  days 

3 
1 

9 
3 

5 
3 

1 
0 

2 
1 

n 

After  additional  2  weeks  .  .  . 

0 

'See  figure  22. 

480-V, 
3-phase 

Figure  25.-Sensltlve  GFR  Installation,  Bruceton  Mine. 


At  this  time  all  units  were  removed  from  service  and 
examined  in  the  laboratory.  Both  digital  units  installed  in 
building  07  were  malfunctioning.  GFR  1,  protecting  the 
SRCM,  could  not  be  reset  and  remained  in  a  trip  mode. 
The  GFR  for  the  Experimental  Mine  would  not  trip  when 
tested.  After  troubleshooting,  the  following  components 
(fig.  21)  were  found  defective  and  repaired: 

GFR  1:   Digital  IC5,  CD4001. 

GFR  2:  Thyristor  Q^  2N1595;  reset  switch  S,;  in  addi- 
tion, the  main   power  transformer  Tj  was  resoldered. 

Before  the  evaluation  was  continued  underground,  the 
prototypes  were  thermally  stressed  at  120°  F  while  ener- 
gized in  an  environmental  chamber  for  1  week.  No  addi- 
tional malfunctions  were  uncovered.  The  units  were  then 
reinstalled  at  their  original  locations  on  the  mine  power 
system  and  monitored  for  2  weeks  by  mine  personnel.  The 
largest  motor  fed  from  the  load  center,  the  60-hp,  480-V 
pump  motor  for  the  cutting  machine,  was  started  repeat- 
edly to  determine  if  the  resultant  current  inrush  would 
affect  GFR  3.  No  false  trips  were  observed.  The  ab- 
sence of  tripping  when  the  pump  motor  was  started  is 
encouraging  from  the  standpoint  of  immunity  of  transient 
common-mode  currents.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  digital 
GFR  5  was  found  inoperative  because  of  defective  IC5, 
CD4001.  In  addition,  it  was  observed  that  when  the  relay 
electronics  cards  were  inserted  into  the  relay  enclosures, 
they  did  not  always  contact  the  rear  terminals  without 
being  jiggled. 


14 


The  prototype  ac  GFR's  were  installed  on  the  Bruceton 
Mine  power  system  for  a  total  of  6  weeks.  During  this 
period  they  were  exposed  to  anomalies  and  transients  as- 
sociated with  the  system.  The  count  history  revealed  a 
high  number  of  trips  for  the  GFR  protecting  the 
Experimental  Mine  (GFR  2,  table  1).  It  may  be  specu- 
lated that  the  relays  in  building  07  were  more  accessible 
than  those  underground  and  were  reset  with  a  higher 
frequency  by  mine  personnel.  Also,  it  may  be  speculated 
that  the  malfunctions  of  the  digital  relays  in  building  07 
were  the  result  of  a  design  flaw  or  their  greater  exposure 
to  upstream  power  system  transients,  especially  lightning. 
Additional  studies  were  necessary  to  pinpoint  the  causes  of 
these  malfunctions. 

Ground  Fault  Relay  Modifications 

The  6-week  evaluation  at  the  Bruceton  Mine  pointed 
out  several  deficiencies  in  the  test  setup  and  the  GFR 
design,  which  were  addressed  in  followup  laboratory  work. 
First,  the  use  of  120-V  electromechanical  counters  to 
monitor  relay  activation  was  judged  to  be  of  limited  utility, 
since  mine  personnel  were  relied  upon  to  check  the  units 
visually.  An  unattended  GFR  may  count  one  trip  when  in 
reality  it  could  have  tripped  many  times  with  prompt  reset. 
Consequently,  electronic  totalizers  were  procured  as 
replacements  for  the  electromechanical  counters.  Char- 
acterized by  high  input  impedance,  the  totalizers  featured 
an  internal  battery  power  supply  and  were  sensitive  to  6-V 
pulses.  These  monitoring  devices  were  connected  to  the 
GFR's  internal  circuitry  via  amplifier  circuits  shown  in 
figure  26.  The  totalizers  monitor  the  presence  of  tripping 
signals,  internal  to  the  GFR,  that  are  present  any  time 
leakage  currents  through  the  CT  exceed  50  mA  for  the 
prescribed  time  delay.  Since  the  internal  tripping  signals 
are  unaffected  by  relay  status,  trip  events  can  be  monitored 
without  reliance  on  mine  personnel. 

As  shown  in  figure  21,  outputs  3  and  11  of  NOR 
gate  ICjg  were  grounded.  However,  through  inversion 
these  outputs  became  high  and  should  be  floated.  Cor- 
rection of  this  error  eliminated  the  overheating  of 
ICjb  (CD4001)  in  the  digital  GFR  models. 

In  addition  to  these  basic  changes,  further  modifications 
were  recommended.  Troubleshooting  in  the  laboratory 
was  hampered  by  the  lack  of  readily  identifiable  test  points 
on  the  printed  circuit  board.  Key  circuit  locations  could  be 
made  more  accessible  by  the  installation  of  color-coded 
test  points  on  the  side  of  the  board.  Also,  to  permit 
measurements  while  the  GFR  is  in  service,  extender 
boards  could  be  fabricated. 

Extracting  the  printed  circuit  board  from  the  metallic 
enclosure  opens  the  CT  secondary.   During  service,  high 


2N2222 

To 

k,Q<L      counter 


KEY 
[3]  [JJ  Test  points  on  ac  GFR 

[JJ  Emitter  of  UJT  Q, 

U  Output  of  QA5(IC2  )  (PIN  7) 

Figure  26.-Totalizer  amplifier  circuits  for  digital  (A)  and  analog 
(S)  GFR's. 

voltages  could  be  present  across  these  terminals,  endan- 
gering personnel  in  close  proximity.  Consequently,  a 
means  should  be  devised  to  ensure  that  the  CT  secondary 
is  shorted  if  the  circuit  board  is  removed.  This  could  take 
the  form  of  a  shorting  connector  or  a  high-ohmic-value 
resistor  in  combination  with  back-to-back  Zener  diodes  to 
limit  high  voltages. 

To  ease  CT  installation,  metal  mounting  brackets  and 
screw  terminals  should  be  added  to  the  CT  housing.  Also, 
a  connector  should  be  installed  on  the  relay  enclosure  to 
facilitate  connection  of  the  CT  and  the  120-V  control 
power. 

Many  modifications  can  be  implemented  to  improve 
ruggedness  and  reliability.  The  CT  assembly  can  be  pot- 
ted. To  improve  connector  contact,  the  circuit  board  can 
be  double  sided  with  plated  through-holes.  In  lieu  of 
commercial-grade  components,  parts  built  to  military 
specifications  can  be  employed. 

Many  of  these  changes  were  incorporated  subsequently 
in  GFR's  built  for  the  Bureau  by  a  small  electronics  firm. 
These  prototypes  were  then  used  in  field  evaluations  at 
commercial  sites. 


15 


Commercial  Tests 

Through  announcements  in  trade  magazines  and  the 
Bureau's  "Technology  News,"  the  mining  community  was 
made  aware  of  the  potential  safety  benefits  of  sensitive 
ground-fault  protection.  Several  companies  inquired  about 
the  availability  of  prototypes  for  field  evaluations. 

Three  GFR's  were  forwarded  to  a  western  haulage- 
equipment  manufacturer  for  testing  on  two  types  of  new 
electrical  scooptrams  used  in  hard-rock  mines.  One 
vehicle,  intended  for  use  in  small-diameter  haulageways, 
had  a  tramming  capacity  of  1,500  lb  with  a  0.5-yd3  bucket. 
Electrically  powered  at  380  V,  three-phase,  50-Hz,  via  a 
250-ft,  No.  6  AWG  trailing  cable,  it  featured  a  30-hp 
motor  onboard.  Existing  ground-fault  protection  was  set 
at  4  A  with  no  fault-limiting  resistance.  With  the  sensitive 
GFR  trip  set  at  60  mA,  the  vehicle  was  operated  through 
load-haul-dump  cycles  under  start,  run,  and  stall  conditions 
for  over  8  h  without  any  GFR  trips. 

Next,  a  prototype  GFR  was  evaluated  with  a  large 
scooptram  of  27,000-lb  tramming  capacity  and  8-yd3  bucket 
capacity.  Electrically  powered  at  600  V,  three-phase, 
60-Hz,  it  featured  a  200-hp  motor  onboard.  Nuisance-free 
GFR  operation  was  experienced  with  a  trip  setting  of 
100  mA.  When  adjusted  to  lower  settings,  the  GFR  would 
activate  upon  motor  startup. 

These  tests,  the  first  commercial  evaluations  of  the 
prototype  GFR's,  proved  their  viability  for  50-Hz  power. 


It  is  believed  that  further  reductions  in  the  trip  setting 
would  have  been  possible  if  a  grounding  resistor  of 
suitable  ohmic  value  had  been  utilized  at  the  source 
transformer.  Nevertheless,  the  manufacturer  was  quite 
pleased  with  the  results  and  noted  that  a  high  degree  of 
safety  was  obtained  with  protection  set  at  100  mA.  This 
manufacturer  is  now  considering  equipping  all  new  vehicles 
with  sensitive  GFR's. 

Through  assistance  from  the  Mine  Safety  and  Health 
Administration,  arrangements  were  made  with  a  mine 
operator  to  evaluate  the  sensitive  GFR  in  an  underground 
coal  mine  in  southern  Ohio.  The  prototype  was  installed 
within  a  1,040-V  ac  load  center  and  protected  a  750-ft, 
1/0  AWG,  SHD-GC  cable  powering  a  continuous  miner. 
When  the  power  was  energized,  the  relay  immediately  acti- 
vated, indicating  a  ground  fault  was  present.  Trouble- 
shooting by  the  mine  electrician  revealed  that  the  high- 
frequency  signal  of  the  local  ground-check  monitor, 
superimposed  on  the  power  conductors,  was  induced  into 
the  relay  through  the  GFR  toroidal  CT.  Repositioning  the 
monitor's  tone  filter  eliminated  this  problem.  However, 
the  sensitive  GFR  continued  to  activate  whenever  the 
circuit  breaker  was  closed.  This  was  attributed  to  the 
significant  charging  current  of  the  shielded  cable  and  was 
eliminated  when  the  GFR  trip  setting  was  increased  to 
75  mA. 


DIRECT  CURRENT  UTILIZATION 


The  second  phase  of  the  Bureau's  sensitive  ground-fault 
research  program  focused  on  protection  of  dc  power 
systems  feeding  offtrack  vehicles.  For  the  past  25  years 
the  use  of  dc  for  powering  underground  mining  equipment 
has  continually  declined,  with  a  concomitant  rise  in  the 
consumption  of  ac.  This  trend  is  logical  as  ac  can  be 
transmitted  and  distributed  more  efficiently  and  ac  motors 
require  much  less  maintenance.  At  first  glance,  it  may 
seem  that  dc  systems  in  the  mining  industry  are  destined 
for  obsolescence.  However,  for  certain  mining  applications 
such  as  traction  where  high  starting  torques  are  needed, 
the  series-wound  dc  motor  is  more  suitable.  Thus,  dc  will 
continue  to  play  a  role  in  powering  mining  machinery, 
especially  in  the  form  of  onboard  rectification.  Workers 
will  continue  to  operate  and  repair  dc  machines,  and  the 
dc  shock  hazards  associated  with  these  jobs  will  continue 
to  exist. 

Previous  Bureau-sponsored  research  (9)  showed  that  of 
all  possible  ground-fault  protection  schemes,  a  differential- 
current    arrangement   using   a   saturable   transformer 
appeared  to  provide  the  greatest  measure  of  safety  because 
of  its  fail-safe  operation  and  selectivity  in  protecting 


individual  circuits.  As  shown  in  figure  27,  a  toroidal  trans- 
former serves  as  the  ground-fault  current  sensor  and 
encircles  both  the  positive  and  negative  outgoing  con- 
ductors of  the  dc  circuit.  The  primary  winding  of  the 
sensor  is  excited  by  an  ac  signal,  while  the  secondary  is 
connected  to  the  GFR. 


Saturable 
transformer 


To 


rectifier  _^_ 


To  grounding 
resistor 


To  ac 
primary  excitation 


■*■  Positive 
—  Negative 
-*■  Ground 


To 
machine 


Figure    27.-Differential    current    relaying    using    saturable 
transformer. 


16 


Under  unfaulted  conditions,  ac  is  induced  in  the 
secondary  winding,  causing  the  relay  to  operate  in  the 
normal  mode.  The  circuit  current  through  the  positive 
conductor  equals  that  through  the  negative  conductor,  and 
the  magnetic  fields  about  both  conductors  tend  to  cancel 
each  other.  When  a  ground  fault  occurs,  the  currents  in 
the  positive  and  negative  conductors  become  unequal.  The 
resultant  magnetic  field  alters  the  transformer  action  of  the 
sensor  and  reduces  the  voltage  across  the  transformer- 
secondary  winding,  causing  the  relay  to  initiate  a  tripping 
action.  These  two  components,  the  saturable  transformer 
and  the  solid-state  relay,  comprise  the  sensitive  dc  ground- 
fault  protection. 

PROTOTYPE  DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 


Primary  excitation  frequency  was  plotted  against  the 
drop  in  output  voltage  during  a  ground  fault.  From  fig- 
ure 30,  it  can  be  seen  that  a  relatively  low  frequency  is 
desirable.  A  nominal  value  of  110  Hz  was  chosen  to  avoid 
interference  with  60-  and  180-Hz  induced  voltages. 

The  completed  design  is  shown  in  figure  31.  The  sen- 
sor's magnetic  properties  are  mechanically  protected  by  a 
metal  and  phenolic  housing. 

Electronic  Relay 

Analysis  of  the  electronic  relay  shows  that  it  consists  of 
a  series  of  building  blocks  (fig.  32).  The  110-Hz  oscillator 
powers  the  primary  of  the  saturable  transformer  sensor. 


Current  Sensor 

The  sensor  was  designed  (20)  using  theoretical  predic- 
tions of  performance  along  with  experimental  observations. 
The  parameters  to  be  quantified  are  shown  in  figure  28. 
They  include  Rs,  the  series  resistance;  Np  and  Ns,  the 
primary  and  secondary  turns;  the  core  material  and 
dimensions.  A  0.5-in,  tape-wound  core  was  constructed  of 
a  high-permeability,  low-loss  nickel-iron  alloy.  To  ac- 
commodate two  power  conductors,  the  core  was  sized  at 
2.5  in;  its  overall  outside  diameter  was  3.5  in.  After 
winding,  the  core  was  annealed  to  remove  strain  and 
impurities  from  the  tape. 

Dc  was  then  applied  through  the  window  while  the  ac 
secondary  voltage  was  measured,  with  the  objective  to 
maximize  the  drop  in  ac  output  for  dc  fault  currents  in  the 
milliampere  range.  By  varying  the  number  of  primary  and 
secondary  turns,  the  series  resistance,  and  the  exciting 
voltage,  plots  of  the  ac  output  versus  the  dc  fault  current 
were  derived,  as  shown  in  figure  29.  Satisfactory  per- 
formance was  obtained  with  a  series  resistance  of  470  ft 
and  25  turns  on  the  primary  and  secondary. 


Relay 
input 

impedance 


200  300 

FAULT  CURRENT,  mA 


500 


Figure  29.-Saturable  transformer  output  voltage  versus  dc 
fault  current 


dc  load 


0.001       001  0.1  1.0  10.0       100.0 

FREQUENCY,   kHz 


Figure  28. -Saturable  transformer  current  sensor. 


Figure  30.-Drop  in  sensor  output  versus  frequency. 


17 


Si 


F 


Figure  31  .-Saturable  transformer  prototype. 


|ov 


+  I2V 


Adjustable 
time  delay 


IIO-Hz 
oscillator 


Trip  level 
filter  output 


Comparator 
output 


Trip  signal 
sensor  output 


Delay  timer 
output 


Oscillator 


1       Current 
"1       sensor 

I 


Band- pass 
filter 


Comparator 


Trip  signal 
sensor 

— *■ 

Relay  delay 
timer 

— ». 

Relay  trip 
network 

Mechanical 
relay 

i 

i 

\ 

' 

t 

Reset  check 
network 

Power 
supply 

Figure  32.-Dc  relay  block  diagram. 


Figure  33  displays  timing  diagrams  from  the  circuitry 
shown  schematically  in  figure  34.  During  the  imposition 
of  a  ground  fault,  the  magnitude  of  the  primary  input 
signal  remains  constant.  The  sensor  output,  essentially 
identical  to  the  input,  feeds  a  second-order  band-pass  filter 
designed  with  a  3-dB  bandwidth  of  10  Hz  and  a  midband 
voltage  gain  of  5.  When  a  ground  fault  greater  than  or 
equal  to  150  mA  dc  flows  through  the  sensor  window,  the 


0 


Trip  signal 
generator 


Figure  33.-Dc  relay  timing  diagram. 


sensor  core  saturates  and  the  fdter  output  drops  to  55  pet 
of  its  original  value.  The  peak  ac  output  of  the  band-pass 
fdter  is  compared  with  a  positive  reference  voltage  at 
the  input  of  a  comparator.  Adjustment  of  this  reference 
voltage  sets  the  current  pickup  or  trip  level,  recommended 
at  150  mA  dc. 

During  a  fault  the  comparator  no  longer  sends  periodic 
pulses  to  a  retriggerable  one-shot  acting  as  a  trip  signal 
sensor.  Accordingly,  the  output  of  this  one-shot  switches 
from  1  to  0,  its  stable  state.  This  transition  triggers  an 
adjustable  timer,  which  in  turn  activates  the  relay  trip 
network  via  the  gating  of  a  silicon-controlled  rectifier 
(SCR),  if  the  fault  duration  is  100  ms  or  longer.  The  firing 
of  this  thyristor  diverts  current  from  the  coil  of  an 
electromechanical  relay.  This  deactivated  relay  in  turn 
operates  the  trip  mechanism  of  the  circuit  breaker.  As 
with  the  ac  sensitive  GFR's,  the  dc  prototype  features  a 
reset  switch  and  a  test  circuit.  In  addition,  the  GFR  acts 
to  remove  power  upon  loss  of  signal  from  the  sensor  or 
upon  loss  of  the  120-V  ac  control  power. 


18 


r-- 


cr.<t 
o  z 


5      ,-KHi' 


cj 


*—  otr> 


rose 


"^-0|— HMrl |l«- 


DO  !2g 
CJ*  jjjznfi 
m  —  — 


I 

a 

>• 
a 


u 

•o 

"5 

E 
a 

o> 

B 

■o 
o 

a 

E 

£ 

i 


il 


"\A^-{gpH 


19 


The  components  of  the  prototype  are  mounted  on  an 
interchangeable  board  within  a  metallic  housing  as  shown 
in  figure  35.  This  compact  design  measures  8-3/4  in  high 
by  5-1/2  in  deep  by  2  in  wide. 

LABORATORY  EVALUATION 

The  sensitive  dc  GFR  prototypes  were  evaluated  for 
immunity  against  voltage   and  current  transients  in  a 


manner  similar  to  that  used  for  the  ac  prototypes.  In  all 
tests,  the  relays  did  not  falsely  activate  nor  did  they 
become  damaged  by  the  simulated  power  system  surges. 
The  dc  GFR's  are  available  for  installation  in  an 
underground  mine  having  dc  face  equipment  fed  from  a 
three-phase  full-wave  rectifier. 


ALTERNATING  CURRENT  DISTRIBUTION 


The  final  phase  of  the  Bureau's  ground-fault  research 
program  focused  on  the  ac  distribution  portion  of  coal 
mine  power  systems.  These  high-voltage  circuits  feature 
a  series  of  switchhouses,  each  with  inherent  ground-fault 
protection,  distributed  along  the  way  from  the  surface  to 
the  section  load  centers.  The  operation  of  the  electro- 
mechanical GFR's,  installed  in  these  switchhouses,  is 
coordinated  by  large,  intentional  time  delays  to  ensure  that 


faults  are  cleared  without  interrupting  power  to  sound, 
upstream  circuit  portions.  These  additive  delays  may  in 
practice  average  2  s  per  relay.  As  a  result,  upstream  relays 
respond  slowly  to  hazardous  ground  currents  and  workers 
are  exposed  to  fire  and  burn  hazards.  In  response  to  these 
problems,  the  Bureau  conducted  research  to  design  and 
construct  a  coordination-free  relaying  system  that  reacts  to 
a  ground  fault  50  to  100  times  faster  than  present  pro- 
tective systems. 

To  understand  the  concept  of  coordination-free  re- 
laying, a  series  of  switchhouses  must  be  visualized  installed 
along  a  high-voltage  distribution  line  (fig.  36).  If  a  relay 
in  an  upstream  switchhouse  detects  a  ground  fault  and  a 
downstream  relay  does  not,  the  fault  must  be  in  the  zone 
joining  them.  Consequently  the  upstream  relay  will  acti- 
vate the  local  circuit  breaker.  If  both  upstream  and  down- 
stream relays  detect  faults,  the  fault  must  be  downstream 
from  the  zone  and  neither  relay  will  activate. 

BACKGROUND  RESEARCH 

Initial  research  centered  on  determining  the  highest 
practical  ohmic  values  for  high-voltage  grounding  resistors. 
These  components,  connected  between  the  transformer- 
secondary  neutral  point  and  the  earth  grounding  medium, 
restrict  ground-fault  current  magnitude.  To  provide  pro- 
tection against  electrocutions,  this  limitation  should  be  in 
the  milliampere  range. 

Underground  high-voltage  cable  is  required  to  have 
metallic  shielding  around  each  power  conductor.  Con- 
sequently,   this    cable    exhibits    significant    distributed 


Figure  35. -Dc  relay  prototype. 


SH  I  SH  2  SH  3 

Figure  36.-Typical  high-voltage  distribution  circuit 


20 


capacitance  not  only  among  power  conductors,  but  also 
between  power  and  ground  conductors.  In  addition,  the 
use  of  discrete  capacitors  for  surge  and  power-factor 
correction  adds  to  the  circuit  capacitance.  Thus,  dis- 
tribution circuits  feature  charging  currents  of  up  to  10  A. 
Through  a  computer-assisted  transient  evaluation  of  mine 
distribution  circuits,  it  was  concluded  that  instability  results 
if  ground  faults  are  limited  below  capacitive  charging 
currents.  Thus,  it  was  recommended  that  present  ground- 
fault-limiting  levels  of  25  A  continue  to  be  utilized, 
precluding  complete  personnel  shock  protection. 

With  coordination-free  relaying,  detected-fault  status  is 
continuously  transmitted  from  the  downstream  to  the  up- 
stream relay.  Utilizing  dependable  blocking  logic,  the 
signal  from  the  downstream  relay  acts  to  prevent  tripping. 
The  most  practical  communication  link  available  appears 
to  be  the  ground-check  conductors  already  present  in 
almost  all  high-voltage  cables  used  with  pilot  ground-check 
monitors  (GCM's). 

Ground-check  monitoring  systems  for  high-voltage  dis- 
tribution usually  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  grounding 
conductor  connected  between  switchhouses  (fig.  37). 
Separate,  independent  GCM  units  are  installed  in  each 
switchhouse.  GCM's  commonly  circulate  low-voltage 
60-Hz  signals  through  the  pilot-ground  circuit.  Con- 
sequently, a  transmission  frequency  of  1,000  Hz  was 
chosen  for  the  coordination-free  ground-fault  relay 
(CF-GFR)  blocking  signal.  Active  electronic  filters  were 
used  to  couple  and  decouple  the  superposed  signals. 

Two  intentional  delays  were  proposed  for  the  ex- 
perimental relays:  50  ms  for  primary  and  relay-racing 
protection  and  150  ms  for  backup  protection.  Primary 
protection  must  include  time  for  fault  signal  detection  and 
a  safety  factor.  Relay  racing  occurs  if  a  blocking  signal  is 
not  received  in  time  to  prevent  false  tripping  upstream. 
The  backup  delay  is  desirable  should  the  downstream 
breaker  fail  to  open  during  a  ground  fault. 

It  was  recommended  that  backup  be  graded  in  150-ms 
increments,  with  the  most  downstream  breaker  in  a  series 


path  having  a  50-ms  delay  as  primary  protection  and  no 
backup  relay.  The  next  outby  breaker  would  have  a  50-ms 
delay  for  primary  protection  and  a  total  delay  of  200  ms  in 
backup.  The  next  relay  would  exhibit  delays  of  50  and 
350  ms,  respectively. 

PROTOTYPE  DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

Once  design  criteria  were  established,  a  CF-GFR  was 
designed  and  three  prototypes  were  constructed.  Block 
diagrams  for  the  overall  system  and  each  relay  are  shown 
in  figures  38  and  39,  respectively  (27).  The  CF-GFR 
design  has  been  fully  documented  through  schematics,  wir- 
ing diagrams,  and  component  listings  (22). 

The  blocking  signal,  tuned  to  1,000  Hz,  is  coupled  to 
the  pilot  and  ground  wires  through  a  switch  controlled  by 
a  logic  device.  When  a  ground  fault  is  sensed  locally,  the 
coupling  is  accomplished.  The  purpose  of  the  attenuator 
is  to  avoid  a  very  low  impedance  path  between  the  pilot 
and  ground  wires.  Such  a  path  would  severely  reduce  the 
blocking  signal  amplitude  and  prevent  its  propagation  to 
the  upstream  switchhouse  and  relay. 

The  upstream  detector  circuit  checks  for  proper  ampli- 
tude and  frequency  in  the  incoming  downstream  blocking 
signal.  The  60-Hz  GCM  signal  is  attenuated  by  the  band- 
pass filter.  When  the  blocking  signal  is  detected,  a  block- 
ing logic  signal  is  sent  to  the  trip  element  actuator  to  in- 
hibit primary  protection  tripping. 

Local  zero-sequence  ground  faults  are  sensed  by  the 
toroidal  CT.  When  this  ground  current  is  greater  than  the 
pickup  level  of  5  A,  a  trip  signal  is  sent  to  the  trip  element 
actuator  after  the  appropriate  delay  interval.  However, 
primary  protection  is  inhibited  if  a  blocking  signal  has 
been  detected  from  the  downstream  relay.  Backup  delay 
time  is  then  sensed.  The  trip  element  is  then  actuated  at 
the  end  of  the  backup  delay  interval  if  the  locally  sensed 
ground  fault  is  still  greater  than  the  pickup  setting. 

Additionally,  if  the  local  fault-sensing  CT  becomes 
open,  then,  irrespective  of  any  other  signals,  a  trip  is 


Pilot 

conductor 


2 


Grounding 
conductor 


GCM 


J? 


Pilot  conductor 


Grounding  conductor 


GCM 


J) 


—  Pilot 
conductor 


t 


Grounding 
conductor 


SH  1 


SH  2 


Power  flow  O 

Figure  37,-Simplified  diagram  of  ground-check  monitoring  system  used  in  mine  distribution  systems. 


GFR  signal 
generator 


Switch 


Pilot 
wire 


Ground  wire 


I,     , 


Primary  delay 
circuit 


Blocking 
logic 


Trip  element 
actuator 


Backup  delay 
circuit 


a 


Circuit  breaker 


Attenuator 


Machine 
frame 


60-Hz  GCM 


21 


GFR 
detector 


Logic 
device 


Band-pass 
filter 


Local  fault 
sense  circuit 


X 


Phase  conductor 


GCM    relay 


Pilot 
wire 


Ground  wire 


Figure  38.-System  block  diagram. 


Phase 

conductor 


Sense  and 
amplify 


Open-coil 
detection 


Filter 


Backup  delay 

generator 

circuit 


T 


Logic  for 
trip  signal 
generation 


Adjust 

pickup  level 


Comparator 


Adjust  delay 


Primary  delay 

generation 

circuit 


Local  trip 

signal 
generator 


Logic  for 
trip  signal 
generation 


Trip 
element 


Downstream 
inhibit  signal 


Figure  39.-Block  diagram  of  relay  circuit 


22 


activated  instantaneously.  Also,  if  an  increase  in  imped- 
ance of  the  pilot-  and  ground-wire  circuits  is  sensed  by  the 
GCM,  an  instantaneous  trip  is  activated. 

LABORATORY  EVALUATION 

Laboratory  tests  with  a  12-V  commercial  GCM  and  the 
CF-GFR  prototypes  verified  that  both  safety  devices  will 


function  without  interfering  with  each  other.  The  operat- 
ing range  of  the  GCM's,  whose  voltage  is  compatible 
with  the  GFR  filters,  is  limited  to  4,000  ft  by  the 
substantial  impedance  of  No.  8  AWG  pilot  conductors. 
Nevertheless,  this  should  not  preclude  the  direct  appli- 
cation of  CF  GFR's  on  most  underground  distribution 
circuits. 


CONCLUSIONS 


Sensitive  and  coordination-free  ground-fault  protec- 
tion has  been  designed  for  use  on  resistance-grounded 
mine  power  systems.  To  facilitate  commercial  manu- 
facture, the  designs  are  fully  documented  by  detailed 
schematics,  assembly  drawings,  and  component  listings. 
Prototype  units  have  been  tested  in  the  laboratory  and 
are  available  for  installation  in  underground  mines. 
Implementation  of  this  practical  protection  would  not 
require   extensive   alterations   to   mine   power   systems. 


Existing  GFR's  would  simply  be  replaced  with  solid-state 
units. 

The  sensitive  GFR's,  when  installed  on  ac  and  dc  mine 
utilization  circuits,  can  prevent  nearly  all  the  poten- 
tial electrocutions  on  these  low-voltage  power  systems. 
CF  GFR's,  installed  on  ac  distribution  circuits  in  coal 
mines,  can  reduce  the  incidence  of  fires  associated  with 
high-voltage  power  systems  by  significantly  decreasing 
response  time  to  faults. 


REFERENCES 


1.  Oyier,  A.  Electrical  Accidents  in  Mining  (1980-85).  Fatal  and 
Nonfatal  Accidents  Underground  and  on  the  Surface  at  Underground 
Coal  and  Metal-Nonmetal  Mines.    BuMines  IC  9259,  1990,  in  press. 

2.  Dalziel,  C.  F.,  and  W.  R.  Lee.  Reevaluation  of  Lethal  Electric 
Current.  IEEE  Trans,  and  Ind.  Gen.  Appl.,  v.  IGA-4,  No.  5,  1968, 
p.  467. 

3.  Lee,  R  L.  Electrical  Safety  in  Industrial  Plants.  IEEE  Trans. 
Ind.  and  Gen.  Appl.,  v.  IGA-7,  No.  1,  1971,  p.  11. 

4.  Geddes,  L.  A.,  and  L.  E.  Baker.  Response  to  Passage  of  Electric 
Current  Through  the  Body.  J.  Assoc.  Adv.  Med.  J  -frum.,  v.  5,  No.  1, 
1971,  p.  233. 

5.  Knickerbocker,  G.  C.  Fibrillating  Parameters  of  Direct 
and  Alternating  20  Hz  Currents  Separately  and  in  Combination-An 
Experimental  Study.  IEEE  Trans.  Commun.,  v.  COM-21,  No.  9,  1973, 
p.  1017. 

6.  Bernstein,  T.  Safety  Criteria  for  Intended  or  Expected  Non- 
Lethal  Electrical  Shock.  Proceedings  of  the  First  International  Sympo- 
sium on  Electrical  Shock  Safety  Criteria,  Toronto,  Canada.  Pergamon 
Press,  Inc.,  1985,  p.  283. 

7.  Morley,  L.  A.  Mine  Power  Systems  (contract  J0155009,  PA  State 
Univ.).  Volume  II.  BuMines  OFR  178(2)-82,  1982,  p.  79;  NTIS  PB  83- 
120386. 

8.  Wagner,  C.  F.  Symmetrical  Components.  McGraw-Hill,  1933, 
437  pp. 

9.  Morley,  L.  A.,  F.  C.  Trutt,  and  D.  J.  Rufft.  Electrical-Shock 
Prevention  (contract  J0113009,  PA  State  Univ.).  Volume  II-Ground- 
Fault  Interrupting  Devices.  BuMines  OFR  177(2)-83,  1982,  110  pp.; 
NTIS  PB  84-102953. 

10.  U.S.  Navy.  U.  S.  Standard  Requirements  for  Electrical  Equip- 
ment. Mil.  Stand.  454J,  Sec.  1  and  36,  Apr.  1984,  pp.  1-1-1-12  and 
36-1-36-2. 

11.  Cablec  Corp.  (Indianapolis,  IN).  Mining  Cable  Engineering 
Handbook.  1987,  168  pp. 

12.  Stanek,  E.  K.,  W.  Vilcheck,  and  A.  Kunjara.  Mine  Electrical 
Power  Systems.  Transients  Protection,  Reliability  Investigation,  and 
Safety  Testing  of  Mine  Electrical  Power  Systems  (grant  G0144137,  WV 


Univ.).    Volume    I-Transients    in    Mine    Electrical    Power   Systems. 
BuMines  OFR  6(1)-81,  1979,  169  pp.;  NTIS  PB  81-166761. 

13.  Underwriters  Laboratories  (Melville,  NY).  Ground-Fault  Circuit 
Interrupters.    Stand.  943,  1980,  14  pp. 

14.  U.S.  Code  of  Federal  Regulations.  Title  30-Mineral  Resources; 
Chapter  I-Mine  Safety  and  Health  Administration,  Department  of 
Labor;  Subchapter  0-Coal  Mine  Safety  and  Health;  Part  75-Mandatory 
Safety  Standards-Underground  Coal  Mines,  Subpart  G-Trailing  Cables; 
Sec.  75.601.   July  1,  1988. 

15.  Yenchek,  M.  R,  and  M.  N.  Ackerman.  Evaluation  of  Sensitive 
Ground-Fault  Interrupters  for  Coal  Mines.  BuMines  IC  9057,  1985, 
15  pp. 

16.  Magnetics  (Butler,  PA).  Design  Manual  Featuring  Tape- Wound 
Cores.   Publ.  TWC-300R  1980,  28  pp. 

17.  Steen,  F.  L.  Supertoroids  With  'Zero'  External  Fields  Made  With 
Regressive  Windings.    Electron.  Des.,  v.  18,  Sept.  1976,  p.  45. 

18.  Dolinar,  K.  D.  Improved  Ground-Fault  Protection  System  for 
Low-  and  Medium-Voltage  Trailing  Cables.  Conference  Record  of  the 
1980  IEEE-Industry  Applications  Society  Annual  Meeting,  Cincinnati, 
OH.    IEEE,  1980,  p.  594. 

19.  Morley,  L.  A,  F.  C.  Trutt,  and  T.  Novak.  Sensitive  Ground-Fault 
Protection  for  Mines.  Phase  I-Alternating  Current  Utilization, 
(contract  J0134025,  PA  State  Univ.).  BuMines  OFR  26-85,  1984,  89  pp.; 
NTIS  PB  85-185767. 

20.  Kohler,  J.  L.,  F.  C.  Trutt,  and  L.  A.  Morley.  Sensitive  Ground- 
Fault  Protection  for  Mines.  Phase  II-Direct  Current  Utilization 
(contract  J0134025,  PA  State  Univ.).  BuMines  OFR  29-87, 1986,  81  pp.; 
NTIS  PB  87-203410. 

21.  Trutt,  F.  C,  H.  G.  Rotithor,  and  J.  L.  Kohler.  A  Coordination- 
Free  Relay  for  AC  Mine  Distribution  Systems.  Conference  Record  of 
the  1988  IEEE-Industry  Applications  Society  Annual  Meeting, 
Pittsburgh,  PA  IEEE,  1988,  p.  1727. 

22.  Trutt,  F.  G,  J.  L.  Kohler,  H.  G.  Rotithor,  L.  A.  Morley,  and 
T.  Novak.  Sensitive  Ground-Fault  Protection  for  Mines.  Phase  III— 
Coordination-Free  GFR's  for  AC  Distribution  (contract  J0134025,  PA 
State  Univ.).   BuMines  OFR  2-89,  1988,  95  pp.;  NTIS  PB  89-143382. 


23 


APPENDIX 

[.-ABBREVIATIONS  AND  SYMBOLS 

ac 

alternating  current 

PW 

pilot  wire 

AWG 

American  wire  gauge 

Q 

thyristor 

C 

capacitor 

QA 

operational  amplifier 

CF-GFR 

coordination-free  ground-fault 

relay 

R 

resistor 

CR 

relay 

Rt 

body  resistance 

CT 

current  transformer 

Rs 

grounding  resistor 

D 

diode 

R, 

inner  toroidal  radius 

dc 

direct  current 

Rl 

load  resistance 

E 

RMS  output  voltage  of  transformer  secondary 

R0 

outer  toroidal  radius 

f 

frequency 

Rs 

source  resistance 

F 

fuse 

RMS 

root-mean-square 

GCM 

ground-check  monitor 

S 

switch 

GFR 

ground-fault  relay 

SCR 

silicon-controlled  rectifier  (thyristor) 

h 

toroid  core  width 

SH 

switchhouse 

I 

current 

t 

time 

*p 

RMS  value  of  ground-fault  current 

ti 

opera^g  time  of  GFR 

IC 

integrated  circuit 

t2 

operating  time  of  molded-case  circuit  breaker 

K 

electromagnetic  relay 

T 

transformer 

L 

inductor 

TP 

test  point 

LED 

light-  emitting  diode 

u 

core  permeability 

MOV 

metal-oxide  varistor 

U 

digital  logic  component 

N 

number  of  turns  on  secondary  < 

winding 

UJT 

unijunction  transistor 

Np 

primary  turns 

vtt 

control  voltage 

Ns 

secondary  turns 

v* 

dc  voltage 

N.C. 

normally  closed 

vta 

line-to-neutral  system  voltage 

N.O. 

normally  open 

z 

Zener  diode 

INT.BU.OF  MINES,PGH.,PA  29177 


> 
z 
m 
O 
c 
> 
i- 

o 

"0 

~o 
O 


3 

m 


O 

< 
m 

3) 


413=  90 


Jp*fc. 


^"•7m*"  <** 


**<& 


o.     • 


_ .  /\  #H'  /%  -jBR:  /\  l%9)  J*x  -•' 


•  d>*^  - 


=5^ 


1>N^5^^^5^T?^ 


*  ^ 
^ 


«4<k 


jP^Ci, 


4,*V     e^lf"     ^ 


A°* 


a0  -a 


rl0^ 


V      co«<.4      * 


