FT  MEADE 

GenCol  1 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


RA  395 

.  ■  •  .  .  .  •  - 

■  •  >  .  i  iV.  4  *  */■ 

•  *  -  -*  •  •  .  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  *  *  s.  .  **•  -•  ...  .  . 

.A3C32 

'  *.  -•*  *  *  */  *  *,  - 

■ 

loon 

>  ■  .  4  *•  *V#V.  /.  v  /'•/  /.  ■ '  *X  •*  '  /.t 

iyyu 

Copy  2 

•  ■ 

o* 


V  -v...  •  •  :>k:;«^°  •  ‘VtefrV  *  *14 

;  %£  '■sSSVk'  -  *  -*MZS-..  4.  «  --«*** 


0s'  °5§il|' •  0,Jbv^ 

’“111?*  *P*j.r 

O  *  O  **«  - 

*  v  A?  +  *&*>*+ 

°  Vf><£ 


°  -s^  #/ 

.  ♦ov*  « 

•".0°  *a  »■ 


Vs 


§gr*  °  *VA.  o  £ 


’  o  <y-^  o 
•«  v  -X)  "  *  X>>  yV  o 

4  -A'  <y~  0>  *>  v  « 

jCx  O.  ❖ ,  c  **  A  ^ >  v c 


r>  v^pr-  0*  4  V*w>  o0  V 

"04,  ».„  »>°  s  „ . ,  V  >o»<>’  ,1  *  ..V 

►  vx  .0  » V-.  ^  <  .  , v  fr  o  c,  o  vV 

ft  'V  A  * . 4r  «r\^x< /Vi  0  \ 

%  2  VS’  «  &-;ki  r  VN  -  x 


^  A* 

-  °^  ^  '•  / 

.  w  *  i 

•  >P  X  '5< 

.*\o°  V' 

_  A  *  «§Ik3&  *  J 


0  4v»  * 

0  Voc5= 


»  J,\  lllf.*  ■ 

*  y  •*■  K  <f>  "l^W  “O’  <?  .  o  a  <>. 

A'Xt'X*  *  *  :4^:°  •  v!.: 


0 #  1  ■* % 

%<P  i^A\  %‘f  :0$kr  \><S  -0^\  *•*“£' 

?\  %w/  °.1P/  /\  **v\  -<*. 

»H°**\^  ”  *  '  lV4«^*oo  *  ’  i,*«-^  * 

V  *  ‘  ":  V  y ^  '  °- 

O 


'*+  A'  ^ 
ft  OV  ft 

.  •  ..  -  -'^K? "  v°Y^,  * 

,n  ft  ^  jp  V  n o'3  °q,  ^  .0  ^  # 

A'£&*  \  s?s%:>Sl  A-^  ? 

'y/- 


C^>  ,, 

;  vo^  *41^®,  ft  yov  ft 

0  ^  ft 


,v—>:^°^  * 

\  /  r  ^  J?  ft  ^ 


1;  ri»'i  .* :«■»  W  » JH * 

is  j’wwt*  WSrf  . 

'&0K  *  ^ 


W  v 


^°x-  :«yi? 

<-  dWv'JljS?  s?  .r  *  >*  >  O  **i  J*  <,'r  r\  *V  tr£>249*r  •{■  O  < 

£•»  *>°  •  v**  V'-»y>  .o.V*m  *>°^X'““°V^a»*.\,>’  *>V^ 

V^A:  W  A:  V:#sV  -  A 


a 

Lv 


4pfiv  ^V  vljjP*"  ^v\  »,%l.;  °5lP 

*  i,**'v  *  %y^y£  ‘  *  '&s£X  *  ‘  v?^>«b  *  • ", 

W  "'A-  n>^  *4rC=:  ?4§l&*  «bv*  ^ 


A  Call  for  Action 

THE  PEPPER  COMMISSION 

U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission 
on  Comprehensive  Health  Care 


Supplement  to  the  Final  Report 
September  1990 


D<jW 

H 


A  Call  for  Action 


THE  PEPPER  COMMISSION 

U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission 
on  Comprehensive  Health  Care 


Supplement  to  the  Final  Report 
September  1990 


S.  Prt.  101-115 

Printed  for  the  use  of  the  Pepper  Commission 


U.S  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
28-861  WASHINGTON  :  1990 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 

Washington,  D.C.  20402 


THE  PEPPER  COMMISSION 


U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Comprehensive  Health  Care 


SENATOR  JOHN  D.  ROCKEFELLER  IV,  West  Virginia,  Chairman 
House  of  Representatives  Senate 


WO 

2 


FORTNEY  PETE  STARK,  California,  Vice  Chairman 

BILL  GRADISON,  Ohio,  Vice  Chairman 

MARY  ROSE  OAKAR,  Ohio 

LOUIS  STOKES,  Ohio 

THOMAS  TAUKE,  Iowa 

HENRY  WAXMAN,  California 


MAX  BAUCUS,  Montana,  Vice  Chairman 
DAVE  DURENBERGER,  Minnesota,  Vice  Chairman 
JOHN  HEINZ,  Pennsylvania 
EDWARD  M.  KENNEDY,  Massachusetts 
DAVID  PRYOR,  Arkansas 


Presidential  Appointees 


JAMES  BALOG 
JOHN  COGAN 
JAMES  DAVIS,  M.D. 


Staff  Members 


Judith  Feder,  Staff  Director 
Edward  F.  Howard,  General  Counsel 


Steven  C.  Edelstein 
Tiffany  Ericksen 
Robert  B.  Friedland 
Janis  E.  Guerney 
Monica  E.  McFadden 
Philip  Shandler 


Robyn  I.  Stone 
Dessa  Vrtikapa 
Judith  G.  Waxman 
S.  Mitchell  Weitzman 
Joy  Johnson  Wilson 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Page 

HEALTH  CARE 

West  Germany’s  Health-Care  and  Health-Insurance  System:  Combining  Universal  Access  With  Cost 

Control — Uwe  E.  Reinhardt,  Ph.D .  3 

Europe’s  Decentralized  and  Semi-Private  Health  Insurance — William  A.  Glaser .  19 

Controlling  Health  Care  Costs — Mark  Merlis .  27 

Medical  Malpractice — Paul  Weiler  and  Troyen  A.  Brennan .  43 

Design  of  Health  Plan  Benefits  for  the  Nonelderly — Janet  Lundy .  57 

Preventive  Health  Services — Melvina  Ford  and  Mark  Merlis .  67 

Health  Benefits  for  Treatment  Services  for  Substance  Abuse  and  Mental  Illness — Edward  Klebe .  79 

Quality  Assurance:  A  Comprehensive,  National  Strategy  for  Health  Care  Is  Needed — General 

Accounting  Office .  93 

Primary  Care  Service  Delivery  Programs — A  Critical  Element  to  Ensuring  Access  to  Care — Bonnie 

Lefkowitz  and  Judy  Rodgers .  105 

Limiting  Favored  Tax  Treatment  for  Employee  Health  Insurance — Marilyn  Moon,  Ph.D .  121 

Fewer  Resources,  Greater  Burdens:  Medical  Care  Coverage  for  Low-Income  Elderly  People — Diane 

Rowland,  Sc.D .  125 

LONG-TERM  CARE 

Case  Management  in  Long-Term  Care — Office  of  Technology  Assessment .  149 

Role  of  Federal  and  State  Governments  and  Voluntary  Organizations  in  Assuring  Quality  of  Care 

in  Selected  Long-Term  Care  Services — Carol  O’Shaughnessy  and  Richard  Price .  161 

Due  Process:  Review  and  Appeal  Procedures  in  Long-Term  Care — Jane  Handler  Yurow .  173 

STAFF  MEMORANDA  AND  BRIEFING  PAPERS 

Canada’s  Health  Care  System:  Questions  Americans  Should  Ask .  217 

Financing  Long-Term  Care  in  Canada .  219 

Comparing  Health  Care  Financing  Across  Nations:  A  Summary .  221 

Comparing  Financing  and  Delivery  of  Long-Term  Care  Across  Nations:  A  Summary .  223 

Canadians’  Use  of  the  American  Health  Care  System .  225 

Comparison  of  Selected  Comprehensive  Health  Plans .  227 

An  Overview  of  Issues  in  Estimating  the  Market  Potential  for  Private  Long-Term  Care  Insurance....  231 

Converting  Life  Insurance  Benefits  to  Long-Term  Care  Benefits .  237 

Adding  a  Long-Term  Care  Option  to  Medicare .  239 


m 


LIST  OF  TABLES 

Table  Page 

HEALTH  CARE 

West  Germany’s  Health-Care  and  Health-Insurance  System:  Combining  Universal  Access  With  Cost 
Control 

1  Alternative  Mixes  of  Health-Insurance  and  Health-Care  Delivery .  4 

2  Selected  Demographic  Data — United  States  and  West  Germany,  1985 .  5 

3  Variance  in  the  Payroll-Tax  Rate  Across  West  German  Sickness  Funds,  1988 .  15 

Primary  Care  Service  Delivery  Programs — A  Critical  Element  to  Ensuring  Access  to  Care 

1  How  Increased  Reimbursement  Affects  Capacity  and  Services  in  C/MHCs .  119 

Fewer  Resources,  Greater  Burdens:  Medical  Care  Coverage  for  Low-Income  Elderly  People 

1  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population  by  Poverty  Level,  1988 .  127 

2  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population  by  Income  Level  and  Selected  Characteristics,  1988 .  128 

3  Characteristics  of  the  Elderly  Population  by  Income,  1988 .  129 

4  Health  Status,  Medical  Conditions  and  Other  Related  Problems  of  the  Elderly  Population, 

1984 .  131 

5  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  the  Elderly  Population,  1988 .  131 

6  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  the  Elderly  Population  by  Income,  1988 .  132 

7  Medicaid  Income  Eligibility  Limits  for  Elderly  Individuals,  1989 .  134 

8  Medicaid  Income  Eligibility  Limits  for  Elderly  Couples,  1989 .  135 

9  Medicaid  Resource  Eligibility  Limits  for  the  Elderly  Population,  1989 .  136 

10  Use  of  Physician  Services  and  Prescription  Drugs  by  the  Elderly  Population  by  Insurance 

Coverage,  1987 .  137 

1 1  Cost-Sharing  Liabilities  for  Elderly  Medicare  Enrollees  Resulting  From  the  Use  of  Medicare 

Services,  1990 .  139 

12  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care  by  the  Elderly  Population,  1989 .  140 

13  The  Impact  of  Medicaid  on  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care  by  Low-Income 

Elderly  People,  1989 .  142 

14  Shifts  in  Poverty  Status  Due  to  Medical  Expenses .  142 

15  Number  of  New  Eligibles  Assisted  by  Proposal  to  Expand  Medicaid  Coverage  of  the  Low- 

Income  Elderly  Population,  1990 .  144 

16  Cost  of  Proposal  to  Expand  Medicaid  Coverage  of  the  Low-Income  Elderly  Population, 

1990 .  144 


IV 


LIST  OF  FIGURES 

Figure  page 

HEALTH  CARE 

West  Germany’s  Health-Care  and  Health-Insurance  System:  Combining  Universal  Access  With  Cost 
Control 

1  Direct  Health-Care  Expenditures,  1975-86 .  5 

2  Sources  and  Uses  of  Direct  Health  Care  Expenditures .  6 

3  The  Structure  of  the  West  German  Health  Insurance  System .  8 

4  Alternative  Financial  Arrangements  Between  Patients,  Providers  and  Third-Party  Payers .  12 

5  Average  Premium  in  the  Statutory  Health  Insurance  System .  13 

Fewer  Resources,  Greater  Burdens:  Medical  Care  Coverage  for  Low-Income  Elderly  People 

1  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population  by  Poverty  Level,  1988  .  127 

2  Percent  of  Elderly  Who  Are  Poor  or  Near-Poor  by  Sex,  Race,  Age  and  Living  Arrange¬ 

ment,  1988 .  128 

3  Percent  of  Elderly  People  Reporting  Fair  or  Poor  Health  by  Income,  1984 .  130 

4  Percent  of  Elderly  Population  With  Selected  Conditions,  1984 .  130 

5  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  Elderly  People,  1988 .  131 

6  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  Elderly  People  by  Income,  1988  .  132 

7  State  Medicaid  Eligibility  Criteria  for  Elderly  Individuals,  1989 .  133 

8  Utilization  of  Physician  Services  by  the  Elderly  Population  by  Insurance  Coverage,  1987 .  137 

9  Utilization  of  Prescription  Drugs  by  the  Elderly  Population  by  Insurance  Coverage,  1987 .  138 

10  Hospitalization  Rates  for  Selected  Groups  of  Elderly  People,  1984 .  138 

11  Medicare  Benefits  and  Cost-Sharing  Liabilities  for  Hospital  and  Physician  Services,  1990 .  139 

12  Out-of-Pocket  Expenses  for  Medical  Care  as  a  Percent  of  Per  Capita  Income,  1986 .  140 

13  Components  of  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care,  1989 .  140 

14  Percent  of  Elderly  People  With  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Acute  Care  Exceeding  15  Per¬ 

cent  of  Income,  1986 .  141 

15  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  as  a  Percent  of  Income  for  Low-Income  Elderly  People  by  Hospital 

Use  and  Insurance  Coverage,  1986 .  141 

16  The  Impact  of  Medicaid  on  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care  by  Low-Income 

Elderly  People,  1989 .  142 

17  Poverty  Among  Elderly  People  Before  and  After  Medical  Expenses .  143 


v 


Health  Care 


WEST  GERMANY’S  HEALTH-CARE  AND  HEALTH- 
INSURANCE  SYSTEM:  COMBINING  UNIVERSAL 
ACCESS  WITH  COST  CONTROL 


Uwe  E.  Reinhardt,  Ph.D.* * 


INTRODUCTION 

As  the  United  States  struggles  with  its  twin  prob¬ 
lems  in  health  care — providing  the  nation’s  low- 
income  families  with  access  to  adequate  health  care, 
and  controlling  the  cost  of  health  care — it  is  natural 
to  explore  how  other  nations  have  tried  to  address 
these  problems. 

The  United  States  now  spends  slightly  11  percent 
of  its  GNP  on  health  care.  Most  other  industrialized 
nations  spend  only  about  6  to  9  percent.  Yet  all  of 
these  nations  have  succeeded  in  extending  compre¬ 
hensive  health  insurance  coverage  to  all  of  their  citi¬ 
zens,  a  goal  that  has  so  far  eluded  the  United  States 
for  some  30  to  35  million  Americans. 

These  remarkable  differences  in  spending  and  insur¬ 
ance  coverage  lead  one  to  wonder  (1)  how  other  na¬ 
tions  manage  to  enjoy  universal  insurance  coverage 
and  yet  keep  their  outlays  on  health  care  so  low,  (2) 
precisely  what  additional  benefits  Americans  actually 
receive  for  their  much  larger  spending  on  health  care 
and  (3)  what,  if  any,  features  of  health  systems  abroad 
might  be  grafted  upon  the  American  health  system. 

In  searching  for  answers  to  these  questions  Ameri¬ 
cans  have  looked  chiefly  to  their  northern  neighbor. 
Numerous  articles  and  monographs  have  recently  ap¬ 
peared  on  the  strengths  and  shortcomings  of  Canada’s 
government-financed  health  system,  and  no  American 
health-care  conference  has  considered  itself  complete 
without  at  least  one  session  on  the  Canadian  system. 

The  West  German  health  system,  however,  may 
furnish  an  even  more  instructive  data  point  from  the 
American  perspective.  That  system  represents  an  at¬ 

•  Report  prepared  for  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Comprehensive 
Health  Care  by  Uwe  E.  Reinhardt,  Ph.D.,  James  Madison  Professor  of  Politi¬ 
cal  Economy,  Princeton  University,  August  30,  1989,  Revised  June  25,  1990. 


tempt  to  achieve  horizontal  equity  in  the  distribution 
of  health  care  and  fairly  good  control  over  total 
health  care  expenditures  without  a  complete  takeover 
of  the  health-insurance  system  by  the  government. 
The  chief  policy  instruments  used  to  that  end  are  (1) 
tight,  statutory  regulation  of  a  network  of  self-govern¬ 
ing,  self-financing  sickness  funds  that  observe  sub¬ 
stantially  identical  methods  and  schedules  for  com¬ 
pensating  the  providers  of  health  care,  and  (2)  use  of 
health-insurance  premiums,  rather  than  taxes  and 
transfers,  to  redistribute  income  from  relatively 
healthy  or  high-income  groups  to  relatively  sick  or 
low-income  groups. 

Table  1  illustrates  the  position  of  West  Germany’s 
health  system  in  the  spectrum  from  purely  govern¬ 
mental  to  purely  private  health  care.  That  table  makes 
a  clear  distinction  between  the  production  and  the  fi¬ 
nancing  of  health  care,  a  distinction  not  usually  made 
by  observers  who  tends  to  lump  together  all  foreign 
health-care  systems  under  the  derogatory  label  social¬ 
ized  medicine. 

Strictly  speaking,  the  term  socialized  medicine 
should  be  reserved  for  health  systems  in  which  the 
government  operates  the  production  of  health  care 
and  provides  its  financing  (i.e.,  systems  in  Cell  A  of 
the  table).  Great  Britain  and  most  of  the  Nordic  coun¬ 
tries  of  Europe  fit  that  label,  as  do  the  health  systems 
operated  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs 
and  by  the  Department  of  Defense. 1 

By  contrast,  one  would  not  call  Canada’s  health 
system  “socialized  medicine”  on  that  definition,  be¬ 
cause  Canada’s  system  combines  socialized  (govern¬ 
ment)  financing  of  health  care  with  a  pluralistic, 

1  It  is  no  small  irony  that  President  Eisenhower,  a  staunch  opponent  of  so¬ 
cialized  medicine,  actually  spent  the  bulk  of  his  adult  life  in  Box  A  of  Table 

1,  that  is,  relying  on  purely  socialized  medicine.  Many  American  Congressmen 
and  -women  as  well  as  Senators  also  rely  on  socialized  medicine  for  their  health 
care. 


3 


partly  private  and  partly  public  delivery  system  that 
extends  over  all  three  rows  in  Table  1.  Nor  does  the 
West  German  health  system  fit  the  label  of  socialized 
medicine. 


Table  1  Alternative  Mixes  of  Health-Insurance 
and  Health-Care  Delivery 


Production  and 
Delivery 

Collectivized  (Socialized)  Financing  of  Health 
Care 

Direct 

Financing 

Government 

Financed 

Insurance 

Private  Health  Insurance  * 

Out  of 
Pocket  by 
Patients  at 
Point  of 
Service 

Within  a 
statutory 
framework 

Within  an 
unregulated 
market 

Purely 

Government 

Owned 

A 

D 

G 

J 

Private 

Not-for-Profit 

Entities 

B 

E 

H 

K 

Private 

For-Profit 

Entities 

C 

F 

1 

L 

The  The  West 
Canadian  German 

Health  Health 

System  System 

*  Note:  Technically,  whenever  the  receipt  of  health  care  is  paid  for  by  a  third  party 
rather  than  by  the  recipient  at  point  of  service,  it  is  financed  out  of  a  collective  pool 
and  is  thus  "socialized”  financing.  In  this  sense,  private  health  insurance  is  just  as 
much  "collectivist"  or  "socialized”  as  is  government-provided  health  insurance.  Both 
forms  of  financing  destroy  the  normal  working  of  a  market,  because  both  eliminate 
the  individual  benefit-cost  calculus  that  is  the  sine-qua-non  of  a  proper  market. 

West  Germany’s  health  system  is  concentrated  in 
rows  D,  E  and  F  of  Table  1.  It  is  even  further  re¬ 
moved  from  bona  fide  socialized  medicine  than  is 
Canada’s  health  system,  because  both  the  production 
and  the  financing  of  health  care  in  that  country  are 
pluralistic  (although  both  facets  are  rather  tightly 
constrained  by  Federal  statutes).  At  this  time,  for 
example,  only  about  12  percent  of  total  direct  health¬ 
care  expenditures  in  West  Germany  is  paid  for 
directly  out  of  public  budgets.  The  comparable  Amer¬ 
ican  number  is  42  percent. 

It  is  probable  that  the  American  health  system  will 
eventually  stumble  toward  an  arrangement  that  will 
resemble  West  Germany’s  in  important  respects,  with 
a  tightly  regulated,  private  health-insurance  industry 
taking  the  place  of  West  Germany’s  sickness  funds. 
The  scenario  might  be  the  following.  Given  the 
emerging  pressures  in  the  American  economy,  both 
the  federal  and  the  state  and  local  governments  are 
likely  to  continue  in  their  attempts  to  procure  health 
care  for  publicly  insured  patients  at  fees  below  the 
providers’  full  cost,  leaving  private  business — particu¬ 


larly  small  business  firms  with  weak  market  power — 
to  furnish  proportionately  more  of  the  providers’ 
revenue.  At  the  same  time,  the  public  sector  is  likely 
to  shift  financial  responsibility  for  low-income, 
uninsured  working  Americans  onto  the  shoulder  of 
private  business  by  mandating  employer-paid  health 
insurance.  In  return,  the  business  sector — once  again, 
particularly  small  business  firms — can  be  counted  on 
to  ask  for  mandated  open  enrollment  and  community- 
rating,  on  the  underwriting  side  of  health  insurance, 
and  for  common  fee  schedules  applying  to  all  payers, 
on  the  reimbursement  side.  That  system  would 
occupy  cells  D,  E  and  F  in  Table  1. 

The  remainder  of  this  report  provides  a  synposis  of 
West  Germany’s  health  system,  with  primary  empha¬ 
sis  on  the  insurance  facet.  The  first  section  below  is 
confined  to  the  country’s  health-care  delivery  system. 
The  West  German  health-insurance  system  is  de¬ 
scribed  in  the  following  section.  The  last  section  con¬ 
centrates  on  insights  Americans  might  draw  from  the 
West  German  experience. 


THE  WEST  GERMAN  HEALTH-CARE 
DELIVERY  SYSTEM 

West  Germany  currently  has  a  population  of  61 
million.  That  population  is,  on  average,  much  older 
than  that  of  the  United  States.  In  1985,  for  example, 
only  15  percent  of  West  Germany’s  population  was 
younger  than  15  years;  the  comparable  American 
figure  was  22  percent.  On  the  other  hand,  close  to  15 
percent  of  the  West  German  population  in  that  year 
was  older  than  65  years,  compared  with  only  12  per¬ 
cent  of  the  American  population.  Table  2  presents 
these  and  other  demographic  data. 

If  the  much  older  West  German  population  were 
served  by  an  American-style  health-care  financing  and 
delivery  system,  the  country  obviously  would  have  to 
spend  much  more  on  health  care  than  does  United 
States  at  this  time,  because  the  average  per-capita 
health  expenditures  of  older  persons  exceeds  that  of 
younger  persons  by  a  factor  of  2  to  3.  In  fact,  how¬ 
ever,  West  Germany  somehow  succeeds  in  spending 
considerably  less  on  health  care  than  does  the  United 
States,  as  is  shown  in  Figure  1.  Total  direct  spending 
on  health  services  and  supplies  amounted  to  less  than 
8  percent  in  West  Germany  during  1986,  but  to  over 
10  percent  in  the  United  States.2 


2  These  numbers  differ  from  the  1 1  percent  or  so  that  “national  health  ex¬ 
penditures”  in  the  United  States  are  said  to  be  taking  of  “gross  national  prod¬ 
uct.”  The  category  of  “direct  expenditures  on  health  services  and  supplies” 
excludes  certain  public  health  activities  of  the  government,  medical  research, 
and  construction  of  medical  facilities,  all  of  which  are  included  in  the 


4 


Table  2  Selected  Demographic  Data— United 
States  and  West  Germany,  1985 


Statistic 

United  States 

West  Germany 

Total  Population . 

240  million 

61  million 

15% 

— percent  under  15  years  of 

22% . 

age. 

—percent  over  65 . 

12% . 

15% 

Life  Expectancy: 

—male . 

71.1  years . 

71.2  years 
77.8  years 

9.6/1000 

— female . 

78.3  years .. 

Infant  Mortality  Rate  * . 

10.6/1000 . 

*  Deaths  of  children  one  year  or  younger,  per  1,000  live  births;  1984. 


SOURCE:  Schneider,  Sommer  and  Keleci  (1987),  tables  F.2.2.1  and  F.8.2.1. 


Yet  one  does  not  often  hear  talk  of  rationing  in 
West  German  health  care — certainly  not  nearly  as 
often  as  that  issue  is  raised  in  the  United  States.  West 
Germany  has  more  physicians  per  capita  than  does 
the  United  States,  and  also  more  hospital  beds.  The 
country  prides  itself  on  its  advanced,  research-ori¬ 
ented  pharmaceutical  industry  and  on  its  reliance  on 
high-tech  medicine,  which  reaches  into  the  practice  of 
most  private  practitioners.  There  is  some  evidence 
that  a  variety  of  high-cost,  high-tech  medical  technol¬ 
ogies  are  more  abundantly  available  in  the  United 
States  than  they  are  in  West  Germany.  But  stories  of 
“patient-dumping”  or  of  poor  patients  who  are  denied 
access  to  available  health  care  simply  for  want  of  abil¬ 
ity  to  pay — a  regular  feature  now  in  America’s  daily 
press — are  completely  unknown  in  West  Germany. 
Such  stories  would  horrify  West  Germans  and  un¬ 
doubtedly  would  bring  swift  remedial  action  by 
government. 

The  West  German  health-care  delivery  system  rep¬ 
resents  a  pluralistic  mix  of  private  medical  practices 
and  both  private  and  publicly  owned  inpatient  facili¬ 
ties  among  which  patients  typically  may  choose 
freely. 


tions  of  physicians  and  health-insurers,  as  will  be  de¬ 
scribed  further  on. 

Figure  1  Direct  Health-Care  Expenditures, 
1975-86  * 

UNITED  STATES  AND  WEST  GERMANY 


DRECT  HEALTH-CARE  EXPENDITURES  PER  CAPITA 

ADJUSTED  FOR  GE>€RAL -PRICE  ILLATION 


DIRECT  HEALTH-CARE  EXPENDITURES,  1975-86 
AS  A  PERCENT  OF  GROSS  DOMESTIC  PRODUCT 


Of  West  Germany’s  roughly  150,000  active  physi¬ 
cians  (about  245  physicians  per  100,000  populations, 
compared  with  a  comparable  number  of  220  in  the 
United  States),  about  67,000  or  45  percent  work  in 
private,  office-based  ambulatory  practice  among 
whom  patients  have  free  choice.  These  physicians  are 
compensated  for  their  services  on  a  fee-for-service 
basis,  according  to  a  predetermined  and  binding  fee 
schedule  that  is  negotiated  between  regional  associa- 

broader  definition  of  "national  health  expenditures.”  The  term  “gross  domes¬ 
tic  product"  refers  to  the  total  output  produced  within  a  nation’s  boundaries, 
whether  by  nationals  or  foreigners  residing  within  these  boundaries.  By  con¬ 
trast,  the  term  “gross  national  product”  refers  to  the  total  output  produced 
by  a  nation’s  citizens,  within  the  nation’s  boundaries  or  abroad.  In  practice, 
the  two  national  output  measures  do  not  differ  substantially  in  magnitude. 


*  Excludes  Administrative  Costs,  Research  and  Construction. 

SOURCE:  Schneider,  Sommer  and  Kececi  (1987). 

Under  the  strict,  statutory  dividing  line  between 
ambulatory  and  inpatient  care  imposed  by  German 
law,  physicians  in  ambulatory  practice  do  not  follow 
their  patients  into  the  hospital  after  they  have  referred 
a  patient  there,  as  is  the  custom  in  the  United  States. 
Instead,  all  inpatient  physician  services  are  rendered 
by  the  80,000  or  so  hospital-based  physicians  who  are 
salaried  employees  of  their  hospital.  Among  these 
hospital-based  physicians,  only  the  chiefs  have  the 
privilege  of  seeing  private  patients  on  both  an  ambula¬ 
tory  and  an  inpatient  basis. 


5 


West  Germany  has  about  11  hospital  beds  per  1,000 
population,  which  is  about  twice  the  comparable 
American  number.  Close  to  half  of  all  West  German 
hospitals  beds  are  in  publicly  owned  facilities,  mainly 
municipal  hospitals.  Another  35  percent  of  beds  are  in 
private,  not-for-profit  community  hospitals,  and 
close  to  13  percent  are  in  privately  owned,  for-profit 
facilities. 

As  a  rule,  the  capital  budgets  of  West  German  hos¬ 
pitals — even  of  privately  owned,  for-profit  hospitals — 
are  furnished  by  the  state  governments,  subject  to  a 
regional  plan.  The  operating  funds  of  hospitals,  on  the 
other  hand,  come  from  the  nation’s  health  insurance 
system  in  the  form  of  predetermined  per  diems  that 
are  negotiated  by  each  hospital  separately  with  re¬ 
gional  associations  of  health  insurers,  under  an  all¬ 
payer-system. 

At  this  time,  the  average  cost  per  inpatient  day  in 
West  Germany  is  about  DM  300  ($  180),  although 
there  is  some  variation  about  this  average,  depending 
on  the  type  and  location  of  the  hospital.  About  15 
percent  of  the  total  per-diem  cost  represents  the 
salary  of  hospital-based  physicians.  An  inclusive  per- 
diem  cost  of  $  180  or  so  may  seem  extremely  low  by 
American  standards,  but  it  is  not  strictly  comparable 
to  the  American  per  diem  cost,  because  the  average 
length  of  stay  in  West  German  hospitals  is  over  twice 
the  American  average.  Part  of  that  differential  reflects 
the  widespread  use  of  West  German  hospital  beds  for 
long-term  care.  But  average  length  of  stay  in  West 
Germany  is  close  to  twice  the  American  average  even 
for  well  defined  cases,  such  as  a  normal  vaginal  de¬ 
livery.  The  average  patient-day  in  West  German  hos¬ 
pitals  is  thus  not  at  all  the  same  as  is  an  American 
inpatient-day.  Even  so,  it  might  be  very  interesting 
for  Americans  to  study  the  West  German  hospital  in¬ 
dustry  more  closely  to  ascertain  whether  significant 
cost  differentials  remain  even  after  adjustment  for 
case-mix  and  length  of  stay. 

Figure  2  presents  compact  data  on  the  sources  and 
uses  of  direct  health-care  expenditures  in  West  Ger¬ 
many.  The  Statutory  Health  Insurance  system  ac¬ 
counts  for  about  70  percent  of  these  outlays  and 
private  health  insurance  only  about  7.4  percent.  In 
contrast  to  the  United  States,  where  over  40  percent 
of  direct  health-care  expenditures  now  flow  through 
government  budgets,  only  about  12  percent  of  West 
German  health  expenditures  come  directly  from  gov¬ 
ernment  budgets. 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  West  German  hospital 
sector  absorbs  only  about  36  percent  of  total  direct 
health  expenditures,  and  that  figure  includes  the  sala¬ 
ries  of  the  country’s  over  80,000  hospital-based  physi¬ 


cians.  By  contrast,  in  1987,  hospitals  absorbed  about 
44  percent  of  total  direct  health-care  spending  in  the 
United  States,  a  figure  that  excludes  the  bulk  of  inpa¬ 
tient  services  rendered  by  physicians.  The  American 
statistic,  however,  does  include  the  services  of  outpa¬ 
tient  departments  which  are  largely  absent  from  the 
West  German  scene,  because  ambulatory  care  is  by 
statute  the  domain  of  the  country’s  private  medical 
practitioners. 

Figure  2  Sources  and  Uses  of  Direct  Health 
Care  Expenditures  * 


WEST  GERMANY.  1985 

SOURCES  OF  FUNDS 


USES  OF  FUNDS 


*  Excludes  Administrative  Costs,  Research  and  Construction. 

SOURCE:  Schneider,  Sommer  and  Kececi  (1987),  pp.  278-9. 

Finally,  it  will  be  noted  in  Figure  2  that  private 
households  in  West  Germany  pay  directly  out  of 
pocket  for  only  about  7  percent  of  total  direct  health¬ 
care  expenditures,  mainly  for  over-the-counter  drugs 
and  appliances  (for  example  eye  glasses)  of  a  higher 
quality  than  that  fully  covered  by  health  insurance.  In 
general,  West  Germans  bear  few  if  any  out-of-pocket 


6 


expenses  for  health  care  at  the  time  such  care  is  re¬ 
ceived.  By  contrast,  American  households  pay  di¬ 
rectly  out  of  pocket  some  26  percent  of  total  direct 
health  expenditures,  which  is  the  highest  degree  of 
cost  sharing  by  patients  in  the  industrialized  world. 
This  circumstance  may  come  as  a  surprise  to  those 
who  view  excessive  health-insurance  coverage  as  the 
main  culprit  behind  America’s  high  health-care 
expenditures. 

A  quite  unique  feature  of  the  West  German  health 
system  is  the  so-called  “Concerted  Action” 
(Konzertierte  Aktion),  an  annual  assembly  of  all  of  the 
stakeholders  in  the  country’s  health  care  system.  This 
annual  assembly  was  mandated  by  Federal  law  in 
1977.  It  includes  representatives  of  the  associations  of 
all  of  the  providers  (including  pharmacists),  of  the 
Statutory  and  private  health  insurance  carriers,  of  the 
pharmaceutical  industry,  of  the  major  unions  and 
associations  of  employers,  and  representatives  of  the 
state  and  local  governments.  It  is  the  task  of  this  as¬ 
sembly  to  establish  annually  broad,  national  guidelines 
for  the  economic  development  of  the  health  care 
system,  among  them  the  overall  growth  in  expendi¬ 
tures  relative  to  the  expected  growth  of  the  Gross 
National  Product  (GNP). 

The  assembly  was  intended  by  government  to  serve 
as  a  consensus-building  device.  It  does  not  have  gov¬ 
ernmental  powers.  For  example,  the  guidelines  it 
establishes  are  not  legally  binding  upon  any  of  the 
parties;  they  merely  serve  as  benchmarks  for  negotia¬ 
tions  over  fees,  prices  and  per  diems  of  health  services 
that  take  place  annually  at  the  state  level  between 
associations  of  insurers  and  of  providers.  The  assem¬ 
bly  has,  so  far,  carried  forward  its  work  with  varying 
success,  but  is  generally  credited  with  having  had 
some  constraining  effect  on  negotiations  at  the  lower 
level.  Furthermore,  its  work  is  widely  covered  in  the 
media. 


WEST  GERMANY’S 
HEALTH  INSURANCE  SYSTEM 

Virtually  the  entire  West  German  population  has 
comprehensive  health  insurance  coverage  for  a  very 
broad  range  of  benefits  that  includes  ambulatory  phy¬ 
sician  care,  all  inpatient  care,  prescription  drugs, 
dental  care,  medical  supplies  and  appliances,  and  even 
recreational  stays  (the  so-called  Kuren)  in  health  spas 
following  major  bouts  of  illness  or  merely  a  state  of 
exhaustion.  With  minor  exceptions,  the  covered  serv¬ 
ices  are  made  available  to  patients  free  of  coinsurance 


and  deductables  at  point  of  service.3  Until  the  Health- 
Care  Reform  Act  of  1988,  the  sickness  funds  even 
paid  for  taxis  the  elderly  might  take  to  see  the  doctor. 

As  a  general  rule,  all  West  Germans  have  free 
choice  of  doctor,  hospital,  pharmacist  and  other 
providers  of  health  care.  Closed-panel  arrangements — 
such  as  the  American  Preferred  Provider  Organiza¬ 
tion  (PPOs)  of  Health  Maintenance  Organization 
(HMOs)  that  lock  patients  into  defmed  subsets  of  pro¬ 
viders — are  unknown  in  West  Germany,  although 
there  had  been  unsuccessful  attempts  to  introduce 
HMOs  in  West  Germany  prior  to  World  War  II. 

The  comprehensive  insurance  coverage  enjoyed  by 
West  Germans  is  provided  by  a  highly  structured  and 
highly  regulated  insurance  system  that  cannot  be 
easily  labelled  as  either  private  or  public  in  the  Amer¬ 
ican  sense  of  those  terms.  About  90  percent  of  the 
population  is  covered  by  the  so-called  Statutory 
Health  Insurance  system  (the  Gesetzliche  Kran- 
kenversicherurtg  or  GKV)  that  has,  for  over  one  hun¬ 
dred  years,  constituted  the  backbone  of  the  country’s 
health-insurance  system.  Close  to  9  percent  of  the 
population  is  covered  by  private,  commercial  insur¬ 
ance  carriers.  The  remainder  is  covered  by  various 
governmental  programs,  notably  those  for  the  police 
and  the  military.  The  number  of  uninsured  individuals 
at  any  point  in  time  is  below  0.3  percent. 

Figure  3  provides  a  road-map  of  this  structured 
health-insurance  system.  The  percentages  shown  in 
that  display  represent  the  fraction  of  the  West 
German  population  belonging  to  each  type  of  insur¬ 
ance  carrier. 


The  Statutory  Health  Insurance 
System  (The  GKV) 

The  Statutory  Health  Insurance  System  (the 
Gesetzliche  Krankenversicherung  or  GKV)  is  composed 
of  some  1,200  fiscally  independent,  self-governing, 
not-for-profit  sickness  funds,  each  of  which  serves 
either  a  specific,  typically  small  geographic  area  (the 
Local  Sickness  Funds  or  Allgemeine  Orts- 
krankenkassen ),  or  the  workers  of  a  particular  firm 
(the  Betriebskrankenkassen ),  or  members  of  a  particu¬ 
lar  trade  or  craft  (the  Innungskrankenkassen).  To¬ 
gether,  these  funds  are  commonly  referred  to  as  the 
“RVO”  funds.  They  have  been  the  corner  stone  of 
the  country’s  social  security  system,  which  dates  its 


3  There  are  some  co-payments  for  certain  dental  procedures  and  for  some 
higher-priced  brand-name  drugs  for  which  lower-priced  substitutes 
are  available. 


7 


origin  to  the  late  1800s,  and  were  originally  intended  blue-  and  white-collar  workers  will  disappear  alto- 
to  cover  only  blue-collar  workers.  gether  from  the  Statutory  system. 


Figure  3  The  Structure  of  the  West  German 
Health  Insurance  System 


(THE  NUMBER  ARE  PERCENTAGES  OF  THE  POPULATION  IN  EACH  TYPE  OF  FUND.  1986) 


PRIVATE 

CARRIERS 

8.7% 


THE  STATUTORY  SICKNESS  FUNDS 
90.9% 


THE  RVO  FUNDS 
61.5% 


SUBSTITUTE 

1 

1 

1 

LOCAL 

COMPANY- 

CRAFT  AND 

FUNDS 

1 

SICKNESS 

BASED 

OTHER 

1 

1 

FUNDS 

FUNDS 

FUNDS 

27.3% 

1 

1 

1 

1 

40.2% 

11.8% 

1  1 .6% 

SOURCE:  Verband  der  Privaten  Krankenversicherungen  e.V.  Die  Private 
Krankenversicherung,  Zahlenbericht  1987/88,  p.  13. 


The  operation  of  the  RVO  Funds  (including  benefit 
package  as  well  as  underwriting  and  reimbursement 
practices)  have  been  tightly  regulated  by  a  federal  in¬ 
surance  statute  (the  Reichsversicherungsordnung  or 
RVO),  which  has  been  amended  repeatedly  to  adapt 
the  Statute  to  changing  demographic  and  economic 
conditions.4 


Every  West  German  is  entitled  to  join  the  Statu¬ 
tory  Health  Insurance  system.  An  individual’s  “mem¬ 
bership”  in  a  Statutory  sickness  fund  automatically 
covers  all  of  the  member’s  dependent  family  members. 
Membership  in  the  Statutory  system  compulsory  for 
employees  with  a  specified  income  limit  (currently 
about  DM  55,000  ($30,000)  per  year)  and  for  retired 
persons  who  had  belonged  to  the  system  during  their 
work  life.  At  this  time,  roughly  three  quarters  of  the 
90  percent  of  the  population  insured  under  the  Statu¬ 
tory  system  are  compulsory  members.  The  remainder 
have  joined  the  system  voluntarily. 

Once  a  West  German  joins  a  particular  sickness 
fund  within  the  Statutory  system,  he  or  she  typically 
remains  with  that  fund  for  life,  unless  his  or  her 
income  rises  above  the  threshold  below  which  Statu¬ 
tory  insurance  is  compulsory  and  the  individual  exer¬ 
cises  the  option  either  to  join  a  Substitute  Fund  or  to 
choose  private  health  insurance. 

Employed  sickness-fund  members  pay  for  their  own 
and  their  families’  insurance  coverage  with  a  contribu¬ 
tion  that  is  strictly  a  percentage  of  their  total  compen¬ 
sation  (roughly,  salary  and  fringe  benefits  before 
taxes)  5  and  not  at  all  related  to  either  the  size  of  the 
family  or  its  health  status.  The  premiums  of  retired 
persons  are  paid  by  the  retirees’  pension  funds  in  the 
form  of  a  flat  percentage  of  the  retiree’s  pension  (now 
a  national  average  of  12.9%).  That  percentage  is  equal 
to  the  average  payroll  contribution  rate  (the 
Beitragssatz )  working  members  make  to  the  fund. 


Subsequently,  there  were  added  to  the  RVO  Funds 
the  Substitute  Funds  (Ersatzkassen)  for  white-collar 
workers.  There  are  now  15  such  funds,  each  of  them 
operating  nationwide.  The  Substitute  Funds,  too,  are 
subject  to  the  federal  insurance  statute  and  form  an 
integral  part  of  the  Statutory  Health  Insurance  system 
(the  GKV).  Until  very  recently,  blue-collar  workers 
in  the  Statutory  system  did  not  have  access  to  the 
Substitute  Funds,  which  were  reserved  strictly  for 
white-collar  ^workers.  The  latter,  on  the  other  hand, 
could  elect  membership  in  either  a  Substitute  Fund  or 
the  RVO  fund  relevant  to  their  locality  or  company. 
Since  the  Health  Reform  Act  ( Gesundheitsreformgesetz 
or  GRG)  of  1989,  however,  blue-collar  workers  ex¬ 
ceeding  a  certain  income  limit  may  elect  membership 
in  either  their  appropriate  RVO  Fund  or  a  Substitute 
Fund  or  private  health  insurance.  It  can  be  expected 
that,  before  long,  the  archaic  distinction  between 


4  Incidentally,  the  RVO  Statute  has  served  as  a  model  also  for  the  Dutch 
and  Belgium  health  insurance  systems. 


Obviously,  the  premiums  paid  by  the  elderly  are 
much  below  the  true  actuarial  cost  of  caring  for  the 
elderly.  In  1989,  for  example,  the  premiums  paid  by 
the  elderly  covered  only  about  40  percent  of  the  sick¬ 
ness  funds’  outlays  on  the  elderly  (in  1977  that  per¬ 
centage  had  still  been  as  high  as  65  percent).  The 
difference  is  made  up  by  cross-subsidies  paid  by  work¬ 
ing  members  of  the  funds,  a  transfer  that  is  becoming 
a  source  of  contention  among  the  generations.  Funds 
with  a  particularly  heavy  load  of  retired  members  re¬ 
ceive  compensating  contributions  from  a  national  re¬ 
serve  fund  (the  Krankenversicherung  der  Rentner).  The 
objective  of  that  system  is  to  equalize  across  the  vari¬ 
ous  sickness  funds  the  financial  burden  imposed  by 
the  aged  on  working  members. 

Because  premiums  in  the  Statutory  system  are 
based  on  ability  to  pay  and  cover  also  the  insured 


5  The  system  maintains  the  fiction  that  half  of  this  contribution  is  paid  by 
the  employer  and  half  by  the  employee.  In  fact,  of  course,  the  total  contribu¬ 
tion  can  be  thought  of  as  being  paid  out  of  the  worker’s  gross  wages. 


8 


member’s  dependent  family  members,  while  commer¬ 
cial  carriers  charge  premiums  based  on  actuarial  cost, 
most  individuals  who  do  have  the  option  to  seek  pri¬ 
vate  coverage  nevertheless  prefer  coverage  under  the 
Statutory  system  as  well  (although  there  has  been 
somewhat  more  rapid  migration  to  the  private  system 
in  recent  years).  Furthermore,  under  the  recently 
passed  Health  Insurance  Reform  Act  of  1989  (the 
Gesundheitsreformgesetz  or  GRG),  persons  who  have 
opted  out  of  the  Statutory  system  in  favor  of  private 
health  insurance  lose  the  right  ever  to  return  to  the 
Statutory  system  (as  they  hitherto  could).  Younger, 
single  persons  who  may  now  find  it  financially  advan¬ 
tageous  to  exit  the  Statutory  system  may  later  come 
to  regret  that  step  when  they  found  families.  They 
will  therefore  think  twice  before  opting  out  of  the 
system. 

Administration  of  the  Statutory  System — The  Statu¬ 
tory  sickness  funds  are  managed  within  the  private 
sector,  under  the  stewardship  of  boards  of  trustees, 
half  of  whose  seats  are  filled  from  the  ranks  of  unions 
and  half  from  the  ranks  of  employers,  with  the  chair¬ 
manship  rotating  between  these  two  groups. 

In  principle,  each  of  these  funds  is  to  be  fully  fi¬ 
nanced  by  its  members,  who  are  either  workers  or  re¬ 
tired  persons.  Since  passage  of  the  Health-Care 
Reform  Act  in  1988,  however,  sickness  funds  in  par¬ 
ticular  fiscal  distress  do  in  some  states  receive  cross¬ 
subsidies  from  financially  better  of  funds. 

Although  the  Statutory  sickness  funds  tend  to  con¬ 
sider  themselves  part  of  West  Germany’s  private 
sector,  they  are  at  best  a  distant  cousin  of  what  Amer¬ 
icans  would  consider  the  “private  sector.”  The  Statu¬ 
tory  funds  operate  within  very  tight  Federal  statutes 
that,  as  noted,  dictate  not  only  the  catalogue  of  bene¬ 
fits  these  funds  must  offer  their  members,  but  also 
their  governance,  as  well  as  their  fiscal  and  regulatory 
relationships  with  the  providers  of  health  care.  One 
may  therefore  think  of  the  Statutory  system  also  as  a 
private-sector  extension  of  the  government’s  will. 
They  are  private,  self-financing  and  self-governing  en¬ 
tities  charged  with  certain  governmental  duties  and, 
therefore,  endowed  with  certain  governmental 
powers,  among  them  the  power  to  levy  payroll  taxes 
on  employed  persons  and  their  employers  and  to  re¬ 
distribute  economic  privilege  among  its  members. 

Compensation  of  Providers  Under  the  Statutory 
System — Within  a  region  (usually  a  state  or  a  sub-state 
region),  the  Statutory  sickness  funds  join  together  in 
associations  to  negotiate  with  counter-part  associa¬ 
tions  of  physicians  schedules  of  fees  that  must  be 
accepted  by  the  individual  physician  as  payment 
in  full.  The  regional  negotiations  are  based  on  a 


national  relative-value  scale  (the  Einheitlicher 
Bewertungsmassstab  or  EBM)  that  is  negotiated  for  the 
entire  Statutory  Health-Insurance  System  between  na¬ 
tional  associations  of  all  sickness  funds  and  the  cor¬ 
responding  national  associations  of  sickness-fund 
physicians. 

Although,  as  members  of  the  Statutory  Health  In¬ 
surance  system,  the  Substitute  Funds  (Ersatzkassen) 
share  with  the  RVO  Funds  the  common,  national  rel¬ 
ative-value  scale  for  physician  services,  they  negotiate 
the  monetary  value  per  relative-value  point  separately 
with  the  corresponding  regional  physician  associations 
and  have  traditionally  paid  slightly  more  than  the 
RVO  Funds.  In  1988,  for  example,  they  paid  physi¬ 
cians  Deutsche  Mark  (DM)  0.0935  per  point,  versus 
an  average  of  about  DM  0.0915  per  point  paid  by  the 
RVO  Funds.  The  RVO  Funds  in  a  region  all  pay  the 
same  fees  to  physicians.  Americans  would  describe 
such  an  arrangement  as  an  all-payer  system. 

In  1985,  the  sickness-fund  physician  associations 
agreed  to  accept  an  overall  expenditure  cap  for  their 
services.  Although  it  had  been  hoped  by  the  associa¬ 
tions  that  this  cap  would  eventually  be  lifted,  the  cap 
is  still  in  place  and  is  apt  to  remain  so  for  the  foresee¬ 
able  future.  Because  all  Statutory  sickness  funds  work 
with  the  same  relative  value  scale,  it  is  easy  to  imple¬ 
ment  the  cap  under  that  system:  if  the  utilization  of 
services  threatens  to  put  total  expenditures  over  the 
cap,  the  monetary  value  per  relative-value  point  is 
automatically  reduced. 

The  expenditure  cap  is  negotiated  annually  as  so 
many  Deutsche  Marks  (DM)  per  insured,  after  adjust¬ 
ments  for  age  and  sex.  Once  that  amount  has  been  set, 
the  total  budget  is  turned  over  by  the  sickness  funds 
to  their  counter-part  physician  associations  who  then 
disburse  the  fund  to  their  members  on  a  fee-for-serv- 
ice  basis.  In  a  nutshell,  then,  the  system  subjects  all 
physicians  to  a  zero-sum-game  jealously  watched  by 
the  physician  associations  themselves.  It  is  they  who 
police  their  own  members. 

The  introduction  of  the  expenditure  cap  for  physi¬ 
cians  has  not  led  to  the  rationing  of  health  care,  a 
consequence  widely  predicted  by  the  American  Medi¬ 
cal  Association  for  the  expenditure  targets  proposed 
for  the  United  States.  On  the  contrary,  the  steady  de¬ 
cline  of  the  monetary  value  per  relative-value  point  in 
West  Germany  suggests  that  the  number  of  services 
delivered  to  patients  has  increased  substantially  as  a 
result  of  the  cap. 

The  Statutory  sickness  funds  negotiate  jointly  with 
each  hospital  a  predetermined,  binding  per  diem  based 
on  approved,  projected  line-item  operating  budgets. 


9 


As  already  noted,  these  per  diems  now  average  about 
$  180.  There  has  been  some  experimentation  with  re¬ 
imbursement  by  DRG  on  the  American  model,  or 
with  a  system  that  combines  a  basic  per  diem  with  a 
fee-for-service  catalogue  for  ancillary  services. 

Unlike  the  typical  American  health  insurance 
policy,  West  German  insurance  policies  typically  pro¬ 
vide  fairly  complete  coverage  also  for  dental  care  (in¬ 
cluding  dentures)  and  for  all  prescription  drugs. 

Dentists  are  paid  negotiated,  predetermined  fees  for 
their  services.  These  fees  have  been  so  high  in  recent 
years  that  West  German  dentists  enjoy  a  higher 
income  than  do  West  German  physicians  in  private, 
ambulatory  practice  (who  earn  a  pre-tax  net  practice 
income  of  about  $  90,000).  In  order  to  curb  the  dis¬ 
proportionate  growth  in  their  outlays  for  dental  care, 
which  appears  to  be  driven  by  outlays  for  dentures, 
recent  legislation  has  mandated  substantial  cost  shar¬ 
ing  by  patients  for  dentures. 

Until  January  of  1989,  both  the  private  insurance 
carriers  and  the  Statutory  sickness  funds  paid  pharma¬ 
cies  the  full  retail  price  of  whatever  medications  phy¬ 
sician  had  prescribed.  Patients  did  not  share  in  the 
cost  of  prescriptions  drugs,  but  merely  paid  a  modest 
fee  (DM  3)  per  prescription.  The  price  the  insurance 
carrier  was  forced  to  pay  the  pharmacist  was  the  sum 
of  (a)  the  manufacturer’s  price,  which  the  manufacturer 
was  free  to  set  plus  (b)  a  regulated,  fixed  wholesale 
mark-up  plus  (c)  a  regulated,  fixed  retail  mark-up. 
The  private  carriers  and  the  sickness  funds  all  pay  the 
same  retail  price. 

This  open-ended  pricing  policy  left  the  demand-side 
of  the  market  effectively  without  countervailing 
power.  Combined  with  the  effect  of  full-insurance 
coverage,  it  led  to  a  relatively  large  allocation  of 
West  German  health-care  expenditures  on  prescrip¬ 
tion  drugs.  As  is  shown  in  Figure  2,  close  to  17  per¬ 
cent  of  total  direct  health-care  expenditures  in  West 
Germany  go  for  the  payment  of  pharmaceuticals.  In 
the  United  States,  where  over  75  percent  of  all  drugs 
and  sundries  are  still  paid  for  directly  by  patients  at 
point  of  receipt,  only  about  7  percent  of  total  direct 
health-care  expenditures  goes  for  that  item. 

To  control  the  large  outlays  for  prescription  drugs 
in  the  West  German  health  system,  the  conservative 
Kohl  government  drastically  altered  the  payment  for 
insured  prescription  drugs  as  part  of  its  so-called 
Health-Care  Reform  Act  passed  in  November  of 
1988.  For  West  Germany’s  pharmaceutical  industry, 
this  Act  has  been  nothing  short  of  revolutionary.  It  is 
bound  to  shrink  the  size  of  that  industry  in  the  years 
ahead. 


Henceforth,  prescription  drugs  are  to  be  assembled 
into  groups  of  “equivalent”  drugs,  where  the  defini¬ 
tion  of  “equivalency”  is  to  be  broadened  gradually 
over  time  eventually  to  include  groupings  of  totally 
different  chemical  substances  deemed  to  be  “therapeu¬ 
tically  equivalent”  (Phase  III  in  the  evolving  defini¬ 
tion  of  “equivalency”).  Under  the  new  pricing  policy 
established  by  the  Act,  the  insurance  carrier  covers 
fully  only  the  price  of  a  selected  low-cost  drug  in  the 
equivalence  group — typically  a  generic.  If  patients  or 
their  physicians  insist  on  a  higher-priced  brand-name 
drug,  the  patient  must  pay  the  price  differential  out  of 
pocket. 

So  far,  the  publication  of  the  first  equivalence 
groupings  and  the  least-cost  for  each  has  completely 
shocked  the  pharmaceutical  manufacturers  and  has 
led  brand-name  producers  to  slash  their  prices  by  up 
to  40-50  percent  for  competing  drugs  within  the  an¬ 
nounced  groupings.  They  have  done  so,  because  they 
fear  that  West  Germany’s  spoiled  patients  will  never 
consent  to  paying  sizeable  sums  out  of  pocket  for 
brand-name  drugs  in  the  equivalence  groups. 


The  Commercial  Insurance  Carriers 

The  roughly  5.5  million  West  Germans  (close  to  9 
percent  of  the  population)  covered  by  the  42  private, 
commercial  (for-profit)  insurance  carriers  in  1986  in¬ 
clude  civil  servants,  self-employed  individuals,  retirees 
who  were  covered  by  private  insurance  during  their 
work  years  and  white  collar  workers  with  an  income 
above  about  DM  55,000  or  $  30,000  per  year  (in 
1989/90)  who  have  chosen  to  opt  out  of  the  Statutory 
system. 

As  already  noted,  the  premiums  charged  by  the  pri¬ 
vate  carriers  reflect  the  actuarial  risk  of  five-year  co¬ 
horts.  Unlike  the  Statutory  system,  which  employs 
coinsurance  only  sparingly,  privately  insured  patients 
may  choose  among  alternative  plans,  with  varying  de¬ 
grees  of  cost-sharing  and  commensurately  varying 
premiums. 

An  insured  who  enters  an  insurance  contract  with  a 
private  carrier  pays  the  premium  appropriate  for  his 
or  her  five-year  cohort  at  that  time.  Thereafter,  the 
premium  is  not  raised  further  as  a  function  of  the 
insured’s  age.  It  can  be  increased  only  to  reflect  gen¬ 
eral  increases  in  health-care  costs  that  affect  all  age 
groups.  In  effect,  then,  this  premium  structure  resem¬ 
bles  the  level-premiums  American  life-insurance  com¬ 
panies  levy  for  their  whole-life  life-insurance  policies. 
And  like  these  policies,  a  private  West  German 
health-insurance  policy  overcharges  young  people  rel- 


10 


ative  to  their  own  actuarial,  short-term  risk  and  forces 
them  to  build  up  an  old-age  health-insurance  reserve, 
the  so-called  Altersruecklage. 

By  law,  West  Germans  who  decide  to  leave  their 
private  insurance  carrier  for  another  private  carrier 
forfeit  their  accumulated  old-age  health-insurance  re¬ 
serve.  Furthermore,  upon  joining  the  other  carrier, 
such  persons  must  then  pay  the  premiums  appropriate 
for  their  age-cohort  at  the  time  of  the  switch.  This 
policy  is  intended  to  force  privately-insured  persons 
into  life-cycle  planning  as  well,  for  it  contains  the 
powerful  financial  inducement  to  stay  with  one  car¬ 
rier  for  life. 

About  4.6  million  West  Germans  covered  by  the 
Statutory  system  purchase  supplementary  insurance 
coverage  from  the  private  carriers.  These  supplemen¬ 
tary  policies  typically  cover  semi-private  accommoda¬ 
tions  in  hospitals  and  cash  allowance  per  hospital  day 
or  day  of  illness. 

The  private  insurance  carriers  compensate  physi¬ 
cians  on  the  basis  of  a  statutory  fee  schedule  (the  so- 
called  Gebuehrenordnung  fuer  Aerzte  or  GOA)  set  by 
the  Federal  government  (after  consultation  with  ex¬ 
perts  and  the  medical  profession)  and  applicable  only 
to  the  private-insurance  sector.  Although,  in  principle, 
the  relative  value  scale  underlying  this  fees  schedule 
is  not  the  same  as  that  underlying  the  fee  schedule 
used  by  the  Statutory  Health  Insurance  system  (the 
so-called  EBM  schedule  described  earlier),  the  two 
relative  value  scales  have  come  ever  closer  together 
over  time,  as  the  government  leaned  on  the  Statutory 
RVS  in  establishing  the  RVS  for  the  private  health- 
insurance  system. 

As  a  rule,  physicians  treating  privately-insured  pa¬ 
tients  may  bill  the  insurer  up  to  2.3  times  the  official 
fee  schedule,  as  most  of  them  now  do.  Physicians  may 
exceed  even  this  maximum  multiple,  but  only  after 
justifying  such  extra  billing  in  advance  and  in  writing. 
Some  physicians  do  so — notably  the  chiefs  of  staff  in 
hospitals  who,  as  a  rule,  may  treat  patients  on  a  pri¬ 
vate  basis  very  much  like  their  American  colleagues 
who  have  hospital  privileges. 

For  hospital  care,  the  private  insurance  car¬ 
riers  pay  predetermined  per-diems.  These  lie  some¬ 
what  below  the  per-diems  paid  by  the  Statutory 
system,  because  hospital-based  physicians  who  treat 
private  patients  in  the  hospital  (typically  only  the 
chiefs  of  services)  bill  their  patients  directly  for  in¬ 
patient  physician  services,  while  the  per  diems  paid 
hospitals  by  the  Statutory  sickness  funds  cover  all  in¬ 
patient  physician  services  rendered  by  the  hospital’s 
staff  of  employed  physicians. 


In  addition  to  this  (somewhat  lower)  basic  per 
diem,  however,  the  private  carrier  must  pay  sizeable 
surcharges  for  the  semi-private  rooms  (typically 
double-occupancy  rooms)  occupied  by  their  insured. 
In  1988,  for  example,  the  average  basic  per  diem  rate 
for  private  insurers  was  DM  251  ($  128)  and  the  sur¬ 
charge  for  a  private  room  was  DM  1 16  ($  60). 

The  private  carriers  and  the  Statutory  sickness 
funds  pay  the  same  prices  for  prescription  drugs. 

Administrative  Cost  of 
West  German  Insurance 

The  administrative  cost  of  West  German  health-in¬ 
surance  is  relatively  low. 

For  the  Statutory  sickness  funds,  these  costs 
amount  to  about  4  to  5  percent  of  total  premium 
income.  Although  the  sickness-fund  physician  associa¬ 
tions  who  actually  pay  the  individual  physician  have 
additional  administrative  cost,  the  overall  administra¬ 
tive  cost  of  the  system,  including  the  billing  costs 
borne  by  individual  physicians  and  hospitals,  probably 
lies  substantially  below  the  average  such  leakage  reg¬ 
istered  by  the  complex  American  system. 

The  private  insurance  carriers  distinguish  between 
purely  administrative  costs — about  4.4  percent  of  pre¬ 
mium  income  in  1987  and  probably  comparable  to  the 
number  reported  by  the  Statutory  sickness  funds — and 
the  so-called  “closing  costs”  (Abschlusskosten),  which 
represents  the  marketing  and  administrative  costs  of 
establishing  new  insurance  policies.  In  1987,  these 
closing  costs  amounted  to  about  11.6  percent  of  total 
premium  income.6  It  appears,  then,  that  the  total  loss 
ratio  (payments  to  providers/premium  income)  in  pri¬ 
vate  health  insurance  exceeds  that  under  the  Statutory 
system  by  a  considerable  margin. 


LESSONS  FROM  THE 
WEST  GERMAN  EXPERIENCE 

The  American  health-care  system,  which  relies  on  a 
great  number  of  independent  third-party  payers  for  its 
financing,  faces  problems  not  encountered  by  systems, 
such  as  Canada’s,  in  which  the  flow  of  funds  to  pro- 


6  See  Verband  der  Privaten  Krankenversicherungen  e.V.,  Die  Private 
Krankenversicherung:  Zahlenbericht  1987/1988,  September  1988,  p.54.  Ac¬ 
cording  to  that  annual  report,  the  pure  administrative  costs  in  1987  were  DM 
602  million,  said  to  be  4.33  percent  of  total  premium  income.  The  total  clos¬ 
ing  costs  for  that  year  were  reported  as  DM  1.6  billion,  which  must  therefore 
have  represented  1 1.6  percent  of  total  premium  income. 


11 


viders  is  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  one  single  third 
party,  usually  the  government. 

First,  in  a  multi-carrier  system  the  providers  may 
find  it  easy  to  divide  payers  and  thus  rule  them. 
Second,  if  consumers  are  given  free  choice  among 
competing  insurance  carriers,  a  multi-carrier  system 
can  be  plagued  by  judicious,  adverse-risk  selection, 
and  the  exclusion  of  high-risk,  low-income  families 
from  insurance  coverage  altogether.  The  American 
health  system  furnishes  a  prime  example  of  all  of 
these  tendencies. 

Both  sets  of  problems  have  been  addressed  through 
statutory  constraints  in  the  West  German  health 
system,  although  not  with  complete  success.  Indeed, 
there  are  now  sufficient  stresses  in  the  system  to  have 
triggered  widespread  calls  for  a  fundamental  reform 
of  West  Germany’s  health-insurance  system. 


Amassing  Market  Power  on  the 
Demand  Side 

The  diagrams  in  Figure  4  overleaf  depict  two  dis¬ 
tinct  set  of  relationships  among  the  three  major  actors 
in  health  care:  patients,  providers  and  third-party 
payers. 

The  top  figure  illustrates  the  manner  in  which 
money  flows  from  society  to  the  providers  of  health 
care.  That  flow  now  goes  through  a  myriad  of  inde¬ 
pendent  and  uncoordinated  pipes  of  varying  size. 
Most  of  these  pipes  are  so  small,  relative  to  the  over¬ 
all  money  flow,  that  persons  controlling  their  valves 
cannot  exert  much  influence  over  the  market  for 
health  care.  Should  they  seek  to  constrain  prices,  they 
can  easily  be  threatened  by  providers  with  loss  of 
access  to  health  for  the  insured  covered  by  that 
money  pipe.  It  is  a  system  designed  to  maximize  the 
transfer  of  Gross  National  product  from  the  rest  of 
society  to  the  providers  of  care. 

Indeed,  it  is  a  system  so  constructed  that  it  effec¬ 
tively  shields  most  Americans  from  knowing,  at  any 
time  of  the  year,  precisely  how  much  their  families 
spend  on  health  care.  The  money  flow  from  house¬ 
holds  to  pay  for  uninsured  services,  coinsurance  for 
partially  covered  services,  contributions  to  insurance 
coverage,  and  so  on  is  so  complex  that  it  takes  a  spe¬ 
cial  effort  to  tabulate  it  all  for  one  year. 

It  can  be  argued  that  this  is  precisely  as  it  should 
be,  that  most  other  markets  in  the  economy  also  are 
characterized  by  a  myriad  of  money  pipes  to  the  sup¬ 
pliers.  The  counter-argument  that  has  prevailed  in 


most  modern  societies — certainly  in  West  Germany — 
is  that  the  ethical  dimensions  of  health  care,  and  the 
fact  that  the  bulk  of  health  expenditures  are  ac¬ 
counted  for  by  very  sick,  aching  and  frightened  indi¬ 
viduals  makes  analogies  with  regular  markets  moot 
for  health  care. 


Figure  4  Alternative  Financial  Arrangements 
Between  Patients,  Providers  and  Third-Party 
Payers 


Monopsonistic  Financing 


~ _ 


Most  other  countries  have  therefore  all  but  relieved 
the  individual  patients  from  the  role  of  a  cost-control¬ 
ling  consumer.  Instead  of  conceiving  of  the  health¬ 
care  market  as  a  set  of  economic  transactions  between 
individual  patients  and  providers,  they  have  trans¬ 
ferred  the  economic  facet  of  these  transactions  to  a 
middle  plane  where  prices  are  negotiated  between 
associations  of  third-party  payers  and  association  of 
physicians.  In  other  words,  they  have  concentrated 
the  money  flow  to  providers  into  one  (or  at  most  a 
few)  large  pipes  whose  valves  are  operated  through 
negotiation,  as  is  illustrated  in  the  bottom  panel  of 
Figure  4. 


12 


In  the  Canadian  health  system,  for  example,  there 
really  is  but  one  money  pipe  to  providers  per  prov¬ 
ince.  That  pipe  originates  in  the  provincial  govern¬ 
ment,  which  administers  health  insurance  in  that 
country.  In  West  Germany,  on  the  other  hand,  there 
are  over  a  thousand  pipes  going  from  the  sickness 
funds  or  private  insurance  carriers  to  the  providers. 
The  money  flow  through  these  pipes,  however,  is  co¬ 
ordinated  at  the  level  of  the  state  (Land)  into  all¬ 
payer  systems  which  offers  the  payer  a  degree  of 
market  power  similar  to  that  enjoyed  by  truly  single¬ 
source  payers.  For  that  reason,  it  is  not  inappropriate 
to  think  of  West  Germany’s  health  system  as  effec¬ 
tively  a  single-pipe  system  as  well. 

Every  German  household  knows  what  it  spends  per 
year  for  comprehensive  health  service,  for  that  spend¬ 
ing  can  be  read  off  a  simple  barometer:  the  percent¬ 
age  of  gross-compensation  paid  to  the  sickness  fund, 
or  the  insurance  premium  paid  to  a  private  carrier. 
This  simple  index  is  very  carefully  read  by  the  citi¬ 
zenry,  by  employers  and  by  the  government.  Figure 
5,  taken  directly  from  the  trade  journal  of  the  Local 
Sickness  Funds,  illustrates  this  barometer  graphically. 
The  previously  cited  Health-Care  Reform  Act  of  1988 
was  the  government’s  reaction  to  the  sharp  increase  in 
the  contribution  rate  after  1984.  The  chief  objective 
of  that  Act  has  been  to  stabilize  that  contribution  rate. 

Figure  5  Average  Premium  in  the  Statutory 
Health  Insurance  System 

(PREKVM  AS  PERCENT  OF  GROSS  COMPENSATION) 


*  H 


SOURCE:  AOK  Bundesvertoartd,  "AOK  Bllanz  '88:  GRG  verstaertte  den 
Ausgabenzuwachs,"  DOK  Polrtik,  Praxis,  Recht,  vo).  12,  June  15,  1989,  p.  367. 

The  single-pipe  or  quasi-single-pipe  health-insurance 
systems  prevalent  throughout  Europe  and  in  Canada 
have  certain  advantages  and  drawbacks  that  deserve 
further  comment. 


First,  the  systems  enable  those  who  directly  and  ul¬ 
timately  pay  for  health  care  to  procure  health  services 
at  lower  monetary  transfers  to  provider  per  unit  of 
real  health  service  than  is  paid  under  the  looser 
American  system.  Second,  these  systems  enable  those 
who  control  the  valve  of  the  single  pipe  literally  to 
determine  that  physical  capacity  of  the  health  system. 
They  can  make  favorable  turns  of  the  valve  contin¬ 
gent  upon  regional  health  planning,  as  is  the  case  in 
all  of  these  nations. 

In  short,  then,  the  single-pipe  approach  probably 
more  so  than  any  other  factor  enables  these  countries 
to  allocate  to  health  care  a  much  smaller  slice  of  the 
Gross  National  Product  than  is  being  allocated  in  the 
United  States.  If  Americans  are  unwilling  to  counte¬ 
nance  that  approach  and  prefer  to  continue  with  their 
myriad-pipe  system,  they  are  likely  always  to  pay  more 
for  health  care,  per  unit  of  service  and  overall,  than 
they  otherwise  would. 

But  these  single-pipe  systems  also  have  drawbacks 
that  should  be  acknowledged. 

Clearly,  a  single-pipe  system  is  vulnerable  to  possi¬ 
ble  mistakes  made  by  the  few  who  wrangle  at  the 
single  valve.  Such  a  system  may  allocate  less  to  health 
care  than  the  citizenry  actually  would  like  to  see  allo¬ 
cated,  if  it  had  its  choice,  and  it  may  also  provide  less 
variety  in  health  care  than  the  citizenry  might  want. 

Furthermore,  such  a  system  makes  it  far  more  risky 
for  entrepreneurs  to  venture  their  funds  in  search  of 
new  medical  technology,  because  those  at  the  valve 
may  capriciously  refuse  to  pay  for  that  technology. 

Finally,  from  the  viewpoint  of  providers  single-pipe 
systems  are  clearly  undesirable.  They  manifestly  tend 
to  reduce  the  providers’  income.  There  is  no  reason 
why  normal,  income-seeking  providers  of  health  care 
should  favor  a  system  that  serves  to  shrink  their 
income. 


Avoiding  Adverse-Risk  Selection 

The  term  “adverse-risk  selection”  has  varied  mean¬ 
ings  in  discussions  on  health  policy,  and  it  is  often 
misused.  For  purposes  of  this  discussion,  adverse-risk 
selection  refers  to  situations  in  which  the  distribution 
of  actuarial  risks  among  different  insurance  pools  is 
not  perfectly  matched  by  the  distribution  of  premium 
income  needed  to  cover  those  risks. 

Suppose,  for  example,  that  the  likelihood  of  particu¬ 
lar  levels  of  health  expenditures  for  an  individual 


13 


bZZ 


ILL*  TT: 


mr  ~  5  X  F:;c  ibe  n- 


£T:v_r  peopic  mu  rsrc:  maim  s:  rr.tr  peepe 
-» — ~ —  £  r:-i~i~r-  £Tr  -T.n—~  .  '•  t  -  im  {J-,~vrr  if 

rem  zari 


m 


if'* : 


OSE. 


Tbs rr  -tom  ms  v  cribera  :f  .  *'y  bsstui? 

*  :  t  :  : :  r :  n  :  •  *  r  .  t  :  i_  .*  re  me  ? :  *  • 

-ET2S  enoixi  main  :o±  mm  net  rnre  ftscarzsn 
prscrur  ire  ihe  bsETi  errearmre  he:  sn^c  re  n- 
oirm  b»  he:  cobcr:  fir  £  zr ea  ~mre  penod  Cc 
ar»Tdnsg  re  ixl  r»  ire  mrarer  cf  perKns  rr  ire 
robin  me  -am  ifceam  et  etcofe  predmsr  ei- 

Vi - -  if-vre  ll  — e-  pirp  -n  cf  nwmr  nn~f  EtHEres. 

Ere  of  eomimnsn  et  rsnrct  arm:  m  is:  som  n 
ns  £  -  stees  rrtrcec  e-  si  •BfTr  re  see  n  re  et 
~«ca.iap  aJh  far'  :rtr~  nr. *  Tie  _rmm  -om  be 
nwii^  "TEr*  n  ire  setae  he:  x  mom  art  fcgse 
mncg~3  it  re. eh-  et  nsEm  peaces  n  sioiuma  -nr 
ibsr  nsiTEror  item  ms  aibim  of  nsEr-et*  wrir'~» 
remri  e  cro®-sinsm  jcnErer.  rente  ei  ‘nrfgr 


-  i 


Ax  xesutems  racism  ~rsr  e^eji  miner 
mrjuT  far  jreniuiirae  atmM  xe  saur  n  le  ins  it  m- 
^ryt-rsx.  gfcrtwi,  nwatase  i  nrDcuar  msiraics 
pewf  i  fremmm  neeme  p  miirf  inri  fuJy  n*r  ehi 
ewer  ns  wi  mi  if  rssL 

Two  bcnio  of  ire  ten  -'ire  rrmie  upon  ire  e- 
Tarn  ii-tor  a  im 


srrfTi  pesspaco*  e.  sacr 
pitatn  ccaufered  fax  arc  e>  -  Tl 

QnK  aside  frnrr  ire  ptrobie*  of  adraerse-csk  ver¬ 
ier.  iii’  -  e-  n  mac  cf  ire  -'ire  mwAti  ire  ei- 
my  j  merox  of  “rErress  edMcaDy  im  .  r~„t~  i 
Tm  s  ire  senior  rrmsicr  rc  ire  red  -  mr  rc  ire 
Eir-':  ii- 'Ire  xacos. 


mm  ire  oar-Tsr.iaL  s  dp*it  :ci;^  :rr  rea_ir  me 
i’.  tr  ~ — e.  m  ~;~:c  i  iim  r>:  force  nroaacafiy 
ream  •  reii'-e  n  rear  im  of  ire  remr-me  ::sr  ir- 
caETsr  !'•  ire  hmr  rT  sie  etc 


«  sir  r:my  ►  ateancor?  rfeaxa  bnrxxe  r 
2  £  perfect  iirnssnc  it  im  :me  Tie  r-ven 

new  rm  reEii;*  etc  irr.i-mitre  rii  nenn-  to 
jO-  mine  boaaeaoirs  eti  n  ire  iark_  Ti  nee  *n 


nr 


ire  Ei-tne-rii^  eemt  i.m  £  rr 
Tritf.Tr  itren-ie  eirennr  tie  r-i>tm  m  taiir'.i- 
e!;<  rrmte  ire  i bum  rc-r-Ei  m  neir  'm  ei 
ix  •  t  o;a  li'm  -  mi 


."rrsi  ire  rc-rir  i  nemmi  it  fmnse  ear  it- 
:eicm  itc::-  cannx  re  mnnei  -nr  sier  ui- 
rrar  -_rc  e*  ei  x  ne  ni  'iiiE  nm  aaran  r. 


re  ir  see  wuue  sirs.7  iiit  rr-  se  i  ;i  e  rmcecn .  t 
mmmamet  rarrer  i  n  rr-  trxt  -  mi  m  •  *  rr  tie 


rr*  e  ire  etem*  t  viixum  it  fscs  ran  e  -  lyi 
reer  nnKeerei  far  prre  rr  m  imm  T  m 
ayaadr}  ct  rrficrramc — tie  bei  he  ne  bmjer  it 
nsnEiee  tm-i  sc  rr:  rnm  toons:  ns  it  rer 
rtsEir  smns  im  ire  mtiem  ■  i  wminrr  r-sr  »ul 
camp — fits  e  max  joint  of  acr-ene  -i.  t  e  et 


An -  stic  rst  jeenim  it  mine,  m  ensnare  tun 
m  ire  ncirsri  see  absr  nm  tar<s  line  nsers' 
ram  n  rexsn  ne  rra-m  it  tier  rr err  ten  rr  't- 
spmae  n  mn;»  reitmren  iiwi  ni  r  panmu 
Ir  rrxr  '/nr  for  mme  laret.  £  2D>enmear  n- 
aomeei  he  x  t-TI  n;  £  vomer  if  ’  X  jest 
let  rremet  n  line  r//r — tx  ne 
ntiiti — Em  nnaDee  oErren  net  ieet  :i  ttrol  e 
he  mnerernnei  rrstnnrr  m-n  rci'iini  voise 


T  ncii'.a?;  ne  siitresi  'm  fit  ncoiKtr-  rr- 
trx  sir.  Tstheoi  m  reet  ccaaoed  rn  /xewi 
ei i  or  snruin-rretn  Tre-n*  m  -i men  nx  g  nese 
typcalj  rar-e  zad  £  mure  f  et;-  ejxx  m>  me 
it  £  isv  .< '•  0  rnm  aonfongx  a  mtm-m  -  oncers 
i£ii  £  -tier  mure  amxx  r  •  0  rnm  eoi  Snmnt 
r  mi  E  .sr  ire  If  mrceaur  or  it  if  ne  nn_maic 
-  re.  es  air  nconwr*  necptri  of  ne  Vxitoqi 
fr* Treat,  brr.  rm  r.t*  tear,  ttuesr  •  i<  tori,  rsre 
sr.m  erM  z; -ssoitr  v*  mm  me:  a  r>im.x> 
£•  Erne  x  re  ',msi  Vaca  A.  *xmf>  i-se  :  x- 
siraoee  nais.  fit  szatrrpe.  "  nx  om  ne  m  e  mm 
i.£:e  o’  x%:ri'e i  reaef  it  em  -.ret*  i «dx  *z>/ 
lies'  rtsrx.  nMi  v:  :e  xe  -/Ime  i  ei cmtE  ru 

-  xom  if  E*e  xw'*tx  Oi  i<  .*  itsEisr  ' 'selerx 
x  ms  'soiem  nesr  it-  ttei  ev,  e's  rr  air  t//»  „•> 
itxi  x  rase  ixrx  E"etet:  re  rr  ~//»  'mxrn  *e 
het  a  -/irrm  x  ire  'tee^v-'oeelt^  Tmsi  Vms* 
ose  x-xjhx  E-iie  mem.s'  Axil  ei  e.'seI;  yxsi  trerx 
mtrmxr  snmns  csrra&I  o>  mere — bt  II  x  a 


'  1/  snur-Jt  ~  2i  "a EraacaL-.'  lar’  :icr^  wjuit  k  <n 

a£n»«aBCR  far  stcarsarrrar:  ^ 

11  n  e.  no.-’  jar  --ar  tnt  ^jns-ean  luincri  -/  nnir^r".  oEaist 

jacs  »  rraut  aasner;  tE  mrair  c  t  nairms'tSR  io>etn|  jancaugi. 


1  'Jl.Wjnu3t;  aie  «vi.ua*»*:  •yJr>fc'  >  wiaiisr  '.u<!  ir-ifc  ‘j<  Wf,jxsr.; 

ASA  '■  >'  "S ' ‘ -C:i^  .■  rju.rv:  i  U  J  ?.  *SJ>.  w'S  V>'  V>e 

v-sait;  'uaniv_‘  v  »rj»  -j-  ///  orji  t^yr  '&«>.•  >v**'su  ‘.-vr.* 

'J*  x-_.fr,  aiC  .-xtii/i-r  niC  vj  sa*._-«rjy» 

ir-mmmt  n  tut  ttsa'in;  j>ur>t 


non-transferable  old-age  reserve  that  effectively  locks 
an  insured  into  a  particular  private  carrier  for  life. 


Threats  to  the  Principle  of  Solidarity 

Not  surprisingly,  this  approach  to  eliminate  ad¬ 
verse-risk  selection  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  effect  a 
redistribution  of  income  through  the  Statutory  sys¬ 
tem’s  premium  structure  has  led  to  considerable  strain 
within  the  system.  Because  the  individual  sickness 
fund  is  empowered  to  levy  whatever  payroll-tax  is 
necessary  to  cover  the  risk-mix  of  its  own  members, 
these  taxes  vary  widely  among  the  funds.  Table  3  il¬ 
lustrates  this  phenomenon  with  the  most  recent  data. 
It  is  impossible  to  defend  these  highly  different  pay- 
roll-tax  rates  with  any  appeal  to  social  equity,  and  one 
must  wonder  why  these  differentials  have  not  led  to  a 
more  open  revolt  among  the  insured  and  their  em¬ 
ployers  alike.  But  that  revolt  is  starting. 


Table  3  Variance  in  the  Payroll-Tax  Rate  Across 
West  German  Sickness  Funds,  1988 


Type  of  Fund 

Payroll-Tax  Rates  * 

Range 

Average 

Local  Sickness  Funds . 

10.8-16.0% 

13.5% 

Company-based  Funds . 

7.5-15.0% 

11.5% 

Craft-based  Funds . 

9.8-15.6% 

12.8% 

Substitute  Funds: 

—blue  collar . 

10.2-14.6% 

11.9% 

—white  collar . 

18.8-12.9% 

12.7% 

All  Statutory  Funds . 

7.5-16.0% 

12.9% 

*  Employer’s  and  employees’s  contribution  to  sickness  fund,  as  a  percentage  of 
gross  compensation  (including  fringes). 


SOURCE:  Guntram  Bauer  and  Franz  Schoenhofen,  “Risikostrukturen  und  Beitrags- 
satunterschiede  in  der  GKV,”  DieOrtskrankenskasse,  vol.  22,  November  15,  1988, 
Table  1,  p.  650. 

Round  One  in  that  revolt  is  the  increasing  tendency 
among  large  business  firms  to  take  their  employees 
out  of  high-premium  sickness  funds  and  to  fold  them 
instead  into  newly  established  company-based  sickness 
funds  (Betriebskrankenkassen)  whose  actuarial  health¬ 
care  costs  may  be  lower.  As  Table  3  shows,  such  a 
switch  might  yield  these  companies  substantial  sav¬ 
ings,  at  least  in  the  short  run,  while  their  fund 
members  are  still  young.  Naturally,  this  move  is  vig¬ 
orously  opposed  by  the  other  funds  in  the  system, 
particularly  by  the  Local  Sickness  Funds  that  cover  a 
demonstrably  higher  average  morbidity. 

The  Local  Sickness  Funds  have  entered  the  fray 
from  another  comer.  They  would  like  to  see  legisla¬ 
tion  mandating  inter-fund  financial  transfers  to  com¬ 
pensate  for  differences  in  the  risk  borne  by  individual 


funds.  Such  transfers  are  already  being  made  in  some 
states  within  particular  types  of  sickness  funds  (for  ex¬ 
ample,  within  the  company-based  funds),  but  not  yet 
across  types  of  funds. 

Although  the  Local  Sickness  Funds  do  have  a  le¬ 
gitimate  point,  their  plea  is  opposed  by  other  funds  in 
the  system  on  the  ground  that,  pushed  to  its  logical 
conclusion,  the  policy  would  convert  the  Statutory 
Health  Insurance  system  into  one  single,  national 
fund,  a  Universalkasse  with  one  level  of  payroll  tax 
and  one  benefit  package  for  all  members.  Such  a 
result,  although  perfectly  equitable  on  its  face,  would 
make  the  Statutory  system  resemble  more  and  more  a 
fully  government-financed  system,  such  as  Canada’s. 

Yet  another  attack  on  the  present  system  comes 
from  West  Germany’s  neoclassical  economists  who, 
like  their  colleagues  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic, 
regard  as  the  only  fair  and  efficient  health-insurance 
system  one  priced  strictly  on  actuarial  principles  and 
one  offering  every  citizen  the  widest  conceivable 
choice  among  competing  funds.  Neoclassical  econo¬ 
mists  believe  that  governmental  paternalism  should 
not  override  individual  myopia  and  that  the  indi¬ 
vidual  should  be  made  to  suffer  the  consequences  of 
his  or  her  myopia.  Neoclassical  economists  also  be¬ 
lieve  that  health  insurance  premiums  are  not  a  proper 
vehicle  for  the  redistribution  of  income — that  if  soci¬ 
ety  wishes  to  assist  poor  and  sickly  citizens,  it  should 
do  so  with  taxes  and  cash  transfers  (or,  at  most, 
vouchers). 

The  West  German  government  plans  to  arbitrate 
the  emerging  fight  over  West  Germany’s  health  insur¬ 
ance  system  with  legislation  scheduled  for  1992.  Con¬ 
siderable  public  debate  will  precede  that  legislation.  If 
the  philosophy  of  the  Local  Sickness  Funds  were  to 
prevail,  the  West  German  health-insurance  system 
would  move  substantially  toward  a  government-fi¬ 
nanced  system  on  the  Canadian  model.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  the  neoclassical  school  of  thought  were  to 
prevail,  the  system  would  abandon  the  Principle  of 
Solidarity  altogether  and  become  more  like  the  Ameri¬ 
can  health  system.  The  status  quo  is  unlikely  to  be 
tenable  over  the  long  run. 

West  Germans,  however,  would  be  unlikely  to 
move  toward  the  American  health-insurance  model 
which  is  decried,  throughout  Europe,  as  not  only 
wasteful,  but  also  grossly  inequitable.  A  move  to¬ 
wards  the  Canadian  model  probably  would  be  more 
palatable  to  West  Germans  unless,  as  seems  more 
likely,  the  system  can  evolve  towards  a  more  work¬ 
able  middle  ground.  One  such  compromise  might  be  a 


15 


model  akin  to  the  highly  regulated  pluralism  advo¬ 
cated  by  Enthoven  and  Kronick. 1 0 

An  alternative  compromise  might  be  to  mandate 
upon  the  system  more  extensive  inter-fund  redistribu¬ 
tions  of  premium  income  and  to  encourage  more  ex¬ 
tensive  emigration  from  the  Statutory  system  towards 
the  private-health  insurance  sector.  That  approach 
would  preserve  the  structured  health-insurance  system 
(die  gegliederte  Kran/cenversicherung)  that,  according  to 
most  West  Germans,  has  served  the  country  well  for 
over  a  century. 

A  basic  lesson  Americans  can  draw  from  the  West 
German  health  experience  is  that  it  is  possible  to  pro¬ 
vide  universal  access  to  health  insurance — and  to 
needed  health  care — without  having  the  financing  for 
such  a  system  flow  through  the  public  budget. 


DIRECT  HEALTH-CARE  EXPENDITURES  PER  CAPITA 

ADJUSTED  FOR  GENERAL-PRICE  INFLATION 


At  the  same  time,  the  West  German  experience  il¬ 
lustrates  that  it  is  extremely  difficult,  and  probably 
impossible,  to  maintain  an  unregulated,  pluralistic, 
competitive  health-insurance  system  that  avoids  ad¬ 
verse-risk  selection  and,  at  the  same  time,  maintains 
horizontal  equity  in  the  financing  and  distribution  of 
health  care. 

The  more  freedom  of  choice  is  granted  to  those 
who  purchase  health  insurance  from  a  multitude  of 
competing  insurance  carriers,  the  more  opportunities 
there  are  for  both  the  insured  and  the  carriers  to  sort 
people  into  distinct  risk  classes,  and  the  more  inequi¬ 
table  will  the  distribution  of  health  care  and  its  financ¬ 
ing,  unless  society  were  willing  to  subsidize  the 
health-insurance  premiums  of  high-risk,  low-income 
persons  with  tax-financed  subsidies. 


SOURCES  OF  FUNDS 


10  Alain  Enthoven  and  Richard  Kronick,  “A  Consumer-Choice  Health 
Plan  for  the  1990s,”  The  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine,  Vol.  320,  January 
5,  1989,  pp.  29-37  and  vol.  320,  January  12,  1989,  pp.  94-101. 


16 


USES  OF  FUNDS 


CL 

Q 

0 

ll 

O 


UJ 

O 


CE 

UJ 

0. 


DIRECT  HEALTH-CARE  EXPENDITURES,  1975-86 
AS  A  PERCENT  OF  GROSS  DOMESTIC  PRODUCT 


SOURCES  AND  REFERENCES 


AOK  Bundesverband,  “AOK  Bilanz  ’88:  GRG  verstaerkte  den 
Ausgabenzuwachs,”  DOK  Politik,  Praxis,  Recht,  vol.  12,  June  15,  1989;  pp. 
366-72. 

Bauer,  Guntram  and  Schoenhofen,  Franz,  “Risikostrukturen  und 
Beitragsunterschiede  in  der  GKV,”  Die  Ortskranken-kasse,  vol.  22,  November 
15,  1988;  pp.  649-55. 

Levit,  Katherine  R.  and  Freeland,  Mark  S.,  “National  Medical  Spending," 
Health  Affairs,  vol.  7,  Winter,  1988,  pp.  124-36. 

Reinhardt,  Uwe  E.  Financing  the  Hospital  The  Experience  Abroad,  Report 
submitted  to  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  July,  1984. 

Reinhardt,  Uwe  E.,  “The  Compensation  of  Physicians:  Approaches  used  in 
Foreign  Countries,”  Quality  Review  Bulletin,  vol.  11,  December,  1985. 


Reiners,  Hartmut,  Ordnungspolitik  im  Gesundheitswesen,  Bonn,  West  Ger¬ 
many:  Wissenschaftliches  Institut  der  Ortskrankenkassen,  WIDO-Materialien 
No.  30,  1987. 

Sachverstaendigenrat  fuer  die  Konzertierte  Aktion  im  Gesundheitswesen, 
Medizinische  und  Oekonomische  Orientierung  Jahresgutachten  1988,  Baden- 
Baden,  West  Germany:  Nomos  Verlagsgesellschaft,  1988. 

Schneider,  Markus,  Sommer,  Juerg  and  Keceki,  Aynur,  Gesundheitssyteme 
im  International  Vergleich,  Augsburg,  West  Germany:  BASYS  GmbH, 
1987. 

Verband  der  privaten  Krankenversicherungen  e.V.,  Die  Private 
Krankenversicherung,  Zahlenbericht  1987/1988. 


17 


EUROPE’S  DECENTRALIZED  AND  SEMI-PRIVATE 

HEALTH  INSURANCE 


William  A.  Glaser  * 


OVERVIEW 

Several  European  countries  have  the  health  insur¬ 
ance  arrangements  most  relevant  for  reform  in  the 
United  States.  Their  characteristics  are: 

•  Administration  of  finance  by  private  health  insur¬ 
ance  carriers.  These  are  mutual  aid  societies  or 
mutual  insurance  companies.  Some  have  existed 
for  centuries  and  antedate  obligatory  health  insur¬ 
ance  laws.  They  jealously  guard  their  independ¬ 
ence  from  government. 

•  These  carriers  compete  for  members  and  for 
prestige. 

•  Many  citizens — all,  in  some  countries — have  free¬ 
dom  of  choice  among  carriers. 

•  Some  citizens — many,  in  some  countries — are  free 
to  self-insure  completely. 

•  Government’s  role  is  limited.  It  does  not  dictate. 
A  law  of  Parliament  specifies  the  minimum  bene¬ 
fits  for  subscribers.  Parliament  levies  payroll 
taxes  on  employers  and  workers,  since  health 
insurance  is  part  of  the  social  security  system. 
Government  may  subsidize  the  health  insurance 
accounts  from  general  revenue.  Several  Ministries 
set  guidelines  to  contain  costs  within  the  fiscal 
capacity  of  the  system. 

•  Mechanisms  exist  to  stabilize  costs. 

•  The  working  rules  and  fees  of  doctors  are  negoti¬ 
ated  between  the  medical  association  and  the 
health  insurance  carriers.  These  matters  are  never 
imposed  on  doctors  unilaterally  by  government. 

•  All  big  decisions  are  made  through  elaborate  ne¬ 
gotiations  and  through  compromise.  The  govern¬ 
ments  themselves  are  ruled  by  coalition  Cabinets, 
whose  political  parties  differ  in  preferences  about 
social  insurance  and  about  health  care  finance. 


*  Report  prepared  by  William  A.  Glaser,  Department  of  Health  Services 
Management.  Graduate  School  of  Management,  New  School  for  Social  Re¬ 
search.  New  York,  New  York,  September  1989. 


Germany 

Like  the  United  States  and  Switzerland,  it  has  a 
federal  system  of  government.  General  frameworks 
are  enacted  by  the  national  Parliament  and  by  the  na¬ 
tional  Ministries,  but  the  health  insurance  carriers  and 
providers  are  organized  distinctly  in  each  province, 
producing  diversity  in  levels  of  finance  and  in  some 
administrative  implementation. 

When  first  enacted  a  century  ago,  the  law  required 
certain  occupational  groups  to  join  health  insurance 
funds,  it  levied  payroll  taxes  on  the  workers  and  their 
employers,  and  it  listed  benefits  that  the  carriers  must 
provide.  Additional  occupations  were  added  to  oblig¬ 
atory  coverage  in  successive  amendments  to  the  law. 
The  payroll  taxes  suffice  to  cover  both  the  worker 
and  his/her  family.  But  obligatory  coverage  never 
became  universal:  one-fifth  of  the  population  over  an 
earnings  threshold  can  opt  out  completely. 

Once  Germany  had  thousands  of  health  insurance 
carriers  of  varying  sizes.  Most  were  for  workers  in  in¬ 
dividual  factories.  Some  enlisted  all  craftsmen  (such  as 
the  butchers)  in  a  city.  Others  enlisted  all  members  of 
an  industry  (such  as  seamen)  throughout  the  country. 
In  each  area  there  has  been  a  general  fund  for  anyone 
whose  occupation  does  not  assign  him  automatically 
to  one  of  the  occupationally  based  carriers.  Besides  all 
these,  there  are  “substitute”  funds  for  persons  over  an 
earnings  threshold  but  not  yet  at  the  level  where  they 
are  exempt  from  obligatory  coverage.  The  number  of 
carriers  has  greatly  diminished,  primarily  because  of 
bankruptcies  and  mergers  among  the  workplace 
funds. 

Besides  these  social  funds  that  receive  and  use  pay¬ 
roll  taxes,  Germany  has  private  insurance  companies. 
If  someone’s  income  exceeds  the  membership  ceiling, 
he  is  exempt  from  the  social  insurance  coverage  but 


19 


may  buy  his  health  insurance  from  these  commercial 
carriers  voluntarily. 


The  Netherlands 

Until  reforms  scheduled  for  the  early  1990’s,  Hol¬ 
land  never  had  universal  obligatory  coverage.  All 
persons  below  an  earnings  ceiling  were  required  to 
join  a  social  insurance  carrier,  financed  by  payroll 
taxes  and  government  subsidies.  Everyone  above  that 
ceiling  had  to  seek  private  commercial  insurance.  The 
pensioners  could  choose  either  sector,  usually  were 
priced  out  of  the  private  policies,  and  usually  rejoined 
the  social  insurance  carriers.  After  1990,  every¬ 
one  will  be  covered  by  obligatory  statutory  health 
insurance. 

In  the  past,  Holland  had  hundreds  of  small  local 
social  insurance  funds.  Some  were  created  by  doctors, 
some  by  trade  unions,  some  by  employers,  others  by 
Catholic  associations.  Any  subscriber  could  choose 
any  carrier.  The  social  insurance  funds  steadily 
merged,  and  now  usually  there  is  only  one  in  each  lo¬ 
cality.  All  the  separate  federation  offices  have  united 
into  one  national  office  that  represents  all  carriers. 

In  addition,  there  are  several  dozen  nationwide 
mutual  insurance  companies  that  once  specialized  in 
selling  policies  to  the  persons  over  the  earnings  ceil¬ 
ing.  In  the  1990’s,  when  the  entire  population  is  cov¬ 
ered  by  statutory  health  insurance,  the  commercial 
carriers  will  serve  this  market  too.  Therefore,  social 
insurance  will  again  have  competing  carriers. 


Switzerland 

The  country  has  never  enacted  nationwide  obliga¬ 
tory  health  insurance.  A  few  cantons  require  cover¬ 
age  by  persons  under  an  earnings  ceiling,  but  that  is 
all.  Therefore,  most  of  the  population  can  opt  out  and 
self-insure. 

Once  Switzerland  had  over  one  thousand  health  in¬ 
surance  carriers,  but  mergers  have  reduced  the  num¬ 
bers  to  less  than  four  hundred.  They  are  nonprofit 
mutual  insurance  companies  or  mutual  aid  societies. 
Some  are  nationwide,  others  are  regional.  Anyone  can 
choose  any  carrier. 

Because  health  insurance  is  not  part  of  the  national 
government’s  social  security  system,  the  carrier’s  rev¬ 
enue  does  not  consist  of  percentage-of-earnings  pay¬ 
roll  taxes.  Each  individual  subscriber  pays  a  monthly 
premium  calculated  by  age  and  sex  at  time  of  first 


enrollment.  There  are  no  family  policies.  Because  em¬ 
ployers  contribute  no  payroll  taxes,  the  national  gov¬ 
ernment  makes  up  the  shortfall  by  contributing  grants 
from  general  revenue.  The  subsidies  vary  by  the 
number,  age,  and  sex  of  each  carrier’s  subscribers.  As 
a  condition  for  receiving  the  grants,  the  carrier  must 
follow  rules  about  minimum  benefits  and  maximum 
patient  cost-sharing.  The  grants  induce  nearly  every 
citizen  to  join,  and  they  standardize  the  policies  of  the 
carriers.  Through  private  and  voluntary  methods, 
Switzerland  achieves  the  same  results  as  those  in 
countries  with  obligatory  health  insurance. 

Once  the  elderly,  the  very  poor,  and  the  unem¬ 
ployed  were  not  covered  by  statutory  or  by  voluntary 
health  insurance.  They  were  aided  by  municipal  wel¬ 
fare  offices — i.e.,  the  European  counterpart  of  Medi¬ 
caid — or  they  became  bad  debts  in  public  hospitals. 
But  now  in  all  three  countries,  all  the  elderly,  poor, 
and  unemployed  are  obligatory  enrollees  in  social  in¬ 
surance  funds.  The  voluntary  market  consists  of  upper 
income  people  who  can  fend  for  themselves. 

Patterns  of  coverage  in  1985 — shortly  before  Hol¬ 
land  adopted  universal  statutory  coverage — were: 


Basic  acute-care  coverage 

West 

Germany 

Holland 

Switzer¬ 

land 

Social  insurance  funds: 

Obligatory  by  law . 

79% 

51% 

25% 

Voluntary . 

12 

19 

71 

Private  insurance  companies . 

7 

30 

2 

Not  insured . 

2 

0.1 

2 

100% 

100% 

100% 

(Total  population  in  millions) 

(61) 

(14) 

(6.4) 

CHOICE  AND  COMPETITION 

Any  widespread  statutory  program  inevitably  has 
many  standard  features.  Minimum  benefits  are  univer¬ 
sal.  The  payroll  tax  rate  is  usually  (not  always)  identi¬ 
cal  for  all  carriers  and  all  subscribers.  Often  patient 
cost-sharing  rules  and  provider  balance-billing  rules 
are  universal.  Since  carriers  use  tax  money  and  (often) 
public  subsidies,  all  must  accept  certain  rules  of  finan¬ 
cial  management.  Usually  carriers  under  tax-supported 
social  insurance  must  be  nonprofit. 


Among  Social  Insurance  Carriers 

Nevertheless,  the  obligatory  subscriber  in  all  three 
of  the  countries  can  choose  among  the  carriers  for  his 


20 


basic  statutory  coverage.  And  the  carriers  can  com¬ 
pete  for  the  largest  numbers  of  the  most  desirable 
subscribers. 

Where  they  have  a  choice,  subscribers  prefer  social 
insurance  carriers  with  the  following  characteristics: 

•  More  benefits  without  asking  for  higher  payroll 
taxes  (in  countries  with  variable  payroll  taxes, 
like  Germany);  without  asking  for  supplementary 
premiums  (in  countries  with  fixed  payroll  taxes, 
like  Holland);  and  without  asking  for  higher  pre¬ 
miums  (in  countries  with  a  variable  premium 
system,  like  Switzerland). 

•  Better  services  for  patients,  such  as  responsive  in¬ 
formation  staffs,  health  publications,  and  fast 
processing  of  claims. 

•  Attractive  public  image. 

A  social  insurance  carrier  in  such  a  competitive 
market  seeks  subscribers  who  will  yield  financial  sur¬ 
pluses:  higher  incomes  and  higher  payroll  tax  yields  in 
countries  with  payroll  taxes  (like  Germany  and  Hol¬ 
land);  and  lower  morbidity.  They  try  to  attract  such 
desirable  subscribers  by  various  appeals: 

•  More  benefits  without  charging  higher  premiums: 
higher  allowances  for  private  hospital  rooms; 
more  generous  dental  coverage;  lower  cost-shar¬ 
ing  (for  dentistry,  drugs,  etc.)  if  this  is  allowed 
under  the  law;  inducing  better  service  by  doctors 
by  offering  higher  fees  (a  method  used  only  by 
the  “substitute”  carriers  Ersatzkassen  in  Germany 
because  of  a  loophole  in  the  system  of  negotiat¬ 
ing  fees). 

•  Lower  payroll  taxes  and  premiums  in  countries 
where  the  rates  are  flexible  (Germany  and  Swit¬ 
zerland).  It  is  rarely  done  to  attract  subscribers  in 
the  social  insurance  market,  since  the  carriers 
prefer  to  offer  better  benefits. 

•  Image  and  prestige.  Used  by  the  Ersatzkassen  of 
Germany  to  attract  the  white-collar  workers  and 
managers  who  otherwise  could  choose  the  work¬ 
place  or  regional  carriers  traditionally  identified 
with  labor.  In  the  past  in  Holland  and  in  Belgium 
today,  some  mutual  assistance  funds  are  associ¬ 
ated  with  the  Catholic  Church  and  the  Socialist 
Party,  and  they  appeal  to  Catholics  and  socialists. 

•  Better  services  for  subscribers  are  a  very 
common  marketing  method. 

While  subscriber  choice  and  carrier  competition 
exist  in  the  social  insurance  market,  all-out  competi¬ 
tion  is  limited  for  several  reasons.  (In  contrast,  greater 
competition  is  possible  in  the  private  health  insurance 
market,  to  be  described  in  later  paragraphs.) 


•  The  law  guarantees  certain  benefits  for  all  per¬ 
sons.  While  competing  carriers  can  add  benefits, 
they  cannot  reduce  them,  they  cannot  offer  poli¬ 
cies  with  lower  premiums  for  fewer  benefits. 
Usually  the  law  prevents  them  from  offering  poli¬ 
cies  with  lower  premiums  in  return  for  higher  pa¬ 
tient  cost-sharing. 

•  Social  insurance  carriers  need  to  earn  money 
over  the  actuarial  costs  of  the  workers  paying 
payroll  taxes  and  premiums.  They  are  obligated 
to  accept  pensioners,  the  poor,  and  the  un¬ 
employed  whose  payments  to  the  carrier  are 
much  lower  than  their  costs.  Therefore, 
social  insurance  financing  must  be  redistributive. 
The  carriers  cannot  compete  for  subscribers  by 
price-cutting  that  lowers  revenue. 

•  Some  features  of  administration  and  finance  lock 
the  subscriber  into  one  carrier  and  inhibit  free 
choice  and  carrier  competition.  For  example, 
Swiss  social  insurance  carriers  charge  age-of- 
entry  lifetime  premiums  that  increase  as  the 
subscriber  ages.  Level  premiums  cover  lifetime 
actuarial  costs  by  overcharging  the  subscriber 
while  he  is  young  and  undercharging  him  while 
he  is  old.  Carriers  compete  by  offering  different 
rates  for  the  same  age  of  entry.  If  a  subscriber 
wishes  to  change  carriers,  he  joins  the  new  one  at 
the  starting  rate  for  his  current  age,  which  prob¬ 
ably  exceeds  the  rate  he  currently  pays  his  origi¬ 
nal  carrier.  Consequently,  he  usually  hesitates  to 
change.  The  Swiss  social  insurance  market  there¬ 
fore  has  much  less  competition  and  fewer  trans¬ 
fers  than  one  might  expect.  The  lifetime  premium 
system  has  the  important  advantage  of  protecting 
persons  from  prohibitive  increases  in  old  age. 

Competing  social  insurance  carriers  would  prefer  to 
avoid  attracting  subscribers  who  will  cause  deficits: 
persons  with  lower  incomes  and  lower  payments 
(such  as  the  pensioners  and  the  poor);  and  persons 
with  higher  morbidity.  However,  in  practice  the  car¬ 
riers  can  only  woo  the  better  risks,  not  screen  out  the 
less  healthy  persons.  These  are  social  security  pro¬ 
grams  designed  to  protect  the  vulnerable  by  redis¬ 
tributive  financing,  and  the  carriers  are  expected  to 
fulfill  their  duties.  They  cannot  reject  any  applicant 
under  social  insurance,  no  matter  how  poor  a  risk, 
and  they  can  do  no  medical  underwriting  of  rates. 
The  carriers  take  the  long  view:  they  woo  young  sub¬ 
scribers  who  yield  financial  surpluses,  they  use  mar¬ 
keting  appeals  to  keep  these  subscribers  during  their 
productive  work  years,  and  they  cover  these  sub¬ 
scribers’  high  costs  in  old  age.  The  strategy  assumes  a 
steady  recruitment  of  young  new  subscribers.  If  the 
carrier’s  portfolio  ages — as  in  the  case  of  funds  with 
blue  collar  workers  in  declining  industries  in  Ger- 


21 


many  now  and  in  Holland  in  the  past — the  carriers 
can  go  bankrupt. 


Between  Social  Insurance  Carriers  and 
Private  Insurance  Companies 

Over  an  earnings  ceiling  in  Germany  today  and  in 
Holland  until  the  1990’s,  certain  classes  of  subscribers 
have  had  to  buy  statutory  health  insurance  but  may 
buy  it  from  either  the  social  funds  or  the  private  com¬ 
panies.  Under  either  arrangement,  the  subscriber  and 
his  employer  pay  the  standard  payroll  taxes. 

As  in  the  aforementioned  choices  among  social  in¬ 
surance  funds,  the  subscriber  prefers  a  carrier  that 
offers  more  benefits,  better  services,  and  an  attractive 
public  image.  In  addition,  this  category  of  persons 
prefers  carriers  that  charge  lower  premiums,  even  if 
the  benefit  package  is  thinner.  These  people  are 
younger,  healthier,  less  at  risk,  and  reluctant  to  pay 
extra  cash  to  cover  the  costs  of  the  worst  risks. 

The  private  carriers  appeal  to  this  group  by  offer¬ 
ing  lower  payroll  taxes  (or  premiums)  and/or  better 
benefits.  They  select  preferred  risks  and  have  fewer 
expensive  subscribers  than  the  social  insurance  funds 
do. 

This  competition  and  the  preferred  risk  selection 
arouse  protests  by  the  social  insurance  carriers  and  by 
the  political  Left:  the  social  carriers  are  left  with  the 
elderly  and  other  bad  risks,  and  they  run  deficits;  the 
private  carriers  do  not  share  the  burden  of  a  sup¬ 
posedly  universal  social  program;  the  taxpayer  should 
not  be  forced  to  rescue  the  social  insurance  funds 
with  subsidies,  while  the  private  carriers  waste 
money,  say  the  critics.  Whether  reforms  take  place 
depends — like  many  other  health  policies — on  the  po¬ 
litical  decisions  of  the  government-of-the-day: 

•  The  Center-Right  Cabinet  in  The  Netherlands 
during  the  1980’s  amended  the  health  insurance 
law  and  required  the  private  health  insurance 
carriers  to  keep  their  members  after  retirement. 
These  companies  can  no  longer  force  the  elderly 
to  transfer  back  to  the  overburdened  and  subsi¬ 
dized  social  insurance  carriers,  by  charging  them 
very  high  age-related  premiums. 

•  In  order  to  avoid  punitive  actions,  the  association 
of  private  health  insurance  funds  in  Holland  has 
given  the  association  of  social  insurance  carriers 
several  lump  sums  to  cover  the  bad  risks  and  el¬ 
derly  subscribers  that  the  private  carriers  avoid 
recruiting  and  once  avoided  keeping. 

•  All  the  Dutch  political  parties  agreed  to  amend 
the  law  in  the  late  1980’s,  making  statutory  health 


insurance  universal.  Holland  therefore  ceases  to 
be  the  last  European  country  with  a  large  un¬ 
regulated  private  market,  with  benefits  and  pre¬ 
miums  selected  by  the  subscribers  according  to 
their  own  self-interest.  Every  Dutch  citizen  is 
now  covered  by  payroll  taxes,  every  social  insur¬ 
ance  fund  and  all  private  companies  become  car¬ 
riers  for  basic  benefits,  every  citizen  has  free 
choice  of  carrier,  preferred  risk  selection  by  a 
carrier  is  banned,  and  the  extra  cash  collected 
from  the  better  paid  persons  covers  the  extra 
costs  of  the  elderly  and  of  the  bad  risks. 

•  None  of  these  remedial  measures  have  been 
adopted  in  Germany.  Healthier  risks  steadily  and 
voluntarily  move  to  the  “substitute”  funds 
( Ersatzkassen )  from  the  workplace  funds 

(Betriebskrankenkassen)  and  from  the  regional 
funds  (Ortskrankenkassen).  As  a  result,  many 
workplace  funds  run  deficits  and  close;  and  the 
regional  funds  must  charge  higher  payroll  taxes 
and  offer  lower  benefits  than  the  substitute  funds 
do.  Legislative  reform  is  blocked  by  the  fact  that 
the  political  party  allied  with  the  substitute  funds 
(the  Free  Democratic  Party)  has  been  part  of 
every  coalition  government  in  the  national  and 
most  provincial  governments  for  twenty  years. 


Among  Private  Insurance  Companies 

In  these  arrangements,  one  type  of  private  market 
sells  basic  coverage  to  the  upper  income  persons 
exempt  from  obligatory  insurance,  as  in  Germany 
today  and  in  Holland  until  the  1990’s.  (Such  a  sepa¬ 
rate  private  market  for  basic  coverage  does  not  exist 
in  Switzerland,  since  all  Swiss  get  basic  benefits — 
obligatorily  or  voluntarily — from  the  mainstream  car¬ 
riers  who  receive  grants  from  government.)  Another 
type  of  private  market  sells  voluntary  supplementary 
policies  for  those  benefits  not  provided  by  statutory 
social  insurance.  It  exists  in  all  European  countries, 
will  survive  in  The  Netherlands,  is  targeted  at  all  per¬ 
sons,  covers  many  people  in  some  countries  (such  as 
France),  but  is  purchased  only  by  the  wealthy  in  most 
countries. 

Both  of  these  private  markets  are  very  competitive, 
and  subscribers  do  considerable  shopping.  Since  these 
markets  are  not  part  of  social  insurance  financed  by 
payroll  taxes  and  public  subsidies,  the  subscriber  pays 
his  own  cash.  He  may  get  a  voluntary  subsidy  from 
his  employer,  but  private  employer  group  insurance — 
common  in  the  United  States  and  in  private  insurance 
in  Great  Britain — is  rare  in  Europe.  Subscribers  prefer 
private  policies  with  the  following  characteristics: 


22 


•  Lower  premiums.  Since  they  are  affluent,  they 
can  afford  higher  cost-sharing  (in  return  for 
lower  premiums)  and  can  afford  to  self-insure  for 
routine  services  (such  as  general  practice  and 
pharmaceuticals). 

•  Adequate  coverage  of  big  risks. 

•  Coverage  of  specialists’  fees.  The  patient  is  then 
guaranteed  personal  attention  from  the  chief  of 
service  when  he  is  hospitalized.  Social  insurance 
covers  hospitalization  in  general  and  care  by  the 
entire  medical  staff. 

•  Some  new  benefits  attract  subscribers,  such  as 
dentistry  and  long-term  care. 

The  private  insurance  companies  compete  with  the 
following  offers: 

•  Lower  premiums,  particularly  aimed  at  the 
young.  Bursts  of  competitive  price-cutting  occur, 
preventing  established  private  insurers  from  com¬ 
munity  rating  and  eliminating  extra  cash  to  cover 
the  elderly  redistributively. 

•  A  great  variety  of  options,  particularly  policies 
with  schedules  of  lower  premiums  for  greater  pa¬ 
tient  cost-sharing. 

•  Limited  policies  that  omit  general  practice. 

•  Development  of  policies  and  literature  making 
each  company’s  offers  appear  unique  and  hinder¬ 
ing  consumers’  comparisons  among  companies. 

•  Some  benefits  exceeding  those  of  other  compa¬ 
nies,  such  as  more  generous  coverage  of  physi¬ 
cians’  fees. 

•  Occasionally  individual  companies  offer  com¬ 
pletely  new  policies,  such  as  coverage  of 
long-term  care.  However,  others  quickly  follow. 
Because  regulatory  bodies  discourage  undue  in¬ 
surance  risk  that  will  ruin  the  company  and 
strand  subscribers,  the  association  of  private  in¬ 
surance  firms  may  design  new  packages  for  the 
entire  industry.  The  companies  then  compete 
over  variants  and  over  price. 


COMMUNITY  BEARING  OF  RISKS 

Every  European  statutory  health  insurance  arrange¬ 
ment  is  part  of  the  larger  social  security  system,  and 
the  entire  package  is  permeated  by  the  vocabulary 
and  spirit  of  “social  solidarity.”  None  of  these  coun¬ 
tries  are  “socialist”  in  government  or  in  economies: 
private  enterprise,  the  pursuit  of  individual  gain,  and 
wide  variations  in  income  characterize  their  societies. 

But  health  care  financing  differs  and  is  designed  to 
protect  the  vulnerable  through  redistribution: 


•  The  poor,  disabled,  and  elderly  are  guaranteed 
mainstream  coverage  under  insurance.  Public 
charity  has  been  phased  out. 

•  The  healthy  and  wealthy  pay  into  the  social  in¬ 
surance  funds  payroll  taxes  or  premiums  higher 
than  their  actuarial  costs,  to  provide  extra  cash 
for  the  bad  risks. 

•  Governments  use  general  tax  revenue — based  on 
progressive  income  and  business  taxes — to  subsi¬ 
dize  the  social  insurance  carriers. 

•  In  a  few  countries  (such  as  France,  Belgium,  and 
Holland),  the  health  insurance  carriers  with  extra 
cash  transfer  some  insurance  revenue  to  the  car¬ 
riers  with  deficits. 

•  Price-cutting  competition  that  would  enable  the 
rich  and  healthy  to  keep  their  cash  and  that 
would  underfund  the  system  is  reduced  by  law  or 
by  regulation. 

The  trend  is  toward  making  the  social  insurance 
system  a  single  pool.  Any  person  (no  matter  how  old 
or  how  unhealthy)  can  pick  any  carrier.  No  social  in¬ 
surance  fund  can  reject  an  applicant,  can  charge  an 
extra  risk-related  premium,  or  can  force  out  a  long¬ 
time  subscriber  after  retirement.  Each  carrier  is  ex¬ 
pected  to  raise  enough  cash  to  cover  the  bad  as  well 
as  the  good  risks;  only  after  that  can  it  cut  premiums 
or  add  extra  benefits  as  competitive  tactics  to  attract 
the  healthier,  richer,  and  more  profitable  subscribers. 
If  a  carrier  faces  deficits  because  of  its  portfolio,  it  is 
merged  or  subsidized.  Party  politics  (and,  ultimately, 
the  configuration  of  interest  groups)  determines  the 
timetable:  this  trend  was  achieved  long  ago  in  some 
countries  with  statutory  health  insurance  (such  as 
France  and  Belgium),  is  being  implemented  only  now 
in  Holland,  and  still  has  not  yet  been  fully  adopted  as 
public  policy  in  Germany. 


COST  CONTAINMENT 

Government  can  announce  and  enforce  levels  of 
costs  where  its  general  budget  pays  all  providers — 
such  as  in  Great  Britain,  Sweden,  and  Canada.  But  it 
cannot  dictate  total  spending  so  easily  in  countries 
with  statutory  health  insurance,  since  the  carriers  are 
autonomous,  the  providers  are  private,  every  sub¬ 
scriber  is  guaranteed  access  to  all  benefits  without 
waiting,  and  doctors  have  complete  authority  to 
decide  patients’  needs  and  to  prescribe  care. 

For  many  years,  countries  with  statutory  health  in¬ 
surance  let  patient  demand,  doctors’  judgments,  and 
provider  prices  determine  costs.  Payroll  taxes  were 
steadily  increased,  the  earnings  ceilings  for  the  payroll 
taxes  were  eliminated  in  a  few  countries  (France  and 


23 


Belgium),  and  governments  added  subsidies  to  cover 
the  deficits  resulting  from  full  coverage  of  the  elderly 
and  unemployed.  Costs  had  to  be  controlled,  since  the 
payroll  taxes  became  burdensome  and  governments 
had  to  curb  their  subsidies.  But  government  had  lim¬ 
ited  power  over  health  insurance,  carriers,  and  pro¬ 
viders.  Therefore,  an  elaborate  system  of  negotiation 
among  government  Ministries,  payers  and  providers 
has  evolved  to  set  and  implement  expenditure  targets. 
Procedures  differ  among  these  countries,  but  all  have 
multi-centered  negotiations. 


Setting  Expenditure  Targets 

An  “expenditure  target”  is  a  voluntary  agreement 
among  payers,  providers  and  government  to  try  to 
hold  health  care  spending  at  a  specified  level  for  a 
specified  time.  A  target  may  refer  to  all  health  care, 
health  care  traditionally  covered  by  third  parties,  or  a 
specific  health  care  service  (such  as  physicians,  hospi¬ 
tals,  pharmaceuticals,  or  laboratory  tests). 

An  expenditure  target  states  fiscal  or  budgetary 
goals  that  providers  and  payers  voluntarily  try  to 
achieve.  Expenditure  targets  are  frequently  agreed 
upon  in  order  to  obviate  the  need  for  government 
controls.  An  “expenditure  cap,”  on  the  other  hand,  is 
a  fixed  amount  of  money  allocated  to  a  particular 
sector  or  to  individual  providers  by  government  or  by 
insurance  carriers. 

Expenditure  targets  are  used  to  contain  costs  in 
European  statutory  health  insurance.  Expenditure 
caps  are  used  in  systems  entirely  financed  by  govern¬ 
ment,  as  in  Canada,  Great  Britain,  and  Scandinavia. 
One  of  the  few  uses  of  fixed  caps  under  health  insur¬ 
ance  is  the  payment  of  doctors  in  Germany  from  time 
to  time,  to  be  mentioned  below. 

The  setting  of  expenditure  targets — like  everything 
else  in  European  health  insurance — results  from  nego¬ 
tiations  among  all  the  interested  factions: 

•  In  Holland,  Belgium,  France,  and  many  Swiss 
cantons,  the  guidelines  are  negotiated  among  the 
Ministries  of  Social  Affairs,  Health,  Budget,  and 
Finance.  Each  Ministry  is  influenced  by  various 
interest  groups  in  the  population  and  by  different 
factions  in  the  governing  coalition:  Social  Affairs 
(which  usually  directs  the  social  security  system) 
speaks  for  the  trade  unions,  the  health  insurance 
carriers,  and  the  left  wings  of  the  political  parties 
in  the  governing  coalition;  Health  speaks  for  pro¬ 
viders  (particularly  hospitals),  the  workers  in 
health,  and  patients;  Budget  must  balance  the  de¬ 
mands  from  all  Ministries,  from  all  existing 


government  programs,  and  from  the  governing 
coalition’s  new  proposals;  Budget  must  minimize 
public  subsidies  to  health  insurance;  Finance  tries 
to  avoid  raising  payroll  and  other  taxes;  Finance 
in  practice  represents  business  interests  in  expend¬ 
iture  and  social  policies.  Each  Ministry  develops 
its  case  for  higher  or  lower  health  spending  with 
the  help  of  its  own  statisticians.  Once  viewpoints 
diverged  and  Prime  Ministers  often  had  to  medi¬ 
ate.  But  now  everyone  agrees  that  increases  in 
payroll  taxes  and  public  subsidies  should  be 
avoided,  all  the  Ministries  agree  on  basic  facts 
(particularly  the  expected  yield  of  the  payroll 
taxes  next  year),  and  all  the  Ministries  agree  on 
this  expenditure  target. 

•  In  Germany,  a  standing  forum  represents  all  the 
interest  groups,  viz.,  the  associations  for  doctors, 
hospitals,  dentists,  and  pharmaceuticals;  the  busi¬ 
ness  associations;  the  trade  unions;  the  health  in¬ 
surance  carriers;  and  others.  It  meets  at  least 
once  a  year  and  is  called  the  Konzertierte  Aktion 
im  Gesundheitswesens.  A  staff  from  the  Ministry 
of  Labor  provides  data,  particularly  about  the  ex¬ 
pected  yield  of  payroll  taxes.  A  committee  of 
neutral  experts — chiefly  university  professors — 
prepares  options  papers  and  special  reports.  The 
forum  negotiates  annual  expenditure  targets  in  all 
health  sectors,  usually  within  the  expected  fiscal 
capacity  of  the  payroll  taxes. 


Hospitals 

Payment  under  statutory  health  insurance  in  all 
countries  uses  all-payer  rates.  Since  every  hospital  has 
its  unique  costs,  it  has  its  own  rates,  calculated  to  pro¬ 
vide  enough  revenue  to  cover  its  budget,  approved 
prospectively  by  the  following  methods: 

•  Germany’s  model  of  private  negotiations  is  ex¬ 
tended  to  the  determination  of  its  hospital  rates. 
Every  German  hospital  seeking  reimbursement 
under  statutory  health  insurance  must  fill  out  a 
retrospective  cost  report  and  a  prospective 
budget  every  year,  covering  the  hospital’s  entire 
business.  The  required  information  is  specified  in 
a  law  of  Parliament.  The  forms  are  written  by 
the  staff  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  after  consul¬ 
tation  with  the  national  association  of  hospitals 
and  the  national  associations  of  health  insurance 
carriers.  Each  hospital  (backed  up  by  its  provin¬ 
cial  hospital  association)  submits  its  proposed 
prospective  budget  for  next  year  to  a  joint 
bargaining  committee  of  the  local  health 
insurance  carriers.  They  argue  over  the  hospi¬ 
tal’s  performance  and  needs.  Usually  they  com¬ 
promise  over  a  daily  rate  that  will  cover  the 


24 


hospital’s  costs  next  year  and  that  binds  all  the 
carriers.  In  case  of  deadlocks,  the  hospital  and 
carriers  create  an  arbitration  committee,  which 
usually  awards  an  increase  pursuant  to  the  ex¬ 
penditure  target  recommended  by  the  Konzertierte 
Aktioru 

•  In  most  countries  with  statutory  health  insurance 
(such  as  Holland,  Switzerland,  France,  and  Bel¬ 
gium),  the  hospital’s  rates  are  set  by  investigators 
employed  by  government.  They  are  impartial  ex¬ 
perts  respected  by  all;  they  are  essential  because 
of  the  complexity  of  the  subject  and  because  they 
alone  can  compel  production  of  the  hospital’s 
books  in  order  to  verify  the  hospital’s  statements 
of  its  financial  needs.  The  regulator  analyzes  the 
hospital’s  prospective  budget  pursuant  to  detailed 
guidelines  and  expenditure  targets  sent  down  by 
the  national  Ministries.  The  local  health  insurance 
carriers  also  receive  the  hospital’s  prospective 
budget  and  retrospective  cost  reports,  and  they 
provide  advice  about  the  efficiency  and  quality  of 
the  hospital’s  past  work,  the  hospital’s  need  for 
its  entire  request.  The  hospital  can  appeal  denials 
to  the  higher  ranks  of  the  regulatory  commission 
(in  Holland)  or  the  higher  ranks  of  the  Ministry 
(in  France,  Switzerland,  and  Belgium). 

Expensive  high-tech  programs  can  no  longer  prolif¬ 
erate  around  the  country,  fueling  cost  explosions.  In 
most  countries  with  statutory  health  insurance,  gov¬ 
ernment  plays  an  important  role  by  providing  capital 
grants  for  new  buildings  and  advanced  new  technol¬ 
ogy.  Particularly  in  their  early  stages,  governments 
try  to  limit  the  expensive  programs  to  major  centers 
with  expert  clinical  staffs  and  high  utilization.  Dupli¬ 
cation  and  low  utilization  are  avoided.  The  rate  regu¬ 
lators  will  not  allow  the  social  insurance  carriers  to 
pay  the  operating  costs  of  unapproved  programs. 

Holland  is  one  of  the  very  few  countries  which 
(like  the  United  States)  allows  its  hospitals  to  borrow 
in  the  capital  market,  buy  whatever  they  want,  and 
amortize  the  capital  costs  in  their  operating  budgets. 
Once  the  rate  regulators  were  permissive.  Now  they 
are  tightening  approval  of  the  operating  and  capital 
costs  for  high-tech. 

Because  government  has  limited  power  under  statu¬ 
tory  health  insurance,  because  the  hospitals  are  pri¬ 
vate  or  municipal,  and  because  the  hospitals  have 
much  political  influence  (usually  in  the  political  par¬ 
ties  of  the  Center),  hospital  facilities  planning  is  often 
weak.  It  is  difficult  to  force  hospitals  to  reduce  beds 
or  to  close. 


Doctors 

The  guidelines  about  costs  are  implemented  as  fol¬ 
lows: 

•  Fees  and  other  rules  of  practice  under  statutory 
health  insurance  are  always  negotiated  every 
year  between  the  medical  associations  and  a  joint 
bargaining  committee  from  the  associations  of 
health  insurance  carriers.  Because  of  the  wording 
of  the  law  and  the  need  to  win  the  cooperation 
of  the  doctors,  government  never  dictates  the 
physicians’  pay.  Most  countries  settle  doctors’ 
pay  at  the  national  level,  but  the  Swiss  negotia¬ 
tions  occur  in  each  canton.  The  fee  schedules  and 
other  agreements  apply  to  all  payers  except  for 
the  small  market  for  private  insurance  and  pri¬ 
vate  out-of-pockets.  Because  rising  utilization  and 
service  intensity  have  increased  their  medical 
services  costs,  the  health  insurance  carriers  now 
grant  only  small  increases  in  fees.  The  carriers 
invoke  the  expenditure  targets  and  argue  that 
trends  in  utilization  and  service  intensity  threaten 
them  with  deficits.  The  annual  negotiations  over 
fees  are  often  disputatious,  but  the  medical  asso¬ 
ciations  usually  settle,  because  they  know  that  the 
sickness  funds  cannot  grant  more  money  than  the 
probable  fiscal  yield  of  the  payroll  taxes,  and  be¬ 
cause  doctors’  earnings  rise  as  utilization  and 
service  intensity  grow,  even  when  the  fees  them¬ 
selves  (i.e.,  the  “conversion  factors”)  rise  little. 
The  medical  associations  can  demand  arbitration 
by  government  but  usually  don’t:  they  will  lose 
an  appeal  nowadays,  since  their  incomes  rise  sub¬ 
stantially  from  utilization  and  service  intensity 
even  when  their  fees  rise  little,  and  since  all  po¬ 
litical  parties  (even  the  conservatives)  and  the 
government’s  finance  officers  expect  such  an  af¬ 
fluent  occupation  to  accept  restraint. 

Balance  billing  is  illegal  under  statutory  health  in¬ 
surance  in  some  countries  (such  as  Holland  and  Swit¬ 
zerland).  It  is  allowed  in  a  few  countries  under  the 
social  insurance  contracts  (such  as  France  and  Bel¬ 
gium).  But  it  is  infrequent:  doctors  usually  extra-bill 
only  the  wealthier  patients. 

•  Utilization  and  service  intensity  are  difficult  to 
limit.  Doctors  have  full  authority  under  the  laws 
of  medical  practice  and  social  insurance  to  pre¬ 
scribe  whatever  they  think  the  patient  needs,  and 
the  health  insurance  carriers  are  obligated  to  pay. 
Health  insurance  carriers  collect  the  claims  data, 
create  statistical  profiles,  identify  some  deviants 
who  seem  to  file  too  many  claims,  and  employ 
control  doctors  to  caution  the  overbillers.  But 
these  methods  have  been  hesitant  and  ineffective. 
Health  insurance  carriers  and  medical  associa- 


25 


tions  in  some  countries  (such  as  France  and  Bel¬ 
gium)  now  try  to  implement  effective  utilization 
review  as  part  of  the  joint  negotiating  machinery. 

In  Germany,  the  health  insurance  associations  turn 
over  both  the  money  and  the  utilization  review  task 
completely  to  the  medical  association.  The  German 
method — used  at  times  of  strict  cost  containment — 
represents  the  only  fixed  expenditure  cap  over  physi¬ 
cians’  reimbursement  under  statutory  health  insurance, 
but  it  is  administered  completely  by  the  doctors  them¬ 
selves.  Under  this  system,  the  doctor  is  not  guaran¬ 
teed  the  same  fee  throughout  the  year.  If  utilization 
and  service  intensity  rise  faster  than  expected  so  that 
the  account  faces  deficits,  the  managers  reduce  the 
fees  for  new  claims.  In  countries  with  targets  rather 
than  caps,  the  insurance  carriers  pay  all  claims  in  full, 
reallocate  or  borrow  to  cover  the  excess  over  the  ex¬ 
penditure  target,  and  limit  more  strictly  their  conces¬ 
sions  to  the  doctors  in  next  year’s  negotiations. 


Pharmaceutical  Drugs 

Governments  play  a  larger  role,  since  the  health  in¬ 
surance  carriers  cannot  cope  by  themselves  with  such 
a  powerful  and  complicated  industry.  Although  a 
smaller  proportion  of  total  health  care  costs  than  hos¬ 
pital  and  physician  spending,  drugs  grow  too. 

•  All  governments  license  drugs  to  ensure  safety. 
Some  regulate  prices  for  all  citizens. 

•  Most  countries  with  statutory  health  insurance 
have  formularies  limiting  the  number  of  drugs  to 
be  reimbursed  under  the  programs. 

•  All  countries  require  patients  to  pay  some  of  the 
drug  costs  under  social  insurance,  to  discourage 
over-prescription  and  waste. 

•  Utilization  is  difficult  to  control,  since  all  doctors 
have  the  right  to  prescribe  what  they  think  best, 
the  newest  drugs  are  very  expensive,  and  the  car¬ 
riers  are  obligated  to  pay.  At  best,  various  regula¬ 
tions  and  financial  incentives  try  to  persuade 
doctors,  pharmacists,  and  patients  to  prefer  the 
less  expensive  generic  substitute. 


26 


CONTROLLING  HEALTH  CARE  COSTS 


Mark  Merlis  * 


ABSTRACT 

Concerns  about  rapid  growth  in  U.S.  medical  ex¬ 
penditures  have  led  to  a  variety  of  proposals  for  con¬ 
trolling  health  care  costs.  This  report  reviews  current 
health  care  cost  control  proposals,  including  both  reg¬ 
ulatory  and  competitive  options.  The  report  provides 
an  overview  of  the  concepts  underlying  these  basic 
approaches  and  the  evidence  available  about  their 
ability  to  achieve  savings  and  their  potential  impact 
on  access  and  quality  of  care. 


SUMMARY 

Inflation  in  the  medical  sector  has  outpaced  infla¬ 
tion  in  the  rest  of  the  economy  for  many  years.  There 
are  concerns  that  continued  growth  in  health  care 
costs  could  impede  efforts  to  improve  access  to  health 
care  and  could  eventually  erode  the  access  that  al¬ 
ready  exists.  While  efforts  to  control  medical  spend¬ 
ing  have  been  a  central  issue  in  health  policy  at  least 
since  the  early  1970s,  these  concerns  have  given  the 
issue  a  new  urgency. 

Most  proposals  to  limit  health  care  spending  have 
relied  on  one  of  four  basic  approaches.  The  first  is  to 
change  the  behavior  of  consumers  by  holding  them 
directly  responsible  for  a  larger  portion  of  the  costs  of 
their  own  care.  Increases  in  required  deductible  and 
coinsurance  payments  by  enrollees  in  health  plans  can 
reduce  overall  costs.  However,  they  may  have  a 
disproportionate  impact  on  low-income  persons,  de¬ 
terring  even  necessary  care,  and  may  not  affect  the 
treatment  decisions  of  providers,  who  control  much 
of  total  health  spending. 

The  second  major  approach  is  to  change  provider 
behavior  through  direct  modification  of  medical  prac¬ 


*  Report  prepared  by  Mark  Merlis,  Specialist  in  Social  Legislation,  Educa¬ 
tion  and  Public  Welfare  Division,  Congressional  Research  Service,  January 
26,  1990. 


tice,  or  by  controlling  the  overall  supply  of  medical 
resources.  Insurers  have  had  some  success  in  control¬ 
ling  inpatient  hospital  services  through  external 
review  systems,  but  savings  have  been  largely  offset 
by  a  growth  in  outpatient  services.  These  have 
proved  harder  to  manage,  in  part  because  there  is 
little  agreement  about  what  constitutes  appropriate 
care.  There  are  hopes  that  further  research  on  the 
effectiveness  of  medical  treatments  can  provide  a  basis 
for  limiting  unnecessary  care.  If  reductions  in  utiliza¬ 
tion  are  to  achieve  their  full  savings  potential,  how¬ 
ever,  they  may  need  to  be  accompanied  by  controls 
on  the  overall  supply  of  medical  resources.  Supply 
controls  through  local  health  planning  systems  were 
attempted  in  the  1970s,  but  encountered  political  bar¬ 
riers  and  had  limited  success. 

The  third  cost  control  approach  is  to  change  pro¬ 
vider  behavior  through  reimbursement  systems  that 
provide  incentives  for  greater  efficiency.  Several 
States,  as  well  as  Canada  and  other  nations,  have 
adopted  payment  systems  that  fix  in  advance  the  re¬ 
sources  a  provider  can  consume  in  treating  an  indi¬ 
vidual  patient  or  an  entire  patient  population.  These 
systems  may  encourage  more  cost-effective  treatment, 
but  may  also  delay  the  introduction  of  new  medical 
technologies  or  otherwise  compromise  quality.  Their 
long-term  potential  for  cost  savings  may  rest  on  the 
willingness  of  the  public  to  accept  trade-offs  between 
cost  and  other  priorities. 

The  last  major  approach  is  to  encourage  consumers 
to  choose  from  among  multiple  health  plans  that  com¬ 
pete  on  the  basis  of  their  ability  to  develop  structured 
and  efficient  delivery  systems.  Health  maintenance  or¬ 
ganizations  (HMOs)  and  other  managed  care  systems 
have  shown  some  ability  to  control  costs,  using  utili¬ 
zation  controls,  financial  incentives  for  providers,  and 
other  methods.  The  ability  of  these  programs  to 
achieve  their  full  savings  potential  may  be  limited  by 
the  reluctance  of  higher-cost  patients  to  accept  the  re¬ 
strictions  on  choice  of  providers  imposed  by  HMOs. 


27 


28-861  -  90  -  2  :  QL  3 


INTRODUCTION 

The  United  States  spends  more  per  capita,  and  a 
greater  proportion  of  its  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP),  on  medical  care  than  any  other  industrialized 
nation.  U.S.  health  expenditures  in  1987  reached  $500 
billion,  11.1  percent  of  GDP,  as  compared  to  8.6  per¬ 
cent  in  Canada,  6.8  percent  in  Japan,  and  6.1  percent 
in  the  United  Kingdom.1  Despite  its  higher  expendi¬ 
tures,  the  United  States  performs  no  better  than  other 
industrialized  nations,  and  worse  than  many,  on  such 
measures  of  health  care  outcomes  as  life  expectancy 
or  infant  mortality  rates.  These  international  compari¬ 
sons  have  led  many  observers  to  conclude  that  our 
medical  care  system  is  much  less  efficient  than  those 
elsewhere,  spending  more  for  less. 

Not  everyone  would  agree.  Gross  measures  of 
health  status  may  reflect,  not  the  relative  efficiency  of 
our  medical  care  system,  but  other  differences  be¬ 
tween  the  United  States  and  other  countries.  Life 
expectancy,  for  example,  may  be  tied  to  diet  or  envi¬ 
ronment,  while  infant  mortality  rates  may  in  pan  re¬ 
flect  such  factors  as  the  rate  of  teenage  pregnancy. 
Other  aspects  of  quality  may  not  be  captured  by  these 
measures  at  all.  For  example,  Americans  (or  at  least 
insured  Americans)  may  have  greater  access  to  ad¬ 
vances  in  medical  technology  than  persons  in  other 
countries  or  may  be  less  likely  to  have  to  wait  for 
non-emergency  treatment.  Assessing  the  efficiency  of 
the  American  system  depends  in  pan  on  how  one  de¬ 
fines  quality,  a  problem  that  will  be  considered  fur¬ 
ther  at  the  end  of  this  report. 

Whatever  the  relative  quality  of  American  medical 
care,  there  are  concerns  about  the  rate  at  which 
health  expenditures  are  increasing.  Inflation  in  the 
medical  sector  has  outpaced  inflation  in  the  rest  of  the 
economy  for  many  years.  National  health  expendi¬ 
tures  rose  an  average  of  13  percent  a  year  from  1970 
through  1981.  The  rate  of  growth  declined  over  the 
next  several  years,  chiefly  because  of  a  decline  in  in¬ 
patient  hospital  admissions.  Between  1984  and  1985 
total  costs  rose  just  7.9  percent,  the  lowest  annual  rate 
of  increase  since  the  enactment  of  Medicare  and  Med¬ 
icaid  in  1965  (though  still  greater  than  the  growth  in 
GDP).  This  moderation  in  expenditure  growth 
proved  short-lived.  Costs  rose  9.8  percent  in  1987, 
and  employers  and  insurers  have  reported  dramatic 
cost  increases  over  the  next  2  years.  For  example,  one 
recent  survey  has  found  that  employers’  average  cost 
per  employee  for  health  benefits  rose  19  percent  in 
1988. 2 


1  George  J.  Schieber  and  Jean- Pierre  Pouilier.  " International  Health  Care 
Expenditure  Trends:  1987,”  Health  Affairs  8  (3)  (Fall  19S9V  169-1  'Here¬ 
after  cited  as  International  Health  Care  Expenditure  Trends:  198'.) 

*  Jerry  Geisel.  "Health  Benefit  Tab  Rises  19^  to  New  High.'  B-^Jzness  In¬ 
surance  (December  11,  1989):  1. 


The  return  of  double-digit  medical  care  inflation 
after  a  temporary  respite  has  led  to  concerns  that 
continued  growth  in  medical  care  costs  could  impede 
efforts  to  improve  access  to  health  care  and  could 
eventually  erode  the  access  that  already  exists.  Many 
employers  have  already  reduced  their  contribution  to 
employees’  insurance  expenses,  while  the  costs  of 
public  insurance  programs  are  consuming  an  increas¬ 
ing  share  of  State  and  Federal  budgets.  Proposals  to 
extend  coverage  to  the  uninsured  have  raised  con¬ 
cerns  that  any  expansion  of  the  insured  population 
might  lend  a  further  impetus  to  medical  care  inflation, 
as  did  the  enactment  of  Medicare  and  Medicaid  in 
1965.  While  the  issue  of  health  care  costs  and  wav’s  of 
controlling  them  has  been  a  central  one  in  health 
policy  at  least  since  the  early  1970s,  these  recent  de¬ 
velopments  have  given  the  issue  a  new  urgency. 

This  report  examines  policy  options  for  controlling 
the  increase  in  health  care  costs  by  modifying  the 
way  medical  care  is  delivered  or  financed.  Most  pro¬ 
posals  have  relied  on  one  of  four  basic  approaches: 

•  Changing  the  behavior  of  consumers  by  holding 
them  directly  responsible  for  a  larger  portion  of 
the  costs  of  their  own  care: 

•  Changing  provider  behavior  through  direct  modi¬ 
fication  of  medical  practice,  or  by  controlling  the 
overall  supply  of  medical  resources; 

•  Changing  provider  behavior  through  reimburse¬ 
ment  systems  that  provide  incentives  for  greater 
efficiency; 

•  Changing  the  behavior  of  both  providers  and 
consumers  by  encouraging  consumers  to  choose 
from  among  multiple  health  plans  that  compete 
on  the  basis  of  their  ability  to  develop  structured 
and  efficient  delivery  systems. 

The  remainder  of  this  report  provides  an  overview 
of  the  concepts  underlying  these  basic  approaches  and 
the  evidence  available  about  their  ability  to  achieve 
savings  and  their  potential  impact  on  access  and  qual¬ 
ity  of  care.  The  greatest  attention  is  devoted  to  the 
last  of  the  four  strategies,  competition,  because  this 
approach  has  dominated  policy  discussion  in  recent 
years. 

The  report  does  not  consider  changes  outside  the 
health  care  delivery  system  that  could  directly  or  in¬ 
directly  affect  medical  care  expenditures.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  the  incidence  of  illness  or  injury  might  be 
reduced  through  public  health  or  health  education 
measures,  stronger  environmental  controls,  or  im¬ 
proved  safety  regulation.  Changes  in  the  civil  litiga¬ 
tion  system  (i.e..  malpractice  reform)  could  reduce  the 
practice  of  “defensive  medicine”  that  is  alleged  to 


28 


result  in  the  performance  of  unnecessary  tests  or  pro¬ 
cedures.  Such  measures  might  well  play  an  important 
role  in  any  comprehensive  initiative  to  control  medi¬ 
cal  care  spending.  They  are  omitted  in  order  to  allow 
this  report  to  focus  more  directly  on  the  medical  care 
system  itself  and  on  proposals  to  change  the  way  con¬ 
sumers  and  providers  behave  within  that  system. 


Cost  Sharing 

Proposals  to  hold  consumers  responsible  for  more 
of  the  costs  of  their  own  medical  care  begin  with  the 
premise  that  comprehensive  insurance  coverage, 
largely  funded  by  employers  or  government,  has  dis¬ 
torted  the  health  care  market  by  freeing  consumers  of 
any  need  to  consider  the  utility  or  price  of  the  serv¬ 
ices  they  are  consuming.  While  not  all  observers  share 
the  view  that  growth  in  health  care  costs  is  driven  by 
consumer  choices,  there  are  increasing  calls  for  meas¬ 
ures  to  encourage  consumers  to  become  more  con¬ 
scious  of  the  price  and  utility  of  the  medical  services 
they  use. 

There  are  two  broad  ways  of  doing  so.  The  first  is 
to  require  consumers  to  pay  a  higher  share  of  the  pre¬ 
miums  for  their  health  care  coverage,  thus  giving 
them  an  incentive  to  choose  the  most  efficiently  oper¬ 
ated  plan.  This  approach  is  the  subject  of  the  fmal 
section  of  this  memorandum.  The  second  method, 
considered  in  this  section,  is  to  make  consumers  pay 
more  of  the  direct  costs  of  the  services  they  use  by 
increasing  the  deductibles  or  coinsurance  payments 
required  under  their  insurance  plans. 

Increases  in  enrollee  cost-sharing  responsibility  can 
reduce  overall  medical  expenditures  only  if  they  deter 
some  enrollees  from  obtaining  care.  Otherwise,  they 
merely  shift  expenses  from  the  insurer  to  the 
consumer.3  The  major  study  of  the  impact  of  cost¬ 
sharing  on  health  care  utilization  and  costs  was  the 
Health  Insurance  Experiment  (HIE)  conducted  be¬ 
tween  1974  and  1982  by  the  RAND  Corporation, 
under  contract  to  the  Health  Care  Financing  Admin¬ 
istration.  The  HIE  randomly  assigned  7,700  enrollees 
to  a  variety  of  health  insurance  plans,  including  a  plan 
that  included  no  cost-sharing  (the  “free”  plan)  and 
plans  requiring  coinsurance  payments  ranging  from  25 
to  95  percent  (subject  to  overall  limits  on  out-of- 
pocket  expenditures). 

3  Deductibles  have  other  behavioral  effects  that  may  also  produce  cost 
savings.  Enrollees  whose  costs  during  a  year  exceed  the  deductible  by  only  a 
small  margin  may  not  go  to  the  trouble  of  filing  a  claim.  Other  enrollees  who 
are  careless  in  record-keeping  may  be  unable  to  document  all  of  their  out-of- 
pocket  expenditures  and  may  therefore  spend  more  than  the  nominal  deduct¬ 
ible  before  the  insurance  takes  over. 


The  key  findings  of  the  HIE  were  these:  4 

•  Cost-sharing  reduced  the  probability  that  individ¬ 
uals  would  seek  care  for  any  particular  medical 
condition.  The  strongest  deterrent  effects  oc¬ 
curred  among  the  poor,  especially  poor  children. 
They  were  at  least  40  percent  less  likely  to  obtain 
care  for  a  given  condition  than  children  in  the 
free  plan. 

•  Cost-sharing  deterred  enrollees  from  obtaining 
both  “appropriate”  and  “inappropriate”  medical 
care.  Low-income  enrollees  in  the  cost-sharing 
plans  were  less  likely  to  seek  care  for  conditions 
for  which  medical  care  is  highly  effective,  as 
well  as  for  conditions  for  which  medical  care  is 
rarely  effective.  Those  in  the  cost-sharing  plans 
had  worse  outcomes  for  specific  conditions  (such 
as  hypertension)  that  can  be  improved  by  medical 
treatment. 

•  While  cost-sharing  prevented  enrollees  from  initi¬ 
ating  an  episode  of  medical  care,  it  did  not 
change  the  course  of  treatment  once  an  indi¬ 
vidual  had  entered  the  medical  care  system. 
Within  any  given  episode  of  care,  the  cost-shar¬ 
ing  enrollees  received  the  same  services  and 
medications  as  other  patients. 

These  findings  raise  several  important  concerns 
about  the  utility  of  cost-sharing  as  an  approach  for  re¬ 
ducing  medical  expenditures.  First,  as  would  be  ex¬ 
pected,  its  impact  is  greatest  on  enrollees  with  the 
least  income.  This  effect  might  be  modified  by  devel¬ 
oping  cost-sharing  requirements  that  varied  by 
income.  Such  a  system  might  be  administratively 
cumbersome  for  employers  or  insurers.  It  might  also 
defeat  its  own  purpose,  since  cost-sharing  may  not 
reduce  utilization  unless  it  is  financially  burdensome. 
(The  HIE  enrollees  in  the  least  burdensome  cost-shar¬ 
ing  plan  actually  incurred  slightly  higher  costs  than 
those  in  the  free  plan.) 

Second,  cost-sharing  may  deter  necessary  as  well  as 
unnecessary  care.  The  goal  of  making  consumers 
more  prudent  in  their  use  of  health  services  may 
demand  a  degree  of  sophistication  about  the  value  of 
different  services  that  not  all  enrollees  possess.  There 
have  been  attempts  to  develop  more  carefully  tar¬ 
geted  cost-sharing  systems,  to  control  only  inappro¬ 
priate  utilization  or  to  channel  utilization  in  particular 
ways.  For  example,  a  higher  coinsurance  amount  may 
be  imposed  for  emergency  room  visits,  in  order  to 


4  This  summary  is  drawn  from  Kathleen  Lohr,  et  al.,  “Use  of  Medical 
Care  in  the  RAND  Health  Insurance  Experiment:  Diagnosis  and  Service- 
Specific  Analyses  in  a  Randomized  Controlled  Trial,”  Medical  Care  24  (9) 
(Supplement)  (September  1986):  S74-S77;  and  Robert  H.  Brook,  et  al.,  “Does 
Free  Care  Improve  Adults’  Health?:  Results  From  a  Randomized  Controlled 
Trial,"  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  309  (23)  (December  8,  1983):  1426- 
1434. 


29 


prevent  enrollees  from  using  the  emergency  room  for 
non-urgent  care;  this  approach  is  common  in  health 
maintenance  organizations  (HMOs)  and  has  been 
adopted  by  some  State  Medicaid  plans.  It  is  not  cer¬ 
tain,  however,  that  even  such  narrower  measures  will 
deter  only  unnecessary  care. 

Finally,  and  perhaps  most  important  from  the  per¬ 
spective  of  cost  reduction,  cost-sharing  may  not 
modify  the  course  of  care  once  treatment  has  begun, 
presumably  because  the  decision-making  has  generally 
shifted  from  the  patient  to  the  physician.  This  finding 
of  the  HIE  is  partly  a  result  of  the  design  of  the  ex¬ 
periment.  Regardless  of  the  level  of  cost-sharing  re¬ 
quired,  each  plan  had  an  out-of-pocket  limit,  a  point 
beyond  which  the  insurer  assumed  full  responsibility 
for  all  further  expenses.  In  the  absence  of  such  a  limit, 
enrollees  might  have  been  more  likely  to  decline  the 
services  ordered  by  their  physicians.  At  the  same 
time,  however,  the  most  severely  ill  would  have  been 
subject  to  catastrophic  financial  losses. 

Most  medical  care  costs  are  incurred  by  a  small  mi¬ 
nority  of  patients.5  A  cost-sharing  system  without  cat¬ 
astrophic  limits  will  leave  that  minority  unprotected, 
while  a  system  with  limits  on  out-of-pocket  expenses 
may  have  a  minimal  effect  on  the  total  costs  of  care 
once  treatment  has  been  initiated.  The  problem  of 
controlling  the  costs  of  ongoing  treatment  is  the  sub¬ 
ject  of  the  next  section. 


Changing  Medical  Practice 

Because  most  medical  care  purchasing  decisions  are 
made  by  physicians  and  other  providers,  rather  than 
by  the  patients  themselves,  savings  might  be  achieved 
if  unnecessary  services  could  be  eliminated  through 
external  review  of  those  decisions  or  through  efforts 
to  modify  the  providers’  own  decision-making. 

External  Utilization  Controls — The  term  “utilization 
controls”  embraces  a  variety  of  external  constraints 
imposed  by  a  payer  on  the  volume  or  nature  of 
services  furnished  or  ordered  by  providers.6  These 
include: 

•  Pre-admission  certification  for  elective  inpatient 
stays; 


5  In  1978,  10  percent  of  U.S.  families  accounted  for  67  percent  of  total 
health  expenditures.  U.S.  Congress,  Congressional  Budget  Office,  Cata¬ 
strophic  Medical  Expenses:  Patterns  in  the  Non-Elderly,  Non-Poor  Population 
(Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  December  1982),  xviii. 

6  These  techniques  are  sometimes  referred  to  by  health  insurers  as  “man¬ 
aged  care.”  Others  restrict  the  term  “managed  care”  to  the  more  aggressive 
interventions  in  the  health  care  system  represented  by  HMOs  or  similar  enti¬ 
ties.  This  is  the  sense  in  which  the  term  will  be  used  later  in  this  report. 


•  Concurrent  review,  under  which  patients  already 
admitted  to  the  hospital  are  monitored  to  ensure 
the  appropriateness  of  their  continued  stay; 

•  Voluntary  or  mandatory  second  opinions  before 
elective  surgery; 

•  Case  management,  under  which  the  payer  or  the 
payer’s  agent  attempts  to  assume  control  of  the 
overall  delivery  of  services  to  an  individual  high- 
cost  patient; 

•  Various  approaches  for  shifting  the  locus  of  care 
from  high-cost  to  low-cost  settings.  These  include 
requirements  that  certain  surgical  procedures  be 
performed  on  an  outpatient  basis,  or  that  diag¬ 
nostic  tests  ordinarily  required  for  inpatients  be 
conducted  before  the  patient  is  admitted  to  the 
hospital. 

Utilization  controls,  especially  pre-admission  certifi¬ 
cation  and  concurrent  review,  have  become  a  stand¬ 
ard  feature  of  health  insurance  plans  during  the  1980s. 
They  are  now  used  in  the  Medicare  program,  in  29 
State  Medicaid  programs  (as  of  1987),  and  in  72  per¬ 
cent  of  employer-sponsored  health  plans  (as  of  1988), 
up  from  59  percent  just  a  year  earlier.7  Despite  the 
rapid  adoption  of  utilization  control  systems  by  both 
public  and  private  payers,  they  have  received  little 
systematic  study,  and  evidence  that  they  actually 
reduce  spending  is  limited.  Pre-admission  review  has 
the  strongest  track  record;  one  controlled  study  found 
that  it  produced  net  savings  for  an  average  employee 
group  of  7.3  percent,  with  even  higher  savings  for 
groups  that  had  very  high  utilization  before  the  pro¬ 
grams  were  initiated.8  The  evidence  on  some  of  the 
other  approaches  is  less  clear.  For  example,  some 
studies  have  suggested  that  voluntary  second  surgical 
opinion  programs  may  not  deter  enough  unnecessary 
surgery  to  offset  the  costs  of  the  second  opinions 
themselves;  mandatory  programs  appear  to  be  more 
successful.9 

There  are  also  concerns  that  even  the  most  success¬ 
ful  utilization  control  approaches  focus  only  on  inpa¬ 
tient  care  and  may  merely  shift  the  site  in  which  care 
is  delivered  without  fundamentally  changing  medical 
practice.10  If  a  reduction  in  inpatient  admissions  is 


7  Phoebe  A.  Lindsey,  “Medicaid  Utilization  Control  Programs:  Results  of 
a  1987  Study,”  Health  Care  Financing  Review  10  (4)  (Summer  1989):  79-92; 
and  Jon  Gabel,  et  al.,  “Employer-Sponsored  Health  Insurance  in  America,” 
Health  Affairs  8  (2)  (Summer  1989):  1 1 6—128. 

8  Paul  Feldstein,  Thomas  Wickizer,  and  John  Wheeler,  “Private  Cost  Con¬ 
tainment:  The  Effects  of  Utilization  Review  Programs  on  Health  Care  Use 
and  Expenditures,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  318  (20)  (May  19, 
1988):  1310-1314. 

9  For  a  review  of  the  literature,  see  Danny  Ermann,  “Hospital  Utilization 
Review:  Past  Experience,  Future  Directions,”  Journal  of  Health  Politics, 
Policy  and  Law  13  (4)  (Winter  1988):  683-704. 

1 0  For  a  discussion  of  this  issue,  see  Institute  of  Medicine,  Controlling  Costs 
and  Changing  Patient  Care?  The  Role  of  Utilization  Management  (Washington, 
D.C.:  1989). 


30 


followed  by  an  increase  in  outpatient  services,  savings 
may  be  only  temporary;  soon  costs  may  begin  to  rise 
again  as  rapidly  as  before.  One  observer  has  argued 
that,  because  technologies  that  were  once  available 
only  in  hospitals  are  now  widely  diffused  in  the  com¬ 
munity,  the  hospital  is  no  longer  the  appropriate  focus 
of  cost-containment  efforts.  At  the  same  time,  how¬ 
ever,  utilization  controls  for  ambulatory  services  have 
been  slow  to  develop.  In  part,  this  is  because  most 
ambulatory  services  have  relatively  small  prices.  The 
administrative  costs  of  reviewing  each  service  may 
outweigh  any  potential  savings. 11  Some  insurers  have 
begun  to  require  prior  authorization  for  the  most 
costly  outpatient  services,  such  as  CAT  scans  or  other 
major  diagnostic  procedures.  Whether  such  measures 
are  actually  producing  savings  is  not  yet  known. 

Utilization  controls  face  another  barrier  that  may  be 
even  more  important  than  administrative  costs:  the 
subjective  nature  of  medical  practice.  Each  patient  is 
somehow  unique,  and  external  reviewers  may  have 
difficulty  overriding  the  clinical  judgments  of  individ¬ 
ual  practitioners  in  specific  cases.  This  may  be  espe¬ 
cially  true  when  there  is  little  consensus  about  the 
most  appropriate  treatment  for  a  given  condition,  a 
problem  to  be  discussed  in  the  next  section.  In  any 
event,  some  observers  have  contended  that  a  persist¬ 
ent  physician  who  is  prepared  to  appeal  a  denial  of 
authorization  will  often  prevail.  (The  relative  leverage 
of  the  individual  practitioner  may  have  been  en¬ 
hanced  by  recent  legal  decisions  subjecting  external 
utilization  control  agents  to  malpractice  liability  for 
denials  of  necessary  care.)  In  consequence,  utilization 
review  may  function  as  a  delaying  tactic  rather  than 
an  absolute  control,  achieving  savings  only  because 
some  physicians  will  not  take  the  trouble  to  protest 
the  reviewers’  decisions.  The  result  has  been  termed 
“rationing  by  inconvenience.’’  12  Such  savings  as  are 
achieved  may  diminish  over  time  as  physicians 
become  more  skillful  in  dealing  with  the  system. 

For  this  reason,  some  analysts  have  suggested  that 
savings  over  a  longer  term  may  depend  on  the  extent 
to  which  providers  “sign  on”  to  the  concept  of  elimi¬ 
nating  unnecessary  services.  In  this  view,  real  utiliza¬ 
tion  control  will  require  voluntary  changes  in  the  way 
physicians  practice  medicine. 

Modifying  Practice  Styles — Beginning  in  the  1970s, 
studies  by  Wennberg  and  others  showed  that  there 
was  substantial  geographic  variation  in  the  rate  of  use 
of  specific  medical  or  surgical  procedures.  For  exam¬ 
ple,  the  rate  of  tonsillectomies  in  one  area  of  New 

1 1  Jeff  C.  Goldsmith,  “Competition’s  Impact:  A  Report  from  the  Front,” 
Health  Affairs  7  (3)  (Summer  1988):  162-173. 

1 2  Gerald  W.  Grumet,  “Health  Care  Rationing  Through  Inconvenience: 
The  Third  Party’s  Secret  Weapon,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  321  (9) 
(August  31,  1989):  607-611. 


England  was  six  times  higher  than  the  lowest  rate  in 
the  region.13  While  some  of  the  variations  uncovered 
in  “small  area  analysis”  might  be  attributable  to  differ¬ 
ences  in  the  incidence  of  illness  in  different  popula¬ 
tions,  this  explanation  appeared  to  be  insufficient  to 
account  for  all  the  variation;  some  other  factors  had 
to  be  at  work.  One  hypothesis  was  that  physicians  in 
different  areas  had  different  “practice  styles.”  Each 
community  had  its  own  medical  culture,  its  own  char¬ 
acteristic  way  of  diagnosing  or  treating  particular  dis¬ 
eases  or  conditions.  Physicians  adopted  the  practice 
style  of  their  community  in  the  absence  of  firm  and 
objective  information  about  which  treatment  ap¬ 
proach  was  actually  superior. 

Other  explanations  have  been  offered  for  small  area 
variations  in  medical  practice;  these  will  be  discussed 
further  below.  However,  the  practice  style  hypothesis 
has  won  many  supporters  and  has  led  to  proposals  for 
controlling  medical  care  costs  by  (a)  improving 
knowledge  of  the  relative  efficacy  of  different  medical 
treatments  and  (b)  disseminating  this  knowledge  to 
practitioners  in  the  expectation  that  they  will  modify 
their  practice  styles  accordingly.  The  Omnibus 
Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989  (P.L.  101-239)  es¬ 
tablishes  a  new  program  within  the  Department  of 
Health  and  Human  Services  for  research  on  the  effec¬ 
tiveness  of  medical  treatments  and  the  development  of 
practice  guidelines.  Not  all  of  the  proponents  of  this 
initiative  view  it  as  a  cost-containment  measure.  Some 
view  it  chiefly  as  a  possible  way  of  improving  quality 
of  care,  and  therefore  worth  pursuing  whether  or  not 
any  cost  savings  result.  The  following  discussion, 
however,  considers  only  the  potential  of  medical 
practice  research  to  reduce  costs. 

To  have  a  significant  impact,  guidelines  will  need 
to  address  areas  of  practice  on  which  there  is  real  dis¬ 
agreement  among  physicians.  There  have  been  some 
efforts  in  the  past  to  codify  elements  of  medical  prac¬ 
tice  on  which  there  already  existed  a  consensus.  How¬ 
ever,  if  most  physicians  already  agree  on  the  best 
treatments,  promulgating  that  agreement  in  the  form 
of  guidelines  may  not  have  a  measurable  impact  on 
medical  practice.  (This  appears  to  have  been  the  case, 
for  example,  with  a  1984  consensus  report  on  the 
treatment  of  high  blood  pressure.14)  For  this  reason, 
the  treatment  research  initiative  will  focus  on  condi¬ 
tions  for  which  there  is  found  to  be  a  wide  variation 
in  current  practice.  Because  the  Nation  is  just  begin¬ 
ning  to  devote  significant  resources  to  research  on  the 
outcomes  of  alternative  medical  treatments,  it  may 


13  John  Wennberg  and  Alan  Gittelsohn,  “Variations  in  Medical  Care 
Among  Small  Areas,”  Scientific  American  246  (April  1982):  120-134. 

14  Martha  N.  Hill,  David  M.  Levine,  and  Paul  K.  Whelton,  “Awareness, 
Use,  and  Impact  of  the  1984  Joint  National  Committee  Consensus  Report  on 
High  Blood  Pressure,”  American  Journal  of  Public  Health  78  (9)  (September 
1988):  1190-1194. 


31 


take  time  for  researchers  to  reach  agreement  in  cases 
where  practice  variation  is  the  result  of  real  scientific 
uncertainty.  The  full  potential  savings  from  this  strat¬ 
egy  might  therefore  be  realized  only  over  the  long 
term. 

Assuming  that  future  research  can  resolve  disagree¬ 
ments  over  appropriate  treatments,  there  would 
remain  the  task  of  inducing  physicians  to  modify  their 
practices  voluntarily  on  the  basis  of  the  new  findings. 
Some  success  in  changing  practices  has  been  reported 
when  physicians  have  been  introduced  to  guidelines 
through  structured  face-to-face  educational  programs 
conducted  by  respected  peers.15  Some  other  efforts 
that  relied  only  on  printed  materials  to  communicate 
practice  recommendations  have  had  disappointing  re¬ 
sults.  Providers  could  be  aware  of  and  even  approve 
the  recommendations  without  making  significant 
changes  in  practice.  It  is  possible  that  some  physicians 
may  encounter  barriers  in  implementing  even  guide¬ 
lines  with  which  they  nominally  agree.  These  may  in¬ 
clude  concerns  about  malpractice  liability,  lack  of  the 
substitute  skills  or  the  special  equipment  needed  to 
follow  the  guidelines,  economic  incentives,  or  pres¬ 
sure  from  patients.16  These  barriers  might  be  over¬ 
come  with  more  vigorous  educational  efforts.  Still, 
countervailing  economic  and  professional  pressures 
may  limit  the  willingness  or  ability  of  physicians  to 
comply  voluntarily  with  treatment  guidelines. 

One  alternative  is  to  use  the  results  of  outcomes  re¬ 
search  as  the  basis  for  mandatory,  rather  than  volun¬ 
tary,  guidelines — that  is,  as  a  way  of  strengthening  or 
broadening  current  utilization  control  programs.  Pro¬ 
posals  to  do  so  have  met  strong  opposition  from  the 
medical  community,  on  the  grounds  that  medicine 
cannot  be  reduced  to  a  “cookbook”  and  that  to 
compel  physicians  to  comply  with  fixed  practice  rules 
would  stifle  innovation.  In  addition,  there  would 
remain  the  problem  of  achieving  sufficient  savings  to 
offset  the  administrative  costs  of  review  systems. 

Another  option  is  to  replace  service-by-service  utili¬ 
zation  review  with  general  comparisons  of  each  phy¬ 
sician’s  practice  patterns  to  those  of  his  or  her  peers. 
Physicians  who,  over  time,  consistently  furnished  or 
ordered  more  of  certain  services  than  others  in  the 
peer  group  would  be  targeted  for  closer  scrutiny,  to 
determine  whether  patterns  of  inappropriate  utiliza¬ 
tion  existed.  Physicians  found  to  be  outliers  might  be 
the  focus  of  special  educational  efforts  in  the  hopes  of 


15  See  Mark  R.  Chassin,  “Standards  of  Care  in  Medicine,”  Inquiry  25  (4) 
(Winter  1988):  437-453. 

16  Jonathan  Lomas,  et  al.,  “Do  Practice  Guidelines  Guide  Practice?  The 
Effect  of  a  Consensus  Statement  on  the  Practice  of  Physicians,”  New  England 
Journal  of  Medicine  321  (19)  (November  9,  1989):  1306-1311;  and  Jacqueline 
Kosecoff,  et  al.,  “Effects  of  the  National  Institutes  of  Health  Consensus  De¬ 
velopment  Program  on  Physician  Practice,”  Journal  of  the  American  Medical 
Association  258  (19)  (November  20,  1987):  2708-2713. 


inducing  voluntary  change.  Continued  noncompliance 
might  trigger  requirements  that  individual  services  re¬ 
ceive  prior  authorization  or  could  even  lead  to  ex¬ 
clusion  from  participation  in  a  given  public  or  private 
insurance  program. 

How  much  could  be  saved  if  all  inappropriate  serv¬ 
ices  were  eliminated?  Some  studies  have  found  very 
high  rates  of  unnecessary  care.  For  example,  Chassin 
et  al.,  in  a  thirteen-site  study,  found  that  17  percent  of 
all  coronary  angiographies  were  unnecessary;  for 
other  procedures,  the  rate  of  inappropriate  use  was  as 
high  as  32  percent.  They  also  found,  however,  that 
the  unnecessary  care  explained  only  a  small  fraction 
of  variations  in  utilization  across  geographic  areas.  If 
none  of  the  inappropriate  angiographies  had  been  per¬ 
formed,  the  area  with  the  highest  use  of  this  proce¬ 
dure  would  still  have  had  more  than  twice  the 
number  of  angiographies  as  the  lowest-use  area.  The 
authors  suggest  that  other  factors  must  play  a  part  in 
this  difference:  disease  incidence,  differences  in  the 
point  at  which  primary  care  physicians  decide  to  refer 
patients  to  specialists,  or  cultural  or  social  differences 
in  the  stage  at  which  patients  sought  care.17  Another 
multi-site  study  has  found  that,  while  practice  style 
may  explain  differences  in  utilization  of  certain  spe¬ 
cific  procedures,  it  does  not  explain  overall  differ¬ 
ences  in  per  capita  use  of  medical  care  in  different 
areas.  At  the  aggregate  level,  standard  socioeconomic 
factors  could  explain  much  of  the  difference  in  use 
and  intensity  of  services. 1 8 

These  preliminary  studies  suggest  that  there  could 
be  underutilization  of  services  in  some  areas,  while 
there  is  overutilization  of  the  same  services  in  other 
areas.  Treatment  research  could  pinpoint,  not  only 
cases  in  which  unnecessary  services  could  be  elimi¬ 
nated,  but  also  cases  in  which  patients  have  had 
insufficient  access  (whether  physical  or  financial)  to 
necessary  care.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  some  propo¬ 
nents  of  outcomes  research  have  emphasized  its  po¬ 
tential  impact  on  quality,  rather  than  its  potential  for 
cost  savings.  Precisely  because  there  is  uncertainty 
about  the  relative  efficacy  of  many  treatments,  it 
may  be  too  early  to  say  whether  optimal  medical 
treatment  would  involve  more  or  fewer  services  than 
are  currently  furnished. 


1 7  Mark  R.  Chassin,  et  al.,  “Does  Inappropriate  Use  Explain  Geographic 
Variations  in  the  Use  of  Health  Care  Services?”  Journal  of  the  American  Med¬ 
ical  Association  258  (18)  (November  13,  1987):  2533-2537. 

1 8  Sherman  Folland  and  Milan  Stano,  “Sources  of  Small  Area  Variations 
in  the  Use  of  Medical  Care,”  Journal  of  Health  Economics  8  (1)  (March  1989): 
85-107. 


32 


Supply  Controls 

If  utilization  controls  or  practice  guidelines  succeed 
in  limiting  unnecessary  care,  the  full  potential  savings 
from  any  reduction  in  the  number  of  services  deliv¬ 
ered  may  be  realized  only  if  there  is  a  proportionate 
reduction  in  the  resources  used  to  provide  those  serv¬ 
ices.  For  example,  changes  in  medical  practice  in  the 
late  1970s  and  early  1980s  led  to  a  decline  in  inpatient 
hospital  admissions  without  a  corresponding  reduction 
in  hospital  capacity.  The  result  in  many  areas  has 
been  underutilized  facilities  spreading  their  fixed  costs 
across  a  declining  number  of  patients;  while  there  are 
fewer  patients,  the  cost  for  each  patient  rises  because 
the  unused  capacity  must  still  be  paid  for. 

In  addition,  the  existence  of  excess  capacity  may 
generate  continuing  pressures  to  fmd  some  new  way 
of  using  that  capacity  and  restoring  utilization  to  its 
previous  levels.19  The  view  that  the  use  of  medical 
services  could  rise  to  fill  any  underused  resources  led 
to  what  was  perhaps  the  dominant  approach  to  cost 
containment  in  the  1970s:  health  planning,  the  regu¬ 
lation  of  facility  construction  and  other  capital 
expenditures. 

In  1964,  New  York  became  the  first  State  to  estab¬ 
lish  a  certificate-of-need  (CON)  program,  under 
which  proposals  to  build  a  new  facility  or  expand  an 
existing  one  had  to  be  approved  by  a  government 
agency.  Other  States  followed,  and  a  1972  amendment 
to  the  Social  Security  Act  provided  that  facilities  in 
those  States  proceeding  with  construction  without 
obtaining  a  CON  could  be  denied  Medicare  and  Med¬ 
icaid  reimbursement  for  their  capital  expenditures. 
Finally,  the  Health  Planning  and  Resources  Develop¬ 
ment  Act  in  1974  required  all  States  to  establish  simi¬ 
lar  programs.  This  requirement  was  repealed  in  1986, 
along  with  all  Federal  support  for  State  health  plan¬ 
ning  programs.  States  may  continue  to  operate  pro¬ 
grams  on  their  own;  39  States  and  the  District  of 
Columbia  still  do  so.  However,  Medicare  reim¬ 
bursement  is  no  longer  contingent  on  State  approval 
of  capital  expenditures,  and  a  number  of  States 
have  now  limited  their  reviews  to  nursing  home 
construction.20 

Several  factors  contributed  to  the  reversal  of  policy 
on  health  planning.  In  part,  it  fell  victim  to  the  gen¬ 


19  The  view  that  hospital  admissions  rise  in  proportion  to  hospital  bed  ca¬ 
pacity  was  originally  advanced  by  Milton  Roemer,  in  “Bed  Supply  and  Hos¬ 
pital  Utilization:  A  Natural  Experiment,”  Hospitals  35  (21)  (November  1, 
1961):  36-42;  Some  more  recent  studies  have  concluded  that  the  relation  be¬ 
tween  supply  and  utilization  may  not  be  as  straightforward  as  “Roemer’s 
law”  would  suggest.  W.  Ross  Brewer  and  Mary  Anne  Freedman,  “Causes 
and  Implications  of  Variation  in  Hospital  Utilization,”  Journal  of  Public 
Health  Policy  3  (4)  (December  1982):  445-154. 

20  American  Hospital  Association,  State  Issues  Forum,  State  Health  Plan¬ 
ning  Report  (Chicago:  July  1989). 


eral  preference  for  market  as  opposed  to  regulatory 
solutions  during  the  early  1980s.  From  a  Federal 
perspective,  the  adoption  in  1983  of  Medicare’s  pro¬ 
spective  payment  system  (PPS)  for  inpatient  hospital 
services  was  expected  to  offer  a  different  way  of  lim¬ 
iting  health  care  resources;  this  approach  is  discussed 
further  in  the  next  section.21  Underlying  this  shift, 
however,  were  claims  that  health  planning  had  been 
tried  and  had  failed,  largely  because  of  conflicting  po¬ 
litical  pressures.  In  many  areas,  the  oversupply  of  fa¬ 
cilities  was  such  that  savings  would  have  required, 
not  just  limits  on  new  construction,  but  closure  or 
consolidation  of  existing  facilities.  Few  States  were 
able  to  overcome  the  political  resistance  to  such  clo¬ 
sures.  Attempts  to  limit  duplication  of  services  or  the 
spread  of  new  technologies  often  faced  similar  bar¬ 
riers;  attempts  to  plan  for  the  rational  distribution  of 
resources  on  a  regional  basis  had  to  confront 
providers’  fears  of  losing  to  competitors  and  individ¬ 
ual  communities’  desires  for  the  most  up-to-date 
facilities.22 

CON  programs  did  have  some  successes,  particu¬ 
larly  in  constraining  the  growth  in  nursing  home  beds. 
Because  State  Medicaid  programs  are  the  major 
source  of  payment  for  nursing  home  care,  States  had 
a  strong  motive  to  overcome  the  political  barriers  to 
supply  constraint.  In  at  least  some  States,  the  CON 
process  was  explicitly  seen  as  a  Medicaid  cost-con¬ 
tainment  measure;  the  determination  of  the  number  of 
nursing  home  beds  needed  was  related  to  the  maxi¬ 
mum  number  of  patients  the  State  was  prepared  to 
cover.23  Even  in  this  case,  however,  any  savings 
were  achieved  by  holding  growth  in  bed  supply 
below  the  rate  of  growth  in  the  aged  population. 
States  generally  did  not  close  down  existing  capacity. 

Recent  concern  about  the  rate  of  medical  care  cost 
increases  has  led  to  some  calls  for  a  revival  of  health 
planning,  and  it  is  conceivable  that  these  concerns 
might  eventually  be  sufficient  to  overcome  the  politi¬ 
cal  barriers  faced  by  health  planners  in  the  past.  How¬ 
ever,  not  all  of  the  problems  with  health  planning  are 
political  ones.  Effective  planning  may  require  a  fuller 
understanding  of  the  workings  of  the  health  care 
system  than  is  currently  available.  That  system  is  a 
dynamic  one,  and  decisions  that  seemed  sensible  in 
the  late  1970s  have  sometimes  had  unpredictable  ef¬ 
fects.  For  example,  most  planning  programs  focused 


2 1  The  inclusion  of  capital  expenditures  in  PPS  payments  has  been  repeat¬ 
edly  postponed.  Hospitals  are  instead  paid  for  Medicare  capital  expenses  on  a 
reasonable  cost  basis,  subject  to  a  fixed  percentage  discount  (15  percent  be¬ 
ginning  January  1,  1990). 

22  For  an  overview  of  the  barriers  to  health  planning,  see  Lawrence  D. 
Brown,  “Common  Sense  Meets  Implementation:  Certificate-of-Need  Regula¬ 
tion  in  the  States,”  Journal  of  Health  Politics,  Policy  and  Law  8  (3)  (Fall  1983): 
480-494.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Common  Sense  Meets  Implementation.) 

23  Judith  Feder  and  William  Scanlon,  “Regulating  the  Bed  Supply  in  Nurs¬ 
ing  Homes,”  Milbank  Quarterly  58  (1)  (1980):  54-88. 


33 


on  institutional  services  in  hospitals  and  nursing 
homes,  because  these  were  the  major  sources  of  ex¬ 
penditure,  and  did  little  to  control  the  capital  expendi¬ 
tures  of  community-based  physicians  or  clinics.  The 
resulting  growth  in  the  availability  of  high-technology 
facilities  outside  hospitals  is  one  of  the  reasons  that 
recent  reductions  in  inpatient  utilization  have  been 
offset  by  increased  outpatient  costs.  (Some  States  are 
now  applying  uniform  rules  across  settings.) 

Moreover,  a  community’s  needs  may  change  unpre- 
dictably.  New  York  was  more  successful  than  most 
States  in  controlling  inpatient  bed  supply;  it  was  one 
of  the  few  States  in  which  hospital  closures  occurred 
on  a  planned  basis.  While  the  number  of  community 
hospital  beds  nationally  dropped  1.1  percent  between 
1977  and  1987,  the  number  in  New  York  dropped  9.9 
percent.24  New  demands  on  these  facilities  in  the 
1980s,  such  as  the  appearance  of  AIDS  (acquired 
immune  deficiency  syndrome)  and  the  rise  in  drug-re¬ 
lated  problems,  have  led  to  serious  overcrowding  in 
some  New  York  hospitals.  The  reported  crisis  in  New 
York  illustrates  one  of  the  potential  constraints  on  the 
planning  process.  On  the  one  hand,  it  may  be  neces¬ 
sary  to  maintain  enough  excess  capacity  to  meet  un¬ 
foreseen  needs  or  random  fluctuations  in  demand.  On 
the  other  hand,  this  excess  capacity  is  costly  to  main¬ 
tain  and  may  itself  generate  demand.  If  the  supply  of 
a  given  kind  of  service  is  sufficient  that  no  one  ever 
has  to  stand  in  line  for  it,  then  the  savings  from  health 
planning  may  be  limited. 

The  fullest  potential  savings  from  health  planning 
would  require  a  more  controversial  step:  limiting  the 
supply  of  health  resources  to  the  point  at  which  pa¬ 
tients  may  have  to  wait  for  some  period  to  obtain 
needed  but  non-emergency  services.  The  result  is 
“queueing,”  the  delays  in  surgery  or  high-cost  diag¬ 
nostic  procedures  that  are  alleged  to  occur  to  some 
extent  in  Canada  and  to  a  greater  extent  in  the  United 
Kingdom.  The  degree  to  which  queueing  actually 
occurs  in  either  country’s  health  system  has  often 
been  debated  by  those  who  favor  or  oppose  adoption 
of  a  similar  system  here.  Some  people  say  that  essen¬ 
tial  care  may  be  unavailable,  while  others  argue  that 
resource  limits  merely  oblige  providers  to  set  prior¬ 
ities  and  avoid  unnecessary  services. 

Whatever  the  extent  to  which  resources  have  been 
limited  elsewhere,  rationing  of  supply  in  the  United 
States  might  raise  concerns  that  are  not  as  significant 
in  countries  where  the  entire  population  participates 
in  a  single  insurance  program.  In  those  countries, 
everyone  is  in  the  same  queue,  and  one’s  place  in  line 
is  chiefly  determined  by  the  urgency  or  duration  of 


24  American  Hospital  Association,  Hospital  Statistics,  1978  and  1988 
editions. 


one’s  need.  (There  are  exceptions:  one  can  step  out  of 
line  in  the  United  Kingdom  by  finding  a  private  pro¬ 
vider,  and  there  are  anecdotal  accounts  that  some  Ca¬ 
nadians  with  sufficient  resources  may  seek  care  in  the 
United  States.)  When  queueing  has  occurred  in  the 
United  States,  however,  places  in  line  may  have  been 
determined  by  financial  resources. 

The  facilities  in  New  York  reporting  the  greatest 
overcrowding  have  been  those  serving  the  poor  and 
the  uninsured.  Similar  effects  may  have  resulted  from 
health  planning’s  major  success,  the  control  of  nursing 
home  bed  supply.  Because  Medicaid  payment  is  gen¬ 
erally  less  than  that  available  from  private  patients, 
nursing  homes  in  areas  with  limited  bed  supply  and 
high  occupancy  rates  have  an  incentive  to  accept  a 
private-pay  patient  when  a  vacancy  occurs,  while 
Medicaid  beneficiaries  may  be  unable  to  find  a  place. 
In  28  States,  Medicaid  administrators  report  that 
beneficiaries  awaiting  hospital  discharge  had  difficulty 
finding  a  nursing  home  bed.25  While  supply  con¬ 
straints  are  not  the  only  factors  limiting  access  to  care 
for  low-income  Americans,  they  may  exacerbate  exist¬ 
ing  problems.  The  acceptability  of  health  planning  as 
a  cost  control  strategy  may,  then,  depend  in  part  on 
the  extent  to  which  supply  limitations  are  accompa¬ 
nied  by  efforts  to  make  distribution  of  limited  re¬ 
sources  more  equitable. 

One  other  issue  should  be  raised  in  the  context  of  a 
discussion  of  health  resources:  the  debate  over  the 
possible  oversupply  of  physicians  and  the  potential 
consequences  of  physician  supply  on  health  care 
costs.  In  1980,  the  Graduate  Medical  Education  Na¬ 
tional  Advisory  Committee  (GMENAC)  reported 
that  the  United  States  would  have  a  surplus  of 
150,000  physicians  by  the  year  2000. 2  6  The  extent  of 
the  potential  surplus  has  since  been  the  subject  of  con¬ 
tinuing  debate.  There  are  questions  about  the  extent 
to  which  technology  and  the  aging  of  the  population 
could  increase  demand,  or  the  adoption  of  utilization 
controls  or  managed  care  could  decrease  it.  The 
number  of  medical  school  admissions  could  decline, 
or  physicians  might  spend  more  of  their  time  on 
administrative  activities  and  less  on  patient  care.27 


25  For  a  fuller  discussion  of  this  problem,  see  U.S.  Library  of  Congress, 
Congressional  Research  Service,  Medicaid  Source  Booh  Background  Data  and 
Analysis.  Report  prepared  for  the  House  Committee  on  Energy  and  Com¬ 
merce  (Committee  print  100-AA)  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  1988),  467- 
483.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Congressional  Research  Service,  Medicaid  Source 
Book.) 

26  Graduate  Medical  Education  National  Advisory  Committee,  Report  to 
the  Secretary,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Washington, 
D.C.:  1980). 

27  For  contrasting  views  on  these  issues,  see  William  B.  Schwartz,  Frank 
A.  Sloan,  and  Daniel  N.  Mendelson,  “Why  There  Will  Be  Little  or  No  Phy¬ 
sician  Surplus  between  Now  and  the  Year  2000,”  New  England  Journal  of 
Medicine  318  (14)  (April  7,  1988):  892-897;  Ernest  P.  Schloss,  “Beyond 
GMENAC — Another  Physician  Shortage  from  2010  to  2030?”  New  England 
Journal  of  Medicine  318  (14)  (April  7,  1988):  920-922. 


34 


Even  less  clear  than  the  extent  of  the  future  surplus 
is  its  possible  effect  on  medical  costs.  Observations 
that  per  capita  use  of  physician  services  increases  in 
geographic  areas  with  a  high  ratio  of  physicians  to 
population  have  led  to  the  hypothesis  of  “physician- 
induced  demand.”  Just  as  excess  hospital  bed  capacity 
may  generate  more  hospital  stays,  this  theory  holds 
that  a  surplus  of  physicians  all  attempting  to  maintain 
their  incomes  would  lead — in  the  absence  of  any  con¬ 
trols — to  excess  delivery  of  services.  Repeated  efforts 
to  demonstrate  this  have  been  inconclusive.28  It  is  not 
clear  that  physicians  actually  modify  their  medical 
practice  in  order  to  maintain  a  “target  income.”  Still, 
if  the  projected  surplus  does  in  fact  appear,  there 
might  be  greater  pressures  on  physicians  to  increase 
the  number  of  services  they  furnish  to  each  patient. 
Some  people  believe  that  it  may  eventually  be  neces¬ 
sary  to  consider  reducing  the  supply  of  physicians  (or 
curtailing  their  working  hours). 

This  has  actually  been  attempted  in  one  Canadian 
province,  British  Columbia.  A  physician  who  wants 
to  participate  in  the  health  program  that  covers  all 
citizens  of  the  province  must  have  a  billing  account, 
and  since  1985  the  number  of  accounts  has  been  lim¬ 
ited  (limits  vary  by  specialty  and  geographic  area).  A 
physician  who  fails  to  obtain  a  billing  number  cannot 
earn  a  living  as  a  physician.  Critics  of  the  system  con¬ 
tend,  however,  that  British  Columbia  is  merely  ex¬ 
porting  its  physician  surplus  to  other  provinces  or  to 
the  United  States.29  Given  the  political  problems 
health  planners  in  the  United  States  have  experienced 
in  trying  to  close  hospitals,  it  seems  unlikely  that  Brit¬ 
ish  Columbia’s  efforts  could  be  reproduced  here,  with 
government  regulators  telling  new  medical  school 
graduates  to  find  some  other  profession.  However, 
there  are  proposals  to  achieve  the  same  goal  through 
private  means.  Some  of  the  more  ambitious  “managed 
care”  agendas  discussed  in  the  final  section  of  this 
report  contemplate  enrollment  of  the  entire  popula¬ 
tion  in  health  maintenance  organizations  (HMOs)  or 
other  structured  delivery  systems  that  would  match 
their  resources  to  the  needs  of  the  enrolled  popula¬ 
tion;  this  approach  would  potentially  reduce  employ¬ 
ment  opportunities  for  physicians.30 


28  See  Louis  F.  Rossiter  and  Gail  R.  Wilensky,  "A  Reexamination  of  the 
Use  of  Physician  Services:  The  Role  of  Physician-Initiated  Demand,”  Inquiry 
20  (2)  (Summer  1983):  162-172;  Kathryn  M.  Langwell  and  Lyle  M.  Nelson, 
“Physician  Payment  Systems:  A  Review  of  History,  Alternatives  and  Evi¬ 
dence,"  Medical  Care  Review  43  (1)  (Spring  1986):  5-58. 

29  Morris  L.  Barer,  "Regulating  Physician  Supply:  The  Evolution  of  Brit¬ 
ish  Columbia's  Bill  41,”  Journal  of  Health  Politics,  Policy,  and  Law  13  (1) 
(Spring  1988):  1-25. 

30  For  example,  Alain  Enthoven  has  characterized  the  “buy  right”  scheme 
advanced  by  Walter  McClure  as  requiring  that  “good-quality,  efficient  doc¬ 
tors  prosper  while  others  are  induced  to  retire.  Alain  C.  Enthoven,  Man¬ 
aged  Competition  in  Health  Care  and  the  Unfinished  Agenda,"  Health  Care 
Financing  Review,  1986  Annual  Supplement,  105-119. 


Reimbursement  Reform 

Proposals  for  reimbursement  reform  begin  with  the 
premise  that  traditional  payment  systems,  under 
which  providers  receive  their  full  costs  or  charges  for 
whatever  services  they  choose  to  furnish,  encourage 
inefficiency  and  the  delivery  of  unnecessary  care. 

The  simplest  type  of  reform  is  for  payers  to  set 
fixed  prices  for  defined  units  of  service,  such  as  a  day 
of  inpatient  care  or  a  physician  office  visit.  However, 
this  approach  may  not  reduce  costs  if  providers  are 
able  to  modify  the  volume  or  nature  of  the  services 
they  provide  to  make  up  for  the  lost  revenue  on  indi¬ 
vidual  services.  For  this  reason,  the  focus  of  reim¬ 
bursement  reform  proposals  is  on  developing  pricing 
mechanisms  that  give  providers  incentives  to  control 
both  volume  and  unit  cost. 

This  is  generally  accomplished  by  redefining  the 
commodity  the  insurer  is  purchasing.  Instead  of 
paying  for  individual  units  of  service,  the  insurer 
makes  one  payment  for  an  episode  of  care  (as  in 
Medicare’s  prospective  payment  system,  PPS),  for 
overall  treatment  of  a  patient  during  a  given  time 
period  (capitation),  or  for  treatment  of  an  entire  popu¬ 
lation  (as  in  Canada’s  global  budgeting  system  for 
hospitals).  These  approaches  may  be  seen  as  aligned 
on  an  ascending  scale  depending  on  the  degree  of 
aggregation  of  the  unit  being  purchased,  with  per-case 
payment  at  the  low  end  and  payment  for  an  entire  pa¬ 
tient  population  at  the  other.  In  all  cases,  however, 
the  aim  is  to  define  in  advance  the  total  amount  of  re¬ 
sources  the  provider  may  consume  in  furnishing  treat¬ 
ment  to  a  patient  or  group  of  patients. 

Per-case  payment  and  capitation  give  the  provider 
an  incentive  to  perform  more  efficiently  in  treating  in¬ 
dividual  patients,  either  reducing  the  cost  of  produc¬ 
ing  each  unit  of  service  or  reducing  the  number  of 
units  furnished  to  each  patient.  These  approaches  may 
therefore  be  seen  as  alternatives  to  external  utilization 
controls.  Global  budgeting  defines  the  total  resources 
available  for  treating  all  patients,  and  may  be  seen  as 
an  alternative  to  health  planning.31  Reimbursement 
controls  have  the  same  goals  as  direct  regulation  of 
medical  practice  and  supply,  but  shift  the  responsibil¬ 
ity  for  decision-making  from  the  third-party  payer  or 
the  government  to  the  actual  providers  of  care.  In 
order  to  live  within  the  established  rates  or  budgets, 
the  providers  must  be  self-regulating;  they  must  make 


31  In  practice,  the  Canadian  system  uses  both  global  budgeting  and  health 
planning.  However,  some  of  the  rate  regulation  systems  in  the  United  States 
have  explicitly  superseded  the  health  planning  system.  A  facility  that  has  ob¬ 
tained  a  certificate  of  need  for  expansion  may  proceed  only  if  the  rate  com¬ 
mission  approves  the  necessary  increase  in  capital  costs.  For  a  discussion  of 
the  interplay  of  planning  and  rate  regulation,  see  Brown,  Common  Sense 
Meets  Implementation. 


35 


the  same  sorts  of  treatment  and  resource  allocation 
decisions  that  would  otherwise  have  been  imposed 
externally. 

As  the  Medicare  program  has  demonstrated,  it  is 
possible  for  a  single  payer  with  sufficient  market 
power  to  adopt  such  reimbursement  changes  on  its 
own.32  The  effects  of  this  unilateral  approach  in  a 
pluralistic  system  are  uncertain.  While  some  providers 
may  be  driven  to  improve  their  efficiency,  others  may 
instead  respond  to  shortfalls  in  reimbursement  from 
one  payer  by  raising  charges  to  other  groups,  those 
without  the  market  power  to  dictate  prices.  The  pos¬ 
sibility  of  “cost-shifting”  may  mean  that  savings  for 
one  purchaser  are  not  translated  into  real  reductions 
in  total  system  expenditures. 

In  a  sufficiently  competitive  market,  the  providers’ 
ability  to  engage  in  this  “cost-shifting”  may  be  lim¬ 
ited.  A  hospital  may  face,  not  only  payment  limits 
under  Medicare  and  Medicaid,  but  pressure  from  pri¬ 
vate  insurers  or  employer  groups  to  grant  price  dis¬ 
counts  in  order  to  be  assured  of  an  adequate  market 
share.  Characteristics  other  than  efficiency  may  deter¬ 
mine  a  provider’s  success  in  the  face  of  these  compet¬ 
ing  demands.  For  example,  a  suburban  non-teaching 
hospital  with  few  uninsured  patients  may  be  at  a  rela¬ 
tive  advantage  as  compared  to  a  center  city  teaching 
facility  with  a  heavy  uncompensated  care  load.  Indi¬ 
vidual  purchasers  who  reduce  their  costs  by  favoring 
the  suburban  hospital  may  leave  the  society  to  find 
some  other  means  of  subsidizing  essential  facilities 
that  are  handicapped  in  price  competition. 

A  system  in  which  multiple  payers  negotiate  indi¬ 
vidually  with  providers  may,  then,  lead  either  to  cost- 
shifting  or  to  a  situation  in  which  price  concerns 
override  other  societal  goals,  such  as  medical  educa¬ 
tion  and  charity  care.  For  this  reason,  some  people 
argue  that  real  efficiency  can  be  achieved  only  if  all 
payers  are  paying  under  the  same  rules. 

Uniform  ratesetting  is  common  in  other  industrial¬ 
ized  nations,  both  those  with  single-payer  health  in¬ 
surance  systems  (as  in  Canada)  and  those  where  many 
different  entities  provide  insurance  (as  in  West  Ger¬ 
many).  The  experience  in  the  United  States  is  limited 
to  experiments  in  a  few  States  beginning  in  the  1970s. 
Federal  waivers  of  Medicare  and  Medicaid  rules 
made  it  possible  for  those  two  payers  to  participate  in 
the  programs  on  a  demonstration  basis,  while  State 
laws  compelled  participation  by  private  insurers  and 
individual  payers,  resulting  in  an  “all-payer”  system. 


32  As  the  Medicaid  experience  has  shown,  adoption  of  payment  restraints 
by  a  payer  with  too  small  a  market  share  may  reduce  access  for  the  payer’s 
enrollees.  For  example,  low  reimbursement  rates  are  the  major  reason  physi¬ 
cians  decline  to  participate  in  the  Medicaid  program.  See  Congressional  Re¬ 
search  Service,  Medicaid  Source  Book,  448-454. 


Medicaid  law  now  permits  any  State  to  include  Med¬ 
icaid  in  such  a  system,  and  Medicare  may  be  included 
if  the  State  can  show  that  its  system  controls  costs  as 
effectively  as  PPS.  However,  full  “all-payer”  systems 
continue  only  in  Maryland  and  in  part  of  New  York 
State.  Several  other  States  operate  “partial-payer” 
systems  that  include  all  payers  except  Medicare.33 
These  systems  have  generally  used  the  price  aggrega¬ 
tion  approaches  described  above.  That  is,  they  either 
establish  a  rate  for  total  treatment  of  a  case  (as  under 
PPS)  or  they  establish  a  total  budget  for  a  hospital 
during  a  year,  setting  prices  for  the  hospital  in  such  a 
way  as  to  achieve  a  target  revenue  amount. 

It  has  been  shown  that,  in  6  States  with  ratesetting 
systems,  annual  increases  in  cost  per  admission  were 
consistently  3  to  4  percentage  points  below  the  na¬ 
tional  average  from  1976  to  1984.  During  the  same 
period,  however,  other  States  saw  a  drop  in  admis¬ 
sions  per  capita,  while  admissions  in  the  ratesetting 
States  were  stable.  As  a  result,  the  difference  in 
growth  in  per  capita  rates  of  spending  was  not  so 
striking:  per  capita  costs  rose  at  an  annual  rate  of  11.5 
percent  a  year  in  the  ratesetting  States  and  13  percent 
a  year  in  other  States.34  In  addition,  the  ratesetting 
States  had  much  higher  costs  at  the  outset  than  most 
other  States.  Some  observers  have  questioned 
whether  ratesetting  could  have  achieved  comparable 
savings  in  areas  where  costs  were  lower  to  begin 
with.35 

Evidence  from  other  countries  with  universal  rate¬ 
setting  systems  suggests  that  greater  savings  may  be 
possible.  In  Canada,  where  the  provinces  establish 
global  budgets  for  each  hospital,  hospital  expenditures 
per  capita  were  one-third  lower  than  in  the  United 
States  in  1985.  (Similar  systems  in  other  industrial  na¬ 
tions  have  been  less  successful.)  36  As  admission  rates 
are  not  markedly  lower,  there  is  considerable  uncer¬ 
tainty  about  the  sources  of  the  difference.  Some  of  the 
saving  may  be  in  administrative  costs,  simply  because 
the  hospitals  do  not  need  to  meet  the  paperwork  re¬ 
quirements  of  multiple  payers.  The  rest  of  the  differ¬ 
ence  is  often  attributed  to  differences  in  the  intensity 
of  the  services  furnished  to  each  patient.  Whether 
these  differences  reflect  “underservice”  in  Canada  or 


33  Maine’s  system  takes  hospitals’  Medicare  revenues  into  account  when 
determining  what  the  hospitals  may  charge  other  payers,  thus  achieving 
overall  budgetary  control  without  direct  Medicare  participation.  This  ap¬ 
proach  has  recently  survived  a  legal  challenge  by  hospitals. 

34  Carl  J.  Schramm,  Steven  C.  Renn,  and  Brian  Biles,  “New  Perspectives 
on  State  Rate-Setting,”  Health  Affairs  5  (3)  (Fall  1986):  22-33. 

35  Charles  L.  Eby  and  Donald  R.  Cohodes,  “What  Do  We  Know  About 
Rate-Setting?”  Journal  of  Health  Politics,  Policy,  and  Law  10  (2)  (Summer 
1985):  299-327. 

36  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-Operation  and  Development,  Financing 
and  Delivering  Health  Care:  A  Comparative  Analysis  of  OECD  Countries 
(OECD  Social  Policy  Studies  No.  4.)  (Paris:  1987),  63. 


36 


“overservice”  in  the  United  States  is  the  subject  of 
continuing  debate.37 

In  a  sense,  the  statistical  evidence  may  be  beside  the 
point.  An  all-payer  system  could  in  theory  fix  its 
prices  at  any  level,  with  the  potential  consequence  of 
reduced  access  or  quality  if  the  prices  are  set  too  low. 
The  available  data  may  thus  be  taken  as  indicating, 
not  the  savings  that  could  hypothetically  be  achieved, 
but  the  savings  that  were  politically  feasible  in  spe¬ 
cific  States  during  a  specific  period.  Continuing  pres¬ 
sure  by  consumers  and  providers  for  the  adoption  of 
new  medical  technologies  may  limit  the  ability  of 
ratesetting  systems  to  restrain  expenditure  growth 
over  the  long  term.  Even  in  Canada,  overall  medical 
expenditures  outpaced  inflation  by  2.9  percent  a  year 
in  the  period  1980-87,  almost  the  same  as  the  3.0  per¬ 
cent  annual  rate  observed  in  the  United  States  in  the 
same  years.38  The  ultimate  efficacy  of  reimbursement 
controls  may  depend,  in  the  same  way  that  the  suc¬ 
cess  of  health  planning  depends,  on  the  political  will 
to  constrain  health  care  consumption. 

That  political  will  might  in  turn  depend  on  percep¬ 
tions  of  the  impact  of  reimbursement  controls  on  the 
quality  of  care.  The  effect  of  Medicare’s  prospective 
payment  system,  for  example,  has  been  argued  con¬ 
tinuously  since  its  implementation  in  1983.  One  of  the 
immediate  responses  of  hospitals  to  the  incentives  of 
the  new  system  was  to  shorten  the  average  length  of 
stay  in  the  hospital  for  each  Medicare  patient  (al¬ 
though  average  length  of  stay  had  already  been  drop¬ 
ping  for  several  years).  Opponents  of  the  new  system 
have  contended  that  patients  were  being  discharged 
“quicker  and  sicker,”  transferred  to  their  own  homes 
or  to  nursing  homes  at  a  stage  in  their  recovery  when 
they  still  required  hospital-level  care.  Because  of  a 
lack  of  satisfactory  measures  of  medical  care  out¬ 
comes  for  large  populations,  evidence  on  this  issue  re¬ 
mains  largely  anecdotal.  Still,  the  possibility  that  there 
has  been  a  deterioration  in  quality  of  care  for  at  least 
some  Medicare  patients  since  the  implementation  of 
PPS  cannot  be  ruled  out.  The  hospitals  themselves 
argue  that  current  payment  levels  are  insufficient  to 
maintain  adequate  quality.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Administration  and  the  Prospective  Payment  Assess¬ 
ment  Commission  (the  independent  commission  that 
reviews  PPS)  have  argued  that  hospitals  are  still  not 
operating  at  peak  efficiency  and  that  further  payment 
restraint  is  needed  to  provide  continued  incentives  for 
cost  reduction.39 


37  For  a  variety  of  views  on  this  subject,  see  the  series  of  articles  on  Can¬ 
ada’s  hospital  system  in  Health  Affairs  7  (5)  (Winter  1988). 

38  Schieber  and  Poullier,  International  Health  Care  Expenditure  Trends: 

1987. 

39  U.S.  Prospective  Payment  Assessment  Commission,  Report  and  Recom¬ 
mendations  to  the  Secretary,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
(Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  March  1989);  For  a  recent 
review  of  hospital  cost  responses  to  PPS,  see  Steven  H.  Sheingold,  "The 


This  debate  illustrates  one  potential  dilemma  in  the 
strategy  of  achieving  savings  by  relying  on  the  politi¬ 
cal  process  to  limit  the  financial  resources  available  to 
providers.  On  the  one  hand,  legislators  driven  by 
budgetary  concerns  may  continue  to  ratchet  down 
spending  limits  until  they  have  clear  evidence  that 
quality  has  been  seriously  affected.  On  the  other 
hand,  provider  or  constituent  pressure  may  lead  them 
to  relax  those  limits  before  the  providers  have  done 
everything  possible  to  improve  their  efficiency.  Be¬ 
cause  no  one  knows  the  ideal  amount  to  spend  on 
medical  care,  some  people  say  that  this  process  can 
never  achieve  equilibrium  and  that  cost  control  efforts 
should  instead  depend  on  the  process  through  which 
other  sectors  of  the  economy  achieve  “correct” 
spending  levels:  the  free  market.  Proposals  for 
encouraging  competition  in  health  care  represent  the 
last  of  the  strategies  to  be  reviewed  in  this  report. 


Competition 

The  idea  of  reducing  health  care  costs  by  promot¬ 
ing  competition  in  the  health  care  marketplace  was 
first  advanced  in  the  1970s.  Some  analysts,  arguing 
that  such  initiatives  as  rate  regulation,  health  plan¬ 
ning,  and  utilization  review  had  been  compromised  by 
political  interference,  contended  that  the  free  market 
was  better  equipped  to  control  costs  than  Govern¬ 
ment  was.  By  the  early  1980s,  this  view  had  wide  cur¬ 
rency  and  had  become  the  official  policy  of  the 
Reagan  Administration.  Since  then,  there  has  been  a 
continuing  debate  between  advocates  of  competition 
and  those  who  favored  further  regulatory  inter¬ 
ventions  by  Government.  The  debate  has  been 
complicated  by  a  lack  of  agreement  over  what  “com¬ 
petition”  consists  of.  What  is  the  health  care  market? 
Who  are  the  purchasers,  and  what  are  they  buying? 

In  a  simple  market,  hospitals  and  physicians  would 
compete  directly  for  the  individual  consumer’s  dollar. 
The  consumer  would  pick  the  best  values  just  as  he 
or  she  does  when  buying  any  other  commodity.  As 
was  suggested  in  the  discussion  of  cost-sharing,  it  is 
not  clear  that  consumers  are  capable  of  making  such 
evaluations;  moreover,  many  purchasing  decisions  are 
made  by  physicians  on  their  patients’  behalf,  rather 
than  directly  by  consumers.  Finally,  because  few 
people  can  afford  the  costs  of  care  for  a  major  illness, 
most  of  the  consumer’s  dollar  is  spent  on  health  insur¬ 
ance,  not  on  medical  care  itself.  As  was  suggested 
earlier,  this  is  true  even  when  the  insurance  plan  im¬ 
poses  cost-sharing  requirements  on  enrollees,  because 
most  health  care  costs  are  incurred  by  a  relatively 


First  Three  Years  of  PPS:  Impact  on  Medicare  Costs,”  Health  Affairs  8  (3) 
(Fall  1989):  191-204. 


37 


small  number  of  high-cost  cases.  For  this  reason,  most 
proponents  of  competition  are  really  talking  about 
price  competition  among  insurers,  and  only  indirectly 
among  providers. 

If  the  insurer  is — as  traditional  health  insurance 
plans  were — a  passive  payer  for  services  obtained  by 
policyholders,  there  is  little  room  for  serious  price 
competition.  The  only  element  of  cost  that  the  insurer 
can  control  is  its  own  administrative  cost.  Competi¬ 
tion,  if  any,  may  turn  on  such  non-price  factors  as 
reputation  or  the  insurer’s  ability  to  screen  out  high- 
risk  applicants.40 

Competition  among  insurers  can  result  in  real  cost 
savings  only  if  the  insurers  have  some  influence  on 
the  costs  of  health  care  itself.  In  this  model,  insurers 
compete  to  offer  lower  prices  by  acting  as  prudent 
purchasers,  proxies  for  the  rational  consumer.  The  in¬ 
surers  are  selling  a  new  product,  no  longer  simply  in¬ 
surance,  but  “insured  health  care.’’  To  some  extent, 
this  new  insurance  market  has  already  arrived.  As 
was  suggested  earlier,  most  insurance  plans,  both 
public  and  private,  have  adopted  some  utilization 
control  measures.  Very  few  insurers  are  still  passive 
bill-payers. 

Once  all  insurers  have  adopted  these  basic  cost  con¬ 
trol  measures,  further  competition  would  presumably 
require  more  aggressive  interventions  by  insurers  in 
the  health  care  system.  Proponents  of  competition 
contemplate  a  marketplace  in  which  insurers  develop 
structured  delivery  systems,  with  the  highest  profits 
going  to  those  whose  networks  are  most  efficient. 
The  prototype  for  these  systems  is  the  HMO.  More 
recently,  some  insurers  have  been  experimenting  with 
hybrid  programs,  such  as  “point-of-service  plans,” 
that  are  less  structured  and  provide  somewhat  greater 
flexibility  to  enrollees. 

Health  Maintenance  Organizations — A  health  main¬ 
tenance  organization  (HMO)  is  a  form  of  health 
insurer;  like  any  other  insurer,  it  accepts  financial  re¬ 
sponsibility  for  a  defined  set  of  health  care  benefits  in 
return  for  a  fixed  monthly  per  capita  premium.  Unlike 
other  insurers,  HMOs  directly  provide  or  arrange  for 
health  care  services,  through  affiliated  physicians, 
hospitals,  and  other  providers.  The  enrollees  covered 
by  the  HMO  agree  to  obtain  all  services,  except  emer¬ 
gency  and  out-of-area  care,  from  or  with  the  authori¬ 
zation  of  the  HMO  or  its  affiliated  providers.  The 


40  Alain  Enthoven  has  summarized  the  alternatives  to  price  competition: 
“[Selection  of  preferred  risks,  market  segmentation,  product  differentiation 
that  raises  the  costs  of  comparing  products,  discontinuity  in  coverage,  refusal 
to  insure  certain  individuals  or  exclusion  of  coverage  for  treatment  of  pre¬ 
existing  medical  conditions,  biased  information  regarding  coverage  and  qual¬ 
ity,  and  erection  of  entry  barriers  [that  is,  to  new  competitors].”  Alain  C. 
Enthoven,  “Managed  Competition  of  Alternative  Delivery  Systems,”  Journal 
of  Health  Politics,  Policy  and  Law  13  (2)  (Summer  1988):  305-321. 


HMO  has  no  liability  to  pay  for  unauthorized  non¬ 
urgent  care  obtained  outside  the  organization.  Ordi¬ 
narily,  the  enrollee’s  point  of  entry  into  the  system  is 
through  a  single  primary  care  provider,  who  func¬ 
tions  as  a  “gatekeeper,”  determining  when  a  patient 
may  see  a  specialist  or  be  admitted  to  the  hospital. 
The  HMO  exerts  further  administrative  controls  on 
use  of  services  through  authorization  mechanisms 
and/or  treatment  protocols.  HMOs  also  use  a  variety 
of  other  cost-saving  techniques,  such  as  negotiated 
discounts  with  providers  and  payment  mechanisms 
that  place  individual  providers  at  risk  for  the  costs  of 
the  services  they  furnish  or  order. 

The  particular  cost-saving  techniques  adopted  by 
HMOs  and  other  “managed  care”  plans  are  not  funda¬ 
mentally  different  from  the  regulatory  approaches  de¬ 
scribed  in  the  preceding  sections.  An  HMO  imposes 
external  utilization  review  on  its  participating  pro¬ 
viders  and  may  develop  practice  guidelines  or  proto¬ 
cols.  Staff  or  group  practice  model  HMOs  (those  that 
employ  physicians  on  a  full-time  basis)  impose  supply 
constraints,  limiting  available  resources  to  those 
needed  by  their  membership.  Individual  practice  asso¬ 
ciations  (IPAs,  whose  physicians  practice  in  their  own 
offices  and  see  a  mix  of  HMO  and  non-HMO  patients) 
use  payment  methods  that  create  financial  incentives 
to  control  utilization,  such  as  capitation  or  expendi¬ 
ture  targets. 

One  additional  cost-saving  approach  that  was  once 
unique  to  HMOs  is  “gatekeeping.”  Under  a  gate- 
keeping  approach,  a  patient  receives  all  non-emer¬ 
gency  care  from,  or  with  the  authorization  of,  a  single 
primary  care  provider.  The  provider  thus  functions  as 
a  “gatekeeper,”  preventing  the  enrollee  from  inde¬ 
pendently  accessing  specialists  or  other  services  and 
presumably  managing  the  overall  care  of  the  patient. 
The  extent  to  which  gatekeeping  produces  savings 
over  and  above  those  provided  by  the  other  cost¬ 
saving  techniques  adopted  by  HMOs  is  uncertain.  The 
results  of  one  experiment,  the  SAFECO  health  plan 
operated  by  United  Healthcare  in  the  early  1980s, 
suggest  that  gatekeeping  alone  has  little  effect  on 
overall  cost.  While  primary  care  providers  reduced 
the  number  of  referrals  to  specialists,  they  were 
unable  to  control  the  behavior  of  the  specialists  once 
a  referral  had  occurred.  There  was  no  meaningful  re¬ 
duction  in  hospital  admissions,  70  percent  of  which 
were  controlled  by  the  specialists.41  Greater  success 


41  Stephen  Moore,  Diane  Martin,  and  William  Richardson,  “Does  the  Pri¬ 
mary-Care  Gatekeeper  Control  the  Costs  of  Health  Care?  Lessons  from  the 
SAFECO  Experience,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  309  (22)  (Decem¬ 
ber  1,  1983):  1400-1404;  For  the  extent  to  which  specialty  referrals  may  de¬ 
termine  overall  costs,  see  John  K.  Glenn,  Frank  H.  Lawler,  and  Mark  S. 
Hoerl,  “Physician  Referrals  in  a  Competitive  Environment:  An  Estimate  of 
the  Economic  Impact  of  a  Referral,”  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Associa¬ 
tion  258  (14)  (October  9,  1987):  1920-1923. 


38 


has  been  reported  by  some  State  Medicaid  programs, 
which  have  established  “primary  care  case  manage¬ 
ment”  programs  for  segments  of  their  covered  popu¬ 
lations.  Gatekeeping  reduced  such  inappropriate 
behaviors  as  the  use  of  emergency  rooms  for  primary 
care.  However,  the  utilization  patterns  addressed  by 
these  programs  may  be  characteristic  of  Medicaid 
beneficiaries  in  the  inner  city  and  not  of  other  groups; 
it  is  not  clear  that  equivalent  savings  could  be 
achieved  with  a  general  population.  There  is  some 
evidence  that  most  patients’  care  is  already  “man¬ 
aged”  by  their  primary  care  physicians,  at  least  to  the 
extent  that  it  is  managed  under  formal  gatekeeping 
arrangements.42 

Aside  from  the  uncertain  effects  of  gatekeeping, 
managed  care  depends  on  the  same  kinds  of  interven¬ 
tions  in  medical  care  practice,  supply,  and  financing 
that  might  otherwise  be  attempted  on  a  regulatory 
basis.  The  difference  is  that,  instead  of  relying  on  the 
political  process  to  make  decisions  about  the  alloca¬ 
tion  of  health  care  resources,  managed  care  privatizes 
these  decisions.  The  choice  among  alternative  cost 
control  methods — and  the  stringency  with  which 
these  methods  will  be  applied — will  be  made  by  the 
free  market.  The  fundamental  contention  of  propo¬ 
nents  of  the  competitive  approach  is  that  the  market 
can  impose  discipline  on  the  health  care  system  that 
cannot  be  imposed  through  external  regulation. 

This  contention  rests  on  two  key  assumptions:  first, 
that  buyers  will,  all  other  things  being  equal,  select 
the  most  cost-effective  plan;  second,  that  managed 
care  offers  greater  cost-saving  potential  than  the  vari¬ 
ous  regulatory’  controls  described  earlier. 

One  critical  factor  has  made  it  difficult  to  general¬ 
ize  about  the  efficacy  of  HMOs  as  a  cost-saving  ap¬ 
proach:  the  problem  of  “biased  selection”  in  systems 
that  allow  a  choice  between  a  conventional  health  in¬ 
surance  plan  and  an  HMO.  Numerous  studies  of  such 
“dual  choice”  employer  group  plans  have  shown  that 
the  members  of  the  group  choosing  the  HMO  option 
used  fewer  health  services  before  their  enrollment 
than  persons  who  chose  a  conventional  plan.  Similar 
patterns  have  been  observed  in  Medicare  HMO  en¬ 
rollment.43  This  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  HMO 
enrollees  were  healthier.  Studies  using  self-reported 
condition  and  similar  limited  measures  of  health  status 
have  found  no  difference  between  HMO  and  indem¬ 
nity  enrollees.  It  may  be,  then,  that  HMO  enrollees 

41  AJ.  Dietrich,  et  aL,  “Do  Primary  Physicians  Actually  Manage  Their 
Patients’  Fee-for-Service  Care?”  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association 
259  (21)  (June  3.  1988):  3145-3149. 

43  For  a  review  of  the  evidence,  see  General  Accounting  Office,  Medicare : 
Increase  in  HMO  Reimbursement  Would  Eliminate  Potential  Savings  Report  to 
the  Chairman.  Subcommittee  on  Health,  House  Committee  on  Ways  and 
Means  (Washington.  D.C.:  November  1989).  [GAO/HRD-90-38] 


are  simply  less  prone  to  seek  health  services,  regard¬ 
less  of  their  condition.44 

In  groups  that  have  no  HMO  option  but  do  offer  a 
choice  between  high-  and  low-option  plans  the 
common  selection  pattern  is  for  the  higher  users  of 
services  to  choose  the  more  comprehensive  plan.45  In 
most  group  health  programs  offering  a  choice  be¬ 
tween  HMOs  and  conventional  plans,  the  HMO  op¬ 
tions  offer  more  comprehensive  coverage,  with  less 
enrollee  cost-sharing,  than  even  a  high-option  conven¬ 
tional  plan.  That  higher  users  of  services  still  prefer 
the  conventional  plan  suggests  that  non-fmancial  as¬ 
pects  of  HMOs  affect  the  decision,  such  as  limited 
choice  of  providers,  bureaucratic  constraints  on  treat¬ 
ment,  or  waiting  time  for  non-urgent  care.  There  is 
stronger  evidence  of  biased  selection  for  staff  and 
group  model  HMOs,  the  most  restrictive,  than  for 
IP  As,  which  are  less  likely  to  disrupt  enrollees’  tradi¬ 
tional  ways  of  obtaining  medical  care. 

Possible  solutions  to  the  problem  of  selection  bias 
will  be  discussed  further  below.  One  immediate  con¬ 
sequence,  however,  is  that  the  differences  between  the 
populations  in  HMOs  and  conventional  plans  have 
made  it  difficult  to  determine  whether  HMOs  are 
actually  more  efficient  than  other  insurers.  Only  one 
major  study  has  corrected  adequately  for  this  prob¬ 
lem.  In  a  second  component  of  the  RAND  Health  In¬ 
surance  Experiment  (HIE)  cited  earlier,  enrollees 
were  randomly  assigned  to  the  Group  Health  Cooper¬ 
ative  of  Puget  Sound  and  an  equally  comprehensive 
conventional  plan;  neither  plan  required  cost-sharing. 
This  arrangement  allowed  comparisons  of  efficiency 
with  identical  benefits  and  populations  with  com¬ 
parable  health  needs.  The  results  strongly  confirmed 
the  cost-saving  potential  of  the  HMO.  The  HMO  en¬ 
rollees  had  40  percent  fewer  hospital  admissions;  their 
use  of  ambulatory  services  was  about  the  same  as  that 
of  the  conventional  enrollees.  Overall,  costs  for  the 
HMO  group  were  estimated  to  be  28  percent  lower 
than  for  the  control  group.46  There  were  no  per¬ 
ceived  effects  on  quality;  measures  of  health  outcomes 
w’ere  generally  the  same  for  both  groups.47 


44  Fred  J.  Hellinger.  “Selection  Bias  in  Health  Maintenance  Organizations: 
.Analysis  of  Recent  Evidence,”  Health  Care  Financing  Review  9  (2)  (Winter 
1987):  55-63. 

45  Robert  W.  Broyles  and  Michael  D.  Rosko,  “The  Demand  for  Health 
Insurance  and  Health  Care:  A  Review  of  the  Empirical  Literature,”  Medical 
Care  Review  45  (2)  (Fall  1988):  291-338. 

46  Willard  G.  Manning,  et  al.,  “A  Controlled  Trial  of  the  Effect  of  a  Pre¬ 
paid  Group  Practice  on  Use  of  Services,"  Sew  England  Journal  of  Medicine 
310  (23)  (June  7,  1984):  1505-1510. 

47  John  E.  Ware  Jr.,  et  al.,  “Comparison  of  Health  Outcomes  at  a  Health 
Maintenance  Organisation  With  Those  of  Fee-for-Service  Care,"  Lancet 
(May  3.  1986):  1017-1022.  One  group,  low-income  HMO  enrollees  with  exist¬ 
ing  health  problems,  had  poorer  outcomes,  possibly  because  of  difficulty 
dealing  with  the  HMO’s  internal  bureaucracy. 


39 


While  the  HIE  findings  are  persuasive,  two  factors 
may  limit  the  general  applicability  of  the  results.  First, 
the  study  was  conducted  in  the  late  1970s;  the  com¬ 
parison  plan  was  the  passive  bill-payer  prevalent  in 
the  insurance  industry  in  that  period,  with  no  utiliza¬ 
tion  control  mechanisms.  The  more  recent  adoption 
by  conventional  plans  of  some  of  the  cost-control 
measures  once  associated  only  with  HMOs  may  mean 
that  the  difference  in  efficiency  between  the  two 
types  of  plan  has  narrowed. 

Second,  the  HMO  used  in  the  Health  Insurance  Ex¬ 
periment  was  a  highly  structured  group-practice  plan 
with  many  years  of  operating  experience.  Much  of  the 
growth  in  the  industry  in  recent  years  has  involved  a 
different  type  of  HMO,  the  individual  practice  asso¬ 
ciation  (IPA),  which  contracts  with  independent  phy¬ 
sicians  who  see  a  mix  of  HMO  enrollees  and  other 
kinds  of  patients.  There  is  evidence  that  these  more 
loosely  structured  HMOs  have  not  achieved  savings 
comparable  to  those  observed  in  the  HIE.48  Physi¬ 
cians  may  not  modify  their  styles  of  practice  in  treat¬ 
ing  HMO  enrollees  if  those  enrollees  constitute  only  a 
small  share  of  their  practice.  In  addition,  some  people 
believe  that  HMOs  cannot  impose  cost-consciousness 
on  practitioners  who  have  not  “signed  on”  to  the  con¬ 
cept  of  more  efficient  and  less  resource-intensive  prac¬ 
tice.  Because  so  little  is  still  known  about  the  relative 
efficacy  of  different  medical  practices,  external  utiliza¬ 
tion  controls  may  not  be  able  to  override  individual 
physicians’  judgment  in  many  cases.  The  greater  suc¬ 
cess  of  the  “closed  panel”  plan,  whose  physicians 
treat  HMO  enrollees  exclusively,  has  been  attributed 
by  some  observers  to  the  possibility  that  these  plans 
attract  physicians  who  are  temperamentally  more 
prone  to  conservative  medical  practice. 

Because  closed  panel  plans  maintain  their  own  med¬ 
ical  facilities,  they  require  greater  start-up  funding 
than  IPAs.  Federal  funds  were  available  to  develop 
such  plans  in  the  1970s,  but  new  plans  must  now  rely 
on  private  investment.  Investors  have  favored  IPAs, 
not  only  because  they  require  less  capital,  but  also  be¬ 
cause  the  wider  selection  of  physicians  makes  them 
more  attractive  to  consumers.  This  attraction  may, 
however,  be  purchased  at  the  price  of  reduced 
efficiency. 

Finally,  while  some  types  of  HMOs  or  similar  orga¬ 
nizations  may  be  able  to  reduce  costs  relative  to  con¬ 
ventional  plans,  it  is  not  clear  that  they  have  so  far 
reduced  growth  in  health  care  costs.  Data  from  1961 
through  1981  suggest  that  HMOs  may  instead  achieve 


48  For  the  most  recent  findings,  see  Alan  Hillman,  Mark  Pauly,  and  Joseph 
Kerstein,  “How  Do  Financial  Incentives  Affect  Physicians’  Clinical  Deci¬ 
sions  and  the  Financial  Performance  of  Health  Maintenance  Organizations?” 
New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  321  (2)  (July  13,  1989):  86-92. 


a  one-time  saving,  after  which  costs  rise  at  the  same 
rate  as  those  for  other  insurance  programs.  One  expla¬ 
nation  that  has  been  offered  is  that  providers  in 
HMOs  are  as  likely  as  other  providers  to  use  new 
medical  technologies.49  More  recent  data  suggest  that 
HMO  premium  increases  have  continued  to  resemble 
those  of  conventional  insurance  plans.  The  average 
HMO  premium  increase  during  1988  was  17.2  per¬ 
cent,  very  close  to  the  19  percent  increase  for  all  em¬ 
ployer  coverage  cited  at  the  beginning  of  this 
report.50 

That  HMO  cost  increases  have  paralleled  those  of 
other  insurers  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  HMOs 
have  reached  the  limit  of  their  cost-saving  potential. 
Because  competition  among  health  insurers  was  rela¬ 
tively  limited  until  recent  years,  many  HMOs  may  not 
have  faced  the  market  pressures  that  could  induce 
them  to  achieve  greater  savings.  The  next  section  re¬ 
views  proposals  to  strengthen  competition. 

Competition  and  Consumer  Choice — The  competi¬ 
tive  strategy  depends  on  the  willingness  of  consumers 
to  choose  the  most  cost-effective  plans.  As  was  sug¬ 
gested  earlier,  the  consumers  most  likely  to  incur  high 
costs  may  be  least  likely  to  choose  the  most  efficient 
option.  The  problem  of  biased  selection  might  persist 
even  if  conventional  insurance  plans  were  to  disap¬ 
pear  and  consumers  were  able  to  choose  only  among 
managed  care  options.  (Some  industry  analysts  believe 
this  will  occur  in  the  near  future,  chiefly  because  em¬ 
ployers  will  refuse  to  offer  conventional  plans.)  It  is 
possible  that  the  most  costly  patients,  given  a  choice 
among  competing  managed  care  plans,  would  choose 
the  plan  that  was  least  restrictive  and  potentially  least 
able  to  achieve  cost  savings.  The  most  efficient  plans 
might  continue  to  enroll  the  healthiest  patients,  for 
whom  only  limited  savings  are  possible. 

Some  people  believe  that  biased  selection  is  largely 
attributable  to  the  fact  that  consumers  are  economi¬ 
cally  sheltered  from  the  cost  of  their  choice  of  plan, 
because  most  of  the  premium  is  paid  by  the  employer. 
Various  schemes  have  been  advanced  to  make  the 
employee  more  cost-conscious.  For  example,  the  em¬ 
ployer’s  contribution  might  be  tied  to  the  cost  of  the 
least  expensive  offering,  with  the  employee  bearing 
the  full  cost  of  the  difference  between  that  plan  and 
other  more  expensive  options. 


49  Joseph  P.  Newhouse,  et  al.,  “Are  Fee-for-Service  Costs  Increasing 
Faster  Than  HMO  Costs?”  Medical  Care  23  (8)  (August  1985):  960-966. 

50  InterStudy,  The  Bottom  Line:  HMO  Premiums  and  Profitability,  1988- 
1989  (Excelsior,  Minn.:  1989).  Staff  and  group  model  HMOs  generally  had 
lower  increases,  possibly  confirming  their  greater  efficiency.  However,  these 
HMOs  also  tend  to  be  older  than  IPAs;  age  of  the  HMO  was  also  a  determi¬ 
nant  of  the  rate  of  increase. 


40 


However,  selection  bias  can  occur  even  when  the 
choice  of  the  more  expensive  plan  has  real  financial 
consequences  for  the  enrollee.  Under  the  Federal  Em¬ 
ployees  Health  Benefits  Program  (FEHBP),  the 
monthly  employee  share  of  premium  costs  in  1990 
ranges  from  $20.54  in  the  least  expensive  high-option 
HMO  to  $234.07  in  the  most  costly  high-option  con¬ 
ventional  plan,  a  difference  of  $213.53  per  month.51 
Under  one  possible  fixed  contribution  scheme,  the 
Federal  share  of  both  plans  would  be  set  equal  to  the 
full  cost  of  the  HMO  ($82.16);  the  employee  share 
would  then  be  zero  for  the  HMO  and  $265.29  for  the 
conventional  plan.  If  some  Federal  employees  or  an¬ 
nuitants  are  already  willing  to  pay  11  times  as  much 
as  others  in  order  to  obtain  the  conventional  plan,  it  is 
not  clear  that  even  this  change  would  cause  all  of 
them  to  shift  to  the  HMO.  For  at  least  some  subset  of 
enrollees,  the  preference  for  unrestricted  coverage  is 
apparently  sufficient  to  override  even  strong  financial 
incentives. 

One  possible  solution  to  the  problem  of  enrollee 
self-selection  is  to  abandon  multiple  choices  and 
oblige  all  members  of  a  covered  group  to  enter  a 
single  plan,  one  selected  by  the  employer  or  other 
buyer  from  among  competing  plans.  Assuming  that 
employers  disregarded  their  own  personal  plan  prefer¬ 
ences  and  chose  the  least  costly  option,  this  approach 
would  theoretically  lead  to  competition  among  plans 
on  the  basis  of  efficiency.  However,  both  employers 
and  HMOs  have  been  hesitant  to  enter  into  arrange¬ 
ments  under  which  enrollees  are  unwillingly  locked 
into  a  highly  restrictive  plan.  For  this  reason,  there 
have  evolved  arrangements  even  less  restrictive  than 
IPAs,  known  as  open-ended  or  point-of-service  plans. 

The  predecessor  of  these  plans  is  the  preferred  pro¬ 
vider  organization  (PPO).  PPOs  negotiate  discounted 
rates  with  certain  providers.  Enrollees  are  given  a  fi¬ 
nancial  incentive,  in  the  form  of  reduced  deductible 
or  coinsurance  requirements,  to  obtain  care  from  pro¬ 
viders  participating  in  the  PPO  network.  However, 
payment  will  be  made  under  the  plan  for  services  fur¬ 
nished  by  any  provider.  PPOs  thus  differ  from 
HMOs,  which  deny  payment  altogether  for  unauthor¬ 
ized  non-emergent  care  provided  by  providers  outside 
the  HMO  network.  While  some  PPOs  have  adopted 
managed  care  techniques,  such  as  the  use  of  gate¬ 
keepers,  most  of  the  savings  from  a  PPO  are  expected 
to  result  from  encouraging  enrollees  to  use  the  par¬ 
ticipating  providers. 

The  newer,  open-ended  plans  are  hybrids,  combin¬ 
ing  some  features  of  HMOs  and  PPOs.  Typically,  the 


51  The  conventional  plan  is  national,  while  HMOs  are  offered  only  in  spe¬ 
cific  locations.  The  comparison  presented  here  applies  only  in  one  area 
(Tampa,  Fla.)  and  represents  the  extreme  of  variation  in  the  FEHBP  system. 


plan  operates  a  structured  health  care  system  compa¬ 
rable  to  that  of  an  IPA-model  HMO.  Enrollees  are 
expected  to  access  the  system  through  a  primary  care 
gatekeeper  and  obtain  services  from  other  network 
providers  upon  referral  by  the  gatekeeper.  Like  an 
HMO,  the  plan  also  imposes  external  utilization  con¬ 
trols  and  negotiates  price  discounts  with  providers. 
As  in  a  PPO,  enrollees  are  free  to  use  non-network 
providers  for  covered  services,  but  must  pay  higher 
cost-sharing  amounts  if  they  choose  to  do  so.  En¬ 
rollees  are  also  subject  to  higher  cost-sharing  if  they 
use  specialists  within  the  network  without  the  authori¬ 
zation  of  the  gatekeeper. 

Open-ended  plans  have  been  adopted  by  some  em¬ 
ployers  as  the  single  plan  available  to  their  workers, 
replacing  systems  in  which  the  workers  had  a  choice 
between  conventional  and  HMO  options.  Their  at¬ 
traction  has  been  that  they  overcome  the  possible  se¬ 
lection  bias  in  dual  choice  systems  by  enrolling  all 
employees  in  an  HMO-like  program.  At  the  same 
time,  they  can  reduce  the  employee  resistance  that 
would  probably  greet  a  proposal  for  universal  HMO 
enrollment,  because  they  offer  employees  the  safety 
valve  of  being  able  to  choose  non-plan  providers. 

Officials  of  some  major  insurers  that  have  experi¬ 
mented  with  open-ended  plans  in  multiple  markets 
report  that  the  plans  appear  to  be  reducing  the  rate  of 
health  care  cost  increases,  relative  to  the  increases  for 
their  conventional  offerings  in  the  same  markets.52 
Because  these  plans  began  operations  only  very  re¬ 
cently,  the  data  required  for  an  objective  evaluation 
are  not  yet  available.  Even  PPOs,  which  have  existed 
for  a  decade,  have  never  been  the  subject  of  a  con¬ 
trolled  study.  Some  preliminary  findings,  however, 
suggest  that  the  safety  valve  that  makes  PPOs  attrac¬ 
tive  is  potentially  a  serious  weakness,  one  which  may 
carry  over  to  the  newer  hybrid  plans. 

One  recent  study  of  a  PPO  found  that  enrollees 
used  the  PPO’s  providers  for  preventive  care  and 
minor  illnesses,  but  went  outside  the  network  about 
half  the  time  for  specialty  care,  major  surgery,  and 
hospitalization  without  surgery.53  One  study  found  a 
similar  pattern  among  PPO  enrollees  who  were  actu¬ 
ally  employees  of  one  of  the  providers  in  the  PPO 
network.54  While  these  findings  are  not  definitive, 
they  suggest  a  dilemma  that  may  be  common  to  both 
PPOs  and  the  newer  types  of  managed  care  plans.  If 
the  price  for  going  out  of  plan  is  not  punitive,  en- 


52  Personal  communication  with  officials  of  Prudential  and  CIGNA. 

53  Annemarie  Wouters  and  James  Hester,  “Patient  Choice  of  Providers  in 
a  Preferred  Provider  Organization,"  Medical  Care  26  (3)  (March  1988):  240- 
255.  The  results  may  not  be  fully  representative,  because  the  PPO  studied 
was  somewhat  skewed  towards  primary  care  providers. 

54  Paula  Diehr,  et  al.,  “Use  of  a  Preferred  Provider  by  Employees  of  the 
Preferred  Provider,”  Health  Services  Research  23  (4)  (October  1988):  537-554. 


41 


rollees  may  obtain  much  of  their  care  outside  the 
network;  if  the  price  is  set  high  enough  to  deter  out¬ 
side  utilization,  the  plan  may  lose  its  relative 
attractiveness. 

Both  solutions  to  the  biased  selection  problem, 
higher  premiums  for  the  non-HMO  plan  or  higher 
cost-sharing  for  using  non-HMO  providers,  may  then 
face  the  same  potential  barrier:  the  highest-risk  en- 
rollees,  those  for  whom  the  greatest  potential  savings 
presumably  exist,  may  be  willing  to  pay  much  more 
out-of-pocket  to  retain  free  choice  of  providers  and 
avoid  bureaucratic  restrictions.  While  the  problem 
might  be  overcome  by  making  the  cost  of  unrestricted 
health  care  prohibitive,  this  solution  may  be  fore¬ 
closed  by  the  potential  strain  on  labor  relations  (or,  in 
the  case  of  public  programs,  political  resistance). 

One  other  solution  that  has  been  proposed  is  to  go 
to  the  roots  of  consumer  resistance  to  managed  care, 
the  concern  about  quality.  Some  analysts  argue  that, 
because  consumers  have  little  information  about  the 
relative  quality  of  different  medical  care  providers, 
they  must  rely  on  “signals”  of  quality  sent  out  by  var¬ 
ious  providers,  such  as  the  use  of  elaborate  technol¬ 
ogy  or  aggressive  medical  treatment  styles.55  If  the 
persons  with  the  highest  expectation  of  requiring 
medical  services  will  accept  financial  sacrifices  to 
avoid  managed  care  programs,  this  may  be  because 
they  cannot  evaluate  the  care  offered  by  such  pro¬ 
grams  and  wish  to  remain  free  to  seek  out  the 
providers  who  more  actively  signal  quality.  This  pref¬ 
erence  might  be  overcome  if  consumers  had  reliable 
data  on  the  actual  quality  of  the  care  furnished  by  dif¬ 
ferent  providers  or  provider  systems  such  as  HMOs. 

This  view  has  led  to  such  proposals  as  the  “buy 
right”  plan  advanced  by  Walter  McClure  of  the 
Center  for  Policy  Studies  in  Minnesota.  Under  this 
plan,  a  community  would  collect  and  make  available 
to  consumers  uniform  data  on  patient  outcomes  from 


55  For  an  elaboration  of  this  theory,  see  James  C.  Robinson,  “Hospital 
Quality  Competition  and  the  Economics  of  Imperfect  Information,”  Milbank 
Quarterly  66  (3)  (1988):  465-481. 


all  providers.  Consumers  would  then  be  in  a  position 
to  determine  whether  the  higher  cost  providers  were 
actually  furnishing  superior  care  and  could  thus  make 
rational  purchasing  decisions.  The  proposal  assumes 
that  the  community  can  agree  on  objective  measures 
of  quality.  Past  efforts  to  develop  uniform  bases  of 
comparison  have  been  controversial.  For  example,  the 
annual  release  by  the  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis¬ 
tration  of  mortality  data  for  Medicare  beneficiaries  in 
hospitals  has  been  criticized  on  the  grounds  that  nu¬ 
merous  factors  other  than  relative  proficiency  can 
affect  the  death  rates  of  hospital  patients.  Highly  spe¬ 
cialized  facilities  may  be  treating  the  most  seriously  ill 
patients;  facilities  serving  a  low-income  population 
may  find  that  more  of  their  patients  have  delayed 
medical  treatment  beyond  the  point  at  which  they 
could  be  helped.  Full  implementation  of  the  “buy 
right”  strategy  might  have  to  wait  until  research  can 
provide  acceptable  standardized  outcome  measures. 

Assuming  that  those  measures  can  be  developed, 
how  would  competition  then  work?  Consumers 
would  be  fully  informed  about  the  relative  price  and 
quality  of  competing  health  plans,  and  would  thus  be 
equipped  to  make  medical  care  purchasing  decisions 
in  the  same  way  that  they  decide  about  other  pur¬ 
chases.  Proponents  of  competition  argue  that  the 
power  of  the  market  would  then  compel  all  providers 
to  make  steady  improvements  in  both  quality  and  effi¬ 
ciency.  However,  if  the  health  care  market  could  be 
induced  to  evolve  in  the  same  way  as  other  markets, 
it  is  not  necessarily  the  case  that  the  end  product 
would  be  a  single  class  of  providers  uniformly  striv¬ 
ing  to  achieve  the  same  goals.  The  health  care  market 
could  instead  be  segmented  in  the  way  that  the  mar¬ 
kets  for  other  goods  and  services  are;  there  might  be 
economy  and  luxury  health  plans  just  as  there  are 
economy  and  luxury  automobiles.  Improving  the  in¬ 
formation  available  to  health  care  consumers  might 
mean  only  that  buyers  would  be  better  able  to  distin¬ 
guish  between  the  two,  not  that  the  distinction  would 
cease  to  exist.  Whether  Americans  are  prepared  to 
accept  the  same  price/quality  tradeoffs  in  buying 
medical  care  that  they  do  in  buying  other  products  is 
an  open  question. 


42 


MEDICAL  MALPRACTICE 


Paul  Weiler  and  Troyen  A.  Brennan  * 


INTRODUCTION 

Medical  malpractice  is  the  branch  of  the  law  that 
deals  with  injuries  suffered  by  patients  in  the  course 
of  their  treatment  by  doctors  or  other  health  care  pro¬ 
viders.  The  legal  doctrines  in  this  area  remain  firmly 
rooted  in  the  traditional  tort-fault  principle — a  doctor 
is  liable  for  a  patient’s  injuries  if  and  only  if  these  in¬ 
juries  were  caused  by  the  doctor’s  negligence.  Law¬ 
yers  and  judges  have  long  debated  the  question  of 
whether  this  legal  regime  secures  adequate  com¬ 
pensation  and  corrective  justice  for  already  injured 
patients,  and  safer  and  better  quality  care  for  future 
patients.  In  the  past  two  decades  this  debate  has 
emerged  into  the  popular  and  political  arena,  as  doc¬ 
tors  and  hospitals  have  confronted  steep  and  sudden 
increases  in  malpractice  litigation  and  premiums. 

In  the  last  year,  the  country  has  emerged  from  its 
second  outburst  of  malpractice  premium  increases.  In¬ 
surers  maintained  that  premiums  were  driven  upwards 
by  increasing  rates  of  claims  and  increasing  average 
payments  on  successful  claims.  Premium  hikes  from 
1983  through  1986  culminated  in  a  total  premium  bill 
for  malpractice  liability  insurance  of  $6  billion  in 
1987,  up  from  $60  million  in  1960  (while  medical 
costs  were  rising  to  over  $500  billion,  up  from  $25  bil¬ 
lion  in  1960).  Over  the  last  two  years,  premiums  have 
moderated,  and  in  some  high-risk  states  have  even 
fallen.1  However,  for  reasons  we  will  sketch  in  this 


*  A  background  paper  prepared  for  the  Pepper  Commission  by  Paul 
Weiler,  Professor  of  Law,  Harvard  Law  School;  Chief  Reporter,  American 
Law  Institute  Project  on  Compensation  and  Liability  for  Product  and  Proc¬ 
ess  Injury  and  Member,  Harvard  Medical  Practice  Study  and  Troyen  A. 
Brennan,  Assistant  Professor,  Harvard  Medical  School;  Lecturer  on  Law, 
Harvard  Law  School;  Consultant,  American  Law  Institute  Project  on  Com¬ 
pensation  and  Liability  for  Product  and  Process  Injury  and  Member,  Har¬ 
vard  Medical  Practice  Study,  February  21,  1990. 

1  See  “Medical  Malpractice  Insurance  Rates  Fall,”  Wall  Street  Journal, 
April  28,  1989,  B-l  and  “Costs  of  Medical  Malpractice  Drop  After  an  11 
Year  Climb,”  New  York  Times,  June  11,  1989,  Al,  col.  2. 

In  1986  and  1987,  during  the  height  of  the  increase  in  premiums,  predic¬ 
tions  regarding  the  costs  of  premiums  in  1988  ranged  between  8.5  and  10.2 
billion  dollars.  See  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Report  of  the 
Task  Force  on  Medical  Liability  and  Malpractice  (August  1987)  4. 


paper,  it  is  doubtful  that  the  spiral  of  the  mid-1980s 
will  be  the  last.  We  can  expect,  and  we  should  be 
better  prepared  to  handle,  another  bout  of  the  prob¬ 
lems  inherent  in  our  system  of  malpractice  litigation. 

Many  of  these  problems  are  rooted  in  the  volatility 
of  malpractice  insurance  premiums.  Historically,  mal¬ 
practice  premiums  have  followed  a  path  of  sudden 
steep  increases  followed  by  a  few  years  of  modera¬ 
tion.2  After  a  slow,  but  steady  upward  trend  through¬ 
out  the  1960s,  total  premiums  doubled  from  1974  to 
1976,  reaching  the  billion  dollar  mark  in  that  latter 
year.3  By  1982,  the  nation’s  bill  for  premiums  had 
passed  $2  billion,  and  then  spiralled  again  to  $6  billion 
by  1987. 4 

One  should  put  these  aggregate  costs  of  medical 
malpractice  insurance  in  perspective,  by  relating  them 
to  the  total  health  care  costs  for  the  nation.  In  1987, 
when  health  care  costs  were  roughly  $500  billion, 
medical  malpractice  premiums  consumed  slightly 
more  than  one  percent  of  our  health  care  dollars  (up 


2  Throughout  this  discussion,  we  rely  on  several  empirical  studies  of  pre¬ 
miums.  Among  these  are:  National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners, 
Medical  Malpractice  Closed  Claims,  1975-1978  (1980);  General  Accounting 
Office,  Medical  Malpractice  Insurance  Costs  (Washington,  D.C.:  1986);  Gen¬ 
eral  Accounting  Office,  Medical  Malpractice:  Characteristics  of  Claims  Closed 
in  1984  (Washington,  D.C.:  1987);  New  York  State  Department  of  Health, 
Physicians  Malpractice  Claims  Closed  1980-1983  (1986)  (NY  Closed-Claims 
Study);  Florida  Academic  Task  Force  for  the  Review  of  the  Insurance  and 
Tort  System,  Preliminary  Fact  Finding  Report  on  Medical  Malpractice  (1987) 
(Florida  Academic  Task  Force).  More  recent  data  includes:  Danzon,  “Medi¬ 
cal  Malpractice  Liability,”  in  Liability:  Perspectives  and  Policy,  eds.  Litan  and 
Winston  (1988),  101-127;  Sloan  and  Bovbjerg,  Medical  Malpractice:  Crisis  Re¬ 
sponse  and  Effects  (Health  Insurance  Association  of  America,  1989);  and  Phy¬ 
sicians  and  Surgeons  Update:  The  Saint  Paul's  1989  Annual  Report  to  Policy 
Holders  (1989).  This  latter  document  has  the  most  recent  data  available  re¬ 
garding  the  premiums  of  St.  Paul’s,  the  major  national  malpractice  carrier, 
which  announced  there  will  be  a  14.1  percent  decrease  effective  July  1,  1989. 

3  See  Danzon,  The  Frequency  and  Severity  of  Malpractice  Claims.  (Santa 
Monica,  Calif.:  The  Rand  Corporation)  (R-2870-ICJ/HCFA),  1982. 

4  The  General  Accounting  Office  had  estimated  that  insurance  costs  for 
physicians  in  hospitals  increased  from  2.5  billion  dollars  in  1983  to  4.7  billion 
dollars  in  1985.  General  Accounting  Office,  Medical  Malpractice:  Framework 
for  Action  (Washington,  D.C.:  1987)  2.  The  American  Medical  Association  es¬ 
timated  that  professional  liability  premiums  were  5.7  billion  dollars  in  1985. 
American  Medical  Association,  Trends  in  Health  Care  (Chicago:  AMA), 
1987. 


43 


from  .5%  of  health  care  dollars  in  I960).5  True,  $4 
billion  of  these  premiums  charges  were  borne  by  phy¬ 
sicians,  as  compared  with  $103  billion  spent  on  physi¬ 
cians  services.  But  while  malpractice  premiums  do 
represent  a  somewhat  higher  share  of  physician  serv¬ 
ices,  four  percent  of  gross  physician  revenues  is  not 
an  extraordinarily  high  bill  to  pay  for  liability 
insurance. 

These  overall  figures,  however,  tend  to  understate 
the  acuteness  of  the  problem  in  specific  situations. 
There  is  a  great  deal  of  variation  in  premiums  by  spe¬ 
cialty  and  by  geographic  location.6  For  example, 
while  general  practitioners  in  Indiana  or  allergists  in 
Arkansas  paid  less  than  $2000  in  1985, 7  obstetricians 
or  neurosurgeons  in  New  York  City  were  paying  (or 
having  paid  on  their  behalf)  from  $150,000  to 
$200,000  annually.8  Even  more  disruptive  is  the  fact 
noted  earlier  that  premiums  increased  very  quickly  in 
the  mid  1970s  and  in  the  mid  1980s.  For  instance,  in 
many  large  states,  surgical  and  obstetrical  premiums 
increased  three  to  four  hundred  percent  in  the  period 
from  1980  to  1986. 9  In  addition  to  these  financial  ex¬ 
penses  of  insurance  premiums,  more  and  more  physi¬ 
cians  faced  the  personal  stress  of  lawsuits  brought  by 
their  own  patients. 

Beyond  these  fairly  well  documented  concerns 
about  insurance  premiums  and  litigation  stress  are 
certain  other  costs  of  medical  malpractice.  First,  pre¬ 
miums  are  not  the  only  social  costs  attributable  to 
malpractice  litigation.  Physicians  and  their  representa¬ 
tives  emphasize  that  professional  liability  premiums 
are  smaller  than  the  costs  of  defensive  medicine.  The 
American  Medical  Association  (AMA),  for  instance, 
estimates  that  in  1985,  the  total  cost  of  defensive 
medicine  was  $11.7  billion  for  physician  services 
alone.10  Others  are  less  certain  of  the  costs  associated 
with  defensive  medicine,  partly  because  the  concept 


5  Levit  and  Freeland,  “National  Medical  Care  Expenditures,”  Health  Af¬ 
fairs  (Winter  1988):  124.  See  also  Weiler,  Medical  Malpractice  (ALI  Back¬ 
ground  Paper,  1987). 

6  Premiums  are  based  on  claims  history  of  the  geographic  location  and  the 
individual  specialty.  Since  certain  specialties  are  known  to  lead  to  many  more 
claims  than  others,  specialty  designation  has  the  greatest  impact  on  one’s  in¬ 
surance  premium.  For  instance,  St.  Paul’s  rates  specialties  according  to  eight 
classes.  Family  practice,  class  four,  is  indexed  at  1.0.  Physicians  who  do  no 
surgery,  including  allergists,  dermatologists  and  psychiatrists,  are  in  class  1A 
and  indexed  at  .32.  On  the  other  hand,  neurosurgical  physicians  are  in  class 
eight,  and  are  indexed  at  3.48.  This  means  that  in  a  given  state,  if  family  prac¬ 
titioners  are  charged  $10,000  for  malpractice  premiums,  psychiatrists  are 
charged  $3,200  and  neurosurgical  physicians  are  charged  at  least  $35,000.  In 
major  metropolitan  areas,  malpractice  premiums  are  quite  a  bit  higher.  For 
instance,  St.  Pauls  charged  class  four  physicians  $43,900  in  California  in  July 
of  1989.  In  Los  Angeles,  however,  those  physicians  are  charged  $53,600. 
This  compares  with  the  $6,800  St.  Pauls  charges  class  four  physicians  in 
Arkansas. 

7  See  General  Accounting  Office,  Medical  Malpractice:  Insurance  Costs 
(Washington,  D.C.  1986). 

8  See  Florida  Academic  Task  Force,  27. 

9  See  Bovbjerg  and  Sloan,  Medical  Malpractice. 

10  See  AMA,  Trends  in  Health  Care. 


itself  is  elusive.11  Defensive  medicine  is  defined  as 
care  provided  solely  to  decrease  the  potential  for  a 
lawsuit,  in  contrast  to  care  that  helps  diagnose  or 
treat  a  patient’s  ailment.  What  some  term  defensive 
practice,  others  might  see  as  appropriate  care  elicited 
by  the  incentive  effect  of  malpractice  litigation.  How¬ 
ever,  adding  the  direct  costs  of  litigation  to  those  of 
defensive  medicine,  some  researchers  calculated  that 
in  1984  malpractice  litigation  cost  $13.7  billion,12  (just 
prior  to  the  last  big  jump  in  premiums). 

Another  social  cost  is  decreased  access  to  care 
when  malpractice  litigation  drives  some  physicians 
out  of  certain  specialties  and  out  of  particular  geo¬ 
graphic  locations.  This  problem  is  seen  most  sharply 
in  studies  of  obstetrical  services  in  low-income  areas, 
where  obstetricians,  family  practitioners  or  clinics  are 
reducing  this  part  of  their  practice,  they  say,  due  to 
the  economic  interaction  of  Medicaid  cost  contain¬ 
ment  and  rising  malpractice  premiums.13  Indeed,  the 
Institute  of  Medicine’s  recent  report  on  the  delivery 
of  obstetrical  care  focused  on  this  particular  issue,  and 
emphasized  that  some  relief  from  the  burden  of  mal¬ 
practice  litigation  must  be  given  to  individuals  provid¬ 
ing  obstetric  care  for  low-income  women. 14 

The  question  remains,  however,  whether  all  these 
attendant  costs  of  medical  malpractice  really  do  jus¬ 
tify  large-scale  changes  in  the  tort  liability  approach. 
To  understand  the  most  significant  problems  with  the 
liability  system,  it  is  necessary  to  examine  the  appara¬ 
tus  in  some  detail  and  assess  the  strengths  and  weak¬ 
nesses  of  its  component  institutions.  In  the  following 
section,  we  will  analyze  the  roles  played  by  insurers, 
lawyers  and  health  care  providers  in  the  overall  in¬ 
crease  in  medical  malpractice  liability  costs. 


INSTITUTIONAL  ANALYSIS 
Insurers 

Some  have  accused  the  insurance  industry  of  creat¬ 
ing  the  malpractice  crisis  in  order  to  bring  about  in¬ 
creases  in  premiums.  For  instance  the  president  of  the 
Association  of  Trial  Lawyers  of  America  has  stated, 
“the  insurance  industry  itself  has  created  the  situation 
and  now  seeks  to  profit  from  it.”  15  Consumer  advo- 


1 1  See  Tancredi  and  Barondess,  “The  Problem  of  Defensive  Medicine,” 
Science  200  (1978):  879. 

1 2  See  Reynolds,  Rizzo,  and  Gonzalez,  “The  Cost  of  Medical  Professional 
Liability,”  JAMA  257  (1987):  2776. 

13  See  Hughes,  Rosenbaum,  Smith  and  Fader,  “Obstetrical  Care  for  Low- 
Income  Women:  The  Effects  of  Medical  Malpractice  on  Community  Health 
Centers,  in  Institute  of  Medicine,”  Medical  Professional  Liability  in  the  Deliv¬ 
ery  of  Obstetrical  Care,  vol.  2,  59-78. 

14  See  Institute  of  Medicine,  Medical  Professional  Liability  in  the  Delivery  of 
Obstetrical  Care,  vol.  1,  (1989):  1-14. 

15  See  Perlman,  Presidents  Page,  Trial,  January  1986,  5. 


44 


cates  have  made  much  the  same  charge.16  That  senti¬ 
ment  was  reflected  in  the  comment  of  J.B.  Spence, 
one  of  the  country’s  leading  personal  injury  attorneys, 
who  stated:  “The  insurance  industry  in  this  country 
has  a  gun  to  the  head  of  the  doctors  [and  t]he  doctors 
in  turn  have  a  gun  to  the  head  of  the  legislatures.”  17 
This  same  diagnosis  was  made  about  the  crisis 
atmosphere  surrounding  tort  law  generally  in  the 
mid  1980’s,  and  the  “reforms”  this  atmosphere 
provoked.18 

These  accusations  seem  to  have  little  merit,  at  least 
with  regard  to  medical  malpractice  insurance.  To  our 
mind  the  largest  share  of  the  problem  is  the  volatility 
of  the  liability  insurance  line.  Insurance  companies 
must  rely  on  the  predictability  of  the  legal  risk  to  be 
able  to  set  their  premiums,19  but  predictability  is  diffi¬ 
cult  to  achieve  in  malpractice.  To  price  their  policies 
actuaries  must  try  to  estimate  the  frequency  (under  an 
“occurrence”  policy)  or  at  least  the  severity  (under  a 
“claims  made”  policy)  of  suits  that  will  not  finally  be 
resolved  for  a  decade  or  more.  During  this  “long 
tail,”  there  can  be,  and  have  been,  substantial  changes 
in  patient  propensities  to  sue  and  jury  sentiments 
regarding  awards.20  Aggravating  this  problem  is  the 
insurance  cycle — i.e.,  fluctuations  in  premiums  attrib¬ 
utable  to  changes  in  investment  earnings  on  revenues, 
interest  rates,  the  stock  market,  and  the  value  of  the 
dollar.21 

By  contrast,  the  collusion  hypothesis  seems  in¬ 
herently  implausible.22  Collusion  is  rarely  seen  in  an 
industry  that  has  a  comparatively  low  level  of  con¬ 
centration  in  antitrust  terms,  as  has  the  insurance  in¬ 
dustry.  Moreover,  any  cartel  formed  in  the  insurance 
industry  would  be  difficult  to  maintain,  because  cartel 
members  can  too  easily  attract  business  by  improving 


16  See  Horwitz,  “Nader  Charges  Insurers  with  Price  Gouging,”  Washing¬ 
ton  Post,  January  7,  1986,  Dl,  col.  6. 

17  See  J.B.  Spence,  Testimony  Before  Academic  Task  Force  for  Review  of 
the  Insurance  and  Tort  Systems,  Vol.  2  at  136  (Miami,  Fla.,  February  3, 
1987),  cited  in  Nye,  Gifford,  Webb,  Dewar,  “The  Causes  of  the  Medical 
Malpractice  Crisis:  An  Analysis  of  Claims  Data  and  Insurance  Company  Fi¬ 
nances,”  Georgetown  Law  Journal  76  (1988):  1495. 

18  See  Nader,  The  Assault  on  Injured  Victims’  Rights,  Denver  University 
Law  Review  64  (1988):  625. 

19  See  generally,  Abraham,  Distributing  Risk  (1985). 

20  George  Priest  has  explored  the  problems  posed  for  insurance  by  tort 
law  generally.  See  Priest,  “The  Current  Insurance  Crisis  and  Modem  Tort 
Law,”  Yale  Law  Journal  96  (1987):  1521  and  Priest,  “The  Antitrust  Suit  and 
the  Public  Understanding  of  Insurance,”  Tulane  Law  Review  63  (1989):  999. 
Priest's  concerns  regarding  eroding  risk  pools  do  not  appear  to  be  applicable 
to  malpractice  insurers. 

21  See  Abraham,  The  Causes  of  the  Insurance  Crises  in  New  Directions  in 
Liability  Law,  ed.  W.  Olson  (New  York:  Academy  of  Political  Science  1988). 

22  See  Priest,  “The  Current  Insurance  Crisis,”  and  Priest,  “The  Public 
Understanding  of  Insurance,”  and  most  of  the  articles  in  the  Symposium,  Per¬ 
spectives  on  the  Insurance  Crisis,  Yale  Journal  of  Regulation  5  (1988):  367- 
516.  The  case  for  collusion  is  made  in  National  Association  of  Attorneys 
General,  An  Analysis  of  the  Causes  of  the  Current  Crisis  of  Unavailability  and 
Unaffordability  of  Liability  Insurance,  May,  1986.  A  group  of  state  attorneys 
general  did  file  an  antitrust  suit  against  major  casualty  insurers:  see  In  re  In¬ 
surance  Antitrust  Litigation,  723  F.  Supp.  464  (N.D.  Cal.  1989).  The  suit  was 
dismissed  on  McCarran-Ferguson  grounds.  See  also  Ayres  and  Siegelman, 
“The  Economics  of  the  Insurance  Antitrust  Suit:  Towards  an  Exclusionary 
Theory,”  Tulane  Law  Review  63  (1989):  971. 


the  terms  of  coverage  at  the  fixed  price.  In  addition, 
during  the  malpractice  crisis  of  the  1970s,  and  the 
product  and  municipality  crisis  of  the  1980s,  as  big  a 
feature  of  the  problem  was  a  lack  of  availability  of  in¬ 
surance.  It  seems  odd  for  a  cartel  to  refuse  to  sell  its 
products  at  even  unduly  high  prices.  Finally,  and 
most  importantly  for  medical  malpractice,  a  substan¬ 
tial  portion  of  this  coverage  is  offered  by  “bedpan 
mutuals,”  insurance  companies  controlled  by  the  doc¬ 
tors  and  hospitals  themselves.23  There  is  no  reason  to 
suppose  that  these  carriers  would  be  a  part  of  a 
scheme  to  price  gouge  their  own  principals.  For  those 
several  reasons  the  collusion  hypothesis  lacks  theoreti¬ 
cal  economic  support. 

In  addition,  empirical  analysis  of  long-term  insur¬ 
ance  premiums  and  costs  supports  quite  a  different  di- 


23  The  malpractice  insurance  industry  has  changed  a  great  deal  in  the  past 
decade.  Physicians  in  private  practice  traditionally  purchased  insurance  di¬ 
rectly  from  malpractice  insurers.  Those  physicians  who  worked  for  hospitals 
or  Health  Maintenance  Organization  (HMOs)  had  their  malpractice  insurance 
purchased  by  their  employer.  Since  the  late  1970s,  however,  more  and  more 
hospitals  have  chosen  to  self-insure  rather  than  buying  commercial  insurance. 
Indeed  a  survey  in  1980  indicated  that  there  were  already  nearly  1,000  hospi¬ 
tals  self-insured.  See  Needleman  and  Hackbarth,  “The  Malpractice  Insurance 
System  in  Obstetrical  Care:  Recent  Experience  and  Options  for  Change.” 
Paper  prepared  for  the  Institute  of  Medicine.  Washington,  D.C.  (1988).  This 
self-insurance  phenomenon  undoubtedly  accelerated  during  the  malpractice 
crisis  of  the  1980s  as  all  premiums  increased  dramatically. 

Self-insurance  is  not  the  only  change  that  has  occurred  in  malpractice 
underwriting.  As  noted,  before  the  insurance  crisis  of  the  mid-1970s,  mal¬ 
practice  insurance  for  individual  physicians  was  typically  provided  by 
commercial  insurers.  After  this  malpractice  crisis,  there  was  a  great  deal  of 
consolidation  in  the  market  as  many  insurers  withdrew.  Medical  societies 
themselves  created  their  own  insurance  companies.  The  largest  of  these,  the 
Medical  Liability  Mutual  Insurance  Company  of  New  York,  now  possesses 
nearly  40  percent  of  the  New  York  state  market  and  nearly  six  percent  of  the 
overall  national  market.  See  Stern,  “Medical  Malpractice,  Fidelity  Insur¬ 
ance.”  Bests  Review  89  (1988):  34.  Hospital  associations  also  developed  insur¬ 
ance  companies.  The  largest  of  these,  the  Pennsylvania  Hospital  Insurance 
Company,  possesses  33  percent  of  the  Pennsylvania  hospital  malpractice 
market.  These  so-called  bedpan  mutuals  are,  as  one  would  expect,  responsive 
to  providers’  input.  This  does  not  mean  that  they  will  be  immune  from 
market  forces,  or  that  they  will  behave  differently  than  other  insurers  when 
faced  with  rising  claims  rates  and  increased  severity  of  claims.  One  would 
expect,  however,  that  they  would  be  unwilling  to  act  in  collusion  with  other 
insurers  in  any  effort  to  raise  premiums  artificially  high. 

In  certain  states,  state  legislatures  had  to  step  in  to  provide  alternatives 
when  the  majority  of  medical  malpractice  insurers  withdrew  from  the 
market.  Most  states  created  joint  underwriting  associations  (JUAs),  which  are 
non-profit  pooling  arrangements  funded  initially  by  all  entities  providing  in¬ 
surance  in  a  particular  state.  After  the  initial  capital  investment,  the  JUAs  are 
intended  to  be  self-supporting  through  physician  premiums.  At  present,  13 
states  have  functioning  JUAs,  with  market  shares  ranging  from  three  percent 
in  Kansas  to  83  percent  in  Rhode  Island  in  1986.  See  Kenney,  Financial  Con¬ 
dition  of  Medical  Malpractice  JUAs.  (Shalmberg,  Ill.:  Alliance  of  American  In¬ 
surers)  (1987).  Since  insurance  companies  can  face  annual  assessments  if  JUA 
deficits  develop,  the  insurance  industry  keeps  a  close  eye  on  the  vitality  of 
JUA  programs. 

The  rest  of  medical  malpractice  insurance  is  offered  by  commercial  in¬ 
surers.  Some  insurers,  such  as  the  St.  Paul’s  group,  offers  insurance  in  many 
states. 

Most  malpractice  policies  are  structured  in  a  similar  fashion.  Medical  mal¬ 
practice  insurance  policies  typically  involve  both  monetary  limits  on  individ¬ 
ual  claims  or  occurrences,  and  aggregate  amounts  that  will  be  paid  over  a 
policy  year.  In  some  states,  the  limits  are  as  low  as  $100,000  per  occurrence 
and  $300,000  in  aggregate.  More  typical,  is  a  minimum  amount  of  $400,000 
per  occurrence  and  $1  million  in  aggregate,  while  many  states  have  moved  to 
policies  involving  $1  million  per  occurrence  and  $3  million  in  aggregate. 
There  is  very  little  experience  rating  in  the  medical  malpractice  insurance  in¬ 
dustry.  Hospitals  usually  have  much  higher  annual  limits,  ranging  between 
five  and  thirty  million  dollars.  See  Institute  of  Medicine,  supra  note  15, 
Volume  1,  Chapter  6,  Obstetrical  Malpractice  Insurance. 


45 


agnosis.24  In  both  New  York  and  Florida,  careful 
studies  have  documented  the  relationship  between 
premiums  and  costs  in  the  medical  malpractice  area. 
For  example,  the  Florida  Academic  Task  Force  found 
that  the  primary  cause  in  that  state  of  increased  mal¬ 
practice  premiums  over  the  years  1980  to  1988  was 
the  substantial  increase  in  loss  payments  to  claimants. 
The  Task  Force  also  demonstrated  that  insurance 
company  profits  are  roughly  equivalent  to  the  profits 
made  by  other  corporations  in  the  United  States.25 
There  appears  to  be  little  support,  then  for  the  con¬ 
tention  that  the  malpractice  crisis  was  the  result  of  in¬ 
surance  monopoly  and  excess  profits. 


Litigation  System 

The  litigation  system  creates  pressure  for  growth  in 
malpractice  premiums  when  there  is  either  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  claims  being  brought  against  insured 
individuals  or  institutions,  or  when  the  average  pay¬ 
ment  on  (i.e.,  the  severity  of)  individual  claims  rises. 
Throughout  the  1970s  and  much  of  the  1980s,  both 
the  frequency  and  severity  of  claims  increased 
dramatically.26 

Overall,  between  1975  and  1984,  Danzon  estimates 
that  there  was  an  average  increase  of  10  percent  per 
year  in  claims  brought  against  physicians,  and  that 
during  the  period  from  1982  to  1986,  the  claim  fre¬ 
quency  per  100  physicians  rose  from  13.5  to  17.2  per 
year.27  It  appears  that  claims  rates  are  now  back 


24  The  New  York  figures  are  contained  in  the  Report  of  New  York  State 
Insurance  Department  on  Medical  Malpractice,  A  Balanced  Prescription  for 
Change  (New  York:  1988). 

25  See  Nye  et  al.,  “The  Causes  of  the  Medical  Malpractice  Crisis,”  1499. 
At  the  same  time,  the  claims  made  by  insurance  companies  that  the  malprac¬ 
tice  line  of  insurance  is  unprofitable  have  been  refuted  by  reports  from  the 
General  Accounting  Office  (GAO).  One  study  by  the  GAO  concluded  that 
profitability  estimates  for  the  medical  malpractice  line  of  insurance  depends 
primarily  on  the  adequacy  of  reserves  for  future  payments  of  claims  and  the 
accounting  principle  used  to  estimate  the  value  of  the  reserves.  Using  its  own 
recommended  accounting  principles,  the  GAO  determined  that  for  the  years 
1975  to  1985  the  malpractice  line  was  quite  profitable  (estimated  profitability 
being  $2  billion):  See  General  Accounting  Office,  Insurance — Profitability  of 
the  Medical  Malpractice  and  General  Liability  Lines  (Washington,  D.C.:  July, 
1987).  Another  GAO  study  showed  that  of  the  property/casualty  insurance 
lines  that  became  insolvent  from  1969  to  1978,  none  had  medical  malpractice 
as  a  primary  line:  see  General  Accounting  Office,  Insurer  Failures — Property/ 
Casualty  Insurer  Insolvencies  and  State  Guaranty  Funds  (Washington,  D.C.: 
July,  1987). 

26  The  following  empirical  information  is  drawn  from  the  same  sources  as 
were  cited  in  footnote  2.  We  should  note  that  claims  data  is  notoriously  unre¬ 
liable.  As  Jacobson  remarks  “In  evaluating  these  data,  some  important 
limitations  must  be  considered.  Aside  from  major  gaps  in  available  data,  the 
reported  data  cannot  be  compared  easily.  Each  data-reporting  system  used  a 
different  standard  for  defining  the  principal  allegations  of  negligence,  and 
each  system  uses  different  assumptions  and  numerical  bases  for  data  report¬ 
ing.  Some  report  data  from  all  claims  and  expenses  (ie,  defense  costs),  includ¬ 
ing  settlements  and  those  in  which  no  indemnity  was  paid.  Others  report 
averages  only  on  a  claims-paid  basis  or  by  looking  at  nonzero  jury  awards 
alone.  Because  many  of  the  claims  filed  result  in  no  indemnity  payments, 
how  those  are  incorporated  into  the  figures  makes  a  major  difference  in  the 
apparent  scope  of  the  problem.  One  result  of  these  different  approaches  is 
that  estimates  of  average  verdicts  vary  widely  and  statements  about  averages 
need  to  be  scrutinized.”  Jacobson,  “Medical  Malpractice  and  the  Tort 
System,”  JAMA  262  (1989):  3322. 

27  Danzon,  “Medical  Malpractice”  in  Liability,  103. 


down  to  13/100  physicians  per  year.28  As  one  might 
expect,  claims  vary  a  great  deal  by  specialty.29  Over¬ 
all,  however,  it  appears  that  somewhat  more  than  one 
in  twenty  physicians  are  sued  successfully  each 
year.30 

The  mean  amount  paid  for  each  claim  is  an  even 
more  important  determinant  of  the  legal  cost  pres¬ 
sures  placed  on  insurers.  There  is  little  doubt  that  the 
size  of  malpractice  claims  rose  a  great  deal  during  the 
1970s  and  1980s.  Part  of  the  increase  in  severity  ap¬ 
pears  due  to  large  jumps  in  jury  verdicts.  For  exam¬ 
ple,  the  average  award  in  jury  verdicts  jumped  from 
$200,000  in  1974  to  almost  $650,000  in  1984  for  mal¬ 
practice  cases  in  the  California  Superior  Courts.31 
(To  put  this  in  some  perspective,  we  should  note  that 
health  care  costs  increased  on  the  order  of  60-70% 
over  the  same  period.)  These  high  jury  verdicts 
induce,  in  turn,  higher  settlement  amounts.  The  aver¬ 
age  malpractice  settlement  rose  from  under  $12,000  in 
1970  to  $26,000  in  1975,  to  $45,000  by  1980,  reached 
$80,000  by  1984  and  topped  $100,000  by  1986.32  As 
one  might  expect  there  is  a  great  deal  of  variation 
from  state  to  state  in  claims  severity.33  For  example, 
the  Florida  Academic  Task  Force  has  emphasized  the 


28  Physicians  and  Surgeons  Update,  1. 

29  The  AMA  estimates  that  before  1981,  there  were  3.2  claims  per  100 
physicians  per  year,  and  that  by  1985,  the  incidence  had  tripled  to  10.1.  For 
obstetrician/gynecologists,  the  average  annual  incidence  rose  from  7.1  per 
100  physicians  in  1981,  to  26.6  by  1985.  For  all  surgeons,  the  increase  was  4.1 
in  1981  to  16.5.  See  Professional  Liability  Clearinghouse,  American  Medical 
Association  Center  for  Health  Policy  Research,  Professional  Liability  Update 
(Dec.  1986),  cited  in  “Note,  The  Applicability  of  Experience  Rating  to  Medi¬ 
cal  Malpractice  Insurance,”  Case  Western  Reserve  Law  Review  38  (1987):  255. 

30  The  best  estimates  are  that  nearly  50  percent  of  all  claims  result  in  some 
sort  of  compensation  for  the  plaintiff. 

31  See  American  Medical  Association,  Professional  Liability  in  the  80s,  Re¬ 
ports  1,  2  and  3.  (Chicago:  AMA,  October  1984,  November  1984,  March 
1985.)  While  increases  in  California  may  have  been  particularly  sharp,  they 
are  not  unrepresentative.  The  Rand  Institute  for  Civil  Justice  has  developed 
information  on  jury  verdicts  in  Chicago  and  San  Francisco  for  the  past 
twenty  years.  Their  data  indicates  that  awards  for  malpractice  plaintiffs  out¬ 
stripped  awards  for  other  high  profile  tort  actions,  such  as  product  liability. 
See  Shanley  and  Peterson,  Comparative  Justice:  Civil  Jury  Verdicts  in  San 
Francisco  and  Cook  Counties,  1959-1980  (Santa  Monica,  Calif.:  Rand  Corpo¬ 
ration,  1983),  R-3006-ICJ.  Other  Rand  data  suggests  that  the  average  jury 
verdict  in  a  malpractice  case  in  these  two  cities  increased  from  $50,000- 
$100,000  in  the  early  1960s  to  $1.2  million  in  the  early  1980s.  See  Peterson, 
Civil  Juries  in  the  1980s  (Santa  Monica,  Calif.:  Rand  Institute  for  Civil  Justice, 
1987).  In  the  Miami  area,  the  Florida  Academic  Task  Force  reports  that  jury 
verdicts  on  behalf  of  plaintiffs  averaged  nearly  $900,000  from  1985  through 
1987.  See  Florida  Academic  Task  Force,  147-50. 

32  See  Weiler,  Legal  Policy  for  Medical  Injuries:  The  Issues,  the  Options  and 
the  Evidence  (January  1988).  Danzon  notes  that  severity  increased  at  double 
the  rate  of  the  Consumer  Price  Index  from  1975  to  1984.  See  Danzon,  “Med¬ 
ical  Malpractice”  in  Liability,  105.  Bovbjerg  and  Sloan  have  estimated  that 
the  paid  claim  severity  rose  from  approximately  $45,000  per  claim  in  1980  to 
over  $100,000  per  claim  in  1986.  See  Bovbjerg  and  Sloan,  Medical  Malprac¬ 
tice,  8. 

33  In  Arkansas,  the  average  indemnity  per  paid  claim  was  $31,000  in  1980 
and  $51,000  in  1984.  See  General  Accounting  Office,  Six  State  Studies  (1986). 
In  Florida,  on  the  other  hand,  the  average  indemnity  was  $80,000  in  1980  and 
over  $140,000  in  1984.  Unlike  the  frequency  of  claims,  it  appears  that  severity 
of  claims  has  continued  to  increase.  St.  Pauls,  for  instance,  estimates  that  the 
cost  per  claim  increased  30  percent  from  1982  to  1985.  These  increases  have 
continued,  so  that  the  increase  from  1982  to  1988  is  nearly  80  percent.  See  St. 
Paul’s  Physician  Update. 


46 


importance  of  large  awards  in  driving  up  the  overall 
average  severity  in  Florida.34 

These  huge  claims  have  a  much  broader  effect  than 
simply  dragging  up  the  average  cost  per  claim.35  As 
noted  earlier,  they  induce  a  great  deal  of  variation  in 
insurance  costs,  making  it  difficult  for  actuaries  to  es¬ 
timate  total  costs  in  an  insurance  market  that  is  as  seg¬ 
mented  and  thin  as  is  malpractice.36 

The  data  regarding  rising  numbers  of  claims  and  se¬ 
verity  of  claims,  combined  with  the  effects  of  huge 
jury  verdicts  or  settlements  on  risk  pooling,  provide 
strong  evidence  that  the  longer  term  increase  in  insur¬ 
ance  premiums  charged  individual  physicians  and  hos¬ 
pitals  are  a  result  of  real  changes  in  tort  costs.  The 
question  remains,  why  have  there  been  these  increases 
in  number  of  claims?  Are  physicians  providing  poorer 
quality  care  or  are  patients  suing  more  frequently  for 
other  reasons?  Research  into  iatrogenic  injury  and 
malpractice  litigation  can  provide  some  answers  to 
these  questions. 


Health  Care  System 

Some  have  conjectured  that  the  increase  in  claims 
and  severity  of  claims  is  simply  a  matter  of  potential 
plaintiffs  mining  a  mother  lode  of  potential  claims. 
Their  assumption  is  that  many  potentially  “litigable” 
and  “compensable”  events  occur  regularly  in  hospi¬ 
tals,  and,  in  recent  years  patients  are  bringing  a  larger 
percentage  of  these  cases  into  the  tort  process.  This 
hypothesis  is  supported  by  the  only  published 
empirical  study  of  iatrogenic  injury  and  litigation, 
conducted  in  California  in  1974. 3  7  The  results  were 


34  In  1975  in  Florida,  the  largest  paid  claim  was  5500,000.  In  1979,  the 
largest  paid  claim  was  $600,000  but  in  1981,  there  was  a  paid  claim  of  SI. 6 
million.  In  1984,  the  largest  paid  claim  was  over  $5  million.  In  1981,  there 
were  a  total  of  16  claims  for  more  that  $500,000  in  Florida,  while  in  1983 
there  were  57  and  in  1984  there  were  105.  Claims  worth  more  than  $1  mil¬ 
lion  represented  4.9  percent  of  the  total  amount  of  paid  claims  in  1981,  but  in 
1986  these  claims  accounted  for  29.1  percent  of  the  total  compensation  paid. 
See  Nye  et  al.,  “The  Causes  of  the  Medical  Malpractice  Crisis,’’  1552.  These 
are  not  the  highest  claims  in  the  country.  Nor  has  the  huge  verdict  phenome¬ 
non  abated.  In  1988,  the  highest  personal  injury  jury  vercict  in  the  country 
was  rendered  against  a  hospital  in  Houston  for  $52  million.  See  American  Bar 
Association  Journal,  July  1989. 

35  A  few  large  awards  lead  to  great  discrepancies  between  the  median 
amount  paid  per  claim,  the  middle  number  obtained  when  the  claims  are  ar¬ 
ranged  in  ordinal  fashion,  and  the  mean  amount  paid  per  claim,  the  amount 
calculated  by  dividing  the  total  indemnity  by  the  number  of  claims.  For  in¬ 
stance,  in  1984  the  General  Accounting  Office  noted  that  the  median  claim 
payments  were  $18,000  while  the  mean  claim  payments  were  580,000.  See 
General  Accounting  Office,  Medical  Malpractice:  Characteristics  of  Claims 
Closed  in  1984,  2. 

36  See  Priest,  “The  Current  Insurance  Crisis,"  1545. 

37  In  1974,  the  California  Medical  Association  and  the  California  Hospital 
Association  commissioned  a  study  by  Don  Harper  Mills  of  the  incidence  of 
potentially  compensable  events  in  hospitals.  California  Medical  Association, 
Medical  Insurance  Feasibility  Study  (Sutter  Publishing,  1976).  Tins  study  fo¬ 
cused  on  23  hospitals  which  had  elected  to  participate.  The  researchers  ana¬ 
lyzed  a  sample  of  20,864  records  of  inpatients  who  had  been  discharged  in 
1974.  They  defined  a  potentially  compensable  event  as  a  disability  that  had 
been  caused  by  health  care  management.  The  research  team  also  evaluated 


disturbing.  The  overall  rate  of  potentially  compensa¬ 
ble  events  was  4.65  percent;  38  the  rate  of  PCE’s  asso¬ 
ciated  with  negligence  was  .79%. 39  Using  this  data, 
and  combining  it  with  information  from  the  National 
Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  for  1976 
through  1978,  Patricia  Danzon  estimated  that  in  the 
mid  1970s,  less  than  one  out  of  10  potentially  compen¬ 
sable  events  associated  with  negligence  gave  rise  to 
litigation.40 

The  California  study  suggests  that  recent  increases 
in  rates  of  medical  malpractice  litigation  are  caused 
by  the  fact  that  more  and  more  litigants  are  now  actu¬ 
ally  bringing  what  always  were  potentially  valid 
claims.41  Again,  though,  one  must  put  these  statistics 
about  medical  negligence  in  context.  Modern  health 
care  is  an  inherently  risky  enterprise,  employing  a  va¬ 
riety  of  intrusive  procedures,  equipment  and  drugs  to 
combat  diseases  that  would  have  been  left  to  run  their 
(usually  fatal)  course  a  generation  ago.  But  however 
sophisticated  its  science  and  technology,  medicine  still 
must  rely  on  the  care  and  attention  of  doctors,  nurses 
and  technicians  for  the  use  and  safety  of  these  proce¬ 
dures.  Unfortunately,  like  all  human  beings,  medical 
personnel  are  prone  to  occasional  oversights  and  mis¬ 
takes.  But  when  a  usually  conscientious  surgeon 
makes  a  momentary  inadvertent  slip-up — which  is 
negligence  in  the  eyes  of  the  law — this  exposes  the 
patient  to  severe  and  irretrievable  harm  for  which  a 
tort  suit  can  be  brought.42  Thus,  it  is  revealing  that 


whether  or  not  the  potentially  compensable  event  was  caused  by  negligence, 
and  graded  each  potentially  compensable  event  according  to  severity. 

38  Among  these  PCEs,  35.7  percent  led  to  minor  disability  of  30  days  or 
less  and  did  not  require  surgery.  Another  25.7  percent  of  the  PCEs  had 
minor  disability  that  did  not  exceed  30  days  but  did  require  surgery.  Major 
disability,  lasting  for  more  than  30  days  but  less  than  two  years,  occurred  in 
18.6  percent  of  patients.  Another  6.5  percent  of  PCEs  resulted  in  minor  but 
permanent  partial  disabilities.  2.2  percent  of  the  PCEs  gave  rise  to  major  per¬ 
manent  partial  disability  and  another  1.6  percent  gave  rise  to  grave  perma¬ 
nent  disability.  Death  occurred  in  9.7  percent  of  PCEs. 

39  Forty-two  percent  of  the  PCEs  that  proved  fatal  were  associated  with 
negligence,  whereas  only  11.9  percent  of  the  PCEs  leading  to  temporary  dis¬ 
abilities  were  caused  by  negligence.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  PCEs  oc¬ 
curred  in  the  operating  room  (71.8  percent). 

40  Her  estimates  suggest  that  if  all  cases  that  could  potentially  give  rise  to 
successful  tort  litigation  did  so,  there  would  be  10  times  the  number  of  claims 
and  20  times  the  number  of  paid  claims.  See  Danzon,  Medical  Malpractice 
(Cambridge,  Mass.:  Harvard  University  Press,  1985).  Danzon  has  since  esti¬ 
mated  that  at  present  greater  than  one  in  10,  perhaps  as  many  as  one  in  six  or 
seven  of  potentially  compensable  events  associated  with  negligence  now  lead 
to  a  claim,  largely  as  a  result  of  the  increase  in  the  number  of  claims  over  the 
period  from  1975  to  1986.  See  Danzon,  “The  Frequency  and  Severity  of 
Medical  Malpractice  Claims:  New  Evidence,”  Law  and  Contemporary  Prob¬ 
lems,  49  (1986):  57-84. 

41  Of  course,  the  available  empirical  information  concerning  the  “mining” 
hypothesis  is  limited.  First  of  all,  the  California  study  was  a  non-random 
sample,  suggesting  there  may  be  considerable  bias  in  its  results.  Moreover, 
little  attention  was  paid  during  the  conduct  of  the  research  to  methodological 
issues  such  as  reliability  and  validity  of  judgments  concerning  potentially 
compensable  events  or  negligence.  In  addition,  Danzon’s  work  was  based  on 
a  somewhat  inadequate  database,  the  National  Association  of  Insurance  Com¬ 
missioners  closed-claims  data  from  1975  through  1978.  The  Harvard  Medical 
Practice  Study  Group,  of  which  we  are  members,  has  just  completed  a  study 
in  New  York,  Patients,  Doctors,  and  Laywers  (1990),  which  addressed  these 
concerns:  we  found  that  the  present  gap  between  negligent  injuries  and 
actual  tort  claims  is  even  starker  than  the  California  estimates. 

42  See  generally  Grady,  “Why  Are  People  Negligent?  Technology, 
Nondurable  Precautions  and  the  Medical  Malpractice  Explosion,”  Northwest¬ 
ern  University  Law  Review  82  (1988):  293. 


47 


since  the  mid  1970’s  there  has  been  the  same  percent¬ 
age  increase  in  malpractice  claims  and  costs  in 
Canada  and  Great  Britain  (though  from  a  much  lower 
base  level  than  the  United  States),  despite  their  very 
different  organization  and  financing  of  both  legal  and 
health  care.43 

But  whatever  the  explanation,  the  fact  is  there  is  no 
evidence  we  have  been  experiencing  too  many  mal¬ 
practice  claims;  if  anything  there  appear  to  be  too 
few.  It  would  seem  unfair,  then,  to  encumber  even 
further  access  to  the  tort  system  by  those  injured  indi¬ 
viduals  with  valid  claims.  On  the  other  hand,  large 
awards  tend  to  have  an  unsettling  effect  on  the  insur¬ 
ance  system.  The  erratic  nature  of  awards,  especially 
their  pain  and  suffering  component,  produces  unduly 
volatile  premium  changes  during  “crisis”  periods  and 
dislocation  in  the  lives  of  individual  practitioners, 
whether  sued  successfully  or  not. 


RESPONSE— PUBLIC  POLICY 

In  response  to  the  pressure  of  rising  malpractice  liti¬ 
gation  and  premiums,  all  the  state  legislatures  have 
sought  to  reform  at  least  some  of  their  law  concern¬ 
ing  malpractice  liability.  During  the  1970’s  and  1980s, 
this  effort  took  the  form  of  “conventional”  tort 
reform,  under  which  the  legislatures  tinkered  with  dif¬ 
ferent  tort  doctrines  and  procedures  for  malpractice 
claims.  In  the  last  few  years,  though,  one  finds  grow¬ 
ing  interest  in  moving  beyond  tort  law  altogether, 
whether  into  administrative  fault  or  no-fault  compen¬ 
sation  systems.  We  will  first  review  conventional  tort 
reform  and  then  sketch  some  of  the  suggested  alterna¬ 
tives  to  traditional  tort  litigation. 


Conventional  Tort  Reform 

A  variety  of  types  of  conventional  tort  reform  have 
been  instituted  by  state  governments  in  the  last  two 
decades,  most  fashioned  in  response  to  the  first  mal¬ 
practice  crisis  of  the  mid  1970s.  These  statutory 
changes,  designed  to  reduce  the  frequency  and  sever¬ 
ity  of  malpractice  claims  and  premiums,  are  aimed  at 
one  of  three  targets:  initial  access  of  patients  to  the 
courts,  chances  of  success  in  establishing  liability,  and 
the  potential  amount  of  damages  awarded.  Since  most 
of  these  reforms  were  instituted  in  at  least  some  states 
more  than  a  decade  ago,  sufficient  time  has  elapsed  to 


43  See  Dewees,  Coyte  and  Trebilcock,  Canadian  Medical  Malpractice  Li¬ 
ability:  An  Empirical  Analysis  of  Recent  Trends  (1989);  Ham,  Dingwall,  Fenn 
and  Harris,  Medical  Negligence:  Compensation  and  Accountability,  (1988):  11- 
12  (on  the  United  Kingdom). 


allow  empirical  evaluation  of  the  impact  of  such 
measures. 

We  start  with  changes  in  liability  rules,  since  this  is 
perhaps  the  most  distinctive  feature  of  malpractice 
law.  Unlike  product  liability  law,  courts  have  stuck 
closely  to  the  fault  principle,  as  reflected  in  the  rule 
that  only  deviation  from  customary  medical  practice 
will  suffice  for  liability.  Few  courts  have  strayed  from 
this  central  assumption;  44  nor  have  any  legislatures 
relaxed  it.  However,  a  number  of  statutory  enact¬ 
ments  in  the  1970s  did  modify  the  detailed  rules  em¬ 
bodying  the  fault  principle,  with  a  view  to  rolling 
back  some  of  the  common-law  doctrines  developed 
by  judges  in  previous  decades  to  make  it  easier  for  pa¬ 
tients  to  establish  physician  fault.  For  instance,  the 
judges  had  largely  overturned  the  old  locality  doc¬ 
trine  under  which  practitioners  were  held  only  to  the 
standard  of  practice  in  their  same  locale.  Since  1970, 
approximately  one  dozen  state  legislatures  have 
restated  the  standard  of  care  by  reference  to  local 
practice.45 

Another  such  effort  sought  to  limit  the  operation  of 
the  doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur.  This  judicial  doctrine 
made  it  somewhat  easier  for  patients  to  get  a  malprac¬ 
tice  case  to  a  jury  in  situations  where  an  apparent 
mishap  had  led  to  a  poor  outcome.  Yet  another  legis¬ 
lative  attempt  to  overcome  judge-made  law  con¬ 
cerned  informed  consent.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s, 
some  courts  had  defined  the  standard  of  informed 
consent  in  terms  of  what  a  reasonable  patient  needed 
to  know,  rather  than  what  a  reasonable  physician  felt 
it  necessary  to  disclose.  A  number  of  state  legislatures 
in  turn  explicitly  enacted  the  reasonable  practitioner 
standard.46 

A  more  thoroughgoing  method  for  changing  liabil¬ 
ity  standards  would  be  to  specify  that  practice  guide¬ 
lines  developed  by  physicians  should  act  as  definitions 
of  the  standard  of  care  for  courts.  Using  outcome 
studies  47  and  consensus  panel  determinations  of  prac¬ 
tice  standards,48  health  services  researchers  have 
begun  to  develop  clinical  parameters  to  determine  ap¬ 
propriate  care.49  For  instance,  the  American  College 
of  Physicians  and  Blue  Cross/Blue  Shield  have  devel¬ 
oped  a  series  of  guidelines  for  common  diagnostic 

44  The  most  notable  being  Helling  v.  Carey,  519  P.2d  981  (Wash.  1974). 

45  See  Robinson,  “The  Medical  Malpractice  Crisis  of  the  1970s:  A  Retro¬ 
spective,”  Law  and  Contemporary  Problems  49  (Spring,  1986):  6. 

46  See  Meisel  and  Kabnick,  “Informed  Consent  to  Medical  Treatment:  An 
Analysis  of  Recent  Legislation,”  University  of  Pittsburgh  Law  Review  41 
(1980):  407. 

47  See  Wennberg,  Mulley,  Hanley  et  al.,  “An  Assessment  of  Prostatectomy 
for  a  Benign  Urinary  Tract  Obstruction:  Geographic  Variations  in  the  Eval¬ 
uation  of  Medical  Outcomes, "JAMA  259  (1988):  3027. 

48  See  Kahn,  Kosecoff,  Chassin,  et  al.,  “The  Use  and  Misuse  of  Upper 
Gastrointestinal  Endoscopy,”  Annals  of  Internal  Medicine  109  (1988):  664-70. 

49  See  Brook,  “Practice  Guidelines  and  Practicing  Medicine:  Are  They 
Compatible?”  JAMA  262  (1989):  3027. 


48 


tests.50  While  some  may  question  the  validity  of  such 
parameters 51  it  seems  likely  that  development  of 
medical  practice  algorithms  will  accelerate.  Indeed, 
recent  legislation  creates  new  opportunities  for  re¬ 
search  on  and  development  of,  these  methods,52  and 
this  Commission  has  recommended  as  part  of  a  na¬ 
tional  system  of  quality  assurance  that  national  prac¬ 
tice  guidelines  and  standards  of  care  be  developed  in 
a  newly  created  agency  for  Health  Care  Policy  and 
Research. 

Similar  practice  guidelines  could  also  be  used  to 
determine  the  standard  of  care  for  malpractice  pro¬ 
ceedings.  However,  their  development  is  a  very  com¬ 
plicated  and  lengthy  process.  Therefore,  while  we 
now  see  the  first  uses  of  such  guidelines  in  an  effort 
to  improve  care  and  decrease  litigation,53  it  is  doubt¬ 
ful  they  will  play  a  major  role  in  the  near  future. 

Another  set  of  tort  reforms  placed  a  variety  of  re¬ 
strictions  on  what  was  perceived  as  too  easy  access  to 
common  law  courts.54  One  way  to  do  this  was  to 
shrink  the  statutory  limitation  period.  Using  a  judge 
fashioned  discovery  doctrine,  many  state  courts  inter¬ 
preted  their  statute  of  limitations  as  not  being  tolled 
until  a  victim  had,  or  should  have,  discovered  that  his 
injury  was  a  result  of  doctor  negligence.  This  innova¬ 
tion  tended  to  give  plaintiffs  a  much  broader  time 
span  in  which  to  file  their  suit.  In  response,  a  number 
of  states  repealed  the  discovery  rule  or  required  that 
claims  be  brought  within  a  so-called  statute  of  repose 
that  set  an  outer  bound  to  the  discovery  principle.55 
The  rationale  is  that  doctors  and  their  insurers  should 
enjoy  some  protection  against  litigation  launched  long 
after  the  original  treatment,  when  there  is  consider¬ 
able  risk  that  the  events  will  be  appraised  in  light  of 
quite  different  legal  and  medical  norms  than  could 
fairly  have  been  anticipated  at  the  time. 

Another  such  access  rule  was  the  limitation  of  at¬ 
torney’s  fees.  Plaintiff  attorneys  take  malpractice  cases 
on  the  basis  of  a  contingent  fee,  meaning  that  if  and 
only  if  the  plaintiff  wins,  the  lawyer  takes  his  com¬ 
pensation  as  a  percentage  of  the  award.  In  response  to 
physicians’  concerns  about  the  incentives  this  arrange¬ 
ment  created  for  malpractice  suits,  many  jurisdictions 
restricted  the  size  of  attorneys’  fees,  typically  by  im¬ 


50  See  Sox,  “Guidelines  for  Medical  Practice:  Necessary  But  Not  Suffi¬ 
cient,”  Journal  of  General  Internal  Medicine  6  (1989):  551. 

51  See  Alper,  “ACP  Guidelines  for  Common  Diagnostic  Tests  in  the  Prac¬ 
ticing  Internist,"  Journal  of  General  Internal  Medicine  6  (1989):  548. 

52  See  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989,  P.L.  101-239,  sec. 
6103. 

53  Berwick,  “Continuous  Improvement  as  an  Ideal  in  Health  Care.  .\ew’ 

England  Journal  of  Medicine  320  (1989):  53. 

54  See  Bovbjerg,  “Legislation  on  Medical  Malpractice:  Further  Develop¬ 
ments  and  a  Preliminary  Report  Card,”  University  of  California  at  Davis  Law 
Review  22  (1989):  499. 

88  See  McGovern,  ‘The  Variety,  Policy  and  Constitutionality  of  Product 
Liability  Statutes  of  Repose,"  American  University  Law  Review  30  (1981):  579. 


posing  a  flat  percentage  or  by  constructing  a  sliding 
scale  based  on  the  size  of  the  award.  For  a  time,  Flor¬ 
ida  even  experimented  with  the  Anglo-Canadian  rule 
of  awarding  fees  to  the  prevailing  party,  but  this  law 
was  replaced  by  a  sliding  scale  based  on  timing  of  set¬ 
tlement  and  size  of  award.56 

Yet  another  way  to  limit  access  was  to  institute 
screening  panels.  Screening  panels  are  composed  of 
doctors  and  lawyers  who  review  a  case  and  evaluate 
its  merits  before  a  claim  is  filed.  These  screening 
panels  are  intended  to  decrease  access  to  the  legal 
system  by  influencing  parties’  evaluations  of  their 
probability  of  success  in  courts.  While  many  states 
adopted  screening  panels  in  the  mid-1970s,  there  has 
been  less  enthusiasm  for  them  in  the  1980s,  largely  be¬ 
cause  the  panels  have  had  little  impact  except  to  pro¬ 
long  the  length  of  time  and  costs  before  resolution  of 
a  suit.57 

Finally,  state  legislatures  have  experimented  with 
limits  on  damages,  again  in  an  effort  to  moderate  the 
number  and  severity  of  claims.  One  such  measure  is 
periodic  rather  than  lump  sum  payment  of  large 
damage  awards:  this  allows  the  court  to  adjust  the 
award  to  subsequent  changes  in  health  status  of  the 
victim.  Another  way  to  restrain  damage  awards  is  to 
reverse  the  collateral  source  rule,  under  which  the 
courts  traditionally  held  that  damages  payable  by  cul¬ 
pable  defendants  should  not  be  reduced  even  if  the 
patient’s  loss  has  been  compensated  by  other  sources, 
such  as  health  or  disability  insurance.58  Numerous 
states  have  responded  to  the  arguments  that  this  is  a 
form  of  “double  dipping,”  either  by  allowing  defend¬ 
ants  to  introduce  evidence  concerning  sources  of 
compensation  such  as  health  and  disability  insurance, 
or  even  mandating  that  the  courts  deduct  any  such 
collateral  insurance  payments  from  tort  awards.  Of 
course,  offsetting  such  collateral  sources  can  reduce 
the  deterrent  threat  of  litigation,  given  that  physicians 
would  have  a  reduced  responsibility  for  the  social 
costs  of  medical  injuries  and  personal  injury  lawyers 
whose  fees  are  a  percentage  of  the  total  damage 
award  would  have  less  inclination  to  pursue  claims  on 
behalf  of  a  well  insured  individual,  even  when  the 
care  the  individual  received  may  have  been  grossly 
substandard. 


86  See  Hawkes,  “The  Second  Reformation:  Florida’s  Medical  Malpractice 
Law,”  Florida  State  Law  Review  13  (1985):  747. 

87  See  Danzon  and  Lillard,  “Settlement  out  of  Court:  The  Disposition  of 
Medical  Malpractice  Claims,”  Journal  of  Legal  Studies  12  (1983):  373-4; 
Shmanske  and  Stevens,  “The  Performance  of  Medical  Malpractice  Review 
Panels,”  Journal  of  Health  Politics,  Policy  and  Law  11  (1986):  525. 

88  See  generally  Moceri  and  Messini,  “The  Collateral  Source  Rule  in  Per¬ 
sonal  Injury  Litigation,”  Gonzaga  Law  Review  7  (1972):  310.  Although  it  has 
attracted  little  attention  from  state  legislatures,  the  concept  of  scheduling 
damages  gained  some  scholarly  support  as  a  method  for  rationalizing  the 
damage  determination  process:  see  Danzon,  “Tort  Reform  and  the  Role  of 
Government  in  Insurance  Markets,”  Journal  of  Legal  Studies  13  (1984): 
527-30. 


49 


The  most  straightforward  form  of  damages  re¬ 
striction  is  the  damage  cap.  As  mentioned  above,  a 
relatively  small  number  of  large  awards  comprise  a 
substantial  share  of  the  total  amount  of  money  paid  in 
tort  claims.  Since  the  mid  1970s,  states  have  experi¬ 
mented  with  caps  on  damages.  Some  states  place  nu¬ 
merical  limitations  on  pain  and  suffering.  In  the  1970s, 
most  of  these  numerical  restrictions  applied  to  both 
economic  and  non-economic  damages,59  but  in  the 
1980s  almost  all  have  focused  simply  on  pain  and 
suffering.  To  this  point  only  a  handful  of  states  have 
indexed  or  adjusted  their  nominal  dollar  caps  to  sub¬ 
sequent  changes  in  wage  and  price  levels.60 

The  efficacy  of  various  tort  reforms  have  been  as¬ 
sessed  by  economists  and  health  policy  analysts  using 
econometric  methods.61  Danzon,  for  example,  traced 
the  effect  of  mid-1970s  legislation  over  an  extended 
period  of  time  and  updated  her  research  with  claims 
information  as  late  as  1984.  She  demonstrated  that  re¬ 
ductions  in  the  statute  of  limitations  result  in  a  sig¬ 
nificant  decrease  in  claims  frequency.  Moreover,  the 
reversal  of  a  collateral  source  rule  reduced  claims  se¬ 
verity  by  somewhere  between  11  and  19  percent,  and 
claims  frequency  by  around  14  percent.  Finally,  caps 
on  damage  awards  reduced  claims  severity  by  23  per¬ 
cent,  but  did  not  seem  to  have  any  effect  on  the  pro¬ 
pensity  to  initiate  claims. 

In  a  more  recent  study,  Sloan  and  co-authors  com¬ 
bined  data  on  individual  closed  claims  from  the  Na¬ 
tional  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners’  Study 
of  Closed  Claims  From  1975-1978  with  closed  claims 
information  from  1984  collected  by  the  General  Ac¬ 
counting  Office  of  the  United  States  Congress,  and 
analyzed  the  effect  of  tort  reforms  on  claims’  sever¬ 
ity.62  Just  as  did  Danzon,  Sloan  et  al.  found  few  tort 


59  See  e.g.,  Indiana  Code  Annotated,  Section  16-9.5-2-2.1  (Bum’s  Supple¬ 
ment  1986). 

80  We  have  reviewed  the  major  forms  of  tort  reform  in  the  1970s  and 
1980s,  but  our  list  is  not  exhaustive.  For  instance,  Bovbjerg’s  review  of  tort 
reforms  touches  on  arbitration  as  an  effort  to  limit  the  number  of  suits  getting 
into  court,  restrictions  of  ad  damnum  clauses  as  a  method  for  decreasing  the 
size  of  recovery;  expert  witness  standards  as  means  of  increasing  the  plain¬ 
tiffs  difficulty  or  cost  of  winning;  and  precalendar  conference  requirements 
and  preferred  scheduling  for  malpractice  cases  as  means  of  decreasing  the 
costs  of  the  judicial  process.  See  generally  Bovbjerg,  “Legislation  on  Medical 
Malpractice,”  499. 

6 1  The  most  recent  of  these  empirical  analyses  are  Danzon,  “The  Fre¬ 
quency  and  Severity  of  Medical  Malpractice  Claims:  New  Evidence,”  Law 
and  Contemporary  Problems  49  (1986):  37-56;  and  Sloan,  Mergenhagen  and 
Bovbjerg,  “Effects  of  Tort  Reforms  on  the  Value  of  Closed  Medical  Mal¬ 
practice  Claims:  A  Microanalysis,”  forthcoming,  Journal  of  Health  Policy, 
Politics,  and  Law.  Unless  otherwise  stated  we  rely  on  these  authors’  analyses. 
This  is  not  to  overlook  some  of  the  important  research  which  was  done 
before  1985.  See,  in  particular  Reder,  “An  Economic  Analysis  of  Medical 
Malpractice,”  Journal  of  Legal  Studies  5  (1976):  267;  Feldman,  “The  Determi¬ 
nants  of  Medical  Malpractice  Incidence:  Theory  of  Contingency  Fees  and 
Empirical  Evidence,”  Atlantic  Economic  Journal  1  (1979):  59;  Danzon,  “The 
Frequency  and  Severity  of  Medical  Malpractice  Claims,”  Journal  of  Law  and 
Economics  27  (1984):  115;  Adams  and  Zuckerman,  “Variations  in  the  Growth 
and  Incidence  of  Medical  Malpractice  Claims,”  Journal  of  Health  Politics, 
Policy  and  Law  9  (1984):  475;  Sloan,  “State  Responses  to  the  Malpractice  In¬ 
surance  Crisis  of  the  1970s:  An  Empirical  Analysis,”  Journal  of  Health  Poli¬ 
tics,  Policy  and  Law  9  (1985):  629. 

62  See  Sloan,  Mergenhagen  and  Bovbjerg,  “Effects  of  Tort  Reform.” 


reforms  that  reduced  the  amount  paid  per  claim. 
However,  damage  caps  on  the  total  awards,  and  even 
caps  on  just  pain  and  suffering,  substantially  lowered 
the  amounts  paid.  As  well,  changes  in  the  collateral 
source  rule  produced  sizable  reductions  in  average 
payments.  Laws  that  encouraged  arbitration  de¬ 
creased  the  amount  paid  per  claim,  while  changes  in 
the  statute  of  limitations  reduced  the  likelihood  that  a 
claim  would  be  closed  with  payment  but  did  not 
affect  the  overall  amount  per  paid  claim.  All  the  other 
reforms  had  little  statistically  significant  impact. 

Several  conclusions  can  be  drawn  from  these  stud¬ 
ies.  First,  it  appears  that  changes  in  liability  rules  have 
little  effect:  malpractice  litigation  remains  fault-based 
at  its  core  and  legislative  tinkering  changes  this  very 
little.  Statutory  obstacles  to  access  also  seem  to  have 
little  effect,  with  the  exception  of  changes  in  statutes 
of  limitations.  However,  alterations  in  damage  rules — 
i.e.,  caps  or  collateral  source  offsets — do  have  a  sig¬ 
nificant  effect  on  both  the  severity  of  claims  or  even 
the  number  of  claims  brought. 

As  one  might  have  gathered  from  this  review  of 
the  content  of  malpractice  reform,  most  of  these 
measures  have  been  proposed  by  medical  associations 
and  championed  by  their  legislative  supporters.  How¬ 
ever,  when  a  state  legislature  enacts  a  tort  reform 
package,  the  legal  dialogue  does  not  end  there.  Pa¬ 
tients  and  their  attorneys  can  return  to  the  state 
courts  for  decisions  about  how  to  treat  the  new  statu¬ 
tory  law — in  particular,  under  the  state  constitution. 
After  a  decade  of  such  constitutional  challenges,  it  ap¬ 
pears  that  patients  have  fared  quite  well  in  the  judicial 
forum,  with  many  of  the  state  courts  having  struck 
down  some  the  key  reforms,  especially  in  the  damages 
area.63 

Malpractice  reform  bills  can  be  attacked  under  both 
the  federal  and  various  states’  constitutions.  Under  the 
Federal  Constitution,  courts  have  largely  rejected 
equal  protection,  due  process  and  Seventh  Amend¬ 
ment  challenges.64  State  courts  have  been  much  less 
deferential  in  their  constitutional  scrutiny  of  malprac¬ 
tice  legislation.  As  part  of  a  general  resurgence  of 
state  constitutional  activism,65  state  judges  have  been 


63  See  in  general,  Vinson,  “Constitutional  Stumbling  Blocks  to  Legislative 
Tort  Reform,”  Florida  State  Law  Review  15  (1987):  31;  Turkington,  “Consti¬ 
tutional  Limitations  on  Tort  Reform,”  Villanova  Law  Review  32  (1987):  1299; 
Smith,  “Battling  a  Receding  Tort  Frontier:  Constitutional  Attacks  on  Medi¬ 
cal  Malpractice  Laws,”  Oklahoma  Law  Review  38  (1985):  195;  Learner,  “Re¬ 
strictive  Medical  Malpractice  Compensation  Schemes:  A  Constitutional  quid 
pro  quo  Analysis  to  Safeguard  Individual  Liberties,”  Harvard  Journal  on  Leg¬ 
islation  18  (1981):  143. 

64  See  e.g.,  Fein  v.  Permanente,  695  P.  2d  665,  38  Cal.  3d  137,  211  Cal. 
Rptr.  368  (1985),  appeal  dismissed,  106  S.Ct.  214  (1986). 

65  See  Brennan,  “The  Bill  of  Rights  in  the  States:  The  Revival  of  State 
Constitutions  as  Guardians  of  Individual  Rights,”  New  York  University  Law 
Review  61  (1986):  535. 


50 


especially  offended  when  they  perceive  physician 
groups  having  secured  statutory  measures  that  sub¬ 
stantially  cut  back  on  the  tort  rights  of  injured  pa¬ 
tients  without  the  latter  receiving  some  form  of  quid 
pro  quo  along  the  lines  of  no-fault  workers’  compensa¬ 
tion.  That  judicial  sentiment  has  been  displayed  in  a 
number  of  constitutional  guises;  in  the  1970s  usually 
under  equal  protection  or  due  process,  but  in  the 
1980s  more  often  under  the  right  of  access  to  the 
court  or  to  a  jury  trial.66 

It  is  no  accident  that  this  judicial  sentiment  tends  to 
surface  in  challenges  to  the  constitutionality  of  restric¬ 
tions  on  tort  damages.  While  these  are  the  measures 
that  do  offer  the  greatest  relief  to  doctors  from  the 
burden  of  the  malpractice  regime,  the  cases  where  the 
caps  are  applied  often  involve  the  most  seriously  in¬ 
jured  patients,  and  in  situations  where  judges  realize 
that  some  of  the  supposedly  “excess”  award  is  really 
going  to  pay  the  percentage  contingent  fee  of  the  at¬ 
torney  whose  services  were  necessary  to  secure  any 
tort  recovery  for  the  injured  party.  In  addition,  as  we 
have  seen,  the  conclusion  of  more  systematic  research 
is  that  under  the  common  law  system,  there  are  far 
fewer  malpractice  claims  being  made  (let  alone  paid) 
in  the  legal  system  than  there  are  malpractice  events 
and  injuries  occurring  in  the  health  system. 

One  other  alternative  for  overcoming  the  deficien¬ 
cies  of  the  present  system  might  be  to  move  from  a 
tort  to  a  contract  regime.  Some  have  argued  that  tort 
law  smacks  too  much  of  “command  and  control”  reg¬ 
ulation,  and  thus  retards  the  efficiencies  and  inno¬ 
vation  that  could  arise  out  of  a  “free  market” 
approach.67  They  advocate  much  broader  scope  for 
voluntarily-negotiated  contracts  between  patients  and 
providers  which  would  stipulate  whether  and  how 
much  compensation  should  be  paid  for  injuries  oc¬ 
curring  in  the  course  of  therapy.  In  theory,  these  con¬ 
tractual  alternatives  would  be  more  efficient  in 
reflecting  the  mutual  interests  of  the  immediate  parties 
while  reducing  the  administrative  costs  associated 
with  litigation.  For  example,  providers  and  patients 
could  stipulate  that  in  the  event  of  injury  due  to  sub¬ 
standard  care,  certain  scheduled  damages  would  be 
available.  The  definition  of  substandard  care  in  this 
case  could  be  left  up  to  binding  arbitration  which  was 
faster  and  cheaper  than  jury  trials. 

68  Smith  v.  Department  of  Insurance,  507  So.2d  1080  (Fla.  1987);  Kansas 
Malpractice  Victims  v.  Bell,  757  P.2d  251  (Kan.  1988);  Lucas  v.  United  States, 
757  S.W.2d  687  (Tex.  1988);  Sofie  v.  Fibreboard  Corp.,  771  P.  2d  711  (Wash. 
1989).  In  Boyd  v.  Bulala,  647  F.Supp.  781,  786  (W.D.  Va.  1986)  a  federal  dis¬ 
trict  court  held  that  legislation  violated  both  the  federal  and  Virginia’s  guar¬ 
antee  of  a  jury  trial,  but  that  state  law  interpretation  was  reversed  in 
Etheridge  v.  Medical  Center  Hospital,  376  S.E.  2d  525  (Va.  1989),  and  in  Boyd 
v.  Bulala,  872  F.2d  119  (4th  Cir.  1989),  regarding  the  federal  constitution. 

87  See  generally,  Havighurst,  “Private  Reform  of  Tort- Law  Dogma: 
Market  Opportunities  and  Legal  Obstacles,”  Law  and  Contemporary  Problems 
49  (1986):  143. 


Of  course,  there  are  drawbacks  associated  with 
contractual  arrangements  of  this  sort.  The  contracts 
themselves  could  be  the  subject  of  a  good  deal  of  liti¬ 
gation,  decreasing  the  potential  gains  in  efficiency. 
More  important,  both  state  courts  and  state  legisla¬ 
tures  have  exhibited  great  concern  about  the  likely 
fairness  of  the  terms  of  a  contract  struck  between  a 
provider  and  a  patient,  given  the  inequalities  in  bar¬ 
gaining  power  and  knowledge  that  exist  between 
these  parties.68  Thus  while  contractual  alternatives  to 
malpractice  litigation  do  represent  another  option  that 
should  be  explored,  they  are  clearly  not  a  panacea  for 
the  problem  of  medical  injury. 


Beyond  Tort  Law 

The  reforms  we  have  suggested  for  tort  law  might 
go  some  distance  in  terms  of  rationalizing  the  system. 
However,  we  are  still  left  with  the  overwhelming  em¬ 
pirical  facts  that  few  negligent  adverse  events  now 
lead  to  claims,  and  conversely  that  many  claims  arise 
out  of  situations  in  which  there  is  no  evidence  of  neg¬ 
ligence  or  even  of  injury.  There  are  both  too  many 
unwarranted  claims,  and  too  many  apppropriate 
claims  that  are  never  brought.  Any  comprehensive 
review  of  the  medical  malpractice  crisis  must  at  least 
consider  what  options  lie  beyond  tort  litigation. 

The  tort  reforms  discussed  in  the  previous  section 
modify  the  rights  and  obligations  of  patients  and  doc¬ 
tors  in  malpractice  litigation.  They  do  not,  however, 
change  the  basic  ground  rules — that  the  patient  must 
prove  to  a  jury  that  he  or  she  was  injured  due  to  the 
negligence  of  a  physician  or  health  care  provider. 
There  are,  however,  numerous  alternatives  to  tradi¬ 
tional  tort  litigation,  some  modest,  some  major.  In  this 
section  we  review  several  such  methods  through 
which  one  might  provide  compensation  to  patients  in¬ 
jured  as  a  result  of  their  medical  care,  and  also  create 
incentives  for  better  care  by  providers. 

Alternative  Dispute  Resolution — Given  the  high 
administrative  as  well  as  emotional  costs  of  litigation, 
many  have  sought  alternative  dispute  resolution  for¬ 
mats  for  medical  malpractice  claims.  The  term  “alter¬ 
native  dispute  resolution”  is  an  umbrella  concept 
covering  a  variety  of  specific  procedures  designed  to 
provide  fair  outcomes  at  lower  costs.  Included  in 
ADR  are  such  approaches  as  arbitration,  or  media¬ 
tion.69  In  the  area  of  medical  malpractice,  the  most 
prominent  vehicle  has  been  the  pretreatment  agree¬ 
ment  through  which  patients  accept  binding  arbitra- 


68  Havighurst,  “Private  Reform  of  Tort-Law  Dogma,”  163-4. 

89  See  Goldberg,  Green,  and  Sander,  Dispute  Resolution,  (Boston:  Little 
Brown  and  Company,  1985). 


51 


tion  in  lieu  of  a  jury  trial,  an  agreement  that  is  made 
enforceable  by  legislation.70  If  a  patient  is  injured, 
and  seeks  compensation,  the  determination  of  liability 
and  the  amount  of  damages  is  made  by  a  neutral  arbi¬ 
trator  rather  than  a  court.  Since  the  process  of  arbi¬ 
tration  is  streamlined,  there  are  comparatively  less 
administrative  costs  than  in  traditional  litigation. 

Courts  generally  have  found  this  arbitration  model 
acceptable.71  They  have,  however,  carefully  scruti¬ 
nized  the  terms  of  the  initial  agreement  and  the  cir¬ 
cumstances  of  its  signing  in  order  to  ensure  that  there 
was  a  fully  informed  and  voluntary  waiver  of  the  pa¬ 
tient’s  right  to  a  jury  trial.72  Such  judicial  scrutiny 
has  largely  dissipated  the  possible  gains  from  arbitra¬ 
tion  as  a  more  expeditious  and  economic  procedure. 
In  turn,  this  may  explain  why  econometric  analyses 
noted  above  have  shown  little  impact  of  arbitration 
models  on  changes  in  the  number  of  claims  or  sever¬ 
ity  of  claims.73  Thus,  while  further  experimentation 
in  dispute  resolution  procedures  might  be  appropriate 
for  the  benefit  secured  in  individual  cases,  binding  ar¬ 
bitration  does  not  appear  to  offer  huge  potential  as  an 
alternative  to  tort  litigation. 

Administrative  Fault — The  administrative  fault 
system  advocated  by  the  American  Medical  Associa¬ 
tion  is  a  more  serious  attempt  at  ADR,  because  this 
program  relies  not  on  ad  hoc  agreements  and  adjudi¬ 
cation,  but  on  a  new  specialized  tribunal  that  would 
be  responsible  for  resolving  all  malpractice  claims, 
while  retaining  fault  as  the  basis  for  liability.74  Spe¬ 
cifically,  the  proposal  contemplates  the  establishment 
of  a  state  agency  called  the  “Medical  Practices 
Review  Board.”  The  review  board  would  adjudicate 
medical  liability  disputes,  investigate  substandard  care 
by  physicians,  undertake  disciplinary  proceedings,  and 
act  as  a  source  of  information  concerning  perform¬ 
ance  by  licensed  physicians.75 

Under  this  plan,  malpractice  claims  would  be  re¬ 
moved  from  the  civil  justice  system  and  placed  before 
this  administrative  board  for  determination.76  Either 


70  As  of  1987,  15  states  had  in  place  such  statutes.  See  Henderson,  “Agree¬ 
ments  Changing  the  Forum  for  Resolving  Malpractice  Claims,”  Law  and 
Contemporary  Problems  49  (1986):  243. 

71  Madden  v.  Kaiser  Foundation  Hospital,  552  P.2d  1178  (Cal.  1976);  Morris 
v.  Metriyakool,  344  N.W.2d  736  (Mich.  1984). 

72  See  Bedikian,  “Medical  Malpractice  Arbitration  Act:  Michigan’s  Experi¬ 
ence  with  Arbitration,”  American  Journal  of  Law  and  Medicine  10  (1984):  42. 

73  See  pages  48-49. 

74  See  Johnson,  Phillips,  Orentlicker,  and  Hatlie,  “A  Fault  Based  Adminis¬ 
trative  Alternative  for  Resolving  Medical  Malpractice  Claims,”  Vanderbilt 
Law  Review  42  (1989):  1366. 

75  The  board  would  be  composed  of  seven  people,  each  serving  a  term  of 
five  years.  At  least  two,  but  not  more  than  three,  of  the  members  of  the 
board  would  be  physicians.  One  or  more  would  be  consumer  representatives. 
The  board  itself  would  appoint  the  other  key  personnel  in  the  agency,  includ¬ 
ing  attorneys,  claims  reviewers  and  investigators. 

76  The  claims  resolution  process  would  be  divided  into  four  stages.  First, 
there  would  be  a  pre-hearing  in  which  an  individual  who  contended  that  he 
or  she  was  injured  as  a  result  of  inadequate  health  care  would  initiate  the 
claims  process  by  filling  out  a  simple  form.  The  form  would  be  reviewed  by 


party  could  then  appeal  the  Board’s  decision  to  an 
intermediate  appellate  court  in  the  state.  The  AMA 
proposal  also  calls  for  a  number  of  changes  in  sub¬ 
stantive  medical  liability  law.77  In  an  effort  to  pro¬ 
vide  some  quid  pro  quo  for  patients  and  thus  survive 
constitutional  challenge  in  the  state  courts,  the  AMA 
proposal  contemplates  broad  powers  for  the  Medical 
Practices  Review  Board  in  credentialing  and  disciplin¬ 
ing  physicians.78 

The  administrative  fault-based  proposal  is  an  at¬ 
tempt  to  develop  an  integrated  approach  to  both  com¬ 
pensation  for  past  medical  injuries  and  deterrence  of 
substandard  practice  in  the  future.  There  are,  how¬ 
ever,  some  concerns.  First,  the  proposal  does  face  a 
real  constitutional  difficulty,  because  while  fault  is  re¬ 
tained  as  the  basis  for  liability,  the  jury  is  eliminated 
entirely.  If  state  courts  are  already  striking  down  caps 
on  tort  damages  as  offensive  to  the  right  of  access  to 
the  courts  and  juries,  they  will  be  very  skeptical 
about  the  validity  of  the  AMA  proposal.  Next,  while 
many  have  advocated  increased  efforts  by  state  dis¬ 
ciplinary  panels,79  it  is  not  at  all  clear  that  the  best 
efforts  of  such  boards  will  result  in  significant  deter¬ 
rence  signals.80  Probably  in  partial  recognition  of 


board  personnel  and,  if  it  appeared  to  have  merit,  would  be  reviewed  by  a 
peer  expert.  If  both  the  claims  reviewer  and  peer  expert  felt  that  the  claim 
had  some  merit,  an  attorney  on  the  board’s  staff  would  represent  the  injured 
claimant.  If  the  claim  was  felt  to  be  without  merit,  the  patient  could  still 
pursue  the  dismissed  claim  with  a  private  attorney. 

In  the  hearing  stage,  an  examiner,  acting  like  an  administrative  law  judge 
in  the  Social  Security  system,  would  preside  in  a  judicial  hearing.  Prior  to 
the  hearing,  both  patient  and  health  care  provider  would  be  required  to 
submit  blind  settlement  offers.  The  parties  would  be  subject  to  sanctions  if 
the  outcome  of  the  case  did  not  represent  a  significant  improvement  over  the 
settlement  offer  rejected  at  this  stage.  At  the  hearing  itself,  certain  eviden¬ 
tiary  rules  would  be  in  place,  but  the  judge  would  be  able  to  play  an  active 
role  and  could  call  independent  experts  if  she  saw  fit. 

The  hearing  examiner’s  decision  could  be  appealed  to  the  Board.  A  panel 
of  three  members  of  the  Board,  only  one  of  whom  could  be  a  physician, 
would  hear  an  appeal.  No  new  factual  determinations  would  be  made  at  this 
stage.  For  all  legal  issues,  however,  the  panel  would  conduct  de  novo 
review. 

77  The  AMA  envisions  some  changes  in  the  standard  of  care  which,  while 
not  embracing  the  traditional  locality  rule,  do  acknowledge  the  role  that  the 
availability  or  unavailability  of  specialized  equipment  and  personnel  can  play 
in  treatment  decisions.  Another  important  change  concerns  causation.  The 
proposal  calls  for  abandonment  of  the  more  probable  than  not  threshold  for  a 
finding  of  causation  and  allows  liability  if  providers’  negligence  was  a  con¬ 
tributing  factor.  In  these  cases,  damages  would  be  apportioned  according  to  a 
pure  comparative  negligence  standard.  With  regard  to  informed  consent,  the 
AMA  would  adopt  the  reasonable  patient  standard.  The  proposal  also  op¬ 
poses  lump  sum  damage  claims.  In  addition,  it  would  cap  non-economic  dam¬ 
ages  by  an  amount  tied  to  the  percentage  of  the  average  annual  wage  in  the 
state.  Joint  and  several  liability  would  be  eliminated  from  medical  negligence 
claims.  A  periodic  payment  schedule  would  be  put  into  place  and  the  collat¬ 
eral  source  rule  would  be  overturned. 

78  First,  hospitals  would  be  required  to  review  physician  performances  on 
a  regular  basis  and  physicians  who  are  not  affiliated  with  institutions  would 
be  required  to  participate  in  a  credentialing  process  undertaken  by  the  state. 
The  board  would  also  maintain  a  clearing-house  for  information  regarding 
physician  discipline  and  sub-standard  care.  The  board  would  also  have  au¬ 
thority  to  conduct  on  site  review  of  physicians’  practices.  Broad  powers  for 
disciplining  physicians  would  be  lodged  with  the  board.  See  generally  Ameri¬ 
can  Medical  Association/Specialty  Society  Medical  Liability  Project,  Model 
Medical  Liability  and  Patient  Protection  Act  (May  1989). 

79  See  Wolfe,  Bergman,  and  Silver,  Medical  Malpractice:  The  Need  for  Dis¬ 
ciplinary  Reform  not  Tort  Reform  (1986). 

80  See  Kusserow,  Handley  and  Yessian,  “An  Overview  of  State  Medical 
Discipline,”  JAMA  257  (1987):  820.  Recently,  several  large  states  including 


52 


these  potential  drawbacks,  the  American  Medical 
Association  has  prudently  suggested  that  its  plan  be 
initiated  in  a  few  states  on  an  experimental  basis.  This 
experimental  period  would  also  allow  some  assess¬ 
ment  of  the  ways  in  which  administrative  fault  either 
ameliorates  or  exacerbates  the  problems  with  peer 
review  at  the  hospital  level. 

Organizational  Liability — Another  possible  alterna¬ 
tive  to  traditional  malpractice  litigation  is  to  relieve 
physicians  of  the  direct  financial  burden  of  malprac¬ 
tice  insurance  by  shifting  the  focus  of  legal  liability 
from  individual  physician  to  the  hospital  or  health 
care  institution  connected  with  the  incident.  Organiza¬ 
tional  liability  is  consistent  with  a  number  of  doctrinal 
developments  in  tort  litigation  that  have  expanded  the 
“corporate”  or  “vicarious”  liability  of  hospitals  for 
the  negligence  of  non-employee  physicians.81  It  also 
reflects  some  new  insurance  “channeling”  arrange¬ 
ments  wherein  large  hospitals  provide  their  associated 
physicians  with  coverage  under  the  institutions’  own 
policy. 

These  changes  in  malpractice  law  and  insurance  ap¬ 
proaches  recognize  that  the  hospital  is  better  able  to 
assess  its  risks  and  to  distribute  the  burden  of  its  lia¬ 
bility  across  a  broad  pool  of  constituents,  and  thereby 
obviate  the  problems  faced  by  individual  physicians  in 
the  high  risk  sectors  in  obtaining  insurance  at  reason¬ 
able  cost.  Even  more  attractive  about  this  arrange¬ 
ment  are  the  new  incentives  and  opportunities  it 
creates  for  institutional  quality  assurance.  Because 
hospitals  are  much  more  likely  to  have  their  malprac¬ 
tice  premiums  set  according  to  their  claims  experi¬ 
ence,  this  new  focus  of  liability  would  considerably 
sharpen  the  deterrence  incentive  created  by  malprac¬ 
tice  litigation.  The  hospital  also  has  the  institutional 
perspective  and  capacity  to  develop  comprehensive 
standards  and  procedures  that  promote  quality  assur- 


Califomia,  New  York,  Massachusetts  and  Florida  have  undertaken  sweeping 
reforms  in  their  state  medical  disciplinary  apparat  While  it  is  too  early  to 
judge  in  any  final  way  the  efficacy  of  such  reforms,  it  appears  that  reviewing 
agencies  may  have  difficulty  gaining  access  to  appropriate  information  re¬ 
garding  quality  of  care.  See  Keidan.  Physician  Discipline:  Cure  for  the  Medical 
Malpractice  Crisis?  (unpublished  manuscript  1989)  (on  file  with  authors). 
These  agencies  are  also  especially  sensitive  to  the  vagaries  of  state  funding 
and  have  had  difficulty  maintaining  continuous  employment  of  qualified  in¬ 
vestigators  and  lawyers.  Thus,  if  the  state’s  commitment  to  such  disciplinary 
panels  is  not  strong,  especially  in  a  fiscal  sense,  deterrence  under  an  adminis¬ 
trative  fault  plan  could  be  weakened  significantly. 

81  See  South  wick,  “Hospital  Liability:  Two  Theories  Have  Been  Merged,” 
Journal  of  Legal  Medicine  4  (1983):  1;  and  for  recent  reviews  of  the  cases,  see 
Jackson  v.  Power,  743  P.2d  1376  (Alaska  1987>,  Insinga  v.  Lobelia,  543  So.2d 
209  (Fla.  1989). 


ance  and  safety,82  akin  to  a  “systems”  approach  83 
that  would  lessen  the  individual  finger  pointing  that 
makes  medical  malpractice  so  emotionally  destructive 
for  providers. 

There  are,  of  course,  problems  with  organizational 
liability.  First,  some  would  question  whether  it  is 
equitable  to  make  such  hospital  liability  mandatory 
and  exclusive.  They  would  argue  that  legal  insula¬ 
tion  of  the  physician  from  liability  would  decrease 
deterrence  incentives.  In  addition,  there  would  be  a  fi¬ 
nancial  problem  in  the  legal  shift  to  organizational  li¬ 
ability  as  hospitals  and  other  health  care  institutions 
were  saddled  with  much  larger  liability  insurance  pre¬ 
miums,  while  physicians  would  no  longer  have  to  pay 
such  premiums.  Unquestionably,  shifts  in  health  care 
reimbursement  schedules  would  have  to  accompany 
any  such  move  to  organizational  liability.  In  addition, 
small  hospitals  would  have  to  aggregate  their  risk 
pools  with  other  hospitals  in  order  to  function  under 
organizational  liability. 

Finally,  most  physicians  are  not  employed  by  hospi¬ 
tals  and  typically  they  have  jealously  guarded  their 
professional  autonomy,  and  their  relations  with  pa¬ 
tients,  against  control  by  hospital  administrators.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  fact  is  that  doctors  already  face 
growing  scrutiny  from  judges  and  juries  in  malprac¬ 
tice  litigation  and  recently  many  state  legislatures 
have  been  directing  hospitals  to  create  quality  assur¬ 
ance  programs  that  contemplate  ongoing  review  of  in¬ 
dividual  physicians’  practice  decisions  and  patterns,  in 
order  to  ensure  safer  and  better  care  for  patients. 
Thus,  doctors  are  increasingly  subject  to  the  kind  of 
supervision  contemplated  by  organizational  liability, 
without  having  the  benefit  of  any  relief  for  the  costs 
of  malpractice  insurance. 

Ironically,  this  expansion  of  quality  assurance  ac¬ 
tivities  in  an  effort  to  reduce  the  need  for  and  inci¬ 
dence  of  malpractice  litigation  by  patients  has  in  turn 
precipitated  yet  another  bout  of  litigation,  this  time  by 
affected  doctors.  The  ultimate  source  of  the  medical 
staffs  ability  to  secure  and  enforce  a  higher  quality  of 
care  in  the  hospital  is  the  peer  review  committees’ 
power  to  suspend  or  revoke  the  credentials  of  those 
incumbent  doctors  who  have  provided  sub-standard 


82  As  mentioned  previously,  changes  in  liability  standards  have  increased 
incentives  for  physicians  to  develop  appropriate  practice  standards.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  in  a  major  risk  management  effort,  the  Department  of  Anesthesia  at 
Harvard  Medical  School  devised  specific  detailed  and  mandatory  standards 
for  minimal  patient  monitoring  during  anesthesia.  Such  standards  had  not  ex¬ 
isted  previously  but  were  accepted  by  practitioners.  See  Eichhom,  Cooper 
and  Cullen,  “Standards  for  Patient  Monitoring  During  Anesthesia  at  Harvard 
Medical  School,”  JAMA  256  (1986):  1017-1020.  These  practice  standards  ap¬ 
peared  to  have  lowered  malpractice  claims  against  anesthesiologists  at  partici¬ 
pating  institutions  and  efforts  are  now  underway  to  develop  similar  standards 
for  obstetricians  at  Harv  ard  Medical  School. 

83  Berwick,  “Continuous  Improvement,”  53. 


53 


care  in  the  hospital,  and  to  deny  hospital  staff  privi¬ 
leges  to  applicants  who  have  shown  evidence  of  poor 
quality  elsewhere.  Such  decisions  to  suspend  or  deny 
practice  credentials  can  be  quite  controversial,  and 
lead  to  litigation  on  a  variety  of  fronts. 

First,  physicians  who  have  suffered  suspension  of 
credentials  may  claim  that  their  due  process  rights 
were  not  respected,  especially  in  cases  involving 
public  hospitals.84  Alternatively,  physicians  may  seek 
rights  of  cross  examination  and  other  trappings  of  ad¬ 
judicative  process.85  More  importantly,  physicians 
who  lose  their  practice  privileges  may  allege  antitrust 
violations:  the  aggrieved  physician  will  claim  that  the 
decision  to  suspend  privileges  was  not  motivated  by 
concerns  about  quality  of  care,  but  rather  was  an  at¬ 
tempt  to  curb  competition  in  the  specialty  area.86 
Indeed  peer  review  activities  are  now  drawing  con¬ 
siderable  antitrust  scrutiny,  a  trend  that  will  likely 
accelerate  in  light  of  a  recent  Supreme  Court  deci¬ 
sion.87  Yet  another  concern  of  physicians  who  serve 
on  peer  review  committees  is  the  threat  of  involve¬ 
ment  in  malpractice  litigation.  Since  these  committees 
often  pass  judgment  on  specific  incidents  involving 
physicians  on  the  medical  staff,  their  activities  are  of 
special  interest  to  plaintiffs’  attorneys  who  would  like 
access  to  peer  review  committee  documents.  While 
most  states  provide  explicit  immunity  for  peer  review 
activities,  some  state  courts  have  managed  to  find  ex¬ 
ceptions  to  these  statutes  in  order  to  allow  discovery 
of  the  peer  review  data.88  Such  judicial  decisions 


84  See  Richardson  v.  St.  Johns  Mercy  Hospital,  674  S.W.2d  200 
(Mo.App.1984). 

85  See  Rao  v.  St  Elizabeth's  Hospital,  488  N.E.2d  685  (Ill.App.  5  Dist. 
1986). 

86  It  seems  likely  that  there  will  be  more  antitrust  litigation  in  the  future. 
Since  1975,  with  the  decision  of  Goldfarb  v.  Virginia  State  Bar,  421  U.S.  773 
(1975),  the  Supreme  Court  has  indicated  that  the  practice  of  the  learned  pro¬ 
fessions  will  be  considered  commerce,  and  thus  subject  to  the  scrutiny  of  the 
antitrust  laws.  The  initial  Supreme  Court  cases  regarding  health  care  antitrust 
concerned  efforts  to  remove  anticompetitive  rules  which  had  been  put  in 
place  by  insurers  and  providers.  See  Union  Labor  Life  Insurance  Company  v. 
Pireno,  458  U.S.  119  (1981);  Arizona  v.  Maricopa  County  Medical  Society,  457 
U.S.  332  (1981).  Soon  however,  aggrieved  individuals  began  to  request  anti¬ 
trust  scrutiny  regarding  the  behavior  of  individual  hospitals  or  physicians. 
See  Jefferson  Parish  Hospital  District  #2  v.  Hyde,  466  U.S.  2  (1984);  Weiss  v. 
York  Hospital,  745  F.2d  786  (3rd  Cir.  1984). 

87  See  Patrick  v.  Burget,  108  S.Ct.  1658  (1988).  With  the  decision  of  Patrick 
v.  Burget,  the  Supreme  Court  indicated  that  the  state  action  doctrine  would 
not  immunize  state-required  peer  review  activities  by  private  hospital  staffs 
from  antitrust  litigation  unless  states  provided  official  review  of  such  private 
decisions.  Although  the  Health  Care  Quality  Improvement  Act  of  1986  was 
intended  to  limit  antitrust  litigation  regarding  peer  review,  many  observers 
doubt  that  it  will  have  this  effect.  See  e.g.  Colantonio,  “The  Health  Care 
Quality  Improvement  Act  of  1986  and  its  Impact  on  Hospital  Law,”  West 
Virginia  Law  Review  91  (1988):  91;  Blumstein  and  Sloan,  “Antitrust  in  Hospi¬ 
tal  Peer  Review,”  Law  and  Contemporary  Problems  51  (1988):  7.  Thus  we  can 
expect  continued  antitrust  scrutiny  of  peer  review  activities.  See  Bolt  v.  Hali¬ 
fax  Hospital  Medical  Center,  851  F.2d  1273  (11th  Circuit),  vacated  and  peti¬ 
tion  for  rehearing  en  banc  granted,  861  F.2d  1233  (11th  Cir.  1988),  reinstated 
in  part  and  vacated  in  part  en  banc,  874  F.2d  755  (11th  Cir.  1989).  Lawyers 
have  had  some  doubts  about  bringing  antitrust  suits  in  this  area,  and  since  the 
major  Supreme  Court  decision  is  so  recent,  it  is  difficult  to  predict  the 
amount  of  litigation  that  will  occur  in  the  future.  Nonetheless,  the  Patrick  de¬ 
cision  can  only  serve  as  a  litigation  incentive. 

88  See  Kalish  v.  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital,  270  N.W.  2d  783  (Minn.  1978). 


appear  to  be  influenced  by  the  facts  of  the  individual 
case,  rather  than  the  specific  structure  of  the  state  im¬ 
munity  laws.89  Concerns  about  the  confidentiality  of 
peer  review  will  likely  continue  to  be  an  area  of 
active  litigation  in  the  1990s,  especially  as  more  states 
pass  laws  encouraging  organizational  peer  review  and 
quality  assurance  activities,  and  require  that  some  of 
this  data  be  turned  over  to  the  state  for  regulatory 
purposes.90 

These  various  types  of  litigation  create  serious  con¬ 
cerns  on  the  part  of  physicians  involved  in  peer 
review.  Even  those  physicians  who  recognize  that  the 
best  long-term  response  to  malpractice  litigation  is 
better  quality  medical  practice,  and  that  a  physician’s 
peers  are  better  judges  of  medical  care  than  lawyers 
or  juries,  are  hesitant  to  become  involved  in  peer 
review  activities  that  may  lead  to  litigation.  While  this 
is  and  will  continue  to  be  a  significant  problem  even 
in  the  present  system  of  tort  litigation,  it  would 
become  even  more  prominent  if  one  moved  to  general 
organizational  liability  of  hospitals.  Thus,  any  compre¬ 
hensive  effort  to  address  medical  malpractice  litiga¬ 
tion  must  also  address  the  legal  problems  raised  by 
peer  review  activities. 

No-Fault  Patient  Compensation — The  drawbacks  of 
both  traditional  tort  litigation  and  of  those  alternatives 
that  still  rely  on  determinations  of  fault  have  led  a 
number  of  people  to  advocate  “no  fault”  approaches 
to  medical  injury  compensation.  As  far  back  as  the 
early  1970s,  a  number  of  scholars  were  proposing  par¬ 
tial  or  complete  no-fault  systems.91  The  partial  no 
fault  approaches  center  on  accelerated  compensation 
for  designated  injuries  that  are  quite  likely  to  be 
avoidable.92  These  particular  injuries  would  be  ex¬ 
tracted  from  the  tort  regime  and  be  compensated 
administratively.  Medical  adversity  insurance  differs 
from  pure  no-fault  or  social  insurance  in  that  the  pro¬ 
viders  of  care  remain  responsible  for  paying  for  the 
listed  outcomes — a  form  of  “strict  liability”  through 
provider-purchased,  experience-rated  casualty  insur¬ 
ance.  More  recently,  proponents  have  been  able  to 
draw  on  the  experience  of  New  Zealand 93  and 


89  Compare  Coburn  v.  Seda,  677  P.2d  173  (1984),  with  Chandra  v.  Sprin¬ 
kle,  678  S.W.2d  804  (Mo.  1984). 

90  See  e.g.  Beth  Israel  Hospital  Association  v.  The  Board  of  Registration  in 
Medicine,  515  N.E.2d  574  (Mass.  1987). 

91  See  Havighurst  and  Tancredi,  “Medical  Adversity  Insurance,  a  No- 
Fault  to  Medical  Malpractice  and  Quality  Assurance,”  Insurance  Law  Journal 
613  (1974):  69;  O’Connell,  “No-Fault  Insurance  for  Injuries  Arising  from 
Medical  Treatment:  A  Proposal  for  Elective  Coverage,”  Emory  Law  Journal 
24  (1975):  21. 

92  See  Tancredi,  “Designing  a  No-Fault  Alternative,”  Law  and  Contempo¬ 
rary  Problems  49  (1986):  277;  American  Bar  Association,  Designated  Compen¬ 
sable  Event  System:  A  Feasibility  Study  (1979).  The  latest  iteration  of  the 
concept  is  the  ACE  (accelerated  compensable  event). 

93  See  Gellhorn,  “Medical  Malpractice  Litigation  (U.S.) — Medical  Mishap 
Compensation  (N.Z.),”  Cornell  Law  Review  73  (1988):  170. 


54 


Sweden  94  to  answer  the  critics  of  no-fault  and  to  de¬ 
velop  realistic  approaches  to  an  administrative  com¬ 
pensation  system.95  In  both  Britain  and  Canada,  there 
is  sentiment  for  use  of  a  no-fault  model.96  In  this 
country,  the  states  of  Virginia  and  Florid?  have  put 
into  effect  no-fault  compensation  plans  for  neonatal 
neurological  injury.97 

How  does  a  no-fault  system  work  for  compensation 
of  medical  injury?  In  Sweden,  a  combine  of  insurance 
companies  provides  a  no-fault  insurance  program.98 
Complementing,  yet  separate  from,  the  insurance 
compensation  plan  is  the  Medical  Responsibility 
Board  (MRB)  that  hears  complaints  about  quality  of 
care  rendered  to  individuals.99  The  advantage  of  un¬ 
coupling  the  compensation  and  deterrent  approaches 
to  medical  injuries  as  the  Swedes  have  done  is  that  it 
frees  both  functions  from  the  adversarial  notions  of 
tort  litigation,  providing  greater  and  more  equitable 
compensation  and  stronger  deterrence  signals. 100 

Nonetheless,  there  are  significant  problems  with  the 
no-fault  approach.  Many  have  argued  that  our  major 
present-day  use  of  no-fault  within  workers’  compensa¬ 
tion  has  failed  to  provide  appropriate  compensation 
for  individuals  suffering  from  occupational  dis¬ 
eases.101  Still  others  fear  that  a  no-fault  approach 


94  See  Rosenthal.  Dealing  With  Medical  Malpractice :  The  British  and  Swed¬ 
ish  Experience.  (1988)  131-206. 

95  See  Halley,  Fowks.  Bigler.  Ryan.  Medical  Malpractice  Solutions:  Systems 
and  Proposals  for  Injury  Compensation  (Springfield.  Ill.,  Charles  Thomas 
1989). 

96  See  British  Medical  Association.  No-Fault  Compensation  Working  Party 
Report  (1987);  R.  Prichard.  Medical  Malpractice  (1989). 

97  See  White,  "Innovative  No-Fault  Tort  Reform  for  an  Endangered  Spe¬ 
cialty',”  Virginia  Law  Review ■  74  (1988):  1487.  Some  have  criticized  the 
Virginia  system  for  only  controlling  eases  of  people  who  would  probably  re¬ 
cover  in  the  tort  system,  thereby  resulting  in  less  compensation  for  them  and 
no  more  compensation  for  others.  See  Gallup.  "Can  No-Fault  Compensation 
of  Impaired  Infants  Alleviate  the  Malpractice  Crisis  in  Obstetrics?”  Journal  of 
Health  Politics.  Policy  and  Law.  14  (1989):  69. 

98  A  patient  seeking  compensation  for  medical  injury  must  merely  show 
that  her  injuries  are  of  a  designated  type  and  compensation  is  available. 
There  need  be  no  allegation  of  negligence,  and  thus  physicians  often  assist 
their  patients  in  the  effort  to  secure  compensation.  See  Oldertz.  "The  Swed¬ 
ish  Patient  Insurance  Scheme — Eight  Years  of  Experience,”  Medical  Legal 
Journal  52  (1984):  43. 

99  Most  such  complaints  are  brought  by  patients  but  physicians  are  encour¬ 
aged  to  self-report  to  their  department  heads  who  in  return  report  to  the 
MRB.  The  MRB  can  discipline  physicians  who  provide  poor  quality  care  or 
can  decide  that  no  action  is  necessary.  The  MRB  has  both  expen  input  and 
political  and  citizen  representatives,  similar  to  the  boards  envisioned  by  the 
AMA’s  fault-based  system. 

100  Patient  compensation  is  more  straightforward  in  the  absence  of 
the  corrective  justice  aspects  of  ton  litigation.  Physicians  can  actually  assist 
patients  in  their  efforts  to  receive  compensation.  On  the  other  hand,  since 
compensation  is  not  directly  sought  from  the  physician  or  his  insurer,  data 
regarding  sub-standard  care  is  more  freely  available.  Quality  assurance  efforts 
proceed  smoothly,  free  from  concerns  about  investigations  by  plaintiffs  attor¬ 
neys  regarding  the  quality  assurance  data.  Thus,  at  least  in  theory,  a  no-fault 
system  would  provide  greater  compensation  and  clearer  deterrent  signals. 

101  See  Barth  and  Hunt.  Workers  Compensation  and  Work-Related  Illnesses 
and  Diseases  (1980):  see  also  Kutchins.  "The  Most  Exclusive  Remedy  is  No 
Remedv  At  AD:  Workers  Compensation  Coverage  for  Occupational  Dis¬ 
eases."  Labor  Law  Journal  32  (1981):  219-20.  Indeed,  one  might  conjecture 
that  determining  causation  in  medical  injury  cases  may  be  much  more  diffi¬ 
cult  than  determining  causation  in  workers’  compensation  cases  in  that  most 
patients  will  have  a  significant  background  of  disease  from  which  the  medical 
care-induced  injury  must  be  disentangled.  Thus  no-fault  approaches  to  medi¬ 
cal  injuries  will  likely  have  inherently  higher  administrative  costs  than 
workers’  compensation. 


would  do  away  with  the  deterrent  effect  of  medical 
malpractice  litigation.  This  contention,  however, 
overlooks  the  fact  that  no-fault  is  still  a  mode  of  legal 
liability  with  one  party  required  to  compensate  the 
victims  of  its  activities,  and  the  requisite  insurance 
would  likely  be  provided  at  the  level  of  hospital  or 
other  health  care  organization  where  premiums  could 
be  strongly  experience  rated.102 

Recently,  we  have  completed  a  study  of  medical 
injury,  and  the  costs  arising  out  of  such  injury,  in  the 
state  of  New  York.  The  data  from  this  study  indicate 
that  in  New  York,  at  least,  one  can  provide  full  com¬ 
pensation  for  the  net  financial  losses  of  all  seriously 
injured  patients  for  roughly  the  same  amount  ex¬ 
pended  on  litigation  for  only  a  selected  number  of 
those  negligently  injured.103 

Social  Insurance — The  relationship  between  provid¬ 
ing  health  insurance  for  all  Americans  and  tort  reform 
must  be  underlined,  because  comprehensive  health 
benefits  would  deal  directly  with  many  of  the  patient 
losses  for  which  malpractice  litigation  now  seeks  re¬ 
dress.  One  major  advantage  of  the  Swedish  and  New 
Zealand  systems  for  no-fault  insurance  for  medical 
injury  is  that  these  compensation  systems  are  nestled 
within  a  much  more  encompassing  safety  net  of  social 
welfare  programs.  For  instance,  in  Sweden,  there  is  a 
national  health  system  that  provides  medical  care  for 
all  individuals  and  comprehensive  disability  insurance 
for  lost  earnings.  Thus  their  no-fault  system  does  not 
absorb  much  of  the  costs  arising  out  of  an  iatrogenic 
injury,  and  the  smaller  stake  in  the  outcome  reduces 
the  intensity  of  conflict  in  individual  cases. 

Broader  disability  insurance  and  sick  leave  benefits 
would  also  decrease  the  overall  costs  associated  with 
compensation  programs  for  iatrogenic  injury.  When  a 
collateral  source  offset  is  in  place,  any  increase  in  the 
coverage  of  first  party  loss  insurance  correspondingly 
reduces  the  losses  left  to  be  handled  by  the  much 
more  expensive  system  of  third  party  malprac¬ 
tice  insurance. 

Beyond  Health  Care  Providers — Malpractice  litiga¬ 
tion  is  not  the  only  aspect  of  tort  law  that  plays  a 
major  role  in  the  health  care  area.  Just  as  prominent 
and  often  just  as  troubling  are  product  liability  suits 
against  manufacturers  of  vaccines,  prescription  drugs 
and  other  medical  appliances.  Indeed,  many  of  these 
cases  are  the  result  of  the  combined  action  of  a  manu- 


102  The  best  work  on  workers’  compensation  and  deterrence  suggests  that 
workers’  compensation  has  a  considerable  preventive  effect  on  workplace  fa¬ 
talities.  See  Vlscusi  and  Moore,  Compensation  Mechanisms  for  Job  Risks 
Wages,  Workers'  Compensation  and  Product  Liability  (forthcoming.  Princeton 
University  Press). 

108  See  Harv  ard  Medical  Practice  Study,  Patients.  Doctors,  and  Lawyers 
(1990),  chap.  8. 


55 


facturer  which  designs  and  markets  the  drug  and  a 
physician — the  learned  intermediary — who  prescribes 
the  drug  for  a  patient.104  Thus,  any  effort  to  cut  back 
sharply  on  the  tort  liability  of  the  doctor  is  likely  to 
redirect  the  pressure  by  the  victim  for  tort  relief  to¬ 
wards  the  manufacturer  (as  has  recently  been  evident 
in  the  rise  of  third  party  product  suits  by  employees 
covered  by  no-fault  workers’  compensation).  Because 
drug  manufacturers  do  operate  within  a  national 
market,  the  federal  government  must  be  especially 
sensitive  to  the  possible  impact  of  measures  directed 
at  doctors  and  patients  alone.105  This  is  not  to  imply 
that  there  is  no  legitimate  federal  responsibility  for 
malpractice  law  itself.  As  the  largest  third  party  pur¬ 
chaser  of  health  care,  the  federal  government  must  be 
concerned  about  the  impact  of  tort  litigation  on  the 
costs  and  quality  of  that  care.  In  addition,  the  federal 
government  must  be  sensitive  to  the  way  its  own 
legal  policies  (e.g.,  antitrust)  interact  with  and  occa¬ 
sionally  obstruct  the  efforts  by  individual  states  to  im¬ 
prove  the  situation.106 


104  See  Shulman,  “The  Broader  Message  of  Acutane,”  American  Journal  of 
Public  Health  79  (1989):  1565-1570.  For  a  recent,  revealing  illustration  of  this 
phenomenon,  see  O’Gilvie  v.  International  Playtex,  Inc.,  821  F.  2d.  1438  (10th 
Cir.  1987),  where  a  doctor’s  misdiagnosis  of  toxic  shock  syndrome 
precipitated  an  $11.5  million  jury  verdict  against  the  product  manufacturer, 
including  $10  million  in  punitive  damages. 

105  In  Sweden,  the  institution  of  a  no-fault  insurance  approach  to  medical 
injury  was  wedded  to  a  no-fault  program  for  compensation  for  drug  related 
injuries,  a  program  which  is  underwritten  by  drug  companies.  See  Rosenthal, 
Dealing  With  Medical  Malpractice:  The  British  and  Swedish  Experience.  In  this 
country,  a  no-fault  system  for  vaccine  related  injury  has  recently  been  insti- 
‘uted  by  the  United  States  Congress.  Vaccines  represent  one  of  the  two  ex- 
;eptions  to  the  learned  intermediary  rule  and  thus  vaccine  manufacturers 
must  provide  patients  with  a  warning  concerning  the  risks  associated  with 
vaccination.  See  Reyes  v.  Wyeth  Laboratories,  498  F.2d  1264  (5th  Cir.  1973), 
cert,  denied,  419  U.S.  1096  (1974).  At  least  partially  as  a  result  of  this  re¬ 
quirement  regarding  warning,  vaccine  manufacturers  have  faced  a  great  deal 
of  product  liability  litigation  arising  out  of  parties  injured  by  vaccines.  See 
Institute  of  Medicine,  Vaccine  Supply  and  Innovation  (1985). 

In  response,  Congress  passed  an  amendment  to  Title  III  of  the  Omnibus 
Health  Legislation  which  was  known  as  the  National  Childhood  Vaccine 
Injury  Act.  See  S.1744,  99th  Cong.,  2d  sess.  (1986).  The  Act  creates  a  man¬ 
datory  no-fault  compensation  scheme  for  individuals  injured  by  childhood 
vaccines.  An  injured  party  may  either  accept  compensation  awarded  through 
the  no-fault  proceeding  or  bring  a  separate  civil  suit,  but  in  the  latter  circum¬ 
stance,  theories  of  liabilities  are  significantly  limited.  Under  the  no-fault 
scheme,  burden  of  proofs  are  lower,  as  is  the  potential  compensation.  A  trust 
fund,  consisting  of  an  excise  tax  on  dosages  of  childhood  vaccine,  provides 
compensation.  See  Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1987,  P.L.  100-203,  sec. 
4301-07. 

Of  course,  childhood  vaccines  may  be  a  special  case.  They  are  a  necessary 
public  health  tool  but  not  an  area  of  great  profit  making  by  drug  companies. 
Therefore,  the  industry’s  threats  to  absent  itself  from  the  marketplace  in  this 
particularly  important  area  are  likely  to  bring  about  Congressional  interven¬ 
tion.  Other  types  of  drugs  might  have  less  of  a  claim  on  Congressional  atten¬ 
tion.  Nonetheless,  the  Vaccine  Act  demonstrates  that  tort  reform  could 
extend  itself  to  drugs  and  other  products.  We  await  some  further  maturation 
of  this  program  so  as  to  evaluate  how  well  it  functions. 

106  Consider  the  following  example.  New  York  State’s  Malpractice 
Reform  Bill  of  1986  required  hospitals  to  purchase  excess  coverage  for  physi¬ 
cians  practicing  on  the  staffs  of  the  hospitals.  Thus  the  hospitals  had  to  bear 
new  costs.  They  passed  these  costs  along  to  Blue  Cross/Blue  Shield,  com¬ 
mercial  insurers,  and  to  the  state  Medicaid  program.  However,  federal  Medi- 


CONCLUSION 

We  have  reviewed  a  broad  array  of  issues  posed  by 
malpractice  litigation  for  the  health  care  system.  In 
the  mid-70’s  and  in  the  mid-80’s,  providers  in  many 
regions  of  the  country  felt  grave  concern  about  spiral¬ 
ling  liability  costs.  Although  much  of  the  hue  and  cry 
has  died  down  now  that  premium  levels  have 
plateaued,  the  empirical  research  we  reviewed  earlier 
shows  there  is  ample  room  for  another  upsurge  in  the 
90’s  in  malpractice  claims  and  premiums. 

In  the  interim,  a  host  of  policy  changes  have  been 
proposed  and  adopted  within  each  of  the  health  care, 
legal,  and  insurance  systems  whose  interplay  gener¬ 
ates  the  observed  rates  of  patient  injuries,  tort  claims, 
and  premium  costs.  We  were  asked  to  provide  here  a 
review  of  the  arguments  for  and  against  these  various 
ideas,  not  to  spell  out  and  to  defend  our  own  favored 
proposals.  As  we  have  tried  to  indicate,  though,  there 
are  no  easy  solutions  to  this  complex  set  of  problems: 
indeed,  apparently  desirable  changes  in  one  area  of 
the  law  (e.g.,  antitrust)  may  run  counter  to  equally 
appealing  initiatives  taken  elsewhere  (e.g.,  quality  as¬ 
surance  through  peer  review).  Too  often  conventional 
tort  reform  has  reflected  a  rather  narrow  view  not 
just  of  the  actual  source  of  the  problems  posed  by 
malpractice  litigation  for  doctors,  but  also  of  the  need 
for  some  such  liability  mechanism  to  insure  safe  care 
for  patients.  Recently,  some  systematic  empirical  and 
analytical  work  has  begun  to  emerge  about  more  fun¬ 
damental  possibilities — e.g.,  the  AMA’s  administrative 
fault  proposal  and  the  New  York  state  study  of  the 
incidence,  compensation,  and  prevention  of  patient  in¬ 
juries.  At  this  point  of  time,  then,  it  would  be  prema¬ 
ture  to  endorse  specific  proposals  for  statutory 
change,  especially  for  enactment  at  the  national  level. 
What  is  needed,  instead,  is  careful  analysis  of  the 
growing  body  of  data  now  available,  and  the  design, 
implementation,  and  evaluation  of  demonstration 
projects.  We  would  hope  that  this  Commission, 
whose  primary  focus  is  the  availability  and  affordabil¬ 
ity  of  medical  care,  would  recommend  that  a  similarly 
systematic  inquiry  be  mounted  about  the  ways  in 
which  malpractice  litigation  or  its  alternatives  can 
best  enhance  the  quality  of  the  medical  care  thereby 
provided. 


care  disallowed  any  reimbursement  for  these  purposes,  and  the  issue  is  still  in 
litigation.  This  demonstrates  how  the  prominent  federal  role  in  the  provision 
of  medical  care  creates  federal  interest  in  tort  reform. 


56 


DESIGN  OF  HEALTH  PLAN  BENEFITS  FOR  THE 

NONELDERLY 


Janet  Lundy  * 


As  you  requested,  this  paper  provides  background 
information  on  health  plan  benefits  and  a  discussion  of 
a  standard,  or  “basic,”  health  benefit  plan.  Also  in¬ 
cluded  is  a  discussion  of  how  health  plan  benefits  are 
designed  to  meet  certain  requirements,  such  as  the 
need  to  cover  certain  population  groups  (e.g.,  the  low 
income)  or  to  conform  to  certain  cost  constraints.  In 
addition,  the  paper  presents  and  discusses  several 
health  benefit  plan  options. 

The  focus  of  this  paper  is  on  fee-for-service  plan 
benefits,  which  is  the  most  prevalent  type  of  coverage 
in  this  country,  as  opposed  to  the  benefit  structure  of 
health  maintenance  organizations.  In  addition,  the  dis¬ 
cussion  focuses  only  on  health  benefits  for  the 
nonelderly  (under  age  65)  population. 

The  specification  of  the  five  health  benefit  plan  op¬ 
tions  was  determined  in  discussions  with  you.  We 
agreed  that  we  would  use  three  plans  already  devel¬ 
oped  by  the  Congressional  Research  Service  (CRS)  as 
illustrative  plans  for  our  project  on  health  insurance 
for  the  uninsured:  a  “typical”  private  employer-based 
plan,  a  “tailored”  plan  designed  for  the  low-income, 
and  a  “catastrophic”  plan  for  medical  expenses  that 
are  large  compared  to  family  income.  In  addition,  you 
requested  that  we  develop  (1)  a  typical  plan  that  in¬ 
cludes  preventive  services  and  (2)  a  reduced  typical 
plan  which  includes  greater  enrollee  cost  sharing  and 
excludes  mental  health  and  dental  services,  but  in¬ 
cludes  preventive  services.  The  relatively  lengthy  dis¬ 
cussion  of  preventive  services  responds  to  your 
request  for  information  on  these  frequently  uncovered 
services. 


*  Report  prepared  by  Janet  Lundy,  Specialist  in  Social  Legislation,  Educa¬ 
tion  and  Public  Welfare  Division,  Congressional  Research  Service,  October 
24,  1989. 


WHAT  ARE  THE  BENEFIT  DESIGN 
FEATURES  OF  FEE-FOR-SERVICE 
HEALTH  PLANS? 

The  design  of  a  health  plan’s  benefits  includes  sev¬ 
eral  features  that  define  the  benefits  and  help  to  de¬ 
termine  what  the  benefits  will  cost.  These  benefit 
features  include  (1)  covered  services,  (2)  limits  on 
allowable  charges,  (3)  limits  on  services  covered  or 
total  payments,  (4)  enrollee  cost  sharing  and  cata¬ 
strophic  protection,  and  (5)  cost  containment  features. 
Only  the  first  feature,  covered  services,  pertains  to 
the  types  of  health  care  services  covered  by  a  plan; 
the  other  features  define  how  the  costs  of  health  care 
services  are  divided  between  the  plan  and  the  plan 
enrollees. 


Covered  and  Excluded  Health 
Care  Services 

The  major  types  of  health  care  services  that  health 
plans  cover  include  hospital  services  (inpatient  and 
outpatient),  surgical  services  (inpatient  and  outpa¬ 
tient),  physician  services,  X-ray  and  laboratory  tests, 
emergency  care,  prescription  drugs,  and  mental  health 
care,  including  substance  abuse  (inpatient  and  outpa¬ 
tient).  Most  employer  health  plans  cover  these  bene¬ 
fits.  What  varies  more  from  plan  to  plan  than  the 
types  of  services  covered  are  the  reimbursement 
levels  for  each  service  and  the  plan’s  cost  containment 
features. 

Other  services  sometimes  covered  in  health  plans 
include  dental  care,  vision  care,  well-baby  and  child 
care,  preventive  care  including  routine  physical  ex¬ 
aminations,  home  health  services,  and  care  in  an  ex¬ 
tended  care  facility. 

Any  costs  enrollees  incur  for  services  not  covered 
by  a  health  plan  (“excluded”  services)  are  neither 
paid  for  by  the  plan  nor  applied  toward  the  plan’s  de¬ 
ductible  requirements  or  catastrophic  limits  (described 
below).  Examples  of  services  and  expenses  that  are 


57 


not  covered  under  many  health  insurance  plans  are 
cosmetic  surgery;  infertility  services;  services  not 
deemed  “medically  necessary”  such  as  those  done  for 
educational,  research,  or  vocational  training  purposes; 
experimental  treatments;  tests  or  treatments  not 
needed  for  a  particular  condition;  and  services  that  do 
not  meet  generally  accepted  standards  of  medical 
practice.  Plans  may  also  specify  the  type  of  providers 
to  whom  payment  can  be  made  for  covered  services 
and  may  exclude  treatment  by  others.  For  example,  a 
plan  may  pay  for  mental  health  services  only  if  pro¬ 
vided  by  a  psychiatrist  or  psychologist. 


Limits  on  Allowable  Charges 

Most  health  plans  use  some  method  for  determining 
the  extent  to  which  a  medical  expense  is  eligible  for 
payment.  These  methods  are  designed  to  exert  some 
control  over  plan  costs  by  setting  limits  on  the 
amount  of  a  health  care  provider’s  charges  or  costs 
that  will  be  reimbursed.  For  example,  in  general,  inpa¬ 
tient  hospital  bills  are  paid  by  Medicare  under  a  pro¬ 
spective  payment  system,  by  commercial  insurers  as  a 
percentage  of  the  hospital’s  average  charge  for  a 
semiprivate  hospital  room,  or  by  Blue  Cross  and  Blue 
Shield  according  to  contract  limits  negotiated  by  the 
hospital  and  the  Blue  plan. 

A  plan  may  pay  physicians  according  to  a  method 
known  as  “reasonable  and  customary”  (R&C).  Under 
R&C,  payment  is  made  according  to  the  physician’s 
actual  charge  for  a  particular  service,  limited  by  a 
maximum  determined  as  a  percentage  of  the  average 
charge  for  that  service  by  physicians  in  the  same  geo¬ 
graphic  area.  Plans  may  also  pay  according  to  a  fee 
schedule,  where  the  plan  establishes  maximum  pay¬ 
ment  amounts  in  each  geographic  area  for  each  serv¬ 
ice.  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  plans  generally  limit 
payment  to  physicians  by  negotiating  contracts  under 
which  the  physician  agrees  to  accept  the  Blue  plan’s 
payment  as  full  payment  for  covered  services. 

Limits  on  Services  Covered  or 
Total  Payments 

Health  plans  frequently  set  limits  on  the  units  of 
service  (e.g.,  visits  or  days  of  care)  covered  by  the 
plan,  or  on  the  maximum  dollar  amount  paid  by  the 
plan  per  service,  per  year,  or  over  the  insured  per¬ 
son’s  lifetime.  For  example,  a  plan’s  mental  health 
coverage  may  limit  payment  for  inpatient  mental 
health  care  to  30  days  per  year  and  limit  outpatient 
mental  health  care  to  a  maximum  number  of  visits  per 


year  (perhaps  50),  with  an  annual  maximum  payment 
of  $1,000  per  year. 

Enrollee  Cost  Sharing  and 
Catastrophic  Protection 

In  recent  years,  health  plans  have  extended  their 
use  of  enrollee  cost  sharing,  including  deductibles  and 
coinsurance,  in  an  attempt  to  reduce  plan  costs.  A  de¬ 
ductible  is  a  specific  dollar  amount,  commonly  $100  to 
$200,  that  must  be  paid  by  the  insured  before  the 
health  plan  will  begin  paying  benefits.  Typically,  em¬ 
ployer  plans  require  the  insured  to  pay  a  yearly  over¬ 
all  plan  deductible  (also  called  a  “major  medical” 
deductible)  prior  to  plan  payment  for  covered  serv¬ 
ices.  Coinsurance  is  a  specified  percentage  of  each  bill 
for  a  covered  medical  services  that  the  insured  must 
pay,  commonly  20  percent.  The  coinsurance  is  ap¬ 
plied  to  the  remaining  covered  expenses  after  any  de¬ 
ductible  has  been  met  by  the  insured. 

Many  plans  include  as  a  benefit  a  yearly  limit  (also 
known  as  a  catastrophic,  out-of-pocket,  or  stop-loss 
limit)  on  the  amount  of  cost  sharing  (coinsurance  and 
sometimes  deductibles)  that  the  insured  must  pay  from 
their  own  pockets.  After  that  limit  (commonly  $1,000 
to  $3,000)  is  reached,  the  plan  pays  100  percent  of  any 
additional  expenses  for  services  covered  by  the  plan. 

Arguments  exist  both  for  and  against  the  use  of  en¬ 
rollee  cost  sharing.  Clearly,  cost  sharing  reduces 
health  plan  costs  because  the  health  plan  pays  a 
smaller  proportion  of  the  cost  of  covered  health  care 
services.  Proponents  for  cost  sharing  maintain  that  re¬ 
quiring  enrollees  to  contribute  to  the  payment  of  their 
medical  expenses  makes  them  more  sensitive  to  their 
utilization  of  medical  care,  potentially  reducing  utili¬ 
zation  and,  thus,  health  plan  costs. 

Opponents  of  the  use  of  enrollee  cost  sharing  argue 
that  it  does  not  reduce  utilization  since  it  is  physi¬ 
cians,  not  the  patients  paying  the  cost-sharing 
amounts,  who  make  most  decisions  about  the  use  of 
health  care  services.  In  addition,  it  is  argued  that  any 
reductions  in  utilization  because  of  cost-sharing  re¬ 
quirements  are  not  necessarily  desirable,  since  people 
may  be  discouraged  from  seeking  needed  medical 
care. 

Studies  such  as  the  Rand  Health  Insurance  Experi¬ 
ment  (HIE)  have  found  that  enrollee  cost  sharing  can 
lead  to  lower  utilization  and  lower  health  plan  costs. 
The  HIE  found  that  per  capita  expenses  for  enrollees 
in  a  plan  with  a  95  percent  coinsurance  rate  (i.e.,  the 
percentage  paid  by  the  insured)  for  outpatient  services 


58 


were  28  percent  lower  than  expenses  for  those  in  a 
plan  with  no  enrollee  cost-sharing  requirements.1 

Enrollee  cost  sharing  is  sometimes  defmed  to  also 
include  the  enrollee’s  share  of  the  premium  payment. 
For  typical  large  and  medium  private  sector  employer 
plans,  the  employer  generally  pays  the  full  premium 
for  employee-only  coverage,  but  requires  the  enrollee 
to  pay  about  25  percent  of  the  premium  for  family 
coverage. 


Cost  Containment  Features 

In  addition  to  enrollee  cost-sharing  requirements, 
other  features  are  included  in  health  plans  to  attempt 
to  control  plan  costs.  These  include  alternative  financ¬ 
ing  arrangements  such  as  self  insurance;  premium  cost 
sharing  between  plan  sponsor  and  enrollee;  financial 
incentives  to  use  services  less  costly  than  hospital 
care,  such  as  home  health  care,  hospice  service, 
urgent  care  centers,  etc.;  managed  care  techniques, 
such  as  hospital  utilization  review  and  second  surgical 
opinion  requirements,  and  health  promotion  programs 
such  as  smoking  cessation,  substance  abuse,  weight  re¬ 
duction,  and  stress  management.  Another  technique 
for  controlling  plan  costs  is  to  use  preexisting  condi¬ 
tion  clauses,  which  temporarily  or  permanently  ex¬ 
clude  from  coverage  an  enrollee’s  medical  condition 
that  existed  prior  to  coverage  by  the  health  plan. 


WHO  DOES  NOT  HAVE  HEALTH 
CARE  COVERAGE? 

An  estimated  36.8  million  nonaged  Americans  (17.5 
percent  of  persons  under  age  65)  lack  health  insurance 
coverage.  Persons  who  do  not  privately  obtain  health 
insurance,  either  through  their  jobs  or  by  purchasing 
insurance,  sometimes  receive  coverage  from  Govern¬ 
ment  programs  such  as  Medicaid.  However,  coverage 
from  Government  programs  is  contingent  on  meeting 
certain  program  eligibility  requirements.  Those  who 
do  not  have  private  coverage  and  either  do  not  meet 
the  eligibility  requirements  of  Government  programs 
or  choose  not  to  participate  in  them  are  the  36.8  mil¬ 
lion  (17.5  percent)  who  are  uninsured.2  The  charac¬ 
teristics  of  the  uninsured  are  described  below. 


1  Willard  G.  Manning,  et  al.,  “Health  Insurance  and  the  Demand  for  Medi¬ 
cal  Care:  Evidence  from  a  Randomized  Experiment,”  American  Economic 

Review  (June  1987):  251-277.  . 

2  The  statistics  on  the  uninsured  are  based  on  a  Congressional  Research 
Service  analysis  of  the  March  1987  Current  Population  Survey  (CPS),  a 
household  survey  conducted  by  the  Census  Bureau.  The  March  1987  CPS 
collected  information  on  health  insurance  coverage  for  1986.  A  more  detailed 
description  of  these  statistics  can  be  found  in:  U.S.  Congress,  House  Commit¬ 
tees  on  Education  and  Labor,  Energy  and  Commerce,  and  Senate  Special 
Committee  on  Aging,  Cost  and  Effects  of  Extending  Health  Insurance  Cover¬ 
age .  100th  Cong.,  2d  Sess.,  October  1988. 


Age 

The  uninsured  are  young:  32  percent  are  under  age 
18;  22  percent  are  age  18-24;  and  19  percent  are  age 
25-34. 


Employment 

More  than  half  (52  percent)  of  the  uninsured  are 
employed;  most  of  the  working  uninsured  (59  percent) 
are  in  small  firms  of  less  than  100.  Workers  whose 
jobs  did  not  provide  health  insurance  tended  to  be 
part-time  rather  than  full-time  workers,  young  rather 
than  older  workers,  lower-paid  rather  than  higher- 
paid  workers,  in  small  firms  rather  than  in  large  firms. 
These  workers  also  tended  to  be  employed  in  the 
service-producing  and  retail  sectors  of  the  economy. 
Between  two-thirds  and  four-fifths  of  the  uninsured 
live  in  families  where  someone  is  employed. 


Income 

Over  half  (61  percent)  of  the  uninsured  are  low 
income  (family  income  under  $20,000).  About  30  per¬ 
cent  of  uninsured  persons  live  in  families  with  in¬ 
comes  below  the  Federal  poverty  threshold  for  their 
family  size. 


ISSUES  IN  DESIGNING  A  HEALTH 
BENEFITS  PLAN 

General 

A  health  plan’s  benefits  are  designed  to  pay  either 
all  or  a  portion  of  the  health  care  expenses  of  the 
population  covered  by  the  health  plan.  This  is  pre¬ 
sumably  the  purpose  of  insurance — to  ensure  that  the 
health  care  services  used  by  the  covered  population 
are  paid  for,  that  unexpected  health  care  expenses  can 
be  paid  for,  and  that  financial  means  do  not  become  a 
barrier  to  seeking  or  receiving  health  care  services. 

Several  questions  need  to  be  asked  when  designing 
a  health  benefits  plan.  These  include: 

— What  benefits  will  be  included?  What  is  a  “basic” 
health  benefits  plan?  How  should  the  population 
to  be  covered  help  determine  a  plan’s  benefits? 

— What  are  some  health  benefit  plan  options? 

— W’hat  is  the  cost  of  the  plan? 


59 


28-861  -  90  -  3  :  QL  3 


— What  is  the  framework  for  the  health  plan 
benefits? 

These  issues  will  be  discussed  below. 


What  Benefits  Will  Be  Included? 

In  general,  the  goal  of  a  health  benefits  plan  is  to 
provide  payment  for  health  care  services  needed  or 
used  by  the  covered  population.  Health  care  benefits 
“needed”  by  a  given  population  can  be  defined  either 
in  terms  of  (1)  the  types  of  services  used  by  the  popu¬ 
lation  to  be  covered  by  the  health  plan  (for  example, 
hospital  services,  outpatient  prescription  drug  serv¬ 
ices,  etc.),  or  (2)  the  financial  means  of  the  covered 
population  to  pay  for  health  services.  In  designing  a 
health  benefits  plan,  one  may  wish  to  consider  what  is 
a  “basic”  health  care  benefits  package. 

1.  “Basic”  Health  Care  Benefits — There  is  no  clear 
definition  of  what  comprises  a  “basic”  package  of 
health  care  benefits.  In  insurance  terminology,  most 
health  insurance  plans  have  been  categorized  as  either 
“basic  plus  supplemental  major  medical”  or  “compre¬ 
hensive  major  medical.”  This  distinction  has  become 
more  confusing  than  helpful  over  the  years.  However, 
it  is  useful  to  define  these  terms  since  they  often  arise 
in  the  description  of  health  insurance  plans.  “Basic” 
coverage  originally  meant  coverage  of  certain  ex¬ 
penses  that  were  fully  paid  for  by  the  insurer  without 
any  coinsurance  or  deductible  (also  known  as  “first- 
dollar  coverage”).  The  most  common  type  of  early 
basic  coverage  (in  the  1920’s  and  1930’s)  was  for  hos¬ 
pital  services  and  physician  services  provided  in  a 
hospital  setting. 

“Major  medical”  insurance  was  later  designed  to 
cover  expenses,  such  as  physician  office  visits  and 
prescription  drugs,  that  were  not  covered  as  “basic” 
expenses.  Major  medical  coverage  is  generally  charac¬ 
terized  by  the  enrollee  payment  of  a  deductible  and 
coinsurance,  a  high  ceiling  on  the  total  amount  pay¬ 
able  by  the  plan,  and  a  limit  on  cost-sharing  expendi¬ 
tures  by  enrollees  (also  called  an  out-of-pocket  or 
“catastrophic  limit”).  Since  basic  and  major  medical 
insurance  plans  were  usually  combined  as  one  pack¬ 
age,  although  often  offered  by  two  different  insurers, 
the  package  became  known  as  “basic  plus  supplemen¬ 
tal  major  medical.” 

“Comprehensive  major  medical”  insurance  origi¬ 
nally  subjected  all  covered  expenses,  including  hos¬ 
pital-related  expenses,  to  a  common  deductible  and 
coinsurance.  A  typical  design  would  be  for  the  en¬ 
rollee  to  pay  20  percent  of  all  covered  expenses  after 
paying  a  $100  deductible. 


Insurance  plans  have  changed  over  time  so  that 
deductibles  and  coinsurance  have  been  added  to  the 
basic  coverage  of  many  plans,  and  hospital  and  sur¬ 
gery  are  now  covered  in  full  by  many  comprehensive 
plans.  Therefore,  while  the  terms  are  still  used,  there 
is  frequently  little  distinction  between  them.  It  is  easi¬ 
est  to  focus  on  individual  plan  features  to  understand 
the  nature  of  a  plan’s  coverage.  This  document  uses 
the  terms  “overall  plan  deductible”  and  “overall  plan 
coinsurance”  to  refer  to  the  major  medical  features  of 
health  plans. 

In  non-insurance  parlance,  “basic”  health  care  serv¬ 
ices,  and  any  health  plan  benefits  that  pay  for  such 
services,  usually  refer  to  some  determination  of  the 
minimum  health  services  that  should  be  generally  and 
uniformly  available  in  order  to  assure  adequate  health 
status  and  protection  of  the  population  from  disease, 
or  to  meet  some  other  criteria  or  standard.  However, 
there  is  little  agreement  on  what  constitutes  a  “basic” 
health  benefits  plan. 

Since  a  single  definition  of  a  “basic”  benefits  pack¬ 
age  does  not  exist,  it  may  be  helpful  to  use  as  a  stand¬ 
ard  a  common  or  typical  health  benefits  package. 
Most  Americans  with  health  plan  coverage  (approxi¬ 
mately  75  percent)  are  covered  by  employment-based 
health  plans.  While  these  plans  vary  considerably,  it  is 
possible  to  develop  a  hypothetical  or  composite  plan 
that  is  typical  of  the  most  prevalent  benefit  provisions 
found  in  health  plans  offered  by  medium  and  large 
firms.  The  following  is  a  typical  1988  private  sector 
employment-based  plan:  3 

The  typical  private  employment-based  plan  de¬ 
scribed  above  provides  coverage  for  most  health  care 
services  (hospital,  surgical,  physician,  X-ray  and  lab¬ 
oratory,  emergency,  prescription  drugs,  mental  health, 
and  dental).  The  $100/$300  overall  deductible  (the 
amount  the  enrollee  must  pay  out-of-pocket  before 
the  plan  begins  paying  benefits)  applies  to  all  services 
except  hospital  and  emergency.  The  enrollee  out-of- 
pocket  costs  applied  to  the  annual  $l,000/$2,000 
out-of-pocket  (or,  “catastrophic”)  limit  include  coin¬ 
surance  amounts,  but  not  the  overall  deductible. 
There  is  no  limit  on  the  maximum  amount  the  plan 
will  pay  over  the  enrollee’s  lifetime.  The  coinsurance 
percentages  are  percents  of  reasonable  and  customary 
limits  for  covered  services  paid  by  the  plan,  except 
for  the  hospital  room  and  board  coinsurance,  which  is 


3  This  “typical”  employment-related  health  plan  was  developed  by  the 
Congressional  Research  Service  and  the  Hay/Huggins  Company  (while 
under  contract  with  CRS),  based  on  data  in  the  1988  Hay/Huggins  Benefit 
Report,  a  sample  of  nearly  900  medium  to  large  employers  included  in  the 
annual  Hay/Huggins  Benefits  Survey.  This  data  base  covers  approximately 
25  million  people  who  receive  health  insurance  benefits  through  these  em¬ 
ployers.  See  U.S.  Congress,  House  Committee  on  Post  Office  and  Civil  Serv¬ 
ice,  The  Federal  Employees  Health  Benefits  Program:  Possible  Strategies  for 
Reform,  101st  Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  May  24,  1989,  138-140. 


60 


paid  as  a  percentage  of  the  hospital’s  semiprivate 
room  rate.  Thus,  the  maximum  amount  that  the  en- 
rollee  would  pay  for  services  covered  by  this  plan 
would  be  $1,100  for  an  individual  plan  and  $2,300  for 
a  family  plan,  assuming  that  provider  charges  were 
not  in  excess  of  the  plan’s  reasonable  and  customary 
limits. 


Typical  Private  Sector  Employment-Based 
Health  Plan,  1988 


Benefit 

Plan  provision 

Overall  deductible  (per  person/family;  for  all 

$100/$300 

benefits  except  hospital  and  emergency 

services). 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit  (per  person/ 

$1,000/$2,000 

family;  counts  only  nonmental  health  coinsur- 

ance  toward  limit). 

Lifetime  maximum . 

None 

Hospital  services: 

Room  and  board,  365-day  per  stay  maximum.. 

100% 

Other  hospital  expenses . 

100% 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended  or  home 

Yes 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

80% 

Physician  services . 

80% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

80% 

Prescription  drugs . 

80% 

Emergency/accidental  injury . 

100% 

Mental  health  care: 

Inpatient  care  (annual  30-day  maximum;  sub- 

80% 

ject  to  overall  deductible). 

Outpatient  care  (annual  50-visit  maximum; 

50% 

subject  to  overall  deductible). 

Dental  care: 

Rniitinfi  . 

100% 

Rasic  . 

80% 

Restorative/reconstructive . 

50% 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

None 

Well-baby  and  well-child  care . 

None 

2.  Preventive  Health  Care  Services — The  typical  pri¬ 
vate  employment-based  plan  does  not  provide  cover¬ 
age  for  routine,  or  “preventive”  health  care  services 
not  related  to  an  illness.  These  would  include  periodic 
check-ups  and  health  screenings  (for  example,  pap 
smears,  mammography,  stool  exams  for  occult  blood); 
immunizations  (e.g.,  tetanus,  influenza,  polio,  DPT); 
and  counseling  programs  (e.g.,  smoking,  alcohol, 


weight,  exercise).  However,  as  presented  in  a  1988 
report  entitled  Implementing  Preventive  Services,  some 
believe  the  “reimbursers  may  be  shortsighted  in  fail¬ 
ing  to  provide  financial  incentives  for  prevention.  If 
keeping  people  healthy  is  cheaper  than  remedying 
their  illness,  then  prevention  is  not  only  a  good  in¬ 
vestment  for  society  as  a  whole  in  terms  of  the  return 
of  health  benefits  for  dollars  expended  but  may  be 
profitable  in  the  narrow  sense  for  the  reimburser  as 
well,  by  reducing  total  dollar  outlays.”  4 

The  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task  Force  released 
a  report  in  May  1989  (Guide  to  Clinical  Preventive 
Services)  that  provides  recommendations  on  more  than 
100  interventions  for  60  potentially  preventable  dis¬ 
eases  and  conditions,  designed  to  help  health  care 
providers  select  the  most  appropriate  and  effective 
preventive  interventions  for  patients.5  The  report  also 
includes  information  on  the  burden  of  suffering  for 
the  preventable  conditions  (e.g.,  morbidity,  mortality, 
cost  of  treatment,  etc.)  and  the  proven  effectiveness  of 
the  intervention,  based  on  the  quality  of  the  published 
research  evidence.  The  report  provides  examples  of 
the  benefits  of  including  prevention  in  medical  prac¬ 
tice,  including: 

— the  decline  of  infectious  diseases  such  as  polio¬ 
myelitis,  rubella,  diphtheria,  and  pertussis  due  to 
childhood  immunization; 

— reductions  in  morbidity  and  mortality  due  to 
early  detection  of  diseases  such  as  stroke 
(through  screening  for  hypertension),  cervical 
cancer  (through  pap  tests),  and  childhood  meta¬ 
bolic  disorders  (through  routine  newborn  screen¬ 
ing  and  treatment); 

— effects  on  the  leading  causes  of  death  through 
counseling  on  personal  health  behaviors  such 
as  smoking,  physical  inactivity,  diet,  sexual 
practices. 

The  report  cited  lack  of  reimbursement  for  preventive 
services  as  one  reason  why  physicians  often  fail  to 
provide  recommended  clinical  preventive  services. 

However,  the  effects  of  preventive  services  on 
health  status  and  on  cost  are  not  entirely  clear.  Cer¬ 
tain  preventive  services,  such  as  immunizations,  are 
not  without  risk  (and  resulting  cost).  Other  preventive 
services,  such  as  tests  for  hypertension,  will  not  in 
themselves  result  in  improved  health  status,  and 
follow-up  therapy,  such  as  drug  therapy  for  high 
blood  pressure,  will  not  necessarily  reduce  medical 


4  Robert  G.  Evans,  “Economic  Barriers  to  Preventive  Services:  Clinical 
Obstacle  or  Fiscal  Defense,”  in  Implementing  Preventive  Services,  ed.  Renaldo 
N.  Battista  and  Robert  S.  Lawrence,  American  Journal  of  Preventive  Medicine 
(New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1988),  114. 

5  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task  Force,  Guide  to  Clinical  Preventive  Services 
(Washington,  D.C.):  1989. 


61 


expenditures.  As  stated  in  Is  Prevention  Better  Than 
Cure?,  “The  evidence  also  shows  that,  even  after 
allowing  for  savings  in  treatment,  prevention  usually 
adds  to  medical  expenditures,  contrary  to  the  popular 
view  that  it  reduces  them.  Evaluations  of  a  number  of 
significant  preventive  measures — several  of  which 
have  been  reviewed  in  this  study — support  this  con¬ 
clusion.  ...  In  some  cases  prevention  may  save 
money  in  other,  nonmedical,  sectors  of  the  economy. 
Studies  of  the  measles  vaccine  and  of  lead  screening 
for  young  children  both  indicate  that  these  proce¬ 
dures  reduce  expenditures  for  institutionalization  and 
special  education  by  preventing  retardation  among 
children.  It  is  not  possible,  however,  to  conclude  that 
there  are  usually  savings  elsewhere  because  most  anal¬ 
yses  have  not  looked  beyond  medical  expendi¬ 
tures.  .  .  .  What  really  matters  is  not  whether  a 
preventive  measure  adds  to  costs  in  a  particular 
sector,  or  reduces  them,  but  the  total  costs  it  involves, 
wherever  they  occur.  These  results  show  that  preven¬ 
tion  cannot  be  assumed  to  be  a  better  choice  than 
cure  in  every  case.  Individual  measures  must  be  eval¬ 
uated  on  their  merits.”  6 

Prenatal  care  is  considered  another  type  of  preven¬ 
tive  service.  As  discussed  in  a  1987  report  by  the 
Office  of  Technology  Assessment  (OTA),  Health 
Children:  Investing  in  the  Future,  “prenatal  care  en¬ 
compasses  a  wide  range  of  preventive,  diagnostic,  and 
therapeutic  service  delivered  throughout  the  course  of 
pregnancy,  with  the  goal  of  both  a  healthy  baby  and 
a  healthy  mother.  .  .  .  Because  prenatal  care  includes 
not  only  preventive  interventions  such  as  screening 
and  counseling  but  also  treatment  when  needed,  it  is 
bound  to  be  effective  in  altering  the  health  of  some 
mothers  and  infants.”  7 

Although  OTA  found  shortcomings  in  almost  all 
the  studies  of  prenatal  care  reviewed,  it  concluded 
that  “the  weight  of  the  evidence  from  more  than  55 
studies  of  the  effectiveness  of  earlier,  more  frequent, 
or  enriched  prenatal  care  services  supports  the  con¬ 
tention  that  two  key  birth  outcomes — low  birthweight 
and  neonatal  mortality — can  be  improved  with  earlier 
and  more  comprehensive  prenatal  care,  especially  in 
high-risk  groups  such  as  adolescents  and  poor 
women.  .  .  .  OTA  estimated  that  for  every  low 
birthweight  birth  averted  by  earlier  or  more  frequent 
prenatal  care,  the  U.S.  health  care  system  saves  be¬ 
tween  $14, (XX)  and  $30,000  in  newborn  hospitalization, 
rehospitalization  in  the  first  year,  and  long-term 
health  care  costs  associated  with  low  birthweight.”  8 * 


6  Louise  B.  Russell,  Is  Prevention  Better  Than  Cure?  (Washington,  D.C.: 
The  Brookings  Institution,  1986),  110-111. 

7  Office  of  Technology  Assessment.  Healthy  Children:  Investing  in  the 
Future  (Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  1987),  8. 

8  Healthy  Children,  9. 


Another  study,  The  Financing  of  Maternity  Care  in 
the  United  States,  conducted  by  the  Alan  Guttmacher 
Institute,  found  that  in  1980,  8  percent  of  mothers 
received  insufficient  prenatal  care  and  26  percent 
received  an  intermediate  level  of  care;  66  percent  ob¬ 
tained  sufficient  care.9  For  1980,  the  sources  of  pay¬ 
ment  for  prenatal  care  were  found  to  be  as  follows: 
private  insurance  (41  percent),  the  mother  and/or  her 
family  (35  percent),  Medicaid  (8  percent),  other  (16 
percent).  For  women  whose  incomes  were  150-199 
percent  of  poverty,  70  percent  paid  for  their  prenatal 
care  themselves. 1 0 

Private  insurance  coverage  of  prenatal  care  varies 
according  to  the  size  of  the  employer  (for  employer- 
based  coverage)  and  State  law  and  regulations.  The 
Pregnancy  Discrimination  Act  of  1978  (P.L.  95-555) 
requires  employers  of  15  or  more  employees,  and  self- 
insured  employers,  who  offer  health  insurance  to 
cover  pregnancy  care  in  the  same  manner  as  other 
medical  care.  Thus,  coverage  of  prenatal  care  is  im¬ 
plicit  in  most  plans  of  employers  with  15  or  more 
employees.  However,  small  employers,  nonspouse  de¬ 
pendents,  and  those  with  privately  obtained  insurance 
coverage  not  related  to  the  workplace  are  not  cov¬ 
ered  by  the  Pregnancy  Discrimination  requirement. 
Such  plans  may  exclude  or  limit  their  benefits  for  pre¬ 
natal  care;  waiting  periods,  pre-existing  condition 
clauses,  and  exclusion  of  coverage  for  nonspouse  de¬ 
pendents  (e.g.,  a  teenage  daughter)  may  also  affect 
coverage  of  prenatal  care. 1 1 

3.  EnroUees’  Financial  Means — Implicit  in  determin¬ 
ing  a  standard  for  “basic”  health  care  benefits  is  an 
understanding  of  financial  means  of  the  population  to 
be  covered  by  the  health  plan.  The  financial  means  of 
the  population  is  important  in  determining  whether 
the  health  plan  covers  a  “sufficient”  proportion  (how¬ 
ever  defined)  of  the  medical  expenses  of  the  enrollees 
and  thus  assures  that  their  income  is  not  a  barrier  to 
their  receiving  and  paying  for  medical  services. 

If  a  health  plan’s  benefits  cover  the  full  cost  of  the 
medical  bills  incurred  by  enrollees  and  no  premium 
contribution  is  required  of  enrollees,  then  the  income 
of  the  enrollee  is  irrelevant  in  determining  whether 
the  health  plan  makes  health  care  services  affordable 
for  the  enrollee.  But  the  benefits  of  all  current  health 
plans,  both  public  and  private,  leave  the  enrollee  with 
certain  out-of-pocket  costs.  These  out-of-pocket  costs 
result  from  uncovered  services,  services  in  excess  of 
the  plan’s  limits  on  number  of  days  or  visits,  cost¬ 
sharing  amounts  such  as  deductibles  and  coinsurance, 


9  The  Alan  Guttmacher  Institute,  The  Financing  of  Maternity  Care  in  the 
United  States  (New  York,  N.Y.:  December  1987),  27. 

10  Financing  Maternity  Care,  105. 

1 1  Financing  Maternity  Care,  263. 


62 


the  portion  of  providers’  charges  in  excess  of  the 
plan’s  payment  limits  (also  known  as  “balance  bill¬ 
ing”),  and  premium  amounts  required  of  enrollees. 

Theoretically,  the  goal  of  most  insurance  is  to  pro¬ 
vide  payment  for  the  most  unexpected  and  costly  of 
events.  This  goal  would  lead  one  to,  at  the  very  least, 
design  benefits  to  cover  catastrophic  health  care  ex¬ 
penses.  However,  a  medical  expense  that  is  financially 
catastrophic  to  a  low  income  individual  or  family  may 
be  a  routine,  budgetable  amount  for  a  wealthy  person 
or  family.  This  dilemma  highlights  the  issue  of  how  to 
provide  health  plan  coverage  of  large  medical  bills. 

“Catastrophic”  health  plan  benefits  are  those  which 
provide  protection  against  the  high  cost  of  treating 
severe  or  lengthy  illness  or  disabilities.  Thus,  it  is  not 
the  severity  of  the  illness  but  its  expense  that  deter¬ 
mines  whether  it  is  catastrophic  in  a  financial  sense. 
There  is  no  commonly  accepted  definition  of  what 
constitutes  a  catastrophic  medical  expense,  except  that 
the  expense  must  be  the  liability  of  the  individual  or 
family  and  not  reimbursable  by  some  health  plan.  This 
lack  of  definition  arises  in  part  because  its  determina¬ 
tion  depends  on  the  financial  resources  of  the  individ¬ 
ual  or  family  to  pay  for  the  expense.  Two  methods 
are  commonly  used  to  define  catastrophic  expenses. 

The  first  method  uses  a  fixed-dollar  threshold  (for 
example,  $2,000)  to  determine  whether  out-of-pocket 
(uninsured)  expenses  are  catastrophic.  The  second 
method  measures  the  out-of-pocket  expense  relative  to 
the  income  of  the  individual  or  family  (for  example, 
10  or  15  percent  of  income).  The  income-related 
measure,  while  tailoring  benefits  to  the  financial  cir¬ 
cumstances  of  the  covered  population,  is  administra¬ 
tively  more  complex.  The  threshold  level  and  the 
method  chosen  to  determine  whether  the  limit  has 
been  reached  can  lead  to  very  different  results  in 
terms  of  the  numbers  and  characteristics  of  those  at 
risk  for  catastrophic  expenses. 

Thus,  whether  a  person’s  medical  expenses  are  “cat¬ 
astrophic”  depends  on  the  extent  of  their  health  plan 
coverage  (if  any)  and  their  ability  to  pay.  The  features 
of  a  health  plan  that  help  determine  whether  it  pro¬ 
vides  catastrophic  coverage  include  (a)  the  extent  of 
its  benefits,  particularly  for  the  more  expensive  serv¬ 
ices  such  as  inpatient  hospital  care  (e.g.,  coverage  for 
365  days  of  inpatient  hospital  care  rather  than  30 
days),  and  (b)  any  out-of-pocket  (e.g.,  “catastrophic”) 
limit  on  enrollee  cost-sharing  amounts,  which  is  usu¬ 
ally  a  fixed-dollar  amount  above  which  the  plan  pays 
100  percent  of  the  allowable  charges  for  covered 
services.  Since  most  health  plans,  whether  private  or 
public,  pay  for  acute  care  services  only,  the  cata¬ 
strophic  features  of  current  health  plans  generally  do 


not  cover  catastrophic  expenses  associated  with  long¬ 
term  care  services. 

Most  private  employment-based  health  plans  limit 
out-of-pocket  liability  through  the  first  method,  a 
fixed-dollar  limit,  typically  $1,000  per  person  or 
$2,000  per  family  in  medium  to  large  employer  health 
plans.  According  to  the  Employee  Benefit  Research 
Institute  (EBRI),  only  4  percent  of  workers  in 
medium  to  large  employer  plans  have  out-of-pocket 
limits  based  on  a  measure  of  income,  their  earnings.12 

4.  Population  To  Be  Covered — Determining  the 
characteristics  of  the  population  to  be  covered  is  basic 
to  the  design  of  a  health  benefits  plan.  For  example,  is 
it  intended  that  the  health  benefits  cover  all  of  the  un¬ 
insured  or  a  target  group  such  as  uninsured  children, 
uninsured  workers  and  families,  low-income  mothers 
and  children,  or  those  who  are  medically  high  risk  be¬ 
cause  of  a  preexisting  illness?  Is  the  plan  to  be  afford¬ 
able  to  those  of  varying  income  levels? 

Once  the  covered  population  and  its  characteristics 
(e.g.,  age,  income)  are  determined,  a  health  plan  can 
be  designed  so  that  it  covers  the  types  of  services 
suited  to  the  population  and  with  cost-sharing 
amounts  (and  at  a  premium,  if  required)  that  the 
population  can  afford.  If  the  target  population  is  chil¬ 
dren,  then  coverage  of  preventive  services  such  as 
prenatal  and  well-baby/well-child  care  could  be  in¬ 
cluded.  If  the  plan  is  to  be  affordable  to  those  of  all 
incomes  or  if  the  low-income  are  targeted  for  cover¬ 
age,  then  large  cost-sharing  amounts  (deductibles  and 
coinsurance)  may  not  be  appropriate. 

The  issue  of  affordability  is  complicated  by  the  fact 
that  if  the  enrollee  is  required  to  pay  all  or  a  portion 
of  the  premium,  one  way  of  reducing  the  premium 
cost  so  it  is  more  affordable  for  low-income  enrollees 
is  to  raise  the  plan’s  cost-sharing  requirements.  How¬ 
ever,  this  would  mean  that  although  all  enrollees  (in¬ 
cluding  the  low  income)  would  pay  lower  premiums, 
enrollees  who  use  medical  care  services  would  pay  a 
larger  share  of  their  medical  bills  because  of  the 
larger  cost-sharing  requirements,  which  could  be  a 
burden  to  the  low-income  with  medical  bills. 

5.  Other  Health  Benefits  Issues — Other  questions 
may  be  raised  about  the  coverage  included  in  a  health 
benefit  plan.  Will  the  plan  cover  benefits  for  pre-exist¬ 
ing  conditions?  What  type  of  provider  may  provide 
the  services  and  be  paid  or  reimbursed  by  the  health 
plan?  For  example,  will  the  plan  pay  for  services  pro¬ 
vided  by  nonphysician  providers)?  Will  experimental 


1 2  Employee  Benefit  Research  Institute,  Financing  Catastrophic  Health  Care 
Costs  Among  the  Nonelderly  Population,  EBRI  Issue  Brief  No.  71  (Washing¬ 
ton,  D.C.:  October  1987). 


63 


technologies  be  covered  and,  if  so,  under  what 
guidelines? 


Health  Benefit  Plan  Options 

Described  below  are  health  plan  options  that  vary 
in  the  types  of  health  care  services  covered  and  in 
their  cost-sharing  requirements.  These  variations  at¬ 
tempt  to  include  benefits  tailored  to  the  needs  and  fi¬ 
nancial  means  of  different  populations,  as  discussed 
above. 

It  is  assumed  that  all  options  cover  prenatal  care 
and  none  exclude  coverage  for  preexisting  conditions. 
The  percentages  given  are  the  proportion  of  covered 
expenses  paid  by  the  plan. 

1.  Option  1:  The  Typical  Plan — The  term  “typical” 
is  used  here  to  describe  a  plan  whose  benefits  are  typ¬ 
ical  of  plans  sponsored  by  large  and  medium  private 
employers  (as  described  in  more  detail  above).  In 
summary,  such  plan  provides  comprehensive  cover¬ 


Option  1:  The  Typical  Plan 


Benefit 

Plan  provisions 

Overall  deductible  (per  person/family;  applies 

$100/$300 

to  all  benefits  except  hospital  and  emergen¬ 
cy  services). 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit  (per  person/ 

$1 ,000/$2,000 

family;  counts  only  nonmental  health  coinsur¬ 
ance  toward  the  limit). 

Hospital  services  (365-day  per  stay  maximum) . 

100% 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended  or  home 

Yes 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

80% 

Physician  services . 

80% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

80% 

Prescription  drugs . 

80% 

Emergency /accidental  injury . 

100% 

Mental  health  care: 

Inpatient  care  (annual  30-day  maximum;  sub- 

80% 

ject  to  overall  deductible). 

Outpatient  care  (annual  50-visit  maximum; 

50% 

subject  to  overall  deductible). 

Dental  care: 

Routine . 

100% 

Basic . 

80% 

Restorative/reconstructive . 

50% 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

Not  covered 

Well-baby/ well-child  care . 

Not  covered 

age  of  medically  necessary  services  and  a  catastrophic 
limit  on  out-of-pocket  expenses.  It  does  not  cover  pre¬ 
ventive  services  such  as  routine  examinations,  screen¬ 
ing  tests,  or  well-baby/well-child  care.  The  specific 
benefits  are  included  in  the  table  below. 

2.  Option  2:  Typical  Plan  Plus  Preventive  Care — Re¬ 
search  indicates  that  certain  preventive  care  services 
(immunizations,  screening,  and  counseling)  can  pre¬ 
vent  or  mitigate  the  effects  of  disease.  Although  theo¬ 
retically  all  persons  could  benefit  from  health  plan 
coverage  of  preventive  care  services,  presumably  the 
low  income  would  benefit  the  most.  While  those  of 
higher  incomes  may  seek  out  and  receive  preventive 
services  (such  as  immunizations)  whether  or  not  they 
are  covered  by  insurance,  the  low  income  are  more 
likely  to  go  without  such  services  if  they  are  not  cov¬ 
ered.  Therefore,  this  option  includes  all  the  benefits  of 
the  typical  plan,  plus  coverage  of  (a)  routine  physicals 
and  tests,  and  (b)  well-baby/well-child  care,  both  of 
which  are  subject  to  the  overall  plan  deductible  and 
are  paid  for  at  80  percent  of  the  reasonable  and  cus¬ 
tomary  charges. 


Option  2:  Typical  Plan  Plus  Preventive  Care 


Benefit 

Plan  provisions 

Overall  deductible  (per  person/family;  applies 

$100/$300 

to  all  benefits  except  hospital  and  emergen¬ 
cy  services). 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit  (per  person/ 

$1 ,000/$2,000 

family;  counts  only  nonmental  health  coinsur¬ 
ance  towards  the  limit). 

Hospital  services  (365-day  per  stay  maximum) . 

100% 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended  or  home 

Yes 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

80% 

Physician  services . 

80% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

80% 

Prescription  drugs . 

80% 

Emergency/accidental  injury . 

100% 

Mental  health  care: 

Inpatient  care  (annual  30-day  maximum;  sub- 

80% 

ject  to  overall  deductible). 

Outpatient  care  (annual  50-visit  maximum; 

50% 

subject  to  overall  deductible). 

Dental  care: 

Routine . 

100% 

Basic . 

80% 

Restorative/reconstructive . 

50% 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

80% 

Well-baby/well-child  care . 

80% 

64 


3.  Option  3:  Reduced  Typical  Plus  Preventive  Care — 

This  benefit  package  includes  coverage  of  the  services 
historically  covered  by  insurance  plans,  including  hos¬ 
pital,  surgical,  physician,  X-rays  and  lab,  prescription 
drugs,  and  emergency/accidental  injury  care.  It  also 
includes  coverage  of  preventive  services  such  as  rou¬ 
tine  physicals  and  tests,  and  well-baby/well-child 
care.  In  order  to  reduce  the  cost  of  the  plan,  Option  3 
(a)  does  not  include  coverage  of  mental  health  care 
and  dental  benefits,  and  (b)  has  higher  enrollee  cost¬ 
sharing  amounts  and  a  higher  annual  out-of-pocket 
limit  than  Option  1  (the  Typical  Plan). 

While  the  total  premium  for  this  plan  would  be 
lower  than  that  of  Option  2  (Typical  Plan  Plus  Pre¬ 
ventive  Care)  because  mental  health  and  dental  bene¬ 
fits  are  not  included  and  the  enrollee  cost  sharing  is 
increased,  the  plan  is  more  costly  to  enrollees  because 
they  are  required  to  pay  a  greater  share  of  their  cov¬ 
ered  medical  expenses.  Thus,  this  plan  would  not  be 
as  appropriate  for  low  income  enrollees. 


Option  3:  Reduced  Typical  Plus  Preventive  Care 


Benefit 

Plan  provisions 

Overall  deductible  (per  person/family;  applies 

$200/$400 

to  all  benefits  except  hospital  and  emergen¬ 
cy  services). 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit  (per  person/ 

$2,000/$4,000 

family;  counts  only  nonmental  health  coinsur¬ 
ance  towards  the  limit). 

Hospital  services  (365-day  per  stay  maximum) . 

80% 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended  or  home 

Yes 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

75% 

Physician  services . 

75% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

75% 

Prescription  drugs . 

75% 

Emergency/accidental  injury . 

100% 

Mental  health  care . 

Not  covered 

ripntal  mtp  . 

Not  covered 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

75% 

Well-baby/well-child  care . 

75% 

4.  Option  4:  Tailored  Plan— This  plan  is  the  same  as 
the  “tailored”  plan  designed  by  the  Congressional  Re¬ 
search  Service  as  an  illustrative  plan  tailored  to  the 
perceived  health  care  needs  of  the  currently  unin¬ 


sured  population.13  The  plan’s  benefits  were  chosen 
in  order  to  meet  two  goals.  First,  the  plan  was  de¬ 
signed  to  be  less  costly.  Second,  it  was  designed  for 
the  uninsured,  who  are  a  relatively  young,  lower- 
income  population.  Thus,  the  plan  places  more  em¬ 
phasis  on  preventive  care  than  Option  1  (the  Typical 
Plan),  and  has  lower  deductibles  and  coinsurance.  To 
meet  these  cost  and  benefit  objectives,  this  plan  was 
designed  with  less  coverage  for  long  hospital  stays 
(14-day  annual  maximum)  and  with  no  annual  out-of- 
pocket  limit.  There  is  no  annual  out-of-pocket  limit 
because  the  enrollee  is  responsible  for  few  cost-shar¬ 
ing  amounts. 


Option  4:  Tailored  Plan 


Benefit 

Plan  provisions 

Overall  deductible  (per  person/family;  applies 

$50/$150 

to  all  benefits  except  emergency  services) 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit . 

None 

Hospital  services  (14-day  per  stay  maximum).... 

100% 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended  or  home 

Not  covered 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

100% 

Physician  services . 

100% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

100% 

Prescription  drugs . 

$2/prescription 

Emergency/accidental  injury . 

100% 

Mental  health  care . 

Not  covered 

Dental  care . 

Not  covered 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

100% 

Well-baby/well-child  care . 

100% 

5.  Option  5:  Catastrophic  Plan — This  plan  is  the 
same  as  the  catastrophic  plan  designed  by  the  Con¬ 
gressional  Research  Service  as  an  illustrative  plan 
designed  to  deal  solely  with  the  circumstance  of  indi¬ 
viduals  whose  medical  expenditures  are  quite  large 
relative  to  their  incomes.14  The  plan  requires  a  de¬ 
ductible  related  to  income  and  family  size  before  ben¬ 
efit  eligibility  would  begin.  The  deductible  would 
equal  25  percent  of  total  income  less  personal  exemp¬ 
tions  (e.g.,  family  size)  for  families  with  total  income 
no  greater  than  $75,000.  For  families  with  total 
income  above  $75,000,  the  deductible  would  be  25 


13  U.S.  Congress,  House  Committees  on  Education  and  Labor,  Energy  and 
Commerce,  and  Senate  Special  Committee  on  Aging,  Cost  and  Effects  of  Ex¬ 
tending  Health  Insurance  Coverage,  100th  Congress,  2d  Sess.,  October  1988, 
63-139. 

14  Extending  Health  Insurance  Coverage,  63-139. 


65 


percent  of  total  income  less  personal  exemptions  for 
the  first  $75,000  of  total  income,  and  35  percent  of 
any  income  above  $75,000.  For  example,  a  family  of 
four  with  total  income  of  $20,000  would  have  a  de¬ 
ductible  of  $3,100  (assuming  personal  exemptions  are 
$1,900  each). 

Under  Option  5,  if  an  enrollee’s  out-of-pocket 
family  health  care  expenditures  exceed  the  income-re¬ 
lated  deductible,  the  enrollee  would  be  required  to 
pay  coinsurance  of  10  percent  on  the  first  $5,000  of 
covered  expenditures  in  excess  of  the  deductible. 
Thus,  maximum  yearly  out-of-pocket  liability  for  cov¬ 
ered  expenses  under  this  option  would  equal  the  de¬ 
ductible  plus  $500. 

Option  5’s  cost  would  be  significantly  less  than  that 
of  the  other  more  comprehensive  plan  options  be¬ 
cause  of  its  uncovered  services  (mental  health,  dental, 
routine  physicals  and  tests,  and  well-baby/well-child 
care)  and  its  large  enrollee  cost-sharing  amounts. 


Option  5:  Catastrophic  Plan 


Benefit 

Plan  provisions 

Overall  deductible  (applies  to  all  benefits) .. 

Related  to  income 
and  family  size 

Annual  out-of-pocket  limit . 

$5,000 

Hospital  services  (365-day  per  stay  maxi- 

90% 

mum). 

Hospital  alternatives  (extended,  home 

90% 

health  care). 

Surgical  services . 

90% 

Physician  services . 

90% 

X-rays  and  laboratory . 

90% 

Prescription  drugs . 

90% 

Emergency/accidental  injury . 

90% 

Mental  health  care . 

Not  covered 

Dental  care . 

Not  covered 

Routine  physicals  and  tests . 

Not  covered 

Well-baby/well-child  care . 

Not  covered 

Plan  Cost 

The  total  cost  of  a  health  plan  is  a  function  of  sev¬ 
eral  factors,  including  health  benefits  design,  the  cost 


of  medical  care  in  a  given  geographic  location,  and 
the  type  and  amount  of  services  used  by  an  individual 
or  group  covered  by  the  plan. 

One  health  benefits  design  issue  is  to  fashion  the 
benefits  so  that  the  plan’s  cost  is  affordable  for  the 
payer  (e.g.,  the  employer,  the  enrollee  [if  premium 
contributions  are  required],  or  the  government).  This 
goal  is  frequently  in  conflict  with  the  goal  of  provid¬ 
ing  comprehensive  coverage,  since  plan  affordability 
is  generally  achieved  either  by  (1)  limiting  benefits, 
which  lowers  the  total  plan  costs,  or  (2)  sharing  costs 
between  the  plan  sponsor  and  the  enrollee  in  such  a 
way  that  the  enrollee  pays  a  lesser  or  greater  share  of 
the  cost  of  the  benefits  and  the  premiums,  which  re¬ 
sults  in  increased  or  lowered  cost  to  the  plan  sponsor. 

As  described  in  the  various  health  plan  options 
above,  health  plan  design  can  be  altered  to  attempt  to 
meet  certain  cost  requirements.  A  plan  designed  for 
the  low  income  (such  as  Option  4,  the  Tailored  Plan) 
would  have  little  or  no  enrollee  cost-sharing  require¬ 
ments  (e.g.,  deductibles,  coinsurance)  because  these 
would  serve  as  financial  barriers  to  care. 


What  Is  the  Framework  for  Health  Plan 
Benefits? 

Clearly,  once  a  health  benefits  plan  has  been  deter¬ 
mined,  it  needs  a  framework  or  setting  in  which  it 
will  be  applied.  For  example,  the  health  benefits  plan 
can  be  used  in  the  following  settings: 

— a  minimum  or  standard  plan  which  must  be  cov¬ 
ered  by  all  State  Medicaid  programs, 

— a  minimum  or  standard  plan  that  all  employers 
must  offer  under  an  employer  mandate, 

— a  minimum  or  standard  plan  that  any  insurer  can 
market, 

— a  minimum  plan  or  standard  plan  that  must  be 
sold/purchased  in  order  for  the  seller  or  pur¬ 
chaser  to  receive  favorable  Federal  tax  treatment, 
or 

— a  minimum  or  standard  plan  for  universal  health 
insurance  coverage. 

The  setting  will  determine  the  population  to  be 
covered  by  the  plan  and  also  will  focus  more  clearly 
a  decision  on  how  the  health  plan  will  be  paid  for 
(i.e.,  by  the  Federal  Government,  by  employers,  by 
enrollees,  etc.). 


66 


PREVENTIVE  HEALTH  SERVICES 


Melvina  Ford  and  Mark  Merlis  * 


This  memorandum  is  in  response  to  your  request 
for  information  on  preventive  health  services.  It  does 
not  include  public  health  initiatives  in  reduction  of  en¬ 
vironmental  hazards,  or  in  industrial  or  public  safety, 
but  focuses  on  preventive  services  that  can  be  pro¬ 
vided  in  clinical  settings. 

The  first  section  of  the  memorandum  defines  pre¬ 
ventive  health  services.  The  second  section  contains 
data  on  utilization  of  the  most  commonly  studied  pre¬ 
ventive  services  and  some  of  the  factors  affecting 
utilization.  The  third  section  of  the  memorandum  de¬ 
scribes  provisions  for  covering  preventive  services 
under  public  and  private  health  insurance  plans.  The 
fourth  section  reviews  evidence  on  the  benefits  of 
preventive  services  and  the  recommendations  that  are 
made  by  professional  associations  and  others  for  the 
use  of  preventive  services. 


DEFINITION  OF  PREVENTIVE 
SERVICES 

Preventive  health  services  may  be  divided  between 
primary  services,  which  are  intended  to  prevent  or 
delay  the  onset  of  disease,  and  secondary  services 
which  have  the  goal  of  detecting  illness  early  enough 
for  effective  treatment.  In  clinical  practice,  the  provi¬ 
sion  of  preventive  services  takes  the  form  of  im¬ 
munizations,  screening,  and  health  education  and 
counseling.  In  addition,  periodic  health  examinations, 
prenatal  care  and  well-child  care  provide  opportu¬ 
nities  for  identifying  medical  problems  and  lifestyle 
factors  that  may  place  a  person  at  particular  risk  for 
disease. 

Immunizations  create  resistance  to  infectious  and 
communicable  diseases.  Administered  to  persons  who 
show  no  evidence  of  disease,  immunizations  almost 


*  Report  prepared  by  Melvina  Ford,  Analyst  in  Social  Legislation  and 
Mark  Merlis,  Specialist  in  Social  Legislation,  Education  and  Public  Welfare 
Division,  Congressional  Research  Service,  February  1,  1990. 


completely  prevent  the  occurrence  of  disease.  Chil¬ 
dren  are  routinely  given  a  basic  series  of  immuni¬ 
zations.  For  adults,  tetanus  immunizations  are 
recommended  every  10  years  and  others  are  recom¬ 
mended  according  to  age  and  other  risk  factors. 

Screening  consists  of  standardized  examinations  ap¬ 
plied  to  individuals  who  have  no  symptoms  of  disease, 
in  order  to  detect  disease  or  a  precursor  early  enough 
for  effective  treatment.  For  example,  newborn  babies 
are  routinely  tested  for  certain  conditions  which, 
without  early  detection  and  treatment,  result  in  severe 
mental  retardation.  If  a  screening  procedure  is  to 
result  in  an  improved  outcome  relative  to  conven¬ 
tional  diagnosis  after  symptoms  are  present,  the  pro¬ 
cedure  should  accurately  detect  an  early  stage  of  a 
disease  or  condition  sooner  than  it  could  be  detected 
without  the  screening  examination,  and  there  should 
be  an  effective  therapy  available  for  treating  the 
condition. 

Education  and  counseling  interventions  provide  in¬ 
formation  and  advice  regarding  personal  behaviors  to 
reduce  the  risk  of  subsequent  illness. 

Periodic  health  examinations  (PHE)  are  overall 
screening  examinations.  The  frequency  and  content 
are  tailored  by  the  clinician  to  the  patient’s  age,  sex, 
medical  history,  and  personal  habits.  The  tailoring 
allows  the  clinician  to  use  the  preventive  measures 
likely  to  be  most  effective  for  each  patient. 

Prenatal  care  encompasses  a  range  of  preventive,  di¬ 
agnostic  and  therapeutic  services  delivered  with  the 
goal  of  improving  birth  outcomes  and  the  health  of 
the  mother.  Preventive  care  can  consist  of  education 
and  counseling  or  screening  for  potentially  harmful 
conditions  in  the  mother  or  child. 

Well-child  care  consists  of  various  health  services 
aimed  at  improving  the  health  of  children  and  having 
a  favorable  influence  on  their  health  as  adults.  Major 


67 


aspects  of  well-child  care  are  immunization  and  health 
supervision.  Immunizations  are  standardized  and  re¬ 
quired  by  State  laws.  Health  supervision  includes 
periodic  health  examinations,  health  education  and  pa¬ 
rental  counseling. 


DATA  ON  UTILIZATION  OF 
PREVENTIVE  SERVICES  1 

There  is  a  limited  number  of  studies  on  the  extent 
to  which  preventive  services  are  offered  by  clinicians 
or  received  by  patients.  The  studies  that  do  exist  do 
not  investigate  the  use  of  preventive  services  in  gen¬ 
eral,  but  are  limited  to  specific  procedures  such  as 
mammograms,  or  to  specific  illnesses  or  risk  factors 
such  as  coronary  heart  disease  or  smoking.  This 
leaves  a  lack  of  data  on  utilization  of  periodic  exami¬ 
nations.  Studies  may  be  further  limited  by  small 
sample  sizes,  non-random  samples  or  confined  geo¬ 
graphic  areas.  This  section  reviews  available  utiliza¬ 
tion  data  from  national  studies  or  surveys.  Some  of 
the  studies  relied  on  in  this  section  compare  utilization 
to  standards  or  recommendations  that  are  discussed  in 
greater  detail  later  in  this  memorandum. 


Children 

There  is  very  little  information  on  children’s  utiliza¬ 
tion  of  health  supervision  or  other  preventive  serv¬ 
ices.  The  one  service  category  for  which  adequate 
data  exist  is  immunization.  The  Centers  for  Disease 
Control  estimates  immunization  levels  for  children  en¬ 
tering  school  at  98  percent  in  1989. 2  Among  children 
under  age  2,  it  is  estimated  that  75  to  80  percent  have 
received  the  basic  immunization  series.3  Levels  of  im¬ 
munization  are  10  to  16  percent  lower  for  non- white 
children  and  for  children  living  in  central  city  areas.4 
Many  parents  delay  having  their  children  immunized 
until  school  entry  age.  As  a  result,  because  it  is  often 
the  pre-schoolers  who  succumb  to  childhood  diseases, 
control  of  vaccine-preventable  diseases  is  weakened. 


1  In  this  section,  data  from  the  Louis  Harris  and  Associates  survey  and 
from  the  1982  National  Health  Interview  Survey  are  from:  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Public  Health  Service,  Office  of  Disease  Pre¬ 
vention  and  Health  Promotion,  Disease  Prevention/Health  Promotion,  THE 
FACTS  (Palo  Alto,  Calif.:  1988). 

2  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Fiscal  Year  1990  Justifi¬ 
cation  of  Appropriation  Estimates  for  Committee  on  Appropriations,  vol.  2 
(Washington,  D.C.:  1989),  61. 

3  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Public  Health  Service, 
Draft  of  Promoting  Health/ Preventing  Disease:  Year  2000  Objectives  for  the 
Nation  (Washington,  D.C.:  1989).  (Hereafter  cited  as  U.S.  Department  of 
Health  and  Human  Services,  Draft  of  Promoting  Health/Preventing  Disease.) 

4  U.S.  Congress,  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy  Children:  In¬ 

vesting  in  the  Future  (Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  Febru¬ 

ary  1988),  143.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy 

Children.) 


Adult  Immunizations 

Information  on  adult  immunization  status  is 
fragmented.  The  Public  Health  Service  (PHS)  has 
estimated  that  in  1985  10  percent  of  the  non-institu- 
tionalized  high  risk  population  had  received  pneumo¬ 
coccal  vaccine  and  20  percent  had  received  influenza 
vaccine;  the  goal  of  the  PHS  for  the  year  2000  is  im¬ 
munization  of  60  percent  of  this  population.5  Studies 
show  use  of  influenza  vaccine  about  60  percent  of  the 
time  it  is  indicated.6  With  no  baseline  data  available, 
the  goal  of  the  PHS  for  the  year  2000  is  80  percent 
immunization  against  pneumococcal  pneumonia  and 
influenza  among  institutionalized  chronically  ill  and 
elderly.7 


Adult  Screening 

Data  from  the  1982  National  Health  Interview 
Survey  (NHIS)  suggests  that  use  of  screening  services 
increases  with  education  and  income.  About  90  per¬ 
cent  of  the  women  reported  ever  having  a  Pap  smear 
or  breast  examination.  Women  with  less  than  12 
years  of  education  and  household  incomes  under 
$10,000  were  more  likely  never  to  have  had 
either  examination. 

A  national  survey  conducted  by  Louis  Harris  and 
Associates  in  1985  supported  findings  from  the  NHIS. 
For  example,  while  78  percent  of  the  women  reported 
having  a  Pap  smear  every  1  or  2  years,  this  was  most 
likely  among  women  with  some  college  education  and 
household  incomes  of  $25,000  or  more.  Similarly,  as 
48  percent  of  the  respondents  claimed  to  have  annual 
cholesterol  testing,  those  most  likely  to  have  been 
tested  were  over  40  years  old  and  in  a  $50,000  income 
bracket. 

Both  the  Louis  Harris  survey  and  the  NHIS  found 
that  over  85  percent  of  the  population  received 
annual  blood  pressure  readings  with  no  differences  in 
income,  occupation  or  education.  The  Louis  Harris 
survey  found  that  blacks  were  most  likely  to  have  a 
blood  pressure  reading  more  often  than  once  a  year. 

Makuc,  et  al.,  comparing  data  from  the  1973  and 
1974  National  Health  Interview  Surveys  to  data  from 
the  1985  National  Health  Interview  Surveys  con- 


5  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Draft  of  Promoting 
Health /Preventing  Disease,  12-14. 

6  Charles  E.  Lewis,  “Disease  Prevention  and  Health  Promotion  Practices 
of  Primary  Care  Physicians  in  the  United  States,”  in  Implementing  Preventive 
Services,  eds.  Renaldo  N.  Battista  and  Robert  S.  Lawrence  (New  York:  1988), 
9-15.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Lewis,  Implementing  Preventive  Services.) 

7  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Draft  of  Promoting 
Health/Preventing  Disease,  2-14. 


68 


firmed  that  black  women  are  most  likely  to  be  tested, 
not  only  for  hypertension  but,  in  1985,  for  cervical 
and  breast  cancers  as  well.  The  researchers  found  that 
while  poor  women  continued  to  be  least  likely  to  be 
screened,  they  had  made  substantial  gains  in  the  use 
of  tests  over  the  period.  In  1985,  the  percent  of 
women  with  a  recent  Pap  test  or  breast  exam  was  10 
to  13  percentage  points  lower  among  poor  women 
than  among  the  non-poor  with  two  exceptions:  among 
black  women  60  to  79  years  of  age,  the  difference  was 
only  4  percentage  points  lower  for  Pap  smears  and  5 
percentage  points  lower  for  breast  examinations.  Be¬ 
tween  1973  and  1985,  the  percent  of  women  with 
recent  breast  examinations  increased  more  for  the 
poor  of  both  races  than  for  the  non-poor.  Also,  the 
percentage  of  women  who  had  never  had  a  Pap 
smear  or  a  breast  examination  was  highest  among 
older  poor  women  (18%)  than  among  other 
subgroups.  However,  it  was  older  poor  women  and 
black  women  who  accounted  for  substantial  gains  in 
the  use  of  tests  between  1973  and  1985.® 


Prenatal  Care 

Although  93  percent  of  the  mothers  responding  to 
the  Louis  Harris  survey  mentioned  above  reported 
having  sought  prenatal  care  during  the  first  3  months 
of  pregnancy,  other  sources  indicate  the  national 
number  is  closer  to  75  percent.9  The  25  percent  who 
do  not  receive  early  prenatal  care  are  the  poor,  the 
uninsured  and  racial  minorities.  Women  in  these 
groups  are  also  likely  to  make  fewer  than  the  recom¬ 
mended  number  of  visits  for  prenatal  care.10,  11 


Health  Education  and  Counseling 

There  are  more  data  on  counseling  for  smoking 
than  for  other  risk  factors.  Audits  of  patient  charts 
show  about  63  percent  of  smokers  advised  by  physi¬ 
cians  to  stop  smoking.12  With  regard  to  other  lifestyle 
factors,  surveys  of  family  physicians  indicate  dietary 
counseling  is  provided  to  about  58  percent  of  those  at 
risk,  and  exercise  counseling  for  sedentary  individuals 
to  about  25  percent.13 

8  Diane  M.  Makuc,  Virginia  M.  Freid  and  Joel  C.  KJeinman,  “National 
Trends  in  the  Use  of  Preventive  Health  Care  by  Women,”  American  Journal 
of  Public  Health,  79  (1)  (January  1989):  21-26.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Makuc. 
American  Journal ) 

*  General  Accounting  Office,  Prenatal  Care  Medicaid  Recipients  and  Unin¬ 
sured  Women  Obtain  Insufficient  Care  (September  1987). 

10  General  Accounting  Office,  Human  Resources  Division,  PRENATAL 
CARE  Medicaid  Recipients  and  Uninsured  Women  Obtain  Insufficient  Care 
(Washington,  D.C.:  1987),  chap.  2. 

11  The  Alan  Guttmacher  Institute,  The  Financing  of  Maternity  Care  in  the 
United  States  (New  York:  1987),  30-32. 

12  Lewis,  Implementing  Preventive  Services,  9-15. 

13  Lewis,  Implementing  Preventive  Services,  9-15. 


FACTORS  IN  UTILIZATION 

As  the  utilization  data  suggest,  income,  education 
and  minority  status  are  often  correlated  with  failure 
to  receive  health  care,  including  preventive  services. 
Financial  access,  in  particular,  has  been  cited  as  criti¬ 
cal.  Two  studies  analyze  receipt  of  preventive  serv¬ 
ices  with  particular  attention  to  costs  and  availability 
of  third-party  payment  for  services. 

Woolhandler  and  Himmelstein  examined  data  from 
the  1982  National  Health  Interview  Survey  to  explore 
the  relationships  between  insurance  coverage  and  re¬ 
ceipt  of  blood  pressure  check-ups,  clinical  breast  ex¬ 
aminations,  and  Pap  smears  by  middle-aged  women. 
Screening  was  deemed  inadequate  if  it  did  not  meet 
published  guidelines  for  optimal  frequency.  Eighty- 
eight  percent  of  the  sample  were  adequately  screened 
for  hypertension,  and  62  percent  for  breast  cancer. 
For  73  percent  of  the  women,  Pap  tests  were  ade¬ 
quate.  The  investigators  found  that  the  poor  and  the 
uneducated  were  least  likely  to  be  screened  and  black 
women  were  more  likely  to  be  screened.  However,  in 
all  subgroups,  lack  of  insurance  was  the  strongest  pre¬ 
dictor  of  receipt  of  preventive  services.  The  authors 
concluded  that  because  the  socioeconomically  disad¬ 
vantaged  who  make  up  most  of  the  uninsured  are  at 
particularly  high  risk  for  preventable  illness,  inad¬ 
equate  insurance  coverage  leads  to  reverse  targeting 
of  preventive  care.  That  is,  those  who  would  benefit 
most  are  least  likely  to  receive  it.14 

The  second  study,  by  Nicole  Lurie  et  al.,  looked  at 
whether  insurance  coverage  was  an  important  deter¬ 
minant  of  the  amount  of  preventive  care  received  by 
enrollees  during  a  3-year  period  in  the  Rand  Health 
Insurance  Experiment  (HIE).  The  HIE  was  a  trial  of 
cost  sharing  on  the  demand  for  health  services;  par¬ 
ticipants  were  assigned  to  either  free  care  or  one  of 
several  levels  of  cost  sharing.  The  participant  popula¬ 
tion  was  considered  to  be  a  representative  sample  of 
the  U.S.  population  under  age  65.  The  population  was 
broad  enough  to  enable  the  investigators  to  look  at 
how  different  age  groups  used  a  range  of  recom¬ 
mended  preventive  services. 

This  study  showed  that  enrollees  in  the  HIE  re¬ 
ceived  far  fewer  preventive  services  than  recom¬ 
mended.  Only  45  to  60  percent  of  young  children 
received  timely  immunizations.  Seven  percent  of  the 
children  received  no  well  child  care  in  their  first  18 
months  of  life.  Only  2  percent  of  the  women  aged  45 
to  64  received  mammography.  One  percent  of  the 


14  Steffie  Woolhandler  and  David  U.  Himmelstein,  “Reverse  Targeting  of 
Preventive  Care  Due  to  Lack  of  Health  Insurance,”  Journal  of  the  American 
Medical  Association,  259  (19)  (May  20,  1988):  2872-2874. 


69 


adults  received  preventive  sigmoidoscopy.  The  most 
frequently  performed  screening  procedure  was  Pap 
smears,  provided  to  57  percent  of  the  middle-aged 
women  and  to  66  percent  of  younger  women. 

Cost  sharing  was  associated  with  reduced  use  of 
preventive  services.  Fifty-nine  percent  of  the  children 
in  the  free  plans  received  some  immunization  com¬ 
pared  to  49  percent  of  the  children  in  the  cost  sharing 
plans.  Sixty-five  percent  of  the  middle-aged  women  in 
the  free  plan  received  Pap  smears  compared  to  52 
percent  of  the  women  in  the  cost  sharing  plans.  Al¬ 
though  cost  sharing  affected  utilization,  even  enrollees 
in  the  free  plan  did  not  receive  all  recommended  serv¬ 
ices.  Therefore,  the  researchers  concluded  that  cost 
sharing  is  not  the  only  obstacle  to  receipt  of  preven¬ 
tive  care.15 

Non-financial  obstacles  to  preventive  care  may  rest 
with  the  attitudes  and  knowledge  of  either  the  physi¬ 
cian  or  the  patient  or  with  the  health  care  delivery 
system  that  affects  them  both. 

A  variety  of  explanations  have  been  offered  for 
physicians’  failure  to  offer  preventive  services.  Some 
physicians  who  see  themselves  primarily  as  healers 
may  offer  less  preventive  care,  concentrating  on  the 
greater  challenge  of  managing  disease  rather  than 
maintaining  health.  Also,  curative  treatment  may  be 
felt  more  satisfying  because  it  yields  visible  short  term 
results  rather  than  the  uncertain  outcomes  of  preven¬ 
tive  care.  These  views  may  be  reinforced  by  a  lack  of 
emphasis  on  prevention  in  medical  training.  Attitudes 
toward  patients  may  also  play  a  part,  with  physicians 
less  likely  to  offer  service  if  there  is  skepticism  about 
the  patient’s  interest,  willingness  to  pay  for  the  serv¬ 
ice,  or  willingness  to  comply  with  advice.16 

A  physician  may  feel  uncertain  about  his  knowl¬ 
edge  of  effective  counseling  techniques  or  about  the 
efficacy  of  a  specific  preventive  service.  When  knowl¬ 
edge  is  not  lacking,  the  physician  establishes  a  priority 
for  the  most  needed  service  to  be  provided.  As  stated 
by  McPhee  and  Schroeder,  “the  public  health  benefit 
derived  from  giving  a  50  year  old  man  his  sixth  (life¬ 
time)  tetanus  immunization  ...  is  insignificant  when 
compared  to  the  benefits  from  encouraging  smoking 
cessation,  detecting  hypertension,  or  screening  for 
hypercholesterolemia  .  .  .  .”  17 

One  frequently  offered  explanation  for  physicians’ 
failure  to  provide  preventive  services  cites  the  uncer- 


18  Nicole  Lurie,  et.  al.,  “Preventive  Care:  Do  We  Practice  What  We 
Preach?”  American  Journal  of  Public  Health,  77  (7)  (July  1987):  801-804. 

16  Lewis,  Implementing  Preventive  Services,  9-15. 

17  Stephen  J.  McPhee  and  Steven  A.  Schroeder,  “Promoting  Preventive 
Care:  Changing  Reimbursement  Is  Not  Enough,”  American  Journal  of  Public 
Health,  77  (7)  (July  1987):  780-781. 


tainties  regarding  the  efficacy,  frequency  and  side  ef¬ 
fects  of  preventive  services.  The  argument  states,  if 
experts  do  not  agree,  then  a  practicing  physician 
cannot  be  expected  to  have  either  the  knowledge  or 
the  commitment  necessary  to  providing  a  service. 
Tests  have  not  supported  this  argument.  In  a  study  of 
the  factors  related  to  vaccinating  elderly  patients 
against  influenza,  McKinney  and  Barnas  found  no  re¬ 
lationships  between  physicians’  knowledge  of  the  vac¬ 
cine’s  efficacy  or  side  effects  and  the  decision  to  offer 
vaccine.  In  this  study,  only  41  percent  of  the  patients 
eligible  to  receive  the  vaccine  actually  received  it. 
Offers  of  vaccine  were  made  most  often  to  patients 
who  had  been  vaccinated  in  the  previous  year.  The 
authors  also  cited  a  report  of  a  nursing  home  popu¬ 
lation  in  which  only  33  percent  of  the  residents 
were  immunized  even  though  the  attending 
physicians  expressed  strong  convictions  in  favor  of 
immunization. 1 8 

Patients  may  not  be  inclined  to  seek  preventive  care 
that  entails  behavioral  changes  related  to  smoking, 
diet  or  exercise.  Preventive  care  may  be  avoided  be¬ 
cause  of  the  discomfort,  inconvenience  or  fear  of  side 
effects.  Failure  to  actively  seek  prenatal  care  or  im¬ 
munization  for  children  may  result  from  lack  of 
awareness  of  the  potential  benefits.  Similarly,  patients 
may  be  unaware  of  standards  for  care  that  require 
that  some  procedures  be  done  on  a  regular  basis. 

Systemic  barriers  that  affect  both  providers  and  pa¬ 
tients  include  lack  of  third-party  reimbursement  for 
preventive  services,  especially  counseling,  and  a  lack 
of  system-generated  cues  for  timely  action. 


COVERAGE  OF  PREVENTIVE 
SERVICES 

Insurance  coverage  of  preventive  services  has  his¬ 
torically  been  very  limited.  Private  health  insurance 
plans  and  Medicare  have  generally  denied  payment 
for  services  not  medically  necessary  for  the  diagnosis 
and  treatment  of  illness  or  injury.  Medicaid,  the  Fed¬ 
eral-State  program  for  low-income  individuals,  has 
been  an  exception  in  offering  substantial  benefits  for 
preventive  services.  More  recently,  some  private 
health  benefit  plans  have  begun  to  add  such  benefits, 
and  a  few  preventive  services  are  now  eligible  for 
Medicare  reimbursement.  This  section  reviews  the 
current  preventive  service  provisions  of  public  and 
private  health  insurance  programs,  as  well  as  other 


18  W.  Paul  McKinney  and  Gary  P.  Barnas,  "Influenza  Immunization  in  the 
Elderly:  Knowledge  and  Attitudes  Do  Not  Explain  Physician  Behavior,” 
American  Journal  of  Public  Health,  79  (10)  (October  1989):  1422-1424. 


70 


sources  of  funding  for  preventive  services,  such  as 
Federal  grant  programs. 

It  should  be  noted  that  some  preventive  services 
may  be  reimbursed  under  health  plans  even  when  the 
plans  exclude  such  services.  Many  screening  proce¬ 
dures  may  also  be  used  as  diagnostic  techniques.  The 
line  between  use  of  a  given  test  for  screening  and  use 
of  the  same  test  to  diagnose  illness  may  be  an  impre¬ 
cise  one.  Pap  tests  performed  for  screening  purposes 
may  be  reimbursed  if  the  provider  reports  cervicitis  as 
a  diagnosis  when  claiming  payment;  screening  mam¬ 
mography  may  be  reimbursed  under  the  reported  di¬ 
agnosis  of  chronic  cystic  mastitis.  The  extent  to 
which  preventive  services  are  being  covered  in  such 
circumstances  cannot  be  determined. 


Private  Health  Insurance 

Preventive  services  have  historically  been  excluded 
from  private  health  insurance  policies  because  the  use 
of  such  services  does  not  meet  the  traditional  defini¬ 
tion  of  an  “insurable  event.”  Insurance  is  based  on 
pooling  risk.  Subscribers  pay  a  premium  to  insure 
against  liability  for  a  large  portion  of  the  cost  of  a 
low-probability  high  cost  event  that  will  occur  to 
only  a  few  in  the  risk  pool.  Insurance  coverage  is  at¬ 
tractive  because  covered  events  are  unpredictable  on 
an  individual  basis.  The  amount  of  the  premium  is 
much  less  than  the  total  payment  for  the  event  but  the 
aggregate  premiums  cover  the  costs  of  occurrences. 
Preventive  services,  however,  are  predictable  along 
age/sex  lines  and  can  be  used  in  some  form  by  every¬ 
one.  Consequently,  the  premium  has  to  be  set  high 
enough  to  cover  services  to  all  subscribers,  and  cover 
profit  and  administrative  costs  to  the  insurer.  From 
the  insurers’  perspective,  then,  coverage  of  preventive 
services  is  really  prepayment  and  not  insurance. 

The  general  failure  to  cover  preventive  services 
might  seem  short-sighted  if  the  provision  of  such 
services  could  reduce  claims  for  more  costly  services 
in  the  future.  The  extent  to  which  preventive  care  can 
actually  produce  long-term  savings  is  discussed  later 
in  this  memorandum.  Given  the  current  structure 
of  the  health  insurance  system,  however,  long-term 
savings  may  not  be  a  consideration  for  insurers  or 
employers  in  designing  a  benefit  package.  Insurers  at¬ 
tempting  to  measure  the  cost-effectiveness  of  preven¬ 
tion  must  think  in  terms  of  costs  and  savings  in  a 
single  policy  year,  because  purchasers  may  shift  from 
one  insurer  to  another.  If,  as  will  be  suggested  below, 
the  benefits  of  preventive  services  are  not  realized  im¬ 
mediately,  the  insurer  has  no  incentive  to  offer  them. 
Employers’  incentives  may  be  somewhat  different.  If 
an  employer  has  relatively  low  turnover  of  workers, 


and  can  thus  expect  to  be  providing  health  benefits  to 
the  same  pool  of  workers  for  many  years,  the  em¬ 
ployer  might  have  a  greater  interest  in  potential  long¬ 
term  savings.  Even  in  the  absence  of  this  incentive, 
employees  may  press  for  coverage  of  preventive  care 
through  collective  bargaining  or  other  means. 

Thus,  despite  the  traditional  insurance  treatment  of 
preventive  services,  some  employer  health  benefit 
plans  have  begun  to  add  coverage  of  these  services.  A 
1988  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics  (BLS)  survey  of 
medium  and  large  firms  found  that  28  percent  of 
health  plan  enrollees  were  covered  for  routine 
physicals,  compared  to  18  percent  in  1986. 19  Other 
recent  surveys  also  suggest  that  coverage  of  preven¬ 
tive  services  may  be  increasing.  The  Foster  Higgins 
Health  Care  Benefits  Survey  found  that  41  percent  of 
surveyed  firms  offered  physicals  to  some  or  all  em¬ 
ployees  in  1987,  compared  to  24  percent  in  1986. 20 
The  BLS  survey  also  found  growing  coverage  of 
other  preventive  services.  In  1988,  31  percent  of  plan 
participants  were  covered  for  well-baby  care  and  29 
percent  for  immunizations.  Some  plans  exempt  pre¬ 
ventive  services  from  the  cost-sharing  requirements 
applicable  to  other  types  of  care.  IBM,  for  example, 
will  reportedly  reimburse  up  to  $200  per  year  in  pre¬ 
ventive  services  with  no  deductible.21  Statistics  on 
the  prevalence  of  this  practice  are  not  available. 

Health  maintenance  organizations  (HMOs) — health 
insurers  that  provide  or  arrange  covered  services 
through  affiliated  providers  instead  of  merely  paying 
claims  for  services  from  any  provider — have  tradition¬ 
ally  been  more  likely  than  other  insurance  plans  to 
offer  preventive  services.  The  term  “health  mainte¬ 
nance  organization”  was  coined  in  the  early  1970s  to 
reflect  the  view  of  HMO  proponents  that  these  plans 
were  less  costly  than  conventional  plans  because  of 
their  emphasis  on  preventive  care.  More  recent  evi¬ 
dence  suggests  that  most  HMO  savings  are  achieved 
through  other  means,  such  as  control  of  inpatient  hos¬ 
pital  services.  However,  coverage  of  preventive  serv¬ 
ices  remains  a  major  distinction  between  HMOs  and 
conventional  plans.  Federally  qualified  HMOs  must 
provide  as  basic  benefits  periodic  health  assessments, 
well  baby  care,  and  immunizations.22  As  of  June 


19  U.S.  Department  of  Labor,  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics,  Employee  Bene¬ 
fits  in  Medium  and  Large  Firms,  1986  (Washington,  D.C.:  June  1987). 

20  A.  Foster  Higgins  &  Co.,  Foster  Higgins  Health  Care  Benefits  Survey, 
1987  (New  York:  1987).  The  difference  between  the  BLS  and  Foster  Higgins 
figures  stems  from  the  fact  that  the  BLS  survey  considers  only  plans  offered 
to  all  full-time  workers,  while  Foster  Higgins  takes  into  account  special  plans 
offered  to  executives. 

2 1  Jonathan  E.  Fielding,  “Economic  and  Social  Determinants  of  Preven¬ 
tion  in  Health  Care  Provision  in  the  United  States,”  Implementing  Preventive 
Services,  1988. 

22  A  Federally  qualified  HMO  is  one  determined  by  the  Department  of 
Health  and  Human  Services  to  meet  minimum  standards  set  forth  in  the 
HMO  Act  (Title  XIII  of  the  Public  Health  Service  Act).  Certain  employers 


71 


1988,  76  percent  of  the  31  million  HMO  enrollees 
were  in  federally  qualified  plans  subject  to  these  re¬ 
quirements.23  HMOs  that  are  not  federally  qualified 
may  be  subject  to  State  licensure  laws  that  impose 
similar  minimum  benefits  or  may  offer  preventive  ben¬ 
efits  on  their  own  (possibly  because  they  are  in  com¬ 
petition  with  federally  qualified  plans). 

The  BLS  survey  cited  earlier  found  that  99  percent 
of  participants  in  HMOs  were  covered  for  physicals 
and  immunizations  and  98  percent  for  well-baby  care. 
Coverage  of  these  services  for  participants  in  non- 
HMO  plans  ranged  from  11  percent  for  physicals  to 
15  percent  for  well-baby  care.  These  figures  suggest 
that  much  of  the  recent  growth  in  preventive  services 
coverage  may  stem  from  growth  in  the  market  share 
of  HMOs,  rather  than  from  changes  in  conventional 
coverage  options.  Still,  even  non-HMO  plans  are  be¬ 
ginning  to  offer  these  services  to  a  greater  extent  than 
before. 

Plans  that  do  not  generally  cover  preventive  serv¬ 
ices  may  offer  them  for  a  special  class  of  employees, 
such  as  executives.  The  1989  Hay /Huggins  survey  of 
medium  and  large  employers  found  that  43  percent  of 
plans  covered  physical  examinations  only  for  execu¬ 
tives,  and  another  6  percent  had  different  policies  for 
executives  and  other  salaried  employees.  Only  15  per¬ 
cent  offered  coverage  of  physicals  uniformly  to  all 
salaried  employees.24  (The  Tax  Reform  Act  of  1986 
added  a  new  section  89  to  the  Internal  Revenue 
Code,  which  would  have  denied  tax  preferences  to 
plans  that  discriminated  in  favor  of  highly  compen¬ 
sated  employees.  This  provision  was  repealed  in  1989, 
but  there  remain  some  restrictions  on  discriminatory 
plans  offered  by  self-insured  employers.) 

Supplemental  preventive  benefits  may  also  be  of¬ 
fered  as  part  of  a  flexible  benefits  or  “cafeteria  plan,’’ 
under  which  employees  may  choose  among  such 
fringe  benefits  as  child  care,  legal  assistance,  or  en¬ 
hanced  health  benefits.  A  Wyatt  Company  survey 
found  that  19  percent  of  firms  offered  flexible  bene¬ 
fits  in  1988.  Of  these,  71  percent  offered  as  one  of 
the  optional  benefits  “medical  care  reimbursement 
accounts.”  25  In  these  arrangements,  the  employer 
contributes  a  specified  sum  to  the  account,  and  the 
employee  can  then  draw  on  the  account  to  cover 
services  not  otherwise  available  under  the  employer’s 
standard  health  benefit  plan,  such  as  preventive  care. 


that  offer  health  benefits  may  be  required  to  offer  an  HMO  option  to  their 
employees  if  there  is  a  Federally  qualified  HMO  in  the  area  that  seeks  to  be 
offered. 

23  InterStudy,  The  InterStudy  Edge  (Excelsior,  Minn.:  Fall  1988). 

24  Hay  Management  Consultants,  Hay/Huggins  Benefits  Report  (Philadel¬ 
phia:  1989). 

25  Wyatt  Company,  1988  Group  Benefits  Survey  Report  (Washington,  D.C.: 
1988). 


A  number  of  States  have  mandated  that  insurers 
cover  preventive  services.  Fifteen  States  require  cov¬ 
erage  of  mammograms;  seven  mandate  preventive 
services  for  children  and  infants.  Diabetic  education  is 
required  in  four  States  and  Pap  smears  in  two.  One 
State  mandates  coverage  of  prenatal  care.  However, 
these  mandates  apply  to  employer  health  benefit  plans 
only  if  the  employer  purchases  a  policy  from  a  State- 
licensed  insurer.  An  employer  that  self-insures,  covers 
employees’  health  costs  directly  instead  of  through  an 
insurance  policy,  is  exempt  from  State  mandates 
under  the  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act 
of  1974  (ERISA).  As  of  1984,  more  than  50  percent 
of  all  employees  with  health  insurance  were  in  self-in¬ 
sured  plans  that  were  exempt  from  State  mandates.26 


Federal  Health  Programs 

Medicare — Medicare  law  specifically  excludes  cov¬ 
erage  of  preventive  services,  with  a  few'  exceptions. 
Influenza  vaccine  and  pneumococcal  vaccine  are  cov¬ 
ered;  vaccine  for  hepatitis  B  is  covered  for  persons  at 
high  or  intermediate  risk  of  contracting  the  disease. 
The  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989 
(P.L.  101-239)  added  coverage  of  Pap  smears,  effec¬ 
tive  July  1990.  Beneficiaries  may  receive  a  Pap  smear 
every  3  years,  or  more  often  for  persons  determined 
to  be  at  high  risk  for  cervical  cancer.  Coverage  of 
screening  mammography  was  included  in  the  Medi¬ 
care  Catastrophic  Coverage  Act  of  1988  (P.L.  100- 
360),  but  was  subsequently  repealed. 

As  in  the  case  of  private  insurance,  beneficiaries 
who  choose  to  enroll  in  HMOs  may  receive  broader 
preventive  service  coverage.  Of  the  131  HMOs  and 
competitive  medical  plans  (CMPs)  with  Medicare  risk 
contracts  in  December  1989,  82  percent  offered  rou¬ 
tine  physicals,  76  percent  covered  immunizations 
beyond  those  covered  under  Medicare,  and  62  per¬ 
cent  provided  health  education.27 

The  Consolidated  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation 
Act  of  1985  (P.L.  99-272)  required  the  Secretary  to 
conduct  at  least  five  4-year  demonstration  projects  to 
determine  the  costs  and  effectiveness  of  providing 
preventive  health  services  to  Medicare  beneficiaries. 
Six  such  projects  are  currently  under  way  in  Raleigh- 
Durham,  Seattle,  San  Diego,  Los  Angeles,  Baltimore, 
and  Pittsburgh.  Randomly  selected  patients  are  placed 
into  either  experimental  or  control  groups.  The  con¬ 
trol  group  patients  receive  their  usual  care,  while 


28  Patricia  McDonnell,  et  al.,  “Self-Insured  Health  Plans,”  Health  Care  Fi¬ 
nancing  Review,  8  (2)  (Winter  1986):  1-16. 

27  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  Office  of  Prepaid  Health  Care, 
Monthly  Report:  Medicare  Prepaid  Health  Plans  (December  1989). 


72 


individuals  in  the  experimental  groups  receive  screen¬ 
ing,  immunization  and  counseling  services.  Scheduled 
to  end  early  in  1991,  the  projects  will  have  collected 
data  for  about  2  years.  One  of  the  potential  limitations 
of  the  demonstrations  is  that  the  full  effects  of  preven¬ 
tive  care  on  costs  and  outcomes  may  not  be  measura¬ 
ble  over  the  relatively  short  life  of  the  projects. 

Medicaid — Medicaid  is  a  Federal-State  matching 
program  providing  medical  assistance  to  low  income 
persons  who  are  aged,  blind,  disabled,  or  members  of 
families  with  children.  Each  State  designs  and  admin¬ 
isters  its  own  Medicaid  program,  setting  eligibility 
and  coverage  standards  within  broad  Federal  guide¬ 
lines.  States  are  required  to  cover  preventive  services 
for  children  and  are  permitted  to  cover  such  services 
for  adults. 

For  beneficiaries  under  age  21,  all  States  must  pro¬ 
vide  Early  and  Periodic  Screening,  Diagnosis,  and 
Treatment  (EPSDT)  services.  Services  include  peri¬ 
odic  health  examinations,  vision,  hearing,  and  dental 
examinations  and  treatment  or  correction  of  problems 
noted,  as  well  as  immunizations  and  health  education. 
In  the  year  ended  June  30,  1989,  32  percent  of  the  9.8 
million  Medicaid  beneficiaries  under  age  21  received 
initial  or  periodic  examinations  under  EPSDT.  (An¬ 
other  10  percent  of  these  beneficiaries  were  enrolled 
in  HMOs  or  other  “continuing  care  arrangements”; 
utilization  figures  for  this  segment  are  not  available.) 

Coverage  of  preventive  services  for  adults  is  op¬ 
tional  under  Medicaid  law;  only  coverage  of  prenatal 
care  is  mandatory.  As  of  1987,  21  States  included  pre¬ 
ventive  services  in  their  Medicaid  plans.  No  further 
information  is  available  about  the  exact  nature  of  the 
services  provided. 

Other  Federal  Programs — In  addition  to  Medicare 
and  Medicaid,  a  variety  of  Federal  programs  provide 
funding  for  preventive  health  initiatives  by  State  and 
local  governments  or  private  entities.  Some  of  these 
programs  include  funding  for  actual  delivery  of  pre¬ 
ventive  services.  The  most  important  of  these  pro¬ 
grams  are  as  follows: 

•  The  Preventive  Health  and  Health  Services 
Block  Grant  authorized  by  the  Public  Health 
Service  Act  provides  grants  to  States  for  preven¬ 
tive  health  services,  including  programs  to  detect 
and  prevent  hypertension,  immunization  services, 
serum  cholesterol  control  projects,  and  screening 
for  uterine  and  breast  cancer. 

•  The  Maternal  and  Child  Health  Block  Grant  au¬ 
thorized  by  Title  V  of  the  Social  Security  Act 
provides  grants  to  States  for  a  variety  of  health 
programs,  including  direct  provision  of  preven¬ 


tive  and  primary  care  services  to  mothers  and 
children,  health  screening,  immunizations,  and 
screening  of  newborns  for  sickle  cell  anemia  and 
other  genetic  disorders. 

•  The  Centers  for  Disease  Control  (CDC)  immuni¬ 
zation  program  provides  grants  to  State  and  local 
health  agencies  for  operation  of  childhood  immu¬ 
nization  programs. 

•  Other  CDC  programs  fund  screening  and  other 
preventive  services  targeted  at  specific  diseases, 
including  AIDS,  diabetes,  lead  poisoning,  sexu¬ 
ally  transmitted  diseases,  and  tuberculosis. 

There  are  also  Federal  programs  that  support  certain 
facilities  in  providing  general  medical  care,  including 
preventive  services,  to  target  populations.  Among 
these  programs  are  grants  to  community  and  migrant 
health  centers,  which  provide  services  to  low-income 
populations  in  underserved  areas,  and  the  Indian 
Health  Service,  which  provides  or  purchases  services 
for  certain  groups  of  Indians. 


EVALUATING  PREVENTIVE  SERVICES 

Evaluating  preventive  services  involves  determin¬ 
ing  the  benefits,  risks  and  costs  of  an  intervention  and 
comparing  them  to  the  benefits,  risks  and  costs  of  an 
alternative.  The  alternative  may  be  another  form  of 
intervention,  or  the  alternative  may  be  to  do  nothing 
and  let  nature  take  its  course. 

The  benefits  of  prevention  are  reflected  in  reduced 
mortality  and  improved  quality  of  life.  Of  course,  im¬ 
proved  health,  or  any  savings  from  averted  costs  of 
treatment,  does  not  occur  for  every  person  who  re¬ 
ceives  a  preventive  intervention  but  only  for  those 
who  would  have  been  afflicted  with  the  target  condi¬ 
tion  in  the  absence  of  the  intervention.  (Others,  may, 
however,  have  greater  peace  of  mind  as  a  result  of 
preventive  services.)  For  society,  the  benefits  appear 
in  lower  incidence  of  illness  and  in  improved  health 
status  indicators. 

The  risks  of  prevention  include  the  risks  from  the 
intervention  itself,  such  as  the  risk  of  vaccine  injury 
or  radiation-induced  cancer,  or  risk  of  misdiagnosis 
from  a  false-positive  examination  result.  These  risks 
are  balanced  against  the  risk  of  contracting  the  disease 
the  intervention  is  designed  to  prevent. 

The  costs  of  prevention  include  the  resource  costs 
of  the  intervention  and  the  costs  of  treating  any  com¬ 
plications  from  the  intervention. 


73 


The  following  discussion  reviews  the  available  evi¬ 
dence  on  the  benefits,  risks  and  costs  of  the  most 
frequently  delivered  or  recommended  preventive 
services.  Recommendations  for  preventive  services 
are  issued  by  professional  and  scientific  associations, 
voluntary  associations,  medical  specialty  organiza¬ 
tions,  governmental  agencies  and  by  individual  profes¬ 
sionals.  The  recommendations  do  not  always  agree 
and  may  even  be  contradictory.  Differences  occur  be¬ 
cause  of  the  lack  of  good  evidence  of  the  effective¬ 
ness  of  preventive  services  and  because  of  the  diverse 
interpretations  different  groups  give  to  the  evidence 
that  is  available.  There  is  a  lack  of  research  directly 
linking  interventions  to  outcomes.  Even  where  re¬ 
search  is  available,  different  interpretations  may  be 
used  to  derive  recommendations  for  what  services 
should  be  provided  to  whom. 

The  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task  Force 
(USPSTF)  uses  explicitly  structured  criteria  for  link¬ 
ing  evidence  to  recommendations  and  has  established 
rules  of  evidence  that  are  applied  to  each  topic 
studied.  Task  Force  recommendations  rely  on  re¬ 
search  documenting  the  efficacy  and  effectiveness  of 
the  intervention.28 

Incidence  and  mortality  data  and  the  recommenda¬ 
tions  included  in  the  following  were  compiled  by  the 
Office  of  Technology  Assessment  and  the  United 
States  Preventive  Services  Task  Force. 


Periodic  Health  Examinations 

Historically,  it  has  been  recommended  that  every¬ 
one  have  a  complete  annual  physical  examination. 
The  annual  physical  included  a  nearly  identical  bat¬ 
tery  of  tests  to  each  patient  each  year.  The  value  of 
the  annual  physical  has  been  questioned  in  recent 
years  due  to  concerns  about  the  efficiency  and  health 
benefits  of  performing  the  same  procedures  on  each 
patient  on  a  scheduled  basis.  Governmental  agencies 
and  professional  societies  have  established  or  are  de¬ 
veloping  recommendations  either  about  periodic 
health  examinations  or  about  specific  preventive  serv¬ 
ices  that  require  a  physician  visit.  The  frequency  and 
content  of  periodic  health  examinations  are  deter¬ 
mined  by  the  patient’s  age,  sex  and  medical  history. 
Health  improvement  that  results  from  the  periodic  ex¬ 
amination  alone,  is  undetermined. 


28  Robert  S.  Lawrence,  “Preface  to:  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task 
Force,”  Guide  to  Clinical  Preventive  Services,  Prepublication  Copy  (1989). 


Prenatal  Care 

Prenatal  care  encompasses  a  range  of  preventive, 
diagnostic  and  therapeutic  services  delivered  with  the 
goal  of  improving  birth  outcomes  and  the  health  of 
the  mother.  A  large  body  of  evidence  supports  the 
effectiveness  of  early  and  frequent  prenatal  care  on 
reducing  low  birth  weight  and  infant  mortality.  The 
costs  of  prenatal  care  are  most  often  compared  to  the 
costs  of  initial  intensive  care  and  rehospitalization  for 
the  low  birth  weight  baby.  The  Office  of  Technology 
Assessment  has  estimated  savings  of  $14,000  to 
$30,000  for  each  low  birth  weight  birth  averted.29 

Controversy  and  uncertainty  about  prenatal  care  do 
not  center  around  whether  prenatal  care  is  effective 
overall,  but  around  timing  and  frequency  of  clinic 
visits  and  effectiveness  of  the  components  of  prenatal 
care.  Several  studies  have  demonstrated  that  women 
at  high  risk  for  poor  birth  outcomes  benefit  more 
from  prenatal  care  than  women  at  average  risk.30  A 
panel  convened  by  PHS  reportedly  recommended 
reductions  in  the  numbers  of  visits  and  procedures 
delivered  to  pregnant  women  at  moderate  and  low 
risk,  and  a  redirection  of  resources  to  higher  risk 
mothers. 3 1 


Well-Child  Care 

The  main  aspects  of  well-child  care  are  immuniza¬ 
tion  (discussed  in  the  next  section)  and  health  supervi¬ 
sion.  Immunizations  aside,  there  is  little  evidence  of 
the  effectiveness  of  well-child  care.  Mortality  is  not 
an  appropriate  outcome  measure  for  children,  and 
studies  of  morbidity  and  development  have  not  been 
able  to  demonstrate  that  health  supervision  has  any 
impact.  Also,  there  are  questions  of  whether  good 
health  in  children  is  influenced  more  by  medical  care 
or  by  social  and  economic  factors.  Health  supervision 
may  have  more  impact  on  the  health  and  develop¬ 
ment  of  a  child  at  risk  because  of  social  and  economic 
factors  than  on  the  health  of  the  child  at  low  risk.  In 
any  case,  expert  opinion  advocates  regular  health  care 
for  children  and  parents  may  find  it  reassuring. 
This  is  an  example  of  a  preventive  service  that  is 
intuitively  valued,  but  for  which  definitive  research  is 
still  lacking.32 


29  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy  Children,  85. 

30  Committee  to  Study  the  Prevention  of  Low  Birth  weight,  Division  of 
Health  Promotion  and  Disease  Prevention,  Institute  of  Medicine,  Preventing 
Low  Birthweight:  Summary  (Washington,  D.C.:  1985),  21. 

31  Janice  Perrone,  “PHS  Panel  Recommends  Changes  in  Prenatal  Care,” 
American  Medical  News  (October  13,  1989). 

32  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy  Children,  chap.  6. 


74 


Immunizations 

Immunization  is  considered  a  safe,  effective  and 
cost-effective  method  of  controlling  many  communi¬ 
cable  diseases.33  However,  it  is  not  without  risk. 
Yearly,  a  small  number  of  people  suffer  serious  injury 
or  death  from  reactions  to  vaccines.34  When  an  entire 
population  is  at  risk  of  harm  from  a  disease,  risk  from 
the  preventive  measure  seems  minimal.  Thus,  all  chil¬ 
dren  are  immunized  against  the  childhood  diseases. 
However,  when  the  risk  of  disease  is  very  low,  risk 
of  injury  from  vaccine  assumes  a  greater  importance. 
Selecting  the  population  appropriate  to  receive  the 
preventive  measure  helps  to  balance  the  risks.  Thus, 
influenza  vaccine  is  targeted  to  the  medically  high 
risk  population  for  whom  a  mild  case  of  flu  can  be 
life-threatening.  When  it  is  difficult  to  estimate  which 
carries  the  greater  risk,  the  intervention  or  the  dis¬ 
ease,  decisions  to  promote,  provide,  or  accept  a  vac¬ 
cine  may  be  made  on  the  basis  of  personal  values. 

Children  in  the  U.S.  are  routinely  immunized 
against  diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis  (whooping 
cough),  poliomyelitis,  measles,  mumps  and  rubella 
(German  measles),  and  recently,  haemophilus 
influenzae  b  (Hib).  Vaccines  against  diphtheria,  teta¬ 
nus,  and  pertussis  are  administered  in  a  single  shot 
(DTP).  Similarly,  vaccines  against  measles,  mumps 
and  rubella  are  administered  as  the  single  MMR. 
Polio  vaccinations  are  administered  orally  and  are 
commonly  referred  to  as  OPV.  The  relatively  new 
Hib  protects  against  the  Hib  infection  which  is  the 
leading  cause  of  bacterial  meningitis.  The  vaccines 
provide  both  health  benefits  and  cost  savings.35,  36 

For  adults,  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control,  the 
American  College  of  Physicians  and  the  USPSTF 
recommend  pneumococcal  and  influenza  vaccines  for 
persons  over  age  65.  Hepatitis  B  vaccine  is  recom¬ 
mended  by  CDC  and  the  USPSTF  for  intravenous 
drug  users  and  others  at  special  risk.  Tetanus-diphthe¬ 
ria  boosters  are  recommended  for  all  adults  every  10 
years. 


33  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Fiscal  Year  1990  Justi¬ 
fication  of  Appropriation  Estimates  for  Committee  on  Appropriations,  (2)  (Wash¬ 
ington,  D.C.:  1989),  61.  (Hereafter  cited  as  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services,  Appropriation  Estimates.) 

34  U.S.  Congress,  House  Committee  on  Energy  and  Commerce,  National 
Childhood  Vaccine  Injury  Act  of  1986,  House  Report  No.  99-908,  99th  Cong., 
2d  sess.,  part  1  (Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  1986). 

35  U.S.  Congress,  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy  Children:  In¬ 
vesting  in  the  Future  (Washington.  D.C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  1988), 
135. 

38  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Appropriation  Esti¬ 
mates,  (2):  60-61. 


Screening 

If  a  screening  procedure  is  to  result  in  an  improved 
outcome  relative  to  conventional  diagnosis  after 
symptoms  are  present,  the  procedure  should  accu¬ 
rately  detect  an  early  stage  of  disease  sooner  than  it 
could  be  detected  without  the  screening  examination 
and  there  should  be  an  effective  therapy  available  for 
treating  the  condition.  The  benefits  of  early  detection 
are  questionable  if  the  condition  that  is  the  target  of 
the  screening  is  not  treatable. 

The  ultimate  benefits  of  early  detection  depend  not 
only  on  the  availability  of  treatment,  but  also  on  the 
patient’s  willingness  to  enter  into  and  maintain  the 
course  of  treatment  which  may  entail  substantial 
changes  to  lifestyle.  An  individual  who,  before 
screening,  had  no  signs  or  symptoms  of  illness,  may 
be  reluctant  to  adhere  to  a  difficult  and  costly  regi¬ 
men  that  offers  the  uncertain  possibility  of  avoiding 
illness  many  years  in  the  future. 

There  are  some  screening  procedures  which  au¬ 
thorities  agree  should  be  performed  on  everyone  even 
though  they  may  not  agree  on  the  target  population, 
the  frequency  with  which  the  procedure  should  be 
performed  or  on  the  threshold  for  initiating  treatment. 
There  is  general  agreement  on  screening  for  hyperten¬ 
sion  or  high  blood  pressure,  for  high  blood  choles¬ 
terol,  and  on  performing  Pap  smears,  clinical  breast 
examinations  and  mammograms.  Some  tests  not  rec¬ 
ommended  for  the  general  population  may  be  recom¬ 
mended  for  persons  who  have  no  symptoms  but  who 
have  been  determined  to  be  at  high  risk  for  the  target 
condition  because  of  medical  history  or  some  other 
reason.  As  these  cases  are  generally  left  to  the  physi¬ 
cian’s  discretion,  the  following  discussions  refer  to 
persons  at  average  risk. 

Routine  newborn  screenings  include  those  for 
phenylketonuria  (PKU)  and  hypothyroidism,  prob¬ 
lems  which  can  cause  irreversible  severe  mental  retar¬ 
dation  if  they  are  not  treated  or  not  treated  early 
enough  in  an  infant’s  development.  Some  States  re¬ 
quire  screening  for  other  metabolic  diseases  which 
have  serious  adverse  consequences.  While  early  diag¬ 
nosis  may  be  useful  to  some  infants  and  their  families, 
in  some  cases,  there  is  no  treatment  for  the  target 
condition,  or  the  benefits  of  early  treatment  are  not 
known.  When  tests  are  performed  for  PKU  and 
hypothyroidism  only,  savings  amount  to  about 
$93,000  for  each  case  found  and  treated.37  Additional 
tests  may  require  collecting  additional  specimens  at 
substantially  higher  cost. 

37  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Healthy  Children,  106. 


75 


Hypertension,  a  leading  factor  in  coronary  artery 
disease,  congestive  heart  failure  and  stroke,  may  affect 
as  many  as  58  million  Americans.38  The  benefits  of 
controlling  hypertension  have  been  well  established 
with  the  greatest  effects  seen  in  reductions  of 
cerebrovascular  disease  and  deaths  due  to  stroke.  The 
American  Academy  of  Pediatrics  and  the  National 
Heart,  Lung  and  Blood  Institute  recommend  annual 
testing  for  persons  3  to  20  years  old;  they  recommend 
tests  every  2  years  for  adults  not  previously  identified 
as  having  high  blood  pressure.  Because  the  procedure 
can  be  performed  simply  during  the  course  of  a  medi¬ 
cal  visit,  it  is  reasonable  to  expect  that  no  additional 
charge  would  be  incurred. 

High  blood  cholesterol  is  a  major  risk  factor  in  coro¬ 
nary  heart  disease  in  men.  The  benefit  of  lowering 
cholesterol  in  women  and  the  elderly  has  not  been  es¬ 
tablished.  However,  these  groups  account  for  a  large 
portion  of  the  population  where  a  small  benefit  to 
large  numbers  may  have  a  significant  public  health 
impact.  The  National  Heart,  Lung  and  Blood  Institute 
recommends  measurement  of  blood  cholesterol  in  all 
adults  at  least  every  5  years  although  the  USPSTF 
leaves  testing  to  the  physician’s  discretion. 

Pap  smear  is  the  principal  screening  test  for  cancer 
of  the  cervix.  Each  year,  there  are  about  13,000  new 
cases  and  7,000  deaths  from  cervical  cancer  in  the 
U.S.  Both  figures  represent  decreases  due  in  part  to 
early  detection  and  treatment.  The  appropriate  fre¬ 
quency  and  ages  for  Pap  test  screening  are  controver¬ 
sial.  With  frequent  testing,  lesions  that  could  be 
precancerous  are  less  likely  to  escape  detection.  How¬ 
ever,  there  may  be  a  diminishing  return  with  increas¬ 
ing  frequency.  The  American  Cancer  Society,  the 
National  Cancer  Institute,  the  American  College  of 
Obstetricians  and  Gynecologists,  the  American  Medi¬ 
cal  Association,  the  American  Nurses  Association,  the 
American  Academy  of  Family  Physicians  and  the 
American  Medical  Women’s  Association  recommend 
annual  Pap  smears  for  all  women  who  are  or  have 
been  sexually  active  or  have  reached  age  18.  After  3 
normal  annual  smears,  the  recommendations  allow  for 
less  frequent  testing  at  the  discretion  of  a  physician. 
The  National  Institutes  of  Health  recommends  Pap 
testing  be  discontinued  after  age  60  if  previous  smears 
have  been  consistently  negative.  The  USPSTF  recom¬ 
mends  Pap  smears  be  repeated  every  1  to  3  years  at 
the  physician’s  discretion  and  discontinued  at  age  65  if 
previous  smears  have  been  consistently  normal. 

Breast  self-examination  (BSE)  along  with  clinical 
breast  examination  and  mammography  are  the  three 


38  U.S.  Preventive  Services  Task  Force,  Guide  to  Clinical  Preventive  Serv¬ 
ices,  Prepublication  copy  (May  1989).  (Hereafter  cited  as  U.S.  Preventive 
Services,  Clinical  Preventive  Services.) 


screening  techniques  used  to  detect  breast  cancer,  the 
leading  cause  of  cancer  deaths  among  women.  Breast 
cancer  accounts  for  over  140,000  new  cases  and  over 
40,000  deaths  in  the  U.S.  each  year.  The  effectiveness 
of  self-examination  on  mortality  is  not  clear;  the  effec¬ 
tiveness  of  clinical  breast  exams  and  mammography 
has  been  demonstrated  in  reducing  mortality  among 
women  age  50  and  over.39,  40  However,  there  is  un¬ 
certainty  about  the  benefits  of  mammographies  for 
women  ages  40  to  49.41  Most  authorities  recommend 
or  support  monthly  BSE,  regular  clinical  examination, 
baseline  mammography  between  ages  35  and  40  fol¬ 
lowed  by  annual  or  biennial  mammograms  from  ages 
40  to  49,  and  annual  mammograms  beginning  at  age 
50.  The  American  College  of  Physicians  recommends 
annual  clinical  breast  examinations  starting  at  age  40 
and  annual  mammograms  beginning  at  age  50.  The 
USPSTF  limits  recommendations  for  mammography 
to  every  1  to  2  years  for  women  ages  50  to  75. 

Fecal  occult  blood  testing  (FOBT)  and  sigmoidoscopy 
are  used  to  screen  for  colorectal  cancer,  the  second 
most  common  form  of  cancer  in  the  U.S.  With  the 
second  highest  mortality  rate  from  cancer,  colorectal 
cancer  accounts  for  150,000  new  cases  and  61,000 
deaths  per  year.  In  addition,  the  condition  and  treat¬ 
ment  can  produce  considerable  discomfort  and 
suffering. 

Sigmoidoscopic  tests  use  rigid  or  flexible  instru¬ 
ments  that  enable  the  examiner  to  look  into  the 
rectum.  These  examinations  may  detect  polyps,  5  to 
40  percent  of  which  may  become  cancerous  over  a 
period  of  10  to  15  years.  In  persons  with  no  symp¬ 
toms,  1  to  4  cancers  may  be  detected  for  every  1,000 
sigmoidoscopic  examinations.  At  $100  to  $200,  the 
sigmoidoscopic  examination  is  relatively  expensive, 
with  the  cost  of  screening  all  adults  over  age  50  esti¬ 
mated  at  $1  billion  per  year.  Risks  include  possible 
perforation  of  the  bowel  in  addition  to  the  danger  of 
false-positives. 

While  some  studies  in  which  screening  was  a  factor 
show  reduced  mortality  from  colorectal  cancer,  firm 
evidence  that  screening  prevents  morbidity  and  mor¬ 
tality  from  colorectal  cancer  is  not  available.  The 
American  Cancer  Society,  the  National  Cancer  Insti¬ 
tute,  the  American  Gastroenterological  Association, 
and  the  American  Society  for  Gastrointestinal  Endos¬ 
copy  recommend  annual  FOBT  and  sigmoidoscopy 


39  Makuc,  American  Journal,  21-26. 

40  David  M.  Eddy,  et  al.,  “The  Value  of  Mammography  Screening  in 
Women  Under  Age  50  Years,”  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association, 
259  (10)  (March  11,  1988):  1512-1519. 

41  David  Eddy,  et  al.,  reviewed  several  studies  and  concluded  that  annual 
screening  for  25  percent  of  the  women  in  this  age  group  would  reduce  deaths 
from  breast  cancer  in  the  U.S.  from  10,700  to  10,327  in  the  year  2000  at  a 
cost  of  over  $400  million. 


76 


every  3  to  5  years  beginning  at  age  50.  The  USPSTF 
reports  that  some  experts  advise  against  sig¬ 
moidoscopy  but  recommend  FOBT  every  2  years  be¬ 
tween  ages  40  and  50  and  annually  thereafter.  The 
USPSTF  finds  insufficient  evidence  to  recommend  for 
or  against  either  screening  procedure  but  states  there 
are  no  grounds  for  discontinuing  the  practices  where 
they  are  currently  used. 


Health  Education  and  Counseling 

The  chronic  degenerative  diseases  that  are  now  the 
leading  causes  of  death  in  the  United  States — heart 
disease,  cancer  and  stroke — are  related  to  risk  factors 
that  can  be  reduced  by  addressing  personal  behaviors. 
In  counseling  interventions,  the  patient  receives  life¬ 
style  counseling  related  to  altering  risk  factors.  Coun¬ 
seling  can  vary  from  simple  information  and  advice 
given  by  minimally  trained  personnel  to  multiple  tech¬ 
niques  used  by  both  physicians  and  non-physicians. 


Most  of  the  research  on  health  education  and  coun¬ 
seling  has  been  in  the  area  of  smoking  cessation  where 
methods  ranged  from  simple  brief  messages  from  phy¬ 
sicians  to  combinations  of  printed  materials,  video 
tapes  and  ongoing  counseling  with  follow-up  contact. 
The  studies  report  that  from  2  percent  to  10  percent 
of  the  participants  stopped  smoking,  although  some 
report  much  higher  numbers  immediately  following 
the  intervention.42 

With  a  large  body  of  evidence  linking  tobacco  use 
to  the  cardiovascular,  pulmonary  and  cancerous  con¬ 
ditions  associated  with  significant  morbidity  and  mor¬ 
tality,  the  public  health  impact  of  eliminating  this  risk 
factor  for  even  a  small  number  of  people  could  be  sig¬ 
nificant.  A  1  percent  reduction  in  the  number  of 
deaths  from  a  disease  that  accounts  for  100,000  deaths 
per  year  adds  many  more  years  of  healthy  life  than  a 
50  percent  reduction  in  deaths  from  a  disease  that 
causes  1,000  deaths  per  year. 


42  Aaron  R.  Folsom  and  Richard  H.  Grimm,  Jr.,  “Stop  Smoking  Advice 
by  Physicians:  A  Feasible  Approach?”  American  Journal  of  Public  Health,  77 
(7):  849-850;  U.S.  Preventive  Services,  Clinical  Preventive  Services,  193-197. 


77 


HEALTH  BENEFITS  FOR  TREATMENT  SERVICES 
FOR  SUBSTANCE  ABUSE  AND  MENTAL  ILLNESS 


Edward  Klebe  * 


In  response  to  your  request,  we  have  prepared  the 
following  memorandum  on  the  design  of  a  benefit 
package  for  substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treat¬ 
ment  services.  The  paper  begins  with  background  in¬ 
formation  on  the  populations  at  risk,  with  estimates  of 
the  numbers  of  persons  abusing  alcohol  and  illegal 
drugs  and  the  numbers  of  persons  with  mental  illness 
as  reported  by  the  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and  Mental 
Health  Administration  (ADAMHA)  of  the  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (HHS).  The 
opening  section  also  includes  estimates  of  the  costs  to 
society  of  substance  abuse  and  mental  illness,  as  re¬ 
ported  by  ADAMHA.  The  second  section  of  the 
report  describes  the  types  of  treatment  modalities  for 
substance  abuse  and  mental  illness  currently  in  use,  as 
well  as  the  results  of  research  into  the  effectiveness 
and  cost-effectiveness  of  the  various  treatment  modali¬ 
ties.  The  third  section  of  the  paper  describes  Federal 
programs  for  substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treat¬ 
ment  services,  under  the  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and 
Mental  Health  Block  Grant,  and  the  Department  of 
Veterans  Affairs  (VA).  The  fourth  section  describes 
existing  public  and  private  insurance  coverage  for 
substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treatment.  This 
part  includes  information  on  Medicare  and  Medicaid 
coverage  for  substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treat¬ 
ment  services,  as  well  as  State  laws  mandating  health 
insurance  coverage  for  such  treatment,  and  employer- 
based  health  insurance  coverage,  including  coverage 
under  the  Federal  Employee  Health  Benefits  Program 
(FEHB).  The  final  part  of  the  paper  discusses  issues  in 
considering  a  benefits  package  for  substance  abuse 
and  mental  health  treatment. 


*  Memorandum  prepared  by  Edward  Klebe,  Specialist  in  Social  Legisla¬ 
tion,  Education  and  Public  Welfare  Division,  Congressional  Research  Serv¬ 
ice,  January  26,  1990. 


BACKGROUND 

The  Population  at  Risk 

Substance  Abuse  Population — Estimates  of  the 
extent  of  drug  and  alcohol  abuse  in  the  United  States 
vary,  but  it  seems  clear  that  millions  of  persons  in  this 
country  abuse  such  substances  each  year  to  varying 
degrees.  In  addition,  although  substance  abuse  trends 
in  recent  years  appear  to  be  on  the  decline,  the  fact 
remains  that  a  significant  proportion  of  our  population 
are  using  illicit  drugs  and  alcohol  to  excess  and  make 
up  a  substantial  population  at  risk  for  treatment  and 
rehabilitation  services. 

ADAMHA  finances  and  publishes  several  national 
surveys  that  measure  the  extent  of  substance  abuse  in 
the  United  States.  The  1988  National  Household 
Survey  on  Drug  Abuse,  for  instance,  is  the  ninth  in  a 
series  of  national  surveys  first  carried  out  in  1971  to 
measure  the  prevalence  of  drug  use  among  the  Ameri¬ 
can  household  population  aged  12  and  over.  The  1988 
National  Household  Survey  found  that  7.3  percent  of 
the  household  population  age  12  and  over  (14.5  mil¬ 
lion  persons)  were  “current”  users  of  such  illicit  drugs 
as  marijuana,  cocaine,  and  others,  i.e.,  they  admitted 
to  using  such  drugs  in  the  30  days  before  the  survey 
was  conducted.  This  was  a  decrease  in  37  percent 
from  the  23  million  current  users  in  the  1985  study. 
Users  of  any  illicit  drug  “within  the  last  year”  de¬ 
clined  from  37  million  in  1985  to  28  million  in  1988 
(14.1  percent  of  the  population  group),  a  drop  of 
almost  25  percent.  The  number  of  “current”  users  of 
cocaine  fell  by  50  percent,  from  5.8  million  in  1985  to 
2.9  million  (1.5  percent  of  the  population  group)  in 
1988,  and  those  who  used  cocaine  “within  the  past 
year”  fell  by  a  third,  from  12  million  to  8  million  (4.1 
percent  of  the  population  group). 


79 


The  Household  Survey  reports  that  106  million  per¬ 
sons,  53.4  percent  of  the  household  population,  were 
current  drinkers  of  alcohol  in  1988,  down  from  113 
million  in  1985.  The  household  population  age  35  and 
over  is  the  largest  group  of  current  alcohol  users,  at 
nearly  57  million  (51.3  percent  of  the  group),  but  25.2 
percent  of  those  in  the  12-17  age  group  (5  million 
persons)  report  drinking  alcohol  beverages  in  the  30 
days  prior  to  the  survey. 1 

In  addition  to  the  information  on  alcohol  use  con¬ 
tained  in  the  Household  Survey,  the  National  Institute 
on  Alcohol  Abuse  and  Alcoholism  of  ADAMHA  es¬ 
timates  that  18  million  adults  18  years  old  and  older 
currently  experience  problems  as  a  result  of  alcohol 
use.  The  problems  may  include  such  symptoms  of  de¬ 
pendence  as  loss  of  memory,  inability  to  stop  drinking 
until  intoxication,  inability  to  cut  down  on  drinking, 
binge  drinking,  and  withdrawal  symptoms. 

ADAMHA  also  sponsors  a  nationwide  survey  of 
young  people  entitled  Monitoring  the  Future:  A  Con¬ 
tinuing  Study  of  the  Lifestyles  and  Values  of  Youth. 
Better  known  as  the  High  School  Senior  Survey,  it 
has  reported,  annually  since  1975,  on  the  drug  use  and 
related  attitudes  of  a  representative  national  sample  of 
high  school  seniors.  The  1988  High  School  Senior 
Survey  shows  decreases  in  alcohol  and  drug  use  simi¬ 
lar  to  those  reported  by  the  Household  Survey.  Use 
of  marijuana,  the  illicit  drug  most  frequently  used  by 
high  school  seniors,  has  declined  markedly  over  the 
past  decade.  In  1979,  half  of  all  seniors  reported  some 
marijuana  use  in  the  year  prior  to  the  survey;  in  1988, 
only  one-third  reported  such  use.  In  1979,  36.5  per¬ 
cent  of  all  high  school  seniors  reported  marijuana  use 
in  the  prior  30  days;  by  1988,  only  18  percent  re¬ 
ported  marijuana  use  in  the  previous  month.  Similar 
trends  were  reported  for  other  drug  use — use  of  co¬ 
caine  in  the  30  days  prior  to  the  survey  fell  from  a 
peak  of  6.7  percent  in  1985  to  3.4  percent  in  1988.  Use 
of  alcohol  also  declined  among  this  population,  al¬ 
though  alcohol  use  remains  high.  Nearly  64  percent 
of  the  class  of  1988  reported  using  alcohol  in  the  pre¬ 
vious  30  days;  34.7  percent  reported  having  five 
drinks  or  more  in  a  row  in  the  last  2  weeks  before  the 
survey.2 

These  surveys  have  certain  limitations  in  measuring 
national  alcohol  and  drug  use  in  that  they  leave  out 
populations  some  of  whom  could  represent  extensive 
drug  and  alcohol  use.  The  National  Household 


1  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  Institute  on 
Drug  Abuse,  of  the  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and  Mental  Health  Administra¬ 
tion.  National  Household  Survey  on  Drug  Abuse:  1988  Population  Estimates, 
1989. 

2  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse, 
and  Mental  Health  Administration,  Drug  Use,  Drinking,  and  Smoking:  Na¬ 
tional  Survey  Results  from  High  School.  College,  and  Young  Adults  Populations, 

1975-1988,  1989. 


Survey,  for  instance,  includes  no  information  on  alco¬ 
hol  and  drug  use  by  persons  not  living  in  households, 
such  as  the  homeless,  military  personnel  living  on 
base,  and  those  in  dormitories,  hospitals,  and  jails. 
The  High  School  Senior  Survey  includes  no  informa¬ 
tion  on  the  alcohol  and  drug  use  of  the  dropout  popu¬ 
lation  of  the  high  school  senior  age  group.  Despite 
these  limitations,  the  various  national  surveys  of  alco¬ 
hol  and  drug  use  are  helpful  in  examining  current 
trends  in  such  use. 

Mentally  Ill  Population — The  chronically  mentally 
ill  population  encompasses  persons  both  in  institutions 
and  in  the  community  who  suffer  certain  mental  or 
emotional  disorders  (organic  brain  syndrome,  schizo¬ 
phrenia,  recurrent  depressive  and  manic-depressive 
disorders,  paranoid  and  other  psychoses,  plus  other 
disorders  that  may  become  chronic)  that  erode  or  pre¬ 
vent  the  development  of  their  functional  capacities  in 
relation  to  such  primary  aspects  of  daily  life  as  per¬ 
sonal  hygiene  and  self-care,  self-direction,  interper¬ 
sonal  relationships,  social  transactions,  learning,  and 
recreation,  and  that  erode  or  prevent  the  development 
of  their  economic  self-sufficiency. 

In  addition  to  the  severely  or  chronically  mentally 
ill,  there  is  a  substantial  population  of  persons  who, 
from  time  to  time  during  their  lives,  suffer  from  less 
severe  mental  disorders  or  upsets  in  their  everyday 
lives.  While  the  diagnosis  for  such  disorders  may  not 
qualify  as  clinical  mental  illnesses,  they  may  cause  suf¬ 
ficient  upset  in  the  life  of  the  individual  to  require 
some  short-term  treatment  from  some  facet  of  the 
health  care  sector,  whether  in  the  form  of  psychiatric 
or  psychological  care,  marital  counseling,  or  other 
counseling. 

Opinions  vary  on  the  number  of  mentally  ill  per¬ 
sons  in  the  U.S.,  with  estimates  ranging  from  1  per¬ 
cent  to  5  percent  of  the  general  population  with 
severe  mental  disorders.  National  Institute  of  Mental 
Health  (NIMH)  estimates  that  the  number  of  chron¬ 
ically  mentally  ill  in  the  United  States  ranges  from  1.7 
million  to  2.2  million,  including  900,000  who  are  re¬ 
ceiving  residential  services  in  a  variety  of  institutional 
settings,  including  nursing  homes,  public  and  private 
mental  or  psychiatric  hospitals,  Department  of  Vet¬ 
eran  Affairs  facilities,  residential  treatment  centers,  or 
community  mental  health  centers.3  Less  information 
is  available  on  the  prevalence  of  less  severe  mental 
disorders.  ADAMHA  estimated  in  1980  that  10  to  15 
percent  of  the  adult  population  of  the  U.S.  suffered 
from  all  types  of  mental  disorders,  including  severe 


3  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  Institute  of 
Mental  Health,  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and  Mental  Health  Administration, 
Mental  Health,  United  States,  1987.  [Hereafter  cited  as  Mental  Health,  United 
States,  1987.] 


80 


and  chronic  disorders  such  as  depression  and  affective 
disorders,  schizophrenia,  alcohol  and  drug  problems, 
and  anxiety,  phobia,  and  other  neuroses. 


The  Cost  to  Society  of  Substance 
Abuse  and  Mental  Illness 

In  1981,  the  Research  Triangle  Institute  prepared  a 
report  for  ADAMHA  on  the  costs  to  U.S.  society  in 
1977  of  alcoholism,  drug  abuse,  and  mental  illness. 
The  report  divided  total  costs  to  society  between 
“core  costs”  and  “other  related  costs.”  “Core  costs” 
were  costs  that  are  borne  by  the  health  care  system  or 
are  indirectly  related  through  reduced  productivity  as 
a  result  of  premature  mortality  or  excessive  morbid¬ 
ity.  “Other  related  costs”  include  the  costs  of  social 
programs  other  than  health  programs,  in  addition  to 
accident  costs,  and  costs  of  incarceration. 

The  1981  report  estimated  that  the  combined  eco¬ 
nomic  costs  of  alcohol,  drug  abuse,  and  mental  illness 
in  1977  was  $106  billion — $49.4  billion  for  alcoholism, 
$16.4  billion  for  drug  abuse,  and  $40.3  billion  for 
mental  illness.  These  cost  estimates  were  updated  for 
1980  at  a  total  of  $190.7  billion — $89.5  billion  for  al¬ 
cohol  abuse,  $46.9  billion  for  drug  abuse,  and  $54.2 
for  mental  illness,  and  again  in  1983  at  a  total  of  $249 
billion — $116.7  billion  for  drug  abuse,  $59.7  billion  for 
drug  abuse,  and  $72.8  billion  for  mental  illness. 
ADAMHA  has  contracted  with  the  University  of 
California,  San  Francisco  to  prepare  new  estimates  of 
the  economic  costs  to  society  from  substance 
abuse  and  mental  illness;  the  results  are  expected 
momentarily. 


TREATMENT  FOR  SUBSTANCE 
ABUSE  AND  MENTAL  ILLNESS 

Substance  Abuse  Treatment 

Treatment  services  for  alcohol  and  drug  abuse  are 
provided  in  a  variety  of  settings  and  modalities.  Some 
forms  of  treatment  are  aimed  at  drug  abusers  only, 
such  as  in  the  case  of  methadone  maintenance  for 
heroin  addicts,  others  for  alcohol  abuse  only,  such  as 
treatment  involving  the  use  of  the  sensitizing  drug 
disulfiram  (Antabuse).  Aside  from  such  exceptions, 
however,  similar  modalities  of  treatment  are  used  for 
both  alcohol  or  drug  abuse,  and  often  in  the  same  set¬ 
ting.  Such  treatment  often  starts  with  a  short-term 
program  of  detoxification,  which  can  be  provided  on 
an  inpatient  basis  in  a  hospital  or  other  residential  fa¬ 
cility  or  in  an  outpatient  program.  Although  many 


substance  abusers  do  not  receive  any  treatment  serv¬ 
ices  beyond  it,  detoxification  is  not  a  treatment  for  the 
substance  abuse  dependence  as  such,  but  is  used,  most 
often  with  alcohol  abuse  and  heroin  addiction,  to 
clear  the  client’s  system  of  the  physical  remnants  of 
the  drug  or  alcohol.  For  those  who  choose  to  pro¬ 
ceed  to  further  care  following  detoxification,  a  variety 
of  program  modalities  are  available  to  prevent  relapse 
and  help  clients  remain  alcohol-  or  drug-free. 

Treatment  can  be  provided  on  an  inpatient  basis,  in 
such  settings  as  detoxification  and  rehabilitation  units 
in  general  hospitals,  treatment  units  in  public  and  pri¬ 
vate  psychiatric  hospitals,  and  free-standing  treatment 
facilities.  Substance  abuse  treatment  can  also  be  pro¬ 
vided  in  an  outpatient  setting,  in  the  office  of  a 
private  physician  or  other  treatment  professional,  in 
treatment  units  of  community  facilities  such  as  com¬ 
munity  mental  health  center  or  hospital,  or  in  free¬ 
standing  outpatient  substance  abuse  treatment 
facilities. 

Treatment  modalities  in  inpatient  and  outpatient  set¬ 
tings  include  medical  approaches,  psychological 
approaches,  and  social-cultural  approaches,  or  a  com¬ 
bination  of  them,  in  providing  care.  The  medical 
approach  uses  medications  such  as  antidepressants, 
sensitizing  agents  such  as  disulfiram,  and  other  medi¬ 
cations  to  assist  the  patient  in  remaining  drug-free. 
Psychological  approaches  to  treatment  use  aversion 
therapy  and  other  behavioral  and  nonbehavioral  tech¬ 
niques.  Social-cultural  approaches  to  treatment  focus 
on  changing  the  social  environment  in  which  the  drug 
or  alcohol  abuser  functions.  An  example  of  this  is 
the  approach  used  by  such  groups  as  Alcoholics 
Anonymous  and  Narcotics  Anonymous,  which  try  to 
establish  a  whole  new  culture  for  the  alcoholic  or 
drug  addict.  It  is  not  at  all  unusual  for  a  drug  or  alco¬ 
hol  abuser  to  go  through  many  different  types  and 
settings  of  treatment  before  achieving  long-term  suc¬ 
cess  in  becoming  alcohol-  or  drug-free. 

Most  treatment  for  drug  abuse  in  recent  years  has 
focused  on  three  different  modalities  of  treatment — 
methadone  maintenance  for  opiate  addiction,  and 
therapeutic  communities  and  outpatient  drug-free  pro¬ 
grams  for  all  types  of  drug  abuse.  Methadone  mainte¬ 
nance  is  a  treatment,  usually  outpatient,  designed  to 
help  persons  addicted  to  heroin  and  other  opium-de¬ 
rivative  drugs.  It  combines  the  daily  administration  of 
methadone,  a  synthetic  opiate  product  that  is  adminis¬ 
tered  orally  and  controls  the  craving  for  heroin  in  the 
addict,  with  intensive  counseling  and  other  social  and 
medical  services. 

The  residential  drug-free  program  approach,  in¬ 
cludes  the  therapeutic  community  approach,  the 


81 


model  for  which  was  the  Synanon  program  in  Cali¬ 
fornia  in  the  late  1950s.  Therapeutic  communities  are 
full-time,  drug-free  residential  programs  which  pro¬ 
vide  a  highly-structured,  nonpermissive  program  of 
treatment.  Therapy  in  a  therapeutic  community  is 
generally  a  long-term  proposition,  often  extending 
beyond  a  year  in  duration.  Treatment  features  peer 
support  and  confrontation,  individual  and  group  coun¬ 
seling,  and  educational  and  job  training  when 
appropriate. 

Outpatient  drug-free  programs  vary  widely  in  dura¬ 
tion,  goals,  and  content,  but  have  in  common  that 
they  do  not  use  medication  in  treatment,  they  use 
counseling  as  the  major  form  of  therapy,  and  as  out¬ 
patient  programs  they  allow  clients  to  live  at  home 
during  the  course  of  treatment.  These  outpatient  pro¬ 
grams  began  as  a  response  to  a  need  for  community- 
based  crisis  centers  for  addicts.  Many  outpatient 
programs  operate  largely  as  drop-in  “crisis”  centers, 
while  others  are  more  structured.  As  with  the  thera¬ 
peutic  community,  outpatient  drug-free  programs 
make  extensive  use  of  former  addicts  as  staff  coun¬ 
selors  and  therapists. 

The  National  Association  of  State  Alcohol  and 
Drug  Abuse  Directors  (NAS  AD  AD)  has  for  the  past 
3  years,  under  contract  to  the  National  Institute  on 
Alcohol  Abuse  and  Alcoholism  (NIAAA)  and  the 
National  Institute  on  Drug  Abuse  (NIDA)  of 
ADAMHA,  compiled  and  published  fiscal,  client,  and 
other  service  data  related  to  substance  abuse  treat¬ 
ment  activities  in  the  States.  These  data  apply  to  only 
those  treatment  units  and  programs  in  the  States  “that 
received  at  least  some  funds  administered  by  the  State 
Alcohol/Drug  Agency.” 

In  FY  1988,  the  most  recent  year  for  which  data 
are  published,  the  NASADAD  study  reported  on 
6,926  alcohol  and/or  drug  treatment  units  which  re¬ 
ceived  funds  administered  by  State  alcohol  and  drug 
abuse  agencies.  Of  the  total,  1,806  were  identified  as 
alcohol  units,  1,614  as  drug  units,  and  the  remaining 
3,506  as  combined  alcohol/drug  units.  These  units  in 
FY  1988  reported  1.2  million  admissions  for  alcohol¬ 
ism  and  alcohol  abuse  treatment  and  518,000  for  drug 
abuse  and  dependency  treatment. 

Of  the  admissions  for  alcoholism  and  alcohol  abuse 
treatment,  392,000  were  for  detoxification  (79,000  in  a 
hospital  setting  and  313,000  in  a  nonhospital  setting), 
182,000  were  for  longer  term  rehabilitation  or  residen¬ 
tial  care  (19,000  in  a  hospital  setting  and  163,000  in 
nonhospital  setting),  and  549,000  were  for  outpatient 
care  (33,000  in  a  hospital  setting  and  516,000  in  a 
nonhospital  setting).  Of  the  more  than  half  million  ad¬ 
missions  for  drug  treatment,  nearly  96  thousand  were 


for  detoxification  (13,000  in  a  hospital  setting,  47,000 
in  other  residential  settings,  and  36,000  in  an  outpa¬ 
tient  setting),  47,600  for  methadone  maintenance 
(nearly  46,000  in  an  outpatient  program  and  1,600  in  a 
residential  facility),  and  357,000  in  drug-free  programs 
(7,800  in  a  hospital  setting,  72,700  in  a  residential  pro¬ 
gram,  and  276,700  in  an  outpatient  program).4 


Mental  Health  Treatment 

Treatment  for  mental  illness  is  also  provided  in  a 
variety  of  settings,  both  inpatient  and  outpatient,  in¬ 
cluding  the  following: 

A  psychiatric  hospital  is  a  hospital  (public  or  pri¬ 
vate)  that  is  primarily  concerned  with  providing  in¬ 
patient  care  to  mentally  ill  persons. 

A  general  hospital  with  separate  psychiatric  service 
is  a  licensed  hospital  that  has  established  organiza¬ 
tionally  separate  psychiatric  units  with  assigned 
staff  for  inpatient  care  and/or  outpatient  care  and/ 
or  partial  hospitalization  to  provide  diagnosis,  eval¬ 
uation,  and/or  treatment  to  persons  admitted  with 
known  or  suspected  psychiatric  diagnoses.  If  inpa¬ 
tient  care  is  provided  in  the  separate  psychiatric 
service,  beds  are  set  up  and  staffed  specifically  for 
psychiatric  patients  in  a  separate  ward  or  unit. 
These  beds  may  be  located  in  a  separate  building, 
wing,  ward,  or  floor,  or  they  may  be  a  specific 
group  of  beds  physically  separated  from  regular  or 
surgical  beds. 

A  residential  treatment  center  (RTQ  for  emotionally 
disturbed  children  is  a  facility  that  is  designed  and 
operated  primarily  to  provide  mental  health  treat¬ 
ment  to  children  and  youth. 

An  outpatient  mental  health  clinic  is  a  facility  that 
provides  only  ambulatory  mental  health  services. 
The  medical  responsibility  for  all  patients/clients 
and/or  direction  of  the  mental  health  program  is 
generally  assumed  by  a  psychiatrist. 

A  mental  health  partial  care  organization  is  a  free¬ 
standing  organization  offering  primarily  day  or 
night  partial  care. 

A  multiservice  mental  health  care  organization  is  an 
organization  that  provides  outpatient  care  and  inpa¬ 
tient/residential  treatment  care  in  settings  that  are 
under  the  organization’s  direct  administrative  con- 


4  National  Association  of  State  Alcohol  and  Drug  Abuse  Directors,  Inc., 
State  Resources  and  Services  Related  to  Alcohol  and  Drug  Abuse  Problems, 
Fiscal  Year  1988  (August  1989). 


82 


trol.  A  community  mental  health  center  (CMHC) 
may  qualify  as  multiservice  mental  health  organiza¬ 
tions  for  the  purpose  of  this  survey,  if  not  part  of  a 
general  or  psychiatric  hospital. 

Mental  health  treatment  services  are  also  provided 
in  the  private  office  practices  of  psychiatrists,  psy¬ 
chologists,  and  other  providers,  and  general  hospitals 
that  have  no  separate  psychiatric  services,  but  admit 
psychiatric  patients  to  nonpsychiatric  units.  Clinical 
social  workers,  family  therapists,  marriage  counselors, 
and  other  counselors  also  provide  a  substantial 
amount  of  what  must  be  described  as  mental  health 
care,  particularly  to  those  suffering  from  less  severe 
mental  illnesses  or  the  everyday  problems  of  life.  In 
addition,  a  substantial  number  of  persons,  receive  care 
for  such  disorders  from  primary  care  physicians. 
Some  estimates,  in  fact,  indicate  that  a  majority  of  in¬ 
dividuals  seeking  care  for  a  mental  health  disorder  go 
to  primary  care  physicians  rather  than  to  mental 
health  specialists.  The  prevalence  of  mental  illness 
among  those  seeking  care  in  primary  medical  care 
settings  has  been  estimated  to  range  from  20  to  50 
percent.  In  any  case,  it  is  estimated  “that  millions  of 
individuals  depend  for  their  emotional  well-being 
upon  the  primary  care  physician’s  sensitivity  to  emo¬ 
tional  distress  and  willingness  to  accord  it  the  same 
clinical  significance  as  physical  symptomatology.”  5 

The  third  edition  of  Mental  Health,  United  States, 
published  in  1987  by  NIMH  provides  statistical  data 
on  mental  health  organizations  providing  care  in  the 
U.S.  and  the  numbers  of  patients  they  serve.  In  1984, 
according  to  this  survey,  there  were  280  State  and 
county  mental  hospitals,  221  private  psychiatric  hospi¬ 
tals,  1,347  general  hospitals  with  psychiatric  services, 
140  VA  medical  centers  providing  psychiatric  care, 
325  RTCs  for  emotionally  disturbed  children,  798 
freestanding  psychiatric  outpatient  clinics,  90  free¬ 
standing  psychiatric  partial  care  organizations,  and 
1,263  multiservice  mental  health  organizations. 

The  average  daily  inpatient  and  residential  treat¬ 
ment  census  for  these  facilities  in  the  U.S.  excluding 
territories  for  1983  was  224,169  patients.  Of  this  total, 
116,236  were  in  State  and  county  mental  hospitals, 
16,467  were  in  private  psychiatric  hospitals,  34,328 
were  in  general  hospital  psychiatric  services,  20,342 
were  in  VA  medical  centers,  15,826  were  in  RTCs  for 
children,  and  20,970  were  in  multiservice  mental 
health  organizations. 

The  survey  does  not  include  average  daily  census 
for  outpatient  and  partial  care  organizations,  but  does 

5  Herbert  C.  Schulberg,  and  Ronald  W.  Manderscheid,  "The  Changing 
Network  of  Mental  Health  Service  Delivery,”  [In]  The  Future  of  Mental 
Health  Services  Research,  NIMH,  1989,  20. 


include  information  on  additions  to  such  programs. 
Additions  refer  to  patients  admitted  or  readmitted  to 
such  settings  or  transferred  from  one  such  settings  to 
another  during  a  year.  Each  time  a  person  is  admitted 
or  readmitted  is  counted  separately,  so  there  is  some 
duplication  of  numbers,  but  the  information  is  helpful 
in  noting  where  outpatient  services  are  provided.  In 
1983,  in  the  U.S.  excluding  the  territories,  there  were 
nearly  2.7  million  outpatient  additions  for  treatment.6 


Existing  Knowledge  on  Effectiveness  and 
Cost-Effectiveness  of  Modalities  of  Treatment 

Findings  of  research  into  the  effectiveness  of  sub¬ 
stance  abuse  and  mental  health  treatment  can  be  de¬ 
scribed  as  inconclusive  at  best.  Treatment  research 
carried  out  over  the  past  two  decades  on  various 
treatment  settings  and  modalities  has  found  at  least 
limited  effectiveness  for  most  if  not  all  types  and  set¬ 
tings  of  treatment  for  alcohol  and  drug  abuse  and  for 
mental  illness.  Most  treatments,  apparently,  can  be 
shown  to  be  effective  in  detoxifying  and  preventing 
relapses  in  some  alcohol  and  drug  abusers  some  of 
the  time.  Similarly,  research  on  the  various  types  of 
treatment  of  mental  illness  has  demonstrated  limited 
success  with  many  patients  in  reducing  symptoms  and 
returning  the  patient  to  productive  life  in  the 
community. 

What  treatment  research  thus  far  has  been  unable  to 
do  is  to  prove  that  any  particular  form  of  treatment  is 
more  effective  than  another,  or  to  enable  us  to  predict 
the  most  appropriate  treatment  for  a  specific  patient 
at  any  particular  time. 

Effectiveness  of  Alcoholism  Treatment — In  1983,  the 
U.S.  Office  of  Technology  Assessment  (OTA)  pub¬ 
lished  a  report,  The  Effectiveness  and  Costs  of  Alcohol¬ 
ism  Treatment  (prepared  under  contract  by  Saxe  et  al, 
Boston  University)  which  focused  on  the  costs  of 
alcoholism  and  alcohol  abuse  to  the  health  care 
system  and  to  society  in  general.  The  OTA  report,  in 
assessing  the  effectiveness  and  cost-effectiveness  of 
the  various  treatment  settings  and  modalities  for  alco¬ 
holism  based  on  a  review  of  available  treatment  re¬ 
search,  concluded  that  “treatment  is  better  than  no 
treatment,  but  that  methodological  problems  render  it 
difficult  to  conclude  that  any  specific  treatment  is 
more  effective  than  any  other.”  The  report  found 
consensus  that  inpatient  treatment  is  far  more  ex¬ 
pensive  than  other  treatment  options,  but  found  no 
evidence  to  demonstrate  that  inpatient  care  for 
alcoholism  treatment  offered  greater  likelihood  of  suc- 


6  Mental  Health,  United  States,  1987. 


83 


cessful  treatment  than  outpatient  care.  In  assessing 
cost-effectiveness,  the  OTA  review  found  “some  evi¬ 
dence  to  support  the  hypothesis  that  alcoholism  treat¬ 
ment  is  cost-beneficial”  in  that  the  benefits  “seem  to 
be  in  excess  of  the  costs  of  providing  such  treatment.” 
The  review,  however,  concluded  that  it  was  difficult 
from  the  evidence  available  at  the  time  “to  determine 
the  relative  effectiveness  or  cost-effectiveness  of  inpa¬ 
tient  v.  outpatient  treatment.”  7 

The  1983  OTA  report  suggested  that  treatment  re¬ 
imbursement  strategies  that  encouraged  early  outpa¬ 
tient  treatment  and  continuing  aftercare  services  on  a 
outpatient  basis  would  lead  to  better  use  of  resources. 
The  report,  however,  did  not  recommend  curtailing 
the  use  of  hospital  programs  because  it  was  felt  that 
there  was  not  a  sufficient  supply  of  non-hospital  based 
treatment  programs  available  at  that  time. 

In  a  1988  study  updating  OTA’s  1983  review  and 
findings,  the  principal  author  states  that  in  not  making 
such  a  recommendation,  the  “hope  was  that  encour¬ 
agement  of  such  alternatives  would  lead,  over  time,  to 
a  reduced  utilization  of  hospitals.”  The  1988  study 
concluded  that  the  hoped-for  reduction  in  the  use  of 
hospital-based  treatment  programs  had  not  occurred; 
that,  in  fact,  there  had  been  an  increase  in  the  use  of 
such  treatment.  (Between  1980  and  1986,  the  number 
of  hospital-based  inpatient  addiction  treatment  pro¬ 
grams  more  than  doubled,  from  506  to  1,039,  while 
outpatient  programs  increased  only  13  percent,  from 
1,182  to  1,342.8)  Further,  the  1988  review  confirmed 
the  findings  of  the  earlier  report — that  both  inpatient 
and  outpatient  treatment  have  demonstrable  effective¬ 
ness,  but  that  there  is  “no  evidence  to  suggest  that  in¬ 
patient  treatment  is  better  than  outpatient  treatment” 
and  that  there  is  a  growing  body  of  evidence  to  in¬ 
dicate  that  “relapse  rates  and  other  outcomes  are  no 
different  as  a  result  of  inpatient  v.  outpatient.”  It  con¬ 
cludes  that  “these  findings  have  remained  consistent 
across  a  variety  of  different  approaches  to  treatment 
and  across  a  diversity  of  populations.  There  remains 
little  convincing  evidence  in  favor  of  inpatient  treat¬ 
ment  or  lengthy  and  intensive  treatment.”  And  be¬ 
cause  inpatient  treatment  programs  are  consistently 
more  expensive  than  outpatient  programs,  the  1988 
study  further  concludes  is  that  “the  clear  implication 
of  currently  available  data  is  that  outpatient  care  is 
not  only  effective,  but  far  more  cost-effective  than  in¬ 
patient  care.”  9 


7  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  The  Effectiveness  and  Costs  of  Alcohol¬ 
ism  Treatment,  March  1983. 

8  Paul  Cotton,  “Detox  Programs  Called  ‘Wasteful’.”  Medical  World  News, 
(December  26,  1988),  53. 

9  Leonard  Saxe  and  Lisa  Goodman,  The  Effectiveness  of  Outpatient  v.  Inpa¬ 

tient  Treatment:  Updating  the  OTA  Report,  Working  Paper,  Bigel  Institute  for 

Health  Policy,  Brandeis  University,  5.  The  preceding  paragraphs  use  this 
paper  as  source. 


Effectiveness  of  Drug  Abuse  Treatment — Most  re¬ 
search  on  drug  abuse  treatment  until  recently  has  fo¬ 
cused  on  treatment  for  heroin  addiction.  Much  of  this 
research,  on  methadone  maintenance  programs  and 
early  therapeutic  community  programs  such  as 
Synanon,  reported  success  in  helping  addicts  to 
achieve  abstinence  from  heroin.  There  was  skepticism 
about  such  reports  of  success,  due  to  flaws  in  much  of 
the  research,  such  as  the  lack  of  control  groups. 

In  1969,  the  first  national  comprehensive  study  of 
drug  abuse  treatment  effectiveness  was  initiated  as  the 
Drug  Abuse  Reporting  Program  (DARP).  This  study 
looked  at  four  major  treatment  modalities — metha¬ 
done  maintenance,  therapeutic  communities,  outpa¬ 
tient  drug-free  programs,  and  detoxification.  The 
major  conclusion  of  the  DARP  research  was  that  the 
most  favorable  results  in  terms  of  abstinence  or  re¬ 
duced  drug  use  and  reductions  in  criminal  activity 
were  produced  by  treatment  in  the  three  major  mo¬ 
dalities,  but  not  by  detoxification  only.  All  three  pro¬ 
duced  similar  positive  outcomes.  The  DARP  study 
appeared  to  show  that  length  of  treatment  was  the 
most  effective  predictor  of  success  in  treatment,  what¬ 
ever  the  modality — the  clients  who  remained  longer 
in  treatment  had  the  most  favorable  outcomes  in 
terms  of  reduced  drug  use  and  criminal  activity.  The 
data  suggested  that  treatments  which  lasted  less  than 
90  days  appeared  to  be  of  limited  benefit,  regardless 
of  the  type  of  treatment  involved.  Beyond  90  days, 
treatment  outcomes  improved  in  direct  proportion  to 
the  length  of  time  spent  in  treatment.10 * * 

A  second  national  study  of  drug  abuse  treatment 
effectiveness  called  the  Treatment  Outcome  Prospec¬ 
tive  Study  (TOPS)  was  initiated  in  the  mid-1970s.  A 
multi-year  study  financed  by  NIDA,  the  project 
studied  10,000  drug  users  who  entered  treatment  in 
1979,  1980,  or  1981  in  37  selected  U.S.  drug  abuse 
treatment  programs  representing  three  major  treat¬ 
ment  modalities — methadone  maintenance,  therapeutic 
communities,  and  outpatient  drug-free  programs.  Pa¬ 
tients  who  served  as  study  subjects  were  followed 
from  the  time  they  entered  treatment,  through  five 
years  after  they  left  treatment. 

The  TOPS  study  addressed  the  impact  of  drug 
abuse  treatment  across  the  range  of  settings  and  for 
clients  with  varying  degrees  of  dependence  and  asso¬ 
ciated  programs.11  The  study  measured  the  actual  re- 


10  D.  Wayne  Simpson,  “National  Treatment  System  Evaluation  Based  on 
the  Drug  Abuse  Reporting  Program  (DARP)  Followup  Research,”  [In]  Drug 
Abuse  Treatment  Evaluation:  Strategies,  Progress,  and  Prospects,  Frank  M.  Tims 
and  Jacqueline  P.  Ludford,  eds.  Research  Monograph  51,  National  Institute 
on  Drug  Abuse,  DHHS  Publication  No.  84-1329. 

11  Robert  L.  Hubbard,  et  al.,  Drug  Abuse  Treatment:  A  National  Study  of 
Effectiveness,  1989.  This  section  of  the  paper  uses  this  book  as  source. 


84 


duction  of  drug  use  as  well  as  several  indicators  of 
the  patients’  success  in  building  productive  lives — de¬ 
crease  in  criminal  activity,  excessive  alcohol  use,  de¬ 
pression,  and  increase  in  employment.  Generally,  the 
study  found  that  all  of  the  modalities  of  treatment 
were  effective  in  reducing  drug  use  up  to  five  years 
after  a  single  course  of  treatment;  they  had  a  more 
limited  measure  of  success  in  helping  clients  build 
more  productive  lives. 

Basically,  the  TOPS  study  found  that  treatment  re¬ 
sulted  in  substantial  decreases  in  the  abuse  of  both 
opiate  drugs  such  as  heroin  and  other  drugs  as  well, 
but  that  the  goal  of  abstinence  was  achieved  by  a  rel¬ 
ative  few.  Pretreatment  levels  of  drug  use  declined 
dramatically  during  treatment,  increased  slightly  im¬ 
mediately  after  treatment  relative  to  in  treatment 
levels,  and  again  declined  in  subsequent  periods  after 
treatment.  The  prevalence  of  regular  cocaine  use  in¬ 
creased  slightly  three  to  five  years  after  treatment, 
while  use  of  most  other  drugs  continued  to  decline. 
These  trends  for  use  held  for  all  three  treatment  mo¬ 
dalities.  Time  in  treatment,  as  in  the  DARP  study, 
was  among  the  most  important  predictors  of 
posttreatment  drug  abuse  for  all  types  of  drugs,  par¬ 
ticularly  for  heroin  abuse — the  longer  a  client  spent  in 
treatment,  the  better  the  chances  for  positive  out¬ 
comes.  In  contrast  to  the  DARP  study,  however,  the 
TOPS  study  found  the  time  in  treatment  necessary  for 
greater  success  was  relatively  long:  6  to  12  months. 
Time  in  treatment  was  a  less  successful  predictor  of 
reduced  posttreatment  drug  use  for  cocaine  abusers 
and  multiple  drug  abusers. 

The  TOPS  study  also  looked  at  the  cost-effective¬ 
ness  of  treatment  and  found  substantial  reductions  in 
crime-related  and  other  costs  to  the  Nation  of  drug 
abusers  as  a  result  of  treatment.  The  study  found  that 
the  investment  of  $5,000  for  a  year  of  outpatient  drug- 
free  or  methadone  treatment  or  $15,000  to  $20,000  a 
year  for  residents  of  therapeutic  communities — the 
average  annual  costs  of  treatments  in  the  study — pro¬ 
duced  benefits  that  far  outweighed  the  costs.  The  pre¬ 
vention  of  AIDS  through  reduction  of  intravenous 
drug  use  is  another  potential  cost-related  savings  re¬ 
sulting  from  drug  abuse  treatment.  The  study  con¬ 
cludes  that  the  reduction  in  crime-related  and  other 
costs  to  society  appears  to  be  at  least  as  large  as  the 
cost  of  providing  treatment  and  that  much  of  the  ex¬ 
penditure  is  recovered  during  the  time  the  abuser  is  in 
treatment.  The  study  concludes  that  “.  .  .  in  that  sub¬ 
stantial  benefits  are  to  be  gained  during  the  treatment 
period  in  terms  of  reductions  in  criminal  activity  and 
associated  costs  to  the  nation,  long-term  drug  abuse 
treatment  appears  to  be  an  effective  mechanism  to 
limit  the  burden  of  drug  abusers  on  the  nation.” 


The  TOPS  study  also  recommends  several  ways  in 
which  existing  treatment  efforts  could  be  substantially 
improved  through  increased  outreach  and  recruitment 
to  encourage  more  drug  abusers  into  treatment,  better 
patient  assessment  and  planning  to  ensure  that  drug 
abusers  receive  the  services  they  need,  improved 
counseling  and  increased  habilitation  and  rehabilita¬ 
tion  and  related  services,  and  increased  efforts  to 
ensure  that  clients  remain  in  treatment  for  the  appro¬ 
priate  length  of  time  to  improve  chances  of  success 
and  receive  adequate  transitional  and  aftercare  serv¬ 
ices  after  treatment  is  completed.  The  report  also  calls 
for  more  research  on  the  difficult  problems  of  match¬ 
ing  different  types  of  clients  with  the  particular  treat¬ 
ment  modalities  and  settings  that  are  most  appropriate 
for  those  clients.  The  question  of  what  treatment 
works  best  for  what  type  of  client  is  still  difficult  to 
answer  and  for  publicly-funded  treatment  programs 
can  be  a  crucial  issue  in  allocating  limited  resources. 

One  major  problem  that  some  researchers  have 
with  much  drug  abuse  treatment  research,  including 
the  DARP  and  TOPS  studies,  is  that  they  concentrate 
for  the  most  part  on  treatment  for  heroin  addiction. 
Little  is  known  as  yet  on  the  effectiveness  of  treat¬ 
ment  for  cocaine  abuse  and  polydrug  use,  which  are 
becoming  increasingly  dominant  among  drug  abusers 
in  our  society.  TOPS  study  results  that  showed  in¬ 
creased  use  of  cocaine  after  treatment  demonstrate  the 
difficulty  of  successfully  treating  addiction  to  this 
drug. 

Effectiveness  of  Treatment  for  Mental  Illness — The 
NIMH  in  1989  published  a  monograph  of  papers  from 
a  1987  conference  on  the  Future  of  Mental  Health 
Services  Research.  One  of  the  papers  included  in  the 
monograph  reviews  research  over  the  past  two  dec¬ 
ades  into  the  effectiveness  of  services  for  the  severely 
mentally  ill.12  This  review  classifies  services  effec¬ 
tiveness  research  that  address  similar  issues  or  inter¬ 
ventions  about  the  following  groups  of  treatments  and 
treatment  settings:  inpatient  milieu,13  length  of  hospi¬ 
tal  stay  and  early  discharge,  alternatives  to  hospital 
admission,  and  aftercare  following  an  acute  episode. 

Hargreaves  and  Shumway’s  review  of  research  into 
the  use  of  milieu  therapies  found  mixed  results — little 
benefit  with  chronically  ill  schizophrenic  patients 


12  William  A.  Hargreaves,  and  Martha  Shumway,  “Effectiveness  of  Serv¬ 
ices  for  the  Severely  Mentally  Ill,”  in  The  Future  of  Mental  Health  Services, 
Carl  A.  Taube,  David  Mechanic,  and  Ann  A.  Hoffman,  eds.,  National  Insti¬ 
tute  of  Mental  Health,  DHHS  Publication  No.  (ADM)  89-1600,  1989.  The 
following  section  of  the  paper  uses  this  article  as  source. 

13  Milieu  therapy  is  defined  as  a  “socioenvironmmental  therapy  in  which 
the  attitudes  and  behavior  of  a  treatment  program  and  the  activities  pre¬ 
scribed  for  the  patient  are  determined  by  the  patient’s  emotional  and  interper¬ 
sonal  needs.”  The  therapy  “has  particular  meaning  where  functional  behavior 
and  activities  are  modeled  in  psychiatric  settings,”  Lee  Hyde,  The  McGraw- 
Hill  Essential  Dictionary  of  Health  Care,  1988,  301. 


85 


treated  in  nonintensive  milieus  in  one  study,  but  in 
other  studies,  apparent  benefits  from  intensive  milieu 
therapy  with  nonchronic  schizophrenic  patients. 
Other  studies  found  varying  levels  of  effectiveness 
from  different  forms  of  milieu  therapy  with  patient 
groups  in  a  variety  of  settings. 

Studies  on  the  impact  of  length  of  hospital  stay 
and  early  discharge  on  patient  outcomes  are  in  effect 
studies  on  the  effectiveness  of  different  forms  of  de¬ 
institutionalization.  One  such  study  which  followed 
patients  who  had  spent  varying  lengths  of  time  in  in¬ 
patient  treatment  before  discharge  to  aftercare  in  the 
community  found  that  patients  who  were  discharged 
after  three  weeks  in  hospital  demonstrated  fewer 
symptoms  than  patients  who  had  been  hospitalized  for 
longer  periods  of  time  before  release.  However,  inten¬ 
sive  aftercare  apparently  reduced  symptom  levels  re¬ 
gardless  of  the  length  of  hospital  stay.  Hargreaves  and 
Shumway  conclude  that  the  data  suggest  that  clinical 
goals  can  usually  be  accomplished  “in  brief  inpatient 
stays  or  in  appropriately  staffed  residential  treatment 
settings  and  supportive  residences  combined  with  day 
treatment,  or  through  intensive  outpatient  case  man¬ 
agement.  In  a  community  lacking  adequate  capacity 
or  quality  in  such  facilities,  or  for  patients  who  have 
insurance  coverage  that  pays  for  inpatient  care  but 
not  an  alternative,”  they  go  on,  “the  clinician  may 
be  forced  to  substitute  inpatient  care,  but  these 
nonoptimal  circumstances  do  not  make  extended  inpa¬ 
tient  care  the  treatment  of  choice  in  principle.”  They 
also  found  that  studies  consistently  showed  that  early 
discharge  of  long-stay  patients  is  possible  if  suitable 
community  programs  exist.  Community  placement 
does  not  always  produce  improvement  in  psychiatric 
symptoms,  but  does  seem  associated  with  improved 
social  function  as  long  as  active  treatment  continues. 

Studies  of  alternatives  to  hospital  admission  look  at 
programs  that  substitute  other  residential  care,  day 
care,  or  alternatives  carried  out  entirely  in  the  com¬ 
munity  or  in  the  patient’s  home  in  an  attempt  to  avoid 
hospitalization  in  the  first  place.  The  authors  found 
that  the  studies  of  alternatives  to  hospital  treatment 
showed  good  consistency  in  their  results,  which  they 
found  remarkable  because  of  various  flaws  in  individ¬ 
ual  studies,  and  because  the  studies  examined  a  wide 
variety  of  treatments  in  different  settings  with  dispar¬ 
ate  patient  groups.  They  found  it  possible  to  conclude 
from  these  studies  that  “caring  for  severely  ill  psychi¬ 
atric  patients  in  ways  that  avoid  or  shorten  traditional 
hospital  treatment  is,  on  average,  at  least  equally  ef¬ 
fective  and  may  be  more  effective  than  standard  use 
of  hospital  care.  Well-organized  services  using  alter¬ 
natives  to  hospitalization  can  cost  less,  sometimes 
much  less,  without  incurring  offsetting  social  or  pri¬ 
vate  costs,  and  may  provide  greater  improvement  in 


symptoms  or  social  functioning.”  The  authors  do  cau¬ 
tion  that,  despite  the  positive  results  of  these  studies 
on  alternatives  to  hospital  admission,  they  may  focus 
too  much  on  crises  leading  to  hospital  admission. 
They  also  note  that  too  few  researchers  have  com¬ 
pared  different  alternatives  to  hospital  admission  or 
studied  community  settings  in  which  particular  mixes 
of  strategies  may  be  most  cost-effective. 

Studies  of  aftercare  following  hospitalization  looked 
at  a  progression  of  more  restrictive  to  less  restrictive 
modes  of  aftercare,  from  residential  settings  such  as 
community  lodges  and  halfway  houses,  to  day  treat¬ 
ment,  outpatient  treatment,  and  case  management.  As 
with  other  techniques,  the  results  of  the  studies  on 
these  alternatives  are  mixed.  Some  have  been  mod¬ 
estly  effective,  but  others  showed  disappointing  re¬ 
sults.  Despite  the  attention  that  case  management  is 
currently  receiving  in  community  mental  health  serv¬ 
ices,  Hargreaves  and  Shumway  found  little  research 
on  the  efficacy  of  the  concept.  They  found  that  sev¬ 
eral  demonstration  projects  seemed  to  show  evidence 
for  the  effectiveness  of  case  management,  but  con¬ 
cluded  that  project  design  limitations  restricted  their 
value.  Another  disappointing  study  found  that  ran¬ 
domly  assigned  case  managed  subjects,  compared  to  a 
control  group,  received  more  services,  cost  more  to 
maintain,  and  were  hospitalized  more  often  without 
showing  higher  scores  on  quality  of  life  measures. 

Hargreaves  and  Shumway  conclude  that  mental 
health  treatment  services  efficacy  research  has  barely 
begun  to  “to  identify  the  most  cost-effective  ways  to 
organize  entire  service  systems  for  this  target 
population.” 


CURRENT  PUBLIC  PROGRAMS  FOR 
SUBSTANCE  ABUSE  AND  MENTAL 
HEALTH  TREATMENT  AND  RELATED 
SERVICES 

Federal  Programs 

Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and  Mental  Health  Block 
Grant — The  Alcohol,  Drug  Abuse,  and  Mental  Health 
Services  (ADMS)  Block  Grant,  authorized  under  P.L. 
97-35,  the  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of 
1981,  authorizes  grants  to  States  for  alcohol  and  drug 
prevention,  treatment,  and  rehabilitation  programs; 
and  for  grants  to  community  mental  health  centers 
(CMHC)  for  the  provision  of  mental  health  services, 
including  services  for  the  chronically  mentally  ill,  se¬ 
verely  mentally  disturbed  children  and  adolescents, 


86 


mentally  ill  elderly  individuals,  and  other  underserved 
populations. 

The  original  formula  for  the  block  grant  resulted  in 
national  allocations  for  substance  abuse  and  mental 
health  programs  which  were  approximately  equal  to 
each  other,  although  the  proportions  of  allocations 
varied  from  State  to  State.  The  authority  for  the 
ADMS  block  grant  has  been  amended  several  times, 
most  recently  by  the  1988  Anti-Drug  Abuse  Act,  P.L. 
100-690.  Under  the  revised  block  grant  authority,  ap¬ 
proximately  two-thirds  of  the  appropriation  nation¬ 
wide  is  allocated  for  substance  abuse  programs  and 
one-third  for  mental  health  services  activities.  In  FY 
1988,  according  to  NASADAD,  a  total  of  4,786  alco¬ 
hol  and/or  drug  treatment  units  received  block  grant 
funds  from  their  States.  These  treatment  units,  which 
also  receive  financial  support  from  other  sources  such 
as  State,  county,  and  other  local  agencies,  and  from 
other  sources  such  as  client  fees  and  private  health  in¬ 
surance,  admitted  nearly  1.2  million  clients  for  treat¬ 
ment  during  that  year. 

The  total  FY  1989  appropriation  for  the  ADMS 
block  grant  was  $805.6  million,  from  an  authorization 
level  for  the  year  of  $1.5  billion.  In  FY  1990,  approxi¬ 
mately  $1.1  billion  will  be  available  for  allocation 
among  the  States,  an  estimated  $237.6  million  for 
mental  health  activities  and  $895.6  million  for  sub¬ 
stance  abuse  activities. 

Department  of  Veterans  Affairs — The  VA  operates 
an  extensive  network  of  mental  health  and  substance 
abuse  treatment  programs  within  its  medical  centers 
and  outpatient  clinics  and  related  facilities.  In  FY 
1988,  over  50,000  veterans  were  treated  in  these  facili¬ 
ties  for  identified  drug  abuse  problems,  over  200,000 
were  treated  for  alcohol  abuse  problems,  and  over 
214,000  were  treated  for  mental  health  problems.  The 
VA  in  FY  1988  operated  56  drug  treatment  inpatient 
programs  with  965  beds,  66  drug  treatment  outpatient 
programs,  and  35  methadone  maintenance  programs. 
For  alcohol  abuse  treatment,  it  operated  128  inpatient 
programs  with  3,500  beds  and  139  outpatient  treat¬ 
ment  programs.  For  mental  health  treatment,  the  VA 
operated  22,169  psychiatric  beds  in  its  various  facili¬ 
ties  in  FY  1988. 


EXISTING  COVERAGE  FOR  SUBSTANCE 
ABUSE  AND  MENTAL  HEALTH 
TREATMENT  UNDER  PUBLIC  AND 
PRIVATE  HEALTH  CARE  FINANCING 
PROGRAMS 

Public  Health  Care  Financing 

Medicare — Medicare  provides  limited  services  for 
the  mentally  ill  and  for  substance  abusers  over  the  age 
of  65,  and  for  those  who  have  been  on  SSDI  for  at 
least  24  months.  Medicare  services  are  primarily  lim¬ 
ited  to  inpatient  services,  reimbursed  under  part  A  of 
Medicare.  Medicare  does  not  provide  a  specific  bene¬ 
fit  for  treatment  of  alcoholism  or  drug  abuse,  but 
services  are  covered  which  are  medically  necessary 
and  available  in  a  covered  setting.  Coverage  for  such 
treatment  is  available  in  both  general  and  specialty 
hospitals,  such  as  psychiatric  hospitals.  Medicare  pays 
for  treatment  in  short-term  acute  care  hospitals  for 
mental  health  or  substance  abuse  services  under  its 
prospective  payment  system  (PPS),  while  psychiatric 
hospitals  and  qualified  distinct  part  psychiatric  units  in 
general  hospitals  are  exempted  from  PPS  and  con¬ 
tinue  to  be  reimbursed  on  a  reasonable  cost  basis 
subject  to  annual  rate  of  increase  limits.  Medicare 
coverage  of  inpatient  care  furnished  in  a  psychiatric 
hospital,  for  mental  health  or  substance  abuse  serv¬ 
ices,  is  limited  to  190  days  during  a  person’s  lifetime. 
In  FY  1985,  Medicare  part  A  benefits  for  mental 
health  services  totalled  $1.3  billion,  of  which  $252 
million  represented  payments  to  psychiatric  hospitals. 

Part  B  of  Medicare,  until  FY  1987,  recognized,  for 
purposes  of  reimbursement  for  outpatient  mental 
health  services,  a  maximum  of  62.5  percent  of  $500  of 
such  charges  in  a  year,  or  $312.50,  and  would  reim¬ 
burse  80  percent  of  this  amount,  or  $250  a  year. 
Under  OBRA87,  the  outpatient  reimbursement  limit 
was  increased.  For  each  year  after  FY  1988,  part  B 
would  recognize  the  lesser  of  $1,100  a  year  or  62.5 
percent  of  expenditures  during  that  year.  Under 
OBRA89,  the  outpatient  reimbursement  limit  of  $1100 
a  year  was  eliminated;  the  coverage  limit  of  62.5  per¬ 
cent  of  total  outpatient  expenditures  in  a  year  still  ap¬ 
plies,  again  with  the  beneficiary  responsible  for  20 
percent  of  that  total.  Thus,  Medicare  still  pays  50  per¬ 
cent  of  total  expenses  for  outpatient  mental  health 
services.  Originally,  coverage  for  mental  health  serv¬ 
ices  under  part  B  of  Medicare  was  limited  to  services 
provided  by  or  supervised  by  a  physician;  OBRA87 
included  reimbursement,  as  of  July  1,  1988,  for  ther¬ 
apy  provided  by  a  clinical  psychologist  in  a  rural 
health  clinic  or  community  mental  health  center. 
Under  OBRA89,  coverage  was  extended  to  services 


87 


of  clinical  psychologists  and  social  workers  without 
regard  to  location.  Under  accepted  medical  references 
that  have  classified  alcoholism  as  a  mental  disorder, 
the  limitations  that  apply  under  Medicare  to  mental 
health  services  have  been  applied  also  to  treatment 
for  alcoholism.  Such  restrictions  include  the  190  days 
limit  on  the  lifetime  number  of  days  of  coverage 
available  for  inpatient  care  in  a  psychiatric  institution, 
as  well  as  the  dollar  limit  on  reimbursement  of 
outpatient  treatment  services.  In  addition,  coverage  is 
permitted  only  for  care  that  represents  “active  treat¬ 
ment.”  In  FY  1985,  Part  B  expenditures  for  mental 
health  services  subject  to  the  limit  totalled  $180 
million. 

Medicaid — Medicaid  is  a  major  source  of  funding 
for  services  for  the  mentally  ill.  State  Medicaid  pro¬ 
grams,  may,  at  their  option,  cover  services  in  two 
types  of  institutional  mental  health  providers:  “institu¬ 
tions  for  mental  diseases,”  or  IMDs,  and  inpatient 
psychiatric  hospitals.  Services  in  IMDs  may  be  cov¬ 
ered  only  for  beneficiaries  aged  65  and  older,  while 
services  in  inpatient  psychiatric  hospitals  may  be  cov¬ 
ered  only  for  beneficiaries  under  age  21.  Beneficiaries 
who  are  under  21  at  the  time  they  enter  such  a  facil¬ 
ity  may  continue  receiving  care  until  they  reach  age 
22.  In  FY  1986,  an  estimated  $1.1  billion  in  Medicaid 
funds  was  spent  on  these  institutional  mental  health 
services  for  nearly  52.8  thousand  beneficiaries. 

Medicaid  beneficiaries  between  age  22  and  65  may 
receive  services  for  mental  illness  in  hospitals  and 
nursing  facilities  that  are  not  IMDs  or  psychiatric 
hospitals.  It  is  not  possible  to  provide  data  on  the 
extent  of  this  coverage  as  Medicaid  data  do  not  distin¬ 
guish  expenditures  for  treatment  for  mental  as  op¬ 
posed  to  physical  problems  by  providers  other  than 
mental  institutions. 

Medicaid  also  covers  mental  health  services  for  its 
beneficiary  population  in  a  variety  of  outpatient  set¬ 
tings.  Coverage  limits  for  such  services  vary  from 
State  to  State.  In  1984,  for  instance,  services  in  mental 
health  clinics  were  covered  by  44  States.  Clinic  pro¬ 
viders  in  those  States  may  include  State  or  county  fa¬ 
cilities,  some  of  them  also  funded  through  the  ADMS 
block  grant,  as  well  as  private  providers.  States  also 
cover  mental  health  services  furnished  in  hospital  out¬ 
patient  departments.  In  a  number  of  States,  outpatient 
mental  health  services  may  include  “partial  hospital¬ 
ization”  or  “psychiatric  day  care”  programs.  These 
provide  services  in  a  structured  setting  for  part  of  the 
day  for  patients  living  in  the  community.  Some  States 
cover  comparable  programs  furnished  by  mental 
health  clinics. 


In  most  States,  Medicaid  beneficiaries  may  obtain 
services  from  psychiatrists  under  the  same  rules  that 
apply  when  they  obtain  services  from  physicians  in 
other  specialties.  Beneficiaries  may  also  receive  some 
mental  health  care  from  physicians  who  are  not  psy¬ 
chiatrists.  For  reasons  relating  in  part  to  State  re¬ 
imbursement  and  coverage  policies,  however,  many 
psychiatrists  have  been  reluctant  to  participate  in  the 
program. 

Only  a  few  States  cover  the  services  of  other  types 
of  mental  health  professionals.  Clinical  psychologists 
were  covered  in  21  States  in  1984,  but  only  three  cov¬ 
ered  any  other  type  of  professional,  such  as  clinical 
social  workers  or  psychiatric  nurses.  Some  States  may 
pay  for  services  furnished  by  psychologists  or  other 
mental  health  professionals  if  they  are  providing  serv¬ 
ices  under  the  direct  supervision  of  a  physician,  either 
in  the  physician’s  office  or  in  a  clinic  setting. 

Some  States  also  cover  alcohol  and  drug  abuse 
treatment  services  in  their  Medicaid  programs.  A 
1984  State  survey  found  10  such  States,  including  7 
(Connecticut,  Florida,  Georgia,  Kentucky,  Louisiana, 
North  Carolina,  and  South  Dakota)  which  provided 
services  in  community  mental  health  centers  and/or 
clinics.  Three  other  States,  Washington,  Minnesota, 
and  Wisconsin  also  reimbursed  for  alcohol  and  drug 
abuse  treatment  services  under  the  following  catego¬ 
ries:  inpatient  hospital,  physician  services,  and  non¬ 
physician  services,  respectively. 


Private  Health  Insurance 

State  Laws  Mandating  Health  Insurance  Coverage 
for  Substance  Abuse  and  Mental  Illness — Because  of 
the  traditionally  limited  coverage  for  treatment  of 
substance  abuse  and  mental  illness  in  the  private  insur¬ 
ance  marketplace,  State  governments  in  recent  years 
have  been  asked  to  exercise  their  regulatory  authority 
over  the  insurance  industry  and  require  the  expansion 
of  such  benefits.  Starting  in  the  early  1970s,  a  number 
of  State  legislatures  began  enacting  legislation  to  re¬ 
quire  benefits  for  alcohol,  drug  abuse,  and  mental 
health  treatment  to  be  covered  by  health  insurance 
available  in  the  State.  Other  State  legislatures  enacted 
less  stringent  versions  of  such  legislation  to  require 
only  that  health  insurers  offer  such  benefits  to  the  pol¬ 
icyholder  at  his  option. 

A  1986  survey  of  State  laws  regulating  private 
health  insurance  benefits  for  mental  health  and 
substance  abuse  found  that  14  States  had  statutes  man¬ 
dating  insurers  to  pay  for  mental  health  care  in  group 
insurance  policies,  some  of  these  States  also  man- 


88 


dated  coverage  in  individual  policies  as  well.  Twelve 
States  required  only  that  insurance  policies  “offer” 
such  coverage  at  the  policyholder’s  option.  Three 
States  had  laws  with  both  mandatory  and  optional 
provisions. 

The  1986  survey  found  35  States  which  had  passed 
legislation  requiring  insurers  either  to  provide  benefits 
for  alcoholism  and  drug  abuse  treatment  services  or 
to  offer  such  coverage.  Twenty-two  States  had  man¬ 
datory  coverage  laws.  These  coverage  laws  are  not 
uniform  and  mandate  a  wide  variety  of  benefits;  some 
States  combine  a  mandate  with  an  option,  such  as  in¬ 
patient  coverage  might  be  mandated,  while  outpatient 
coverage  might  only  be  offered.  Twenty-one  States 
chose  to  require  health  insurers  to  make  coverage 
available  for  substance  abuse  services.  Different  States 
mandate  coverage  of  varying  numbers  of  days  of 
inpatient  hospital  coverage  for  mental  illness  or  for 
substance  abuse  treatment — 30  to  70  days  a  year  for 
inpatient  mental  health  treatment,  and  from  3  to  21 
days  for  detoxification,  and  from  10  to  45  days  for  in¬ 
patient  substance  abuse  treatment.  States  also  mandate 
coverage  of  varying  numbers  of  outpatient  treatment 
days,  and  provide  for  different  limits  of  dollars  of 
coverage.14 

Private  Employer-Based  Health  Insurance  Cover¬ 
age — A  BLS  survey  of  employee  benefits  in  medium 
and  large  firms  in  1988  describes  mental  health  and 
substance  abuse  treatment  coverage  in  employee 
health  insurance  benefits.  The  survey  found  that 
mental  health  coverage,  although  available  to  nearly 
all  participants,  was  commonly  subject  to  special  limi¬ 
tations.  The  BLS  found  that  71  percent  of  participants 
in  plans  with  mental  health  benefits  had  more  restric¬ 
tive  hospital  coverage  for  mental  illness  than  for  other 
illnesses — up  from  61  percent  in  1986  and  43  percent 
in  1982.  Plans  generally  limited  the  duration  of  hospi¬ 
tal  stays,  often  to  30  or  60  days  per  year  for  mental 
illness,  compared  to  120,  365,  or  unlimited  days  for 
other  illnesses;  and  sometimes  they  imposed  a  sepa¬ 
rate,  lower,  maximum  on  covered  hospital  expenses, 
such  as  a  lifetime  maximum  of  $50,000  on  all  mental 
health  benefits. 

Plans  had  even  more  restrictive  coverage  for 
mental  health  care  outside  the  hospital  (psychiatric 
office  visits).  Such  special  limits  affected  95  percent  of 
participants  in  1988,  up  from  91  percent  in  1986  and 
84  percent  in  1982.  Outpatient  mental  health  care  also 
was  generally  covered  for  fewer  visits  per  year  than 
other  outpatient  services,  subject  to  special  maximum 


14  Intergovernmental  Health  Policy  Project,  State  Laws  Mandating  Private 
Health  Insurance  Benefits  for  Mental  Health,  Alcoholism,  and  Drug  Abuse, 
State  Health  Reports:  Mental  Health,  Alcoholism,  and  Drug  Abuse  (January 
1986). 


dollar  limits  on  annual  payments,  and  covered  at  a 
coinsurance  rate  of  50  percent  rather  than  the  80  per¬ 
cent  often  paid  by  plans  for  other  illnesses.  Also,  out¬ 
patient  mental  health  care  expenses  often  did  not 
count  toward  the  maximum  out-of-pocket  expense 
limitation,  and  the  reimbursement  for  these  expenses 
did  not  increase  to  100  percent  if  the  out-of-pocket 
expense  limitation  was  met,  as  with  other  services. 

The  BLS  survey  of  private  employee  benefits  in 
1988  found  that  alcohol  and  drug  abuse  treatment 
benefits  covered  80  and  74  percent  of  health  care 
participants,  respectively.  Treatment  covered  under 
substance  abuse  care  included  detoxification  and  reha¬ 
bilitation.  Ninety-five  percent  of  all  participants  with 
some  form  of  alcohol  abuse  benefits  were  covered  for 
inpatient  detoxification,  and  78  percent  for  inpatient 
rehabilitation.  As  detoxification  is  generally  consid¬ 
ered  medically  necessary,  nearly  all  plans  that  cover 
alcohol  abuse  treatment  benefits  cover  it.  There  is  a 
greater  tendency,  according  to  the  BLS  survey,  to  ex¬ 
clude  inpatient  rehabilitation,  since  it  requires  less 
constant,  immediate  care.  Outpatient  alcohol  abuse 
treatment,  generally  for  rehabilitation  services,  was 
available  to  84  percent  of  participants  with  alcoholism 
coverage.  Coverage  patterns  for  drug  abuse  benefits 
were  similar. 

As  with  mental  health  coverage,  plans  were  more 
restrictive  in  covering  substance  abuse  treatment  than 
other  illnesses.  It  was  more  likely,  however,  for  inpa¬ 
tient  detoxification  to  be  treated  the  same  as  other 
conditions  than  inpatient  rehabilitation  or  outpatient 
care.  Slightly  more  than  two-thirds  of  participants 
with  inpatient  alcohol  detoxification  care  had  their 
coverage  either  subject  to  separate  limitations  or  to 
the  same  limitations  as  for  mental  illnesses.  This  con¬ 
trasts  with  inpatient  rehabilitation  and  outpatient  care, 
where  about  four-fifths  of  participants  had  their  cov¬ 
erage  subject  to  separate  limitations  or  covered  the 
same  as  mental  health  care. 

Separate  limitations  for  substance  abuse  treatment 
most  commonly  included  restrictions  on  the  number 
of  days  of  inpatient  hospital  care  per  year,  the  number 
of  outpatient  visits  per  year,  and  maximum  dollar 
amounts  of  benefits  per  year  or  per  lifetime.  Limita¬ 
tions  on  days  and  dollars  were  often  combined  for 
alcohol  and  drug  abuse  care.  A  typical  limitation  on 
inpatient  care  was  30  days  a  year.  Similarly,  outpa¬ 
tient  care  might  be  restricted  to  20  or  30  visits  per 
year.15 


15  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics,  Employee  Benefits  in  Medium  and  Large 
Firms,  1988,  BLS  Bulletin  2336  (August  1989),  39  and  40. 


89 


Federal  Employees  Health  Benefits  Coverage — As 
with  health  insurance  available  to  State  and  local 
public  employees  and  to  workers  in  the  private  sector, 
substance  abuse  and  mental  health  benefits  available 
to  Federal  employees  under  the  Federal  Employees 
Health  Benefits  Program  are  generally  subject  to  spe¬ 
cial  limitations.  According  to  the  Checkbook's  Guide 
to  1990  Health  Insurance  Plans  for  Federal  Employees 
and  the  American  Psychiatric  Association's  Coverage 
Catalog,  virtually  all  plans  available  to  Federal  em¬ 
ployees  treat  inpatient  mental  health  care,  including, 
in  most  cases,  inpatient  treatment  for  alcoholism  or 
drug  abuse,  differently  from  other  hospital  care.  Cov¬ 
erage  limitations  include  fewer  days  of  hospitalization 
covered  in  full  and  a  lower  ceiling  on  covered  in¬ 
patient  expenses  than  for  other  illnesses.  Similar  limi¬ 
tations  apply  to  coverage  for  alcohol  and  drug  abuse 
inpatient  treatment  as  well  as  for  outpatient  services 
for  all  three  conditions. 1 6 


ISSUES  IN  CONSIDERING  A  BENEFIT 
PACKAGE  FOR  SUBSTANCE  ABUSE 
AND  MENTAL  HEALTH  SERVICES 

Mental  illness  and  substance  abuse  are  often  chronic 
disorders  requiring  periodic  use  of  treatment  services 
over  a  long  period  of  years.  At  the  present  time,  it  is 
clear  that  there  is  no  agreement  on  treatment  modali¬ 
ties  and  settings  for  these  disorders  and  little  uniform¬ 
ity  in  benefit  structures  among  third-party  payers  for 
substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treatment  services. 
Persons  suffering  from  these  disorders,  or  with  family 
members  suffering  from  such  disorders,  who  have 
access  through  their  employment  to  health  insurance 
are  more  likely,  when  given  a  choice,  to  select  insur¬ 
ance  coverage  with  the  most  comprehensive  benefit 
packages  for  such  services.  Attempts  by  insurers  to 
avoid  incurring  the  costs  of  covering  these  “high 
risk”  patients  have  led  to  the  benefits  limits  for  mental 
health  and  substance  abuse  treatment  coverage  that 
characterize  current  health  insurance  practice.  Some 
would  argue  that  establishing  a  basic  minimum  level 
of  coverage  for  mental  health  and  substance  abuse 
treatment  would  eliminate  the  need  for  the  limits  in 
coverage  that  currently  exist. 


16  Walton  Francis  and  editors  of  Washington  Consumers’  CHECKBOOK 
Magazine,  Checkbook's  Guide  to  Health  Insurance  Plans  for  Federal  Employees, 
1989;  and  Patrice  Scheidemandel,  compiler,  The  Coverage  Catalog,  American 
Psychiatric  Association,  1989. 


Rationale  for  Including  Substance  Abuse  and 
Mental  Health  Coverage  in  a  Benefit  Package 

Several  issues  need  to  be  discussed  in  considering 
the  design  of  a  uniform  health  insurance  benefit  for 
substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treatment  services, 
the  first  issue  being  whether  to  include  such  coverage 
at  all.  The  most  basic  argument  for  covering  such 
benefits  is  that  these  disorders  are  illnesses  for  which 
treatment  should  be  reimbursed  on  the  same  basis  as 
any  other  illness,  that  providing  benefits  to  reimburse 
the  treatment  of  substance  abuse  and  mental  illness 
constitutes  responsible  and  humane  social  policy  in  re¬ 
sponse  to  a  significant  public  need.  In  addition,  requir¬ 
ing  the  reimbursement  of  mental  health  and  substance 
abuse  treatment  at  a  level  more  comparable  to  that 
for  other  illnesses  could  help  to  remove  or  reduce  the 
stigma  associated  with  these  disorders  and  help  to 
improve  the  availability  of  and  accessibility  to  such 
services. 

Some  argue  that  the  treatment  of  substance  abuse 
and  mental  health  disorders  result,  in  the  long  term,  in 
reduction  in  treatment  for  other  health  disorders.  Ac¬ 
cording  to  this  argument,  the  net  cost  of  treatment  for 
substance  abuse  and  mental  health  care  would  thus  be 
reduced  by  the  extent  of  savings  in  general  medical 
care  utilization.  Reviews  of  research  on  the  signifi¬ 
cance  of  this  medical  cost  offset  have  found  that  such 
reductions  did  take  place.  One  study  reported  that  12 
of  1 3  studies  in  mental  health  care  found  reductions  of 
5  to  85  percent  in  medical  care  utilization  subsequent 
to  a  mental  health  intervention  and  reductions  of  26 
to  69  percent  in  medical  care  utilization  in  12  studies 
on  alcohol  abuse  treatment.17  Others  find  the  re¬ 
search  findings  on  the  medical  cost  offset  of  substance 
abuse  and  mental  health  treatment  unconvincing,  be¬ 
cause  of  a  variety  of  methodological  limitations  in  the 
research.18 

Increasing  insurance  coverage  for  substance  abuse 
and  mental  health  treatment  would  likely  result  in 
some  cost-shifting  from  the  public  to  the  private 
sector.  Mental  health  and  substance  abuse  treatment 
that  is  not  covered  by  private  health  insurance  has 
traditionally  been  supported  primarily  by  government 
funds.  The  Federal  Government  supports  such  care 
through  Medicare  and  Medicaid,  the  Department  of 
Veterans  Affairs,  and  the  ADMS  block  grant.  State 
and  local  governments  support  and  provide  care 
through  such  providers  as  public  general  and  psychi- 

17  Kenneth  R.  Jones,  and  Thomas  R.  Vischi,  “Impact  of  Alcohol,  Drug 
Abuse,  and  Mental  Health  Treatment  on  Medical  Care  Utilization:  A  Review 
of  the  Research  Literature,”  Medical  Care,  (17)  (December  1979). 

18  David  Mechanic,  “The  Evolution  of  Mental  Health  Services  and  Mental 
Health  Services  Research,”  in  The  Future  of  Mental  Health  Services  Research, 
NIMH,  1989,  5. 


90 


atric  hospitals  and  other  facilities.  It  can  be  argued 
that  requiring  increased  benefit  coverage  under  pri¬ 
vate  health  insurance  would  shift  some  of  these  costs 
to  the  private  sector,  reduce  the  burden  of  the  public 
sector,  and  generally  broaden  the  base  of  fmancial 
support  for  treatment  services. 

Some  who  oppose  a  required  benefit  for  substance 
abuse  and  mental  health  services  do  so  because  they 
feel  that  providers  of  such  services  often  reside  out¬ 
side  the  traditional  health  care  system  where  there  is 
little  quality  control  and  little  hard  evidence  that 
treatment  is  effective.  As  many  alcohol  and  drug 
abuse  treatment  programs  and  providers  exist  apart 
from  the  established  health  care  system,  this  argument 
goes,  there  is  little  assurance  that  the  quality  of  serv¬ 
ices  delivered  meets  established  levels  of  care  in  the 
traditional  health  delivery  system.  In  addition,  the  fact 
that  there  is  still  so  little  agreement  on  the  efficacy  of 
the  various  treatments  for  these  disorders  makes  some 
observers  reluctant  to  support  enhanced  insurance 
coverage. 

Others  may  oppose  including  the  benefit  in  a  pack¬ 
age  because  of  the  nature  of  these  disorders,  feeling 
that  the  majority  of  the  insured  population  do  not 
abuse  these  substances  and  should  not  be  forced  to 
pay  for  the  self-inflicted  problems  of  those  who 
choose  to  abuse  alcohol  and  drugs.  According  to  this 
argument,  most  members  of  the  population  use 
alcohol  and  prescription  drugs  moderately  and  re¬ 
sponsibly,  and  should  not  be  forced  to  pay  for  the 
consequences  of  alcohol  or  drug  abuse  by  a  minority 
of  persons  who  choose  to  act  irresponsibly.  Since 
alcoholism  and  drug  addiction  are  self-inflicted  prob¬ 
lems,  the  proper  response  to  such  abuse  is  for  the 
person  involved  to  moderate  such  behavior  and  stop 
the  abuse.  Insurance  premiums  collected  from  the  ma¬ 
jority  of  insurance  subscribers  should  not  have  to  be 
used  to  pay  for  the  self-inflicted  problems  of  a  few.19 


Design  of  a  Benefit  Package 

If  a  decision  is  made  to  include  substance  abuse  and 
mental  health  coverage  in  a  benefit  package,  further 
issues  arise  on  what  such  a  benefit  package  should  in¬ 
clude.  Should  mental  health  and  substance  abuse 
treatment  services  be  covered  on  the  same  basis  as 
other  illnesses,  or  should  there  be  limits  on  coverage 
for  such  care?  If  it  is  determined  that  substance  abuse 
and  mental  health  care  should  not  be  covered  on  the 
same  basis  as  other  care,  where  should  limits  be 


19  “Private  Health  Insurance  Coverage  for  Alcoholism  and  Drug  Depend¬ 
ency  Services:  State  Legislation  that  Mandates  Benefits  or  Requires  Insurers 
to  Offer  Such  Benefits  for  Purchase.1’  NASADAD  Alcohol  and  Drug  Abuse 
Report  (January’ /February'  1986). 


made — in  types  of  providers,  in  numbers  of  days  or 
visits  of  care  covered,  or  in  dollars  of  care  covered? 
What  kinds  of  cost-sharing  measures,  if  any,  should  be 
included?  What  kinds  of  cost  containment  measures 
should  be  included? 

There  is  evidence  that  the  existence  of  increased 
third-party  coverage  for  health  services  may  lead  to 
an  increase  in  unnecessary  and  excessive  use  of  such 
services,  a  phenomenon  known  as  moral  hazard. 
Some  people,  particularly  those  with  less  severe 
mental  health  disorders,  will  apparently  use  outpatient 
mental  health  services  if  covered  by  health  insurance 
that  they  would  not  have  chosen  to  use  if  they  had  to 
pay  the  full  cost  for  the  services  out  of  pocket.  This 
appears  to  be  the  case  for  outpatient  mental  health 
care  more  than  for  other  outpatient  health  care  serv¬ 
ices.  Some  argue  that  improving  mental  health  and 
substance  abuse  treatment  coverage  and  the  increased 
use  of  services  that  may  follow  because  of  moral 
hazard  will  increase  costs  substantially.  As  a  result,  in¬ 
surers  would  have  to  increase  premiums  to  pay  for 
the  care  to  such  an  extent  that  premiums  would  ap¬ 
proach  the  cost  of  care.  Research  seems  to  indicate 
that  use  of  ambulatory  mental  health  care  is  respon¬ 
sive  to  patient  cost  sharing.  Low  copayments  with  no 
utilization  limits  would  likely  produce  significantly 
higher  use  of  outpatient  services  and  high  benefit 
costs;  a  plan  with  a  high  level  of  patient  cost  sharing 
combined  with  a  catastrophic  ceiling  produces  lower 
use  of  services  and  lower  costs.20 

On  the  other  hand,  research  seems  to  indicate  that 
inpatient  mental  health  care  is  not  responsive  to  cost 
sharing,  but  does  respond  to  prospective  payment, 
length  of  stay  limits,  and  fixed  budget  reimburse¬ 
ment.21  A  1986  NIMH  report  suggesting  modifica¬ 
tions  to  Medicare’s  prospective  payment  system  to 
cover  inpatient  treatment  for  mental  illness  may  have 
value  in  designing  inpatient  coverage  under  a  man¬ 
dated  benefit.  This  report  recommended  classifying 
patients  by  diagnosis,  treatment,  and  age — “Three 
groups  of  mental  illness — psychoses,  organic  dis¬ 
orders,  all  others — could  each  be  subdivided  by 
intensity  of  treatment.  It  is  possible  to  differentiate  in¬ 
tensive  treatment  from  routine  treatment.  (Intensive 
treatment  is  typical  of  specialty  psychiatric  facilities, 
while  routine  treatment  is  typical  of  the  psychiatric 
treatment  provided  in  so-called  scatter  beds,  that  is, 
general  hospital  beds  not  located  in  a  psychiatric  unit. 
Further,  because  child  and  adolescent  patients  who 
receive  intensive  treatment  appear  to  stay  much 


20  Willard  G.  Manning,  Jr.,  et  al.,  “How  Cost  Sharing  Affects  the  Use  of 
Ambulatory  Mental  Health  Services,”  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Asso¬ 
ciation,  (256)  (October  10,  1986),  1933. 

21  Thomas  G.  McGuire,  “Financing  and  Reimbursement  for  Mental  Health 
Services,”  In  The  Future  of  Mental  Health  Services  Research,  NIMH,  1989. 


91 


28-861  -  90  -  4  :  QL  4 


longer  than  other  patients,  age  could  be  a  defining 
characteristic.”  22  ) 

Mental  health  and  substance  abuse  for  young 
people  may  be  a  matter  of  particular  concern  in  de¬ 
signing  a  benefit  package.  Research  appears  to  indi¬ 
cate  that  teenagers  account  for  a  larger  percentage  of 
the  costs  and  utilization  of  psychiatric  and  substance 
abuse  health  insurance  benefits  than  other  age  groups. 
A  recent  research  report  notes  that  much  of  the  care 
provided  adolescents  is  provided  in  hospitals,  the 
most  expensive  of  all  treatment  settings,  and  suggests 
that,  in  some  cases,  outpatient  or  residential  programs, 
especially  those  that  involve  the  entire  family,  are 
much  less  expensive  and  are  equally  or  more  effective 
for  treating  adolescent  mental  health  and/or  substance 
abuse  problems.23 

In  considering  coverage  for  treatment  of  mental  ill¬ 
ness  and  substance  abuse,  it  would  be  helpful  to  be 
able  to  take  into  account  what  is  known  about  the 
most  effective  ways  of  providing  such  care  in  de¬ 
signing  the  most  efficient  and  cost-effective  benefit 
package.  It  may  be,  however,  that  there  is  too  little 
definitive  information  available  about  the  relative 
effectiveness  of  various  treatment  modalities  and  set¬ 
tings  to  be  useful  in  designing  a  benefit  package.  The 
mental  health  treatment  research  review  cited  above 
appears  to  show,  for  instance,  that  a  combination  of 
short-  rather  than  long-term  inpatient  care  combined 
with  intensive  aftercare  services  in  the  community,  or 
alternative  treatment  in  the  community  that  avoids 
hospitalization  completely,  can  be  both  effective  and 
cost-effective  in  treating  severe  mental  illnesses. 


22  Antoinette  Gattozzi,  Prospective  Payment  of  Mental  Health  Care,  State 
Health  Reports:  Mental  Health,  Alcoholism,  and  Drug  Abuse  (April  1986). 

23  “Psychiatric/Substance  Abuse  Benefits  Costs,  Utilization  Are  Highest 
For  Adolescents,”  Spencer’s  Research  Reports  on  Employee  Benefits  (January 
1990). 


There  is  some  feeling  in  the  substance  abuse  treat¬ 
ment  community  that  the  28-day  inpatient  treatment 
model  that  appears  to  dominate  the  field,  particularly 
for  alcoholism  treatment,  may  not  always  be  the  most 
effective  or  cost-effective  method  of  treatment.  The 
alcoholism  treatment  research  cited  above  seems  to 
favor  a  short  course  of  inpatient  care  combined  with 
longer  term  outpatient  care  as  a  more  cost-effective 
form  of  treatment  than  longer  term  inpatient  care. 
Drug  abuse  treatment  research  has  found  that  the 
longer  the  course  of  treatment  the  greater  the  chances 
of  success.  It  is  difficult  to  imagine  an  employer  fa¬ 
voring  the  coverage,  under  an  employee  insurance 
package,  of  a  course  of  treatment  of  a  year  or  more  in 
a  therapeutic  community,  not  only  because  of  the  cost 
of  such  treatment,  but  because  of  the  additional  oper¬ 
ating  costs  and  inefficiencies  of  losing  an  employee 
for  a  year  or  more.  In  addition,  it  must  be  noted  that 
long-term  drug  abuse  treatment  research  has  concen¬ 
trated  on  treatment  for  heroin  addiction,  and  little  is 
known  as  yet  about  its  applicability  to  treatment  for 
cocaine  abuse. 

•  Those  without  health  insurance  coverage  for 
mental  health  care  or  treatment  for  substance  abuse 
have  traditionally  had  to  depend  on  publicly-financed 
care  in  State  and  locally-financed  facilities,  inpatient 
and  outpatient,  with  their  flaws  and  limitations.  With 
the  recidivism  and  repeated  need  for  treatment  that  is 
common  among  some  alcohol  and  drug  abusers,  as 
well  as  the  long-term,  often  life-long,  care  necessary 
for  many  chronically  mentally  ill  persons,  the  design 
of  any  mandated  benefit  package  would  probably 
need  to  retain  some  limits  in  the  courses  of  treatment 
for  substance  abuse  that  would  be  covered  before  a 
patient  were  forced  to  fall  back  on  the  public  sector 
for  care. 


92 


QUALITY  ASSURANCE:  A  COMPREHENSIVE,  NA¬ 
TIONAL  STRATEGY  FOR  HEALTH  CARE  IS 
NEEDED  * 


B-237200 
February  21,  1990 

The  Honorable  John  D.  Rockefeller  IV 
Chairman,  The  Pepper  Commission 
United  States  Bipartisan  Commission  on 

Comprehensive  Health  Care 

Dear  Mr.  Chairman: 

In  response  to  your  request  of  August  11,  1989,  we 
have  examined  the  issues  that  would  need  to  be  ad¬ 
dressed  in  ensuring  the  quality  of  health  care  under 
any  plan  to  expand  health  care  coverage  for  the  unin¬ 
sured.  We  have  assumed  that  the  current  system  of 
multiple  public  and  private  purchasers  of  health  care 
will  remain  in  place  for  at  least  the  immediate  future. 
In  addition,  we  have  examined  the  adequacy  of  the 
knowledge  base  for  structuring  such  quality  assurance 
activities.  However,  because  we  believe  that  most  of 
the  quality  assurance  issues  that  would  need  to  be  ad¬ 
dressed  are  generic,  much  of  this  report  does  not  dis¬ 
tinguish  between  quality  assurance  for  the  uninsured 
and  for  the  general  population. 

This  briefing  report  presents  the  results  of  our  work 
as  discussed  with  your  staff  on  January  23,  1990.  We 
begin  by  noting  that  quality  is  multidimensional  and 
that  we  have  focused  our  attention  on  the  appropri¬ 
ateness  of  care  and  the  technical  and  clinical  aspects 
of  quality.  We  also  note  that  health  care  system 
design  has  important  implications  for  quality,  and  we 
briefly  describe  the  various  levels  at  which  quality  as¬ 
surance  activities  are  currently  conducted.  We  con¬ 
clude  that  there  is  a  considerable  body  of  knowledge 
about,  and  experience  with,  the  organization  and  con¬ 
duct  of  quality  assessment  and  assurance  activities  and 

•  This  report  has  been  furnished  by  the  U.S.  General  Accounting  Office  at 
the  request  of  the  Chairman  of  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Compre¬ 
hensive  Health  Care.  It  is  reprinted  from  a  GAO  report  of  the  same  title. 
GAO/PEMD-90-14BR  (Washington,  D.C.:  February  21,  1990). 


a  growing  interest  in  improving  and  expanding  these 
activities  among  many  of  the  participants,  including 
the  medical  community,  consumers,  employers,  and 
purchasers  of  care. 

In  keeping  with  this  growing  interest,  we  suggest 
that  a  comprehensive,  national  strategy  for  assessing 
and  assuring  the  quality  of  health  care  is  needed.  We 
see  at  least  four  elements  as  essential  to  a  comprehen¬ 
sive  national  strategy:  (1)  national  practice  guidelines 
and  standards  of  care;  (2)  enhanced  data  to  support 
quality  assurance  activities;  (3)  improved  approaches 
to  quality  assessment  and  assurance  at  the  local  level; 
and  (4)  a  national  focus  for  developing,  implementing, 
and  monitoring  a  national  system.  The  reasons  we  see 
for  needing  a  comprehensive  national  approach  and  a 
brief  discussion  of  each  of  its  elements  are  contained 
in  section  2  of  this  report. 

Our  conclusions  are  based  primarily  on  the  studies 
of  health  care  quality  assessment  and  assurance  in  a 
number  of  settings  spanning  the  public  and  private 
sectors  that  we  have  conducted  over  the  past  few 
years.  We  have  also  incorporated  concepts  and  infor¬ 
mation  on  quality  assurance  contained  in  published 
sources,  including  the  Institute  of  Medicine’s  report 
entitled  Controlling  Costs  and  Changing  Patient  Care? 
and  the  Office  of  Technology  Assessment’s  report  en¬ 
titled  The  Quality  of  Medical  Care:  Information  for 
Consumers.  Finally,  we  convened  a  meeting  of  experts 
in  November  1989  for  the  explicit  purpose  of  explor¬ 
ing  these  issues  and  have  had  them  review  a  draft  of 
this  report.  (See  appendix  I.)  We  have  not  conducted 
a  comprehensive  review  and  analysis  of  existing  qual¬ 
ity  assurance  programs.  Any  references  in  this  report 
to  specific  quality  assurance  programs  are  examples 
used  to  illustrate  particular  points  and  do  not  neces¬ 
sarily  represent  the  “best”  programs  available. 

Our  work  was  performed  in  accordance  with  gen¬ 
erally  accepted  government  auditing  standards.  We 
have  incorporated  the  comments  of  our  experts  but 


93 


have  not  requested  comments  from  any  federal 
agency,  since  none  is  evaluated  in  this  work.  Unless 
you  publicly  announce  the  contents  of  this  report  ear¬ 
lier,  we  plan  no  further  distribution  until  30  days  from 
its  date.  We  will  then  make  copies  available  to  others 
upon  request.  If  you  have  any  questions  or  would  like 
additional  information,  please  call  me  at  (202)  275- 
1854  or  Mr.  Robert  York,  Acting  Director  of  Pro¬ 
gram  Evaluation  in  Human  Services  Areas,  at  (202) 
275-5885.  Other  major  contributors  to  this  report  are 
listed  in  appendix  II. 

Sincerely  yours, 

Eleanor  Chelimsky 
Assistant  Comptroller  General 


SECTION  1— QUALITY,  QUALITY 
ASSURANCE,  AND  THE 
HEALTH  CARE  SYSTEM 

In  this  section,  we  begin  with  an  overview  of  the 
concept  of  health  care  quality  and  how  we  use  it  in 
this  report.  We  draw  a  distinction  between  quality  as¬ 
sessment  and  quality  assurance,  which  is  important  for 
our  discussion  of  the  need  for  a  national,  comprehen¬ 
sive  quality  assurance  strategy  in  section  2.  We  note 
some  instances  in  which  the  design  and  operation  of 
the  health  care  system  itself  can  influence  quality 
quite  independently  of  any  formal  mechanism  for  re¬ 
viewing  the  quality  of  care.  Finally,  we  briefly  de¬ 
scribe  the  different  levels  in  the  health  care  system  at 
which  quality  issues  may  be  addressed. 


Quality  Is  Multidimensional 

The  quality  of  care  is  a  multidimensional  concept 
that  defies  simple  definition.  Quality  encompasses 
many  aspects  of  care  and  means  different  things  to 
different  people.  Patients,  health  care  providers,  and 
purchasers  may  have  different  notions  about  what 
constitutes  high-quality  care. 

•  To  patients,  “getting  better”  (that  is,  the  outcome 
of  care)  is  probably  the  primary  concern.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  having  access  to  care  that  is  affordable,  con¬ 
veniently  available,  and  provided  in  a  manner 
that  respects  their  concerns  and  preferences  is  im¬ 
portant.  The  responsiveness  of  the  delivery 
system  may  also  be  important — for  example, 
meeting  patients’  individual  needs  for  emergency 


care,  coordinating  services,  and  making  appropri¬ 
ate  referrals. 

•  Health  care  providers  may  emphasize  the  deci¬ 
sionmaking  process  that  underlies  diagnosis  and 
treatment,  the  clinical  content  of  care,  and  the 
technical  skill  with  which  it  is  rendered. 

•  Purchasers  may  place  greater  weight  on  ques¬ 
tions  of  cost-effectiveness,  including  the  need  for 
individual  diagnostic  and  therapeutic  services,  the 
appropriateness  of  the  setting  in  which  care  is  de¬ 
livered,  and  the  frequency,  timing,  and  duration 
of  services. 

All  these  views  of  quality  are  legitimate  and  im¬ 
portant.  However,  our  primary  focus  is  on  the  appro¬ 
priateness  of  medical  services  and  their  clinical  and 
technical  quality.  This  implies  a  concern  for  such 
issues  as  whether  necessary  care  was  provided, 
whether  the  outcome  was  acceptable,  whether  unnec¬ 
essary  services  were  provided,  and  whether  the  loca¬ 
tion  of  care  (that  is,  hospital,  nursing  home,  home, 
ambulatory  setting,  and  so  on)  was  consistent  with  the 
patient’s  needs. 

There  are  important .  reasons  for  this  focus.  First, 
and  perhaps  most  important,  providing  appropriate 
medical  care  that  is  effective  is  the  common  denomi¬ 
nator  of  the  preferences  of  all  three  groups.  Second, 
providing  improved  access  to  inappropriate  care  or 
poor-quality  care  is  not  likely  to  result  in  improved 
health  outcomes.  Third,  currently  available  strategies 
for  assessing  and  assuring  quality  are  targeted  espe¬ 
cially  to  the  appropriateness  of  care  and  to  technical 
aspects  of  quality.  As  a  result,  focusing  attention  in 
these  areas  offers  the  greatest  potential  for  near-term 
improvements  in  quality. 


Quality  Assessment  Should  Be  Distinguished 
From  Quality  Assurance 

It  is  important  to  distinguish  between  quality  assess¬ 
ment  and  quality  assurance.  Quality  assessment  in¬ 
volves  the  use  of  measures  of  quality,  based  on  either 
explicit  or  implicit  criteria,  to  assess  the  structure, 
process,  and  outcome  of  care  and  to  monitor  levels 
of  quality  over  time.  Quality  assurance  goes  beyond 
the  simple  assessment  of  quality  to  include  its  im¬ 
provement.  This  requires  identifying  and  confirming 
problems  in  the  quality  of  medical  care,  planning 
interventions  to  lessen  or  eliminate  the  problems, 
monitoring  the  effectiveness  of  the  interventions,  and 
instituting  additional  changes  and  monitoring  where 
warranted. 


94 


Quality  assessment  is  a  prerequisite  to  quality  assur¬ 
ance.  It  can  be  performed  by  an  external  assessor,  as¬ 
suming  that  the  information  necessary  to  assess  the 
medical  care  is  available  and  that  criteria  exist  for 
specifying  the  constituents  of  high  quality.  Under 
these  conditions,  potential  problems  with  the  quality 
of  care  can  be  easily  identified. 

Successful  quality  assurance  is  more  difficult,  since 
it  involves  either  preventing  poor-quality  care  from 
occurring  or  improving  levels  of  quality,  which  fre¬ 
quently  requires  behavior  change  on  the  part  of 
health  care  providers.  One  example  of  an  approach  to 
preventing  poor-quality  care  is  to  require  external  ap¬ 
proval  of  health  care  interventions  before  the  care  is 
provided.  This  approach  works  because  care  that  is 
not  approved  is  unlikely  to  be  reimbursed  and  this 
lessens  the  likelihood  that  the  presumably  inappropri¬ 
ate  care  will  be  provided. 

But  such  approaches  apply  to  individual  services  or 
procedures  patient  by  patient.  They  do  little  to  en¬ 
courage  providers  to  change  their  behavior  or  to 
create  an  environment  for  improving  general  levels  of 
quality  over  time.  Accomplishing  the  latter  is  gener¬ 
ally  assumed  to  require  the  commitment  and  involve¬ 
ment  of  the  health  care  providers  whose  care  is  under 
review.  This  involvement  is  particularly  important  in 
the  “gray”  areas  of  medicine  where  there  may  be  un¬ 
certainty  about  what  the  proper  course  of  treatment  is 
and  considerable  variation  among  physicians  in  how 
they  currently  care  for  patients.  If  physicians  and 
other  health  care  providers  collectively  examine  infor¬ 
mation  on  current  practice  patterns  and  determine  the 
reasons  for  variation  and  the  preferred  methods  of 
treatment,  the  potential  payoff  in  terms  of  improving 
overall  levels  of  quality  is  considerable. 

Quality  assurance  systems  typically  concentrate  on 
quality  assessment  and  on  the  identification  of  the  rel¬ 
atively  small  number  of  providers  whose  care  is  obvi¬ 
ously  unacceptable.  They  do  comparatively  little  in 
attempting  to  directly  improve  the  overall  levels  of 
quality  provided  by  the  majority  of  health  profes¬ 
sionals.  This  is  more  difficult  to  accomplish,  par¬ 
ticularly  if  imposed  on  health  professionals  from  the 
outside.  If  we  think  of  the  performance  of  health  care 
providers  in  terms  of  the  bell-shaped  curve  of  a 
normal  distribution,  the  challenge  is  to  devise  a  qual¬ 
ity  assurance  strategy  that  not  only  deals  appropri¬ 
ately  with  the  outliers  but  also  assists  in  moving  the 
entire  distribution  to  a  higher  level  of  quality. 


Health  Care  System  Design 
Influences  Quality 

Quality  is  potentially  influenced  by  almost  every 
aspect  of  the  design  and  performance  of  the  health 
care  system.  While  it  is  important  to  have  effective 
systems  for  monitoring  the  quality  of  care  after  it  is 
provided,  it  is  equally,  if  not  more,  important  to  try  to 
“build  it  in”  up  front.  In  particular,  having  access  to 
needed  services  is  a  prerequisite  for  receiving  services 
of  high  quality.  For  example,  if  a  program 

•  does  not  cover  a  range  of  preventive,  acute,  and 
continuing  services  that  are  needed  by  the  eligi¬ 
ble  population,  then  individuals  may  not  have 
access  to  needed  services; 

•  does  not  allow  adequate  reimbursement  for  cer¬ 
tain  services,  then  providers  may  decline  to  pro¬ 
vide  those  services  and  access  to  care  may  be 
impeded; 

•  has  inefficient  or  burdensome  administrative  re¬ 
quirements,  then  providers  may  choose  not  to 
accept  patients  covered  by  that  program,  again 
curtailing  access; 

•  has  limited  ability  to  direct  patients  to  high-qual¬ 
ity  providers  or  to  foster  quality  among  partici¬ 
pating  providers,  then  the  care  patients  receive 
may  be  of  varying  levels  of  quality. 

Systemic  issues  also  affect  quality.  For  example,  an 
oversupply  of  a  particular  medical  specialty  or  hospi¬ 
tal  service  in  a  given  area  may  mean  that  no  pro¬ 
vider  serves  enough  patients  to  develop  and  maintain 
necessary  skills  or  that  unnecessary  services  will  be 
provided  in  order  to  maintain  patient  volume.  Mal¬ 
practice  is  another  example.  The  fear  of  malpractice 
suits  may  cause  some  providers  to  give  care  that  is 
not  needed  and,  in  the  case  of  invasive  procedures, 
put  the  patient  at  unnecessary  risk.  High  malpractice 
premiums  and  judgments  may  contribute  to  increasing 
health  care  costs,  thereby  lessening  access  to  care  for 
some  people.  While  a  detailed  consideration  of  these 
issues  is  beyond  the  scope  of  this  report,  they  are 
nonetheless  important  and  deserve  attention.  Some  of 
them  are  being  addressed  in  other  studies  under  way 
at  GAO. 

Quality  Assessment  and  Assurance 
Occur  at  Many  Levels 

Throughout  the  nation,  many  existing  programs  of 
quality  assessment  and  assurance  can  provide  a  foun¬ 
dation  for  the  review  of  quality  under  new  initiatives 


95 


to  expand  health  care  coverage.  Purchasers  of  health 
care  have  instituted  quality  assessment  and  assurance 
programs  to  fulfill  their  fiduciary  or  public  account¬ 
ability  responsibilities  to  persons  whose  care  they  fi¬ 
nance.  The  Health  Care  Financing  Administration 
conducts  quality  assurance  activities  for  Medicare 
through  its  system  of  Peer  Review  Organizations 
(PROs)  for  primarily  hospital  and  some  ambulatory 
care  and  through  carriers  and  intermediaries  for 
nonhospital  care.  The  Health  Care  Financing  Admin¬ 
istration’s  annual  release  of  hospital  mortality  statistics 
and  information  on  the  quality  of  care  in  nursing 
homes  are  additional  examples  of  such  activities.  State 
Medicaid  agencies  have  requirements  to  monitor  the 
use  of  services  by  Medicaid  recipients;  this  is  accom¬ 
plished  in  a  number  of  states  through  contracts  with 
the  PROs.  Finally,  private  insurers  also  have  quality 
assessment  and  assurance  systems  that  resemble  those 
of  Medicare  and  Medicaid  but  also  vary,  depending 
on  the  needs  of  the  health  care  purchaser  and  reim¬ 
bursement  methods. 

The  approaches  above  to  quality  assurance  are 
sometimes  referred  to  as  “external,”  “regulatory,”  or 
“administrative”  quality  assurance.  Their  intent  is  to 
make  sure  that  the  care  for  which  payment  is  made  is 
appropriate.  There  is  an  emphasis  on  utilization  con¬ 
trol,  although  outcomes  and  other  aspects  of  quality 
may  also  be  examined,  as  exemplified  by  the  PRO’S 
use  of  generic  quality  screens.  The  reviews  of  care 
are  frequently  conducted  far  from  the  site  of  care. 
While  there  may  be  some  interaction  with,  and  feed¬ 
back  of  information  to,  the  providers  whose  care  is 
being  reviewed,  the  providers  themselves  are  not 
deeply  involved  in  the  process  of  review.  Quality  as¬ 
sessment  is  a  more  dominant  feature  of  these  activities 
than  quality  assurance. 

The  quality  of  care  may  also  be  monitored  and  in¬ 
fluenced  at  the  community  level  or  within  a  health 
service  area.  In  addition  to  the  review  of  the  quality 
or  appropriateness  of  individual  services,  quality-rele¬ 
vant  issues  to  be  addressed  include  whether  there  is 
an  appropriate  supply  and  distribution  of  health  care 
providers  of  various  types  and  specialties,  whether  the 
volume  of  services  provided  by  individual  providers 
is  high  enough  to  maintain  acceptable  skill  levels,  and 
whether  effective  mechanisms  exist  to  refer  patients  to 
needed  services,  coordinate  those  services,  and  place 
patients  at  appropriate  levels  of  care.  Because  of  the 
highly  individualized  and  dispersed  nature  of  health 
care,  many  communities  lack  a  structure  for  making 
such  judgments  and  exerting  leverage  on  the  health 
care  system.  However,  there  are  some  voluntary  ef¬ 
forts  to  develop  community-wide  programs.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  a  plan  called  Cleveland  Health  Quality  Choice, 
involving  the  physician,  hospital,  and  business  com¬ 


munities,  is  committed  to  evaluating  the  quality  of 
hospital  care  in  the  Cleveland  area  and  directing 
patients  to  hospitals  providing  high-quality  care.  In 
Minnesota,  the  Twin  Cities  Voluntary  Health  Care 
Information  Project  is  reviewing  quality  indicators  for 
hospitals  and  health  plans  in  hopes  of  assisting  health 
care  purchasers  and  providers  in  making  purchasing 
decisions. 

Finally,  many  health  care  institutions,  as  well  as  in¬ 
dividual  providers,  have  voluntarily  implemented 
their  own  internal  quality  assurance  programs,  reflect¬ 
ing  a  commitment  to  what  has  been  termed  “continu¬ 
ous  quality  improvement.”  The  Harvard  Community 
Health  Plan,  for  example,  has  developed  and  imple¬ 
mented  a  program  to  measure  quality  of  care  that 
generates  information  to  be  used  by  clinicians  and 
managers  for  identifying  the  reasons  for  problems  and 
instituting  changes  intended  to  improve  the  quality  of 
care.  The  Park  Nicollet  Medical  Center  in  Minne¬ 
apolis  has  developed  an  internal  system  for  monitor¬ 
ing  health  care  outcomes,  concentrating  initially  on 
patients  with  heart  disease  and  arthritis.  Individual 
hospitals  have  instituted  similar  approaches.  Small 
physician  practices,  lacking  an  organizational  struc¬ 
ture  and  patient  volume  to  warrant  a  structured, 
statistical  reporting  system,  have  nevertheless  imple¬ 
mented  ongoing  quality  reviews  through  such  ap¬ 
proaches  as  bringing  in  outside  peer  reviewers  to 
review  their  case  records  and  to  give  them  feedback 
on  strengths  and  areas  for  improvement.  The  key  to 
these  initiatives  is  that  they  are  voluntarily  and  inter¬ 
nally  generated.  The  health  professionals  involved  are 
committed  to  determining  the  levels  of  quality  of  the 
care  they  currently  provide,  identifying  opportunities 
for  improvement,  and  seeing  that  improvement  occurs 
and  quality  is  ensured. 

Some  health  care  analysts  have  viewed  these  vari¬ 
ous  levels  of  quality  assessment  and  assurance  as 
being  either  redundant  or  in  opposition  to  one  an¬ 
other,  if  not  actually  working  at  cross  purposes.  This 
is  particularly  true  when  the  paperwork  and  adminis¬ 
trative  requirements  of  external  reviews  are  burden¬ 
some  and  are  not  viewed  as  adequately  addressing 
and  resolving  true  quality  problems.  However,  there 
are  examples  of  situations  in  which  the  various  levels 
have  been  complementary  and  mutually  reinforcing. 
And,  in  some  instances,  the  presence  of  external 
review  has  provided  an  impetus  for  initiating  internal 
reviews. 

We  believe  that  the  important  thing  to  note  is  the 
considerable  body  of  knowledge  about,  and  experi¬ 
ence  with,  organizing  and  conducting  quality  assess¬ 
ment  and  assurance  activities.  There  also  appears  to 
be  growing  interest  in  improving  and  expanding  these 


96 


activities  among  many  of  the  participants,  including 
the  medical  community,  consumers,  employers,  and 
purchasers  of  care.  While  this  interest  could  be  mani¬ 
fested  in  an  increased  regulatory  burden,  it  could  also 
be  developed  into  a  more  balanced  system  of  quality 
assurance  that  uses  external  entities  to  monitor  overall 
levels  of  quality  of  care  and  identify  potential  prob¬ 
lems.  More  direct  interventions  could  be  limited  to 
instances  in  which  serious  quality  problems  are  con¬ 
firmed  or  when  a  provider’s  internal  quality  assurance 
mechanisms  appear  to  have  failed.  The  hope  that  a 
better  balance  between  internal  and  external  quality 
assurance  can  be  achieved  has  shaped  many  of  the  ob¬ 
servations  and  suggestions  in  the  next  section. 


SECTION  2— A  COMPREHENSIVE, 
NATIONAL  QUALITY  ASSURANCE 
STRATEGY  IS  NEEDED 

We  believe  that  a  comprehensive,  national  ap¬ 
proach  to  quality  assurance  is  required.  By  compre¬ 
hensive  and  national  we  mean  that,  regardless  of  the 
source  of  payment  or  individual  patients’  circum¬ 
stances,  similar  individuals  with  similar  medical  needs 
should  be  assured  of  receiving  the  same  type  of  ap¬ 
propriate,  high-quality  care.  This  implies  that  similar 
requirements  for  quality  assessment  and  assurance 
should  apply  across  all  purchasers,  providers,  and 
health  care  settings.  We  begin  this  section  by  discuss¬ 
ing  why  we  believe  that  a  comprehensive  national 
strategy  is  needed.  We  then  discuss  the  desirability  of 
blending  into  a  balanced  national  system  an  external 
quality  assurance  capability  together  with  a  commu¬ 
nity  of  health  care  providers  who  are  committed  to 
continuing  self-assessment  and  improvement. 

Finally,  we  describe  the  essential  elements  of  a 
comprehensive  national  strategy  and  discuss  what  is 
needed  to  move  from  the  current  quality  assurance 
environment  toward  a  comprehensive  national  strat¬ 
egy.  The  elements  that  we  see  as  essential  are  national 
practice  guidelines  and  standards  of  care,  enhanced 
data  to  support  quality  assurance  activities,  improved 
approaches  to  quality  assessment  and  assurance  at  the 
local  level,  and  a  national  focus  for  developing,  imple¬ 
menting,  and  monitoring  a  national  system.  Although 
components  of  each  element  exist  today,  it  will  take 
time  and  effort  to  develop,  implement,  and  refine  the 
type  of  comprehensive  national  strategy  we  envision. 
But  much  of  the  groundwork  has  already  been  laid. 


Reasons  for  a  Comprehensive 
National  Strategy 

We  believe  that  a  comprehensive  national  strategy 
is  important  for  several  reasons.  The  first  is  equity: 
the  intent  and  stringency  of  quality  assurance  require¬ 
ments  should  not  depend  on  whether  the  care  is  fi¬ 
nanced  by  Medicare,  Medicaid,  expanded  employer 
mandates,  or  some  other  arrangement  for  coverage 
expansion.  However,  some  variation  or  flexibility  in 
the  specific  review  approaches  is  probably  warranted 
to  account  for  differences  in  covered  populations, 
types  of  services,  or  reimbursement  methods.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  the  focus  of  review  for  a  population  consisting 
primarily  of  mothers  and  children  might  be  different 
than  that  for  predominantly  middle-aged  employed 
persons.  Similarly,  assessment  methods  for  persons  en¬ 
rolled  in  a  prepaid  group  practice  might  concentrate 
on  potential  quality  problems  associated  with 
underuse  of  services,  while  those  for  persons  whose 
care  is  reimbursed  on  a  fee-for-service  basis  might 
concentrate  on  the  potential  for  overuse.  Neverthe¬ 
less,  the  overall  intent  and  stringency  of  review  re¬ 
quirements  should  be  similar. 

Second,  health  considerations  dictate  a  comprehen¬ 
sive  approach.  Meeting  the  health  care  needs  of  indi¬ 
viduals  frequently  requires  providing  care  in  a  variety 
of  settings  (that  is,  hospitals,  physicians’  offices,  nurs¬ 
ing  homes,  home  health  agencies,  and  so  on)  over  an 
extended  period  of  time.  What  occurs  in  one  setting 
or  at  one  time  is  often  influenced  by  what  occurred  in 
a  different  setting  at  a  different  point  in  time.  Thus,  it 
is  important  to  be  able  to  track  the  contents,  appropri¬ 
ateness,  and  outcomes  of  care  for  an  episode  of  illness, 
regardless  of  when  and  where  the  care  was  provided 
or  who  paid  for  it.  Most  current  quality  assurance 
systems  do  not  have  this  capability. 

Finally,  certain  operational  aspects  of  quality  assess¬ 
ment  require  a  comprehensive  approach.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  many  judgments  about  quality  are  based  on 
patterns  of  care  rather  than  isolated  instances.  If  one 
were  to  examine  only  the  patients  cared  for  by  a 
single  provider  and  who  had  a  common  insurer  or 
payment  source,  the  number  of  patients  might  not 
be  sufficient  to  provide  an  accurate  assessment  of  that 
provider’s  performance.  However,  by  combining  in¬ 
formation  on  care  provided  by  a  single  provider 
regardless  of  the  source  of  payment,  more  stable  pro¬ 
files  of  care  can  be  generated,  permitting  more  defini¬ 
tive  quality  assessments. 


97 


The  Need  for  Balance 

In  general,  our  view  is  that  the  quality  of  care 
emerges  most  effectively  from  an  internal  commit¬ 
ment  by  providers  to  ongoing  self-assessment  and 
quality  improvement.  However,  an  internal  commit¬ 
ment  is  not  sufficient.  There  is  also  a  need  for  external 
entities  to  monitor  general  levels  of  quality,  to  iden¬ 
tify  areas  in  which  improvements  are  needed,  and  to 
use  appropriate  means  to  get  providers  to  change 
their  behavior  when  required. 

The  case  for  continuous  quality  improvement  has 
been  made  most  eloquently  by  Donald  Berwick  of  the 
Harvard  Community  Health  Plan: 

“Real  improvement  in  quality  depends  ...  on  understanding 
and  revising  the  production  processes  on  the  basis  of  data  about  the 
processes  themselves.  .  .  .  When  one  is  clear  and  constant  in  one’s 
purpose,  when  fear  does  not  control  the  atmosphere  (and  thus  the 
data),  when  learning  is  guided  by  accurate  information  and  sound 
rules  of  inference,  when  suppliers  of  services  remain  in  dialogue 
with  those  who  depend  on  them,  and  when  the  hearts  and  talents 
of  all  workers  are  enlisted  in  the  pursuit  of  better  ways,  the  poten¬ 
tial  for  improvement  in  quality  is  nearly  boundless.”  1 

However,  Berwick  also  acknowledges  the  need  for 
external  monitoring,  noting  that  “politically,  at  least, 
it  is  absolutely  necessary  for  regulators  to  continue  to 
ferret  out  the  truly  avaricious  and  dangerously 
incompetent.”  2 

We  also  believe  that  external  reviewers  have  legiti¬ 
mate  and  necessary  functions  to  serve.  The  primary 
function  is  overall  surveillance  and  monitoring  of  the 
health  care  system.  In  addition,  a  number  of  develop¬ 
mental  and  technical  assistance  roles  are  essential  to 
establishing  a  comprehensive,  national  quality  assur¬ 
ance  strategy.  They  include  assisting  providers  in  the 
development  of  quality  measurement  tools,  aggregat¬ 
ing  data  on  quality  centrally  to  help  providers  learn 
from  each  other,  providing  technical  support  and 
training  in  the  principles  of  quality  improvement, 
encouraging  and  funding  studies  designed  to  expand 
the  knowledge  base  on  medical  care  effectiveness,  and 
specifying  relevant  quality  review  criteria. 

In  order  to  establish  and  maintain  an  appropriate 
balance,  both  internal  and  external  quality  assurance 
workers  must  do  their  part.  External  reviewers  can 
adopt  attitudes  and  strategies  that  acknowledge  and 
encourage  the  efforts  of  individual  providers  to  ensure 
that  their  patients  receive  quality  care.  For  example, 
an  approach  that  focuses  on  developing  information 
on  variations  among  providers  in  treating  particular 
conditions  and  working  with  providers  to  reduce  that 


1  D.  Berwick,  “Sounding  Board:  Continuous  Improvement  as  an  Ideal  In 
Health  Care,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine,  320,  (1)  (1989):  54. 

2  Berwick,  54. 


variation  may  be  more  acceptable  and  effective  than 
labeling  aberrant  providers  as  “bad”  and  demanding 
that  they  change.  Providers  who  demonstrate  that 
their  behavior  consistently  conforms  to  established 
quality  standards  might  be  reviewed  less  frequently  or 
less  intensively.  Similarly,  such  providers  might  be 
given  an  advantage  as  purchasers  develop  contracts 
with  selected  provider  groups.  On  the  other  side,  it  is 
the  responsibility  of  providers  to  be  attentive  to  new 
information  on  health  care  effectiveness  as  it  becomes 
available  and  to  develop  and  maintain  programs  that 
demonstrably  lead  to  continuing  improvements  in 
quality. 

Elements  of  a  Comprehensive 
National  Strategy 

Practice  Guidelines  and  Standards — We  believe  that 
national,  publicly  available  practice  guidelines  and 
standards  are  an  essential  element  of  a  comprehensive 
quality  assurance  system.  We  use  the  term  “practice 
guidelines”  to  refer  to  guidelines  that  assist  in  deter¬ 
mining  how  diseases,  disorders,  and  other  health  con¬ 
ditions  can  most  effectively  be  prevented,  diagnosed, 
treated,  and  clinically  managed.  Nevertheless,  the  cir¬ 
cumstances  of  individual  patients  may  justify  devi¬ 
ations  from  practice  guidelines.  The  term  “standards” 
is  used  to  refer  to  a  variety  of  either  professionally  or 
statistically  derived  standards  of  quality,  performance 
measures,  and  medical  review  criteria  through  which 
health  care  providers  and  other  appropriate  entities 
may  assess  or  review  the  quality  of  health  care. 

The  difficulties  inherent  in  developing  such  practice 
guidelines  and  standards  should  not  be  understated. 
For  example,  it  is  important  to  base  guidelines  and 
standards  on  sound  scientific  evidence  about  the  effec¬ 
tiveness  of  medical  care  whenever  possible  and  to 
allow  more  flexibility  and  variation  in  medical  prac¬ 
tice  when  uncertainty  exists.  The  development  of 
practice  guidelines  and  standards  for  some  conditions 
and  procedures  is  feasible. 

However,  there  is  general  agreement  that  the 
knowledge  base  on  the  efficacy  and  effectiveness  of 
many  aspects  of  medical  care  is  weak  or  nonexistent. 
Here,  the  development  of  guidelines  and  standards 
will  require  additional  information  on  medical  care 
effectiveness.  A  mechanism  for  the  development  and 
updating  of  practice  guidelines  and  standards  is 
needed.  Other  difficulties  that  will  have  to  be  re¬ 
solved  include  specifying  appropriate  methods  for 
developing  and  reviewing  guidelines  and  standards, 
setting  priorities  for  which  guidelines  and  criteria  to 
develop  and  when  to  update  and  revise  existing 


98 


guidelines  and  standards,  and  pilot-testing,  evaluating, 
and  disseminating  the  guidelines  and  standards. 

In  addition,  simply  developing  the  guidelines  and 
making  them  public  will  not,  by  itself,  ensure  quality. 
For  example,  the  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  re¬ 
cently  published  a  study  about  the  effect  of  cesarean 
section  guidelines  on  the  use  of  cesarean  sections.3 
Despite  widespread  knowledge  and  endorsement  of 
the  guidelines  by  the  obstetricians  in  Ontario,  Canada, 
and  a  belief  that  they  had  reduced  their  use  of  cesar¬ 
ean  sections,  actual  rates  of  cesarean  section  changed 
very  little  after  the  introduction  of  the  guidelines. 
However,  the  Maine  Medical  Assessment  Foundation 
has  had  some  notable  successes  in  changing  physi¬ 
cians’  practice  patterns  with  a  combination  of  educa¬ 
tion  and  feedback  about  how  their  practice  patterns 
compare  to  those  of  their  peers. 

More  research  and  experimentation  is  needed  on 
the  effectiveness  of  alternative  strategies  for  making 
guidelines  available  to  physicians  and  encouraging 
them  to  accept  them  and  change  their  behavior  as 
needed.  And  the  guidelines  and  standards  will  have  to 
be  incorporated  into  effective  internal  and  external 
programs  for  assessing  and  assuring  quality  of  care. 

Finally,  there  has  been  considerable  discussion 
about  the  potential  for  the  use  of  practice  guidelines 
to  reduce  the  provision  of  inappropriate  or  unneces¬ 
sary  care,  thereby  reducing  health  care  expenditures 
and  possibly  saving  sufficient  money  to  pay  for  an  ex¬ 
pansion  of  coverage  to  persons  currently  uninsured. 
This  is  an  appealing  concept.  Partial  estimates  of  po¬ 
tential  savings  range  from  SI 39  million  in  Medicare 
Part  B  expenditures  if  guidelines  were  used  for  a  set 
of  just  eight  specific  procedures  to  about  $808  million 
if  practice  guidelines  for  the  same  procedures  were 
used  by  all  purchasers  of  care.  If,  in  addition  to  re¬ 
ductions  in  the  inappropriate  use  of  services,  one 
could  make  reductions  in  the  overall  intensity  of  serv¬ 
ices,  average  annual  savings  could  be  $22  billion.4 

However,  some  of  the  estimates  fail  to  account  for 
the  potential  cost  of  alternative  treatments  that  might 
be  provided  in  place  of  procedures  found  to  be  inap¬ 
propriate  and  the  likelihood  that  a  program  intended 
to  reduce  inappropriate  care  would  never  be  fully 
successful.  Some  fail  to  consider  the  possibility  that 
the  use  of  some  practice  guidelines  might  actually  in¬ 
crease  expenditures  over  the  long  run  by  increasing 
the  number  of  services  and  procedures  that  are  not 
now  provided  as  often  as  they  should  be.  For  these 

3  S.L.  Lomas,  et  al.,  “Do  Practice  Guidelines  Guide  Practice?"  New  Eng¬ 
land  Journal  of  Medicine,  321  (1989):  1306-1311. 

4  These  particular  estimates  were  published  in  a  technical  appendix  to  Na¬ 
tional  Leadership  Commission  on  Health  Care,  For  the  Health  of  a  Nation 
(Ann  Arbor,  Mich.:  Health  Administration  Press,  1989). 


and  other  reasons,  it  is  unclear  whether  potential  cost 
savings  might  be  obtained  by  using  practice 
guidelines. 

Despite  the  difficulties  involved  in  developing  and 
using  national  guidelines  and  standards,  the  need  for 
them  has  been  recognized.  The  Council  of  Medical 
Specialty  Societies,  the  American  Medical  Associa¬ 
tion,  and  other  provider  organizations  have  publicly 
endorsed  the  need  for  the  medical  profession  to  step 
forward  and  take  the  lead  in  developing  guidelines 
and  standards.  The  National  Leadership  Commission, 
the  Physician  Payment  Review  Commission,  the  Insti¬ 
tute  of  Medicine,  and  others  have  recommended  that 
effectiveness  research  and  guideline  development  be 
made  a  top  priority.  The  Congress  has  created  the 
Agency  for  Health  Care  Policy  and  Research  within 
the  Public  Health  Service 

“to  enhance  the  quality,  appropriateness,  and  effectiveness  of  health 
care  services,  and  access  to  such  services,  through  the  establish¬ 
ment  of  a  broad  base  of  scientific  research  and  through  the  promo¬ 
tion  of  improvements  in  clinical  practice  and  in  the  organization, 
financing,  and  delivery  of  health  care  services.”  (Public  Law  No. 
101-229,  sec.  6(a)) 

The  Agency  is  to  accomplish  this  purpose  by 
conducting  and  supporting  a  wide  range  of  activities 
including  research,  evaluations,  demonstrations,  edu¬ 
cation  and  training,  data  and  data  base  development, 
information  dissemination,  and  development  of  prac¬ 
tice  guidelines  and  standards. 

An  Enhanced  Data  System — We  believe  that  a  data 
base  that  contains  at  least  a  set  of  minimum  data  ele¬ 
ments  collected  on  each  health  care  encounter  regard¬ 
less  of  purchaser  or  setting  and  that  integrates  those 
data  for  analysis  is  an  important  element  of  a  com¬ 
prehensive  quality  assurance  system.  The  data  should 
include  information  not  only  on  the  medical  care  pro¬ 
vided  during  the  encounter  but  also  on  any  judgments 
about  quality.  An  enhanced  data  base  would  enable 
monitoring  the  quality  of  care  provided  to  individual 
patients  across  health  care  settings  and  providers.  For 
example,  evaluating  the  outcome  of  a  surgical  inter¬ 
vention  requires  knowing  what  happened  to  the  pa¬ 
tient  after  he  or  she  left  the  hospital.  An  enhanced 
data  base  would  also  allow  for  the  profiling  of  indi¬ 
vidual  provider  practice  patterns  based  on  care  paid 
for  by  all  purchasers  rather  than  a  single  purchaser. 
Currently,  these  types  of  analyses  are  often  not  possi¬ 
ble.  In  addition,  health  and  functional  status  informa¬ 
tion  on  samples  of  the  population  would  be  needed  in 
order  to  track  changes  in  the  health  of  the  population 
over  time  and  identify  variation  in  health  outcomes 
and  functional  status  among  population  groups  or 
geographical  areas.  This  would  be  useful  in  monitor- 


99 


ing  the  performance  of  the  health  system  as  a  whole 
and  setting  national  health  priorities. 

For  hospital  care,  it  would  be  possible  to  build 
upon  existing  claims  formats  and  fairly  uniform  hospi¬ 
tal  discharge  data  across  purchasers.  However,  for 
other  settings,  there  is  very  little  uniformity  across 
purchasers.  An  area  of  particular  concern  is  the  lack 
of  experience  with  obtaining  detailed  information 
from  ambulatory  care  settings  and  particularly  from 
physicians’  offices.  For  Medicare  and  some  private  in¬ 
surers,  diagnostic  data  are  now  included  on  claim 
forms  used  for  ambulatory  care.  This  will  be  useful 
but  still  quite  minimal  for  quality  assessment  purposes. 
Significant  attention  will  have  to  be  devoted  to  defin¬ 
ing  an  appropriate  set  of  minimum  elements  for  this 
type  of  health  care  encounter  and  to  ensuring  that  the 
information  provided  is  reliable  and  valid.  The  recent 
revision  to  the  1981  National  Ambulatory  Medical 
Care  Minimum  Data  Set  by  the  National  Committee 
on  Vital  and  Health  Statistics  provides  a  start  toward 
specifying  such  a  set  of  data  elements. 

Even  with  agreement  on  the  appropriate  data  ele¬ 
ments,  the  implementation  of  an  integrated  data 
system  will  not  be  simple.  The  resources  required  for 
collecting,  processing,  and  maintaining  this  data  base 
will  be  substantial  and  include  both  human  resources 
and  computer  hardware  and  software.  The  integration 
of  data  across  settings,  providers,  and  purchasers  will 
require  the  use  of  unique,  common  identifiers  for  pro¬ 
viders  and  purchasers  as  well  as  for  patients.  The  data 
coming  into  the  system  must  be  checked  regularly  to 
ensure  their  accuracy.  The  data  will  have  to  be  orga¬ 
nized  so  that  all  encounters  for  an  individual  patient, 
as  well  as  all  services  provided  by  a  particular  pro¬ 
vider,  can  be  easily  collated  and  analyzed.  The  system 
must  also  be  flexible  enough  to  accommodate  the  in¬ 
evitable  changes  and  improvements  in  data  and  qual¬ 
ity  assessment  methods  that  will  come  with  time. 
Safeguards  for  privacy  and  confidentiality  will  also 
need  to  be  addressed. 

An  Improved  System  of  Local  Review — Our  reviews 
of  the  literature  as  well  as  the  results  of  some  quality 
review  programs  leave  little  doubt  that  significant 
numbers  of  patients  are  currently  receiving  inap¬ 
propriate  or  poor-quality  care.  For  example,  in  past 
studies,  we  have  cited  estimates  of  rates  of  inappropri¬ 
ate  use  of  surgical  procedures  ranging  from  14  to  32 
percent  as  well  as  rates  of  inappropriate  hospital  ad¬ 
missions  ranging  from  7  to  19  percent.6  In  addition, 
our  evaluations  of  current  quality  assurance  programs 
suggest  that  those  programs  are  not  identifying  signifi- 


5  General  Accounting  Office,  Medicare:  Improvements  Needed  in  the  Identi¬ 
fication  of  Inappropriate  Hospital  Care,  GAO/PEMD-90-7  (Washington, 
D.C.:  December  20,  1989),  3-4. 


cant  proportions  of  cases  with  potential  quality  prob¬ 
lems.  For  example,  SuperPRO  regularly  reviews  a 
random  sample  of  Medicare  cases  previously  re¬ 
viewed  by  PROs  and  typically  questions  the  appropri¬ 
ateness  of  hospital  admission  in  almost  six  times  as 
many  cases  as  the  PROs.6  Similarly,  our  review  of 
the  initial  screening  of  cases  in  military  hospitals  for 
occurrences  indicating  potentially  substandard  care 
found  that  many  such  occurrences  were  missed  in  the 
initial  screening  process.7 

Despite  the  importance  of  continuous  quality  im¬ 
provement  strategies  in  the  long  run,  our  past  work 
has  shown  that  improvements  in  external  quality  as¬ 
surance  mechanisms  are  needed  in  order  to  achieve 
the  goal  of  appropriate,  high-quality  medical  care  for 
all  Americans.  We  believe  that  there  are  a  number  of 
key  components  for  improving  the  conduct  of  quality 
assurance  within  the  framework  of  a  comprehensive, 
national  strategy.  First,  the  quality  assurance  activities 
need  to  be  conducted  by  local  review  entities  that  are 
held  accountable  for  identifying  instances  of  poor 
quality  and  improving  overall  patterns  of  care  within 
their  geographical  area.  Second,  the  local  review  enti¬ 
ties  should  have  available  a  uniform  set  of  methods 
for  reviewing  care  (including  practice  guidelines  and 
standards),  developing  and  implementing  interventions 
and  reporting  information  on  the  results  of  reviews 
and  interventions.  Finally,  a  national  organization  is 
needed  to  develop  the  national  guidelines  and  review 
methods  and  to  coordinate  and  oversee  the  activities 
of  the  local  review  entities. 

By  local  review  entities  we  mean  organizations  that 
are  close  enough  to  the  local  health  care  community 
that  appropriate  recognition  of  the  unique  circum¬ 
stances  of  the  community  can  be  made  and  that  the 
type  of  balanced  quality  assurance  system  we  advo¬ 
cated  earlier  can  be  fostered  and  maintained.  The 
state-level  PRO  program  is  one  organizational  model 
that  approximates  this  goal.  The  individual  PROs  are 
charged  with  ensuring  that  the  care  provided  to 
Medicare  beneficiaries  is  appropriate  and  of  high 
quality  and,  at  the  same  time,  with  maintaining  a  posi¬ 
tive,  cooperative  relationship  with  the  provider 
community. 

Greater  uniformity  and  effectiveness  in  review 
methods,  intervention  approaches,  and  reporting  of 
results  will  be  necessary  in  order  to  ensure  that  all  pa¬ 
tients  are  receiving  an  equally  high  level  of  quality. 
However,  moving  toward  greater  uniformity  is  not 
meant  to  imply  that  all  reviews  must  be  identical. 


6  General  Accounting  Office,  Medicare,  3. 

7  General  Accounting  Office,  DOD  Health  Care:  Occurrence  Screen  Pro¬ 
gram  Undergoing  Changes  but  Weaknesses  Still  Exist,  GAO/HRD-89-36 
(Washington,  D.C.:  January  5,  1989). 


100 


Some  flexibility  is  needed  to  tailor  review  methods 
and  interventions  to  specific  situations.  For  example, 
generally  speaking,  reviewing  the  appropriateness  of  a 
hospital  length  of  stay  would  be  reasonable.  How¬ 
ever,  since  the  Medicare  Prospective  Payment  System 
reimburses  hospitals  a  set  amount  regardless  of  the 
length  of  stay,  the  incentive  for  hospitals  is  to  release 
patients  earlier  rather  than  later.  Therefore,  the 
review  of  the  appropriateness  of  a  hospital  discharge 
under  Medicare  generally  focuses  on  the  possibility 
that  premature  discharge  has  occurred  rather  than  on 
inappropriate  days  at  the  end  of  the  stay. 

A  variety  of  existing  methods  of  quality  assessment 
could  serve  as  the  core  of  the  common  review  ap¬ 
proaches.  Reviews  could  be  done  prior  to  care  being 
received  (prospective  review)  that  typically  focus  on 
the  need  for  particular  procedures,  the  appropriate¬ 
ness  of  the  proposed  setting  (often  the  hospital),  and 
the  proposed  length  of  stay.  The  limited  informa¬ 
tion  available  suggests  that  these  reviews  are  cost- 
effective. 

Reviews  could  be  done  while  the  care  is  being  de¬ 
livered  (concurrent  review)  and  would  typically  focus 
on  the  need  for  continued  care  but  might  also  address 
a  lack  of  expected  progress  or  improvement.  This 
type  of  review  tends  to  be  expensive  and  is  often  lim¬ 
ited  to  potentially  high-cost  cases. 

Reviews  could  be  done  after  the  care  is  completed 
(retrospective  reviews)  that  examine  the  process  and 
outcomes  of  care  based  on  information  contained  in 
the  medical  record  or  on  the  claims  form.  Reviews 
based  on  the  medical  records  are  relatively  expensive 
but  can  address  a  wide  range  of  appropriateness  and 
quality  concerns,  including  both  overuse  and 
underuse. 

Reviews  could  be  done  of  aggregate  data  from 
either  claims  or  medical  records  (profiling;  small  area 
variation  analysis)  that  focus  on  identifying  providers 
who  differ  in  one  way  or  another  from  their  peers  in 
their  process  or  outcome  of  care.  These  could  be  used 
to  target  both  prospective  and  retrospective  reviews. 

Reviews  could  be  done  of  prescription  drug  use, 
prospectively  or  retrospectively,  that  focus  on  ensur¬ 
ing  appropriate  use  and  limiting  adverse  reactions  and 
also  allow  the  targeting  of  educational  and  other 
interventions  for  both  patients  and  providers. 

Similarly,  a  number  of  intervention  approaches  that 
have  been  tried  could  serve  as  the  basis  for  develop¬ 
ing  a  uniform  set  of  interventions  for  use  by  local 
review  entities. 


One  approach  is  that  of  undertaking  educational 
interventions  aimed  at  providing  the  medical  commu¬ 
nity  with  information  on  the  appropriate  uses  and 
costs  of  various  medical  services.  The  evidence  on  the 
effectiveness  of  this  approach  in  changing  provider 
behavior  is  mixed. 

Another  is  to  provide  feedback  of  review  results  to 
providers,  either  on  individual  cases  or  on  aggregate 
practice  patterns.  While  generally  viewed  as  more 
effective  than  simple  educational  interventions,  its  use¬ 
fulness  has  been  limited  by  the  unavailability  of  com¬ 
prehensive  data  across  purchasers  and  settings. 

Yet  another  approach  consists  of  restrictions  on 
providers’  use  of  particular  services  (such  as  the  total 
number  of  laboratory  tests)  or  on  their  practice  (such 
as  hospital  or  operating  room  privileges).  Restrictions 
have  sometimes  been  met  with  resistance  and  often 
change  behavior  only  as  long  as  they  remain  in  place. 

One  more  approach  is  to  offer  incentives  (such  as 
increased  reimbursement,  more  patients,  reduced 
administrative  requirements)  for  providers  to  conform 
to  particular  standards  of  medical  practice.  These  are 
being  increasingly  used,  particularly  in  managed  care 
organizations  such  as  preferred  provider  organizations 
and  health  maintenance  organizations. 

Last,  monetary  sanctions  can  be  imposed  or  pro¬ 
viders  can  be  excluded  from  the  program  (as  in  the 
Medicare  program)  if  they  provide  poor-quality  care 
and  are  unwilling  or  unable  to  change  their  practice 
patterns. 

Additional  development,  experimentation,  and  eval¬ 
uation  of  both  assessment  and  intervention  techniques 
will  be  needed  in  order  to  create  an  effective,  com¬ 
prehensive,  national  strategy. 

Finally,  even  though  some  flexibility  in  the  imple¬ 
mentation  of  reviews  and  interventions  is  necessary,  a 
common  set  of  reporting  requirements,  and  particu¬ 
larly  reporting  categories,  will  be  needed  in  order  to 
oversee  and  evaluate  the  quality  assurance  activities  at 
a  national  level.  One  of  the  greatest  weaknesses  of  the 
current  system  of  quality  assurance  is  that  there  is  no 
simple  way  to  compare  information  on  quality  of  care 
from  one  program  to  another  or  to  monitor  changes 
in  levels  of  quality  over  time.  This  is  another  area  in 
which  developmental  work  is  needed. 

A  National  Organizational  Focus — We  believe  a  na¬ 
tional  organizational  focus  is  required  to  accomplish 
the  many  developmental,  implementation,  and  evalua¬ 
tion  tasks  needed  to  set  up  and  operate  a  comprehen- 


101 


sive,  national  system  of  quality  assurance.  Some  of 
the  developmental  tasks  have  been  alluded  to  above — 
supporting  research  on  the  effectiveness  of  medical 
care  and  developing  improved  quality  assessment  and 
assurance  techniques.  Others  include  developing  prac¬ 
tice  guidelines  and  standards,  uniform  reporting  re¬ 
quirements  for  both  medical  data  and  data  on  the 
results  of  quality  reviews,  and  methods  of  changing 
provider  behavior,  including  approaches  for  fostering 
internal  quality  assurance  activities.  Implementation 
will  require  the  development  and  oversight  of  local 
review  organizations  that  have  the  necessary  tools 
and  skills  in  data  integration  and  analysis,  quality  as¬ 
sessment,  and  quality  assurance.  Finally,  the  national 
organization  will  also  require  considerable  expertise  in 
data  analysis,  evaluation,  and  management  in  order  to 
integrate  the  information  coming  from  the  various 
local  review  entities  into  a  national  picture  of  health 
care  quality,  to  evaluate  the  performance  of  the  local 
review  entities,  and  to  identify  areas  in  which  greater 
attention  to  quality  is  needed. 


The  Role  of  Provider  Accreditation  and 
Certification 

Most  of  the  discussion  of  quality  assurance  to  this 
point  pertains  to  the  review  of  care  provided  to  indi¬ 
vidual  patients.  However,  it  is  also  important  to 
review  the  credentials,  facilities,  staff,  and  administra¬ 
tive  procedures  of  health  care  providers  (so-called 
“structural”  quality  assurance)  to  determine  a  pro¬ 
vider’s  capability  or  potential  for  providing  high  qual¬ 
ity  care.  While  such  review  cannot  ensure  that  quality 
care  is  actually  provided,  it  is  important  for  ensuring 
that  at  least  the  necessary  elements  for  providing 
quality  care  exist  and  that  providers  without  those 
elements  are  not  allowed  to  participate. 

Established  accreditation  or  certification  programs 
exist  for  hospitals,  nursing  homes,  and  many  ambula¬ 
tory  care  settings.  However,  one  setting  in  which 
little  review  of  this  type  occurs  is  the  individual  phy¬ 
sician’s  office.  We  believe  that  such  review  may  be 
particularly  important  for  physicians  who  do  not  have 
hospital  admitting  privileges  and  who  are  not  part  of 
a  larger  medical  network  through  which  their  care 
might  be  scrutinized.  For  selected  physicians  in  this 
category,  on-site  visits  might  be  warranted  to  ensure 
that  medical  records  are  legible,  integrated,  and  filed; 
that  X-ray  and  laboratory  equipment  is  properly  cali¬ 
brated,  maintained,  and  used;  and  that  the  process  of 


care  (as  revealed  through  a  review  of  patients’ 
records)  is  appropriate  and  high  in  quality. 


The  Importance  of  Consumer  Education 

Expanding  access  to  care  may  bring  some  patients 
into  the  traditional  health  care  system  for  the  first 
time.  They  will  need  assistance  in  learning  to  access 
the  system  appropriately,  select  primary  care  physi¬ 
cians,  and  understand  the  importance  of  an  ongoing 
relationship  with  an  “accountable”  provider.  Pro¬ 
viders  will  need  assistance  in  working  with  these  new 
patients  and  helping  them  to  use  the  system  wisely. 
All  consumers  will  need  assistance  in  using  the  in¬ 
creasingly  available  information  on  the  appropriate¬ 
ness  and  quality  of  care  to  make  prudent  choices 
among  providers. 


Conclusion 

We  believe  that  a  comprehensive  national  quality 
assurance  strategy  is  needed  in  order  to  ensure  that  all 
Americans  receive  high-quality  medical  care.  A  com¬ 
prehensive  national  strategy  is  important  for  several 
reasons:  (1)  to  ensure  that  the  treatment  of  individuals 
does  not  depend  on  how  the  care  is  financed;  (2)  to 
be  able  to  examine  the  contents,  appropriateness,  and 
outcomes  of  care,  regardless  of  when  and  where  the 
care  was  provided  or  who  paid  for  it;  and  (3)  to  meet 
the  legitimate  needs  for  information  on  quality  of  the 
many  different  actors  in  the  health  care  system. 

We  see  four  essential  elements  of  a  comprehensive 
national  strategy: 

•  national  practice  guidelines  and  standards  of  care, 

•  enhanced  data  to  support  quality  assurance 
activities, 

•  improved  approaches  to  quality  assessment  and 
assurance  at  the  local  level,  and 

•  a  national  focus  for  developing,  implementing, 
and  monitoring  a  national  system. 

We  believe  that  the  basic  elements  necessary  to 
move  toward  a  comprehensive  national  strategy  cur¬ 
rently  exist.  However,  additional  time  and  resources 
will  be  required  to  fully  develop,  implement,  and 
evaluate  the  components  that  will  make  the  system 
truly  effective.  The  understanding  and  cooperation  of 
health  care  providers,  purchasers,  consumers,  and  pol¬ 
icymakers  are  also  essential. 


102 


APPENDIX  I— EXPERT  PANEL  ON 
QUALITY  ASSURANCE  ISSUES 

Robert  Brook,  M.D.,  Sc.D. 

Deputy  Director,  Health  Program 
The  Rand  Corporation 

John  W.  Bussman,  M.D. 

Medical  Director 

Oregon  Medical  Professional  Review  Organization 

Robert  Keller,  M.D. 

Executive  Director 

Maine  Medical  Assessment  Foundation 

Kathleen  N.  Lohr,  Ph.D. 

Senior  Professional  Associate 
Institute  of  Medicine 
National  Academy  of  Sciences 

Barbara  Matula 
Director 

North  Carolina  Division  of  Medical  Assistance 

Michael  R.  McGarvey,  M.D. 

Corporate  Vice  President,  Health  Affairs 
Empire  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield 

Leslie  Michelson 

President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
Value  Health  Sciences,  Inc. 

R.  Heather  Palmer,  M.B.,  B.Ch.,  S.M. 

Department  of  Health  Policy  and  Management 
Harvard  School  of  Public  Health 

Gerald  Plotkin,  M.D. 

Medical  Director,  Medical  Groups  Division 
Harvard  Community  Health  Plan 

Cary  Sennett,  M.D.,  M.  Phil. 

Medical  Director  and  Director  of 
Technology  Assessment 
AETNA  Life  and  Casualty 

Michael  Stocker,  M.D. 

Executive  Vice  President 
U.S.  Health  Care 

Leon  Wyszewianski,  Ph.D. 

Department  of  Health  Services  Management  and 
Policy 

The  University  of  Michigan  School  of  Public  Health 
Edward  Zalta,  M.D. 

Chairman  of  the  Board  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
Capp  Care 


APPENDIX  II— MAJOR  CONTRIBUTORS 
TO  THIS  REPORT 

Program  Evaluation  and 
Methodology  Division 

Linda  Demlo,  Assistant  Director  for  Program 
Evaluation  in  Human  Services  Areas 
Roger  Straw,  Project  Manager 


Related  GAO  Reports 

Medicare:  Improvements  Needed  in  the  Identification  of 
Inappropriate  Hospital  Care  (GAO/PEMD-90-7, 
December  20,  1989). 

Medicare:  Assuring  the  Quality  of  Home  Health  Services 
(GAO/HRD-90-7,  October  10,  1989). 

VA  Health  Care:  Improvements  Needed  in  Procedures  to 
Assure  Physicians  Are  Qualified  (GAO/HRD-89-77, 
August  22,  1989). 

Health  Care:  Initiatives  in  Hospital  Risk  Management 
(GAO/HRD-89-79,  July  18,  1989). 

Prescription  Drugs:  Information  on  Selected  Drug  Utili¬ 
zation  Review  Systems  (GAO/PEMD-89-18,  May 
24,  1989).  ' 

DOD  Health  Care:  Occurrence  Screen  Program  Under¬ 
going  Changes  but  Weaknesses  Still  Exist  (GAO/ 
HRD-89-36,  January  5,  1989). 

Medicare:  An  Assessment  of  HCFA's  1988  Hospital 
Mortality  Analyses  (GAO/PEMD-89-1 1BR,  De¬ 
cember  13,  1988). 

Medicare  PROs:  Extreme  Variation  in  Organizational 
Structure  and  Activities  (GAO/PEMD-89-7FS,  No¬ 
vember  8,  1988). 

VA  Hospital  Care:  A  Comparison  of  VA  and  HCFA 
Methods  for  Analyzing  Patient  Outcomes  (GAO/ 
PEMD-89-29,  June  30,  1988). 

Medicare:  Improved  Patient  Outcome  Analyses  Could 
Enhance  Quality  Assessment  (GAO/PEMD-88-23, 
June  27,  1988). 

Medicare:  Improving  Quality  of  Care  Assessment  and 
Assurance  (GAO/PEMD-88-10,  May  2,  1988). 

VA  Health  Care:  Assuring  Quality  of  Care  for  Veterans 
in  Community  and  State  Nursing  Homes  (GAO/ 
HRD-88-18,  November  12,  1987). 

Medicare:  Preliminary  Strategies  for  Assessing  Quality  of 
Care  (GAO/PEMD-87-15BR,  July  10,  1987). 

Medicare:  Reviews  of  Quality  of  Care  at  Participating 
Hospitals  (GAO/HRD-86-139,  September  15, 
1986). 


103 


PRIMARY  CARE  SERVICE  DELIVERY  PROGRAMS— 
A  CRITICAL  ELEMENT  TO  ENSURING  ACCESS 
TO  CARE 


Bonnie  Lefkowitz  and  Judy  Rodgers  * 


EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 

During  the  past  twenty-five  years  the  nation’s 
health  care  system  has  undergone  tremendous  growth 
in  resource  capacity,  sophistication  of  medical  tech¬ 
nology,  and  insurance  coverage  of  the  formerly  unin¬ 
sured.  The  health  care  system  has  achieved  major 
successes:  Americans  are  living  longer,  infant  mortal¬ 
ity  has  dropped,  and  even  such  chronic  diseases  as 
hypertension  are  declining.  But  as  the  health  system 
has  grown,  paradoxes  have  emerged  and  gaps  in 
access  to  care  have  actually  widened.  These  para¬ 
doxes  have  left  large  numbers  of  people  without 
access  to  appropriate  health  care  either  because  they 
lack  insurance,  live  in  communities  without  sufficient 
health  resources,  have  special  needs  not  met  by  tradi¬ 
tional  medical  care,  or  face  other  barriers  such  as 
race,  language,  or  culture.  As  Lisbeth  Schorr  notes, 
“The  way  health  care  is  organized  and  paid  for  in  the 
United  States  has  produced  many  phenomenal  medi¬ 
cal  achievements  but  .  .  .  within  the  overall  success 
story  lie  hidden  failures.” 

Financing  reforms  can  contribute  significantly  to 
elimination  of  barriers  to  adequate  health  care.  How¬ 
ever,  financing  does  not  obviate  the  need  for  delivery 
programs.  The  purpose  of  this  paper  is  to  discuss  the 
service  delivery  component  of  a  comprehensive  ap¬ 
proach  to  ensure  access  to  care  and  improved  health 
status  for  underserved  populations.  The  paper  focuses 
on  access  to  primary  care — that  is,  first  line  outpatient 
services  provided  in  an  office  or  clinic  by  a  physician 

*  Report  prepared  by  Bonnie  Lefkowitz  and  Judy  Rodgers,  Bureau  of 
Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance.  Health  Resources  and  Services  Admin¬ 
istration,  U.S.  Public  Health  Service,  March  1990. 

Points  of  view  or  opinions  expressed  in  this  document  are  those  of  the  au¬ 
thors  and  do  not  necessarily  represent  the  official  position  or  policies  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 

The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  research  assistance  of  Irene  Buskin, 
Norma  Campbell,  and  Lynn  Spector. 


or  midlevel  practitioner.  It  also  argues  for  the  provi¬ 
sion  of  a  wide  range  of  facilitating  services  such  as 
community  outreach,  case-management  of  secondary 
and  tertiary  medical  care,  and  integration  of  tradi¬ 
tional  medical  services  with  health,  social,  and  wel¬ 
fare  services. 

This  paper  describes  barriers  to  the  receipt  of 
appropriate  primary  care,  explains  ways  in  which  spe¬ 
cific  population  subgroups  experience  these  barriers, 
defines  and  evaluates  the  effectiveness  of  existing  pri¬ 
mary  care  service  delivery  programs,  and  finally,  pro¬ 
poses  a  framework  for  future  reform. 

Barriers  to  Care.  Nearly  32  million  Americans  are 
uninsured  and  many  more  are  underinsured.  In  addi¬ 
tion  to  financial  barriers,  nonfinancial  barriers  still 
prevent  many  people  from  receiving  effective  primary 
care.  Specifically,  33  million  persons  live  in  Federally 
designated  Health  Manpower  Shortage  Areas;  16  mil¬ 
lion  in  isolated  rural  communities  and  17  million  in 
disadvantaged  urban  areas,  where  there  is  a  dearth  of 
health  care  facilities,  personnel,  and  other  resources 
needed  for  the  routine  provision  of  services  at  the 
local  level.  An  estimated  26  million  persons  do  not 
have  a  regular  private  sector  primary  care  physician. 
Additionally,  even  if  facilities  and  services  are  avail¬ 
able,  they  are  often  fragmented  (i.e.,  offered  through 
multiple  organizations  in  various  locations)  and 
poorly  coordinated.  Finally,  there  are  language, 
racial,  educational,  cultural,  and  attitudinal  differences 
which  impose  special  barriers  to  effective  delivery  of 
health  and  social  services. 

Groups  Affected  by  These  Barriers.  There  are  numer¬ 
ous  population  subgroups  that  experience  barriers  to 
the  receipt  of  appropriate  primary  health  care.  A  dis¬ 
proportionate  share  of  those  facing  these  barriers  are 
poor  and  minority.  Additional  special  population 


105 


groups  that  experience  particular  hurdles  to  the  re¬ 
ceipt  of  care  include,  among  others,  high  risk  preg¬ 
nant  women  and  their  infants,  migrant  farm  workers, 
individuals  with  HIV  infections,  substance  abusers, 
and  the  elderly.  Of  course  many  individuals  fall  into 
more  than  one  of  these  population  groups. 

Existing  Comprehensive  Primary  Care  Programs. 
There  are  several  types  of  subsidized  service  delivery 
programs  that  serve  those  individuals  who  lack  a  reg¬ 
ular  private  sector  primary  care  physician.  At  the 
Federal  level,  the  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery 
and  Assistance  is  responsible  for  programs  which 
bring  community-based  primary  health  care  to  ap¬ 
proximately  six  million  poor  and  underserved  persons 
through  grants  and  manpower  recruitment.  The 
Indian  Health  Service  provides  primary  care  services 
through  a  variety  of  urban  and  rural  programs  to 
over  one  million  persons  per  year.  Two  Federal 
Grant  programs  (the  Maternal  and  Child  Health  Serv¬ 
ices  Block  Grant,  and  the  Preventive  Health  and 
Health  Services  Block  Grant)  help  support  primary 
care  services  to  underserved  populations,  usually  pro¬ 
vided  through  State  and  local  health  departments. 
Approximately  25  percent  of  local  health  departments 
have  gone  beyond  offering  discrete  single  health  serv¬ 
ices,  and  now  provide  primary  care.  Hospitals  are  the 
only  family  doctor  in  many  areas,  in  that  underserved 
persons  often  rely  on  hospital  emergency  rooms  or 
organized  outpatient  departments  as  their  principal 
source  of  primary  care.  School-based  health  centers 
offer  primary  health  care,  through  150  health  centers 
operating  in  junior  and  senior  high  schools  in  both 
urban  and  rural  areas.  Finally,  the  private  sector  helps 
to  serve  vulnerable  populations  by  subsidizing  over 
500  private,  non-publicly  funded  health  centers 
throughout  the  country. 

Effectiveness  of  Existing  Programs  A  number  of 
studies  have  shown  that  existing  primary  care  pro¬ 
grams  have  made  significant  inroads  in  reducing  bar¬ 
riers  to  the  receipt  of  appropriate  health  care,  and 
improving  health  status  and  outcome.  For  example, 
the  effectiveness  of  community-based  health  centers  is 
evidenced  by  the  fact  that  Medicaid  patients  who  use 
these  centers  have  lower  hospital  admission  rates, 
shorter  lengths  of  stay,  and  make  less  inappropriate 
use  of  emergency  rooms  than  similar  patients  who  use 
Medicaid  but  not  a  community  health  center.  Simi¬ 
larly,  health  centers  have  had  a  beneficial  effect  on 
both  white  and  black  infant  mortality  rates,  have  re¬ 
duced  rheumatic  fever  and  untreated  middle  ear  infec¬ 
tions,  and  have  brought  about  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  immunized  children.  Unfortunately,  most 
of  the  research  in  this  area  was  conducted  in  the 
1970s  and  early  1980s. 


Future  Directions.  Service  delivery  programs  effec¬ 
tively  target  their  services  to  underserved,  vulnerable 
populations  by  offering  an  optimal  continuum  of  ac¬ 
tivities.  First,  they  ensure  the  presence  of  providers 
and  facilities  and  offer  comprehensive  primary  medi¬ 
cal  care.  Second,  they  provide  case  management,  and 
where  possible,  co-location  of  a  broad  range  of 
health,  welfare,  and  other  support  services.  Third, 
they  include  outreach  and  other  social  services  which 
foster  health  prevention  and  promotion  behavior,  en¬ 
courage  early  entry  into  the  health  and  social  service 
system,  and  encourage  at-risk  populations  to  maintain 
participation  in  care.  Examples  of  such  services  in¬ 
clude  health  education  programs,  transportation  and 
home  visiting,  on-site  day  care,  and  bilingual  services. 
Finally,  effective  programs  are  community-based  and 
community-responsive,  addressing  unique  local  cir¬ 
cumstances  and  health  care  problems. 

Expanding  health  care  insurance  coverage  should 
reinforce — not  replace — support  for  primary  care  de¬ 
livery  systems.  Depending  on  their  design,  financing 
reforms  can  increase  the  capacity  of  direct  delivery 
providers.  If  insurance  covers  patients  previously  un¬ 
insured  or  underinsured,  delivery  systems  can  then 
use  their  State,  Federal  or  private  funds  to  develop 
additional  facilities,  to  expand  types  of  services  and 
the  number  of  patients  served  at  existing  facilities,  and 
to  provide  additional  outreach  and  case  management 
services.  Thus  insurance  and  service  delivery  ap¬ 
proaches  to  ensuring  access  to  care  are  synergistic. 


THE  PROBLEM— BARRIERS  TO  CARE 

Barriers  to  the  receipt  of  primary  care  are  varied, 
but  can  generally  be  categorized  into  the  groups  de¬ 
scribed  below.  It  is  important  to  note  that  many  indi¬ 
viduals  who  lack  access  to  appropriate  health  care 
have  problems  that  fall  into  more  than  one  of  these 
categories. 


Financial  Barriers 

While  this  paper  emphasizes  service  delivery  issues, 
these  problems  are  exacerbated  by  financial  barriers  to 
access  which  limit  the  care  available  to  poor  people, 
and  place  added  burdens  on  the  service  delivery  pro¬ 
grams  that  are  available  to  this  population.  Indeed, 
31.8  million  Americans  lacked  health  insurance,  either 
public  or  private,  in  1987  (the  most  recent  year  for 
which  data  is  available).1  While  some  are  young  and 

1  Bureau  of  the  Census,  Current  Population  Survey  (Washington,  D.C.: 
March  1988). 


106 


healthy  (e.g.,  college  graduates  who  have  not  yet  re¬ 
placed  their  parents’  health  insurance  with  their  own), 
most  are  poor.  Additionally,  many  other  persons  are 
underinsured — that  is,  their  public  or  private  insur¬ 
ance  does  not  cover  important  services,  especially 
preventive  and  primary  care.  For  example,  Medicare, 
which  requires  20  percent  patient  payment  for  outpa¬ 
tient  services,  excludes  preventive  services  such  as 
Pap  smears.2 


Capacity /Resource  Barriers 

As  discussed  below,  there  are  many  people  who 
lack  access  due  to  insufficient  facilities,  personnel,  and 
other  resources  needed  for  the  routine  provision  of 
services  at  the  local  level.  In  certain  geographic 
areas — mainly  rural  and  inner  city  areas,  there  is  a 
dearth  of  health  care  resources  and  personnel.  In 
1988,  33  million  people  (17  million  urban  and  16  mil¬ 
lion  rural)  were  living  in  Health  Manpower  Shortage 
Areas  (HMSAs).3  Not  all  of  these  individuals  experi¬ 
ence  access  problems,  but  there  is  a  great  deal  of 
overlap  with  the  estimated  26  million  persons  who 
lack  a  regular  private  sector  primary  care  physician.4 

Isolated  Rural  Areas — Rural  residents  lag  behind 
the  rest  of  the  country  in  access  to  health  care.  There 
are  roughly  one-half  as  many  physicians  in  rural  areas 
as  there  are  in  urban  areas — 97.9  vs.  174.7  per  100,000 
population.  Rural  counties  with  a  population  of  less 
than  10,000  had  only  53  physicians  per  100,000  popu¬ 
lation  in  1985,  and  in  counties  with  fewer  than  2,500, 
this  ratio  fell  to  29.9. 5  Physician  availability  in  rural 
areas  is  expected  to  worsen  even  further  in  the  next 
few  years  due  to  an  expected  25  percent  rate  of  physi¬ 
cian  retirement  and  severe  cutbacks  in  the  National 
Health  Service  Corps  Scholarships  program,  which 
supplies  physicians  to  HMSAs.6  The  Nation  has  1,955 
HMSAs  (areas  with  a  primary  care  physician  to  popu¬ 
lation  ratio  of  less  than  1  to  3,000),  and  a  total  of 
4,224  primary  care  physicians  is  needed  to  bring  all 
these  areas  up  to  the  designation  threshold.  In  1990 
there  are  a  total  of  approximately  1,000  obligated 
NHSC  physicians,  of  which  120  are  newly  available 
scholars.  This  contrasts  dramatically  with  1986,  when 


2  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  Health  Resources 

and  Services  Administration,  U.S.  Public  Health  Service,  "The  Bureau  cf 
Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance’s  Unique  Role  in  Primary  Care,’ 
(Washington,  D.C.:  December  1988),  9.  __ 

3  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau  s 

Unique  Role,”  9. 

4  L.H.  Aiken,  C.E.  Lewis,  J.  Craig,  R.C.  Mendenhall,  R.J.  Blendon,  and 
D.E.  Rogers,  "The  Contribution  of  Specialists  to  the  Delivery  of  Primary 
Care:  A  New  Perspective,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  (June  4,  1979). 

5  David  A.  Kindig,  and  Hormoz  Movassaghi,  The  Adequacy  of  Physician 

Supply  in  Small  Rural  Counties,”  Health  Affairs  8  (2)  (Summer  1989):  66. 

8  Larry  S.  Patton,  The  Rural  Health  Challenge,  Staff  Report  to  the  Special 

Committee  on  Aging,  U.S.  Senate  (Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Printing 

Office,  1988),  52-53. 


there  were  2,600  scholarship  obligated  physicians  of 
which  1,400  were  newly  obligated.  Isolation,  over¬ 
work,  lack  of  professional  contact  and  low  economic 
viability  all  contribute  to  difficulties  in  attracting  new 
providers  to  rural  areas  voluntarily. 

Also,  beyond  personnel  issues,  there  are  other  prob¬ 
lems  related  to  low  geographic  density,  such  as  insuf¬ 
ficient  population  to  support  facilities  and  modem 
technology.  The  closure  or  cutback  of  many  rural 
hospitals  affects  the  availability  of  primary  care  di¬ 
rectly  as  well  as  the  ability  of  rural  areas  to  attract 
providers. 

Disadvantaged  Urban  Areas — The  17  million  urban 
residents  living  in  HMSAs  are  primarily  in  the  inner 
cities.  The  overall  adequate  or  excess  supply  of  physi¬ 
cians  in  urban  regions  masks  problems  in  poor,  often 
minority  areas  within  them.  In  ten  cities  the  number 
of  office-based  physicians  per  100,000  population  in 
poor  areas  declined  from  136  in  1963  to  127  in  1980, 
while  in  non-poverty  areas  their  number  grew  from 
131  to  150. 7 

Reasons  that  physicians  may  not  practice  in  these 
areas  include  concerns  about  inadequate  facilities  and, 
perhaps,  a  reluctance  to  serve  the  poor  and  minority 
populations  concentrated  there.  Because  of  the  high 
percentage  of  Medicaid  and  uninsured  patients  in 
inner  cities,  it  also  may  be  more  difficult  to  maintain 
an  economically  viable  practice  in  these  areas.  Other 
providers  may  locate  their  practices  in  urban  areas 
but  are  not  necessarily  willing  to  treat  the  poor  and 
minority  groups.8 


Operational/Organizational  Barriers 

Even  if  the  physical/structural  resources  are  in 
place,  underserved  populations  face  barriers  related  to 
the  operation  and  organization  of  services — such  as 
inadequate  transportation  to  primary  care  sites,  diffi¬ 
culties  in  arranging  child  care,  unpleasant  sur¬ 
roundings,  long  waiting  times,  inconvenient  hours  of 
operation  (causing  excessive  time  lost  from  work), 
and  lack  of  integration  among  the  various  programs 
serving  high-risk,  hard  to  reach  population  groups.9 


7  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  10. 

8  President’s  Commission  for  the  Study  of  Ethical  Problems  in  Medicine 
and  Biomedical  and  Behavioral  Research,  Securing  Access  to  Health  Care:  The 
Ethical  Implications  of  Differences  in  Availability  of  Health  Services,  Vol.  1: 
Report  (Washington,  D  C.:  Government  Printing  Office,  March  1983),  83-86. 

9  Institute  of  Medicine,  Prenatal  Care:  Reaching  Mothers,  Reaching  Infants, 
Summary  and  Recommendations  (Washington,  D.C.:  National  Academy 
Press),  6-7. 


107 


Case  management  of  primary,  specialty  and  inpa¬ 
tient  services  combined  with  other  social  and  support 
services  can  make  the  health  care  system  more  effec¬ 
tive  for  everyone  but  are  particularly  important  for 
the  poor  and  underserved.  Among  the  services 
needed  are  those  relating  to  eligibility  determinations 
for  health  financing,  mental  health,  substance  abuse, 
runaway  youth,  infant  day  care,  child  abuse  and  ne¬ 
glect,  welfare  programs,  nutrition,  family  planning, 
housing,  transportation,  labor  practices,  correctional 
programs,  and  legal  services.  Although  these  services 
are  typically  available  through  multiple  organizations, 
local  agencies  often  lack  adequate  personnel,  materi¬ 
als,  or  knowledge  of  other  programs  to  make  referrals 
or  other  coordination  efforts,  such  as  arranging  for 
co-location  of  services.  The  problem  is  exacerbated  in 
rural  areas,  where  the  physical  facilities  that  house 
necessary  services  are  geographically  dispersed,  thus 
complicating  integration  of  service  delivery.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  a  multiplicity  of  eligibility  requirements,  and 
multiple  sites  for  needs-determination  procedures 
complicate  the  ability  to  access  services.  Finally,  ri¬ 
valries  among  different  disciplines  and  organizations 
can  fragment  provider  responsibility.  This  inability  to 
integrate  services  means  that  those  least  able  to  do  so 
must  grapple  with  the  most  “red  tape”  and  barriers  to 
receiving  care. 1 0 


Cultural/Social  Barriers 

Oftentimes,  language,  racial,  educational,  behav¬ 
ioral,  environmental  and  attitudinal  differences  impose 
special  barriers  to  effective  delivery  of  health  and 
social  services.  Health  care  professionals  may  lack 
necessary  skills,  such  as  language  training,  health  edu¬ 
cation,  and  training  in  the  provision  of  preventive 
services,  or  may  be  insensitive  to  cultural  differ¬ 
ences.* 11  For  many  population  groups,  individual, 
family,  and  community  behavior  patterns  can  affect 
the  pursuit  of  appropriate  care  in  a  timely  fashion.  As 
an  example,  one-third  of  the  women  in  the  U.S.  do 
not  receive  adequate  prenatal  care,  of  which  the  high¬ 
est  proportion  are  black,  Hispanic,  poorly  educated, 
low-income,  unmarried,  and/or  teenaged. 12  Fear  or 
lack  of  knowledge  is  often  a  barrier  to  care  for  these 
women,  who  are  twice  as  likely  as  those  who  receive 
prenatal  care  to  have  a  low-birth  weight  baby.13  Fi¬ 


10  William  White,  consultant  to  the  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and 
Assistance,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  “Draft  Report  pre¬ 
pared  for  the  Subcommittee  on  Community  Based  Health  and  Social  Serv¬ 
ices,  White  House  Task  Force  on  Infant  Mortality”  (1989),  9. 

1 1  William  Gorham,  Delivery  of  Health  Services  for  the  Poor,  U.S.  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Washington,  D.C.:  December,  1967), 
257. 

12  Gold,  Kenney,  and  Singh,  Blessed  Events  and  the  Bottom  Line:  Financing 
Maternity  Care  in  the  United  States  (New  York:  The  Alan  Guttmacher  Insti¬ 
tute,  1987),  14-16. 

13  Gold,  Kenney,  and  Singh,  Blessed  Events,  14-16. 


nally,  exposure  to  environmental  toxins  or  hazards, 
such  as  lead,  also  influence  pregnancy  and  other 
health  outcomes. 1 4 


HOW  GROUPS  ARE  AFFECTED  BY 
THESE  BARRIERS 

There  are  numerous  population  subgroups  that  ex¬ 
perience  barriers  to  the  receipt  of  care.  A  dispropor¬ 
tionate  share  of  those  facing  the  barriers  described 
above  are  poor  and  minority.  In  addition,  there  are 
smaller,  frequently  overlapping  subgroups  who  are 
disproportionately  poor  or  minority  and  who  also 
face  their  own  unique  hurdles  to  accessible  care. 


The  Poor 

The  Robert  Wood  Johnson  Foundation  found  in  a 
recent  study  that  lack  of  accessible  care  is  largely  a 
problem  of  the  poor.  Specifically,  access  to  health 
care  showed  marked  improvement  from  the  1950s  to 
1982,  when  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor  was  clos¬ 
ing.  Unfortunately,  since  1982  this  gap  has  widened, 
reducing  access  to  care  among  the  poor.  For  example, 
the  adult  poor  below  the  age  of  65  had  30  percent 
fewer  ambulatory  visits  per  person  in  1986  than  in 
1982.  The  widening  gap  is  due  to  financial  barriers 
(i.e.,  increasing  lack  of  health  insurance)  as  well  as 
nonfinancial  barriers  (e.g.,  maldistribution  of  re¬ 
sources,  logistical  and  lifestyle  barriers).15  The  impact 
of  the  nonfinancial  barriers  is  noted  by  a  recent  study 
showing  that  among  insured  adults,  the  poor  are  4.4 
times  as  likely  as  those  who  are  not  poor  to  have 
needed  medical  services  but  not  to  have  received 
them. 1 6 

There  are  approximately  32  million  Americans  with 
incomes  below  the  poverty  line.17  The  poor  are  less 
likely  than  the  non-poor  to  have  private  medical  cov¬ 
erage  or  medical  coverage  through  their  workplace. 
One-half  of  the  31.8  million  people  who  lack  health 
insurance  have  incomes  below  150  percent  of  the  pov¬ 
erty  level.  Populations  in  this  group  include  pregnant 
women  and  infants,  children,  and  other  uninsured  per- 

14  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  “Facts  on  Infant  Mortality 
and  Access  to  Prenatal  Care”  (unpublished  information  distributed  on  Child 
Health  Day,  Washington  D.C.:  1989). 

1 5  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  8. 

16  Rodney  A.  Hayward,  M.D.,  Martin  F.  Shapiro,  M.D.,  Ph.D.,  Howard 
E.  Freeman,  Ph.D.,  and  Christopher  R.  Corey,  M.A.,  “Inequities  in  Health 
Services  Among  Insured  Americans,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  (June 
9,  1988):  1507. 

17  Jane  Koppelman,  National  Health  Policy  Forum,  The  George  Washing¬ 
ton  University,  Poverty  and  the  Underclass:  Priorities  for  the  Next  Decade,  Issue 
Brief  No.  511  (Washington,  D.C.:  1989),  2. 


108 


sons  such  as  the  working  poor,  who  are  not  eligible 
for  Medicaid  but  have  no  private  insurance.  Nation¬ 
wide,  Medicaid  reaches  fewer  than  half  the  poor,  and 
even  fewer  of  the  employed  poor.  In  fact,  fear  of 
losing  Medicaid’s  protection  may  be  an  incentive  to 
remain  unemployed,  thus  perpetuating  the  poverty 
cycle.18 


Minorities 

There  are  60  million  members  of  minority  groups 
(blacks,  Hispanics,  Native  Americans,  and  Asian 
Americans),  a  disproportionate  percentage  of  whom 
are  low  income.  Thus,  they  are  likely  to  face  access 
problems  related  to  poverty,  as  well  as  additional  bar¬ 
riers  arising  from  location  in  the  inner  city,  dis¬ 
crimination,  and  other  socio-economic  and  cultural 
factors.19  For  example,  researchers  Janet  Mitchell 
and  Rachel  Shurman  found  that,  controlling  for  other 
factors,  obstetricians  were  less  likely  to  participate  in 
Medicaid  in  counties  with  high  minority  populations. 
The  same  was  not  true  for  surgeons  or  general  practi¬ 
tioners,  causing  speculation  as  to  whether  it  was  the 
prospect  of  continuing  and  frequent  contact  with  pa¬ 
tients  that  led  to  the  difference.  Mitchell  and  Shurman 
also  noted  that  many  doctors  have  expressed  a  will¬ 
ingness  to  treat  the  poor  in  a  public  clinic  or  outpa¬ 
tient  department  for  a  few  hours  a  week,  but  not  in 
their  own  offices,  where  their  private  patients  might 
be  uncomfortable.20 

The  impact  of  these  non-financial  barriers  on  mi¬ 
nority  populations  is  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that 
among  insured,  working  age  adults,  blacks  are  1.7 
times  as  likely  as  whites  to  need  medical  services  but 
not  to  receive  them.  Similarly,  Hispanics  with  a  medi¬ 
cal  illness  are  2.2  times  as  likely  as  whites  not  to  have 
seen  a  physician  within  the  past  year. 2 1 

As  a  result  of  financial  as  well  as  nonfinancial  bar¬ 
riers  to  care,  there  are  significant  gaps  in  health  status 
between  minorities  and  the  rest  of  the  nation.  Specifi¬ 
cally,  in  virtually  every  measure  of  health  status  (e.g. 
life  expectancy,  death  rate,  infant  mortality  rate,  and 
the  prevalence  of  coronary  and  cerebrovascular  dis¬ 
ease),  minorities,  particularly  blacks  and  Hispanics, 
are  significantly  worse  off  than  whites.22 

18  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  "The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  9. 

19  President’s  Commission  Report,  83-86. 

20  Janet  B.  Mitchell  and  Rachel  Shurman,  “Access  to  Private  Obstetrics/ 
Gynecology  Services  under  Medicaid,”  Medical  Care,  22  (11)  (November 

1984):  1034.  .  .  „  ,  .  _ 

2 1  Hayward,  Shapiro,  Freeman,  and  Corey,  “Inequities  in  Health  Serv¬ 
ices,”  1507.  „  ... 

22  Office  of  Disease  Prevention  and  Health  Promotion,  U.S.  Public  Health 
Service,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Disease  Prevention/ 
Health  Promotion:  The  Facts,  (Palo  AJto,  Calif.:  Bull  Publishing  Company, 
1987),  198,  202. 


High  Risk  Pregnant  Women  and  Their  Infants 

In  1988,  the  provisional  infant  mortality  rate  in  the 
United  States  was  9.9  deaths  within  the  first  year  per 
1,000  live  births.  The  rate  for  black  infants  was  nearly 
twice  that.  In  1987  the  black  infant  mortality  rate 
(17.9  per  1,000)  was  at  the  same  level  as  the  white 
rate  had  been  25  years  earlier.  Although  the  U.S.  rate 
is  better  than  ever,  21  nations  have  lower  rates.23 

There  has  been  a  troubling  slowdown  in  the  rate  of 
decline  in  infant  mortality  observed  in  the  1980s. 
During  the  1970s,  the  rate  declined  by  4.9  percent  per 
year  for  whites  and  4. 1  percent  per  year  for  blacks.  In 
1987,  the  black  infant  mortality  rate  declined  by  less 
than  1  percent  for  the  third  year  in  a  row.  The  white 
infant  mortality  rate  declined  by  3.6  percent.24  Worse 
yet,  in  1987,  the  black  fetal  death  rate  increased  by  2.7 
percent,  the  first  increase  since  the  1960s.  White  fetal 
death  rates  decreased  by  only  1.6  percent.25 

The  rate  of  progress  has  slowed  primarily  because 
factors  associated  with  increased  risk  of  infant  death, 
such  as  low  birth  weight  and  lack  of  access  to  pre¬ 
natal  care,  have  shown  no  improvement  in  recent 
years.26  The  importance  of  prenatal  care  is  demon¬ 
strated  by  the  fact  that  women  who  get  insufficient 
prenatal  care  have  double  the  risk  of  having  a  low 
birth  weight  baby,  and  give  birth  to  babies  that  are 
three  times  more  likely  to  die  in  infancy.27  In  1980, 
low  birthweight  infants  represented  less  than  seven 
percent  of  all  newborns  in  the  United  States,  but 
accounted  for  sixty  percent  of  all  babies  who  died  in 
infancy.28 

Many  pregnant  women  experience  a  combination  of 
the  financial,  organizational,  and  cultural  barriers  de¬ 
scribed  above.  They  are  particularly  affected  by  lack 
of  providers,  exacerbated  by  the  fact  that  some  physi¬ 
cians  are  no  longer  practicing  obstetrics,  in  part  due 
to  the  cost  of  liability  insurance.  Lack  of  coordination 
among  health  and  social  services  also  has  a  significant 
impact  on  low-income  pregnant  women,  who  are  ill- 
prepared  to  visit  numerous  locations  in  search  of 
needed  services.  For  example,  services  under  the  Spe¬ 
cial  Supplemental  Food  Program  for  Women,  Infants, 
and  Children  (WIC)  are  often  not  provided  in  con¬ 
junction  with  prenatal  care. 


23  White  House  Task  Force  on  Infant  Mortality,  Draft  Report,  “Infant 
Mortality  in  the  United  States,”  (Washington,  D.C.:  October  29,  1989),  3. 

24  White  House  Task  Force,  Draft  Report,  3. 

25  White  House  Task  Force,  Draft  Report,  4. 

28  White  House  Task  Force,  Draft  Report,  3. 

2  7  Office  of  Disease  Prevention  and  Health  Promotion,  The  Facts,  1 34. 

28  Congress  of  the  United  States,  Office  of  Technology  Assessment, 
Healthy  Children:  Investing  in  the  Future,  OTA-H-345  (Washington,  D.C.: 
Government  Printing  Office,  February'  1988),  6. 


109 


Migrant  Farmworkers 

The  nation’s  three  million  migrant  and  seasonal 
farmworkers  and  their  families  share  some  needs  with 
other  indigent  people,  but  these  are  compounded  by 
special  hazards  of  farmwork,  such  as  pesticide  expo¬ 
sure  and  accidents,  combined  with  language,  mobility 
and  other  barriers  to  care.  Migrant  workers  are  rarely 
covered  by  Medicaid  because  of  residency  require¬ 
ments  or  by  private  insurance  because  of  the  nature  of 
their  employment.  They  often  work  in  rural,  isolated 
communities  where  there  are  few  providers  to  begin 
with.  Those  providers  who  are  present  tend  to  be 
physicians  with  full  practices  who  are  unable  to  cope 
with  a  sudden  and  seasonal  influx  of  additional  pa¬ 
tients.  In  addition,  migrants’  cultures  are  usually 
vastly  different  from  that  of  overburdened  local  pro¬ 
viders,  and  they  have  special  needs  for  support  and 
facilitating  services.  Because  of  the  instability  of  their 
living  arrangements  they  are  unlikely  to  have  their 
health  care  needs  met  in  time  to  prevent  more  serious 
illnesses.29 


Individuals  With  HIV  Infections 

According  to  CDC  estimates,  there  are  one  and  a 
half  million  persons  infected  with  the  HIV  virus,  with 
an  estimated  285,000  cases  of  AIDS  expected  by  1992. 
GAO  believes  these  estimates  are  low — that  there  will 
be  365,000  cases  by  the  end  of  1992. 30  This  popula¬ 
tion  has  enormous  needs  that  are  straining  the  health 
care  system.  Primary  care  is  an  increasingly  important 
component  of  caring  for  HIV  infected  persons  and 
community-based  resources  are  critical — particularly 
as  the  disease  spreads  to  more  inner  city  substance 
abusers,  their  sexual  partners,  and  children.  HIV  in¬ 
fection  poses  substantial  problems  for  the  health  care 
system  because  those  infected  are  often  times  poor,  in 
general  bad  health,  homeless,  and  IV  drug  abusers. 
An  additional  problem  is  that  providers  for  HIV  posi¬ 
tive  patients  may  be  limited.  Doctors  and  nurses  alike 
have  begun  to  report  increasing  psychological  and 
emotional  strain  from  working  with  AIDS  patients. 
Fear  of  becoming  infected  causes  the  health  care  pro¬ 
viders  to  question  their  ethical  obligation  to  treat  HIV 
infected  patients.31 


29  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  11-12. 

30  Centers  of  Disease  Control,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services, 
Public  Health  Reports,  103,  supp.  1  (Washington,  D.C.:  1988),  3. 

31  Institute  of  Medicine,  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  Confronting  AIDS 
Update  1988  (Washington,  D.C.:  National  Academy  Press,  1988),  12. 


Substance  Abusers 

Substance  abuse  is  a  major  national  problem  which 
has  social,  economic  and  health  consequences.  There 
are  6.5  million  abusers  of  illicit  drugs  in  this  coun¬ 
try.32  Substance  abuse  treatment  facilities  and  services 
are  insufficient  to  meet  the  need,  especially  for  the 
poor.  In  addition  they  are  seldom  integrated  with  pri¬ 
mary  care  and  other  physical  health  services.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  alcoholics  are  frequently  malnourished  and 
need  nutritional  therapy  and  counseling  but  may  not 
receive  them.  Primary  care  service  programs  are 
needed  to  identify  substance  abusers,  ensure  their 
treatment  by  appropriate  providers,  and  support  them 
with  comprehensive  primary  care,  including  preven¬ 
tive  medical  and  counseling  services.33 

Substance  abusers  frequently  overlap  with  other 
high  risk  groups.  For  example,  drug  abusers  are  at 
significantly  increased  risk  of  HIV  infection,  sub¬ 
stance  abuse  is  a  major  problem  among  the  homeless 
and  there  is  a  growing  problem  of  substance  abuse 
among  pregnant  women.  It  is  estimated  that  approxi¬ 
mately  375,000  children  were  born  exposed  to  drugs 
in  1988. 34  Many  of  these  infants  are  “boarder  babies,” 
who  are  ready  to  be  released  by  the  hospital  but  have 
been  abandoned  by  their  parents.  Most  boarder  babies 
are  drug  exposed,  and  their  mothers  are  addicts.35 


The  Homeless 

Estimates  of  the  number  of  homeless  individuals 
vary.  According  to  U.S.  Health  and  Human  Services 
documents,  there  are  between  550,000  and  600,000 
homeless  people  in  the  United  States  on  any  given 
night.  An  estimated  1.3  million  to  2  million  persons 
are  homeless  on  one  or  more  nights  in  the  course  of 
the  year.  Families,  mostly  women  with  children,  make 
up  23%  of  the  homeless  population.  Minorities  are 
disproportionately  represented,  at  2  to  4  times  their 
proportion  of  the  general  population.  The  homeless 
have  complex  health  needs,  ranging  from  trauma 
treatment  to  foot  care,  and  have  difficulty  integrating 
into  a  health  system  designed  for  the  housed.  They 
are  afflicted  by  numerous  cultural,  environmental,  and 
economic  barriers  that  inhibit  the  maintenance  of 


32  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Planning  and  Evaluation,  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  “Abusers  of  Illicit  Drugs,”  an  Attach¬ 
ment  to  a  July  6,  1989  Memorandum  from  Jerry  Britten  entitled  “Paper  for 
July  12,  1989  Meeting  on  Access  to  Health  Care”  (Typewritten). 

33  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  13. 

34  Laura  Feig,  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Planning  and  Evalua¬ 
tion,  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  “Drug  Exposed  Infants  and 
Children:  Service  Needs  and  Policy  Questions,”  (Washington,  D.C.:  January 
29,  1990),  2. 

35  Feig,  “Drug  Exposed  Infants,”  6. 


110 


good  health.  They  are  typically  uneducated  and/or 
virtually  dysfunctional,  limiting  employment  possibili¬ 
ties.  They  have  no  insurance  or  very  limited  insur¬ 
ance.  One-third  of  the  homeless  suffer  from  severe 
mental  illness.  Living  conditions  are  hazardous,  at 
best,  and  expose  the  homeless  to  additional  risks  of 
disease.  Malnutrition  rates  are  high,  and  immunization 
rates  among  children  in  homeless  families  are  low. 
The  result  is  that  group  shelters  for  the  homeless  pose 
significant  public  health  hazards,  as  they  are  reser¬ 
voirs  for  communicable  disease  (e.g.,  respiratory  in¬ 
fections,  TB,  chicken  pox).  Finally,  a  high  percentage 
of  the  homeless  belong  to  other  high-risk  population 
groups — that  is,  they  have  AIDS,  and/or  alcohol  and 
drug  dependencies.  Thirty-five  to  forty  percent  of  the 
homeless  have  alcohol  problems  and  between  10  and 
20  percent  abuse  other  drugs.36 


Elderly 

The  number  of  older  Americans  is  growing.  Only  4 
percent  of  the  population  in  1900  was  elderly,  where¬ 
as  by  the  year  2000,  13  percent  of  the  population  will 
be  age  65  or  older.37,  38  The  elderly  require  multiple 
health  and  social  services.  First,  their  health  care 
problems  can  be  both  physical  and  mental.  In  addition 
to  multiple  chronic  physical  problems  which  are  cu¬ 
mulative  with  age,  a  substantial  portion  of  the  elderly 
(18  percent)  have  significant  psychiatric  symptoms  of 
acute  or  chronic  mental  illness,  retardation  or  depres¬ 
sion.39  Many  elderly,  particularly  the  5.7  million  poor 
elderly,  also  require  social/support  services  to  address 
problems  such  as  isolation  and  inadequate  transporta¬ 
tion  to  reach  providers.40 


CURRENT  EFFORTS— EXISTING 
COMPREHENSIVE  PRIMARY 
CARE  PROGRAMS 

There  are  several  types  of  subsidized  service  deliv¬ 
ery  programs  that  serve  the  estimated  26  million  per¬ 
sons  lacking  a  regular  private  sector  primary  care 
physician.41  These  include  hospital  outpatient  depart  - 

38  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for  Planning  and  Evaluation,  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  “The  Homeless,”  an  Attachment  to  a 
July  6,  1989  Memorandum  from  Jerry  Britten  entitled  "Paper  for  July  12, 
1989  Meeting  on  Access  to  Health  Care”  (Typewritten). 

37  Office  of  Disease  Prevention  and  Health  Promotion,  The  Facts,  181. 

38  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  13. 

3®  National  Institute  on  Aging,  Personnel  for  the  Health  Needs  of  the  Elderly 
Through  the  Year  2020  (Report  to  Congress,  1987). 

40  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  13. 

41  Aiken,  Lewis,  Craig,  Mendenhall,  Blendon,  and  Rogers,  The  Contnbu- 
tion  of  Specialists,”  1363-1370. 


ments,  State  and  local  health  departments,  school- 
based  programs,  and  Federally  funded  and  privately 
supported  health  centers.  These  programs,  financed 
through  a  variety  of  mechanisms,  are  designed  to  ef¬ 
fectively  address  the  barriers  already  described.  They 
do  so  by  (1)  ensuring  the  presence  of  providers  and 
facilities,  (2)  offering  comprehensive  primary  medical 
care,  (3)  providing  outreach  and  case  management, 
and  (4)  including  community  input. 

In  1987,  for  those  Americans  with  family  incomes 
of  less  than  $10,000,  43.8  percent  of  their  physician 
contacts  were  in  a  doctor’s  office,  19.2  percent  were 
with  a  hospital  outpatient  department,  and  20.3  per¬ 
cent  were  with  clinics.  This  contrasts  with  those 
families  with  incomes  greater  than  $35,000,  in  which 
62.3  percent  of  physician  contacts  were  in  a  doctor’s 
office,  while  only  11.2  percent  were  in  a  hospi¬ 
tal  outpatient  department,  and  11.1  percent  were  in 
clinics.42  For  those  with  Medicaid,  the  likelihood  of 
receiving  services  from  a  private  physician  is  higher. 
However,  Medicaid  recipients  depend  heavily  on  sub¬ 
sidized  primary  care  programs  as  well  since  there  is  a 
shortage  in  many  areas  of  primary  care  providers 
who  treat  Medicaid  patients.  For  example,  in  Phila¬ 
delphia,  23.5  percent  of  Medicaid  recipients  cite  a 
hospital  as  their  usual  source  of  care.43 

Programs  of  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Health 
Care  Delivery  and  Assistance 

The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assist¬ 
ance  (BHCDA),  within  the  Health  Resources  and 
Services  Administration  of  the  U.S.  Public  Health 
Service,  is  responsible  for  a  group  of  community- 
based  programs  providing  primary  care  and  case 
management  to  approximately  six  million  poor  and 
underserved  persons  through  grants  and  manpower 
recruitment.  The  BHCDA  programs,  which  together 
encompass  610  grantees  at  more  than  1,500  sites, 
include  550  community  and  migrant  health  center 
(C/MHC)  grantees  comprising  the  basic  delivery 
system;  services  to  special  populations  (women  of 
child  bearing  age  and  their  infants,  the  homeless,  sub¬ 
stance  abusers  and  persons  with  AIDS);  and  National 
Health  Service  Corps  activities  (recruitment,  loan  re¬ 
payment  and  scholarships,  and  placement). 

Community  and  Migrant  Health  Centers — In  1989 
C/MHCs  served  5.5  million  Americans  and  had  total 


42  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics,  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services,  Health,  United  States.  1988  (Washington,  D.C.:  Government  Print¬ 
ing  Office,  March  1989),  106. 

43  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  10. 


Ill 


revenues  of  $1.12  billion,  of  which  45  percent  came 
from  Federal  grants.  The  remainder  came  from  pa¬ 
tient  payments  on  a  sliding  fee  scale  and  insurance 
collections  (42  percent)  and  State,  local  and  other 
support  (13  percent). 

The  Comprehensive  Perinatal  Care  Initiative — This 
program  provided  $20  million  in  each  of  FYs  1988 
and  1989  to  over  200  C/MHCs  for  the  purpose  of  en¬ 
hancing  outreach  and  case  management  activities 
during  pregnancy  and  the  first  year  of  life.  These 
services  have  reached  approximately  100,000 
mother/infant  pairs. 

The  Health  Care  for  the  Homeless  Program — 

Through  this  program  $60  million  in  FY  1988  and 
1989  was  awarded  to  109  community-based  organiza¬ 
tions  who  offered  primary  care  services  to  homeless 
populations.  Roughly  231,000  homeless  people  were 
served  in  1988,  the  first  year  of  operation,  with  ap¬ 
proximately  400,000  persons  being  served  in  1989. 

Substance  Abuse — In  FY  1988  BHCDA  awarded 
$3.8  million  to  43  projects  to  combine  primary  care 
with  special  services  for  substance  abusers.  In  FY 

1989  $9  million  was  provided  in  a  collaborative  effort 
with  the  National  Institute  of  Drug  Abuse  to  21 
community-based  organizations,  to  integrate  primary 
care  services  with  substance  abuse  treatment.  Under 
this  program  approximately  21,000  persons  were  seen 
for  both  substance  abuse  and  primary  care  services. 

AIDS — In  FY  1989,  under  an  inter-agency  agree¬ 
ment  between  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and 
BHCDA,  three  CHCs  were  funded  to  participate  in 
an  AIDS  prevention  and  treatment  program.  In  FY 

1990  more  than  $10  million  will  be  available  to 
expand  the  AIDS  treatment  and  prevention  pro¬ 
gram  to  as  many  as  20  centers  located  in  high  risk 
communities. 

The  National  Health  Service  Corps — NHSC  helps 
recruit  and  retain  physicians  and  other  health  profes¬ 
sionals  in  areas  with  shortages  of  these  providers.  It 
previously  relied  on  a  scholarship  program  which  ob¬ 
ligated  recipients  to  serve  in  a  shortage  area.  The 
scholarships  were  dramatically  reduced,  beginning  in 
1981.  The  NHSC  now  operates  a  small  scholarship 
program,  a  program  to  recruit  providers  who  serve  in 
return  for  payment  of  their  educational  loans,  and 
demonstration  grants  to  develop  state  loan  repayment 
programs.  It  also  aids  C/MHCs  and  freestanding  sites 
in  retaining  existing  providers  and  recruiting  pri¬ 
vately.  FY  1989  funding  for  the  NHSC  was  approxi¬ 
mately  $49  million.  There  were  approximately  2,400 
physicians  providing  primary  care,  mostly  although 


not  exclusively  in  C/MHCs.  Forty-two  new  scholar¬ 
ships  were  awarded  in  FY  1989. 


Federal  Block  Grant  Programs 

There  are  two  Federal  Block  Grant  programs  that 
help  support  primary  care  services  to  underserved 
populations — the  Maternal  and  Child  Health  Services 
(MCH)  Block  Grant,  and  the  Preventive  Health  and 
Health  Services  (PHHS)  Block  Grant.  Under  these 
Block  Grant  programs,  Federal  dollars  are  channeled 
to  State  Health  Departments,  with  approximately  25 
to  30  percent  being  allocated  by  the  States  to  local 
health  departments.  In  FY  1989  $465.3  million  was 
allotted  under  the  MCH  Block  Grant  and  $84.3  mil¬ 
lion  was  awarded  under  the  PHHS  Block  Grant.44,  45 
Ways  in  which  State  and  local  health  departments  use 
these  monies  to  address  barriers  to  accessible  care  are 
described  later  in  this  paper. 


Programs  of  the  Indian  Health  Service 

The  Indian  Health  Service  (IHS)  is  the  principal 
Federal  health  resource  for  the  one  million  American 
Indians  and  Alaska  natives  living  on  or  near  Federal 
reservations  or  in  traditional  Indian  Territory.  The 
IHS  provides  primary  care  services  through  the  oper¬ 
ation  of  66  health  centers,  5  school  health  centers,  and 
approximately  100  smaller  health  stations  and  satellite 
clinics.  Additional  clinics  are  managed  by  tribes 
through  contracts  with  the  IHS.  They  operate  73 
health  centers,  2  school  health  centers,  and  approxi¬ 
mately  250  smaller  health  stations  and  satellite  clinics. 
The  IHS  also  contracts  with  Indian  Health  Organiza¬ 
tions  in  33  urban  reservations  with  an  estimated 
Indian  population  of  380,000.  These  projects  provide 
services  ranging  from  outreach  and  referral  to  direct 
provision  of  primary  care.  In  FY  1988,  over  1  million 
people  received  primary  care  services  through  these 
combined  programs  of  the  Indian  Health  Service.46 


State  and  Local  Health  Departments 

Each  State  has  an  established  Health  Department 
vested  with  the  primary  responsibility  for  public 
health.  There  are  nearly  3,000  local  health  depart- 

44  Budget  Appropriations  Act,  1989. 

45  Conference  Report  on  the  Department  of  Labor,  Health  and  Human 
Services,  Education,  and  Related  Agencies,  Appropriated  Bill  1990,  (101- 
354).  Centers  for  Disease  Control,  Preventive  Health  Services  Block  Grant 
(Washington,  D.C.),  27. 

48  Indian  Health  Service,  Public  Health  Service,  Department  of  Health 
and  Human  Services,  “Justifications  of  Budget  Estimates  to  OMB”  (Vol.  Ill), 
1,  56,  73. 


112 


ments  providing  direct  community  health  services.  In 
States  with  no  local  health  departments  the  State 
Health  Department  is  usually  the  primary  provider  of 
these  community  services. 

States  use  their  own  resources  plus  Federal  monies 
from  the  MCH  and  Preventive  Services  Block  Grants 
to  provide  a  variety  of  health  services.  In  order  to  re¬ 
ceive  their  MCH  block  grant  allocation,  States  are  re¬ 
quired  to  match  each  $4  of  Federal  funds  received 
with  $3  of  their  own  funds.47  There  is  no  matching 
requirement  for  the  PHHS  Block  grant. 

Many  State  and  local  health  department  efforts 
have  in  the  past  and  continue  to  be  characterized  by 
traditional  public  health  activities — discrete  single 
health  services  (e.g.,  immunizations),  usually  provided 
in  clinics  or  dispensaries.  Increasingly,  though,  health 
departments  are  broadening  their  mission  to  provide 
comprehensive  primary  care  services.  The  National 
Association  of  County  Health  Organizations  estimates 
that  approximately  25  percent  of  local  health  depart¬ 
ments  provide  organized  primary  care  services.  The 
Association  is  working  to  get  estimates  of  the  number 
of  persons  served  by  these  programs. 


The  Private  Sector 

Philanthropic  foundations  and  others  have  pio¬ 
neered  new  approaches  to  building  capacity  and 
reaching  high  risk  groups.  Also,  there  are  currently 
over  500  private,  non-Federally  funded  health  centers 
throughout  the  country  that  provide  comprehensive 
primary  care  services.48  However,  support  for  on¬ 
going  care  of  the  indigent  is  increasingly  unstable,  and 
the  cross-subsidies  of  the  poor  by  the  well-off  are  rap¬ 
idly  becoming  a  thing  of  the  past.  Data  could  not  be 
obtained  on  the  number  of  individuals  who  receive 
primary  care  services  through  private  clinics  and 
other  philanthropic  programs. 

Public  and  Non-Profit 
Community  Hospitals 

Hospitals  are  by  necessity  the  only  family  doctor  in 
many  urban  and  rural  areas.  Oftentimes,  because  pri¬ 
vate  physicians  are  unavailable  in  their  areas,  inner 
city  dwellers  (particularly  the  poor  and  minorities) 
rely  on  hospital  emergency  rooms  or  outpatient  de¬ 
partments  as  their  principal  source  of  primary  care. 

47  Edward  R.  Klebe,  Congressional  Research  Service,  The  Library  of 
Congress,  “Health  Services  Programs  for  Populations  in  Need,”  (August  17, 
1989),  2. 

48  National  Association  of  Community  Health  Centers  (unpublished  data, 
Washington,  D.C.:  October  27,  1989). 


As  noted  earlier,  the  poor  are  more  likely  than  the 
nonpoor  to  see  physicians  in  a  hospital  outpatient  de¬ 
partment  or  emergency  room  (19  percent  of  the  poor 
vs.  11.2  percent  of  the  non-poor).49  Also,  the  unin¬ 
sured  are  more  likely  than  any  other  group  to  use 
hospitals  for  primary  care.  The  American  Hospital 
Association  (AHA)  estimates  that  approximately  4.9 
million  uninsured  persons  rely  on  hospitals  for  such 
care.50  In  1987,  4,242  hospitals,  or  68  percent  of  the 
6,281  hospitals  responding  to  the  AHA  survey,  pro¬ 
vided  non-emergent  primary  care  services  through  an 
organized  outpatient  department.51 

The  hospitals  that  serve  many  of  these  patients  are 
facing  severe  financial  strains,  jeopardizing  their  ca¬ 
pacity  to  provide  care.  Services  in  hospital  clinics  are 
frequently  episodic  and  disease  oriented,  with  little 
continuity  or  coordination  among  the  various  spe¬ 
cialty  clinics,  let  alone  with  outside  agencies.52  This 
makes  care  costly  and  reduces  effectiveness.  Addi¬ 
tional  reasons  that  primary  care  delivered  in  hospital 
outpatient  departments  is  more  expensive  than  care 
delivered  in  a  free-standing  setting  include:  (1)  lack  of 
control  by  outpatient  department  directors  over  their 
own  costs;  (2)  the  degree  to  which  the  availability  of 
sophisticated  and  expensive  technology  within  the 
hospital  setting  encourages  its  utilization;  and  (3)  the 
fact  that  “sicker”  patients  tend  to  be  seen  in  out¬ 
patient  departments.53 

Responding  to  these  growing  financial  strains,  as 
well  as  to  the  increasing  numbers  of  people  who  are 
relying  on  hospitals  for  primary  care,  an  unknown 
number  of  both  public  and  not-for-profit  hospitals 
have  reorganized  their  outpatient  departments  and 
neighborhood  clinics  in  recent  years  to  provide  com¬ 
prehensive  primary  care,  as  opposed  to  episodic  care, 
in  a  variety  of  specialty  clinics  or  emergency  rooms. 


School  Based  Programs 

The  Center  for  Population  Options  reports  that 
there  are  150  school-based  health  centers  operating  in 
middle  or  junior  high  schools  and  senior  high  schools 
in  most  cities  as  well  as  in  many  rural  areas.  The 
number  is  somewhat  higher  if  centers  located  adjacent 
to  school  property  are  included.  This  group  is  work- 


49  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics,  Health,  United  States,  1988,  106. 

50  Irene  Frazer,  American  Hospital  Association,  Data  submitted  by  memo¬ 
randum  to  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (Chicago,  Ill.:  March 
23,  1990). 

51  Frazer,  memorandum. 

52  Diana  B.  Dutton,  Ph.D.,  “Children’s  Health  Care:  The  Myth  of  Equal 
Access,”  in  Better  Health  for  Our  Children,  The  Report  of  the  Select  Panel  for 
the  Promotion  of  Child  Health,  Vol.  IV  (1981),  382. 

53  Marsha  Gold,  “Hospital-Based  versus  Free-Standing  Primary  Care 
Cost,”  The  Journal  of  Ambulatory  Management,  2  (1)  (February  1979). 


113 


ing  to  get  estimates  of  the  number  of  young  persons 
served.  Clinics  are  located  in  32  states  and  91  commu¬ 
nities.  The  number  of  clinics  have  increased  five-fold 
since  1983.  These  clinics  serve  low-income,  predomi¬ 
nately  minority  youth  who  have  limited  access  to 
other  sources  of  health  care.  One-third  of  all  school 
based  clinic  users  have  no  health  insurance.  For  about 
a  half  of  all  enrolled  students,  school-based  health 
clinics  are  their  sole  or  primary  source  of  health  care. 
A  wide  range  of  medical  and  counseling  services  are 
provided,  including  primary  health  care  and  preven¬ 
tive  services.54 

School  based  health  centers  are  funded  by  a  variety 
of  public  and  private  sources.  In  1989  approximately 
two-thirds  of  the  funding  came  from  public  sources, 
including  States,  cities,  counties,  Block  Grants,  Med¬ 
icaid,  the  EPSDT  program,  and  school  districts.  A 
number  of  school  based  health  programs  are  part  of  a 
Federally  funded  health  center.  Foundations  are  virtu¬ 
ally  the  only  source  of  private  funding  for  school- 
based  health  clinics.  In  1989,  foundations  provided  31 
percent  of  total  funding,  down  from  41  percent  the 
previous  year.  Insurance  payments  and  patient  fees 
each  year  accounted  for  less  than  one  percent  of 
clinic  funding.55 


THE  EFFECTIVENESS  AND  IMPACT 
OF  EXISTING  PROGRAMS 

There  is  strong  evidence  that  the  existing  compre¬ 
hensive  primary  care  programs  described  above  have 
made  significant  inroads  in  reducing  barriers  to  the  re¬ 
ceipt  of  appropriate  health  care.  More  evidence  exists 
about  federally  funded  primary  care  centers  than 
about  other  programs.  However,  if  characteristics  of 
the  other  programs  are  similar,  it  should  be  possible 
to  assume  that  they  would  share  the  attributes  of  fed¬ 
erally  funded  centers.56  The  evidence  described 
below  is  presented  both  in  terms  of  specific  ways  in 
which  each  barrier  is  being  reduced,  and  improve¬ 
ments  in  health  status/outcome  measures. 


Reducing  Financial  Barriers 

Subsidized  primary  care  service  delivery  programs 
play  a  significant  role  in  serving  the  nation’s  poor. 


54  Claire  Brindis,  Dr.  P.H.,  “A  Synthesis  of  Recent  Evaluation  Findings 
On  School-Based  Health  Centers,”  presented  as  part  of  a  National  Health 
Policy  Forum  Workshop  (Washington  D.C.:  November  28,  1989),  1-2. 

55  Brindis,  “School-Based  Health  Centers,”  2. 

56  Bonnie  Lefkowitz  and  Dennis  Andrulis,  “The  Organization  of  Primary 
Health  and  Health  Related  Preventive,  Psychosocial,  and  Support  Services 
for  Children  and  Pregnant  Women,”  in  Better  Health  for  Our  Children,  The 
Report  of  the  Select  Panel  for  the  Promotion  of  Child  Health,  Vol.  IV  (1981), 
456. 


Approximately  60  percent  of  those  served  by  Feder¬ 
ally  funded  C/MHCs  have  incomes  under  the  poverty 
level,  and  another  25  percent  are  between  100  and 
200  percent  of  poverty.57  Similarly,  50  percent  of 
those  served  through  hospital  outpatient  and  health 
departments  are  poor.58  These  programs,  by  targeting 
to  underserved  groups,  care  for  the  uninsured  and 
make  Medicaid  a  reality  for  many  people  who,  al¬ 
though  Medicaid-eligible,  lack  access  to  a  provider. 


Reducing  Capacity /Resource  Barriers 

C/MHCs  are  required  to  be  in  the  underserved 
urban  and  rural  areas  in  the  United  States  with  the 
most  substantial  shortfalls  of  primary  care  providers. 
In  addition,  evidence  suggests  that  both  urban  and 
rural  centers  have  increased  the  utilization  of  health 
services.59,  60,  61  Similarly,  hospital  outpatient  de¬ 
partments  and  local  health  departments  lower  access 
barriers  by  their  locations  in  underserved  areas. 

The  NHSC  scholarship  and  loan  repayment  pro¬ 
grams  attract  physicians  to  underserved  communities. 
Priority  of  selection  of  scholarship  and  loan  repay¬ 
ment  recipients  goes  to  individuals  with  backgrounds 
and  interests  compatible  to  practice  in  underserved 
areas,  and  to  individuals  enrolled  in  institutions  that 
have  a  history  of  producing  large  numbers  of  primary 
care  physicians  and  who  have  an  emphasis  on  care  to 
underserved  populations.  C/MHCs  affiliate  with  hos¬ 
pital  residency  programs,  especially  in  family  medi¬ 
cine  and  other  primary  care  specialties,  in  order  to 
receive  direct  services  from  residents,  recruit  them 
as  future  staff  members,  and  improve  the  retention  of 
C/MHC  physicians  who  value  the  hospital  affiliation 
and  its  teaching  opportunities.  Notable  examples  are 
found  in  Seattle,  Washington  and  Bronx,  New  York. 

Federal  primary  care  programs  also  help  build  sys¬ 
tems  of  care  in  underserved  areas  by  collaborating 
with  State  and  local  health  departments  through  State 
Cooperative  Agreements  and  Primary  Care  Associa¬ 
tions  and  local  coalitions.  The  goal  of  these  collabora¬ 
tive  efforts  is  to  ensure  the  availability  of  primary 


57  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  16. 

58  M.G.  Kovar,  "Background  Paper  for  the  Select  Panel  for  the  Promo¬ 
tion  of  Child  Health,”  (unpublished  data  from  the  National  Health  Interview 
Survey  for  1974,  Washington,  D.C.:  1980). 

59  R.A.  Reynolds,  “Improving  Access  to  Health  Care  Among  the  Poor — 
The  Neighborhood  Health  Center  Experience,”  Milbank  Memorial  Fund 
Quarterly:  Health  and  Society  54  (Winter  1976):  47-82. 

80  H.  Snyder,  et  al.,  “The  Effect  of  Provision  of  Medical  Facilities  on  Use 
by  the  Migrant  Workers  in  California,”  Medical  Care  6  (September -October, 
1968):  394-400. 

61  G.  Sparer  and  L.M.  Okada,  “Chronic  Conditions  and  Physician  Use 
Patterns  in  Ten  Urban  Poverty  Areas,”  Medical  Care  12  (July  1974):  549-560. 


114 


care  services  and  case  management,  while  avoiding 
duplication. 


Reducing  Organizational/Operational 
Barriers 

A  number  of  service  delivery  programs,  in  conjunc¬ 
tion  with  State  and  local  health  departments,  are 
working  to  coordinate  services  and  resources  avail¬ 
able  from  multiple  and  varied  programs,  thus  enhanc¬ 
ing  the  accessibility  of  service  delivery.  This  includes 
case  management  of  the  medical  continuum,  as  well 
as  of  a  broad  range  of  welfare  and  other  support  serv¬ 
ices.  The  Office  of  Maternal  and  Child  Health  is  cur¬ 
rently  funding  demonstration  projects  to  implement 
one-stop  shopping  programs  at  C/MHCs  and  other 
sites.  This  involves  co-location  of  health,  social,  and 
welfare  services  from  different  agencies  in  the  same 
physical  location.  C/MHCs  have  historically  jointly 
addressed  the  social  and  clinical  aspects  of  health 
care.  Currently,  113  C/MHCs  receive  WIC  funding, 
and  many  more  provide  WIC  services  directly  or  by 
arrangement.  Three  to  four  demonstration  projects  of 
new  one-stop  shopping  approaches  are  planned  for 
FY  1990.  Finally,  35  State  and  Regional  Primary 
Care  Associations  and  33  State  Primary  Care  Cooper¬ 
ative  Agreements  are  working  with  their  respective 
States  on  presumptive  and  on-site  Medicaid  eligibil¬ 
ity.  C/MHCs  in  at  least  20  States  are  eligibility  deter¬ 
mination  sites. 

These  efforts  to  coordinate  various  programs  help 
to  avoid  duplication,  and  increase  the  likelihood  that 
individuals  will  access  all  that  is  available  to  them. 
Such  integration  is  critical  to  a  disadvantaged  popula¬ 
tion  faced  with  a  patchwork  of  programs  at  different 
sites  and  with  oftentimes  inconsistent  requirements. 


Reducing  Cultural/Social  Barriers 

Subsidized  service  delivery  programs  have  effec¬ 
tively  focused  their  efforts  on  minority  groups.  Ap¬ 
proximately  64  percent  of  those  served  by  CHCs  are 
members  of  minority  groups,  and  those  served  by 
MHCs  are  50  percent  Hispanic  and  35  percent 
black.62’  63  Similarly,  over  50  percent  of  those  served 
by  hospital  outpatient  and  health  departments  are  mi¬ 
norities.64  Finally,  there  is  considerable  support  for 


62  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  16. 

63  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  "The  Bureau's 
Unique  Role,”  16. 

64  Kovar,  “Background  Paper  for  the  Select  Panel  for  the  Promotion  of 
Child  Health.” 


education  of  minority  health  professionals,  since  these 
professionals  often  serve  minority,  underserved  popu¬ 
lations.  The  NHSC  recruitment  program  has  devel¬ 
oped  a  recruitment  plan  to  increase  the  number  of 
Hispanic  officers  by  150  within  2  years.  Additionally, 
the  National  Medical  Association,  under  a  contract 
with  the  Health  Services  and  Resources  Administra¬ 
tion,  actively  promotes  education  for  minority  health 
professionals  by  visiting  and  providing  informational 
materials  to  minority  students  in  colleges. 

In  addition  to  the  delivery  of  medical  care,  primary 
care  programs  can  offer  a  wide  range  of  outreach 
services  which  facilitate  the  receipt  of  care  which  is 
available.  C/MHCs  are  governed  by  consumer-based 
Boards  of  Directors.  These  volunteers,  who  represent 
a  broad  spectrum  of  community  concerns,  encourage 
outreach  activities  which  will  help  to  ensure  cultur¬ 
ally  sensitive  and  appropriate  care.  Examples  of  inno¬ 
vative  approaches  of  C/MHCs  to  outreach  are  a 
“mom-mobile”  for  Indianapolis  centers  and  use  of  ath¬ 
lete  celebrities  to  reach  school  aged  youth  in  Detroit. 

The  effectiveness  of  culturally  sensitive  outreach 
services  is  illustrated  by  a  1974  study  which  com¬ 
pared  pregnant  women  who  used  health  centers  with 
outreach  services,  traditional  hospital  outpatient  de¬ 
partments,  and  Medicaid  physicians,  and  found  that 
the  women  who  used  health  centers  were  most  likely 
to  be  satisfied  with  their  obstetric  and  pediatric  care 
and  most  likely  to  make  postnatal  visits.65  More  re¬ 
cently,  several  CHCs  in  Pennsylvania  which  sponsor 
lay  home  visiting  programs  have  shown  that  since  im¬ 
plementation  of  home  visiting  services,  the  rates  of 
prenatal  visit  compliance,  the  return  rate  for  post¬ 
partum  care,  returns  for  routine  pediatric  care,  attend¬ 
ance  at  prenatal  and  parenting  classes,  compliance 
with  family  planning  appointments  and  WIC  registra¬ 
tion  have  all  improved.66 

In  addition  to  outreach  activities,  primary  care  pro¬ 
grams  can  provide  a  wide  range  of  social  services 
which  address  language,  educational,  environmental, 
and  other  cultural  barriers.  An  example  is  the 
“Women’s  Residential  Program,”  offered  by  the  Eco¬ 
nomic  Opportunity  Family  Health  Center  in  Miami, 
Florida.  This  program,  which  was  developed  to  re¬ 
spond  to  the  problem  of  substance  abuse  among 
women  of  child-bearing  age,  provides  detoxification 
and  preventive  health  services  (i.e.,  individual  and 
group  therapy)  as  well  as  GED  preparation,  job  train¬ 
ing  and  placement,  parenting  education  and  coun- 


65  J.  Birch,  and  S.  Wolfe,  “New  and  Traditional  Sources  of  Care  Evalu¬ 
ated  by  Recently  Pregnant  Women,”  Public  Health  Reports  91  (September- 
October,  1976):  412-422. 

66  Marcella  E.  Lingham,  Ed.D.,  Letter  to  Natalie  Levkovich,  Quality 
Community  Health  Care,  Inc.  (Philadelphia,  Pa.:  November  13,  1989). 


115 


seling,  long-term  follow-up,  and  child  care  on  the 
premises.  As  another  example,  Beaufort-Jasper 
Comprehensive  Health  Services,  in  South  Carolina, 
provides  a  broad  range  of  medical  as  well  as  social 
support  services  in  a  community  with  a  very  high 
infant  mortality  rate,  and  predominantly  poor  resi¬ 
dents.  A  high  proportion  of  the  population  lives  in 
substandard  housing.  In  addition  to  health  care,  the 
center  provides  environmental  services.  One  very  tan¬ 
gible  result,  which  has  an  obvious  impact  on  health 
status,  is  the  fact  that  the  center  has  installed  or  up¬ 
dated  well  over  100  water  systems  for  families  who 
previously  had  poor  water  systems  supplies.67 


Clinical  Outcomes/Health  Status 

A  number  of  studies  have  shown  that,  in  their 
impact  on  the  underserved  families  they  were  in¬ 
tended  to  serve,  primary  care  programs  have  been 
quite  successful.  Many  of  these  studies  included  con¬ 
trol  groups  who  used  Medicaid  but  not  a  service  de¬ 
livery  program.  Unfortunately,  most  of  the  research 
noted  below  was  conducted  in  the  1970s  and  early 
1980s.  There  has  been  little  analysis  on  the  effective¬ 
ness  of  primary  care  models  in  the  last  ten  years. 

Efficiency  and  Cost-Effectiveness — CHC  patients 
have  lower  hospital  admission  rates,  shorter  lengths  of 
stay,  and  make  less  inappropriate  use  of  emergency 
rooms  than  similar  patients  not  using  CHCs.68,  69  For 
example,  an  extensive  study  in  five  cities  found  hospi¬ 
tal  days  were  reduced  by  25  percent  for  child  and 
adult  users  of  CHCs  compared  with  all  similar 
nonusers  in  control  groups  and  22  percent  for  users 
compared  with  those  in  control  groups  using  a  private 
physician.70  Similar  results  have  been  found  by 
others.  The  effect  of  primary  care  service  delivery 
programs  was  demonstrated  in  a  three-city  study 
which  found  that  Medicaid  recipients  who  were  users 
of  community  health  centers  had  total  annual  Medi¬ 
caid  costs  of  6-58  percent  less  than  a  control  group 
of  Medicaid  recipients  who  relied  on  hospitals  and 
private  physicians  for  their  usual  source  of  care.71 
Additionally,  emergency  room  visits  by  children  were 
reduced  38  percent  by  primary  care  centers  in 


87  Lefkowitz  and  Andrulis,  “The  Organization  of  Primary  Health  Serv¬ 
ices,”  Better  Health  for  Our  Children,  475. 

68  Schorr,  Within  Our  Reach,  132. 

69  Andrea  McCrensky-Kremer  and  Richard  Kremer,  “Overview  of  DRGs: 
What  they  are  and  How  They  Work,”  (draft  unpublished  report,  Harrisburg, 
Pa.:  September  27,  1989),  13-15. 

70  L.M.  Okada  and  T.  Wan,  “Patterns  of  Health  Services  Utilization  in 
Urban  Low  Income  Areas.”  Paper  presented  to  the  Institute  of  Management 
Science/Operations  Research  Society  of  America,  Joint  National  Meeting, 
New  Orleans,  La.:  April  30-May  2,  1979. 

7 1  The  Bureau  of  Health  Care  Delivery  and  Assistance,  “The  Bureau’s 
Unique  Role,”  21. 


Rochester.72  Where  hospital  outpatient  departments 
resemble  comprehensive  primary  care  centers  in  serv¬ 
ices  and  organization,  similar  findings  have  been 
noted.  For  example,  one  study  shows  that  users  of  a 
hospital-based  health  center  in  Boston  had  signifi¬ 
cantly  lower  use  of  emergency  rooms  than 
nonusers.73 

Infant  Mortality — Health  centers  have  a  beneficial 
and  statistically  significant  effect  on  both  white  and 
black  infant  mortality  rates.  In  a  nationwide  analysis, 
counties  served  by  health  centers  have  been  found  to 
have  white  infant  mortality  rates  that  are  1.5/1,000 
lower,  and  black  infant  mortality  rates  that  were 
2.9/1,000  lower,  than  those  in  surrounding  counties. 
Counties  with  four  or  more  health  centers  were  found 
to  have  infant  mortality  rates  as  much  as  10  percent 
lower  than  counties  with  no  health  centers.74 

The  provision  of  comprehensive  primary  care  serv¬ 
ices  by  health  departments  has  also  been  associated 
with  improvements  in  the  area  of  low  birth  weight 
and  infant  mortality.75  For  example,  between  1970 
and  1978,  the  Cincinnati  Health  Department  reduced 
infant  mortality  by  eight  percent.  Also,  during  pro¬ 
vision  of  primary  care  services  between  1970  and 
1977,  Maricopa  County  (Arizona)  had  its  low  birth 
weight  rate  reduced  by  16  percent,  and  Pickens 
County  (South  Carolina)  had  its  nonwhite  infant  mor¬ 
tality  rate  reduced  by  38  percent,  from  40.7  to  25.3, 
between  1970  and  1973.  Finally,  Denver’s  Neighbor¬ 
hood  Health  Program  (a  joint  CHC/health  depart¬ 
ment  effort)  resulted  in  a  2  5 -percent  reduction  in 
infant  mortality.76 

Childhood  Diseases — Primary  care  programs  have 
reduced  rheumatic  fever  and  untreated  middle  ear  in¬ 
fections,  and  have  brought  about  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  immunized  children.  For  example,  one 
study  attributes  a  60  percent  decrease  in  rheumatic 
fever  in  Baltimore  areas  served  by  primary  care  cen¬ 
ters  to  early  detection  and  treatment  of  streptococcal 
infections.77,  78 


72L.E.  Hochheiser,  “Effect  of  the  Neighborhood  Health  Center  on  the 
Use  of  Pediatric  Emergency  Departments  in  Rochester,  New  York,”  New 
England  Journal  of  Medicine  285  (1971):  148-152. 

73  E.J.  Sussman,  “Can  Primary  Care  Deliver?”  Journal  of  Ambulatory  Care 
Management  2  (August  1979):  23-29. 

74  Michael  Grossman,  Ph.D.,  and  Fred  Goldman,  Ph.D.,  “An  Economic 
Analysis  of  Community  Health  Centers,”  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Re¬ 
search  (January  1983). 

75  Lefkowitz  and  Andrulis,  “The  Organization  of  Primary  Health  Serv¬ 
ices,”  Better  Health  for  Our  Children,  460. 

76  A.  Chabot,  “Improved  Infant  Mortality  Rates  in  a  Population  Served  by 
a  Comprehensive  Neighborhood  Health  Program,”  Pediatrics  47  (June  1971): 
989-994. 

77  Schorr,  Within  Our  Reach,  132. 

78  L.  Gordis,  “Effectiveness  of  Comprehensive  Care  Programs  in  Prevent¬ 
ing  Rheumatic  Fever,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  290(8)  (August  16, 
1973):  330-336. 


116 


Clinical  Management — Studies  of  clinical  manage¬ 
ment  and  quality  of  care,  measured  by  recordkeeping, 
indicate  that  Federal  primary  care  programs  are  at 
least  equal  and  sometimes  superior  to  other  estab¬ 
lished  providers,  including  private  physicians,  and 
that  health  department  primary  care  programs  are  su¬ 
perior  to  private  physicians  and  outpatient  depart¬ 
ments.79,  80,  81  Many  Federal  primary  care  centers 
pioneered  the  team  approach  as  well  and  have  found 
it  effective.82,  83,  84 

Social  Services — Social  support  services  offered 
through  primary  care  programs  are  critical  in  protect¬ 
ing  an  individual’s  health.  For  example,  programs  to 
counteract  certain  environmental  hazards  through  or¬ 
ganized  health  settings  have  been  effective  in  reduc¬ 
ing  morbidity  and  mortality.85,  86 


FUTURE  DIRECTIONS 

Although  the  successes  to  date  are  encouraging, 
more  remains  to  be  done.  A  range  of  activities  is 
needed  to  reduce  barriers  to  care,  and  ultimately  im¬ 
prove  health  status.  These  activities,  for  the  most  part, 
are  not  new.  They  are  currently  being  implemented  at 
innovative  organized  primary  care  delivery  sites. 
However,  implementation  is  far  from  universal.  A 
model  for  reform,  which  describes  an  optimal  con¬ 
tinuum  of  activities,  is  described  below.  Additionally, 
the  interaction  between  financing  and  delivery  system 
reform  is  discussed.  Finally,  strategies  for  continued 
targeted  direct  support  of  organized  primary  care  de¬ 
livery  programs  are  presented. 


79  M.A.  Morehead,  R.S.  Donaldson,  and  Ml  Servalli,  “Comparisons  Be¬ 
tween  OEO  Neighborhood  Health  Centers  and  Other  Health  Care  Providers 
of  Ratings  of  the  Quality  of  Health  Care,”  American  Journal  of  Public  Health 
61(7)  (July  1971):  1294-1306. 

80  M.A.  Morehead  and  R.S.  Donaldson,  “Quality  of  Clinical  Management 
of  Disease  in  Comprehensive  Neighborhood  Health  Centers,”  Medical  Care 
12  (1974),  301-315. 

81  M.A.  Morehead,  Final  Report  1968-1976  of  Review  of  Federally  Sup¬ 
ported  Neighborhood  Health  Centers,  Contract  Number  105-74-170  (Albert 
Einstein  College  of  Medicine,  Bronx,  N.Y.:  1977). 

82  Morehead,  “Review  of  Federally  Supported  Neighborhood 
Health  Centers.” 

88  M.H.  Becker,  R.H.  Drachtnan,  and  J.P.  Kirscht,  “A  Field  Experiment 
to  Evaluate  Various  Outcomes  of  Continuity  of  Medical  Care,  American 
Journal  of  Public  Health,  64  (November  1974):  1062-1070. 

84  K.  Davis  and  R.  Marshall,  “Personal  Health  Care  Services  for  Medi¬ 
cally  Underserved  Populations,”  Papers  on  the  National  Health  Planning 
Guidelines,  Health  Resources  and  Services  Administration,  Department  of 
Health  and  Human  Services  (Washington,  D.C.:  1977). 

85  C.  Spiegel  and  F.  Lindaman,  “Children  Can’t  Fly:  A  Program  to  Pre¬ 
vent  Pregnant  Childhood  Morbidity  and  Mortality  From  Window  Falls,” 
American  Journal  of  Public  Health  67  (1977):  1143-1146. 

88  P.  Peacock,  A.  Gelman,  and  T.  Lutins,  "Preventive  Health  Care 
Strategies  for  Health  Maintenance  Organization,  Preventive  Medicine  4 
(1975):  183-225. 


Model  for  Addressing  Barriers 

For  optimum  effectiveness,  a  model  service  de¬ 
livery  program  would  include  the  components 
described  below. 

Medical  Primary  Care — Comprehensive  medical 
primary  care  should  be  offered  in  an  environment  that 
is  physically  accessible  to  the  population  it  is  intended 
to  serve,  and  that  has  a  sufficient  number  of  appropri¬ 
ately  trained  professionals  who  are  sensitive  to  cul¬ 
tural,  ethnic,  and  language  differences. 

For  many  services,  the  manner  of  delivery  is  as 
important  as  the  fact  of  delivery.  For  this  reason,  in 
addition  to  increasing  the  numbers  of  health  care  pro¬ 
viders,  organized  primary  care  programs  should  in¬ 
crease  efforts  to  recruit  and/or  train  professionals  that 
are  perceived  by  those  they  serve  as  people  who  care 
about  them  and  respect  them.  Schorr  states  in  Within 
Our  Reach  that  “staff  must  be  able  to  respond  to  the 
individual  needs  of  those  they  serve.  The  nature  of 
their  services,  the  terms  on  which  they  are  offered, 
the  relationships  with  families,  the  essence  of  the  pro¬ 
grams  themselves — all  take  their  shape  from  the  needs 
of  those  they  serve,  rather  than  from  the  pre¬ 
cepts,  demands,  and  boundaries  set  by  professionalism 
and  bureaucracies.”  87 

Case  Management  and  Coordination  of  Services — 

Case  management  activities  should  include  proper  and 
timely  referrals  to  medical  specialists,  as  well  as  to 
programs  for  mental  health  and  substance  abuse  serv¬ 
ices.  Additionally,  there  should  be  case  management, 
and  where  possible,  co-location  of  a  broad  range  of 
welfare  and  other  support  services,  including  income 
support,  housing,  and  job  training.  Successful  pro¬ 
grams  are  those  that  provide  services  that  are  coher¬ 
ent  and  easy  to  use.  Relying  too  heavily  on  referrals 
to  other  agencies  interferes  with  getting  needed  serv¬ 
ices.88  Thus  efforts  to  integrate  services  should  in 
particular  encourage  co-location  of  related  services 
and  development  of  common  eligibility  requirements, 
rather  than  simply  an  active  referral  network.  The 
importance  of  integrating  a  wide  range  of  available 
services  has  been  noted  by  David  Rogers,  former 
President  of  the  Robert  Wood  Johnson  Foundation. 
He  states  that  service  programs  cannot  respond  to 
intertwined  and  interconnected  needs  without 
regularly  “crossing  traditional  professional  and  bu¬ 
reaucratic  boundaries.”  89  Other  support  services  are 
necessary  to  encourage  at  risk  populations  to  maintain 
participation  in  care,  and  arrange  for  additional  care 


87  Schorr,  Within  Our  Reach  259,  269,  278. 

88  Schorr,  Within  Our  Reach  258. 

89  Schorr,  Within  Our  Reach  257. 


117 


as  needed.  Examples  of  such  services  which  organized 
primary  care  programs  should  work  to  enhance  in¬ 
clude  on-site  day  care,  health  education  programs,  bi¬ 
lingual  services,  and  environmental  services. 

Community  Outreach — In  order  for  needy  popula¬ 
tions  to  best  benefit  from  the  facilities,  services,  and 
coordinating  systems  which  may  be  in  place,  it  is  crit¬ 
ical  that  there  be  a  strong  outreach  program  which 
fosters  health  prevention  and  promotion  behavior,  en¬ 
courages  early  entry  into  the  health  and  social  serv¬ 
ices  systems,  and  includes  rigorous  and  continuous 
follow-up  activities.  These  outreach  activities  are 
more  effective  if  they  are  linked  to  a  service  delivery 
program,  rather  than  existing  independently.  The  so¬ 
lution  lies  in  helping  communities  implement  their 
own  change  in  health  behaviors,  so  that  available 
services  and  resources  will  be  used  more  often,  and 
more  effectively.  Ways  for  primary  care  service  de¬ 
livery  programs  to  increase  their  outreach  efforts 
include  use  of  volunteer  outreach  workers,  public  in¬ 
formation  campaigns  directed  at  high-risk  groups, 
telephone  hotline  services,  transportation  and  home 
visiting  programs,  and  periodic  review  of  office  or 
clinic  procedures  to  make  certain  that  access  is  easy 
and  prompt,  bureaucratic  requirements  minimal,  and 
the  atmosphere  welcoming.90 

Community  Input  and  Responsiveness — Primary  care 
programs  should  address  unique  local  circumstances 
and  health  care  problems,  and  should  be  flexible 
enough  to  meet  the  diverse  needs  of  the  underserved. 

Evaluation — There  has  been  a  recent  dearth  of 
studies  on  the  effectiveness  of  primary  care  models 
and  services.  Part  of  any  model  should  be  the  capabil¬ 
ity  to  study  reforms  and  provide  short  term  feedback 
and  longer  term  evaluation  of  impact. 

The  Interaction  Between  Financing  and 
Delivery  System  Reform 

Expanding  health  care  insurance  coverage  should 
reinforce — not  replace — support  for  primary  care  de¬ 
livery  systems.  Specifically,  insurers  should  not  be  al¬ 
lowed  to  discriminate  against  subsidized  organized 
settings  such  as  CHCs.  Currently,  organized  programs 
may  not  be  recognized  as  providers  by  insurers  or 
HMOs,  and  if  they  are  recognized  they  may  be  paid 
only  for  physician  services  rather  than  via  an  in¬ 
stitutional  rate.  Depending  on  their  design,  financing 
reforms  can  increase  the  capacity  of  direct  delivery 


90  Sarah  S.  Brown,  Ed.,  Prenatal  Care:  Reaching  Mothers,  Reaching  In¬ 
fants — Summary  and  Recommendations  (Washington,  D.C.:  Institute  of  Medi¬ 
cine,  National  Academy  Press,  1988),  14. 


providers.  If  insurance  covers  patients  previously  un¬ 
insured  or  underinsured,  delivery  systems  can  then 
use  their  State,  Federal  or  private  funds  to  develop 
additional  facilities,  to  expand  types  of  services  and 
the  number  of  patients  served  at  existing  facilities,  and 
to  provide  additional  outreach  and  case  management 
services.  These  support  and  facilitating  services  are 
often  not  appropriate  for  reimbursement  through  a 
general  insurance  program  because  they  are  difficult 
for  insurers  to  validate  and  control. 

Recent  Federal  financing  legislation  has  been 
moving  in  directions  which  will  increase  Medicaid  re¬ 
imbursement  to  community  based  programs,  and 
therefore  enhance  their  ability  to  use  other  funds  to 
reduce  barriers  to  care.  Specifically,  the  Medicaid 
program  has  been  revised  several  times  to  expand  eli¬ 
gibility  to  mothers  and  young  children.  Also,  under 
the  Reconciliation  Act  just  passed  by  the  Congress, 
effective  April,  1990,  all  Federally  funded  C/MHCs 
as  well  as  other  primary  care  centers  that  meet  similar 
qualifications  will  be  reimbursed  by  Medicaid  at  100 
percent  of  reasonable  costs.  Additionally,  effective 
April  1990,  centers  in  all  States  are  recognized  as  a 
provider  for  purposes  of  Medicaid  reimbursement. 
Unlike  the  previous  rules,  in  which  CHCs  in  certain 
States  have  been  paid  based  on  individual  physician 
fees  and/or  rates  considerably  less  than  cost,  the  new 
legislation  acknowledges  and  pays  for  the  increased 
expenses  associated  with  providing  comprehensive, 
case-coordinated  primary  care. 

Table  1  illustrates  the  relationship  between  Feder¬ 
ally  funded  C/MHCs  and  financing  reforms.  With  sig¬ 
nificant  increases  in  insurance  coverage,  for  the  same 
amount  of  grant  funds,  the  number  of  persons  served 
could  be  increased  from  6.2  to  8.4  million  and  the 
range  of  services  increased  to  provide  outreach,  pre¬ 
vention  and  support  services  for  all  users.  This  as¬ 
sumes  that  (1)  insurance  will  cover  clinical  services 
and  case  management  for  all  persons  served,  (2)  grant 
or  other  funds  will  be  used  for  special  outreach, 
health  promotion/disease  prevention,  support  and  fa¬ 
cilitating  services,  and  (3)  the  total  number  of  users  is 
determined  by  the  availability  of  grant  and  other 
funds. 


Delivery  Reform 

Financing  reforms  are  necessary  but  not  sufficient 
in  improving  access  to  health  care.  Even  if  com¬ 
prehensive  health  care  were  financed  completely  for 
everyone,  non-financial  barriers  would  still  prevent 
many  people  from  receiving  effective,  timely,  care. 
The  inadequacy  of  financing  reforms  alone  was  noted 


118 


by  the  National  Governors  Association  (NGA)  fol¬ 
lowing  the  recent  implementation  by  many  States  of 
Medicaid  expansions  for  pregnant  women  and  their 
infants.  Specifically,  the  NGA  found  that  some  com¬ 
munities  in  isolated  rural  or  high  risk  inner  city  areas 
lacked  health  care  providers  and  facilities.  Even 
where  there  were  providers,  many  physicians  in  the 
private  sector  were  unwilling  or  unable  to  take  on  ad¬ 
ditional  patients,  and  continuity  of  care  was  fre¬ 
quently  lacking.  They  were  not  prepared  to  offer  the 
broad  spectrum  of  preventive,  support  and  facilitating 
services  needed  by  a  disadvantaged  population.91 
Gail  Wilensky  has  similarly  noted  that  insurance 
schemes  alone  are  insufficient.  She  has  stated  that 
“For  some  populations — those  who  are  difficult  to 
reach  or  have  special  needs  .  .  .  specially  targeted 
programs  directed  to  providers  who  are  trained  and 
equipped  to  deal  with  these  special  populations  are 
likely  to  be  more  efficient  and  effective  than  general¬ 
ized  insurance  programs.”  92 


Table  1  How  Increased  Reimbursement  Affects 
Capacity  and  Services  in  C/MHCs 


Current  Policy 
(1988) 

Full 

Implementation 
of  Reforms 
Enacted  in  1989 

Full  Insurance 
Coverage  of  All 
Persons  and  All 
Clinical  Services 

Federal  Grant . 

$440m . 

..  S480m . 

$48  Om 

Patient/Third  Party 

417 . 

457 . 

1,192 

Payments. 

Other  Funds . 

158 . 

J  158 . 

158 

Total  Revenues... 

1,015 . 

..  1,095 . 

1,830 

Persons  Served . 

5.7  million. 

6.2  million... 

8.4  million 

Cost/person . 

$178 . 

..  SI  78 . 

S218 

1.  Figures  are  not  adjusted  tor  inflation 

2.  Clinical  services  represent  80%  of  total  costs  currently  in  columns  1  and  2; 
65%  in  column  3.  In  column  1  the  total  cost  per  person  is  Si  78,  of  which  clinical 
costs  are  80%  of  that  or  $142.  $142  is  65%  of  $218,  the  cost/person  in  column  3. 
This  increase  in  cost/person  from  $178  to  $218  reflects  increased  outreach  and 
support  services. 

3.  Federal  grant  funds  in  columns  2  and  3  based  on  FY  1990  appropriation  less 
program  support  and  lag  in  outlays  for  calendar  year. 

Direct  support  of  organized  primary  care  programs 
is  required  to  meet  the  special  needs  of  certain  popu¬ 
lation  groups  whose  needs  cannot  be  met  solely 
through  the  provision  of  private  or  public  health  in¬ 
surance.  Strategies  for  this  support  are  described 
below. 

Facilities — Support  for  organized  primary  care  de¬ 
livery  systems  should  be  maintained  at  a  level  which, 
in  conjunction  with  financing  reforms,  allows  an  in¬ 
crease  in  the  number  of  sites,  as  well  as  increases  in 


91  Ian  T.  Hill,  “Broadening  Medicaid  Coverage  for  Pregnant  Women  and 
Children."  State  Policy  Responses  (Washington.  D.C.:  National  Governors 
Association,  1988). 

Gail  Wilensky.  "Filling  the  Gaps  in  Health  Insurance,"  Health  Affairs  7 
(Summer  1988):  141. 


the  capacity  of  existing  sites  to  serve  additional  per¬ 
sons.  This  could  be  linked  to  the  concept  of  ensuring 
that  underserved  populations  have  a  provider  of  last 
resort  (i.e.,  local  health  department,  freestanding 
clinic,  reformed  hospital  outpatient  department,  or 
C/MHC). 

Personnel — Manpower  development  should  be 
aimed  at  attracting  and  retaining  health  professionals 
in  minority  and  other  underserved  areas.  Strategies 
might  include:  (1)  continued  support  of  existing  pro¬ 
grams  such  as  the  National  Health  Service  Corps  and 
minority  health  education  programs;  (2)  promotion  of 
the  appropriate  use  of  mid-level  health  professionals, 
through  the  development  of  model  state  practice  acts; 
(3)  examining  proposals  to  address  problems  regard¬ 
ing  professional  liability  and  (4)  development  of  pro¬ 
fessional  support  networks  (e.g.,  telecommunications 
networks  with  other  providers  to  provide  adequate 
backup  and  support  services). 

Outreach  and  Support  Services — There  should  be 
targeted  support  for  the  development  and  delivery  of 
innovative  outreach  and  other  social  and  support 
services  which  will  facilitate  access  to  and  continued 
participation  in  health  care.  Strategies  might  include, 
but  not  be  limited  to:  (1)  demonstration  grants  to 
enlist  volunteers  from  the  community,  along  with  the 
training  and  management  necessary  to  ensure  appro¬ 
priate  use  and  retention  of  volunteers;  (2)  encouraging 
communities  to  provide  free  or  reduced-cost  trans¬ 
portation  for  pregnant  women  and  other  high  risk, 
underserved  groups;  and  (3)  working  with  States  and 
localities  to  promote  availability  of  home  visits  by 
public  health  nurses  in  underserved  areas. 

Coordination — Coordination  could  be  improved 
through  increased  Federal  financial,  administrative 
and  technical  assistance  support  for  coordination  and 
co-location  of  services  for  underserved  groups,  par¬ 
ticularly  vulnerable  special  population  subgroups  such 
as  the  homeless,  pregnant  women,  and  substance 
abusers.  This  includes  support  for  (1)  establishing  one- 
stop  shopping  programs  within  C/MHCs  and  local 
health  departments,  and  (2)  simplifying  and  standard¬ 
izing  eligibility  requirements  and  procedures  for 
public  programs. 

Evaluation  and  Research — In  order  to  ensure  effec¬ 
tive  and  efficient  use  of  resources,  the  Federal  Gov¬ 
ernment  should  promote  the  development  of  systems 
to  assess  continuing  gaps  in  access  to  care,  help  plan 
for  a  provider  of  last  resort  in  every  high  need  under- 
served  area,  and  evaluate  existing  programs  for  their 
cost  effectiveness  and  impact  on  health  status. 


119 


. 


LIMITING  FAVORED  TAX  TREATMENT  FOR 
EMPLOYEE  HEALTH  INSURANCE 


Marilyn  Moon,  Ph.D.* 


Proposals  to  expand  health  care  coverage  to  the  un¬ 
insured  often  suggest  as  a  source  of  revenue  a  reduc¬ 
tion  in  the  tax  preferences  given  to  those  who  have 
employer-paid  coverage.  Current  tax  law  allows  em¬ 
ployers  to  deduct  their  contributions  to  health  insur¬ 
ance  for  employees  as  a  cost  of  doing  business,  and 
employees  are  not  required  to  declare  this  benefit  as 
taxable  income.  Consequently,  such  benefits  are  not 
taken  into  account  for  either  personal  income  or  pay¬ 
roll  (Social  Security)  taxes.  The  total  revenue  loss  for 
both  the  employer  and  employee  exclusions  is  pro¬ 
jected  to  be  about  $35  billion  in  1989. 

All  or  a  part  of  the  health  insurance  premium  paid 
by  the  employer  could  be  treated  as  income  and  sub¬ 
jected  to  the  personal  income  tax.  The  most  popular 
proposal  for  taxation  of  health  insurance  is  the  “tax 
cap”  approach.  This  approach  would,  for  example, 
allow  the  continued  exclusion  from  income  of  a  por¬ 
tion  of  the  health  insurance  premium,  say  $250  per 
month  for  family  coverage,  and  tax  only  amounts 
above  that  level.  In  that  way,  many  employees  would 
continue  to  receive  a  tax  free  subsidy  toward  their  in¬ 
surance  costs,  while  very  expensive  policies  would  be 
partially  taxed. 

Tax  preferences  for  health  insurance  coverage  have 
helped  to  stimulate  employer  participation  and  hence 
avoid  the  necessity  for  more  public  sector  activity.  In 
addition,  because  insurance  represents  an  “in-kind” 
benefit,  taxing  it  would  ask  individuals  to  pay  in  cash 
for  a  benefit  that  came  in  a  restricted  form  (as  insur¬ 
ance,  not  cash).  The  principle  of  not  taxing  such  in- 
kind  benefits  has  been  long-standing,  although  options 
for  taxing  various  in-kind  benefits  are  increasingly 
being  proposed  as  a  means  for  further  raising  reve¬ 
nues.  Opposition  to  taxing  health  benefits  thus  also 
arises  from  the  precedent  that  would  be  set  for  taxing 

•  This  report  prepared  by  Marilyn  Moon,  Ph.D.,  Senior  Research  Associa¬ 
tion,  the  Urban  Institute. 


other  in-kind  benefits  such  as  private  pension 
contributions. 

Proponents  and  opponents  of  changing  the  tax 
status  of  health  insurance  benefits  both  argue  about 
fairness — the  subject  of  this  memo.  Proponents  fault 
the  disproportionate  benefits  that  go  to  upper  income 
workers  who  are  more  likely  to  have  generous  cover¬ 
age — and  who  benefit  more  because  of  the  progres¬ 
sive  nature  of  the  income  tax — as  compared  to  less 
well  off  workers.  Opponents  of  a  change,  on  the 
other  hand,  cite  many  of  the  difficulties  in  fairly  set¬ 
ting  appropriate  tax  caps.  The  following  discussion 
explores  both  sets  of  arguments. 


THE  BASIC  INEQUITIES  OF  THE 
CURRENT  SYSTEM 

The  major  inequities  of  the  current  system  cited 
by  proponents  of  taxing  insurance  benefits  relate  to 
the  share  of  the  benefits  that  flow  to  a  relatively 
small  number  of  high  income  taxpayers.  High-wage 
workers  are  more  likely  to  be  covered  by  their  em¬ 
ployers,  and  when  they  are,  the  value  of  the  benefits 
they  receive  is  likely  to  be  higher.  In  addition,  if  these 
benefits  were  to  be  taxed,  they  would  be  subject  to 
higher  marginal  rates  than  the  rates  faced  by 
noncovered  workers.  Thus,  the  tax  benefits  for  each 
dollar’s  worth  of  insurance  are  larger  for  those  with 
high  incomes.  For  example,  exempting  $1,000  worth 
of  premiums  saves  a  low  income  family  only  $150  in 
potential  income  taxes,  but  the  same  premiums  result 
in  $280  or  $330  in  tax  savings  to  those  with  higher 
incomes.  And  for  a  very  low-wage  worker  who  pays 
no  federal  income  tax,  there  is  no  tax  subsidy 
whatsoever. 

The  concept  of  base  broadening  suggests  that  all 
employer  benefits  ought  to  be  subject  to  tax.  Con- 


121 


sider,  for  example,  the  case  of  workers  who  can  bar¬ 
gain  either  for  higher  wages  or  more  health  insurance. 
They  are  explicitly  trading  off  one  for  the  other,  so 
why  shouldn’t  they  pay  taxes  equally  on  both  types  of 
benefits?  Bargaining  units  correctly  recognize  that  in¬ 
surance  benefits,  which  are  not  taxed,  may  actually  be 
a  better  deal  for  employees  who  can  give  up  one 
dollar  of  taxable  income  for  one  dollar  of  insurance 
that  is  not  subject  to  tax. 

Many  tax  experts  and  health  economists  have  rec¬ 
ognized  that  the  exclusion  encourages  individuals  to 
seek  more  health  insurance  coverage  than  is  desirable 
from  the  standpoint  of  economic  efficiency.  That  is, 
because  the  benefits  cost  them  little  or  nothing,  indi¬ 
viduals  are  inclined  to  seek  more  coverage  than  they 
would  be  willing  to  pay  for  if  they  had  to  bear  the 
full  cost.  Moreover,  individuals  whose  earnings  come 
solely  in  cash  (and  who  have  no  choice)  effectively 
pay  higher  tax  rates  than  other  workers  with 
nontaxed  benefits  in  their  total  compensation  package. 
Further,  some  would  argue  that  the  resulting  lower 
revenues  to  the  federal  government  from  these  tax  ex¬ 
clusions  mean  a  lower  ability  to  fund  public  programs 
to  meet  the  needs  of  persons  who  cannot  afford  to 
buy  insurance,  creating  even  further  inequities.  Thus, 
on  both  equity  and  efficiency  grounds  a  good  case 
can  be  made  for  taxing  health  insurance  benefits. 


EQUITY  PROBLEMS  IN  TAXING 
HEALTH  INSURANCE 

The  very  fact  that  health  insurance  is  an  in-kind 
benefit  creates  some  inherent  inequities.  The  costs  of 
such  insurance  vary  widely  even  for  similar  policies, 
yet  the  recipient  of  insurance  coverage  may  not  con¬ 
sider  that  he  or  she  is  better  off  than  a  fellow  worker 
just  because  the  policy  costs  more.  If  services  covered 
are  the  same,  why  should  one  individual  be  subject  to 
more  tax? 

If  employer  paid  insurance  premiums  were  sub¬ 
jected  to  the  federal  personal  income  tax,  persons 
whose  health  insurance  premiums  were  expensive — 
even  if  for  no  reason  under  their  own  control — would 
pay  higher  taxes.  And  the  problem  remains  even 
under  the  tax  cap  approach.  The  intention  of  a  tax 
cap  is  to  discourage  excessive  coverage,  while  still 
allowing  a  tax  break  on  the  basic  insurance  premium. 
But,  a  single  cap  does  not  allow  a  distinction  between 
excessive  coverage  and  expensive  coverage.  Although 
the  goal  of  taxing  the  insurance  benefits  is  not  to 
create  a  tax  that  varies  by  health  status,  the  results 
could  move  in  that  direction  if  the  inequities  are 
severe. 


Another  consequence  of  taxation  of  insurance  bene¬ 
fits  may  be  to  discourage  coverage  of  benefits  such  as 
preventive  services.  While  some  would  argue  that 
coverage  beyond  a  minimum  package  should  not  be 
subsidized,  other  health  analysts  would  argue  that  ad¬ 
ditional  benefits  ought  to  be  encouraged.  Choosing 
what  represents  excessive  coverage  (and  hence  setting 
a  tax  cap)  would  not  be  an  easy  task. 

Variance  in  insurance  costs  stems  from  a  number  of 
factors,  some  more  difficult  to  deal  with  than  others. 
First,  levels  of  insurance  premiums  differ  within  a 
given  region  depending  upon  the  size  of  the  group 
being  offered  insurance.  Large  employers  generally 
face  lower  costs  per  worker  since  the  pool  of  individ¬ 
uals  covered  by  insurance  is  very  large.  Employers 
with  only  a  few  workers  find  insurance  costs  to  be 
particularly  high — a  trend  that  is  increasing  over  time. 
These  represent  cost  differences  beyond  the  control 
of  the  employee  who  will  be  penalized  if  insurance 
premiums  are  taxed  or  taxed  above  some  simple  cap. 

Second,  age  and  other  demographic  characteristics 
of  workers  in  a  particular  employment  setting  may 
result  in  different  insurance  premiums.  An  employer 
with  a  large  supply  of  older  workers,  for  example, 
might  face  much  larger  insurance  costs — and  that 
could  be  further  exacerbated  if  the  business  is  a  small 
one.  All  workers  for  that  employer  regardless  of  age 
would  face  higher  than  average  tax  liabilities  for  the 
benefits  they  receive.  (Or,  if  differential  premiums 
were  to  be  applied,  then  older  workers  or  women  of 
child  bearing  ages  might  be  singled  out  for  heavy  tax 
burdens.) 

Basic  health  care  costs  and  patterns  of  actual  use  of 
services  also  show  great  differences  by  geographic  lo¬ 
cation.  Thus,  someone  in  the  northeast  or  north 
central  United  States  experiences  higher  premiums — 
and  thus  potentially  higher  taxes — than  someone  in 
similar  circumstances  in  the  west  or  the  south.  Should 
individuals  be  taxed  differently  because  the  rates  that 
providers  charge  vary?  If  they  receive  the  same  cov¬ 
erage,  individuals  may  be  able  to  argue  appropriately 
that  they  should  not  be  held  accountable  for  differ¬ 
ences  in  hospital  costs  and  doctors  fees,  for  example. 
On  the  other  hand,  higher  doctors  fees  tend  to 
occur  in  high  wage  areas  where  workers  are  also 
likely  to  be  paid  more  than,  for  example,  their  rural 
counterparts. 

Differences  in  premiums  resulting  from  varying  pat¬ 
terns  of  use  of  services  pose  an  even  more  difficult 
problem  since  more  care  is  received  by  those  for 
whom  higher  premiums  are  charged.  On  the  other 
hand,  patterns  of  use  may  be  more  attributable  to  doc¬ 
tors’  decisions  than  to  patient  demand.  We  know,  for 


122 


example,  that  practice  patterns  differ  around  the 
country — in  some  areas  many  more  procedures  are 
performed  than  in  other  areas.  If  so,  individuals  could 
again  argue  that  they  should  not  be  penalized  through 
the  tax  system  for  differences  in  premiums  that  are 
largely  beyond  their  control. 

Some  proponents  of  a  tax  cap  argue  that  the  whole 
purpose  of  the  cap  is  to  put  pressure  on  providers  to 
deal  with  each  of  these  potential  problems.  When  in¬ 
dividuals  are  faced  with  having  to  pay  higher  taxes, 
they  will  presumably  demand  reforms  in  the  insurance 
market.  This  competitive  approach  assumes  that  indi¬ 
viduals  and  their  employers  will  be  able  to  have 
enough  purchasing  power  to  force  improvements  in 
the  market. 


SOME  SOLUTIONS  TO  THE 
INEQUITIES 

Several  options  exist  to  reduce  the  inequities  cre¬ 
ated  by  taxing  insurance  premiums.  Differential  caps 
could  be  specified  depending  upon  region  of  resi¬ 
dence.  But  other  differences  discussed  above  will  vary 
by  firm,  so  some  further  adjustment  might  be  needed. 
For  example,  an  index  might  be  assigned  to  each  indi¬ 
vidual’s  reported  insurance  amount  to  adjust  for  dif¬ 
ferences  in  the  premiums  that  reflect  factors  other 
than  scope  of  coverage.  Such  an  index  might  be  cal¬ 
culated  by  insurers  to  reflect  differences  in  the  actu¬ 
arial  costs  to  firms  as  compared  to  a  national  average 
for  some  standard  policy.  That  index  could  then  be 
used,  for  example,  to  lower  the  reported  taxable  value 
of  unusually  high  premiums. 

Employees  of  large  firms  are  already  likely  to  be 
relatively  well  protected  from  arbitrary  variations  in 
the  cost  of  premiums  if  a  firm-wide  average  is  used  to 
calculate  the  premium.  That  is,  if  the  pool  of  em¬ 


ployees  is  large  enough  and  covers  many  areas  of  the 
country,  average  premiums  are  likely  to  wash  out  ar¬ 
bitrary  differences.  Similarly,  small  firms  could  be 
better  insulated  if  their  insurance  costs  were  modified 
by  creating  large  risk  pools  that  would  also  implicitly 
weight  all  the  various  reasons  for  insurance  premium 
differences  and  average  them  out.  Such  averaging 
would  likely  help  small  firms  with  high  costs,  but  if 
confined  to  a  particular  region  would  not  address  the 
issue  of  geographic  variation  in  insurance  costs. 

When  combined  with  other  health  care  proposals,  a 
tax  cap  could  also  avoid  most  of  the  equity  issues 
raised  here.  Consider,  for  example,  the  tax  cap  in 
combination  with  an  employer  mandate.  If  the  cap  is 
set  at  or  above  the  amount  needed  to  buy  the  man¬ 
dated  package,  covered  individuals  would  only  pay 
tax  when  their  insurance  was  more  comprehensive 
than  the  standard  package.  And  since  many  mandated 
insurance  proposals  would  include  options  for  small 
employers  to  have  access  to  affordable  insurance,  pre¬ 
miums  should  show  less  variation  as  compared  to  the 
current  insurance  market.  In  fact,  any  reform  that  im¬ 
proves  the  private  market  for  insurance  could  help. 
For  example,  if  improved  risk  pooling  enabled  small 
firms  to  buy  less  expensive  insurance,  employees 
would  not  face  taxes  on  unnecessarily  high  insurance 
premiums. 

In  that  sense,  combining  tax  cap  financing  with 
health  care  proposals  that  result  in  more  reasonably 
priced  insurance  complement  each  other  well  and 
reduce  one  of  the  major  objections  to  taxing  a  portion 
of  employer-paid  health  insurance  premiums.  On  the 
other  hand,  proposals  such  as  expanding  Medicaid 
coverage  to  more  of  the  uninsured  would  do  little  to 
improve  the  private  insurance  market;  financing  such 
a  proposal  with  a  tax  cap  could  be  criticized  on 
equity  grounds  unless  some  of  the  modifications  de¬ 
scribed  above  were  also  made  to  the  tax  cap. 


123 


28-861 


90  -  5  :  QL  3 


FEWER  RESOURCES,  GREATER  BURDENS:  MEDICAL 
CARE  COVERAGE  FOR  LOW-INCOME  ELDERLY 
PEOPLE 


Diane  Rowland,  Sc.D.* 


EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 

This  background  paper,  prepared  for  the  Pepper 
Commission,  profiles  the  economic  and  health  status 
of  the  elderly  population,  examines  the  financial 
burden  associated  with  obtaining  health  care  services, 
and  offers  recommendations  to  improve  protection. 
Particular  emphasis  is  given  to  examining  the  burdens 
medical  care  expenses  impose  on  low-income  elderly 
people  and  the  extent  to  which  coverage  to  supple¬ 
ment  Medicare  can  assist  in  alleviating  burdens  for 
this  group. 

Today,  3.5  million  elderly  people  are  poor  with  in¬ 
comes  below  the  Federal  poverty  level  of  roughly 
$6,000  per  year.  Another  8.2  million  are  near-poor 
with  incomes  between  100  and  200  percent  of  the 
poverty  level.  Overall,  40  percent  of  the  elderly 
population  is  poor  or  near-poor,  but  women,  those  of 
advanced  age,  and  minorities  are  more  likely  to  be 
low-income.  Low-income  elderly  people  are  more 
likely  to  be  in  poor  health  and  suffer  from  chronic 
conditions  requiring  ongoing  medical  care  than  other 
elderly  people. 

Nearly  all  elderly  Americans  receive  their  basic 
health  insurance  protection  from  Medicare,  but  the 
coverage  available  is  less  than  comprehensive.  In  ad¬ 

•  This  report  prepared  for  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Comprehen¬ 
sive  Health  Care  (The  Pepper  Commission),  by  Diane  Rowland,  Sc.D.,  As¬ 
sistant  Professor,  Brookdale  National  Fellow,  The  Johns  Hopkins  University 
School  of  Hygiene  and  Public  Health,  Baltimore,  Maryland,  May  10,  1990. 

This  paper  was  prepared  under  contract  with  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commis¬ 
sion  on  Comprehensive  Health  Care.  The  views  expressed  in  the  paper  are 
those  of  the  author  and  should  not  be  attributed  to  the  Commission,  The 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  or  the  Brookdale  Foundation.  The  author  wishes 
to  express  her  appreciation  to  Barbara  Lyons  and  Alina  Salgantcoff  for  their 
research  support  and  Yael  Fletcher  for  assistance  with  editing  and  preparing 
the  graphics  for  the  manuscript.  The  author  also  gratefully  acknowledges  the 
assistance  of  Sandra  Christensen,  Stephen  Long,  and  Jack  Rodgers  of  the 
Congressional  Budget  Office  and  Nancy  Mathiowetz  of  the  Agency  for 
Health  Care  Policy  and  Research. 


dition  to  an  annual  premium  of  $343  in  1990  for  Part 
B  coverage,  Medicare  requires  substantial  cost-sharing 
for  covered  services,  and  no  assistance  is  provided 
with  prescription  drugs.  Most  of  the  elderly  (68  per¬ 
cent)  have  private  insurance  to  protect  against  Medi¬ 
care’s  cost-sharing  requirements,  but  these  policies  are 
often  not  available  or  extremely  costly  for  the  11.7 
million  elderly  Americans  with  low  incomes. 

Although  Medicaid  is  intended  to  cover  premiums, 
cost-sharing  and  additional  benefits  for  the  elderly 
poor,  restrictive  income  and  asset  levels  for  eligibility 
leave  two-thirds  of  the  poor  and  90  percent  of  the 
near-poor  outside  Medicaid’s  reach.  As  a  result,  low- 
income  elderly  people  are  less  likely  to  have  coverage 
to  supplement  Medicare  than  other  elderly:  a  third  of 
low-income  elderly  people  rely  solely  on  Medicare. 

Gaps  in  Medicare  coverage,  coupled  with  limita¬ 
tions  in  the  reach  of  Medicaid,  result  in  out-of-pocket 
payments  for  medical  care  that  can  be  financially  dev¬ 
astating  for  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people  with 
limited  incomes.  On  average,  low-income  elderly 
people  spend  14  percent  of  their  per  capita  income  on 
out-of-pocket  costs  in  contrast  to  7  percent  of  income 
for  higher  income  people.  Over  a  third  of  low-income 
elderly  people  incur  catastrophic  costs  for  medical 
care  of  over  15  percent  of  income  compared  to  6  per¬ 
cent  of  the  non-poor;  those  needing  hospital  care  are 
the  hardest  hit. 

Medicaid  coverage  improves  access  to  medical  care 
for  low-income  elderly  people.  Those  with  Medicaid 
coverage  use  medical  care  services  at  rates  compara¬ 
ble  to  elderly  people  with  private  insurance  to  supple¬ 
ment  Medicare.  Those  with  only  Medicare  coverage 
are  less  likely  to  seek  physician  care  and  use  lower 
levels  of  care  despite  similar  health  care  needs. 


125 


Medicaid  reduces  the  financial  burden  of  out-of- 
pocket  costs  for  medical  care.  Those  with  full 
Medicaid  benefits  have  less  than  $300  in  annual  out- 
of-pocket  spending  compared  to  over  $1,000  for  un¬ 
covered  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people.  Premiums 
for  private  insurance  are  a  major  contributor  to  out- 
of-pocket  burdens  for  poor  and  near-poor  elderly 
people.  For  low-income  elderly  people  without  Med¬ 
icaid,  the  financial  burden  from  premium  payments 
alone  is  over  twice  the  total  of  out-of-pocket  spending 
by  those  with  Medicaid  coverage. 

Medicaid  “buy-in”  assistance  helps  by  paying  the 
premium  and  cost-sharing  for  Medicare  services,  but 
restrictive  eligibility  criteria  leave  most  low-income 
elderly  without  coverage.  The  Medicare  Catastrophic 
Coverage  Act  of  1988  will  broaden  the  buy-in  assist¬ 
ance  available  to  poor  elderly  people  through  Medi¬ 
caid.  State  Medicaid  programs  are  required  to  make 
buy-in  assistance  available  to  all  elderly  people  who 
have  incomes  below  the  poverty  line  and  limited 
assets  by  1992.  Yet,  gaps  in  coverage  remain.  States 
are  not  required  to  cover  prescription  drugs  and  poor 
elderly  people  who  have  more  than  $4,000  in  assets 
and  near-poor  elderly  people  will  remain  outside  the 
reach  of  Medicaid  assistance. 

The  scope  of  Medicaid  protection  should  be  further 
expanded  to  pay  Medicare  premiums  and  cost-sharing 
and  cover  prescription  drugs  for  all  low-income  el¬ 
derly  people  with  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the 
Federal  poverty  level  (roughly  $12,000  in  1989).  For 
the  3.5  million  elderly  people  living  on  incomes  below 
the  poverty  level,  Medicaid  would  cover  the  full  cost 
of  these  benefits  without  cost-sharing.  The  8.2  million 
near-poor  elderly  people  with  incomes  between  100 
and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  level  would  receive 
comparable  assistance  from  Medicaid,  but  would  con¬ 
tribute  to  premium  and  cost-sharing  obligations  and 
prescription  drug  costs  on  a  sliding  scale.  The  cost  of 
this  proposal  is  estimated  to  be  $2.1  billion  in  addi¬ 
tional  Federal  revenue  in  1990.  State  matching  ex¬ 
penditures  are  estimated  at  $1.8  billion,  for  a  total  cost 
of  $3.9  billion  in  1990. 

Expanding  Medicaid  to  more  low-income  elderly 
people  is  a  highly  targeted  approach  that  would  pro¬ 
vide  immediate  relief  from  medical  burdens  to  the 
most  vulnerable  of  the  elderly  population.  Future  ini¬ 
tiatives  may  look  to  broadening  the  scope  of  Medi¬ 
care  coverage  for  all  elderly  people,  but  in  the  short 
run  Medicaid  reforms  directed  toward  the  low- 
income  population  can  make  a  measurable  difference 
in  improving  access  to  care  and  alleviating  the  finan¬ 
cial  burdens  associated  with  medical  care  services. 


Fewer  Resources,  Greater  Burdens: 

Medical  Care  Coverage  for  Low-Income 
Elderly  People 

One  in  three  elderly  Americans  faces  each  day  on  a 
limited  income  that  leaves  little  room  for  extra  or  un¬ 
expected  expenses.  When  illness  strikes,  these  poor 
and  near-poor  elderly  Americans  depend  on  Medicare 
for  assistance  with  their  medical  bills,  but  Medicare 
does  not  provide  complete  protection.  Many  low- 
income  elderly  people  have  to  struggle  to  finance  the 
rest  of  their  care  from  limited  savings  or  by  shifting 
income  from  other  required  needs. 

The  Medicaid  program  is  essentially  the  safety  net 
to  Medicare  for  many  poor  elderly  people.  Once  cov¬ 
ered  by  Medicaid,  an  elderly  person  faces  little  risk  of 
high  out-of-pocket  expenses.  However,  the  impression 
that  Medicaid  supplements  Medicare  for  all  poor  el¬ 
derly  is  false.  Today,  only  a  third  of  poor  elderly 
people  have  Medicaid  coverage  to  fill  in  Medicare’s 
cost-sharing,  pay  the  Medicare  Part  B  premium  and 
provide  additional  benefits. 

Even  with  the  recent  extension  of  buy-in  coverage 
to  all  elderly  people  with  incomes  below  the  poverty 
level  under  the  Medicare  Catastrophic  Coverage  Act 
of  1988,  protection  will  be  less  than  comprehensive 
and  many  of  the  poor  will  remain  vulnerable.  Restric¬ 
tive  resource  tests  limit  eligibility  for  many  of  the 
poor  and  others  who  are  potentially  eligible  do  not 
apply  for  Medicaid  assistance.  In  part,  this  lack  of 
participation  results  because  the  eligibility  and  benefit 
guidelines  for  Medicaid  are  complex  and  difficult  to 
understand.  If  improvements  in  the  Medicaid  program 
are  to  benefit  their  intended  population  groups,  effec¬ 
tive  outreach  programs  must  be  developed  and  eligi¬ 
bility  rules  simplified. 

It  is,  however,  near-poor  elderly  people  who  are 
most  at-risk.  Those  with  incomes  between  100  and 
200  percent  of  poverty,  roughly  $6,000  to  $12,000  per 
year  in  1989,  are  generally  not  eligible  for  Medicaid. 
These  near-poor  elderly  people  are  especially  at  risk 
for  impoverishment  as  a  result  of  medical  expenses, 
yet  eligibility  for  the  catastrophic  coverage  buy-in 
provision  stops  at  the  poverty  level  and  offers  no  pro¬ 
tection  for  those  with  incomes  just  above  the  $5,980 
poverty  threshold. 

This  background  paper  prepared  for  the  Pepper 
Commission  profiles  the  economic  and  health  status  of 
the  elderly  population,  examines  the  financial  burden 
associated  with  obtaining  health  care  services,  and 
offers  recommendations  to  improve  protection.  Par¬ 
ticular  emphasis  is  given  to  examining  the  burdens 


126 


medical  care  expenses  impose  on  low-income  elderly 
people  and  the  extent  to  which  coverage  to  supple¬ 
ment  Medicare  can  assist  in  alleviating  burdens  for 
this  group.  The  analysis  presented  here  focuses  on  the 
medical  care  expenses  of  elderly  people  living  in  the 
community  and  does  not  examine  long-term  care  costs 
or  the  acute  care  costs  of  nursing  home  residents. 


Poverty  and  Illness  in  the  Elderly  Population 

Despite  general  improvements  in  the  economic  situ¬ 
ation  of  the  elderly  population  over  the  last  two  dec¬ 
ades,  many  elderly  people  continue  to  struggle  on  low 
or  modest  incomes.  Forty  percent  of  the  nation’s  29 
million  elderly  people  living  in  the  community  have 
incomes  less  than  200  percent  of  the  Federal  poverty 
level — roughly  $12,000  for  a  single  individual  in  1989 
(Figure  1).  For  these  11.7  million  poor  and  near-poor 
people,  living  on  a  fixed  income  can  become  particu¬ 
larly  difficult  if  poor  health  places  additional  burdens 
on  limited  finances  to  pay  for  cost-sharing  under 
Medicare  or  for  medical  services  that  are  not  cov¬ 
ered.  Health  status  is  thus  an  important  component  in 
assessing  the  overall  economic  well-being  of  the  el¬ 
derly  population. 

Figure  1  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population 
by  Poverty  Level,  1988 


Total  ■  29.0  million  elderly  people 

Poverty  Levels: 

Poor  ■  less  than  100%  poverty  (3.5  million) 
Near-Poor  •  100-199%  poverty  (8.2  million) 
Non-Poor  ■  200%  poverty  or  greater  (17.3  million) 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  eWerty 
based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey.  March  1 989. 

Economic  Status— In  1989,  the  federal  poverty  level 
was  $5,980  per  year  for  an  individual  and  $8,020  for  a 
couple.  Twelve  percent  of  the  elderly  population  (3.5 
million  people)  had  incomes  below  this  level  and  thus 


had  to  meet  their  daily  living  expenses  on  an  income 
of  less  than  $500  per  month.  Another  28  percent  of 
elderly  people  (8.2  million  people)  were  near-poor 
with  incomes  between  100  and  199  percent  of  the  fed¬ 
eral  poverty  level.  Together,  these  11.7  million  poor 
and  near-poor  people  comprise  the  low-income  el¬ 
derly  population  (Table  1). 


Table  1  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population  by 
Poverty  Level,  1988 


Number  of 
People 

Percent 

Distribution 

On  millions) 

Total  Elderly . 

29.0 

100.0% 

Poor  (less  than  100%  poverty) . 

3.5 

12.0% 

Near-Poor  (100-199%  poverty) . 

8.2 

28.4% 

100-149%  Poverty . 

4.5 

15.6% 

150-199%  Poverty . 

3.7 

12.8% 

Non-Poor  (200%  poverty  or 
more) . 

17.3 

59.6% 

200-299%  Poverty . 

6.0 

20.8% 

300%  Poverty  or  More . 

11.3 

38.8% 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
population  based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1 989. 


The  likelihood  of  living  on  a  low  income  is  greatest 
for  women,  minorities,  the  oldest  Americans,  and 
those  who  live  alone  (Figure  2).  Nearly  half  (46  per¬ 
cent)  of  elderly  women  and  two-thirds  (63  percent)  of 
elderly  minorities  have  incomes  below  twice  the  pov¬ 
erty  level.  The  likelihood  of  being  poor  or  near  poor 
increases  with  age  with  over  half  (57  percent)  of 
those  age  85  and  older  in  the  low-income  group  com¬ 
pared  to  a  third  (35  percent)  of  65-74  year  olds.  Re¬ 
flecting  their  older  age  distribution,  elderly  people 
who  live  alone  are  four  times  as  likely  to  be  poor  as 
those  who  live  with  a  spouse.  Lower  educational 
levels  and  residence  in  rural  areas  and  the  South  are 
also  associated  with  economic  deprivation  (Table  2). 

An  examination  of  the  demographic  characteristics 
of  the  3.5  million  elderly  people  living  in  poverty 
shows  the  population  to  be  predominantly  female,  dis¬ 
proportionately  minority,  and  of  advanced  age  (Table 
3).  Women  comprise  almost  three-quarters  (72  per¬ 
cent)  of  poor  elderly  people,  reflecting  their  lower 
wage  levels  during  working  years,  the  increased  risk 
of  financial  devastation  from  widowhood,  and  longev¬ 
ity  that  exceeds  savings.  Although  they  account  for 
only  10  percent  of  all  elderly  people,  blacks  and  other 
minorities  comprise  one-quarter  of  all  poor  elderly 
people.  Sixty  percent  of  poor  elderly  people  live 
alone  and  are  especially  vulnerable  in  times  of  illness 


127 


because  the  financial  strain  caused  by  their  low  in¬ 
comes  is  complicated  by  the  lack  of  support  from  a 
spouse,  resulting  in  the  need  for  more  services.  Al¬ 
though  their  predominance  in  the  poor  population  is 
most  striking,  women,  minorities,  and  those  over 
age  85  are  also  over-represented  in  the  near-poor 
population. 

The  low-income  elderly  population  is  much  more 
likely  to  rely  heavily  on  publicly  sponsored  sources  of 
income,  including  Social  Security  and  Supplemental 
Security  Income  (SSI)  than  those  who  are  economi¬ 
cally  better  off  (Commonwealth  Fund  Commission, 
1987).  In  many  cases,  these  sources  of  income  provide 
just  enough  money  to  meet  daily  living  expenses.  In 
1988,  the  average  Social  Security  benefit  provided  an 
annual  income  of  only  $5,800,  just  slightly  above  the 
Federal  poverty  level  for  an  elderly  individual  of 
$5,677.  Although  SSI  provides  cash  assistance  to  help 
the  low-income  elderly  population,  the  Federal  SSI 
benefit  for  a  single  individual  is  74  percent  of  poverty 
and  thus  does  not  raise  an  impoverished  elderly  per¬ 
son’s  income  to  the  poverty  level. 


Figure  2  Percent  of  Elderly  Who  Are  Poor  or 
Near-Poor  by  Sex,  Race,  Age  and  Living  Ar¬ 
rangement,  1988 


Total  Elderly 


White 

Black  &  Other  Races 


Living  With  Spouse 
Living  With  Others 
Living  Alone 


0%  20%  40% 

Percent 

H  Poor  VHI/h  Near-Poor 


60% 


80% 


SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey.  March  1 989. 


In  addition  to  limited  income,  poor  and  near-poor 
elderly  people  have  few  financial  assets  to  draw  on 
when  faced  with  high  medical  costs.  Savings  are  not 
available  to  finance  extended  or  expensive  care.  Over 


80  percent  of  the  poor  have  less  than  $10,000  in  finan¬ 
cial  assets  when  the  family  home  is  excluded.  The 
near-poor  also  have  little  in  the  way  of  financial  re¬ 
sources  with  three-quarters  of  that  population  having 
less  than  $25,000  in  assets  (Kennell,  1990). 


Table  2  Distribution  of  the  Elderly  Population  by 
Income  Level  and  Selected  Characteristics,  1988 


Total 

Elder¬ 

ly 

Total 

Poor 

Near- 

Poor 

Non- 

Poor 

<100% 

100- 

199% 

200% 
or  more 

(Num¬ 
ber  in 
mil¬ 
lions) 

Percent 
Distribu¬ 
tion  * 

Percent 
Distribu¬ 
tion  * 

Percent 
Distribu¬ 
tion  * 

Total . 

29.0 

100.0% 

12.1% 

28.3% 

59.7% 

Age 

65-74 . 

17.7 

100.0% 

10.2% 

24.9% 

65.5% 

75-84 . 

9.2 

100.0% 

14.1% 

32.6% 

52.2% 

85+ . 

2.1 

100.0% 

19.0% 

38.1% 

42.9% 

Sex 

Male . 

12.1 

100.0% 

8.3% 

24.8% 

66.9% 

Female . 

16.9 

100.0% 

14.8% 

30.8% 

54.4% 

Race 

White . 

26.0 

100.0% 

10.0% 

27.7% 

62.3% 

Black/Others . 

3.0 

100.0% 

30.0% 

33.3% 

36.7% 

Living  Arrangement 

Alone . 

3.9 

100.0% 

23.6% 

40.4% 

37.1% 

With  Spouse . 

16.5 

100.0% 

5.5% 

22.4% 

72.1% 

With  Others . 

3.6 

100.0% 

13.9% 

27.8% 

58.3% 

Education 

Less  than  8th  Grade.. 

4.5 

100.0% 

26.7% 

40.0% 

33.3% 

8-1 2th  Grade . 

18.3 

100.0% 

10.9% 

30.6% 

58.5% 

Higher  than  12th 

Grade . 

6.3 

100.0% 

4.8% 

14.3% 

81.0% 

Residence 

SMSA . 

21.4 

100.0% 

10.7% 

27.1% 

62.1% 

Non-SMSA . 

7.6 

100.0% 

15.8% 

32.9% 

52.6% 

Region 

Northeast . 

6.6 

100.0% 

10.6% 

27.3% 

62.1% 

North  Central . 

7.0 

100.0% 

10.0% 

30.0% 

61.4% 

South . 

10.0 

100.0% 

17.0% 

30.0% 

54.0% 

West . 

5.4 

100.0% 

7.4% 

25.9% 

66.7% 

*  Rows  of  percents  may  not  add  to  total  due  to  rounding. 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
population  based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1989. 


When  illness  strikes  an  elderly  individual  or  their 
spouse,  high  out-of-pocket  expenses  can  quickly  de¬ 
plete  these  limited  resources.  The  burden  of  caring  for 
a  sick  spouse,  and  perhaps  ultimately  shifting  care  to  a 
nursing  home,  can  exhaust  the  financial  resources  of  a 
couple  and  leave  the  spouse  remaining  in  the  commu¬ 
nity  bereft  of  both  spouse  and  necessary  support. 
Many  of  the  women  who  live  out  their  lives  alone 
and  in  poverty  have  had  their  futures  compromised 
by  the  illness  and  death  of  a  husband.  Others  become 


128 


impoverished  by  their  own  medical  bills  as  chronic 
care  and  longer  life  draw  down  economic  resources. 

Health  Status — The  burden  of  illness  is  a  serious 
problem  for  many  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people. 
Poor  health  status,  multiple  chronic  conditions  and 
functional  limitations  are  all  more  prevalent  among 
the  low-income  elderly  population  than  those  with 
higher  incomes.  These  conditions  increase  the  need 
for  and  utilization  of  medical  services  which  in  turn 
increases  the  financial  burden  for  cost-sharing  and  un¬ 
covered  medical  expenses. 


Table  3  Characteristics  of  the  Elderly  Population 
by  Income,  1988 


Total 

Poor 

Near- 

Poor 

Non-Poor 

<100% 

200%  or 
more 

100- 

199% 

Total  Elderly  (Number  in 

millions) . 

29.0 

3.5 

8.2 

17.3 

Percent  Distribution 

Age 

65-74  . 

61.1 

50.8 

53.6 

66.8 

75-84  . 

31.6 

38.5 

36.9 

27.7 

85+ . 

7.2 

10.7 

9.5 

5.5 

Sex 

Male . 

41.6 

27.7 

36.9 

46.7 

Female . 

58.4 

72.3 

63.1 

53.3 

Race 

White . 

89.6 

74.5 

87.7 

93.5 

Black/ Others . 

10.4 

25.5 

12.3 

6.5 

Living  Arrangement 

Alone . 

30.8 

60.7 

43.1 

18.9 

With  Spouse . 

56.9 

24.6 

45.3 

69.0 

With  Others . 

12.3 

14.7 

11.6 

12.1 

Education 

Less  than  8th  Grade . 

15.4 

35.5 

21.3 

8.5 

8-1 2th  Grade . 

62.9 

56.9 

68.0 

61.7 

Higher  than  12th  Grade... 

21.7 

7.6 

10.6 

29.8 

Residence 

SMSA . 

73.7 

65.5 

69.9 

77.1 

Non-SMSA . 

26.3 

34.5 

30.1 

22.9 

Region 

Northeast . 

22.7 

19.8 

22.0 

23.6 

North  Central . 

24.3 

20.2 

24.9 

24.8 

South . 

34.5 

48.2 

35.9 

31.0 

West . 

18.6 

11.7 

17.2 

20.6 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  norwnstitutionaltzed  eKJerty 
population  based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey.  March  1989. 


Poor  health  status  has  been  shown  to  be  highly 
predictive  of  the  need  for  medical  care  (Manning, 
Newhouse  and  Ware,  1981).  Overall,  one-third  of  the 
elderly  population  reports  their  health  as  fair  or  poor, 
but  low-income  elderly  people  are  much  more  likely 


to  have  fair  or  poor  health  than  those  with  higher  in¬ 
comes.  Almost  half  (47  percent)  of  poor  and  37  per¬ 
cent  of  near-poor  elderly  people  report  their  health  as 
fair  or  poor  compared  to  25  percent  of  non-poor  el¬ 
derly  people  (Figure  3). 

Chronic  conditions  are  more  prevalent  in  the  el¬ 
derly  population  than  in  the  non-elderly  population, 
but  are  particularly  burdensome  for  low-income 
elders.  Low-income  people  are  more  likely  to  have 
arthritis,  hypertension,  and  vision  problems  than  non- 
poor  elderly  people  (Figure  4).  For  example  almost 
two-thirds  (62  percent)  of  poor  elderly  people  suffer 
from  arthritis  that  can  impair  mobility  and  result  in 
the  need  for  medication  for  treatment  and  pain  relief. 
The  prevalence  is  lower  for  the  near-poor  (53  per¬ 
cent)  and  lowest  for  the  non-poor  (48  percent)  elderly 
population. 

Over  half  of  poor  elderly  people  have  hypertension, 
17  percent  have  heart  disease,  and  9  percent  have 
cerebrovascular  disease  (Table  4).  The  occurrence  of 
these  chronic  conditions  is  consistently  higher  among 
the  poor  elderly  than  the  near-poor  or  the  non-poor. 
These  conditions  require  physician  monitoring  and 
prescription  drugs  to  maintain  health  status.  Thirteen 
percent  of  poor  elderly  people  have  diabetes  and  most 
require  insulin  treatment  as  well  as  medical  care  for 
the  many  conditions  that  arise  as  complications  to  dia¬ 
betes.  Vision  and  hearing  problems  also  afflict  over  40 
percent  of  poor  elderly  people.  Although  correctional 
aids  can  vastly  improve  functional  ability  and  quality 
of  life,  they  can  be  quite  costly. 

Functional  disabilities  contributing  to  the  need  for 
long-term  care  assistance  further  compound  the  medi¬ 
cal  problems  of  elderly  people  (Rowland,  1989). 
Twenty-one  percent  of  poor  elderly  people  report 
being  restricted  in  one  or  more  activities  of  daily 
living  compared  to  15  percent  of  the  near-poor  and  12 
percent  of  the  non-poor.  Elderly  people  with  func¬ 
tional  impairments  are  likely  to  be  strained  financially 
by  non-medical  needs  and  expenses,  as  well  as  by  the 
need  for  additional  services  and  special  transportation 
arrangements  to  obtain  medical  care. 

In  sum,  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people  are  more 
likely  to  be  experiencing  health  problems  for  which 
they  require  medical  services  than  elderly  people  who 
are  economically  better  off,  but  they  are  less  able  to 
afford  needed  care  because  of  their  lower  incomes. 
For  those  who  need  medical  care  and  incur  large  out- 
of-pocket  expenditures,  medical  expenses  can  lead  to 
impoverishment.  The  extent  to  which  insurance  is 
available  to  assist  with  medical  bills  becomes  a  crucial 
factor. 


129 


Figure  3  Percent  of  Elderly  People  Reporting 
Fair  or  Poor  Health  by  Income,  1984 


percent 


INCOME  LEVEL 


supplemental  insurance,  often  called  Medigap  in¬ 
surance,  in  addition  to  their  Medicare  coverage.  An 
additional  eight  percent  of  elderly  people  receive  as¬ 
sistance  from  Medicaid  because  they  are  low  income. 
Nearly  a  quarter  (22  percent)  of  the  elderly  popula¬ 
tion  is  without  supplementary  coverage  and  relies 
solely  on  Medicare.  They  pay  out-of-pocket  for  Medi¬ 
care  cost-sharing  and  the  cost  of  uncovered  services. 
One  percent  of  the  elderly  population  is  uninsured. 

The  uninsured  elderly  population  is  a  group  of 
300,000  elderly  people  who  are  without  Medicare  or 
any  other  health  insurance  coverage  (Table  5).  Medi¬ 
care  coverage  is  linked  to  eligibility  for  Social  Secu¬ 
rity  through  one’s  own  or  a  spouse’s  work  history. 
Elderly  people  who  have  not  participated  in  the 
Social  Security  program  or  who  have  not  accrued  an 
adequate  work  history  may  not  be  entitled  to  Medi¬ 
care  benefits.  For  them,  the  cost  of  buying  Medicare 
or  private  coverage  may  be  prohibitive.  As  a  result, 
America’s  uninsured  population  also  includes  a  small 
group  of  elderly  people. 

Figure  4  Percent  of  Elderly  Population  With 
Selected  Conditions,  1984 


SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
based  on  the  1984  Supplement  on  Aging  to  the  National  Health  Interview  Survey. 


Health  Insurance  Coverage 

Nearly  all  elderly  Americans  receive  their  basic 
health  insurance  protection  from  Medicare.  The 
design  and  scope  of  the  Medicare  benefit  package  was 
modeled  after  private  health  insurance  coverage  for 
the  under-65  population  with  substantial  coinsurance 
and  deductibles.  The  Hospital  Insurance  (Part  A) 
component  provides  fairly  extensive  coverage  of 
short-term  hospital  care  and  limited  coverage  of  post¬ 
acute  skilled  nursing  facility  and  home  health  services. 
The  Supplementary  Medical  Insurance  (Part  B)  com¬ 
ponent  of  Medicare  covers  physician  care  and  related 
ambulatory  services  and  home  health  visits.  Medicare 
beneficiaries  are  required  to  pay  a  premium  for  cover¬ 
age  under  Part  B. 

The  actual  level  of  insurance  protection  among  the 
elderly  population  varies  substantially  because  many 
elderly  people  have  private  insurance  and/or  Medi¬ 
caid  to  supplement  their  Medicare  coverage  (Figure 
5).  Almost  70  percent  of  elderly  people  have  private 


Arthritis 


Hypertension 


Vision  Problems  ^ 


ADL  Limitation  ^ 


Mobility  Limitation 


62% 


Poor 

Near-Poor 
1  I  Non-Poor 


0% 


20% 


40% 


60% 


SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
based  on  the  1984  Supplement  on  Aging  to  the  National  Health  Interview  Survey. 


130 


Table  4  Health  Status,  Medical  Conditions  and 
Other  Related  Problems  of  the  Elderly  Popula¬ 
tion,  1984 


Poor 

Near- 

Poor 

Non- 

Poor 

Total 

<100% 

100- 

199% 

200% 

or 

more 

Percent  of  Elderly  With  Following 
Conditions: 

Fair  or  Poor  Health . 

32.0 

47.3 

36.5 

24.9 

Chronic  Conditions 

Arthritis . 

51.6 

62.1 

53.0 

47.9 

Hypertension . 

43.6 

51.8 

45.9 

39.9 

Heart  Disease . 

16.0 

17.0 

16.2 

15.6 

Diabetes . 

10.0 

13.3 

10.8 

8.5 

Cerebrovascular  Disease . 

6.5 

9.0 

7.1 

5.4 

Other  Related  Problems 

ADL  Limitation  * . 

14.2 

21.2 

15.0 

11.7 

IADL  Limitation  ** . 

14.1 

22.9 

15.6 

10.7 

Mobility  Difficulty . 

10.1 

17.3 

10.7 

7.8 

Hearing  Problems . 

37.5 

42.0 

39.0 

35.3 

Vision  Problems . 

29.4 

39.0 

30.4 

26.2 

*  Limited  in  one  or  more  of  the  following  ADLs:  Bathing,  dressing, 
transferring,  eating,  or  toileting. 

**  Limited  in  one  or  more  of  the  following  I  ADLs:  Shopping, 
making  meals,  managing  money  or  using  the  telephone. 

SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
population  based  on  the  1984  Supplement  on  Aging  to  the  National  Health  Interview 
Survey. 

The  pattern  of  insurance  coverage  varies  signifi¬ 
cantly  by  income  with  private  insurance  to  comple¬ 
ment  Medicare  most  common  among  the  non-poor 
elderly  population  and  less  extensive  as  a  form  of  fi¬ 
nancing  for  the  elderly  poor  (Figure  6).  Among  the 
poor  elderly,  one-third  (34  percent)  have  Medicare 
and  private  coverage,  one-third  (34  percent)  rely 
solely  on  Medicare,  29  percent  have  Medicare  and 
Medicaid,  and  three  percent  are  uninsured.  For  the 
near-poor  elderly  population,  private  coverage  is 
more  extensive  with  59  percent  reporting  such  cover¬ 
age  while  10  percent  have  Medicaid  and  31  percent 
rely  solely  on  Medicare.  Among  the  non-poor  popula¬ 
tion,  80  percent  have  both  Medicare  and  private  cov¬ 
erage  and  only  16  percent  rely  solely  on  Medicare. 

In  addition  to  the  small  group  of  uninsured  elderly 
people,  the  group  with  Medicare-only  coverage  also 
faces  substantial  risk  for  out-of-pocket  spending  when 
illness  strikes  and  cost-sharing  levels  under  Medicare 
mount.  Among  the  29  million  elderly  Americans 
living  in  the  community,  6.5  million  rely  solely  on 
Medicare  (Table  6).  Low-income  elderly  people  com¬ 
prise  57  percent  of  the  Medicare-only  population. 
Thus,  any  efforts  at  filling  gaps  in  supplementary  cov¬ 
erage  will  result  in  substantial  assistance  to  the  low- 
income  elderly  population. 


Figure  5  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  Elderly 

People,  1988 


None 


Total  ■  29.0  million  elderly  people 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  etderty 
based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1 989. 


Table  5  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  the 
Elderly  Population,  1988 


Number 
of  People 

Percent 

Distribu¬ 

tion 

(in 

millions) 

Total  Elderly . 

29.0 

100.0% 

Medicare  &  Medicaid . 

2.4 

8.3% 

Medicare  &  Medicaid  Only . 

1.9 

6.6% 

Medicare  &  Medicaid  &  Private . 

0.5 

1.7% 

Medicare  &  Private . 

19.8 

68.3% 

Medicare  &  Private . 

18.8 

64.9% 

Only  Private . 

1.0 

3.4% 

Medicare  Only . 

6.5 

22.4% 

None . 

0.3 

1.0% 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  norwnstrtutionaJized  elderty 
population  based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1989 


Private  Supplementary  Insurance — The  most 
common  insurance  protection  arrangement  for  elderly 
people  combines  Medicare  and  private  insurance  cov¬ 
erage  to  help  with  Medicare  cost-sharing.  Private  sup¬ 
plementary  policies  vary  considerably  in  the  amount 
of  coverage  provided.  Coverage  of  the  Medicare 
copayments  is  standard  and  some  policies  also  cover 
deductibles  and  other  items,  such  as  prescription 
drugs,  that  are  not  covered  or  partially  covered  by 
Medicare  (Rice  and  McCall,  1985). 


131 


Figure  6  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  Elderly 
People  by  Income,  1988 


31% 


59% 


POOR 


NEAR-POOR 


80% 

NON-POOR 


□ 

onm 


Medicare  Only 
Medicare  &  Medicaid 
Medicare  &  Private 
None 


SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1 989. 


The  comprehensiveness  and  cost  of  private  supple¬ 
mental  insurance  is  related  to  how  an  elderly  indi¬ 
vidual  obtains  this  coverage.  Forty-six  percent  of 
those  with  private  supplemental  insurance  obtain  cov¬ 
erage  under  group  policies  from  current  or  former 
employers  (Monheit  and  Schur,  1989).  In  most  of 
these  situations,  the  employer  pays  some  or  all  of  the 
cost  of  the  insurance  policy  as  a  retirement  benefit. 
The  other  54  percent  of  elderly  people  with  private 
supplemental  coverage  purchase  individual  policies 
themselves.  Both  group  and  nongroup  insurance  poli¬ 
cies  cover  nearly  all  hospital  and  inpatient  physician 
care,  but  individual  policies  tend  to  provide  less  cov¬ 
erage  for  other  services,  particularly  outpatient  diag¬ 
nostic  care  and  prescribed  medicines,  dental  care  and 
mental  health.  The  cost  of  individual  policies  is  high, 
ranging  from  about  $500  to  $1,300  per  year  (Con¬ 
sumer’s  Union  1989). 


With  basic  policies  costing  more  than  $500  per  year, 
it  is  striking  that  a  third  of  poor  elderly  people  are 
potentially  committing  over  10  percent  of  their  in¬ 
comes  just  to  pay  the  premiums  for  private  insurance 
coverage.  The  near-poor  elderly  population  is  also  fi¬ 
nancially  pressed,  yet  over  half  elect  to  purchase  pri¬ 
vate  coverage. 


Table  6  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  the 
Elderly  Population  by  Income,  1988 


Poor 

Near- 

Poor 

Non-Poor 

Total  * 

<100% 

100- 

199% 

200%  or 
more 

Total  Elderly  (Number  in 

millions) . 

29.0 

3.5 

8.2 

17.3 

Medicare  Only . 

6.5 

1.2 

2.5 

2.7 

Medicare  &  Private  ** . 

19.8 

1.2 

4.8 

13.8 

Medicare  & 

Medicaid  *** . 

2.4 

1.0 

0.8 

0.6 

None . 

0.3 

0.1 

0.0 

0.1 

Percent  Distribution 

Total  Elderly . 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

100.0% 

Medicare  Only . 

22.4% 

34.3% 

30.5% 

15.6% 

Medicare  &  Private . 

68.3% 

34.3% 

58.5% 

79.8% 

Medicare  &  Medicaid . 

8.3% 

28.6% 

9.8% 

3.5% 

None . 

1.0% 

2.9% 

0.0% 

0.6% 

Total  Elderly . 

100.0% 

12.1% 

28.3% 

59.7% 

Medicare  Only . 

100.0% 

18.5% 

38.5% 

41.5% 

Medicare  &  Private . 

100.0% 

6.1% 

24.2% 

69.7% 

Medicare  &  Medicaid . 

100.0% 

41.7% 

33.3% 

25.0% 

None . 

100.0% 

33.3% 

0.0% 

33.3% 

*  Total  may  not  add  due  to  rounding. 

*  *  Some  individuals,  such  as  federal  or  state  employees,  have  insurance  other 
than  Medicare. 

***  Some  individuals  also  have  private  insurance. 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
population  based  on  the  Current  Population  Survey,  March  1989. 


The  high  cost  of  private  coverage  results  in  low- 
income  elderly  people  being  less  likely  to  purchase 
private  insurance  coverage  than  more  economically 
advantaged  elderly  people.  Low  income  elderly 
people  are  also  less  likely  to  have  had  the  types  of 
jobs  during  their  working  years  that  offer  private 
health  insurance  coverage  after  retirement  as  a  bene¬ 
fit.  As  a  result,  80  percent  of  non-poor  elderly  people 
have  private  insurance  compared  to  34  percent  of 
poor  and  58  percent  of  near-poor  elderly  people. 


Medicaid  Coverage — One  of  the  reasons  poor  and 
near-poor  elderly  people  turn  to  private  insurance  is 
that  many  are  unable  to  obtain  assistance  from  Medi¬ 
caid.  Overall,  eight  percent  of  all  elderly  people 
receive  assistance  from  Medicaid  to  supplement  Medi¬ 
care’s  coverage  of  medical  expenses.  For  these 
people,  the  Medicaid  program  functions  like  a  private 
insurance  supplementary  policy  by  filling  in  Medi¬ 
care’s  cost-sharing.  However,  Medicaid  coverage  pro¬ 
vides  better  protection  by  also  paying  the  Part  B 


132 


Medicare  premium  and  covering  additional  benefits, 
most  notably  prescription  drugs.  For  the  most  part, 
the  Medicaid  program  thus  provides  more  compre¬ 
hensive  benefits  to  supplement  Medicare  than  private 
insurance  policies  and  eliminates  the  need  to  pay  pre¬ 
miums  for  either  Medicare  or  private  coverage. 

Although  the  Medicaid  program  provides  impor¬ 
tant  coverage  for  some  of  the  poorest  elderly  people, 
the  impression  that  Medicaid  supplements  Medicare 
for  all  poor  elderly  people  is  false.  In  fact,  the  portion 
of  the  poor  with  Medicaid  is  the  same  as  the  portion 
with  private  insurance.  Less  than  one-third  (29  per¬ 
cent)  of  poor  elderly  people  and  10  percent  of  near- 
poor  elderly  people  have  Medicaid  coverage. 

There  are  several  reasons  why  Medicaid  falls  short 
in  assisting  low-income  elderly  people.  First,  Medi¬ 
caid  eligibility  for  elderly  people  is  shaped  predomi¬ 
nantly  by  Federal  policy  under  the  Supplemental 
Security  Income  (SSI)  program  which  provides  cash 
assistance  to  elderly  and  disabled  persons.  Because  of 
the  link  to  welfare,  individuals  must  meet  stringent 
income  and  asset  eligibility  criteria  to  obtain  Medicaid 
coverage.  Only  11  states  set  their  Medicaid  eligibility 
level  at  or  above  the  poverty  level  (Figure  7). 

The  average  income  standard  for  a  single  elderly 
individual  under  Medicaid  in  1989  was  83  percent  of 
poverty  or  $4,956  per  year,  but  income  eligibility  cri¬ 
teria  vary  widely  among  states  (Table  7).  Most  states 
provide  Medicaid  eligibility  to  those  who  meet  the 
income  criteria  for  receipt  of  cash  assistance,  although 
some  employ  higher  standards  for  Medicaid  under  an 
option  in  the  1986  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation 
Act.  The  level  ranges  from  a  low  of  $2,904  (49  per¬ 
cent  of  poverty)  per  individual  in  North  Carolina  to  a 
high  of  $8,796  (147  percent  of  poverty)  in  Vermont. 
An  income  of  $5,000  is  too  generous  for  an  elderly  in¬ 
dividual  to  obtain  Medicaid  eligibility  in  most  states. 
For  couples,  the  average  income  standard  for  Medi¬ 
caid  is  88  percent  of  poverty  or  $7,037  (Table  8). 
Again  the  standard  varies  widely  among  states  from 
$3,696  or  46  percent  of  poverty  in  North  Carolina  to 
$13,392  or  167  percent  of  poverty  in  California. 

In  35  states  elderly  people  with  higher  incomes  can 
qualify  for  Medicaid  assistance  under  the  medically 
needy  program  option.  In  these  states,  if  medical  ex¬ 
penses  reduce  income  to  below  the  medically  needy 
income  level,  individuals  obtain  Medicaid  coverage. 
However,  medically  needy  levels  are  set  in  relation  to 
state  standards  for  Aid  to  Families  with  Dependent 


Children  coverage  and  are  lower  than  general  Medi¬ 
caid  eligibility  levels  for  the  elderly  and  disabled. 
Thus,  those  with  medical  expenses  must  actually 
spend-down  to  a  lower  income  standard  than  those 
eligible  as  SSI  cash  assistance  recipients.  Medically 
needy  levels  average  71  percent  of  poverty  for  indi¬ 
viduals  and  65  percent  of  poverty  for  couples. 

Figure  7  State  Medicaid  Eligibility  Criteria  for 
Elderly  Individuals,*  1989 


Number  of  States 


Income  as  a  Percent  of  Poverty 

•Federal  SSI  benefit  for  elderly 
Individuals  Is  set  at  74%  of  poverty. 

SOURCE:  Rowland,  Salganicoff,  and  Lyons,  1990. 

In  addition  to  income  limits,  Medicaid  also  has 
severe  asset  limitations  for  eligibility.  Houses  are  ex¬ 
cluded  from  resource  limits,  but  savings  and  other 
possessions  are  not.  Generally,  to  qualify  for  Medicaid 
eligibility,  assets  cannot  exceed  $2,000  for  individuals 
and  $3,000  for  couples  (Table  9).  A  few  states  have 
relaxed  the  asset  limit  to  $5,000  for  individuals  and 
$6,000  for  couples,  but  in  most  cases,  the  lower  stand¬ 
ard  applies.  These  asset  levels  are  so  stringent  that 
less  than  half  of  the  elderly  poor  and  a  quarter  of  the 
near-poor  can  meet  the  asset  test  for  Medicaid 
(Kennell,  1990). 


133 


Table  7  Medicaid  Income  Eligibility  Limits  for  Elderly  Individuals,  1989 


State 

Full  Medicaid  Benefits 

Medically  Needy  Coverage 

Buy-in  Only 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty  (a) 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty 

Average . 

$4,956 

(b)  83% 

$4,257 

71% 

$5,259 

88% 

Alabama . 

$4,416 

74% 

_ 

_ 

$5,076 

85% 

Alaska . 

$8,220 

110%** 

— 

— 

$7,476 

100% 

Arizona . 

$5,088 

85%** 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

Arkansas . 

$4,416 

74% 

$1,296 

22% 

$5,088 

85% 

California . 

$7,224 

121% 

$7,200 

120% 

(c) 

Colorado . 

$5,112 

85% 

_ 

_ 

$5,088 

85% 

Connecticut  * . 

$6,672 

112% 

$5,424 

91% 

$5,088 

85% 

Delaware . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

(c) 

District  of  Columbia . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$4,692 

78% 

$5,976 

100% 

Florida . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$3,600 

59% 

$5,976 

100% 

Georgia . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$5,076 

85% 

Hawaii  * . 

$6,864 

100%** 

$4,284 

62% 

$6,864 

100% 

Idaho . 

$5,052 

86% 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

Illinois  * . 

NA 

NA 

$3,204 

54% 

$4,788 

80% 

Indiana  * . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$4,620 

77% 

Iowa . 

$4,416 

74% 

$5,592 

94% 

$5,076 

85% 

Kansas . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,416 

74% 

$5,088 

85% 

Kentucky . 

$4,416 

74% 

$2,604 

44% 

$5,088 

85% 

Louisiana . 

$4,656 

78% 

$1,200 

20% 

$5,088 

85% 

Maine . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$4,800 

80% 

$5,088 

85% 

Maryland . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,500 

75% 

$5,100 

85% 

Massachusetts . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$5,976 

100% 

$5,976 

100% 

Michigan . 

$5,076 

85%** 

$4,788 

80% 

$5,076 

85% 

Minnesota  * . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,824 

81% 

$5,088 

85% 

Mississippi . 

$5,088 

85%** 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

Missouri  * . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$5,076 

85% 

Montana . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,416 

74% 

$5,088 

85% 

Nebraska  * . 

$5,100 

85%** 

$4,704 

79% 

$5,100 

85% 

Nevada . 

$4,848 

81% 

— 

— 

$5,976 

100% 

New  Hampshire  * . 

$4,584 

77% 

$4,584 

77% 

$5,088 

85% 

New  Jersey . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$4,200 

70% 

$5,976 

100% 

New  Mexico . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

New  York . 

$5,508 

92% 

$5,508 

92% 

$5,988 

100% 

North  Carolina  * . 

$2,904 

49% 

$2,904 

49% 

$4,776 

80% 

North  Dakota  * . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,140 

69% 

$5,088 

85% 

Ohio  * . 

$3,768 

63% 

_ 

_ 

$4,788 

80% 

Oklahoma  * . 

$5,184 

87% 

$3,300 

55% 

$5,388 

90% 

Oregon . 

$4,436 

74% 

$4,620 

77% 

$5,088 

85% 

Pennsylvania . 

$5,976 

100%** 

$4,896 

82% 

$5,976 

100% 

Rhode  Island . 

$5,148 

86% 

$6,600 

110% 

$5,088 

85% 

South  Carolina . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

_ 

$5,976 

100% 

South  Dakota . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

Tennessee . 

$4,416 

74% 

$2,100 

35% 

$5,088 

85% 

Texas . 

$4,416 

74% 

— 

— 

$5,088 

85% 

Utah . 

$4,416 

74% 

$4,044 

68% 

$5,976 

100% 

Vermont . 

$8,796 

147%** 

$8,796 

147% 

$5,139 

86% 

Virginia  * . 

$4,416 

74% 

$3,000 

50% 

$5,088 

85% 

Washington . 

$4,752 

79% 

$4,752 

79% 

$5,088 

85% 

West  Virginia . 

$4,416 

74% 

$2,400 

40% 

$5,076 

85% 

Wisconsin . 

$5,652 

95% 

$5,652 

95% 

$5,976 

100% 

Wyoming . 

$4,656 

78% 

— 

— 

$5,316 

89% 

NOTES: 

'209(b)  states;  may  use  more  restrictive  criteria  than  the  SSI  standard  ($4,416  per  year  for  individuals  at  74%  of  poverty)  to  determine  Medicaid  eligibility. 
"  1986  OBRA  eligibility  level  used. 

—  Signifies  option  not  covered  by  state. 

NA  Information  was  not  available. 

(a)  Eligibility  criteria  is  the  higher  of  either  state  categorically  needy  or  OBRA  1 986  Buy-in  eligibility  criteria. 

(b) The  Official  Federal  Poverty  level  for  1989  is  $5, 980/year  for  individuals,  except  in  Alaska  ($7, 475/year)  and  Hawaii  ($6, 877/year). 

(c)  Not  effective  until  January  1 ,  1 990. 

SOURCE:  Rowland,  Salganicoff,  and  Lyons,  1990. 


134 


Table  8  Medicaid  Income  Eligibility  Limits  for  Elderly  Couples,  1989 


State 

Full  Medicaid  Benefits 

Medically  Needy  Coverage 

Buy-in  Only 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty  (a) 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty 

Income  Level 

Income  as 
Percentage  of 
Poverty 

Average . 

$7,037 

(b)  88% 

$5,225 

65% 

$6,897 

86% 

Alabama . 

$6,636 

83% 

_ 

_ 

$6,804 

85% 

Alaska . 

$12,180 

121%** 

— 

— 

$8,820 

88% 

Arizona . 

$6,828 

85%** 

— 

— 

$6,828 

85% 

Arkansas . 

$6,636 

83% 

$2,604 

32% 

$6,816 

85% 

California . 

$13,392 

167% 

$11,208 

140% 

(c) 

Colorado . 

NA 

NA 

_ 

_ 

$6,828 

85% 

Connecticut  * . 

$8,556 

107% 

$7,212 

90% 

$6,828 

85% 

Delaware . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

(c) 

District  of  Columbia . 

$8,196 

102%’* 

$4,944 

62% 

$8,016 

100% 

Florida . 

$8,020 

100%** 

$3,600 

45% 

$8,020 

100% 

Georgia . 

$6,636 

83% 

_ 

_ 

$6,816 

85% 

Hawaii  * . 

$9,216 

100%** 

$5,760 

62% 

$9,216 

100% 

Idaho . 

$6,936 

86% 

— 

— 

$6,816 

85% 

Illinois  * . 

NA 

NA 

$3,996 

50% 

$6,420 

80% 

Indiana  * . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,192 

69% 

Iowa . 

$6,636 

83% 

$5,592 

70% 

$6,816 

85% 

Kansas . 

$6,636 

83% 

$5,700 

71% 

$6,816 

85% 

Kentucky . 

$6,636 

83% 

$3,204 

40% 

$6,816 

85% 

Louisiana . 

$6,876 

86% 

$2,304 

29% 

$7,512 

94% 

Maine . 

$8,016 

100%** 

$5,292 

66% 

$6,816 

85% 

Maryland . 

$6,636 

83% 

$5,004 

62% 

$6,900 

85% 

Massachusetts . 

$8,016 

100%** 

$8,016 

100% 

$8,016 

100% 

Michigan . 

$7,176 

89%** 

$6,696 

83% 

$6,816 

85% 

Minnesota  * . 

$6,636 

83% 

$6,024 

75% 

$6,828 

85% 

Mississippi . 

$6,828 

85%** 

— 

— 

$6,828 

85% 

Missouri  * . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,816 

85% 

Montana . 

$6,636 

83% 

$4,596 

77% 

$6,816 

85% 

Nebraska  * . 

$7,176 

89%** 

$4,704 

59% 

$6,828 

85% 

Nevada  . 

$7,524 

94% 

— 

— 

(d) 

New  Hampshire  * . 

$6,648 

83% 

$6,648 

83% 

$6,828 

85% 

New  Jersey . 

$8,016 

100%** 

$5,196 

65% 

$8,016 

100% 

New  Mexico . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,828 

85% 

New  York . 

$7,908 

99% 

$7,908 

99% 

$8,028 

100% 

North  Carolina  * . 

$3,696 

46% 

$3,696 

46% 

$6,408 

80% 

North  Dakota  * . 

$6,636 

83% 

$4,800 

60% 

$6,828 

85% 

Ohio  * . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,420 

80% 

Oklahoma  * . 

$8,172 

102% 

$4,092 

51% 

$7,224 

90% 

Oregon . 

$6,571 

82% 

$5,892 

73% 

$6,816 

85% 

Pennsylvania . 

$8,016 

100%** 

$5,100 

64% 

$8,016 

100% 

Rhode  Island . 

$8,016 

100% 

$7,104 

89% 

$6,816 

85% 

South  Carolina . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$8,016 

100% 

South  Dakota . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,828 

85% 

Tennessee . 

$6,636 

83% 

$2,304 

29% 

$6,828 

85% 

Texas . 

$6,636 

83% 

— 

— 

$6,828 

85% 

Utah . 

$6,636 

83% 

$4,956 

62% 

$8,016 

100% 

Vermont  . 

$8,796 

110%** 

$8,796 

110% 

$6,897 

86% 

VirniniA  *  . 

$6,636 

83% 

$3,696 

46% 

$6,816 

85% 

Wa«hinntnn  . 

$6,900 

86% 

$6,384 

80% 

$6,816 

85% 

West  Virginia . 

$6,636 

83% 

$3,300 

41% 

$6,816 

85% 

$8,616 

107% 

$7,092 

88% 

$8,016 

100% 

Wyoming . 

$6,876 

86% 

" 

~ 

$7,056 

88% 

criteria  than  the  SSI  standard  ($6,636  per  year  for  couples  at  83%  of  poverty)  to  determine  Medicaid  eligibility. 


NOTES: 

*  209(b)  states;  may  use  more  restrictive 
**  1986  OBRA  eligibility  level  used. 

—  Signifies  option  not  covered  by  state. 

is 

(c)  Not  effective  until  January  1,  1990. 

(d)  Nevada  does  not  use  a  separate  eligibility  level  for  couples. 
SOURCE:  Rowland,  Salganicoff,  and  Lyons,  1990. 


135 


Table  9  Medicaid  Resource  Eligibility  Limits  for 
the  Elderly  Population,  1989 


State 

Individuals 

Couples 

Average . 

$2,242 

$3,384 

Alabama . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Alaska . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Arizona . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Arkansas . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

California . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Colorado . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Connecticut  * . 

$1,600 

$2,400 

Delaware . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

District  of  Columbia . 

$2,600** 

$3,000 

Florida . 

$5,000** 

$6,000** 

Georgia . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Hawaii  * . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Idaho . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Illinois  * . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Indiana  * . 

$1,500 

$2,250 

Iowa . 

$5,000** 

$7,500** 

Kansas . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Kentucky  * . 

$2,000** 

$4,000** 

Louisiana . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Maine . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Maryland . 

$2,500** 

$3,000** 

Massachusetts . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Michigan . 

$2,000 

$3^000 

Minnesota  * . 

$3,000 

$6,000  ' 

Mississippi . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Missouri  * . 

$1,000 

$2,000 

Montana . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Nebraska  * . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Nevada . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

New  Hampshire  * . 

$2,500** 

$4,000** 

New  Jersey . 

$4,000** 

$6,000** 

New  Mexico . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

New  York . 

$3,250 

$4,950 

North  Carolina  * . 

$1,500 

$2,250 

North  Dakota  * . 

$3,000** 

$6,000** 

Ohio  * . 

$1,500 

$2,250 

Oklahoma  * . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Oregon . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Pennsylvania . 

$2,400** 

$3,000 

Rhode  Island . 

$4,000** 

$6,000** 

South  Carolina . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

South  Dakota . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Tennessee . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Texas . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Utah . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Vermont . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Virginia  * . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Washington . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

West  Virginia . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Wisconsin . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

Wyoming . 

$2,000 

$3,000 

*  209(b)  States  may  use  more  restrictive  criteria  than  the  SSI  standard  ($2,000  in 
resources  for  individual)  in  determining  eligibility  for  Medicaid. 

“Where  state  has  a  Medically  Needy  program  with  a  higher  resource  standard 
than  Categorically  Needy  program,  the  higher  standard  is  reported. 

SOURCE:  Rowland,  Salganicoff,  and  Lyons,  1990. 


The  “Medicare  buy-in”  provisions  of  the  Medicare 
Catastrophic  Coverage  Act  of  1988  will  help  expand 


the  protection  available  to  poor  elderly  people  under 
the  Medicaid  program  (Christensen  and  Kasten, 
1988).  As  of  July  1992,  all  states  will  be  required  to 
provide  Medicaid  coverage  for  Medicare  premiums 
and  cost-sharing  to  all  elderly  individuals  and  couples 
with  incomes  below  the  poverty  level  and  assets  of 
less  than  $4,000  for  individuals  and  $6,000  for  couples. 
The  new  asset  levels  are  twice  as  high  as  the  SSI  re¬ 
source  standards.  This  provision  was  retained  despite 
the  repeal  of  most  of  the  other  parts  of  the  Cata¬ 
strophic  Coverage  legislation. 

Under  the  Medicare  buy-in  provision,  states  pro¬ 
vide  financial  assistance  to  beneficiaries  by  paying  the 
Medicare  Part  B  premium  as  well  as  deductibles  and 
coinsurance  arising  from  use  of  covered  medical  serv¬ 
ices.  Those  covered  by  “buy-in”  are  referred  to  as 
“qualified  Medicare  beneficiaries  or  QMBs.”  These  in¬ 
dividuals,  however,  are  still  not  eligible  for  full  Med¬ 
icaid  benefits,  including  services  such  as  prescription 
drugs  and  hearing  and  vision  care.  Thus,  the  buy-in 
population  has  less  comprehensive  coverage  than 
those  who  are  entitled  to  full  benefits  (Rowland, 
Salganicoff,  and  Lyons,  1989). 

Medicaid  assistance  to  poor  elderly  people  is  lim¬ 
ited  because  participation  rates  are  low.  It  is  estimated 
that  half  of  beneficiaries  potentially  eligible  for  SSI 
and  Medicaid  coverage  do  not  enroll  (Commonwealth 
Fund  Commission,  1987).  About  half  of  those  not  par¬ 
ticipating  appear  to  be  unaware  of  the  program  or  of 
their  own  potential  eligibility.  Many  elderly  people  do 
not  appear  to  understand  the  benefits  available  under 
Medicaid  and  others  are  reluctant  to  apply  to  a  wel¬ 
fare-based  program. 

Medicaid  provides  even  more  limited  assistance  to 
the  near-poor.  Only  11  states  cover  individuals  with 
incomes  at  or  above  the  poverty  level  and  no  states 
provide  assistance  to  individuals  with  incomes  over 
150  percent  of  poverty.  As  a  result,  only  10  percent 
of  the  near-poor  receive  any  assistance  from  Medi¬ 
caid.  Many  who  are  covered  spend-down  as  a  result 
of  large  medical  bills.  Without  Medicaid  coverage, 
the  near-poor  must  pay  Medicare  premiums  as  well  as 
purchase  private  insurance  if  they  want  help  with 
Medicare  cost-sharing.  These  premium  payments 
alone  can  leave  them  economically  strapped. 

Lack  of  Supplemental  Coverage — The  6.5  million  el¬ 
derly  people  who  rely  solely  on  Medicare  for  assist¬ 
ance  with  medical  bills  are  particularly  at-risk  for 
impoverishment  should  they  incur  large  medical  bills. 
Poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people  are  the  most  likely 
to  be  without  either  Medicaid  or  private  insurance  to 
supplement  Medicare.  Thirty-four  percent  of  poor 
and  28  percent  of  near-poor  elderly  people  rely  solely 


136 


on  Medicare  for  assistance  with  their  medical  bills. 
For  them,  Medicare  premiums  and  cost-sharing  and 
payments  for  uncovered  services  are  all  out-of-pocket 
expenditures.  Among  elderly  people  who  have  only 
Medicare  coverage,  almost  60  percent  are  poor  or 
near-poor. 

In  sum,  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people  often 
face  large  medical  bills  without  the  assurance  that 
either  Medicaid  or  privately  purchased  supplemental 
insurance  policies  will  help  fill  Medicare’s  gaps.  Al¬ 
though  it  is  not  surprising  that  poor  and  near-poor  el¬ 
derly  people  do  not  purchase  private  supplementary 
coverage  at  rates  comparable  to  higher  income  el¬ 
derly  people,  the  limited  assistance  provided  by  Med¬ 
icaid  is  disturbing  because  Medicaid  is  intended  to 
assist  low-income  elderly  people. 


Utilization  of  Health  Services 

Lack  of  supplementary  coverage  to  fill  in  gaps  in 
Medicare  coverage  influences  access  to  health  care 
services  by  elderly  people.  Although  Medicare  cover¬ 
age  is  universal,  ability  to  pay  for  Medicare’s  cost- 
sharing  requirements  varies  for  elderly  people  at 
different  income  levels.  When  utilization  of  ambula¬ 
tory  care  services  is  examined  after  controlling  for 
socioeconomic  and  health  status  differences,  those  re¬ 
lying  solely  on  Medicare  for  coverage  use  fewer 
health  services  than  those  with  supplementary  cover¬ 
age  from  either  Medicaid  or  private  insurance 
(Table  10). 


Table  10  Use  of  Physician  Services  and  Pre¬ 
scription  Drugs  by  the  Elderly  Population  by 
Insurance  Coverage,  1987 


Total 

Medicare 

Only 

Medicare  & 
Private 

Medicare  & 
Medicaid 

Physician  Visits  * 

Percent  With  No 

Physician  Visits . 

12% 

16% 

8% 

7% 

Number  of  Visits  per 

User 

8.3 

6.3 

8.4 

8.4 

Number  of  Visits  per 

Enrollee . 

7.3 

5.3 

7.8 

7.8 

Prescription  Drug 

Use  * 

Number  of  Prescriptions 

per  User . 

17.9 

15.1 

18.8 

19.4 

Number  of  Prescriptions 

per  Enrollee . 

14.7 

12.0 

16.6 

16.8 

•  Predicted  utilization  adjusted  for  socioeconomic  and  health  characteristics. 
SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office,  1989  based  on  analysts  of  the  198' 
National  Medical  Expenditure  Survey. 


Figure  8  Utilization  of  Physician  Services  *  by 
the  Elderly  Population  by  Insurance  Coverage, 
1987 


Percent  of  Elderly  with  No 
Physician  Visits  in  Past  Year 


Percent 


Annual  Physician  Visits 

Number  per  user 

r 


•adjusted  for  socioeconomic  characteristics 
and  health  status 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office,  1 989  based  on  analysis  of  the  1 987  National 
Medical  Expenditure  Survey. 

Elderly  people  with  Medicare-only  coverage  are 
twice  as  likely  to  have  no  physician  visits  during  a 
year  as  those  with  supplemental  coverage.  Sixteen 
percent  of  elderly  people  with  Medicare  only  report 
no  physician  visits  in  contrast  to  eight  percent  of 
those  with  private  insurance  and  seven  percent  of 
those  with  Medicaid  (Figure  8).  Among  those  who 
use  physician  services,  adequacy  of  financial  protec¬ 
tion  through  coverage  to  supplement  Medicare  again 
plays  a  significant  role.  After  adjusting  for  health 
status,  the  elderly  users  of  physician  care  with  Medi¬ 
care-only  coverage  average  6.3  physician  visits  per 


137 


year  compared  to  8.4  visits  for  those  with  Medicaid 
coverage  or  private  insurance  to  supplement 
Medicare. 

Access  for  physician  services  has  spillover  effects 
on  utilization  of  other  health  care  services.  Physicians 
prescribe  medications  for  their  patients  and  Medicare 
beneficiaries,  especially  those  in  fair  or  poor  health, 
are  heavy  users  of  prescription  drugs  (Moeller  and 
Mathiowetz,  1989).  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that 
the  lower  levels  of  physician  care  for  those  with 
Medicare-only  coverage  are  also  associated  with  re¬ 
duced  levels  of  prescription  drug  use.  The  Medicare- 
only  population  averages  12  prescriptions  per  year 
compared  to  16  for  the  privately  insured  population 
and  17  prescriptions  for  the  Medicaid  population 
(Figure  9).  Since  Medicare  does  not  cover  prescrip¬ 
tion  drugs,  but  Medicaid  and  some  private  insurance 
plans  do,  the  combined  influence  of  economic  cost 
and  physician  access  undoubtedly  contributes  to  the 
lower  use  levels  by  the  Medicare-only  population. 

Figure  9  Utilization  of  Prescription  Drugs  *  by 
the  Elderly  Population  by  Insurance  Coverage, 

1987 


Number  per  Enrollee 


Total  Medicare  Medicare  Medicare  & 
Elderly  Only  &  Private  Medicaid 


•adjusted  for  socioeconomic 
characteristics  and  health  status 

SOURCE:  Congressional  Budget  Office,  1 989  based  on  analysis  of  the  1 987  National 
Medical  Expenditure  Survey. 


Similarly,  the  hospitalization  rates  for  the  elderly 
appear  to  have  both  economic  and  physician  access 
implications.  The  poor  without  coverage  to  supple¬ 
ment  Medicare  have  26  hospitalizations  per  100 
people  compared  to  46  hospitalizations  per  100  for  the 
privately  insured  non-poor  population  (Figure  10).  Al¬ 
though  the  poor  who  report  their  health  as  fair  or 
poor  fare  better,  they  still  lag  behind  those  with  better 
insurance  coverage.  After  adjusting  for  health  status, 
the  poor  population  with  Medicare-only  coverage  has 
a  hospitalization  rate  of  42  hospitalizations  per  100 
people  compared  to  57  hospitalizations  per  100  non¬ 
poor  elderly  people.  Despite  poor  health  status,  el¬ 
derly  people  with  incomes  at  or  below  poverty  who 
are  at  risk  for  full  payment  of  Medicare’s  hospital  de¬ 
ductible  and  cost-sharing  burdens  appear  to  receive 
less  care  than  their  more  affluent  and  better  insured 
counterparts. 

Figure  10  Hospitalization  Rates  for  Selected 
Groups  of  Elderly  People,  1984 


Hospital  Admissions  per  100  persons 


Total  Elderly  In  Fair 

Elderly  or  Poor  Health 


SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  of  the  non-institutionalized  elderly 
based  on  the  1984  Supplement  on  Aging  to  the  National  Health  Interview  Survey. 


Financial  Burden  for  Medical  Care 

Medicare  provides  essential  protection  for  medical 
care  expenses  for  elderly  Americans  by  financing 


138 


most  hospital  and  physician  care.  Yet  Medicare  cov¬ 
erage  is  neither  comprehensive  nor  free.  Many  acute 
care  services,  most  notably  prescription  drugs,  dental 
care,  and  vision  and  hearing  services,  are  not  covered 
by  Medicare.  The  elderly  contribute  to  Medicare  by 
paying  a  monthly  premium  for  physician  services 
under  Part  B  and  paying  cost-sharing  and  deductibles 
when  services  are  used. 

The  financial  burden  associated  with  out-of-pocket 
payments  for  Medicare  premiums  and  services  can  be 
substantial,  especially  for  low-income  elderly  people. 
In  1990,  the  hospital  deductible  is  $542  per  spell  of  ill¬ 
ness  combined  with  a  $75  deductible  and  20  percent 
coinsurance  on  most  Part  B  services  (Figure  11). 
Those  with  extended  hospital  stays  or  multiple  admis¬ 
sions  can  incur  even  greater  liabilities  (Christensen, 
Long,  and  Rodgers,  1987).  Moreover,  regardless  of 
use  of  health  services,  all  beneficiaries  pay  a  premium 
of  $28.60  per  month  for  Part  B  services,  totalling  $343 
for  1990. 


Figure  11  Medicare  Benefits  and  Cost-Sharing 
Liabilities  for  Hospital  and  Physician  Services, 
1990* 

Coverage  Beneficiary  Liability 

PART  A 

Hospital  Insurance  for  Inpatient  Services 

Hospital  deductible  $542  per  Admission 

Coinsurance  Days  61-90  $148  per  Day 

Coinsurance  for  60  $296  per  Day 

Lifetime  Reserve  Days 

PART  B 

Supplementary  Medical  Insurance  for  Physician  and  Related 

Services 

Premium  ($28.60  per  month)  $343  per  Year 

Deductible  $75  per  Year 

Coinsurance  20%  of  Medicare 

Allowable  Charge 

*  Effective  January  1 ,  1 990. 

SOURCE:  U.S.  Congress,  Ways  and  Means  Committee,  1989. 

Medicare  liabilities  for  the  Part  A  and  B 
deductibles  and  Part  B  cost-sharing  average  $491  for 
institutionalized  and  non-institutionalized  Medicare 
enrollees  (Table  11).  The  annual  cost  for  Medicare 
services  rises  to  $834  when  the  Part  B  premium  pay¬ 
ment  is  included.  These  Medicare  premiums  and  li¬ 
abilities  constitute  five  percent  of  the  mean  income  of 


$17,000  of  elderly  Medicare  enrollees.  The  burden, 
however,  falls  heaviest  on  those  with  low  incomes 
and  represents  18  percent  of  the  mean  income  for 
poor  and  ten  percent  for  near  poor  Medicare  benefici¬ 
aries  in  contrast  to  four  percent  of  mean  income  for 
non-poor  beneficiaries.  Yet,  Medicare  liabilities  alone 
understate  the  true  financial  burden  for  medical  care 
for  elderly  people  because  the  cost  of  uncovered 
services  and  premiums  for  private  insurance  are  not 
included. 


Table  11  Cost-Sharing  Liabilities  for  Elderly 
Medicare  Enrollees  *  Resulting  From  the  Use  of 
Medicare  Services,  1990 


Total 

Elderly 

Poor 

(less 

than 

100% 

poverty) 

Near- 

Poor 

(100- 

199% 

poverty) 

Non-Poor 

(more 

than 

200% 

poverty) 

Total  Medicare  Liability . 

$834 

$836 

$854 

$824 

Medicare  Cost-Sharing . 

$491 

$493 

$511 

$481 

Hospital . 

$170 

$175 

$189 

$161 

Physician . 

$321 

$318 

$322 

$320 

Annual  Medicare  Part  B 

Premium  ** . 

$343 

$343 

$343 

$343 

Mean  Income . 

$17,170 

$4,709 

$8,893 

$22,592 

Medicare  Liability  as  a  Per- 

cent  of  Mean  Income . 

5% 

18% 

10% 

4% 

*  Includes  both  institutional  and  community-based  elderly  Medicare  enrollees. 
**  Premium  effective  as  of  January  1,  1990. 

SOURCE:  Christensen,  S„  1989. 


Out-of-Pocket  Spending  and  Income — On  average, 
elderly  people  living  in  the  community  spend  11  per¬ 
cent  of  their  per  capita  incomes  on  out-of-pocket  pay¬ 
ments  for  Medicare  cost-sharing,  uncovered  services, 
and  premium  payments  (Figure  12).  These  expenses 
consume  a  greater  portion  of  the  income  of  low- 
income  people  than  of  higher  income  individuals 
(Feder,  Moon,  and  Scanlon,  1987b).  The  poor  and 
near-poor  with  per  capita  incomes  of  less  than  $10,000 
spent  an  average  of  14  percent  of  income  on  medi¬ 
cally-related  expenses  compared  to  seven  percent  of 
income  for  the  non-poor  elderly  population  with  in¬ 
comes  above  $10,000. 

The  components  of  out-of-pocket  medical  spending 
by  the  elderly  population  reveal  the  substantial  share 
of  spending  attributable  to  premium  payments  (Figure 
13).  Over  half  of  all  out-of-pocket  costs  of  elderly 
people  are  for  premiums.  The  Medicare  Part  B  pre¬ 
mium  accounts  for  16  percent  of  total  spending  and 
payments  for  private  supplementary  coverage  consti¬ 
tute  40  percent  of  total  spending.  Prescription  drugs 
account  for  12  percent  of  spending  (Table  12).  An  ex¬ 
amination  of  out-of-pocket  spending  by  income  shows 


139 


that  drugs  are  a  higher  share  of  out-of-pocket  spend¬ 
ing  for  lower  income  elderly  people  than  those  more 
economically  advantaged. 

Figure  12  Out-of-Pocket  Expenses  for  Medical 
Care  as  a  Percent  of  Per  Capita  Income,  1986 


Percent 


Total  Elderly  Low-Income  Higher-Income 

Elderly  Elderly 


Note:  Low  Income  ■  $10,000  or  leas; 

Higher  Income  ■  More  than  $10,000 

SOURCE:  Feder,  Moon,  and  Scanlon,  1987  based  on  analysis  of  the  1980  National 
Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 

The  difference  in  spending  between  lower  and 
higher  income  people  is  not  due  to  a  heavier  premium 
burden  for  low-income  people.  Excluding  the  Medi¬ 
care  Part  B  premium  and  the  out-of-pocket  payments 
for  private  health  insurance  premiums  reduces  overall 
spending  for  health  care  to  four  percent  of  income, 
but  the  poor  continue  to  spend  a  higher  proportion 
(12  percent  of  income)  than  other  elderly  people  on 
cost-sharing  and  uncovered  services  (Kovar,  1986). 

Poor  and  near-poor  elderly  people  with  incomes 
below  $10,000  are  more  likely  to  have  catastrophic 
levels  of  out-of-pocket  spending  than  other  elderly 
people  (Feder,  Moon,  and  Scanlon,  1987a).  Cata¬ 
strophic  expenses  are  generally  defined  as  expendi¬ 
tures  at  or  above  15  percent  of  income.  Using  this 
definition,  37  percent  of  low-income  elderly  individ¬ 
uals  in  contrast  to  six  percent  of  higher  income  indi¬ 
viduals  have  catastrophic  expenses  (Figure  14).  The 
need  for  hospital  care  substantially  increases  the  likeli¬ 


hood  of  catastrophic  spending.  Over  half  (56  percent) 
of  low-income  individuals  with  a  hospital  stay  had 
catastrophic  costs  compared  to  32  percent  of  low- 
income  individuals  without  a  hospital  stay. 


Table  12  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  for  Medical 
Care  by  the  Elderly  Population,  1989 


Total 

Elderly 

Poor 

(less  than 
100% 
poverty) 

Near- 

Poor 

(100- 

150% 

poverty) 

Non-Poor 

(more 

than 

150% 

poverty) 

Total  Elderly . 

$1,237 

$755 

$1,004 

$1,391 

Premiums  * . 

$699 

$376 

$517 

$809 

Cost-Sharing  and  Non- 

Covered  Services . 

$393 

$265 

$330 

$435 

Drugs . 

$145 

$114 

$157 

$148 

Percent  Distribution 

Total  Elderly . 

100% 

100% 

100% 

100% 

Premiums  * . 

56% 

50% 

51% 

58% 

Cost-Sharing  and  Non- 

Covered  Services . 

32% 

35% 

33% 

31% 

Drugs . 

12% 

15% 

16% 

11% 

*  Indicates  premiums  for  Medicare  Pari  B  and  private  supplemental  insurance. 
SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  based  on  Georgetown  Policy  Associ¬ 
ates,  1987  analysis  of  the  1980  National  Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure 
Survey. 


Figure  13  Components  of  Out-of-Pocket 
Spending  for  Medical  Care,  1989 


Physician 

Services 

16% 

Total  ■  $1,237  per  elderly  person 

SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  based  on  Georgetown  Policy  Associates  analysis 
of  the  1 980  National  Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 

Role  of  Insurance:  Medicaid  and  Medigap — Medi¬ 
caid  and  private  supplementary  insurance  are  essential 
complements  to  Medicare  coverage  for  those  with  se¬ 
rious  illness  and  the  need  for  hospitalization.  Low- 
income  elderly  people  with  a  hospital  stay  who  are 
only  covered  by  Medicare  spend  23  percent  of  their 


140 


income  on  medical  expenses  compared  to  20  percent 
for  those  with  private  insurance  and  14  percent  for 
those  with  Medicaid  (Figure  15).  However,  for  the 
healthier  low-income  elderly  without  the  need  for 
hospital  care,  private  insurance  is  not  a  good  use  of 
limited  resources.  For  low-income  people  without  a 
hospitalization,  out-of-pocket  spending  including  pri¬ 
vate  insurance  premiums  accounts  for  17  percent  of 
income  in  contrast  to  nine  percent  for  those  with 
Medicare  only  and  seven  percent  for  those  with 
Medicaid. 


Figure  14  Percent  of  Elderly  People  With  Out- 
of-Pocket  Spending  for  Acute  Care  Exceeding 
15  Percent  of  Income,  1986 


Percent 


66% 


Total  Elderly  Elderly  with  Elderly  without 

a  Hospital  Stay  a  Hospital  Stay 


Note:  Low  Income  ■  $10,000  or  less: 

Higher  Income  •  More  than  $10,000 

SOURCE:  Feder,  Moon,  and  Scanlon,  1987  based  on  analysis  of  the  1980  National 
Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 


Medicaid  clearly  helps  to  reduce  fmancial  burdens 
for  those  who  are  covered.  The  poor  elderly  popula¬ 
tion  covered  by  Medicaid  had  out-of-pocket  expenses 
of  $287  per  year  in  1989  in  contrast  to  expenses  ex¬ 
ceeding  $1,000  for  the  poor  and  near-poor  without 
Medicaid  coverage  (Figure  16).  Poor  elderly  people 
without  Medicaid  coverage  paid  twice  as  much  for 
prescription  drugs  and  four  times  more  for  cost-shar¬ 
ing  and  uncovered  services  than  the  poor  with  Medi¬ 
caid  (Table  13).  Medicaid  coverage  of  prescription 
drugs  helps  reduce  the  economic  barriers  that  impede 


utilization  for  the  low-income  elderly.  Annual  pre¬ 
scription  drug  expenditures  for  those  with  Medicaid 
are  a  third  higher  than  expenditures  for  those  without 
drug  coverage  (Mathiowetz,  1990). 


Figure  15  Out-of-Pocket  Spending  as  a  Percent 
of  Income  for  Low-Income  *  Elderly  People  by 
Hospital  Use  and  Insurance  Coverage,  1986 


Percent 

30%  r 


23% 


Elderly  with 
a  Hospital  Stay 


Medicare  Only 
V////A  Medicare  4  Private 
i _ I  Medicare  4  Medicaid 


17% 


Elderly  without 
a  Hospital  Stay 


•Income  of  $10,000  or  less 

SOURCE:  Feder,  Moon,  and  Scanlon,  1987  based  on  analysis  of  the  1980  National 
Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 


The  greatest  savings  for  those  fortunate  enough  to 
have  Medicaid  coverage  come  from  reduced  premium 
payments.  Those  without  Medicaid  coverage  pay 
more  out-of-pocket  in  premium  costs  than  their  Med¬ 
icaid  covered  counterparts  pay  in  total.  The  elderly 
poor  who  have  buy-in  coverage  but  are  not  entitled 
to  full  Medicaid  benefits  pay  more  out-of-pocket 
($433),  but  are  still  better  off  than  those  who  are 
Medicare  only  or  privately  insured. 

For  many  near-poor  elderly  people  medical  ex¬ 
penses  can  reduce  their  meager  incomes  to  levels  that 
in  effect  shift  them  into  poverty.  A  single  elderly 
person  with  an  income  of  $7,500  is  technically  not 
poor.  However,  if  that  individual  had  out-of-pocket 
expenses  for  cost-sharing  and  prescription  drugs  that 
exceeded  $1,500,  those  expenses  would  reduce  the 
income  available  for  daily  living  expenses  to  below 


141 


the  poverty  level.  In  this  way,  many  non-poor  elderly  B  or  Medigap,  serious  illness  can  bring  financial 

people  can  actually  become  impoverished  by  their  devastation, 

medical  expenses. 


Figure  16  The  Impact  of  Medicaid  on  Out-of- 
Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care  by  Low- 
income  *  Elderly  People,  1989 


Dollars  per  Person 


L . . 1  Drugs 


Cost-Sharing  &  Non- Covered 
Services 


Full  Buy-In  Only  Poor  Near-Poor 

Medicaid 

Poor  With  Medicaid  Without  Medicaid 


•Poor  •  Less  than  100%  of  Poverty 
Near-Poor  •  100-160%  of  Poverty 

SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  based  on  Georgetown  Policy 
Associates  analysis  of  the  1 980  National  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 


Many  near-poor  elderly  people  are,  in  fact,  the 
hidden  poor.  One-third  of  near-poor  elderly  people 
are  reduced  to  poverty  by  their  out-of-pocket  pay¬ 
ments  for  medical  care.  Elderly  people  in  higher 
income  groups  also  suffer  a  reduced  standard  of  living 
(Table  14).  If  poverty  rates  were  calculated  after  de¬ 
ducting  medical  expenses  from  available  income,  the 
percent  of  elderly  people  who  are  living  in  poverty 
would  increase  from  12  percent  to  17  percent 
(Figure  17). 

Premium  payments  to  assure  protection  against  un¬ 
expected  or  large  medical  expenses  are  a  major  con¬ 
tributor  to  the  expenses  impoverishing  many  elderly 
people.  Medicare  premiums  and  out-of-pocket  pay¬ 
ments  to  purchase  private  Medigap  coverage  accounts 
for  40  percent  of  the  out-of-pocket  spending  by  the 
medically  impoverished  (Commonwealth  Fund 
Commission,  1987).  However,  without  Medicare  Part 


Table  13  The  Impact  of  Medicaid  on  Out-of- 
Pocket  Spending  for  Medical  Care  by  Low-In¬ 
come  Elderly  People,  1989 


Poor  With  Medicaid 

Without  Medicaid 

Full 

Medicaid 

Buy-In 

Only 

Poor 

Near- 

Poor 

Total  Elderly . 

$287 

$433 

$1,015 

$1,167 

Premiums  * . 

$145 

$165 

$562 

$650 

Cost-Sharing  and  Non- 

Covered  Services . 

$71 

$114 

$299 

$328 

Drugs . 

$71 

$154 

$154 

$189 

Percent  Distribution 

Total  Elderly . 

100% 

100% 

100% 

100% 

Premiums  * . 

50% 

38% 

55% 

56% 

Cost-Sharing  and  Non- 

Covered  Services . 

25% 

26% 

30% 

28% 

Drugs . 

25% 

36% 

15% 

16% 

Note: 

Poor  =  Less  than  100%  poverty 
Near-Poor  =  100-150%  poverty 

*  Indicates  premiums  for  Medicare  Part  B  and  private  supplemental  insurance. 
SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  based  on  Georgetown  Policy  Associ¬ 
ates,  1987  analysis  of  the  1980  National  Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure 
Survey. 


Expanding  Medicaid  coverage  to  more  poor  and 
near-poor  elderly  people  would  assist  in  moderating 
out-of-pocket  expenditures  for  medical  care  and  pre¬ 
miums  and  could  help  prevent  impoverishment  of 
many  older  people.  Poor  elderly  people  with  Medi¬ 
caid  coverage  have  the  most  comprehensive  protec¬ 
tion  while  those  with  only  coverage  from  Medicare 
are  the  most  at  risk  of  financial  devastation  from 
illness. 


Table  14  Shifts  in  Poverty  Status  Due  to  Medical 

Expenses 


Poverty  Status  Before  Medical 
Expenses 

Poor 

(less  than 
100% 
poverty) 

Near- 

Poor 

(100- 

149% 

poverty) 

Modest 

(150- 

299% 

poverty) 

Moderate 
to  High 
(more 
than 
300% 
poverty) 

Poor  (less  than  100% 

poverty) . 

100.0 

Near-Poor  (100-149% 

poverty) . 

32.3 

67.7 

Modest  (150-299%  pover- 

ty) . 

0.3 

15.3 

84.4 

Moderate  to  High  (300% 

poverty  or  more) . 

12.3 

87.7 

SOURCE:  Estimates  prepared  by  Georgetown  Policy  Associates  based  on  1980 
National  Medical  Care  Utilization  and  Expenditure  Survey. 


142 


Figure  17  Poverty  Among  Elderly  People  Before 
and  After  Medical  Expenses 


Percent 


WM  Before  HI  After 


17% 


Total  Elderly 


SOURCE:  Commonwealth  Fund  Commission  on  Elderly  People  Living  Alone,  1987. 


Plan  for  Reform 

The  greater  financial  burdens  of  low-income  people 
in  comparison  to  the  more  affluent  elderly  population 
mean  that  access  to  care  and  use  of  appropriate  medi¬ 
cal  care  can  be  placed  in  jeopardy  by  financial  consid¬ 
erations.  The  lower  utilization  levels  of  the  elderly 
population  relying  solely  on  Medicare  coverage  dem¬ 
onstrates  the  importance  of  adequate  supplementary 
insurance  to  alleviate  the  financial  burdens  for  Medi¬ 
care  cost-sharing  and,  in  some  cases,  assist  with  pay¬ 
ment  for  uncovered  services,  such  as  prescription 
drugs. 

Medicaid  coverage  to  supplement  Medicare  is  a 
highly  targeted  approach  to  improve  access  to  medi¬ 
cal  care,  ease  financial  burdens,  and  eliminate  the 
need  for  poor  and  near-poor  individuals  to  pay  pre¬ 
miums  for  private  insurance.  Use  of  medical  services 
by  those  with  Medicaid  coverage  is  comparable  to 
utilization  levels  by  those  with  private  insurance  and 
significantly  higher  than  that  of  the  Medicare-only 
population. 


Medicaid  coverage  has  also  been  shown  to  ease  fi¬ 
nancial  burdens  significantly.  Poor  elderly  people 
with  Medicaid  coverage  spend  less  than  $300  per  year 
out-of-pocket  compared  to  over  $1,000  per  year  for 
the  uncovered  poor  and  near-poor  elderly  population. 
Much  of  the  difference  in  out-of-pocket  spending  is 
due  to  premium  payments  and  out-of-pocket  spending 
for  drugs  by  those  without  Medicaid.  Payment  of 
Medicare  premiums  and  elimination  of  the  need  to 
purchase  private  coverage  is,  in  fact,  Medicaid’s 
greatest  contribution  to  easing  financial  burdens  for 
medical  care  among  the  low-income  population. 

Medicaid  currently  operates  as  the  safety-net 
Medigap  plan  for  two  million  poor  and  near-poor 
Medicare  beneficiaries,  but  Medicaid’s  reach  is  lim¬ 
ited.  Nearly  10  million  low-income  elderly  people  are 
not  assisted  by  Medicaid  and  are  left  on  their  own  to 
pay  Medicare  and  insurance  premiums  and  cover 
cost-sharing.  When  the  Medicare  buy-in  provision  of 
the  Medicare  Catastrophic  Coverage  Act  is  fully  im¬ 
plemented  in  1992,  states  will  be  required  to  pay  the 
Medicare  premium  and  cost-sharing  requirements  for 
all  beneficiaries  with  incomes  below  the  poverty 
level.  However,  some  poor  elderly  people  will  not 
qualify  because  their  assets  exceed  the  permissible 
level  of  $4,000  for  Medicaid  eligibility  and  the 
provision  does  not  extend  to  the  near-poor  elderly 
population. 

The  scope  of  Medicaid  protection  should  be  broad¬ 
ened  to  pay  Medicare  premiums  and  cost-sharing  and 
cover  prescription  drugs  for  all  low-income  elderly 
people  with  incomes  below  200  percent  of  the  Fed¬ 
eral  poverty  level  (roughly  12,000  in  1989).  On  a  per 
capita  basis,  the  average  cost  of  these  benefits  is  esti¬ 
mated  at  about  $1,250  in  1990  including  $343  for  the 
Medicare  Part  B  premium,  $500  for  cost-sharing 
under  Part  A  and  B,  and  $425  for  the  prescription 
drug  benefit. 

For  the  3.5  million  elderly  people  living  on  incomes 
below  the  poverty  level,  Medicaid  would  cover  the 
full  cost  of  these  benefits  without  cost-sharing.  The 
8.2  million  near-poor  elderly  people  with  incomes  be¬ 
tween  100  and  200  percent  of  the  poverty  level  would 
receive  comparable  assistance  from  Medicaid,  but 
would  contribute  to  premium  and  cost-sharing  obliga¬ 
tions  and  prescription  drug  costs  on  a  sliding  scale. 
Those  with  incomes  from  100-149  percent  of  poverty 
would  pay  25  percent  of  the  cost  and  those  with  in¬ 
comes  from  150  to  200  percent  of  poverty  would  con¬ 
tribute  50  percent. 

Eligibility  for  Medicaid  assistance  would  be  deter¬ 
mined  solely  on  the  basis  of  income,  without  regard 
to  asset  levels.  Currently,  individuals  with  assets  in 


143 


excess  of  $4,000  and  couples  with  assets  above  $6,000 
are  generally  ineligible  for  Medicaid  coverage.  Elimi¬ 
nating  the  asset  test  will  simplify  the  eligibility 
process  and  remove  some  of  the  welfare  stigma  of 
Medicaid.  It  should  help  increase  participation  in 
Medicaid  by  low-income  elderly  people. 

This  proposal  would  expand  coverage  to  9.9  million 
low-income  elderly  people  currently  without  Medi¬ 
caid  coverage  (Table  15).  Improved  protection  would 
be  provided  to  2.5  million  poor  elderly  people.  Al¬ 
though  many  of  these  people  became  eligible  for  buy- 
in  assistance  as  a  result  of  the  Medicare  Catastrophic 
Coverage  Act,  this  proposal  would  expand  Medicaid 
protection  to  also  include  coverage  of  prescription 
drugs.  In  addition,  those  previously  excluded  from 
buy-in  assistance  under  MCCA  as  a  result  of  the  asset 
restrictions  would  now  be  eligible  for  Medicaid  cov¬ 
erage.  The  largest  group  of  beneficiaries  are  the  7.4 
million  near-poor  elderly  people  who  would  be  newly 
eligible  for  assistance  with  Medicare  premiums  and 
cost-sharing  and  coverage  of  prescription  drugs  under 
the  Medicaid  program. 

The  cost  of  this  proposal  is  estimated  to  be  $2.4  bil¬ 
lion  in  additional  Federal  revenues  in  1990  (Table  16). 
State  matching  expenditures  are  estimated  at  $2.0  bil¬ 
lion,  for  a  total  cost  of  $4.4  billion  in  1990.  Within 
this  plan,  one-third  of  expenditures  would  be  for  im¬ 
proved  protection  of  the  poor  elderly  and  the  remain¬ 
der  would  be  directed  toward  expanding  coverage  to 
the  near-poor  elderly  population.  As  a  result,  Medi¬ 
caid  buy-in  assistance  and  prescription  drug  coverage 
would  be  available  to  supplement  Medicare  for  all 
11.7  million  low-income  elderly  Americans. 

Table  15  Number  of  New  Eligibles  Assisted  by 
Proposal  to  Expand  Medicaid  Coverage  of  the 
Low-Income  Elderly  Population,  1990 


Number  of  Elderly  People 
(millions) 


Total 

Current 

Medic¬ 

aid 

Benefi¬ 

ciaries 

New 

Medic¬ 

aid 

Eligibles 

Total  Low-Income  Elderly  Population . 

11.7 

1.8 

9.9 

Poor  Elderly  People  (less  than  100% 

poverty) . 

3.5 

1.0 

2.5 

Near-Poor  Elderly  People  (100-200% 

poverty) . 

8.2 

0.8 

7.4 

Note:  New  Medicaid  eligibles  includes  those  who  were  excluded  from  expansions 
of  buy-in  assistance  under  the  MCCA  due  to  asset  restrictions. 

SOURCE:  Johns  Hopkins  University  estimates  based  on  CBO  analysis  of  the 
Current  Population  Survey,  March  1989. 

These  cost  estimates  are  based  on  participation  rates 
of  100  percent  for  the  poor  elderly  who  would  be  eli¬ 


gible  to  receive  a  fully  subsidized  benefit  package  and 
50  percent  for  the  near-poor  who  would  be  required 
to  make  a  sliding  scale  contribution  based  on  income. 
Program  experience  has  generally  shown  lower  rates 
of  participation  for  Medicaid  largely  due  to  lack  of 
awareness  about  the  program  and  potential  eligibility, 
and  difficulty  in  completing  the  eligibility  process.  As 
a  result,  Medicaid  expansions  must  be  accompanied 
by  simplification  of  the  eligibility  process  and  commu¬ 
nity-level  outreach  programs  if  they  are  to  reach  their 
intended  target  populations. 

Table  16  Cost  of  Proposal  to  Expand  Medicaid 
Coverage  of  the  Low-Income  Elderly  Popula¬ 
tion,  1990 


Cost  (billions  of  dollars) 

Total 

Federal 

State 

Total  Low-Income  Elderly  Population . 

$4.4 

$2.4 

$2.0 

Buy-In  Assistance . 

$2.2 

$1.2 

$1.0 

Prescription  Drugs . 

$2.2 

$1.2 

$1.0 

Poor  Elderly  People  (less  than  100% 
poverty) . 

$1.4 

$0.8 

$0.6 

Buy-In  Assistance . 

$0.2 

$0.1 

$0.1 

Prescription  Drugs . 

$1.2 

$0.7 

$0.5 

Near-Poor  Elderly  People  (100-200% 
poverty) . 

$3.0 

$1.7 

$1.3 

Buy-In  Assistance . 

$2.0 

$1.1 

$0.9 

Prescription  Drugs . 

$1.0 

$0.6 

$0.4 

Note:  Buy-in  assistance  includes  the  Medicare  Part  B  premium  and  cost-sharing  for 
hospital  and  physician  services.  On  a  per  capita  basis,  the  cost  of  the  total  benefit 
package,  including  prescription  drugs,  is  estimated  to  be  about  $1,250. 

Cost  estimates  assume  a  full  year  of  implementation  and  a  participation  rate  of  100 
percent  for  poor  elderly  who  would  be  eligible  to  receive  a  fully  subsidized  benefit 
package  and  50  percent  for  the  near-poor  elderly  who  would  be  required  to  make  a 
sliding  scale  contribution  based  on  income.  Those  with  incomes  between  100  and 
149  percent  of  poverty  would  contribute  25  percent  of  the  total  benefit  cost  and 
those  with  incomes  between  150  and  200  percent  of  poverty  would  contribute  50 
percent. 

SOURCE:  Author’s  estimates  based  on  Christensen,  S.,  “Estimates  for  Aged 
Medicare  Enrollees,  1990.” 

Improving  Medicaid’s  assistance  to  low-income  el¬ 
derly  people  builds  on  the  Medicare  Catastrophic 
Coverage  Act’s  expansion  of  buy-in  protection  to 
Medicare  beneficiaries  with  incomes  below  poverty, 
but  broadens  the  scope  of  protection  to  include  pre¬ 
scription  drugs  and  offer  assistance  to  the  near-poor 
population.  The  administrative  structure  for  eligibility 
determination  and  payment  of  premiums  and  cost¬ 
sharing  is  already  in  place  in  most  states  and  can  be 
used  as  the  foundation  for  expanded  coverage.  With 
buy-in  coverage  plus  prescription  drug  coverage, 
Medicaid  will  provide  substantial  relief  from  the  pre¬ 
miums  and  out-of-pocket  financial  burdens  now  faced 
by  low-income  Medicare  beneficiaries.  In  addition, 
states  should  also  be  encouraged  to  expand  coverage 
to  other  services  generally  provided  by  Medicaid, 
such  as  dental  care  and  vision  and  hearing  services, 


144 


by  making  federal  matching  funds  available  to  states 
that  elect  to  offer  more  comprehensive  coverage. 

Expanding  Medicaid  assistance  for  the  low-income 
elderly  population  is  an  incremental  reform  that 
would  provide  immediate  relief  from  medical  burdens 
to  the  most  vulnerable  of  the  elderly  population.  Ex¬ 
tension  of  Medicaid’s  safety  net  is  essential  to  assure 
needed  medical  services  will  no  longer  impose  an  un- 

References 


Christensen,  Sandra.  1989.  “Estimates  for  Aged  Medicare  Enrollees,  1989.” 
CBO  Staff  Memorandum. 

Christensen,  Sandra,  and  Richard  Kasten.  1988.  “Covering  Catastrophic 
Expenses  under  Medicare.”  Health  Affairs.  Vol.  7,  No.  1  (Winter),  pp.  80-93. 

Christensen,  Sandra,  Stephen  Long  and  Jack  Rodgers.  1987.  “Acute 
Health  Care  Costs  for  the  Aged  Medicare  Population:  Overview  and  Policy 
Options.”  The  Milbank  Quarterly.  Vol.  65,  No.  3,  pp.  397-425. 

Commonwealth  Fund  Commission  on  Elderly  People  Living  Alone.  1987. 
Medicare's  Poor:  Filling  the  Gaps  in  Medical  Coverage  for  Low-Income  Elderly 
People.  Report  prepared  by  Diane  Rowland  and  Barbara  Lyons.  Baltimore, 
Maryland. 

Consumer’s  Union.  1989.  “Beyond  Medicare”  Consumer  Reports  (June),  pp. 
375-391. 

Feder,  Judith,  Marilyn  Moon  and  William  Scanlon.  1987a  “Medicare 
Reform:  Nibbling  at  Catastrophic  Costs.”  Health  Affairs.  Vol.  6,  No.  4 
(Winter),  pp.  5-19. 

Feder,  Judith,  Marilyn  Moon  and  William  Scanlon.  1987b.  “Catastrophic 
Health  Insurance  for  the  Elderly:  Options  and  Impacts.”  Working  Paper. 
Washington,  D.C. 

Georgetown  Policy  Associates.  1987.  “Health  Spending  and  Poverty 
Status  Among  the  Elderly.”  Final  Report  submitted  to  The  Commonwealth 
Fund  Commission  on  Elderly  People  Living  Alone.  Baltimore,  Maryland. 

Kennell,  David.  1990.  Unpublished  Statistics  from  the  Survey  of  Income 
and  Program  Participation.  Lewin/ICF,  Inc.  Washington,  D.C. 

Kovar,  Mary  Grace.  1986.  “Expenditures  for  the  Medical  Care  of  Elderly 
People  Living  in  the  Community.”  The  Milbank  Quarterly.  Vol.  64,  No.  1, 
pp.  100-132. 

Manning,  W.G.,  J.P.  Newhouse,  and  J.E.  Ware.  1981.  “The  Status  of 
Health  in  Demand  Estimates:  Beyond  Excellent,  Good,  Fair,  and  Poor."  In 


manageable  fmancial  burden  for  poor  and  near-poor 
elderly  Medicare  beneficiaries.  Future  initiatives  may 
look  to  broadening  the  scope  of  Medicare  coverage 
for  all  elderly  people,  but  in  the  short  run  Medicaid 
reforms  directed  toward  the  low-income  population 
can  make  a  measurable  difference  in  improving  access 
to  care  and  alleviating  the  fmancial  burdens  associated 
with  medical  care  services. 


Economic  Aspects  of  Health.  Ed.  V.R.  Fuchs.  Chicago  University.  Chicago, 
Illinois. 

Mathiowetz,  Nancy.  1989.  Unpublished  statistics  from  analysis  of  the  Na¬ 
tional  Medical  Expenditure  Survey.  Agency  for  Health  Care  Policy  and  Re¬ 
search.  Rockville,  Maryland. 

Moeller,  John,  and  Nancy  Mathiowetz.  1989.  Prescribed  Medicines.  A  Sum¬ 
mary  of  Use  and  Expenditures  by  Medicare  Beneficiaries.  DHHS  Pub.  No. 
(PHS)89-3448.  National  Medical  Expenditure  Survey  Research  Findings  3, 
National  Center  for  Health  Services  Research  and  Health  Care  Technology 
Assessment.  Rockville,  Maryland. 

Monheit,  Alan  and  Claudia  Schur.  1989.  Health  Insurance  Coverage  of  Re¬ 
tired  Persons.  DHHS  Pub.  No.  (PHS)  89-34411.  National  Medical  Expendi¬ 
ture  Survey  Research  Findings  2,  National  Center  for  Health  Services  Re¬ 
search  and  Health  Care  Technology  Assessment.  Rockville,  Maryland. 

Rice,  Thomas  and  Nelda  McCall.  1985.  “The  Extent  of  Ownership  and  the 
Characteristics  of  Medicare  Supplemental  Policies.”  Inquiry.  Vol.  22,  pp. 
188-200. 

Rowland,  Diane.  1989.  “Measuring  the  Need  for  Home  Care.”  Health  Af¬ 
fairs.  Vol.  8,  No.  4,  pp.  39-51. 

Rowland,  Diane,  Alina  Salganicoff,  and  Barbara  Lyons.  1989.  “The  Medi¬ 
care  Buy-In:  Variations  in  State  Medicaid  Policy.”  Report  prepared  for  the 
Families  U.S.A.  Foundation  and  the  Pepper  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Com¬ 
prehensive  Health  Care.  November. 

U.S.  Congress,  House  of  Respresentatives,  Committee  on  Ways  and  Means. 
1989.  Background  Material  and  Data  on  Programs  within  the  Jurisdiction  of  the 
Committee  on  Ways  and  Means.  WMCP:101-4.  Washington,  D.C.:  U.S.  GPO. 

U.S.  Congressional  Budget  Office.  1989.  Updated  Estimates  of  Medicare's 
Catastrophic  Drug  Insurance  Program.  October. 

U.S.  Congressional  Budget  Office.  1990.  Unpublished  estimates  prepared 
by  Jack  Rodgers  based  on  analysis  of  the  Current  Population  survey,  March 
1989. 


145 


Long-Term  Care 


CASE  MANAGEMENT  IN  LONG-TERM  CARE  * 


INTRODUCTION 

Case  management  is  used  in  many  different  settings 
and  for  a  variety  of  purposes.  As  a  result,  the  term 
case  management  means  different  things  to  different 
people.  Researchers,  health  care  and  social  service 
professionals,  policy  analysts,  and  others  who  talk 
about  case  management  may  or  may  not  be  talking 
about  the  same  thing. 

In  developing  a  national  long-term  care  program,  it 
is  important  to  be  as  clear  as  possible  about  what  case 
management  is  expected  to  do  and  how  it  should 
operate  in  the  program,  because  some  of  the  most  sig¬ 
nificant  outcomes  of  the  program  are  likely  to  be 
determined  within  the  case  management  process.  As 
discussed  in  this  paper,  case  management  is  likely  to 
be  the  mechanism  by  which  decisions  are  made  about 
the  amount  and  kind  of  services  people  will  receive 
through  the  program.  In  turn,  those  decisions  will  de¬ 
termine  the  cost  of  the  program,  how  people  perceive 
it,  and  whether  it  meets  their  needs. 

This  OTA  staff  paper  proposes  a  definition  of  case 
management  and  points  out  several  conceptual  dis¬ 
tinctions  that  are  important  in  thinking  about  the  case 
management  component  of  a  national  long-term  care 
program.  The  paper  discusses  whether  case  managers 
should  determine  the  amount  and  kind  of  services 
people  are  authorized  to  receive  through  the  program 
and  whether  the  case  management  component  of  the 
program  should  be  split  between  two  agencies.  The 
paper  also  reviews  some  findings  of  OTA’s  forth¬ 
coming  report,  Confused  Minds,  Burdened  Families: 
Finding  Help  for  People  With  Alzheimer's  and  Other 
Dementias,  that  relate  to  questions  about  the  agencies 
that  might  provide  case  management  in  a  national 
long-term  care  program  and  the  appropriate  role  of 
the  program  and  the  case  managers  who  implement  it 
with  respect  to  the  quality  of  the  long-term  care  serv¬ 
ices  that  are  provided  or  paid  for  by  the  program. 

•  This  staff  paper  was  prepared  for  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on 
Comprehensive  Health  Care  (The  Pepper  Commission),  by  the  Office  of 
Technology  Assessment,  Biological  Applications  Program,  February  5,  1990. 

The  views  expressed  in  this  staff  paper  do  not  represent  the  views  of  the 
Technology  Assessment  Board,  the  Technology  Assessment  Advisory  Coun¬ 
cil  or  individual  members  thereof. 


Much  valuable  information  about  case  management 
in  long-term  care  programs  is  available  from  several 
sources.  Case  management  has  been  a  component  of 
virtually  all  the  long-term  care  research  and  demon¬ 
stration  projects  that  have  been  conducted  in  the 
United  States  since  the  mid-1970s,  including  the  Na¬ 
tional  Long-Term  Care  Channeling  Demonstration 
project  (25,40,47,55).  Case  management  is  a  central 
component  of  many  State  long-term  care  programs, 
including  State  programs  that  are  funded  in  whole  or 
in  part  through  Medicaid  2176  Home  and  Commu¬ 
nity-based  Waivers  (34,35).  Case  management  is  also  a 
central  component  of  the  Social/Health  Maintenance 
Organization  (S/HMO)  demonstration  program  (3,42). 
All  of  these  programs  allocate  long-term  care  services 
and/or  funding  for  such  services.  Research  findings 
and  practical  knowledge  derived  from  these  programs 
are  relevant  to  many  of  the  difficult  issues  that  must 
be  resolved  in  designing  the  case  management  compo¬ 
nent  of  a  national  long-term  care  program.  For  the 
purpose  of  designing  that  component  of  the  program, 
the  research  findings  and  practical  knowledge  de¬ 
rived  from  these  programs  are  probably  more  helpful 
than  theoretical  discussions  about  case  management  or 
information  about  the  role  and  operation  of  case  man¬ 
agement  in  other  programs  that  do  not  allocate  long¬ 
term  care  services  or  funding  for  services.  It  is  likely 
that  some  of  the  case  management  policies  and  pro¬ 
cedures  developed  by  the  former  programs  could  be 
adopted  directly  by  a  national  long-term  care 
program. 


WHAT  IS  CASE  MANAGEMENT 

As  noted  above,  case  management  means  different 
things  to  different  people.  In  the  context  of  long-term 
care  for  elderly  and  disabled  people,  OTA  defines 
case  management  as  a  process  that  includes  five  func¬ 
tions  (67): 

•  assessing  a  client’s  needs, 

•  developing  a  plan  of  care  for  the  client, 

•  arranging  and  coordinating  the  needed  services, 


149 


•  monitoring  and  evaluating  the  services  the  client 
receives,  and 

•  reassessing  the  client’s  situation  as  the  need  arises. 

Most  commentators  agree  that  case  management 
in  long-term  care  includes  these  five  functions 
(6,13,18,24,25,31,36,39,43,51,52,61,63,71,72),  but  there 
are  still  many  unresolved  definitional  issues  with  re¬ 
spect  to  case  management.  First,  some  commentators 
include  other  functions — notably,  case  finding,  screen¬ 
ing,  client  education,  and  counseling — in  their 
definitions  of  case  management.  Second,  the  imple¬ 
mentation  of  each  of  the  case  management  functions 
varies,  depending  on  factors  such  as  the  type  of  the 
agency  that  provides  it,  the  objectives  and  other  func¬ 
tions  of  that  agency,  whether  the  agency  provides 
services  in  addition  to  case  management,  the  goals, 
educational  background,  experience,  and  training  of 
the  case  manager,  and  the  number  of  clients  the  case 
manager  has.  The  same  factors  also  influence  the  rela¬ 
tive  amount  of  emphasis  the  case  manager  and  the 
agency  place  on  each  of  the  case  management 
functions. 1 

Many  conceptual  distinctions  have  been  proposed 
to  categorize  the  differences  in  the  role  and  practice 
of  case  management  in  different  agencies  and  settings 
(see,  for  example,  Austin,  et  al.,  1985  (16);  Capitman, 
et  al.,  1986  (25);  Kane,  et  al,  1989  (39);  and  Weil,  1985 
(71).  Two  conceptual  distinctions  are  particularly  im¬ 
portant  in  thinking  about  the  case  management  com¬ 
ponent  of  a  national  long-term  care  program.  The  first 
of  these  is  a  conceptual  distinction  between  case  man¬ 
agement  as  an  administrative  process  and  case  manage¬ 
ment  as  a  clinical  or  helping  process.  In  many  agencies 
that  allocate  long-term  care  services  or  funding  for 
long-term  care  services,  case  managers  perform  cer¬ 
tain  tasks  that  are  essential  for  the  administration  of 
those  benefits  in  accordance  with  agency  or  program 
regulations.  These  administrative  tasks  include  deter¬ 
mining  people’s  eligibility  for  the  benefits,  authorizing 
the  benefits,  and  monitoring  and  accounting  for  their 
use.  When  case  managers  are  responsible  for  these 
administrative  tasks,  the  case  management  functions 
mentioned  earlier  are  modified  to  include  the  tasks. 
For  example,  the  function  of  arranging  and  coordi¬ 
nating  services  is  modified  to  include  administrative 
procedures  for  authorizing  services  and  funding  for 
services.  The  functions  of  monitoring  the  services  and 
of  reevaluating  the  client’s  needs  are  modified  to  in¬ 
clude  procedures  to  account  for  the  services  and 


1  In  this  paper,  the  term  “case  manager”  is  used  to  refer  to  an  individual 
who  performs  the  case  management  functions  listed  above.  As  is  true  of  case 
management,  however,  the  term  “case  manager”  means  different  things  to 
different  people,  and  in  reality,  some  individuals  who  perform  these  case 
management  functions  are  not  called  “case  managers”  and  other  individuals 
who  are  called  “case  managers”  do  not  perform  the  functions. 


funds  that  are  used  and  to  recertify  the  client’s  eligi¬ 
bility  for  services. 

In  some  agencies  that  allocate  long-term  care  serv¬ 
ices  and  funding  for  services,  case  management  is 
primarily  a  series  of  administrative  tasks  intended  to 
allocate  benefits  in  accordance  with  agency  or  pro¬ 
gram  regulations.  In  other  agencies,  case  management 
is  primarily  a  clinical  or  helping  process  in  which  the 
case  manager  functions  more  as  a  professional  helper, 
counselor,  and  client  advocate  than  as  an  administra¬ 
tor  of  benefits.  Clinical  case  management  responds  to 
a  variety  of  difficult  problems  that  confront  people 
who  need  long-term  care.  One  of  those  problems  is 
that  the  long-term  care  service  environment  is  ex¬ 
tremely  complex  and  fragmented  in  many  communi¬ 
ties,  so  that  some  people  who  need  long-term  care 
require  assistance  to  locate  and  arrange  services.  A 
second  problem  is  that  some  people  who  need  long¬ 
term  care  have  multiple  service  needs,  so  that  they 
may  require  assistance  in  coordinating  the  services  of 
several  different  providers.  Lastly,  some  people  who 
need  long-term  care  require  assistance  in  defining  the 
problems  they  are  facing,  determining  what  kind  of 
services  might  be  helpful,  and  mobilizing  informal 
(unpaid)  sources  of  help  (relatives,  neighbors,  friends, 
church  groups,  etc.).  As  professional  helpers,  coun¬ 
selors,  and  client  advocates,  case  managers  provide  all 
these  kinds  of  assistance. 

If  it  were  possible  to  make  a  clear  distinction  in  re¬ 
ality  between  case  management  as  an  administrative 
process  and  case  management  as  a  clinical  or  helping 
process  and  call  one  case  management  and  the  other 
something  else,  it  would  be  easier  for  everyone  to 
understand  and  communicate  clearly  about  case  man¬ 
agement  and  its  role  and  operation  in  a  national  long¬ 
term  care  program.  That  distinction  cannot  be  applied 
precisely  in  reality,  however.  As  practiced  in  many 
agencies,  case  management  includes  both  administra¬ 
tive  and  clinical  tasks,  and  many  case  managers  who 
administer  long-term  care  benefits  for  their  agencies 
perceive  themselves  as  professional  helpers,  coun¬ 
selors,  and  advocates.2  Moreover,  OTA  is  not  aware 
of  any  research  that  shows  that  as  a  group  these  case 
managers  perform  the  clinical  case  management  tasks 
differently  than  case  managers  who  do  not  administer 
benefits. 


2  In  a  study  by  the  University  of  Washington,  127  case  managers  in  agen¬ 
cies  that  allocate  services  and  funding  for  services  in  Oregon  and  Washington 
State  were  asked  to  rate  the  importance  of  1 1  possible  goals  of  case  manage¬ 
ment  (15).  All  these  case  managers’  jobs  involved  administrative  tasks  related 
to  allocating  services  and  funding  for  services,  but  the  goals  they  identified  as 
most  important  had  to  do  with  helping  and  advocacy.  In  the  view  of  these 
case  managers,  at  least,  the  administrative  and  clinical  aspects  of  case  man¬ 
agement  are  intertwined. 


150 


Even  though  the  conceptual  distinction  between 
case  management  as  an  administrative  process  and 
case  management  as  a  clinical  or  helping  process 
cannot  be  applied  precisely  in  reality,  it  is  useful  in 
thinking  about  the  role  and  operation  of  case  manage¬ 
ment  in  a  long-term  care  program  because  it  underlies 
one  of  the  primary  areas  of  disagreement  about  case 
management  in  such  program.  It  is  in  the  context  of 
performing  administrative  tasks  related  to  the  alloca¬ 
tion  of  program  benefits  that  case  managers  become 
the  “gatekeepers”  in  a  long-term  care  program,  and  it 
is  in  that  context  that  they  are  likely  to  be  perceived 
as  restricting  clients’  access  to  needed  services.  Some 
people  argue  that  case  management  as  an  administra¬ 
tive  “gatekeeping”  process  is  not  compatible  with 
case  management  as  a  clinical  or  helping  process  and 
that  the  “gatekeeping”  and  clinical  case  management 
tasks  should  be  performed  by  different  agencies  or 
different  units  of  the  same  agency.  Other  people  argue 
that  the  two  types  of  tasks  can  be  effectively  per¬ 
formed  by  the  same  agency  or  unit.  This  issue  is  dis¬ 
cussed  further  in  a  later  section  of  this  paper.  OTA’s 
perception  is  that  both  the  administrative  and  clinical 
tasks  are  performed  by  the  same  case  manager  in  most 
long-term  care  programs  that  allocate  services  or 
funding  for  services — at  least  after  an  initial  determi¬ 
nation  has  been  made  that  an  individual  is  eligible  for 
the  program. 

The  second  important  conceptual  distinction  in 
thinking  about  the  case  management  component  of  a 
national  long-term  care  program  is  the  distinction  be¬ 
tween  a  case  management  process  that  is  “ service-cen¬ 
tered ”  vs.  one  that  is  “comprehensive.  ”  Service-centered 
case  management  is  case  management  that  is  provided 
in  conjunction  with  the  provision  of  a  particular  serv¬ 
ice  (e.g.,  homemaker  or  home  health  aide  services). 
Comprehensive  case  management  takes  place  independ¬ 
ent  of  the  provision  of  any  particular  service  (46). 

The  distinction  between  service-centered  and  com¬ 
prehensive  case  management  is  important  because  it 
underlies  two  other  areas  of  disagreement  about  case 
management  in  a  long-term  care  program.  Many 
agencies  and  individuals  that  provide  services  also 
“case  manage”  their  clients.  One  area  of  disagreement 
is  whether  a  long-term  care  program  should  provide 
case  management  for  people  who  are  receiving  case 
management  from  a  service  provider  in  conjunction 
with  a  particular  service  (i.e.  service-centered  case 
management).  The  more  widely  debated  issue  is 
whether  service  providers  should  be  the  case  man¬ 
agers  for  a  long-term  care  program.  Both  issues  are 
discussed  later  in  this  paper. 

Some  commentators  make  a  distinction  between 
case  management  and  “care  management,”  “care  co¬ 


ordination,”  “service  coordination,”  or  similar  terms. 
Although  these  distinctions  may  be  meaningful  within 
the  conceptual  framework  developed  by  a  given  com¬ 
mentator,  the  terms  are  not  used  in  a  consistent  way 
by  different  commentators.  Thus,  the  use  of  these 
terms  does  not  facilitate  clear  communication  about 
case  management,  and  OTA  does  not  consider  the 
terms  helpful  in  thinking  about  the  case  management 
component  of  a  long-term  care  program. 

Should  Case  Managers  Determine  the 
Amount  and  Kind  of  Services 
People  Receive  Through  a  National 
Long-Term  Care  Program? 

Case  managers  determine  the  amount  and  kind  of 
services  people  receive  in  virtually  all  existing  long¬ 
term  care  programs  that  allocate  services  or  funding 
for  services.  In  many  of  these  programs,  there  are  at 
least  two  steps  that  take  place  before  the  amount  and 
kind  of  services  a  person  will  receive  are  determined. 
First,  the  person’s  eligibility  for  the  program  is  deter¬ 
mined.  Eligibility  is  usually  determined  on  the  basis  of 
only  a  few  factors  and  may  or  may  not  be  determined 
by  a  case  manager.3  Once  the  person  is  found  to  be 
eligible  for  the  program,  he  or  she  usually  receives  an 
assessment  by  a  case  manager.  Based  on  the  results  of 
the  assessment,  the  case  manager  then  develops  a  plan 
of  care  which  includes  a  determination  of  the  amount 
and  type  of  services  that  will  be  authorized  for  the 
person.  The  assessment  usually  addresses  many  more 
factors  than  are  considered  in  the  eligibility  determi¬ 
nation.  Factors  such  as  the  person’s  mental,  and  emo¬ 
tional  status,  the  person’s  living  arrangements  and 
physical  and  social  environment,  and  the  availability 
of  help  from  informal  (unpaid)  caregivers  are  fre¬ 
quently  included  in  the  assessment.  All  of  these  fac¬ 
tors  are  relevant  to  determining  the  amount  and  kind 
of  services  a  person  needs  but  not  necessarily  relevant 
to  determining  eligibility  for  the  program. 

In  many  long-term  care  programs,  the  assessment  is 
based  on  a  formal  assessment  instrument — i.e.  an  inter¬ 
view  schedule  that  addresses  all  or  many  of  the  fac¬ 
tors  just  noted.  If  there  were  an  assessment  instrument 
that  could  accurately  determine  the  amount  and  kind 
of  services  a  person  needs  without  requiring  the  judg¬ 
ment  of  a  case  manager,  that  instrument  could  be  used 
to  determine  what  services  the  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  should  provide  for  the  person.  Sometimes  de¬ 
scriptions  of  client  assessment  and  care  planning  in 


3  Existing  long-term  care  programs  generally  base  eligibility  for  program 
benefits  on  categorical  criteria  (age,  disability,  etc.),  medical  and  functional 
status,  financial  need,  and/or  the  person’s  need  for  nursing  home  care,  as  de¬ 
fined  by  the  State’s  Medicaid  program  regulations. 


151 


long-term  care  programs  sound  as  if  there  are  such  in¬ 
struments  and  as  if  the  determination  of  the  amount 
and  kinds  of  services  authorized  for  clients  of  the  pro¬ 
gram  comes  directly  from  the  assessment  instrument. 
At  present,  however,  there  is  no  assessment  instru¬ 
ment  that  has  been  shown  to  identify  the  amount  or 
kind  of  services  that  people  need.  In  fact,  research  in¬ 
dicates  that  even  in  long-term  care  programs  in  which 
there  are  standardized  assessment  procedures  that  in¬ 
clude  the  use  of  an  assessment  instrument  and  the  case 
managers  are  trained  to  follow  the  procedures  pre¬ 
cisely,  clients  who  are  the  same  in  terms  of  the  factors 
addressed  by  the  assessment  are  perceived  by  dif¬ 
ferent  case  managers  as  having  different  needs,  and 
the  amount  and  kind  of  services  authorized  for  them 
by  different  case  managers  vary  (1,25,58). 

Some  efforts  are  underway  to  standardize  care 
planning,  so  that  the  same  amount  and  kind  of  serv¬ 
ices  will  be  authorized  by  case  managers  for  people 
whose  assessments  are  the  same  (1,58).  These  efforts 
are  not  complete,  however,  and  it  is  not  clear  how 
soon  such  a  “case-mix”  approach  to  long-term  care 
planning  might  be  ready  for  use  in  a  national  long¬ 
term  care  program.  Nor  is  it  clear  that  determinations 
of  the  amount  and  kinds  of  services  to  be  authorized 
for  clients  of  a  long-term  care  program  should  rely 
solely  on  an  assessment  instrument  without  requiring 
the  judgment  of  a  case  manager.  It  is  clear,  as  men¬ 
tioned  earlier,  that  there  is  currently  no  assessment  in¬ 
strument  that  has  been  shown  to  identify  the  amount 
or  kind  of  long-term  care  services  that  people  need. 

Aside  from  having  a  case  manager  determine  the 
amount  and  kind  of  services  to  be  authorized  for  cli¬ 
ents  of  a  long-term  care  program,  the  only  other 
alternative  would  be  to  allow  people  who  are  eligible 
for  the  program  to  decide  what  services  they  need 
(with  or  without  the  advice  of  a  physician,  other 
health  care  or  social  service  professional,  or  anyone 
else)  and  then  to  set  up  a  procedure  by  which  the 
program  would  review  and  authorize  or  decline  to 
authorize  reimbursement  for  the  services  retrospec¬ 
tively.  If  this  approach  were  implemented,  people 
who  were  eligible  for  the  program  would  use  long¬ 
term  care  services  and  then  they  or  the  service  pro¬ 
vider  would  submit  a  claim  for  reimbursement,  in 
much  the  same  way  that  claims  are  submitted  for 
Medicare  reimbursement  for  home  health  care  serv¬ 
ices.  OTA  is  not  aware  of  any  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  that  operates  in  this  way. 

The  main  points  here  are:  1)  that  the  determination 
of  the  amount  and  kind  of  services  to  be  authorized 
for  a  person  through  a  long-term  care  program  is  dif¬ 
ferent  from  the  determination  that  the  person  meets 
the  eligibility  requirements  for  the  program,  and  2) 


that  there  appears  to  be  no  viable  alternative  to 
having  a  case  manager  determine  the  amount  and 
kind  of  services  to  be  authorized  for  people  through  a 
national  long-term  care  program.4  These  points  raise 
certain  problems  for  such  a  program.  The  first  prob¬ 
lem  is  the  predictably  negative  response  of  people 
who  are  found  to  be  eligible  for  the  program  and  then 
discover  that,  in  fact,  a  case  manager  will  determine 
the  amount  and  type  of  services  they  will  be  author¬ 
ized  to  receive  through  the  program.  This  problem  is 
likely  to  be  particularly  acute  if  the  long-term  care 
program  is  an  entitlement  program. 

Another  problem  is  that  the  administrative 
“gatekeeping”  tasks  in  case  management  clearly  arise 
in  the  context  of  assessment  and  care  planning,  not 
just  eligibility  determination.  Therefore,  if  policy 
makers  want  to  separate  the  administrative  “gate- 
keeping”  tasks  from  the  clinical  tasks  in  the  case  man¬ 
agement  component  of  the  long-term  care  program  in 
order  to  address  the  alleged  incompatibility  of  the 
two  types  of  tasks,  it  will  be  necessary  to  place  the 
responsibility  for  assessment  and  care  planning  in  one 
agency  or  unit  of  an  agency  and  the  responsibility  for 
the  clinical  case  management  tasks  in  another  agency 
or  another  unit  of  the  same  agency. 

Some  recent  proposals  for  a  national  long-term  care 
program  place  the  responsibility  for  determining  eligi¬ 
bility  in  one  agency  or  one  unit  of  an  agency  and  the 
responsibility  for  assessment,  care  planning,  and  other 
case  management  functions  in  another  agency  or  an¬ 
other  unit  of  the  same  agency.  The  rationale  that  is 
sometimes  given  for  this  approach  is  to  separate  the 
“gatekeeping”  and  clinical  case  management  tasks. 
Clearly,  this  rationale  is  based  on  a  misunderstanding 
of  the  process  by  which  decisions  are  made  about  the 
amount  and  kind  of  services  that  will  be  authorized 
through  the  program. 

Another  possible  approach  is  to  place  the  responsi¬ 
bility  for  eligibility  determination,  assessment,  and 
care  planning  in  one  agency  or  one  unit  of  an  agency 
and  the  responsibility  for  clinical  case  management 
tasks  in  another  agency  or  unit.  Since  people’s  service 
needs  change  over  time,  assessment  and  care  planning 
must  be  ongoing.  If  this  second  approach  were  imple¬ 
mented,  each  client  would  have  to  have  two  case 
managers,  one  to  administer  the  program  benefits  and 
one  to  perform  clinical  case  management  tasks.  Al¬ 
though  this  approach  might  create  an  adversarial  rela¬ 
tionship  between  the  two  case  managers,  some  people 

4  Although  there  appears  to  be  no  viable  alternative  to  having  a  case  man¬ 
ager  determine  the  amount  and  kind  of  services  to  be  authorized  for  people 
through  a  long-term  care  program,  many  structural  and  operational  aspects 
of  the  program  will  affect  how  the  case  manager  performs  this  function. 
Some  of  these  structural  and  operational  aspects  are  discussed  later  in  this 
paper. 


152 


believe  that  it  is  the  only  way  to  guarantee  that  cli¬ 
ents  of  a  long-term  care  system  have  an  advocate  in 
the  program.  The  approach  would  be  likely  to  be  du¬ 
plicative  and  therefore  expensive. 

A  third  possible  approach  is  to  have  the  original 
determination  of  eligibility,  the  initial  assessment,  and 
the  initial  care  plan  done  by  one  agency  or  unit  of  an 
agency  and  then  to  have  ongoing  case  management 
provided  by  another  agency  or  unit  of  an  agency. 
This  approach  does  not  effectively  separate  the  “gate¬ 
keeper”  and  clinical  case  management  tasks,  because 
the  ongoing  case  management  would  still  include  both 
“gatekeeper”  tasks  (i.e.,  reassessments  and  redeter¬ 
minations  of  the  amount  and  kind  of  services  to  be  au¬ 
thorized  for  a  client)  and  clinical  case  management 
tasks. 

The  fourth  possible  approach,  and  the  one  that  is  in 
effect  in  most  existing  programs  that  allocate  long¬ 
term  care  services  and/or  funding  for  services,  is  to 
assign  responsibility  for  both  ongoing  administrative 
case  management  tasks  and  clinical  case  management 
tasks  to  the  same  agency  and  case  manager.  This  is 
the  approach  that  raises  concerns  about  the  incom¬ 
patibility  of  administrative  “gatekeeping”  tasks  and 
clinical  tasks.  If  this  approach  were  adopted  for  a  na¬ 
tional  long-term  care  program,  safeguards  would  have 
to  be  built  into  the  program  to  try  to  ensure  that  case 
managers’  determinations  of  the  amount  and  kind  of 
services  to  be  authorized  for  clients  would  be  fair  and 
that  case  managers  would  perform  clinical  tasks  for 
their  clients  to  the  greatest  extent  possible.  Such  safe¬ 
guards  could  include  training  for  case  managers  about 
how  to  balance  the  conflicting  demands  of  the  “gate¬ 
keeper”  and  clinical/advocacy  roles,  the  provision  of 
forums  for  consultation  and  supervision  for  case  man¬ 
agers  who  confront  difficult  decisions  about  the 
amount  and  kind  of  services  to  be  authorized  for  a 
client,  and  an  effective  appeals  process.  Some  people 
would  argue  that  these  safeguards  are  not  adequate  to 
ensure  that  people  have  an  advocate  in  the  program. 

Each  of  the  4  approaches  discussed  above  has 
drawbacks.  The  important  point  is  that  there  is  no 
simple  way  to  separate  the  “gatekeeping”  and  clinical 
case  management  tasks  and  that  placing  the  responsi¬ 
bility  for  these  tasks  in  different  agencies  or  different 
units  of  the  same  agency  may  create  more  problems 
than  it  solves  with  respect  to  balancing  the  adminis¬ 
trative  “gatekeeping”  tasks  and  the  clinical  tasks  of 
case  management.5 

*  A  different  reason  for  placing  various  case  management  functions  in 
more  than  one  agency  is  to  create  an  oversight  mechanism  by  which  one 
agency  would  review  decisions  about  services  made  by  the  other  agency 
Policy  makers  might  decide  that  such  an  oversight  mechanism  is  necessary  if, 
for  example,  the  Federal  government  were  paying  for  long-term  care  services 
that  were  being  authorized  by  State-administered  agencies,  and  the  Federal 


Who  Should  Receive  Case  Management  in  a 
Long-Term  Care  Program? 

As  discussed  in  the  previous  section,  decisions 
about  the  amount  and  kind  of  services  people  receive 
through  a  long-term  care  program  probably  must  be 
made  by  case  managers.  Thus  everyone  who  receives 
services  through  the  program  must  receive  case  man¬ 
agement  in  the  sense  of  the  administrative  tasks  that 
are  essential  to  allocate  services  and  funding  for  serv¬ 
ices  in  accordance  with  program  regulations. 

Whether  everyone  who  receives  services  through 
the  program  should  receive  case  management  beyond 
those  essential  administrative  tasks  is  another  question. 
As  discussed  earlier,  at  least  some  people  who  need 
long-term  care  services  also  require  assistance  with 
defining  their  service  needs,  locating  and  arranging 
services,  and  coordinating  the  services  of  multiple 
providers.  Anecdotal  evidence  suggests  that  many 
people  who  need  long-term  care  require  these  kinds 
of  assistance. 

The  findings  of  an  exploratory  study  conducted  for 
OTA  in  Pennsylvania  and  of  market  surveys  con¬ 
ducted  for  the  Robert  Wood  Johnson  Foundation’s 
Supportive  Services  Program  for  Older  Persons  indi¬ 
cate,  however,  that  some  people  do  not  want  case 
management.  The  study  conducted  for  OTA  involved 
interviews  with  46  family  caregivers  of  people  with 
dementia  (73).  Some  of  the  caregivers  did  not  want 
and  did  not  think  they  needed  case  management.  One- 
fourth  of  the  caregivers  said  they  would  rather  ar¬ 
range  services  themselves  than  have  a  case  manager 
act  as  an  intermediary.  The  caregivers’  major  concern 
about  case  management  was  control:  they  wanted  to 
retain  control  over  the  kinds  of  services  to  be  pro¬ 
vided  for  their  relative  with  dementia  and  over  who 
would  provide  the  services. 

The  findings  of  market  surveys  conducted  for  the 
Robert  Wood  Johnson  Foundation’s  Supportive  Serv¬ 
ices  Program  for  Older  Persons  also  suggest  that 
many  older  people  and  their  families  do  not  want  case 
management  and  that  they  do  not  understand  why 
they  might  need  it  (33).  Older  people  and  their  fami¬ 
lies  who  responded  to  the  market  surveys  indicated 
that  they  did  not  see  themselves  as  “cases”  to  be  man¬ 
aged  and  that  they  did  not  understand  why  they 
would  need  a  special  person  or  a  special  set  of  func¬ 
tions  in  order  to  obtain  services.  Many  of  them  ex¬ 
pressed  confidence  in  their  ability  to  define  their  own 


government  wanted  to  review  the  service  allocation  decisions  made  by  the 
State-administered  agencies.  Creating  such  an  oversight  mechanism  would 
not  necessarily  resolve  concerns  about  the  incompatibility  of  “gatekeeping” 
and  advocacy-related  tasks  in  case  management,  however.  In  fact,  these  con¬ 
cerns  would  be  relevant  to  decisions  made  by  both  agencies. 


153 


service  needs  and  did  not  think  they  would  need  a 
case  manager  to  help  with  that  (21).  Ninety-five 
percent  of  the  older  people  and  86  percent  of 
the  caregivers  said  they  had  no  need  for  care 
planning  (23). 

These  findings  do  not  prove  that  the  people  who 
were  interviewed  do  not  need  case  management  or 
would  not  need  it  at  some  time  in  the  future.  The 
findings  only  suggest  that  some  people  do  not  want 
case  management.  Policy  makers  could  conclude  that 
a  case  management  process  which  is  uniform  for 
everyone  is,  in  effect,  the  price  of  receiving  services 
through  a  national  long-term  care  program,  and  they 
might  assume  that  people  will  be  willing  to  accept 
case  management  to  get  the  services — probably  a  rea¬ 
sonable  assumption  in  general.  On  the  other  hand, 
case  management  is  an  expensive  addition  to  the  cost 
of  long-term  care  services.6  Policy  makers  might 
prefer  to  limit  the  case  management  that  is  required 
for  everyone  who  receives  services  through  a  national 
long-term  care  program  to  only  those  administrative 
tasks  that  are  essential  to  allocate  services  in  accord¬ 
ance  with  program  regulations.  Case  management 
beyond  those  administrative  tasks  might  be  provided 
only  for  people  who  are  identified  as  needing  it  by 
some  specified  criteria. 

Many  commentators  have  noted  that  families  of 
frail  older  people  frequently  perform  case  man¬ 
agement  tasks,  acting  as  intermediaries  between  the 
older  person  and  paid  service  providers 
(20,22,24,44,45,59,64).  Some  commentators  have  sug¬ 
gested  that  maximizing  families’  performance  of  case 
management  tasks  might  increase  the  family’s  satisfac¬ 
tion  with  services,  meet  patients’  needs  more  appro¬ 
priately,  minimize  costs,  and  eventually  decrease  the 
need  for  a  paid  case  manager  (31,59,60,62).  Few  at¬ 
tempts  have  been  made  to  help  families  become  better 
case  managers  (27)  but  one  project  that  did  train  and 
assist  some  families  of  elderly  people  to  perform  case 
management  tasks  found  that  the  families  who  re¬ 
ceived  the  training  and  assistance  accomplished  sig¬ 
nificantly  more  case  management  tasks  than  did  a 
control  group  of  families  that  did  not  receive  the 
training  and  assistance.  Additionally,  the  total  dura¬ 
tion  of  services  was  significantly  shorter  for  the  older 
people  whose  families  received  the  training  and  as¬ 
sistance  than  for  older  people  whose  families  did 
not  (59). 


6  Capitman,  et  al.  (1986)  reported  average  case  management  costs  ranging 
from  $47  to  $134  per  client  per  month  for  5  long-term  care  demonstration 
programs  (25).  The  average  cost  of  case  management  for  the  National  Long- 
Term  Care  Channeling  Demonstration  was  $85  per  client  per  month  (46). 
Kane  et  al.  (1989)  reported  case  management  costs  ranging  from  $96  to  $123 
per  client  per  month  in  44  long-term  care  programs,  including  both  oper¬ 
ational  and  demonstration  programs  (39). 


A  national  long-term  care  program  could  attempt 
to  maximize  families’  performance  of  case  manage¬ 
ment  tasks.  Doing  so  would  alleviate  the  concerns  of 
some  families  that  the  case  manager  will  take  over 
control  of  their  relative’s  care.  Families  differ,  of 
course,  and  whether  a  specific  family  is  able  to  per¬ 
form  case  management  tasks  depends  on  the  charac¬ 
teristics  of  the  family  and  the  caregiving  situation. 
Determining  which  families  could  successfully  per¬ 
form  case  management  tasks  (with  or  without  training 
and  assistance)  would  require  difficult  judgments  by 
case  managers  in  at  least  some  instances.  To  make 
these  judgments  and  to  help  families  become  better 
case  managers  would  require  special  skills  on  the  part 
of  the  case  managers. 

Some  individuals  who  need  long-term  care  services 
also  may  be  able  to  function  as  their  own  case  man¬ 
ager.  OTA’s  work  with  respect  to  long-term  care 
services  and  service  delivery  mechanisms  has  focused 
primarily  on  people  with  dementia,  the  great  majority 
of  whom  are  not  able  to  function  as  their  own  case 
manager,  that  is,  they  cannot  define  their  service 
needs,  locate  or  arrange  services  themselves,  or  moni¬ 
tor  or  evaluate  the  services,  etc.  (67).  Some  elderly 
people  and  disabled  people  who  need  long-term  care 
and  do  not  have  dementia  may  be  able  to  perform 
some  or  all  of  these  tasks  themselves. 

If  the  objectives  of  a  national  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  were  to  include  maximizing  families’  and  indi¬ 
viduals’  performance  of  case  management  tasks 
(except  for  the  administrative  tasks  involved  in  allo¬ 
cating  services  in  accordance  with  program  regula¬ 
tions),  several  requirements  would  have  to  be  met. 
First,  there  would  have  to  be  a  clear  mandate  that 
this  was  an  objective  of  the  program.  Second,  there 
would  have  to  be  guidelines  for  implementing  the  ob¬ 
jective,  and  third,  there  would  have  to  be  training  for 
case  managers  to  help  them  achieve  the  objective. 

A  final  issue  related  to  the  question  of  who  should 
receive  case  management  in  a  national  long-term  care 
program  is  whether  the  program  should  provide  case 
management  for  people  who  are  not  eligible  for  the 
services  (nursing  home  care,  in-home  services,  adult 
day  care,  etc.)  provided  by  the  program.  Recent  pro¬ 
posals  for  a  national  long-term  care  program  would 
provide  case  management  only  for  people  who  meet 
the  eligibility  requirements  for  the  program  (i.e.,  2  or 
3  ADLs,  or  a  combination  of  ADLs,  IADLs,  and 
cognitive  impairment).  Some  State  long-term  care 
programs  that  are  means-tested  provide  case  manage¬ 
ment  for  people  who  do  not  meet  the  financial  eligi¬ 
bility  criteria  for  the  programs  (35),  and  several  States 
provide  case  management  for  some  people  with  de¬ 
mentia  who  do  not  meet  the  functional  eligibility  re- 


154 


quirements  for  the  States’  long-term  care  program 
(67).  OTA’s  study  of  methods  of  linking  people  with 
dementia  to  appropriate  services  indicates  that  some 
people  with  dementia  who  do  not  meet  the  proposed 
eligibility  criteria  for  a  national  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  nevertheless  need  case  management  (67).  The 
same  is  undoubtedly  true  for  some  elderly  and  dis¬ 
abled  people  who  do  not  have  dementia. 

If  a  national  long-term  care  program  provided  case 
management  for  certain  people  who  were  not  eligible 
for  services  through  the  program,  it  would  increase 
the  cost  of  the  program.  On  the  other  hand,  providing 
case  management  for  those  people  would  help  to  con¬ 
nect  them  to  appropriate  services  and  perhaps  would 
make  the  national  program  more  acceptable  to  in¬ 
dividuals  who  need  long-term  care  services  but  are 
not  impaired  enough  to  receive  services  through  the 
program. 

What  Agencies  Should  Provide  Case 
Management  in  a  National 
Long-Term  Care  Program? 

In  its  study  of  methods  of  linking  people  with  de¬ 
mentia  to  services  (67),  OTA  analyzed  many  agencies’ 
current  and  potential  capacity  to  provide  case  man¬ 
agement  and  three  other  linking  functions — public 
education,  information  and  referral  and  outreach — for 
people  with  dementia.  OTA  analyzed  some  State 
programs  that  provide  case  management  for  elderly 
and/or  disabled  people,  as  well  as  11  categories  of 
agencies  that  could  conceivably  be  designated  from 
the  Federal  level  to  provide  case  management  for 
people  with  dementia.7  Although  the  focus  of  the 
OTA  report  is  not  the  allocation  of  long-term  care 
services  or  funding  for  services,  the  following  findings 
of  the  OTA  study  may  be  helpful  in  thinking  about 
what  agencies  should  be  designated  to  provide  case 
management  for  a  national  long-term  care  program. 

•  Case  management  differs  greatly  from  one 
agency  to  another  and  from  one  category  of 
agencies  to  another.  Even  in  agencies  that 
purport  to  provide  the  five  case  management 
functions  listed  earlier  in  this  paper,  the  case 
management  that  is  provided  varies  greatly. 
Therefore,  the  fact  that  an  agency  or  a  category 
of  agencies  provides  “case  management”  is  not 

7  The  1 1  categories  of  agencies  included  in  OTA  s  analysis  of  agencies  that 
could  be  designated  from  the  Federal  level  to  provide  case  management  and 
other  linking  functions  for  people  with  dementia  are:  area  agencies  on  aging, 
community  mental  health  centers,  community  health  centers,  Alzheimer  s 
Association  chapters,  replications  of  Family  Survival  Project,  regional  Alz¬ 
heimer's  diagnostic  and  assessment  centers,  hospital -based  geriatric  assess¬ 
ment  programs,  home  health  agencies,  health  maintenance  organizations 
(HMOs)  and  SHMOs,  replications  of  On  Lok,  and  adult  day  centers. 


an  indication  that  the  agency  or  category  of 
agencies  is  capable  of  providing  the  case  manage¬ 
ment  that  will  be  needed  in  a  national  long-term 
care  program. 

•  A  very  large  number  of  agencies  and  categories 
of  agencies  provide  or  perceive  themselves  as 
providing  case  management  for  people  who  need 
long-term  care.  There  are  intense  turf  issues 
among  these  agencies  that  emerge  whenever  a 
suggestion  is  made  that  one  agency  or  one  cate¬ 
gory  of  agencies  should  be  the  case  manager. 
These  turf  issues  reflect  the  agencies’  perception 
that  the  agency  that  is  designated  as  the  case 
manager  will  control  what  services  are  used  and 
who  gets  paid  for  providing  them. 

•  Some  States  have  developed  consolidated  long¬ 
term  care  service  programs  in  which  case  man¬ 
agement  is  a  central  component.  These  States 
have  designated  a  single  agency  in  each  locality 
as  the  case  management  agency.  In  some  of  the 
States,  the  agency  designated  to  provide  case 
management  at  the  local  level  has  been  changed 
one  or  more  times  after  the  State  program  was 
instituted.  In  designating  local  case  management 
agencies,  the  States  have  confronted  intense  turf 
issues,  and  resolving  the  turf  issues  has  required 
time  and,  in  some  cases,  certain  concessions  to 
agencies  or  categories  of  agencies  that  were  not 
selected  as  the  case  management  agency. 

•  Even  in  States  that  have  not  developed  consoli¬ 
dated  long-term  care  service  programs,  there  are 
State  and  local  government  agencies  and  private 
agencies  that  provide  case  management  for  State 
programs.  These  agencies  vary  greatly  from  one 
State  to  another. 

Some  conclusions  that  can  be  drawn  from  these 
findings  are  that  a  policy  decision  about  which  agen¬ 
cies  will  provide  case  management  for  a  national 
long-term  care  program  will  engender  intense  turf 
issues;  that  the  agencies  that  are  best-qualified  to  pro¬ 
vide  case  management  for  a  national  long-term  care 
program  differ  from  one  State  to  another;  and  that 
designating  a  single  category  of  agencies  to  provide 
case  management  nationwide  would  require  States  to 
change  their  current  case  management  programs  and 
would  confound  the  ongoing  efforts  of  some  States  to 
develop  and  maintain  consolidated  long-term  care 
programs.  All  of  these  conclusions  point  to  the 
wisdom  of  allowing  each  State  to  designate  the  agen¬ 
cies  that  will  provide  case  management  for  the  na¬ 
tional  long-term  care  program  as  it  is  implemented  in 
that  State. 

One  of  the  most  controversial  issues  with  respect  to 
determining  which  agencies  should  provide  case  man- 


155 


28-861  -  90  -  6  :  QL  3 


agement  for  a  national  long-term  care  program  is 
whether  agencies  that  provide  services  other  than 
case  management  (home  health  care,  senior  services, 
etc.)  should  be  excluded  from  consideration.  This 
issue  is  more  complex  than  one  might  assume  from 
the  policy  debate  at  the  Federal  level,  which  gener¬ 
ally  concludes  that  agencies  that  provide  services 
should  be  excluded  from  consideration  because  these 
agencies  have  a  financial  incentive  to  refer  clients  to 
their  own  services  rather  than  to  the  services  of  other 
agencies  and  to  authorize  too  many  services  for  cli¬ 
ents.  Only  a  few  of  the  complex  aspects  of  this  issue 
are  noted  here.  A  full  analysis  of  the  issue  is  needed. 

First,  as  noted  earlier,  some  agencies  provide  serv¬ 
ice-centered  case  management  (i.e.,  case  management 
that  is  provided  in  conjunction  with  the  provision  of  a 
particular  service)  and  other  agencies  provide  com¬ 
prehensive  case  management  (i.e.  case  management 
that  takes  place  independent  of  the  provision  of  any 
particular  service).  Clearly,  a  national  long-term  care 
program  would  require  comprehensive  as  opposed  to 
service-centered  case  management.  That  does  not 
mean,  however,  that  agencies  that  provide  services, 
such  as  home  health  care  agencies  and  mental  health 
agencies,  could  not  provide  case  management  for  the 
program.  That  agencies  which  provide  services  can 
also  provide  comprehensive  case  management  is  illus¬ 
trated  by  the  home  health  care  and  mental  health 
agencies  that  provided  comprehensive  case  manage¬ 
ment  for  the  National  Long-Term  Care  Channeling 
Demonstration  (46)  and  by  the  home  health  care, 
mental  health,  and  senior  service  agencies  that  pro¬ 
vide  comprehensive  case  management  for  Illinois’ 
Community  Care  Program  (35). 

The  experience  of  the  National  Long-Term  Care 
Channeling  Demonstration  indicates  that  case  man¬ 
agers  in  agencies  that  provide  services  can  be  effec¬ 
tively  insulated  from  pressures  to  refer  clients  to  their 
own  agencies’  services,  rather  than  to  other  agencies’ 
services  that  may  be  more  appropriate  for  the  client, 
and  pressures  to  over-prescribe  services  (14).  On  the 
other  hand,  in  Illinois,  the  agencies  that  provide  case 
management  for  the  State’s  Community  Care  Pro¬ 
gram  are  prohibited  from  providing  other  services 
through  the  program.  An  analysis  of  practices  in  ex¬ 
isting  programs  that  allocate  long-term  care  services 
or  funding  for  services  with  respect  to  this  issue 
would  be  helpful  in  deciding  whether  agencies  that 
provide  services  should  provide  case  management  for 
a  national  long-term  care  program. 

A  related  question  is  whether  or  to  what  extent  the 
long-term  care  program  should  provide  case  manage¬ 
ment  for  people  who  are  receiving  case  management 
from  another  agency  in  conjunction  with  services 


they  get  from  that  agency.  OTA  has  become  aware 
of  this  question  through  conversations  with  several 
staff  members  of  agencies  in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  where 
the  State  is  implementing  PASSPORT,  a  compre¬ 
hensive  long-term  care  program  that  has  been  in 
effect  in  other  parts  of  the  State  for  several  years. 
PASSPORT’S  case  management  procedures  are 
central  to  the  administration  of  the  program.  On  the 
other  hand,  some  agency  staff  members  in  Cleveland 
believe  that,  in  general,  people  who  are  eligible  for 
PASSPORT  should  receive  case  management  from 
the  agencies  that  provide  services  for  them,  and  that 
providing  case  management  through  PASSPORT 
would  duplicate  the  efforts  of  those  agencies. 

This  is  a  question  that  can  be  expected  to  arise  re¬ 
peatedly  in  the  implementation  of  a  national  long-term 
care  program.  It  is  unclear  how  it  should  be  resolved. 
An  analysis  of  the  ways  in  which  it  is  handled  in  ex¬ 
isting  agencies  that  allocate  long-term  care  services  or 
funding  for  services  is  needed  to  inform  Federal 
policy  decisions  in  this  area. 

Within  The  Agencies  That  Provide 
Case  Management  for  a  National 
Long-Term  Care  Program,  Who  Should 
Be  the  Case  Managers 

Virtually  all  health  care,  social  service,  and  other 
human  service  professionals  and  service  providers 
“manage”  their  clients  in  some  sense.  Nurses  and 
social  workers  are  the  case  managers  in  some  agencies 
that  allocate  long-term  care  services  or  funding  for 
services.  Other  such  agencies  employ  as  case  man¬ 
agers  individuals  with  a  college,  but  not  a  professional 
degree  in  a  human  service  field  (15). 

Differences  of  opinion  about  who  should  be  the 
case  manager  usually  focus  on  social  workers  vs. 
nurses  and  involve  competing  claims  about  the  knowl¬ 
edge  and  skills  that  case  managers  need  and  which 
group  has  that  knowledge  and  those  skills 
(7,9,14,28,30,36,49,53).  Those  differences  of  opinion 
often  reflect  intense  turf  conflicts.  In  many  agencies, 
however,  social  workers  and  nurses  work  together 
constructively  and  comfortably,  learning  from  each 
other  and  relying  on  each  other’s  unique  knowledge 
and  skills.  Many  commentators,  including  some  of 
those  who  have  noted  the  turf  issues  between  social 
workers  and  nurses,  have  concluded  that  both  are 
needed  for  effective  case  management  (7,9,41,56). 
That  seems  to  be  a  wise  conclusion. 

Some  commentators  have  emphasized  that  regard¬ 
less  of  their  education  and  training,  case  managers 


156 


who  work  for  programs  that  allocate  long-term  care 
services  or  funding  for  services  need  training  to 
follow  standardized  assessment  and  care  planning  pro¬ 
cedures  and  to  include  cost  consciousness  in  the  fac¬ 
tors  they  consider  in  authorizing  services  for  clients 
of  the  program  (1,2,9,34,37,39,58).  This  report  has 
suggested  several  other  areas  in  which  special  train¬ 
ing  might  be  needed  for  case  managers — for  exam¬ 
ple,  in  balancing  the  conflicting  demands  of  the 
“gatekeeping”  and  clinical/helping  roles,  in  determin¬ 
ing  which  clients  of  a  long-term  care  program  need 
case  management  beyond  the  administrative  tasks  that 
are  essential  to  allocate  benefits,  and  in  helping  fami¬ 
lies  become  better  case  managers. 


CASE  MANAGEMENT  STANDARDS 

The  American  Nurses’  Association,  the  National 
Association  of  Social  Workers,  the  National  Council 
on  the  Aging,  and  Ohio’s  PASSPORT  program,  and 
perhaps  other  organizations  have  formulated  case 
management  or  “care  management”  standards 
(6,10,51,52).  OTA  has  not  compared  those  standards 
systematically,  but  a  brief  review  indicates  that  they 
are  based  on  similar  views  about  the  role  and  practice 
of  case  management.  Policy  makers  might  consider  in¬ 
corporating  some  of  the  core  features  of  those  stand¬ 
ards  into  a  national  long-term  care  program. 


What  Role  Should  the  Case  Management 
Component  of  a  Long-Term  Care  Program 
Play  With  Respect  to  the  Quality  of 
Services  to  Which  it  Connects  People? 

The  quality  of  all  kinds  of  long-term  care  services 
varies  greatly  from  one  agency  and  individual  service 
provider  to  another.  Numerous  reports  document  the 
poor  quality  of  care  provided  by  some  nursing  homes 
(50,68)  and  home  care  agencies  (32,66,69),  for  exam¬ 
ple.  At  the  same  time,  these  reports  indicate  that 
other  nursing  homes  and  home  care  agencies  provide 
excellent  care.  Differences  in  quality  are  typical  not 
only  of  these  types  of  services,  but  of  all  kinds  of 
long-term  care  services. 

In  theory  at  least,  a  long-term  care  program  could 
take  several  different  approaches  with  respect  to  the 
quality  of  the  services  to  which  it  connects  its  clients. 
It  could  not  concern  itself  with  the  quality  of  the 
services,  and  rely  on  its  clients,  their  families,  and 
others  who  are  concerned  about  quality  to  obtain  for 
themselves  any  information  they  need  to  evaluate  the 
services.  It  could  inform  its  clients  that  there  are  sig¬ 
nificant  differences  in  the  quality  of  available  services. 


It  could  refer  its  clients  to  specific  sources  of  informa¬ 
tion  about  the  quality  of  available  services  or  provide 
its  clients  with  information  about  the  quality  of  avail¬ 
able  services.  Lastly,  it  could  arrange  and  pay  for 
only  services  that  met  specified  standards  of 
quality  (67). 

In  practice,  the  implementation  and  effectiveness  of 
any  of  these  approaches  would  be  hampered  by  the 
lack  of  agreed-upon  standards  for  evaluating  the  qual¬ 
ity  of  many  types  of  long-term  care  services  and  the 
lack  of  sources  of  accurate  information  about  the 
quality  of  services  (67).  The  development  of  standards 
for  evaluating  the  quality  of  all  types  of  long-term 
care  services  is  an  important  priority  in  the  implemen¬ 
tation  of  a  national  long-term  care  program. 

Some  programs  that  allocate  long-term  care  serv¬ 
ices  or  funding  for  services  have  developed  proce¬ 
dures  for  monitoring  and  controlling  the  quality  of 
the  services  to  which  they  connect  their  clients.  Cer¬ 
tain  of  these  programs  provide  services  and  therefore 
can  assure  (i.e.,  assess  and  correct  problems  in)  the 
quality  of  those  services  directly.  Other  programs 
contract  and/or  pay  for  services;  these  programs 
cannot  assure  the  quality  of  services  provided  by  any 
particular  agency  or  individual,  but  they  can  use  their 
contracting  and  reimbursement  procedures  to  select 
service  providers  that  meet  certain  standards  (see,  for 
example,  Applebaum,  et  al.,  1988  (10);  Balmer,  1988 
(17);  Dolan  and  Holtz,  1986  (26);  Mumma,  1987  (48); 
Torres,  1988  (65)). 

Many  commentators  have  suggested  that  case  man¬ 
agers  can  monitor  and  control  the  quality  of  long¬ 
term  care  services  generally  (4,16,27,29,37,57,70),  and 
most  of  the  programs  that  have  developed  procedures 
for  monitoring  and  controlling  the  quality  of  services 
to  which  they  connect  their  clients  involve  case  man¬ 
agers  in  that  process.  Case  managers  do  not  automati¬ 
cally  monitor  and  control  quality,  however.  Their 
functions  vis-a-vis  quality  vary  greatly,  depending  on 
factors  such  as  the  organization,  funding,  sponsorship, 
and  policies  and  procedures  of  the  agency  that  em¬ 
ploys  them. 

A  recent  review  of  the  experiences  of  case  man¬ 
agers  in  the  National  Long-Term  Care  Channeling 
Demonstration  illustrates  some  of  these  differences 
(11).  The  Channeling  Demonstration,  which  was 
funded  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services  from  1980  to  1985,  took  place  in  10  sites:  in  5 
sites,  the  case  managers  had  funds  to  purchase  serv¬ 
ices,  and  in  five  other  sites  they  had  only  very  limited 
funds.  Case  managers  in  both  types  of  sites  had  diffi¬ 
culty  controlling  the  quality  of  homemaker  and  per¬ 
sonal  care  services  received  by  their  clients.  Some 


157 


sites  had  contracts  with  homemaker/home  health  aide 
agencies,  and  at  those  sites,  procedures  for  monitoring 
quality  and  responding  to  inadequate  services  were 
detailed  in  the  contracts.  At  sites  that  did  not  have 
contracts  with  service  providers,  procedures  for  mon¬ 
itoring  quality  and  responding  to  problems  were  less 
structured  and  less  formal.  Sites  that  had  funds  to  pur¬ 
chase  services  used  the  threat  of  withholding  payment 
to  pressure  providers  into  improving  their  services. 
That  option  was  not  available  to  sites  that  did  not 
have  funds  to  purchase  services. 

These  findings  from  the  Channeling  Demonstration 
and  the  findings  of  some  State  programs  that  allocate 
long-term  care  services  or  funding  for  services  (e.g., 
Ohio’s  PASSPORT  program  and  Pennsylvania’s 
LAMP  program)  suggest  that  it  is  not  case  managers 
per  se  that  monitor  and  control  the  quality  of  long¬ 
term  care  services  but  rather  case  managers  in  an 
agency  or  program  that  has  explicit  procedures  for 
this  purpose.  Policy  makers  should  not  assume  that 
simply  involving  case  managers  in  a  long-term  care 
program  will  guarantee  that  the  program  will  monitor 
and  control  the  quality  of  services. 

Finally,  OTA’s  analysis  of  the  potential  role  of  case 
managers  and  case  management  agencies  with  respect 
to  the  quality  of  services  for  people  with  dementia 
suggests  that  case  managers  may  be  legally  con¬ 
strained  from  referring  clients  to  services  based  on  the 
case  managers’  judgments  about  the  quality  of  the 
services.  A  1987  Oregon  case  Bionic  Health  Care,  Inc. 
v.  State  of  Oregon  Department  of  Human  Resources,  et 
al.  (19)  concerned  a  situation  in  which  case  managers 
who  worked  for  a  public  agency  had  stopped  refer¬ 
ring  clients  to  one  nursing  home  that  they  believed 
was  providing  poor  care  and  that  was  under  review 
by  the  State  licensing  and  certification  agency.  The 
nursing  home  sued,  arguing  that  it  had  a  valid  State 
license  and  was  certified  by  Medicare  and  Medicaid 
and  that  the  case  managers  could  not  refuse  to  refer 
clients  there.  The  nursing  home  won,  and  the  case 
managers  have  been  instructed  not  to  make  recom¬ 
mendations  to  clients  about  service  providers. 

References 


1.  Abrahams,  R.,  Capitman,  J.,  Leutz,  W.,  et  al.,  “Variations  in  Care  Plan¬ 
ning  Practice  in  the  Social/HMO:  An  Exploratory  Study,”  Gerontologist 
29(6):725-736,  1989. 

2.  Abrahams.  R.,  and  Lamb,  S.,  “Developing  Reliable  Assessment  in  Case- 
Managed  Geriatric  Long  Term  Care  Programs,”  QRB  14(6):  179- 186,  1988. 

3.  Abrahams,  R.,  Nonnenkamp,  L.,  Dunn,  S.,  et  al.,  “Case  Management  in 
the  Social/Health  Maintenance  Organization,”  Generations  12(5):39-43,  1988. 

4.  American  Bar  Association,  Commission  on  Legal  Problems  of  the  El¬ 
derly,  “Report  to  the  House  of  Delegates,”  approved  by  the  House  of  Dele¬ 
gates  of  the  American  Bar  Association,  San  Francisco,  CA,  August  1987. 


OTA  has  no  information  about  how  often  case 
managers  in  programs  that  allocate  long-term  care 
services  or  funding  for  services  recommend  certain 
service  providers  on  the  basis  of  quality.  One  member 
of  the  advisory  panel  for  the  OTA  study  interviewed 
case  managers  who  refer  people  to  nursing  homes 
found  that  the  case  managers  generally  believed  that 
they  were  legally  constrained  from  making  referrals 
on  the  basis  of  quality  (38).  An  analysis  is  needed  of 
any  legal  constraints  or  legal  risks  that  may  be  in¬ 
curred  by  a  long-term  care  program  and  the  agencies 
and  case  managers  that  implement  it  when  the  case 
managers  authorize  services  on  the  basis  of  their 
quality. 


CONCLUSION 

This  paper  has  discussed  several  different  aspects  of 
case  management  and  has  suggested  ideas  and  options 
that  policy  makers  could  consider  in  designing  the 
case  management  component  of  a  national  long-term 
care  program.  Because  of  the  widespread  uncertainty, 
confusion,  and  disagreement  about  what  case  manage¬ 
ment  is,  it  would  be  easy  for  policy  makers  to  leave 
difficult  policy  issues  unresolved,  to  be  worked  out  in 
the  case  management  process.  Some  of  the  policy 
issues  that  could  be  left  unresolved  are:  what  kinds  of 
people  are  eligible  for  what  kinds  of  services;  whether 
the  relative  emphasis  in  the  program  is  on  cost  con¬ 
tainment  or  providing  more  services  for  people;  what 
the  role  of  clients  and  their  families  should  be  in  deci¬ 
sions  about  the  services  they  will  receive;  and 
whether  the  long-term  care  program  will  be  respon¬ 
sible  in  any  way  for  the  quality  of  services  to  which  it 
connects  people  and  if  so,  how.  People  who  need 
long-term  care  are  extremely  diverse,  so  the  applica¬ 
tion  of  policy  decisions  in  each  of  these  areas  to  an 
individual  client’s  situation  must  be  left  to  the  case 
manager’s  judgment.  The  basic  policy  decisions — that 
create  the  program  structure  within  which  case  man¬ 
agers  will  make  judgments  about  individual  client’s 
situations — should  be  made,  however,  by  those  who 
design  the  system. 


5.  American  Hospital  Association,  Office  of  the  General  Counsel,  Legal 
Memorandum:  Discharging  Hospital  Patients:  Legal  Implications  for  Institu¬ 
tional  Providers  and  Health  Care  Professionals:  Report  of  the  Task  Force  on 
Legal  Issues  in  Discharge  Planning  (Chicago,  IL:  1987). 

6.  American  Nurses’  Association,  “Nursing  Case  Management,”  Kansas 
City,  MO,  1988. 

7.  Amerman,  E.,  “The  Nurse/Social  Worker  Dyad  in  Community-Based 
Long-Term  Care,”  presented  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Gerontological 
Association  of  America,  San  Francisco,  CA,  November  1983. 

8.  Applebaum,  R.A.,  “Lessons  From  the  National  Channeling  Demonstra¬ 
tion,”  Generations  12(5):58— 61,  1988. 


158 


9.  Applebaum,  R.A.,  “What’s  All  This  About  Quality?”  Generations 
13(l):5-7,  1989. 

10.  Applebaum,  R.A.,  Atchley,  S.J.,  McGinnis,  R.,  et  al.,  A  Guide  to  Ensur¬ 
ing  the  Quality  of  In-Home  Care:  Final  Report  of  Ohio’s  Quality  Assurance 
Project  (Oxford,  OH:  Miami  University,  April  1988). 

11.  Applebaum,  R.A.,  and  Christianson,  J.,  “Using  Case  Management  To 
Monitor  Community-Based  Long-Term  Care,”  Quality  Review  Bulletin 
14(7):227-231,  1988. 

12.  Applebaum,  R.A.,  and  Wilson,  N.L.,  “Training  Needs  for  Providing 
Case  Management  for  the  Long-Term  Care  Client:  Lessons  From  the  Na¬ 
tional  Channeling  Demonstration,”  Gerontologist  28(2):  172- 176,  1988. 

13.  Austin,  C.D.,  “Case  Management:  Options  and  Opportunities,”  Health 
and  Social  Work  8(1):  16— 30,  1983. 

14.  Austin,  C.D.,  “History  and  Politics  of  Care  Management,”  Generations 
1 2(5):7— 10,  1988. 

15.  Austin,  C.D.,  Borgatta,  E.F.,  and  Roberts,  E.A.,  Improving  Access  for 
Elders:  The  Role  of  Case  Management — Final  Report  (Seattle,  WA:  University 
of  Washington,  Institute  on  Aging,  January  1987). 

16.  Austin,  C.D.,  Law,  J.,  Roberts,  E.A.,  et  al.,  Case  Management:  A  Criti¬ 
cal  Review  (Seattle,  WA:  University  of  Washington,  Pacific  Northwest  Long- 
Term  Care  Gerontology  Center,  1985). 

17.  Balmer,  D.L.,  Manager,  Division  of  Administrative  Compliance,  Illi¬ 
nois  Department  on  Aging,  “The  Illinois  Department  of  Aging  Quality  As¬ 
surance  Program,”  presented  to  “The  National  Conference  on  Home  Care 
Quality,”  conference  sponsored  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  for 
Planning  and  Evaluation,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services, 
Washington,  DC,  June  2,  1988. 

18.  Beatrice,  D.F.,  “Case  Management:  A  Policy  Option  for  Long-Term 
Care,”  Reforming  the  Long-Term  Care  System:  Financial  and  Organizational 
Options,  J.J.  Callahan  and  S.S.  Wallack  (eds.)  (Lexington,  MA:  Lexington 
Books,  D.C.  Heath  &  Co.,  1981). 

19.  Bionic  Health  Care,  Inc.  v.  State  of  Oregon  Department  of  Human  Re¬ 
sources  et  aL,  Civil  No.  87-0816-PA,  Nov.  2,  1987. 

20.  Brody,  E.M.,  “The  Family  at  Risk,”  Alzheimer's  Disease  Treatment  and 
Family  Stress:  Directions  for  Research  E.  Light  and  B.D.  Lebowitz  (eds.) 
(Rockville,  MD:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  j 
Institute  of  Mental  Health,  1989). 

21.  Brown,  T.E.,  Jr.,  Director,  Office  of  Program  Management,  South 
Carolina  Department  of  Health  and  Environmental  Control,  remarks  to  the 
National  Council  on  the  Aging  symposium  “Case  Management:  Fad  or 
Fact?”  Washington,  DC,  Apr.  14,  1988. 

22.  Brubaker,  T.H.,  “The  Long-Term  Care  Triad:  The  Elderly,  Their 
Families,  and  Bureaucracies,”  Aging,  Health,  and  the  Family,  T.H.  Brubaker 
(ed.)  (Newbury  Park,  CA:  Sage  Publications,  1987). 

23.  Callahan,  J.J.,  “Paying  for  Case  Management,”  Generations  12(5):75,76, 
1988. 

24.  Cantor,  M.,  Rehr,  H.,  and  Trotz,  V.,  “Workshop  II:  Case  Management 
and  Family  Involvement,”  Mount  Sinai  Journal  of  Medicine  48:566-568,  1981. 

25.  Capitman,  J.A.,  Haskins,  B.,  and  Bernstein,  J.,  “Case  Management  Ap¬ 
proaches  in  Coordinated  Community-Oriented  Long-Term  Care  Demonstra¬ 
tions,”  Gerontologist  26(4):398-404,  1986. 

26.  Dolan,  K.R.,  and  Holtz,  J.,  “The  Commission  on  Accreditation  for 
Home  Care  in  New  Jersey,”  Caring  5(4):49-50,  April,  1986. 

27.  Downing,  R.,  “The  Elderly  and  Their  Families,”  Case  Management  in 
Human  Service  Practice,  M.  Weil  and  J.M.  Karls  (eds.)  (San  Francisco,  CA: 
Jossey-Bass  Publishers,  1985). 

28.  Fessler,  S.R.,  and  Adams,  C.G.,  “Nurse/Social  Worker  Role  Conflict 
in  Home  Health  Care,”  Journal  of  Gerontological  Social  Work  9(1):1 13—123, 
1985. 

29.  Freeman,  I.C.,  “Consumer  Advocacy  Issues  in  Case  Management,”  Im¬ 
proving  Access  for  Elders:  The  Role  of  Case  Management — Conference  Proceed¬ 
ings  (Seattle,  WA:  University  of  Washington,  Institute  on  Aging,  1986). 

30.  Grau,  L.,  “Case  Management  and  the  Nurse,”  Geriatric  Nursing 
5(8):372-375,  November/December  1984. 

31.  Greene,  R.R.,  Social  Work  with  the  Aged  and  Their  Families  (New  York, 
NY:  Aldine  de  Gruyter,  1986). 

32.  Harrington,  C.H.,  Grant,  L.A.,  Ingman,  S.R.,  et  al.,  “The  Study  of 
Regulation  of  Home  Health  Care  Agencies  in  Two  States:  California  and 
Missouri,”  Institute  for  Health  and  Aging,  University  of  California,  San  Fran¬ 
cisco,  CA,  December  1988. 

33.  Hereford,  R.W.,  “New  Community  Services  for  Older  People,”  pre¬ 
sented  at  the  34th  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Society  on  Aging,  San 
Diego,  CA,  March  1988. 

34.  Intergovernmental  Health  Policy  Project,  State  Financing  of  Long-Term 
Care  Services  for  the  Elderly.  Vol.  I:  Executive  Report,  D.J.  Lipson  and  E. 
Donohoe  (Washington,  DC:  May  1988). 

35.  Justice,  D.,  State  Long-Term  Care  Reform:  Development  of  Community 
Care  Systems  in  Six  States  (Washington,  DC:  National  Governors’  Associa¬ 
tion,  April  1988). 

36.  Kane,  R.A.,  “Case  Management  in  Health  Care  Settings,”  Case  Man¬ 
agement  in  the  Human  Service  Practice,  M.  Weil  and  J.M.  Karls  and  Associ¬ 
ates  (eds.)  (San  Francisco,  CA:  Jossey-Bass,  1985). 


37.  Kane,  R.A.,  “Case  Management:  Ethical  Pitfalls  on  the  Road  to  High- 
Quality  Managed  Care,”  Quality  Review  Bulletin  14(5):161— 166,  1988. 

38.  Kane,  R.A.,  Professor,  School  of  Public  Health  and  School  of  Social 
Work,  University  of  Minnesota,  Minneapolis,  MN,  statement  to  the  Office  of 
Technology  Assessment  Advisory  Panel  on  Methods  of  Locating  and  Ar¬ 
ranging  Health  and  Long-Term  Care  Services  for  Persons  With  Dementia, 
Washington,  DC,  June  23,  1988. 

39.  Kane,  R.A.,  Penrod,  J.,  Davidson,  G.,  et  al.,  Case  Management  Costs: 
Conceptual  Models  and  Program  Descriptions  (Minneapolis,  MN:  University  of 
Minnesota,  1989). 

40.  Kemper,  P.,  Applebaum,  R.,  and  Harrigan,  M.,  A  Systematic  Compari¬ 
son  of  Community  Care  Demonstrations  (Madison,  WI:  University  of  Wiscon¬ 
sin  Institute  for  Research  on  Poverty,  1987). 

41.  Kerr,  M.H.,  and  Birk,  J.M.,  “A  Client-Centered  Case  Management 
Model,”  14(9):279-283,  1988. 

42.  Leutz,  W.,  Abrahams,  R.,  Greenlick,  M.,  et  al.,  “Targeting  Expanded 
Care  to  the  Aged:  Early  SHMO  Experience,”  Gerontologist  28(1):4— 17,  1988. 

43.  Levine,  I.S.,  and  Fleming,  M.,  Human  Resources  Development:  Issues  in 
Case  Management  (Rockville,  MD:  National  Institute  of  Mental  Health, 
1986). 

44.  Litwak,  E.,  Helping  the  Elderly:  The  Complementary  Roles  of  Informal 
Networks  and  Formal  Systems  (New  York,  NY:  Guilford  Press,  1985). 

45.  Lowy,  L.,  Social  Work  With  the  Aging  (New  York,  NY:  Longman, 
1985). 

46.  Mathematica  Policy  Research,  Inc.,  Princeton,  NJ,  The  Evaluation  of 
the  National  Long-Term  Care  Demonstration:  Final  Report,  National  Long- 
Term  Care  Channeling  Demonstration,  prepared  by  P.  Kemper,  R.S.  Brown, 
G.J.  Carcagno,  et  al.  for  the  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Serv¬ 
ices,  Contract  No.  HHS- 100-80-8 157,  Washington,  DC,  May  1986. 

47.  Mathematica  Policy  Research,  Inc.,  Princeton,  NJ,  The  Planning  and 
Operational  Experience  of  the  Channeling  Projects,  Vol.  1  and  Vol.  2,  National 
Long-Term  Care  Channeling  Demonstration,  prepared  by  G.J.  Carcagno,  R. 
Applebaum,  J.  Christianson,  et  al.  for  the  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services,  Contract  No.  HHS- 100-80-8 157,  Washington,  DC,  July 
1986. 

48.  Mumma,  N.L.,  “Quality  and  Cost  Control  of  Home  Care  Services 
Through  Coordinated  Funding,”  Quality  Review  Bulletin  13(8):271— 278,  1987. 

49.  Mundinger,  M.O.,  “Community-Based  Care:  Who  Will  Be  the  Case 
Managers?”  Nursing  Outlook  32(6):294-295,  1984. 

50.  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  Institute  of  Medicine,  Improving  the 
Quality  of  Care  in  Nursing  Homes  (Washington,  DC:  National  Academy  of 
Sciences,  1986). 

51.  National  Association  of  Social  Workers,  “NASW  Standards  and  Guide¬ 
lines  for  Social  Work  Case  Management  for  the  Functionally  Impaired,” 
Silver  Spring,  MD,  1984. 

52.  National  Council  on  the  Aging,  National  Institute  of  Community-Based 
Long-Term  Care,  “Care  Management  Standards:  Guidelines  for  Practice,” 
Washington,  DC,  1988. 

53.  Parker,  M.,  and  Secord,  L.J.,  "Private  Practice  of  Case  Management,” 
Generations  1 2(5):54 — 57,  1988. 

54.  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Aging,  “LAMP  Demonstration  Site  Pro¬ 
gram  Requirements,  Planning  Allocations  and  LAMP  Contract  Format  for 
FY  1987-88,”  LAMP  Bulletin  No.  87-1,  Harrisburg,  PA,  June  1,  1987. 

55.  Phillips,  B.R.,  Kemper,  P.,  and  Applebaum,  R.A.,  “Case  Management 
Under  Channeling,”  Health  Services  Research  23(1):67— 8 1,  1988. 

56.  Phillips,  B.R.,  and  Schneider,  B.,  “The  Appropriateness  and  Consist¬ 
ency  of  Assessments  in  the  Pennsylvania  Long-Term  Care  Assessment  and 
Case  Management  Program:  Final  Report,”  Mathematica  Policy  Research 
Inc.,  Princeton,  NJ,  june  30,  1988. 

57.  Sabatino,  C.P.,  “Homecare  Quality,”  Generations  13(1):12— 16,  1989. 

58.  Schneider,  B.,  “Care  Planning:  The  Core  of  Case  Management,”  Gen¬ 
erations  12(5):  16- 18,  1988. 

59.  Seltzer.  M.M.,  Ivry,  J.,  and  Litchfield.,  J.,  “Family  Members  as  Case 
Managers:  Partnership  Between  the  Formal  and  Informal  Support  Net¬ 
works,”  Gerontologist  27(6):722-728,  1987. 

60.  Seltzer,  M.S.,  Simmons,  K.,  Ivry,  J.,  et  al.,  “Agency-Family  Partner¬ 
ships:  Case  Management  of  Services  for  the  Elderly,”  Journal  of  Gerontologi¬ 
cal  Social  Work  7:57-71,  1984. 

61.  Silverstone,  B.,  and  Burack-Weiss,  A.,  Social  Work  Practice  With  the 
Frail  Elderly  and  Their  Families:  The  Auxiliary  Function  Model  (Springfield, 
IL:  Charles  C.  Thomas,  1983). 

62.  Simmons,  K.H.,  Ivry,  J.,  and  Seltzer,  M.M.,  “Agency-Family  Collabo¬ 
ration,”  Gerontologist  25:343-346,  1985. 

63.  Steinberg,  R.M.,  and  Carter,  G.,  Case  Management  and  the  Elderly 
(Lexington,  MA:  Lexington  Books,  D.C.  Heath  &  Co.,  1983). 

64.  Sussman,  M  B.,  “Family,  Bureaucracy,  and  the  Elderly  Individual:  An 
Organizational-Linkage  Perspective,  “  Family,  Bureaucracy,  and  the  Edlerly, 
E.  Shanas  and  M  B.  Sussman  (eds.)  (Durham,  NC:  Duke  University  Press, 
1977). 

65.  Torres,  M.S.,  “Quality  Assurance  of  Brokered  Services,”  Quality 
Review  Bulletin  14(6):  187- 192,  1988. 


159 


66.  U.S.  Congress,  House  of  Representatives,  Select  Committee  on  Aging, 
The  “ Black  Box  ”  of  Home  Care  Quality ,  prepared  by  the  American  Bar  Asso¬ 
ciation,  Comm.  Pub.  No.  99-573  (Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Government  Print¬ 
ing  Office,  August  1986). 

67.  U.S.  Congress,  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  Confused  Minds,  Bur¬ 
dened  Families:  Finding  Help  for  People  With  Alzheimer's  and  Other  Dementias 
in  press,  1990. 

68.  U.S.  Congress,  Senate,  Special  Committee  on  Aging,  Nursing  Home 
Care:  The  Unfinished  Agenda,  Serial  No.  99-J  (Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Gov¬ 
ernment  Printing  Office,  May  1986). 

69.  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Office  of  the  Inspec¬ 
tor  General,  “Home  Health  Aide  Services  for  Medicare  Patients,”  draft, 
Washington,  DC,  April  1987. 


70.  Vladeck,  B.,  “Quality  Assurance  Through  External  Controls,”  Inquiry 
25:100-107,  1988. 

71.  Weil,  M.,  “Key  Components  in  Providing  Efficient  and  Effective  Serv¬ 
ices,”  Case  Management  in  Human  Service  Practice,  M.  Weil  and  J.M.  Karls 
(eds.)  (San  Francisco:  CA:  Jossey-Bass,  1985). 

72.  White,  M.,  “Case  Management,”  Encyclopedia  of  Aging,  G.L.  Maddox, 
R.C.  Atchley,  L.W.  Poon,  et  al.  (eds.)  (New  York,  NY:  Springer  Publishing 
Co.,  1987). 

73.  Zarit,  S.H.,  MaloneBeach,  E.,  and  Spore,  D.L.,  “Case  Management  as 
an  Approach  to  Dementia:  An  Exploratory  Study,”  contract  report  prepared 
for  the  Office  of  Technology  Assessment,  U.S.  Congress,  Washington,  DC, 
July  1988. 


160 


ROLE  OF  FEDERAL  AND  STATE  GOVERNMENTS 
AND  VOLUNTARY  ORGANIZATIONS  IN  ASSUR¬ 
ING  QUALITY  OF  CARE  IN  SELECTED  LONG¬ 
TERM  CARE  SERVICES 


Carol  O’Shaughnessy  and  Richard  Price  * 


This  is  in  response  to  your  request  for  information 
on  the  role  of  Federal  and  State  Governments  and 
voluntary  organizations  in  assuring  quality  of  care  for 
selected  long-term  care  services.  For  purposes  of  our 
review,  we  have  defined  long-term  care  services  as 
being  provided  in  four  distinct  settings:  (1)  nursing 
homes,  (2)  the  home,  and  (3)  adult  day  care,  and  (4) 
board  and  care  homes.  Home  care  includes  both 
home  health  care  and  nonmedical  supportive  services, 
such  as  personal  care,  homemaker,  and  chore  services. 
This  memorandum  discusses  Federal  and  State  re¬ 
quirements  and  the  activities  of  voluntary  organiza¬ 
tions  aimed  at  assuring  quality  of  care  in  each  of  these 
settings. 


INTRODUCTION 

Assessment  of  quality  care  in  long-term  care  serv¬ 
ices  generally  includes  three  components:  establish¬ 
ment  of  standards  of  care;  monitoring  the  degree  to 
which  standards  are  met;  and  enforcement  of  stand¬ 
ards.  Assessing  quality  of  care  for  long-term  care 
services  is  difficult,  due  partially  to  the  wide  range  of 
settings  in  which  long-term  care  services  are  provided 
and  the  complex  needs  of  chronically  impaired  popu¬ 
lations.  Settings  range  from  skilled  nursing  homes 
where  patients  receive  intensive  nursing  services  to 
home  and  community-based  services  which  respond 
to  a  variety  of  supportive  service  needs.  Federal  ef¬ 
forts  to  assure  quality  has  generally  been  devoted  to 
the  review  of  the  structure  and  process  by  which 
long-term  care  providers  deliver  services,  for  exam- 

*  Prepared  for  the  U.S.  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Comprehensive  Health 
Care  (The  Pepper  Commission),  by  Carol  O’Shaughnessy  and  Richard  Price, 
Specialists  in  Social  Legislation,  Education  and  Public  Welfare  Division, 
Congressional  Research  Service,  August  25,  1989. 


pie,  by  focusing  on  the  organization  of  the  provider, 
and  staff  qualifications  and  training.  Recently  some 
Federal  attention  has  been  directed  at  client-centered 
assessment  procedures  in  nursing  homes  and  home 
health  services. 

Although  a  number  of  Federal  programs  support 
long-term  care  services — primarily  Medicaid,  Medi¬ 
care,  the  Social  Services  Block  Grant  Program 
(SSBG),  the  Older  Americans  Act,  and  the  Supple¬ 
mental  Security  Income  (SSI)  Program — Federal  re¬ 
quirements  for  assuring  quality  of  care  through  the 
establishment,  monitoring,  and  enforcement  of  stand¬ 
ards  vary  significantly  across  these  programs.  In  part 
because  of  the  large  commitment  of  Federal  dollars  to 
nursing  home  care  under  the  Medicaid  and  Medicare 
programs,  concern  with  quality  of  long-term  care 
services  has  focused  on  this  particular  setting  during 
the  past  two  decades.  However,  in  the  past  few  years, 
quality  of  home  care  has  also  become  an  important 
issue  for  policymakers.  This  relatively  new  interest 
has  come  with  awareness  of  a  rapidly  growing  home 
health  care  industry  and  increasing  expenditures 
under  the  Medicare  program.  The  number  of  home 
health  agencies  participating  in  Medicare  has  more 
than  doubled  in  less  than  a  decade — from  2,858  in 
1979  to  5,769  in  1988.  Program  payments  for  home 
health  care  increased  from  $542  million  in  1979  to 
$2.6  billion  in  1988.  Quality  issues  in  home  care  have 
also  arisen  as  the  nature  of  services  delivered  in  the 
home  has  changed  and  as  more  technologically  inten¬ 
sive  services  requiring  greater  expertise  from  home 
care  personnel  have  come  on  the  market.  In  addition, 
quality  of  home  care  has  become  more  prominent  as 
Congress  considers  a  variety  of  proposals  to  increase 
Federal  support  for  home  and  community-based  care. 


161 


While  each  of  the  programs  mentioned  above  sup¬ 
port  home  care  services,  only  the  Medicare  and  Med¬ 
icaid  programs  contain  specific  Federal  requirements 
pertaining  to  standards  of  care  for  home  health  care 
services.  The  establishment,  monitoring,  and  enforce¬ 
ment  of  standards  for  nonmedical  home  care  services, 
such  as  homemaker  and  chore,  is  the  responsibility  of 
State  government.  Similarly,  the  responsibility  for 
oversight  of  the  quality  of  adult  day  care  programs 
and  board  and  care  facilities  rests  with  States.  State 
policies  vary  significantly  as  to  methods  used  to  assess 
quality  and  to  monitor  and  enforce  standards  for  these 
community-based  services. 


NURSING  HOME  CARE 

The  National  Nursing  Home  Survey  of  1985,  the 
latest  national  survey  of  nursing  homes  in  the  coun¬ 
try,  estimates  that  there  were  approximately  19,100 
nursing  and  related  care  homes  at  that  time.  These 
nursing  homes  had  1.6  million  beds  and  about  1.5  mil¬ 
lion  residents.  The  services  provided  by  these  facili¬ 
ties  range  from  highly  skilled  medical,  nursing,  and 
rehabilitative  services  to  health-related,  personal  and 
supportive  care  for  persons  with  chronic  impairments. 


Federal  Requirements 

Medicare  and  Medicaid — Medicare  and  Medicaid 
law  and  regulations  specify  requirements  that  nursing 
homes  (skilled  nursing  facilities,  in  the  case  of  Medi¬ 
care,  and  skilled  nursing  facilities  and  intermediate 
care  facilities  (ICFs),  in  the  case  of  Medicaid)  must 
meet  in  order  to  participate  in  these  programs.  In  gen¬ 
eral,  these  requirements  specify  standards  for  staffing, 
provision  of  services,  and  organization  that  are  in¬ 
tended  to  assure  the  health  and  safety  of  residents.  In 
order  to  determine  that  nursing  homes  meet  these  re¬ 
quirements,  the  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Serv¬ 
ices  (HHS)  enters  into  agreements  with  States  to 
survey  facilities  on  an  annual  basis.  Nursing  homes 
that  are  found  by  State  survey  agencies  (generally, 
the  State’s  licensure  and  certification  agency)  to 
comply  with  requirements  are  certified  for  participa¬ 
tion.  The  Health  Care  Financing  Administration 
(HCFA),  for  nursing  homes  wishing  to  participate  in 
Medicare,  and  State  Medicaid  agencies,  for  nursing 
homes  wishing  to  participate  in  Medicaid,  then  decide 
whether  to  enter  into  an  agreement  with  a  nursing 
home  to  allow  the  facility  to  receive  reimbursement 
under  the  programs.  According  to  the  National  Nurs¬ 
ing  Home  Survey  of  1985,  76  percent  of  all  nursing 
homes  and  89  percent  of  all  beds  in  these  facilities 


were  certified  to  participate  in  Medicare  and/or  Med¬ 
icaid  at  that  time. 

Recently,  the  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation  Act 
of  1987  (OBRA  87)  included  provisions,  commonly 
referred  to  as  nursing  home  reform,  that  comprehen¬ 
sively  revise  the  statutory  authority  for  nursing  home 
certification.  Implementation  of  these  provisions  is  to 
be  phased  in  from  1988  through  1991,  with  major  sec¬ 
tions  of  the  new  law  becoming  effective  October  1, 
1990.  When  these  provisions  become  fully  effective, 
they  will — 

•  establish  in  Medicare  and  Medicaid  law  a  very 
similar  set  of  requirements  that  nursing  homes 
must  meet  in  order  to  participate  in  the  pro¬ 
grams,  including  requirements  as  to  the  scope  of 
services  nursing  homes  must  provide,  levels  of 
staffing  in  the  facility  and  qualifications  of  staff, 
assessment  of  each  resident’s  functional  capacity, 
and  residents’  rights,  among  others; 

•  require  an  unannounced  standard  survey  of 
nursing  homes  that  is  focused  on  residents  and 
outcomes  of  the  care  they  receive,  as  well  as  ex¬ 
tended  surveys  for  those  facilities  found  to  be 
providing  substandard  care;  and 

•  expand  the  sanctions  that  States  and  HCFA  may 
impose  against  noncompliant  nursing  homes. 

The  enclosed  CRS  report,  Medicare  and  Medicaid 
Nursing  Home  Reform  Provisions  in  the  Omnibus 
Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1987,  P.L.  100-203,  pro¬ 
vides  additional  background  information  on  nursing 
home  certification  under  Medicare  and  Medicaid,  as 
well  as  a  detailed  summary  of  the  enacted  legislation. 

In  addition  to  requirements  for  the  certification  of 
nursing  homes  wishing  to  participate  in  Medicare 
and/or  Medicaid,  the  Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation 
Act  of  1986  (OBRA  86)  contained  two  provisions  au¬ 
thorizing  peer  review  organizations  (PROs)  to  review 
the  quality  of  care  provided  Medicare  beneficiaries  in 
post-hospital  settings,  including  nursing  homes.  One 
provision  requires  PROs  to  review  early  readmissions 
of  Medicare  beneficiaries  to  hospitals  (those  occurring 
within  31  days  of  a  previous  hospital  discharge)  to  de¬ 
termine  if  inpatient  hospital  and  post-hospital  services, 
including  skilled  nursing  facilities,  meet  professionally 
recognized  standards  of  care.  OBRA  86  also  requires 
PROs  to  allocate  a  reasonable  portion  of  their  activi¬ 
ties  to  review  the  quality  of  services  among  different 
cases  and  settings,  including  post-acute  services  pro¬ 
vided  by  skilled  nursing  facilities,  regardless  of 
whether  a  readmission  has  taken  place.  HCFA  has 
chosen  to  implement  only  the  readmission  require¬ 
ment  of  OBRA  86,  arguing  that  the  existing 


162 


survey  and  certification  process  addresses  the  second 
requirement. 

Older  Americans  Act — While  Medicare  and  Medi¬ 
caid  requirements  for  certifying  nursing  homes  have 
generally  focused  on  quality  of  care  by  review  of  fa¬ 
cilities’  compliance  with  standards  related  to  services, 
staffing,  and  health  and  safety  of  residents,  another 
Federal  program  takes  a  consumer-based  approach  to 
defining  quality  of  care.  Under  provisions  of  the 
Older  Americans  Act,  each  State  agency  on  aging 
must  establish  a  State  long-term  care  ombudsman 
office  which  is  responsible  for  investigating  and  re¬ 
solving  complaints  made  by,  or  on  behalf  of,  residents 
of  nursing  homes,  board  and  care  facilities,  and  other 
adult  care  homes.  Ombudsmen  are  required  to  investi¬ 
gate  and  resolve  complaints  of  residents  1  related  to 
the  action,  inaction,  or  decisions  of  long-term  care 
providers,  or  their  representatives,  or  of  public  agen¬ 
cies  and  social  services  agencies  which  may  adversely 
affect  residents’  health,  safety,  welfare,  or  rights. 
Under  provisions  of  the  Older  Americans  Act  and 
OBRA  87,  ombudsmen  are  required  to  have  access  to 
long-term  care  facilities  and  to  patient  records.  OBRA 
87  also  required  that  State  agencies  responsible  for 
surveying  nursing  homes  share  the  results  of  their 
Medicare/Medicaid  surveys  with  the  State  long-term 
care  ombudsman. 

The  Older  Americans  Act  specifies  a  number  of 
other  requirements  aimed  at  assuring  that  the  ombuds¬ 
man  program  act  as  an  advocate  on  behalf  of  resi¬ 
dents  on  a  statewide  basis.  In  addition  to  individual 
resident  complaint  investigation,  the  law  requires  om¬ 
budsmen  to  analyze  and  monitor  the  implementation 
of  Federal,  State,  and  local  policies  affecting  residents 
and  to  appropriate  actions  to  improve  quality  of  care. 
Ombudsmen  are  also  required  to  develop  a  statewide 
reporting  system  to  identify  and  resolve  significant 
problems  in  facilities  and  to  submit  this  information  to 
the  State  agency  responsible  for  licensing  or  certify¬ 
ing  long-term  care  facilities. 

While  Older  American  Act  funds  are  available  to 
support  ombudsman  staff  at  both  the  State  and  local 
levels,  to  a  large  extent  the  program  relies  on  volun¬ 
teer  ombudsmen.  In  FY  1987,  out  of  over  9,800  staff 
devoted  to  the  ombudsman  program,  about  88  percent 
were  volunteers.  The  Administration  on  Aging  (AoA) 
reports  that  in  FY  1987  over  110,000  complaints  were 

1  The  Older  Americans  Act  supports  services  and  programs  for  persons 
aged  60  and  over.  According  to  an  analysis  by  the  National  Association  of 
State  Units  on  Aging  (NASUA),  of  35  States  which  have  enacted  State  laws 
pertaining  to  the  ombudsman  program,  22  laws  do  not  specify  an  age  limita¬ 
tion  for  residents  who  may  receive  ombudsman  services.  NASUA,  An  Analy¬ 
sis  of  Policies  and  Procedures  of  State  Long  Term  Care  Ombudsman  Offices 
(September  1988),  31. 


received  by  ombudsmen,  a  63  percent  increase  since 
FY  1982. 2 


State  Regulation 

In  addition  to  surveying  nursing  homes  for  Medi¬ 
care  and/or  Medicaid  certification,  States,  through 
their  licensure  and  certification  agencies,  also  conduct 
licensure  inspections  of  nursing  homes.  As  noted 
above,  not  all  nursing  homes  are  Medicare/Medicaid 
certified.  For  certified  and  non-certified  facilities 
alike,  all  States  have  licensing  laws  pertaining  to  nurs¬ 
ing  homes  that  specify  requirements  nursing  homes 
must  meet  in  order  to  operate  in  the  State.  As  is  the 
case  with  Federal  regulation,  State  licensing  includes: 
(1)  requirements  for  provision  of  services,  staffing, 
and  assuring  the  health  and  safety  of  residents;  (2)  in¬ 
spections  of  facilities;  and  (3)  sanctions  and  penalties 
that  may  be  imposed  against  deficient  nursing  homes. 
Certain  States  use  Medicare/Medicaid  certification  re¬ 
quirements  as  a  foundation  for  their  licensing  laws 
and  may  include  additional  requirements  for  nursing 
homes  to  operate  in  the  State. 

An  Institute  of  Medicine  (IOM)  survey  of  the  di¬ 
rectors  of  State  licensure  and  certification  agencies,  as 
reported  in  Improving  the  Quality  of  Care  in  Nursing 
Homes,  found  that  just  over  half  (24/47)  of  the  re¬ 
spondents  judged  their  State’s  licensure  requirements 
for  intermediate  care  facilities  more  stringent  than 
those  of  the  Federal  Government;  one-quarter  (11/47) 
said  they  were  the  same;  and  one-quarter  (12/47)  said 
they  were  less  stringent.3  One-third  (17/47)  of  the  di¬ 
rectors  stated  that  their  State’s  licensure  requirements 
for  skilled  nursing  facilities  are  more  stringent  than 
the  Federal  requirements;  one-third  (14/47)  said  they 
were  about  the  same;  and  one-third  (14/47)  said  they 
were  less  stringent. 

According  to  this  IOM  survey,  most  agencies 
conduct  licensure  inspections  once  every  12  months 
(40/47). 4  Nearly  all  State  survey  agencies  indicated 
that  they  have  at  least  several  licensure  sanctions 
available  to  them,  but  very  few  were  applying  any 
formal  sanctions,  State  or  Federal.  The  IOM  survey 
found  that  85  percent  of  the  total  actions  against 
noncompliant  nursing  homes  were  taken  in  13  States.5 


2  Administration  on  Aging,  FY  1988  Report  to  Congress  on  Long-Term  Care 
Ombudsman  Activities  Under  Title  III  of  the  Older  Americans  Act,  FY  1987 
(December  1988). 

3  Institute  of  Medicine.  Improving  the  Quality  of  Care  in  Nursing  Homes 
(Washington,  D.C.:  National  Academy  Press,  1986),  319-320. 

4  Institute  of  Medicine,  Improving  Quality,  320. 

5  Institute  of  Medicine,  Improving  Quality,  321. 


163 


Voluntary  Organizations 

Nursing  homes  may  voluntarily  obtain  accreditation 
from  the  Joint  Commission  on  Accreditation  of 
Healthcare  Organizations  (JCAHO),  as  meeting  cer¬ 
tain  standards  for  providing  quality  care.  Specifically, 
JCAHO  accredits  nursing  homes  that  are  licensed  by 
their  States  and  have  24-hour  registered  nurse  cover¬ 
age.  About  1,100  nursing  homes  have  been  accredited 
by  JCAHO.  Accreditation  surveys  are  announced  in 
advance  and  include  on-site  observations  of  the  facil¬ 
ity.  If  it  is  found  to  be  in  substantial  compliance  with 
Joint  Commission  standards,  a  facility  is  awarded  ac¬ 
creditation  for  3  years  and  is  not  resurveyed  until  the 
end  of  its  accreditation  cycle  (although  JCAHO  may 
conduct  interim  surveys  for  organizations  accredited 
with  certain  kinds  of  problems).  According  to 
JCAHO,  standards  for  accreditation  are  similar  to  re¬ 
quirements  for  Federal  certification.* * 6 


HOME  CARE 

Home  care  is  a  generic  term  encompassing  a 
number  of  different  services  and  functions.  Home  care 
services  range  from  highly  complex  functions  pro¬ 
vided  by  skilled  personnel,  such  as  registered  nurses 
and  therapists,  to  personal  care  and  housekeeping 
services  provided  by  nontechnical  personnel  such  as 
home  health  aides  and  homemakers.  There  are  no  uni¬ 
form  Federal  standards  by  which  to  judge  the  quality 
of  the  broad  range  of  home  care  services  supported 
by  each  of  the  major  Federal  funding  sources.  Medi¬ 
care  finances  home  health  services  provided  by 
agencies  which  must  meet  federally  prescribed  re¬ 
quirements.  However,  other  Federal  programs,  such 
as  the  Older  Americans  Act  and  the  SSBG,  provide 
funds  for  nonmedical  home  care  services  to  State 
agencies  which  have  wide  flexibility  in  defining  qual¬ 
ity  of  care.  A  recent  study  of  State  home  care  quality 
assurance  programs  indicated  that  this  fragmented  ac¬ 
countability  makes  assurance  of  quality  of  care  diffi¬ 
cult  to  achieve.7 

The  total  number  of  home  care  providers  which 
provide  one  or  more  home  care  services  is  difficult  to 
gauge.  There  are  about  6,000  Medicare-certified  home 
health  agencies.  It  is  estimated  that  another  6,000 
agencies  provide  services  similar  to  Medicare’s  home 
health  benefits  (as  well  as  other  paraprofessional  home 
care  services)  but  are  not  certified  by  Medicare.8  In 


8  This  information  was  obtained  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  JCAHO 

on  Aug.  14,  1989  and  from  JCAHO’s  1988  Long-Term  Care  Standards 

Manual. 

7  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Office  of  the  Assistant 
Secretary  for  Planning  and  Evaluation,  Review  of  State  Quality  Assurance  Pro¬ 
grams  for  Home  Care  (April  1989),  sec.  I,  3. 

8  Charles  Sabatino,  “Homecare  Quality,”  Generations  (Winter  1989):  13. 


addition,  according  to  the  National  Association  for 
Home  Care  (NAHC)  the  number  of  agencies  provid¬ 
ing  only  nonmedical  supportive  home  care  services, 
such  as  homemaker  and  chore  services,  is  estimated  to 
be  about  4,000  to  6,000.  The  total  number  of  agencies 
providing  home  care  services  may  be  as  high  as 
20,000. 


Federal  Requirements 

Medicare  and  Medicaid — The  Medicare  program 
covers  a  variety  of  medically-related  home  health 
services  for  persons  who  meet  certain  qualifying 
criteria.  Covered  services  must  be  provided  by  a 
home  health  agency  that  is  certified  to  participate  in 
the  program.  Medicare  law  and  regulations  specify 
the  requirements  that  home  health  care  agencies  must 
meet  in  order  to  participate.  These  requirements 
specify  standards  for  staffing,  provision  of  services, 
and  organization  that  are  intended  to  assure  the  health 
and  safety  of  residents.  As  in  the  case  of  nursing 
home  care,  the  Secretary  of  HHS  uses  State  licensure 
and  certification  agencies  to  survey  home  health 
agencies  to  determine  their  compliance  with  these 
requirements. 

OBRA  87  included  provisions  that  revise  the  certi¬ 
fication  process  for  home  health  agencies  participating 
in  Medicare.  The  approach  adopted  in  OBRA  87  for 
assuring  quality  home  health  care  is  similar  to  the  ap¬ 
proach  used  for  nursing  home  care.  Specifically, 
OBRA  87— 

•  establishes  new  requirements  for  home  health 
agencies  that  emphasize  patients’  rights  and  train¬ 
ing  of  home  health  aides; 

•  requires  an  unannounced  standard  survey  that  in¬ 
cludes  visits  to  patients’  homes  and  an  extended 
survey  of  those  agencies  found  to  be  providing 
substandard  care;  and 

•  expands  the  sanctions  that  may  be  imposed 
against  agencies  that  do  not  comply  with  the  re¬ 
quirements  for  participation. 

OBRA  87  contained  certain  other  related  provi¬ 
sions.  It  requires  that  State  or  local  survey  agencies 
maintain  a  toll-free  hotline  (1)  to  collect,  maintain, 
and  continually  update  information  on  home  health 
agencies  certified  to  participate  in  Medicare,  including 
information  on  deficiencies  in  providing  care,  correc¬ 
tive  actions,  and  sanctions  imposed,  and  (2)  to  receive 
complaints  and  answer  questions  about  agencies. 
OBRA  87  also  requires  States  to  maintain  a  unit  that 
can  investigate  complaints  and  that  has  enforcement 


164 


authority  and  access  to  survey  and  certification  re¬ 
ports  and  consumer  medical  records. 

In  addition  to  Federal  certification  requirements, 
the  OBRA  86  requirements  described  above  for  PROs 
to  review  the  quality  of  care  provided  to  Medicare 
beneficiaries  in  post-hospital  settings  apply  to  home 
health  care.  As  noted,  HCFA  has  chosen  to  imple¬ 
ment  only  the  readmission  requirement  of  OBRA  86, 
arguing  that  the  existing  survey  and  certification 
process  addresses  the  more  general  requirement  for 
reviewing  the  quality  of  post-hospital  services,  includ¬ 
ing  home  health  care. 

States  also  cover  home  health  services  under  their 
Medicaid  plans.  The  Federal  Medicaid  statute  does 
not  define  the  term  home  health  services.  However, 
Medicaid  regulations  require  States  to  include  a  mini¬ 
mum  range  of  home  health  services  in  their  Medicaid 
programs.  These  include  nursing  services,  home 
health  aide  services,  and  medical  supplies  and  equip¬ 
ment.  At  the  State’s  option,  home  health  services  may 
also  include  physical  and  occupational  therapy, 
speech  pathology,  and  audiology  services. 

Under  Medicaid,  home  health  services  are  provided 
by  home  health  agencies  or  facilities  licensed  by  the 
State  to  provide  medical  rehabilitation  services.  Al¬ 
though  the  law  does  not  define  the  term  home  health 
agency,  Medicaid  regulations  define  it  as  a  public  or 
private  agency  or  organization,  or  a  subdivision  of 
such  an  agency  or  organization,  that  meets  the  re¬ 
quirements  for  participation  in  the  Medicare  program. 

States,  at  their  option,  may  also  cover  personal  care 
services  under  their  Medicaid  plans.  In  1987,  26  States 
did  so.  Medicaid  regulations  require  that  personal 
care  services  be  provided  in  a  beneficiary’s  home  and 
be  prescribed  by  a  physician  in  accordance  with  a  re¬ 
cipient’s  plan  of  treatment.  These  services  must  be 
provided  by  an  individual  who  is  qualified  to  provide 
the  services,  who  is  supervised  by  a  registered  nurse, 
and  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  recipient’s  family. 
States  have  a  great  deal  of  flexibility  in  defining  who 
is  qualified  to  provide  personal  care  services.  In  gen¬ 
eral,  Medicaid  allows  States  to  follow  their  own  pro¬ 
cedures  for  certifying  noninstitutional  providers  of 
care.  Medicaid  regulations  contain  a  general  re¬ 
quirement  that  a  State’s  plan  include  a  description  of 
methods  and  standards  used  to  assure  that  services  are 
of  high  quality.  This  would  apply  to  personal  care 
providers  and  State  determinations  as  to  who  is  a 
qualified  provider  of  these  services. 

Finally,  Medicaid  authorizes  States  to  cover  a 
variety  of  nonmedical  community-based  services 
under  home  and  community-based  waivers,  often  re¬ 


ferred  to  as  “2176  waivers.”  Services  which  may  be 
provided  under  the  waiver  include  case  management, 
homemaker/home  health  aide  services,  personal  care 
services,  adult  day  health  care  services,  habilitation 
services,  respite  care,  and  other  services.  As  of  March 
31,  1989,  48  States  had  waivers  to  provide  home  and 
community-based  services  to  aged  and  disabled,  men¬ 
tally  retarded,  and/or  mentally  ill  persons  who  would 
otherwise  require  institutional  care.  To  have  a  waiver 
request  approved  by  HCFA,  a  State  must  provide 
satisfactory  assurances  to  the  Secretary  as  to  the  safe¬ 
guards  taken  to  protect  the  health  and  welfare  of 
recipients  of  services.  Medicaid  regulations  imple¬ 
menting  this  provision  of  law  require  that  these  safe¬ 
guards  include  (1)  adequate  standards  for  all  types  of 
providers  that  provide  services  under  the  waiver;  (2) 
assurance  that  the  standards  of  any  State  licensure  or 
certification  requirements  are  met  for  services  or  for 
individuals  furnishing  services  that  are  provided  under 
the  waiver;  and  (3)  assurance  that  all  board  and  care 
facilities  in  which  home  and  community-based  serv¬ 
ices  will  be  provided  are  in  compliance  with  Federal 
and  State  requirements  for  facilities  in  which  a  signifi¬ 
cant  number  of  SSI  recipients  reside. 

Social  Services  Block  Grant  Program — The  SSBG 
provides  funds  to  States  for  a  broad  range  of  social 
services.  The  Federal  law  gives  States  wide  discretion 
as  to  what  services  to  provide  as  long  as  services 
meet  certain  general  goals,  such  as  preventing  or  re¬ 
ducing  inappropriate  institutional  care.  In  FY  1988,  45 
States  planned  to  provide  a  range  of  nonmedical 
home-based  services  to  individuals  and  families  under 
their  State  SSBG  plans.9  Home-based  services  are  de¬ 
fined  as  homemaker,  chore,  home  health,  companion¬ 
ship,  and  home  maintenance.  There  are  no  Federal 
requirements  related  to  standards  for  home-based  care 
provided  with  SSBG  funds. 

Older  Americans  Act — Under  the  Older  Americans 
Act,  each  State  agency  on  aging  receives  funds  for 
home  care  services.10  Funds  are  administered  in  local 
communities  by  area  agencies  on  aging.  As  is  the  case 
under  the  SSBG,  title  III  provides  funding  for 
nonmedical  home  care  services,  including  home¬ 
maker,  home  health  aide,  and  chore  services,  visiting 
and  telephone  reassurance,  and  respite  care  for  family 
caretakers.  Although  the  law  does  not  contain  specific 


9  This  information  was  provided  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  the 
Office  of  Human  Development  Services  staff.  Under  provisions  of  the  SSBG, 
States  are  required  to  submit  to  HHS  information  on  the  intended  use  of 
funds  for  the  upcoming  fiscal  year. 

10  Funds  are  provided  to  States  under  title  III— B  of  the  Older  Americans 
Act  for  a  broad  range  of  social  services.  Under  title  III— B  home  care  services 
are  considered  a  priority  service.  State  agencies  are  required  to  specify  what 
proportion  of  title  III— B  funds  are  to  be  spent  on  home  care  services  by  each 
local  area  agency  on  aging.  In  addition  to  the  authority  under  title  III— B,  the 
1987  amendments  to  the  Act  created  a  separate  authorization  of  funds  for  in- 
home  services  for  the  frail  elderly  under  a  new  title  III-D.  Each  State  re¬ 
ceives  a  separate  allotment  of  funds  for  such  services. 


165 


requirements  related  to  quality  of  home  care  services, 
such  as  the  development,  monitoring,  or  enforcement 
of  standards  of  care,  both  title  III  law  and  regulations 
contain  general  requirements  that  State  and  area  agen¬ 
cies  are  to  conduct  periodic  evaluation  of  services 
provided  under  State  and  area  plans  on  aging.  In 
keeping  with  the  advocacy  role  intended  for  area 
agencies  on  aging,  the  law  specifically  charges  area 
agencies  with  responsibilities  for  monitoring  service 
programs  affecting  the  elderly.  In  addition,  under  the 
Federal  statute  area  agencies  are  responsible  for  co¬ 
ordinating  services  provided  under  title  III  with  other 
service  providers. 

In  addition  to  the  mandate  under  title  III  of  the 
Older  Americans  Act,  some  activity  with  respect  to 
home  care  quality  assurance  has  been  undertaken 
under  the  title  IV  research  and  demonstration  author¬ 
ity.  In  FY  1988  AoA  funded  12  States  to  carry  out  a 
variety  of  quality  assurance  projects. 1 1 


State  Requirements 

As  indicated  above,  Medicaid  requires  States  to  cer¬ 
tify  Medicaid-funded  home  health  care  providers 
using  criteria  based  on  the  Medicare  requirements  for 
participation.  Beyond  Federal  certification,  State  re¬ 
quirements  aimed  at  quality  of  home  care  vary 
widely.  The  most  common  form  of  State  regulatory 
action  is  State  licensure  policies  requiring  agencies 
providing  home  health  care  services  to  meet  certain 
standards  before  being  authorized  to  operate  in  the 
State.  According  to  the  NAHC,  39  States  have  licen¬ 
sure  requirements  for  home  health  care  agencies.12 
Relatively  few  States  apply  licensing  requirements 
to  agencies  which  provide  nonmedical  home  care 
services. 

A  recent  DHHS-sponsored  study,  Review  of  State 
Quality  Assurance  Programs  for  Home  Care  (April 
1989),  surveyed  19  States  to  identify  their  home  care 
quality  assurance  mechanisms.  The  study  looked  at 
standard  setting  and  monitoring  and  enforcement  pro¬ 


1 1  Projects  are  listed  in  Compendium  of  Active  Grants  Under  Title  IV  of  the 
Older  Americans  Act.  Nov.  1988.  Also,  the  1987  amendments  to  the  Older 
Americans  Act  authorized  the  Commissioner  on  Aging  to  demonstrate  and 
evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  consumer  protection  for  older  persons  who  re¬ 
ceive  publicly  funded  home  care  services.  These  projects  are  to  provide 
consumer  protection  through  State  and  local  ombudsman,  legal  assistance 
agencies,  and  may  include  the  use  of  hotlines,  complaint  investigation,  and 
advocacy.  FY  1989  and  FY  1990  funding  for  these  projects  is  subject  to  a 
trigger  (no  funds  may  be  appropriated  unless  funding  for  the  Act  increases 
by  5  percent  over  the  FY  1987  level).  No  funding  was  appropriated  in  FY 
1989. 

1 2  National  Association  for  Home  Care,  Home  Care.  State  Licensure  and 
Certificate  of  Need  (March  1989).  This  includes  the  number  of  States  that  li¬ 
cense  Medicare  certified  as  well  as  non-Medicare  certified  home  health  agen¬ 
cies.  According  to  this  analysis,  there  are  seven  States  which  apply  licensure 
policies  to  Medicare  certified  providers,  but  which  do  not  license  non-Medi- 
care  certified  providers.  In  addition,  two  States  license  non-Medicare  certi¬ 
fied  agencies  but  do  not  license  certified  providers. 


cedures  and  found  great  variation  in  quality  assur¬ 
ance  methods  employed  as  well  as  implementation 
strategies. 

The  study  identified  the  following  standards  used 
by  one  or  more  States  to  measure  or  assess  quality:  (1) 
training  requirements  for  home  care  workers,  such  as 
specification  of  number  of  hours  of  required  training, 
competency  testing,  and/or  prescribed  curriculum;  (2) 
certification  or  registration  of  workers  who  meet  cer¬ 
tain  State-prescribed  training  programs;  (3)  licensure 
of  providers;  (4)  accreditation  of  providers  according 
to  criteria  developed  by  an  independent  accreditation 
body  such  as  the  Joint  Commission  on  Accreditation 
of  Healthcare  Organizations,  the  National  League  for 
Nursing,  or  the  National  HomeCaring  Council;  (5) 
requirements  for  State  approval  of  agencies  or  pro¬ 
viders  (usually  applied  to  nonmedical  home  care  pro¬ 
viders);  (6)  establishment  of  client  bill  of  rights;  (7) 
requirements  for  a  code  of  ethics  for  aides;  (8)  crimi¬ 
nal  record  checks  on  workers;  and  (9)  requirements 
for  minimum  pay  levels  for  workers.  The  most  fre¬ 
quently  reported  standards  used  by  the  States  in  this 
survey  were  training  requirements  for  workers  and  li¬ 
censure  of  providers  (the  latter  usually  applies  to 
home  health  agencies  rather  than  nonmedical  home 
care  providers).  Other  standards  were  used  less 
frequently. 

The  study  also  identified  a  number  of  monitoring 
mechanisms  used  by  States  to  determine  compliance 
with  standards,  and  found  considerable  variation 
among  methods  used.  For  example,  while  the  most 
frequent  means  of  monitoring  was  worker  supervision, 
requirements  ranged  from  minimum  to  frequent  super¬ 
vision.  Provider  surveys  are  universally  used  to  moni¬ 
tor  home  health  agencies  and  are  tied  to  Medicaid 
certification,  State  licensing  and  accreditation  proce¬ 
dures.  In  some  cases  provider  surveys  are  also  used 
for  monitoring  nonmedical  home  care  services.  Other 
common  monitoring  mechanisms  were  case  manage¬ 
ment  procedures  (more  common  with  nonmedical 
home  care  providers)  and  contract  reviews.  Few  pro¬ 
grams  monitored  the  impact  of  services  on  clients. 

The  survey  found  that  the  most  frequently  used  en¬ 
forcement  mechanism  used  by  States  were  economic 
penalties,  such  as  cancellation,  denial,  or  suspension  of 
provider  contracts,  or  withholding  of  funds.  Other 
economic  penalties  included  reassigning  clients  to 
competing  providers,  withholding  referrals,  and  limit¬ 
ing  the  extent  of  a  provider’s  service  delivery  (e.g., 
limiting  services  to  specified  geographic  areas  or  the 
type  of  service  that  may  be  provided  by  individual 
providers).  Economic  penalties  were  found  to  be  in¬ 
fluenced  by  availability  of  providers. 


166 


Quality  assurance  mechanisms  also  vary  according 
to  funding  source.  The  survey  found  that  health  and 
medically  related  home  care  programs  funded  by 
Medicaid  had  more  formal  quality  assurance  require¬ 
ments  than  programs  funded  by  the  SSBG  or  the 
Older  Americans  Act.  This  is  because  Medicaid  home 
health  providers  are  required  to  meet  the  Medicare 
conditions  of  participation  for  home  health  services. 
Both  the  SSBG-  and  Older  Americans  Act-funded 
programs  frequently  had  worker  training  requirements 
although  great  variation  existed  in  the  type  of  training 
requirements.  Both  SSBG  and  Older  Americans  Act 
programs  relied  on  worker  supervision  and  case  man¬ 
agement  techniques  to  monitor  services  although 
again  the  study  found  great  variation  in  the  way  in 
which  such  monitoring  is  carried  out.  Both  programs 
also  relied  on  economic  sanctions  as  means  to  enforce 
standards. 

Attachment  A  presents  a  detailed  listing  of  State 
quality  assurance  mechanisms  used  by  States  for  home 
care  programs  funded  under  Medicaid’s  personal  care 
option  and  2176  waiver  programs  and  the  SSBG  and 
Older  Americans  Act  programs. 

Another  means  of  monitoring  home  care  services 
used  by  a  few  States  is  the  Older  Americans  Act 
long-term  care  ombudsman  program.  According  to 
the  HHS  study  on  home  care  quality  assurance,  five 
States  have  a  specific  legislative  mandate  to  expand 
the  ombudsman  program  to  home  care  (Wisconsin, 
Wyoming,  Maine,  Virginia,  and  Minnesota).  In  an¬ 
other  State  (New  York)  some  local  ombudsmen 
handle  complaints  of  some  home  care  recipients.  In 
none  of  these  States  are  the  programs  fully  oper¬ 
ational  statewide.  Although  some  officials  believe  that 
the  ombudsman  concept  can  be  useful  in  assuring 
quality  of  care,  the  HHS  report  indicated  that  they  do 
not  see  it  as  a  major  quality  assurance  tool.  Reasons 
for  this  include  the  fact  that  the  ombudsman  role  is  a 
problem-solving  tool  for  individuals  and  not  a  moni¬ 
toring  tool;  funding  for  the  ombudsman  program  is 
limited  and  the  program  is  already  overburdened  with 
complaint  resolution  for  residents  of  facilities;  and  re¬ 
cipients  of  home  care  services  may  be  resistant  to 
filing  complaints  against  a  home  care  provider  if  their 
only  alternative  is  nursing  home  placement.13 


Voluntary  Organizations 

If  they  wish  to  do  so,  home  care  providers  may 
voluntarily  obtain  accreditation  from  organizations 
that  survey  providers  to  determine  whether  they  meet 

13  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  Review  of  State  Quality, 
Assurance  Programs  for  Home  Care,  III—  1  through  III— 7. 


standards  for  providing  quality  care,  as  defined  by 
the  accrediting  organization.  With  the  assistance  of 
professionals  in  the  field,  three  national  organiza¬ 
tions  have  established  such  standards  for  home  care 
providers. 

The  National  Homecaring  Council  (NHCC)  has  es¬ 
tablished  recommended  standards  and  an  accreditation 
program  for  homemaker/home  health  aide  services. 
This  accreditation  program  involves  peer  review  of 
homemaker/home  health  aides  services  only.  The 
standards  cover  four  components  for  the  admin¬ 
istration  of  homemaker/home  health  aide  services,  in¬ 
cluding  structure  of  the  agency,  staffing,  services 
provided,  and  community  activities.  The  accreditation 
program  includes  agency  self-study  and  an  on-site 
peer  review  by  Council  staff  every  3  years.  Accord¬ 
ing  to  NHCC,  there  are  currently  about  100  home¬ 
maker/home  health  aide  providers  which  have  chosen 
to  be  part  of  this  accreditation  process,  with  about  40 
additional  agencies  in  the  pipeline.  Most  of  the  agen¬ 
cies  covered  by  this  accreditation  process  provide 
only  homemaker/home  health  aide  services,  with  a 
few  also  providing  home  health  care  services.14 

The  Joint  Commission  on  Accreditation  of 
Healthcare  Organizations  (JCAHO)  also  has  an  ac¬ 
creditation  program  for  a  variety  of  organizations 
providing  home  care  services. 15  JCAHO  accredits 
four  different  kinds  of  home  care  providers:  home 
health  agencies;  durable  medical  equipment  companies 
providing  equipment  in  the  home;  infusion  therapy 
companies  providing  a  variety  of  intravenous  services; 
and  private  duty  home  care  agencies  that  provide 
nursing  services  as  well  as  homemaker,  home  health 
aide,  and  companion  services.  JCAHO  has  accredited 
about  500  agencies  and  organizations.  Accreditation 
standards  for  these  organizations  vary  according  to 
the  particular  service  being  provided  by  the  organiza¬ 
tion.  Accreditation  surveys  are  announced  in  advance 
and  include  on-site  observations  of  the  organization  as 
well  as  visits  to  clients’  homes.  If  it  is  found  to  be  in 
substantial  compliance  with  Joint  Commission  stand¬ 
ards,  an  organization  is  awarded  accreditation  for  3 
years  and  not  resurveyed  until  the  end  of  its  accredi¬ 
tation  cycle  (although  JCAHO  may  conduct  interim 
surveys  for  organizations  accredited  with  certain 
kinds  of  problems). 

The  National  League  for  Nursing  (NLN)  also  ac¬ 
credits  a  variety  of  home  care  programs,  including 
home  health  agencies,  private  duty  home  care  agen- 


1 4  This  information  was  obtained  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  NHCC 
on  Aug.  18,  1989. 

15  This  information  was  obtained  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  JCAHO 
on  Aug.  21,  1989,  and  from  JCAHO’s  1988  Standards  for  the  Accreditation  of 
Home  Care. 


167 


cies,  public  health  nursing  programs  (components  of 
local  departments  of  health),  community  nursing  cen¬ 
ters,  infusion  therapy  companies,  home  medical  equip¬ 
ment  companies,  and  home  pharmacy  services.16 
NLN  has  accredited  about  200  programs.  Accredita¬ 
tion  standards  include  certain  core  standards  that  are 
applied  to  all  agencies,  as  well  as  program  specific 
standards  that  are  applied  to  particular  services.  Sur¬ 
veys  to  determine  compliance  with  standards  include 
both  on-site  observation  of  the  agency  and  visits  to 
the  homes  of  clients.  For  those  agencies  found  to 
meet  NLN  standards,  accreditation  lasts  for  3  years. 
NLN  is  currently  implementing  a  new  survey  process 
for  accreditation.  During  the  3-year  accreditation 
cycle  for  a  particular  agency,  NLN  will  conduct  un¬ 
announced  annual  site  visits.  These  site  visits  will  in¬ 
clude  visits  to  the  home  and  a  survey  of  client 
satisfaction. 


Adult  Day  Care 

Generally,  adult  day  care  programs  provide  a 
variety  of  health  and  social  services  to  persons  with 
physical,  emotional,  or  mental  impairments  in  a  group 
setting  on  a  part-time  basis.  There  is  no  federally  rec¬ 
ognized  definition  of  day  care.17  Services  which  may 
be  included  in  a  day  care  program  are:  assessment  of 
client  needs;  health  monitoring;  skilled  nursing 
services;  physical,  occupational,  and  speech  therapies; 
personal  care;  nutritional  services;  counseling;  and 
transportation.  Depending  upon  the  needs  of  partici¬ 
pants,  care  provided  may  range  from  active  rehabilita¬ 
tion  in  a  post-acute  phase  of  an  illness  to  the  provision 
of  one  or  more  health  or  health-related  social 
services. 

It  is  estimated  that  there  may  be  between  2,100- 
2,600  adult  day  care  programs. 18  Programs  are  sup¬ 
ported  primarily  through  the  Medicaid,  SSBG,  and 
Older  Americans  Act  programs,  and  through  State 
and  private  funds.  States  have  great  flexibility  in  de¬ 
fining  standards,  and  monitoring  and  assuring  compli¬ 
ance  with  standards. 

A  distinction  is  made  between  a  health  model  and  a 
social  model  for  adult  day  care  programs.  Generally 


1 6  This  information  was  obtained  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  NLN 
on  Aug.  22,  1989. 

17  In  1984,  as  part  of  a  project  to  develop  national  standards  for  adult  day 
care,  the  National  Institute  on  Adult  Daycare  (NIAD)  of  the  National  Coun¬ 
cil  on  Aging  (NCOA)  defined  the  service  in  part  as  follows:  Adult  day  care 
is  a  community-based  group  program  designed  to  meet  the  needs  of  function¬ 
ally  impaired  adults  through  an  individual  plan  of  care.  It  is  a  structured, 
comprehensive  program  that  provides  a  variety  of  health,  social,  and  related 
support  services  in  a  protective  setting  during  any  part  of  a  day  but  less  than 
24-hour  care. 

1 8  This  is  an  unofficial  estimate  based  on  data  being  obtained  by  re¬ 
searchers  at  the  University  of  California,  San  Francisco  under  contract  with 
HCFA. 


the  combination  of  health  and  social  services  offered, 
the  kinds  of  participants  served,  and  the  kinds  and 
number  of  staff  involved  in  the  program  distinguish 
models  from  one  another.  Standards  applicable  to  the 
varying  models  of  day  care  may  vary,  depending  on 
the  model  of  day  care  funded.  For  example,  a  health- 
oriented  day  care  program  may  be  subject  to  specific 
nurse  staffing  standards,  as  compared  to  a  social  serv¬ 
ices  model  which  would  emphasize  social  services 
staff. 


Federal  Requirements 

Medicaid — States  may  cover  adult  day  care  services 
under  two  provisions  of  the  Medicaid  program:  as  an 
optional  service  under  their  State  Medicaid  plans 
(under  the  clinic  services  and  rehabilitative  services 
options)  or  as  part  of  their  2176  home  and  commu¬ 
nity-based  waiver  programs.  In  addition,  to  the  extent 
that  other  covered  Medicaid  services  are  provided  in 
an  adult  day  care  setting  (e.g.,  physician  services), 
they  may  be  covered  under  the  program.  In  general, 
Medicaid  allows  States  to  follow  their  own  proce¬ 
dures  for  certifying  noninstitutional  providers.  Medi¬ 
caid  regulations  contain  general  requirements  that 
each  State  Medicaid  plan  include  a  description  of  the 
methods  and  standards  used  to  assure  that  covered 
services  are  of  high  quality.  There  are  no  Federal 
standards  or  monitoring  or  enforcement  mechanisms 
specifically  applicable  to  adult  day  care  centers 
funded  under  Medicaid. 

Adult  day  care  programs  funded  under  the  2176 
waiver  authority  must  meet  the  requirements  de¬ 
scribed  above  in  the  discussion  of  quality  assurance 
requirements  for  2176  services. 

Other  Federal  Programs — In  FY  1988,  23  States 
planned  to  use  SSBG  funds  to  support  adult  day  care 
services.19  There  are  no  Federal  requirements  related 
to  standards  for  adult  day  care  services  provided  with 
SSBG  funds. 

State  agencies  on  aging  may  use  funds  authorized 
under  title  III  of  the  Older  Americans  Act  funds  to 
support  adult  day  care  services.  As  in  the  case  with 
home  care  services  provided  under  the  Older  Ameri¬ 
cans  Act  discussed  above,  there  are  no  specific  Fed¬ 
eral  quality  assurance  requirements  with  respect  to 
adult  day  care  programs  funded  under  the  Older 
Americans  Act.  Title  III  law  and  regulations  contain 
general  requirements  that  State  and  area  agencies  are 

1 9  This  information  was  obtained  in  a  telephone  conversation  with  the 
Office  of  Human  Development  Services  staff. 


168 


to  conduct  periodic  evaluation  of  services  provided 
under  State  and  area  plans  on  aging. 


State  Requirements 

Very  little  evaluative  data  are  available  on  the 
extent  to  which  States  have  established  standards  and 
procedures  for  assuring  the  quality  of  adult  day  care. 
Two  studies  have  collected  information  on  standard 
setting.  According  to  a  recent  survey  of  State  regula¬ 
tion  of  adult  day  care  (specifically  focusing  on  day 
care  centers  in  the  health  model)  by  the  Intergovern¬ 
mental  Health  Policy  Project,  35  States  have  stand¬ 
ards  for  day  care  facilities.20  The  survey  reviewed 
whether  States  had  requirements  for  licensure  of  fa¬ 
cilities,  certification  of  facilities,  or  standards  used  to 
assess  the  eligibility  of  centers  for  particular  sources 
of  funding.  It  found  that  22  States  had  licensure  re¬ 
quirements.  In  addition,  13  States  used  standards  to 
certify  facilities  or  to  otherwise  determine  a  facility’s 
eligibility  for  a  particular  funding  source.21  However, 
the  number  and  type  of  standards  used  by  States 
varied  significantly.  For  example,  of  the  22  States 
which  had  licensure  requirements,  nine  States  had  op¬ 
tional  or  unspecified  requirements  for  regular  on-site 
nursing  supervision  of  participants.  While  most  States 
specified  minimum  staff/participant  ratios,  some  speci¬ 
fied  only  that  the  program  have  “sufficient  staff.” 

The  study  indicated  that  licensure  or  certification 
may  not  assure  uniformity  of  day  care  services  in  a 
State;  for  example,  some  States  may  license  or  certify 
only  the  social  day  care  model  while  others  may  li¬ 
cense  or  certify  both  the  social  and  health  care  model. 
While  the  study  did  not  go  into  depth  about  monitor¬ 
ing  and  enforcement  of  standards,  it  concluded  that 
oversight  of  standards  was  minimal. 

A  survey  of  day  care  facilities  completed  by  NIAD 
in  1986  reported  on  the  extent  to  which  facilities  were 
either  licensed  or  certified.22  Of  a  total  number  of 
about  800  responses  by  facilities  to  a  question  about 
licensing,  57  percent  of  the  facilities  (459)  indicated 
that  they  had  at  least  one  license.  Of  about  670  re¬ 
sponses  as  to  certification  of  centers,  about  half  were 
not  certified. 


*°  Intergovernmental  Health  Policy  Project,  State  Regulation  of  Adult  Day- 
Health  Care  Facilities  (May  1989). 

21  Seven  States  used  standards  for  certification  of  facilities  for  reimburse¬ 

ment.  usually  Medicaid.  .Another  sis  States  were  found  to  use  standards  to 
determine  eligibility  for  particular  funding  sources,  but  these  standards  were 
generally  less  stringent  than  certification  standards.  In  addition,  certification 
procedures  generally  included  on-site  compliance  review.  __ 

22  Sl.\D~  Adult  Day  Care  in  America :  Summary  of  a  Sational  Survey  (Oc¬ 
tober  1986).  Licensure  usually  signifies  that  a  facility  has  met  a  certain  de¬ 
fined  set  of  standards.  Certification  signifies  that  a  facility  meets  certain 
standards  making  it  eligible  for  reimbursement  of  specific  program  funds. 


The  Medicare  Catastrophic  Coverage  Act  of  1988 
requires  HHS  to  conduct  a  study  of  adult  day  health 
services.  Among  other  things,  the  study  is  to  collect 
information  on  the  characteristics  of  entities  providing 
services  and  licensure,  certification,  and  other  quality 
standards  that  are  applied  to  providers.  The  Secretary 
of  HHS  is  required  to  make  recommendations  con¬ 
cerning  appropriate  standards  for  coverage  of  adult 
day  care  services  under  Medicare,  including  qualifica¬ 
tions  of  providers.  The  study  is  to  be  completed  by 
July  1,  1990. 


Voluntary’  Organizations 

Adult  day  programs  have  experienced  tremendous 
growth  since  the  program  concept  was  the  subject  of 
research  and  demonstration  initiatives  supported  by 
DHHS  in  the  early  1970s.  In  order  to  provide  assist¬ 
ance  to  States  in  this  developing  field,  the  National 
Institute  on  Adult  Day  Care  (NIAD)  of  the  National 
Council  on  Aging  (NCOA)  published  national  stand¬ 
ards  for  adult  day  care  in  1984.  The  purpose  of  the 
standards  was  to  serve  as  guidelines  for  the  implemen¬ 
tation  of  quality  centers  and  to  provide  national  direc¬ 
tion  for  policy  formation  related  to  centers.  The 
standards  address  issues  related  to  target  population, 
administrative  structure  and  organization,  staffing,  es¬ 
sential  services,  facility,  and  evaluation.23 

These  standards  are  used  as  a  model  for  the  devel¬ 
opment  and  implementation  of  day  care  programs. 
NIAD  does  not  currently  accredit  any  individual  day 
care  programs.  There  has  been  some  interest  on  the 
part  of  day  care  advocates  to  stimulate  a  national  ac¬ 
creditation  process. 


Board  and  Care  Facilities 

Board  and  care  is  a  generic  term  referring  to  a 
wide  range  of  community-based  nonmedical  residen¬ 
tial  care  facilities  that  provide  room,  board,  and  pro¬ 
tective  oversight  to  the  elderly  and  disabled.  Various 
terms  may  be  used  to  describe  this  service,  including 
domiciliary  homes,  adult  care  homes,  foster  care 
homes,  and  personal  care  homes.  In  addition  to  room 
and  board,  residents  of  such  homes  may  receive  assist¬ 
ance  with  activities  of  daily  living  as  well  as  other  as¬ 
sistance,  such  as  supervision  of  medication  and  money 
management. 


22  National  Council  on  the  Aging.  Inc.,  National  Institute  on  Adult 
Daycare.  Standards  for  Adult  Day  Care  (fall  1984). 


169 


A  recent  review  of  board  and  care  by  the  General 
Accounting  Office  (GAO)  indicated  that  the  total 
number  of  board  and  care  homes  is  unknown.24  A 
1987  survey  of  board  and  care  indicated  that  there 
were  about  41,000  licensed  homes  with  about  563,000 
beds.  GAO  indicated  that  this  represents  an  un¬ 
dercount  since  there  is  an  unknown  number  of  unli¬ 
censed  facilities.  An  analysis  completed  by  the  House 
Select  Committee  on  Aging  estimated  that  number  of 
unlicensed  homes  may  be  over  28,000.  This  analysis 
estimated  that  licensed  and  unlicensed  homes  serve 
over  1  million  elderly  and  disabled  persons.25 

Board  and  care  homes  receive  funding  for  care 
they  provide  directly  from  residents  who  pay  opera¬ 
tors  with  income  received  through  social  security, 
Federal  and  State  payments  under  SSI  program,  and 
other  income.  However,  the  GAO  analysis  indicated 
that  the  board  and  home  care  population  includes 
many  who  rely  primarily  on  SSI  income  to  pay  for 
their  care.  A  1983  survey  of  2,933  residents  of  li¬ 
censed  and  unlicensed  board  and  care  homes  in  7 
States  indicated  that  mentally  retarded  and  mentally 
ill  residents  were  more  likely  to  receive  SSI  than  el¬ 
derly  residents.  Elderly  persons  were  more  likely  than 
the  other  groups  to  receive  social  security  income.26 

Assuring  quality  of  care  in  board  and  care  settings 
has  proven  difficult  in  part  due  to  the  lack  of  national 
standards  and  ineffective  monitoring  of  facilities.  De¬ 
spite  oversight  responsibilities  cited  in  Federal  law 
discussed  below,  regulatory  responsibility  resides  with 
States.  GAO  and  the  House  Select  Committee  on 
Aging  have  cited  serious  problems  in  quality  of  care 
and  resident  abuse.27 


Federal  Requirements 

Supplemental  Security  Income  Program — The  only 
major  Federal  requirement  related  to  quality  assur¬ 
ance  for  board  and  care  facilities  is  found  under  SSI 
program  requirements.  Section  1616(e)  of  the  Social 
Security  Act  (otherwise  referred  to  as  the  Keys 
amendment  after  its  author)  requires  States  to  estab¬ 
lish,  maintain,  and  enforce  standards  for  group  living 
arrangements  in  which  a  significant  number  of  SSI  re¬ 
cipients  reside.  Standards  must  be  appropriate  to  the 
needs  of  recipients  and  the  type  of  facility  and  cover 
areas  such  as  admission  policies,  safety,  sanitation,  and 


24  General  Accounting  Office,  Board  and  Care.  Insufficient  Assurances  That 
Residents'  Needs  Are  Identified  and  Met  (GAO/HRD,  February  1989).  (Here¬ 
after  cited  as  Board  and  Care.) 

25  U.S.  Congress,  House  Select  Committee  on  Aging,  Board  and  Care 
Homes  in  America:  A  National  Tragedy,  House  Report  No.  101-711,  101st 
Cong.,  1st  sess.,  March  1989,  9.  (Hereafter  cited  as  Board  and  Care  Homes  in 
America.) 

26  Board  and  Care,  15. 

27  See  footnotes  24  and  25  for  references. 


protection  of  civil  rights.  The  State  is  further  required 
to  annually  certify  to  the  Secretary  of  HHS  compli¬ 
ance  with  these  provisions.  The  law  stipulates  that 
SSI  payments  to  individuals  will  be  reduced  if  board 
and  care  facilities  are  not  approved  according  to  the 
State  standards. 

Many  have  concluded  that  the  Keys  amendment  is 
unenforceable.  For  example,  neither  the  law  nor  Fed¬ 
eral  regulations  define  what  is  a  “significant  number” 
of  SSI  recipients.  In  addition,  the  sanction  the  law  im¬ 
poses  for  noncompliance  by  States  penalizes  SSI  re¬ 
cipients.  The  sanction  is  not  directed  at  penalizing 
States  who  do  not  approve  facilities  according  to  es¬ 
tablished  standards,  or  board  and  care  operators  who 
may  be  offering  substandard  care. 

GAO  has  indicated  that  HHS  review  of  State  com¬ 
pliance  with  the  Keys  amendment  is  minimal.  The 
Office  of  Human  Development  Services  (OHDS), 
which  has  been  given  responsibility  for  oversight  of 
State  compliance,  commits  one-eighth  of  one  person’s 
time  to  reviewing  State  certifications  and  summaries 
of  standards.28 

Older  Americans  Act — As  discussed  earlier  under 
Federal  nursing  home  requirements,  the  Older  Ameri¬ 
cans  Act  requires  that  the  ombudsman  program  inves¬ 
tigate  and  resolve  complaints  of  residents  of  board 
and  care  facilities  and  other  adult  care  homes.  There 
is  little  evaluative  data  on  the  impact  of  the  ombuds¬ 
man  program  on  the  board  and  care  industry. 

GAO  reported  that  AoA’s  role  in  the  ombudsman 
oversight  of  board  and  care  is  limited  and  that  AoA 
allows  great  discretion  to  States  in  implementation  of 
the  program.  The  1987  amendments  to  the  Older 
Americans  Act  required  that  the  Commissioner  on 
Aging  conduct  a  study  of  the  impact  of  the  ombuds¬ 
man  program  on  board  and  care  facilities  and  other 
similar  adult  care  homes.  The  study  is  to  be  submitted 
to  Congress  by  December  31,  1989. 


State  Requirements 

The  most  common  means  by  which  States  oversee 
care  provided  in  board  and  care  facilities  are  licensing 
requirements  and  oversight  responsibilities  of  the 
State  ombudsman  program  authorized  under  the 
Older  Americans  Act.  Both  the  GAO  report  and  the 
House  Select  Committee  on  Aging  analysis  indicated 
that  neither  of  these  have  been  effective  in  assuring 
quality  of  care  and  preventing  abuse  of  residents. 


28  Board  and  Care,  35. 


170 


The  House  Select  Committee  on  Aging  survey 
found  that  all  but  10  States  have  licensing  require¬ 
ments  which  vary  significantly  by  State.  Enforcement 
of  licensing  requirements  also  varies  greatly.  The 
large  estimated  number  of  unlicensed  homes  indicates 
that  a  licensure  requirement  alone  is  insufficient  in 
order  to  assure  quality  and  that  adequate  staff  to  en¬ 
force  licensure  requirements  is  also  necessary. 

State  licensure  requirements  generally  establish  cri¬ 
teria  for  the  minimum  number  of  residents  per  home, 
ranging  from  1  to  21  residents,  and  specify  the  types 
of  services  to  be  provided  residents.  GAO  indicated 
in  its  review  of  six  State  licensure  policies  that  most 
requirements  focus  on  physical  plant;  only  one  State 
included  social  evaluations  through  resident  inter¬ 
views.  GAO  further  indicated  that  States  have  diffi¬ 
culty  in  imposing  sanctions  against  poor  quality 
homes.  Sanctions  available  in  the  six  States  were  au¬ 
thority  to  close  homes  or  suspend  licenses.  Three 
States  imposed  intermediate  sanctions,  such  as  fmes  or 
receivership.  Two  States  indicated  that  imposition  of 
fmes  was  not  an  effective  deterrent  to  substandard 
care. 

Board  and  care  facilities  were  included  under  the 
oversight  responsibilities  of  State  ombudsman  pro¬ 
grams  in  the  1981  amendments  to  the  Older  Ameri¬ 
cans  Act.  State  agencies  on  aging  are  required  to 
assure  that  ombudsmen  have  access  to  facilities  and 
patient  records.  An  analysis  of  38  State  statutes  per¬ 
taining  to  the  ombudsman  program  completed  by  the 
National  Association  of  State  Units  on  Aging 
(NASUA)  in  1987  found  24  statutes  specifically  au¬ 
thorized  ombudsman  access  to  board  and  care  facili¬ 
ties  or  personal  care  homes.29  This  number  is  slightly 
lower  than  the  number  of  States  reporting  that  they 
had  oversight  authority  for  such  facilities  in  the 
House  Select  Committee  on  Aging  analysis.  That 


29  National  Association  of  State  Units  on  Aging,  5. 


study  found  that  43  States  had  oversight  over  board 
and  care  homes. 

Because  of  the  large  estimated  number  of  licensed 
and  unlicensed  homes,  it  may  be  difficult  for  ombuds¬ 
men  to  investigate  and  resolve  complaints  from  board 
and  care  residents.  The  House  Select  Committee  on 
Aging  survey  of  States  indicated  that  investigation  of 
complaints  from  board  and  care  residents  did  not 
appear  to  be  a  priority  for  ombudsmen.  As  a  national 
average  only  about  16  percent  of  ombudsman  efforts 
were  devoted  to  handling  complaints  from  board  and 
care  residents.  Only  two  States  indicated  that  the  om¬ 
budsman  program  has  staff  who  work  exclusively  on 
board  and  care  homes.  Only  17  State  ombudsmen 
queried  indicated  that  the  State  system  for  regulating 
board  and  care  homes  is  adequate.30  GAO  also  con¬ 
cluded  that  the  ombudsman  efforts  in  board  and  care 
facilities  are  limited. 


Voluntary  Organizations 

In  1984  the  American  Bar  Association  (ABA), 
under  a  grant  from  OHDS,  published  recommended 
standards  for  board  and  care  homes,  A  Model  Act 
Regulating  Board  and  Care  Homes:  Guidelines  for 
States.  In  part,  the  purpose  of  the  guidelines  was  to 
develop  a  statutory  scheme  for  licensing  board  and 
care  homes  to  ensure  a  safe  and  decent  environment 
for  the  elderly  and  disabled  and  to  establish  standards 
for  regulating  such  homes.  Among  other  things,  the 
model  act  covers  the  following  items:  definition  of 
board  and  care  homes;  recommended  size  limitations; 
delegation  of  rulemaking,  adjudicative,  and  investiga¬ 
tive  authorities;  resident  plan  of  care  requirements; 
admission  policies;  resident  rights;  staffing  and  physi¬ 
cal  environment  requirements;  licensure  requirements; 
procedures  for  inspections  and  investigation  of  homes; 
and  sanctions  and  penalties. 


30  Board  and  Care  Homes  in  America,  146,  160,  and  179. 


171 


■ 


DUE  PROCESS:  REVIEW  AND  APPEAL  PROCEDURES 

IN  LONG-TERM  CARE 


Jane  Handler  Yurow  * 


EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 

The  United  States  Constitution  requires  federally  fi¬ 
nanced  or  administered  benefit  programs  (benefit  pro¬ 
grams)  to  provide  for  review  and  appeal  of  decisions 
adverse  to  applicants,  beneficiaries  and  claimants 
(beneficiaries),  in  accordance  with  constitutional 
standards  of  due  process  of  law. 

A  new  federal  long-term  care  benefit  program 
(long-term  care  program)  will  need  to  include  review 
and  appeal  procedures  integral  to  and  appropriate  for 
the  goals  of  the  program  itself. 

The  review  and  appeal  procedures  in  existing  bene¬ 
fit  programs  demonstrate  the  complexity  of  the 
process  and  the  difficulties  in  integrating  program 
considerations  with  achieving  due  process  goals. 
Medicare,  Social  Security  Disability  Insurance  and 
Supplemental  Security  Income,  and  Department  of 
Veterans  Affairs  Disability  Compensation  and  Pension 
programs  provide  a  wealth  of  experience  on  which 
policymakers  can  draw  in  designing  a  review  and 
appeal  process  for  a  long-term  program. 

Although  many  policy  considerations  are  common 
to  benefit  programs  generally,  a  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  will  also  have  particular  characteristics  that  will 
influence  the  development  of  its  review  and  appeal 
procedures.  These  include: 

•  focus  on  chronic  as  well  as  acute  care  problems 

•  emphasis  on  provision  of  social  and  custodial 
services  rather  than  medical  care 

•  involvement  of  the  family  or  other  informal  care¬ 
takers  in  decisionmaking  about  appropriate  care 


*  Prepared  for  the  United  States  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Comprehensive 
Health  Care  (The  Pepper  Commission),  March  22,  1990. 


•  need  for  frequent  reassessment  of  care  plans  to 
respond  to  changing  service  needs 

•  the  central  role  of  the  case  manager,  with  loyal¬ 
ties  to  both  the  beneficiary  and  the  benefit  pro¬ 
gram,  in  developing  and  monitoring  care  plans 

Review  and  appeal  procedures  of  existing  benefit 
programs  are  too  complex  to  be  understood  by  most 
individuals.  A  long-term  care  program  might  establish 
simpler  procedures.  To  the  extent  possible,  these 
should  be  readily  understandable  to  physically  frail, 
mentally  ill  or  cognitively  impaired  individuals  or 
their  caretakers. 

Specific  lessons  that  can  be  drawn  from  the  experi¬ 
ence  of  existing  benefit  programs  and  their  implica¬ 
tions  for  a  long-term  care  program  follow. 

Type  of  benefit,  sources  of  financing  and  structure  of 
administration  of  benefit  programs. — Initial  determina¬ 
tions  as  to  eligibility  for  disability  benefits  with  peri¬ 
odic  payments  over  the  long  term  are  more  amenable 
to  due  process  review  than  determinations  as  to  pay¬ 
ment  for  acute  care  often  made  quickly  and  based  on 
inadequate  information.  A  long-term  care  program, 
addressing  both  acute  and  chronic  care  needs  in  the 
same  individual,  often  at  the  same  time,  requires 
procedures  sensitive  to  these  differing  program 
considerations. 

Benefit  programs  may  have  differing  due  process 
requirements  depending  on  their  source  of  financing 
and  type  of  administration — federal,  federal-state,  or 
federal-private.  Decisions  made  about  the  financing 
and  administration  of  the  long-term  care  program 
itself,  will  influence  the  design  of  its  review  and 
appeal  process. 


173 


Cost  containment  and  placing  risk. — Benefit  pro¬ 
grams  chronically  strapped  for  funds  sometimes  resort 
to  cost-cutting  shortcuts  in  their  review  and  appeal 
procedures.  Some  of  these  may  be  unconstitutional, 
particularly  if  they  result  in  depriving  beneficiaries  of 
access  to  these  procedures. 

In  a  long-term  care  program,  where  beneficiaries 
develop  relationships  of  trust  with  service  providers, 
cost  containment  measures  may  jeopardize  these  rela¬ 
tionships.  Where  providers  bear  the  risk  for  providing 
services  not  covered  by  a  benefit  program,  tension 
may  develop  between  the  provider  and  the  benefici¬ 
ary.  This  might  be  mitigated  if  the  benefit  program 
could  make  coverage  decisions  prior  to  the  provision 
of  services. 

Representation  by  lawyers  or  lay  advocates. — Repre¬ 
sentation  substantially  increases  the  likelihood  that 
beneficiaries  will  prevail  in  review  and  appeal  pro¬ 
ceedings.  Currently,  the  supply  of  trained  beneficiary 
representatives  is  far  short  of  the  demand  for  their 
services. 

Because  of  the  greatly  increased  number  of  public 
benefit  recipients  engendered  by  a  long-term  care 
program,  policymakers  need  to  consider  supporting 
programs  to  train  and  compensate  legal  and  lay  advo¬ 
cates  to  represent  beneficiaries  both  in  existing  and 
new  benefit  programs.  The  use  of  trained  lay  ad¬ 
vocates  supervised  by  attorneys  may  be  particularly 
effective. 

Adequate  notice  and  timely  decisions. — Inadequate  in¬ 
formation  in  notices  limits  beneficiaries  in  planning 
their  reviews  and  appeals.  Extended  time  periods  for 
decisionmaking  often  deprive  frail,  low-income  benefi¬ 
ciaries  of  basic  resources.  Benefit  programs  have  been 
criticized  on  both  counts.  A  long-term  care  program 
needs  to  insure  adequate  staff  and  resources  for  proc¬ 
essing  claims,  reviews  and  appeals  expeditiously.  The 
development  of  adequate  notice  language  is  usually 
evolutionary  in  a  benefit  program,  but  program 
administrators  should  be  sensitive  to  its  importance. 

Access  to  information  critical  to  decisions. — Benefit 
programs  generally  communicate  significant  informa¬ 
tion  relating  to  claims  decisions  through  limited  circu¬ 
lation  manuals,  directives  or  informal  contacts  rather 
than  publishing  them  in  the  Federal  Register.  This  re¬ 
stricts  beneficiaries’  access  to  information  that  may 
be  critical  to  effective  challenges  of  claims-related 
decisions. 

In  a  long-term  care  program,  many  decisions  will 
involve  subtle  changes  in  care  plans,  often  based  on 


informal  discussions  with  beneficiaries  or  caretakers. 
Administrators  of  this  type  of  program  have  as  much 
responsibility  as  in  more  formally  structured  benefit 
programs  to  provide  protesting  beneficiaries  with 
access  to  critical  information. 

Decisions  based  on  an  adequate  record. — Benefit  pro¬ 
grams  not  providing  the  resources  or  trained  staff 
necessary  to  develop  claims  files  containing  all 
relevant  evidence  are  countenancing  inadequate  deter¬ 
minations  of  initial  claims.  This  results  in:  unfair  deci¬ 
sions  that,  for  various  reasons,  are  never  appealed; 
delays  in  the  review  and  appeal  process  in  order  to 
collect  information  that  should  already  be  in  the 
claims  file;  or  requiring  appellate  level  adjudicators  to 
perform  functions  more  appropriately  performed  by 
others. 

In  a  long-term  care  program,  most  claims  informa¬ 
tion  will  not  be  medical,  and  so  conditions  may  be 
less  amenable  to  technical  description  or  precise  meas¬ 
urement  than  in  existing  benefit  programs.  Long-term 
care  programs  will  need  to  make  specific  provisions, 
including  setting  standards,  for  developing  and  moni¬ 
toring  adequate  claims  files. 

Verbal  statements  in  front  of  decisionmaker. — Experi¬ 
ence  of  benefit  programs  indicates  that  beneficiaries 
receiving  some  sort  of  face-to-face  meeting  with 
decisionmakers  are  significantly  more  likely  to  prevail 
than  those  receiving  paper-based  determinations.  But 
most  benefit  programs  discourage  face-to-face  meet¬ 
ings  with  decisionmakers  until  a  late  stage  of  the 
review  and  appeal  process. 

The  face-to-face  hearing  is  likely  to  be  particularly 
important  in  a  long-term  care  program  where  benefi¬ 
ciaries  and  caretakers  will  participate  with  case  man¬ 
agers — the  initial  decisionmakers — in  developing, 
monitoring  and  modifying  care  plans.  Telephone  hear¬ 
ings  may  not  be  an  effective  alternative  to  face-to-face 
reviews  for  the  long-term  care  population  because 
many  of  these  individuals  suffer  from  hearing  loss  or 
confusion. 

Hearing  prior  to  denial  or  termination  of  benefit. — 
When  termination  of  benefits  or  services  critical  to 
life  are  at  issue,  beneficiaries  may  be  entitled  to  some 
sort  of  prior  review  and  appeal.  Beneficiaries  of  a 
long-term  care  program  may  be  poor  or  mentally  or 
physically  vulnerable.  Premature  deprivation  of  sup¬ 
port,  particularly  for  those  beneficiaries  living  in  the 
community,  could  be  devastating.  Because  changes  in 
a  care  plan  are  more  likely  in  a  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  than  total  termination  from  the  program,  it  is 


174 


particularly  important  to  designate  the  types  of 
changes  that  require  prior  review. 

Decision  by  an  impartial  individual  or  panel.— Deci¬ 
sionmaking  independent  of  benefit  program  influence 
is  a  critical  goal  of  due  process.  Existing  benefit  pro¬ 
grams  have  sometimes  had  difficulty  in  achieving  this. 
Because  the  initial  claims-related  decisions  in  a  long¬ 
term  care  program  are  likely  to  be  made  by  case 
managers,  directly  or  indirectly  funded  by,  and  re¬ 
sponsible  to,  the  benefit  program,  long-term  care  leg¬ 
islation  needs  to  establish  objective  procedures  for 
review  and  appeal  of  these  initial  decisions. 


ORGANIZATION  OF  REPORT 

This  report  is  organized  as  follows: 

•  A  discussion  of  the  constitutional  and  legal  re¬ 
quirements  of  due  process  of  law  in  review  and 
appeal  of  claims  made  by  applicants  or  benefici¬ 
aries  of  federal  social  insurance  or  entitlement 
programs  (I— III) 

•  Brief  descriptions  of  the  claims  review  and 
appeal  procedures  of  specific  federally  financed 
health  care  or  disability  benefit  programs — Medi¬ 
care,  Social  Security,  and  Department  of  Veter¬ 
ans  Affairs  (IV) 

•  A  discussion  of  basic  program  considerations  that 
have  influenced  the  design  of  review  and  appeal 
procedures  in  benefit  programs,  and  of  the 
particular  characteristics  of  a  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  that  need  to  be  addressed  in  developing  ap¬ 
propriate  review  and  appeal  procedures  (V) 

•  An  analysis  of  the  experiences  of  Medicare, 
Social  Security,  and  the  Department  of  Veterans 
Affairs  in  developing  and  administering  review 
and  appeal  procedures  intended  to  comply  with 
constitutional  due  process  (VI) 

•  A  summary  of  significant  lessons  learned  from 
the  experiences  of  these  programs,  and  the  impli¬ 
cations  of  these  lessons  for  a  new,  federally  fi¬ 
nanced  long-term  care  program  (VII) 

•  A  review  of  selected  programs  providing  advo¬ 
cacy,  assistance,  information,  or  other  services 
that  assist  beneficiaries  of  federally  funded  benefit 
programs  effectively  to  assert  their  due  process 
rights,  with  a  view  toward  identifying  ways  to 
deliver  similar  services  to  beneficiaries  of  a  new 
federally  financed  long-term  care  program  (VIII) 


TABLE  OF  ACRONYMS 

ADL  — 

Activity  of  Daily  Living 

ALJ  — 

Administrative  Law  Judge 

BVA  — 

Board  of  Veterans  Appeals 

CPS  — 

Compensation  and  Pension  Service 

DDS  — 

Disability  Determination  Service 

DI  — 

Disability  Insurance 

DRG  — 

Diagnosis  Related  Group 

DVA  — 

Department  of  Veterans  Affairs 

HHA  — 

Home  Health  Agency 

HHS  — 

Department  of  Health  and  Human 

Services 

HMO  — 

Health  Maintenance  Organization 

NDG  — 

Network  Design  Group 

PRO  — 

Peer  Review  Organization 

SSA  — 

Social  Security  Administration 

SNF  — 

Skilled  Nursing  Facility 

SSI  — 

Supplemental  Security  Income 

INTRODUCTION 

Legislative  proposals  for  establishing  a  federal  long¬ 
term  care  benefit  program  (long-term  care  program) 
are  likely  to  include  procedures  for  review  and  appeal 
when  individuals  are  denied  benefits  to  which  they 
consider  themselves  entitled.  The  design  of  an  effec¬ 
tive  review  and  appeal  process  for  this  program  will 
be  an  additional  challenge  to  policymakers. 


Existing  Benefit  Programs 

The  experiences  of  federally  financed  or  adminis¬ 
tered  health  care  related  programs  (benefit  programs) 
with  review  and  appeal  procedures  provide  significant 
lessons  for  the  design  and  implementation  of  similar 
procedures  for  a  new  long-term  care  program.  This 
report  focuses  on  review  and  appeal  procedures  avail¬ 
able  to  applicants  and  beneficiaries  (beneficiaries), 
except  when  the  interests  of  service  providers  and 
beneficiaries  cannot  be  separated.  Although  the  analy¬ 
sis  often  focuses  on  certain  difficulties  benefit  pro¬ 
grams  may  have  in  meeting  constitutional  due  process 
expectations,  it  is  not  intended  as  a  criticism  of  the 
review  and  appeal  process  in  these  programs. 

The  purpose  of  the  report  is  to  understand  the 
problems  existing  programs  have  encountered  in  pro¬ 
viding  due  process  in  reviews  and  appeals,  in  order  to 
use  the  experiences  of  these  programs  as  guidance  to 
policymakers  in  designing  similar  procedures  for  a 


175 


new  federal  long-term  care  benefit  program.  Several 
types  of  benefit  program  determinations  could  be  ad¬ 
verse  to  a  beneficiary’s  interest.  In  describing  the 
practices  of  existing  benefit  programs,  this  report  fo¬ 
cuses  on  two  of  these: 

•  The  initial  determination  that  a  beneficiary  does 
not  have  a  medical  condition  that  qualifies 
her/him  for  program  benefits  or  payment  for  a 
specific  course  of  treatment  or  level  of  care; 

•  The  decision  to  terminate  a  beneficiary  from  the 
program  or  to  cease  payment  for  a  course  of 
treatment  or  level  of  care  because  her/his  medi¬ 
cal  condition  no  longer  qualifies  her/him  for  ben¬ 
efit  or  payment. 

Most  beneficiary  appeals  involve  these  questions. 1 

Particular  Characteristics  of  a 
Long-Term  Care  Program 

The  application  to  a  long-term  care  program  of 
review  and  appeal  procedures  used  in  existing  benefit 
programs  will  require  imagination  and  flexibility. 
Characteristics  of  a  long-term  care  program  that  make 
it  distinct  from  these  programs  are  its  focus  on: 

•  chronic  as  well  as  acute  care  needs 

•  custodial  and  social  services  rather  than  medical 
care 

•  involvement  of  family  or  other  informal  care¬ 
takers  in  decisionmaking  about  appropriate  care 

•  the  need  for  frequent  reassessment  of  care  plans 
to  respond  to  changing  service  needs 

•  the  central  role  of  the  case  manager,  with  loyal¬ 
ties  to  both  the  beneficiary  and  the  benefit  pro¬ 
gram,  in  developing  and  monitoring  care  plans 


WHY  WOULD  A  NEW  FEDERAL 
LONG-TERM  CARE  PROGRAM 
BE  REQUIRED  TO  PROVIDE 
REVIEW  AND  APPEAL  PROCEDURES 
FOR  BENEFICIARIES  AND 
APPLICANTS? 

The  U.S.  Constitution  (Amendments  5  and  14)  pro¬ 
hibits  the  government  from  taking  a  person’s  life, 
liberty  or  property  without  following  certain  legal 
procedures  designed  to  ensure  that  the  government’s 
action  is  fair  and  impartial.  These  procedures  are  in¬ 


1  Eleanor  Kinney,  “The  Medicare  Appeals  System  for  Coverage  and  Pay¬ 
ment  Disputes:  Achieving  Fairness  in  a  Time  of  Constraint,”  The  Administra¬ 
tive  Law  Journal,  1,(1)  (1987):  69. 


tended  to  protect  citizens  from  arbitrary  government 
conduct.  The  nature  of  and  requirements  for  these 
legal  procedures,  called  procedural  due  process,  have 
evolved  through  litigation  and  legislation. 

Federally  financed  or  administered  programs  pro¬ 
viding  benefits  or  other  payments  to  individual  benefi¬ 
ciaries  or  claimants  are  subject  to  constitutional  due 
process.  Statutory  and  regulatory  provisions  in  these 
programs  establish  review  and  appeal  procedures  in¬ 
tended  to  meet  constitutional  standards. 

For  a  new  long-term  care  program  the  issue  is  not 
whether  to  adopt  review  and  appeal  procedures  but 
what  sort  of  procedures  are  appropriate.  The  develop¬ 
ment  of  appropriate  review  and  appeal  procedures  is 
integrally  related  to  the  design  and  operation  of  the 
long-term  care  program  itself. 

On  the  one  hand,  beneficiaries  are  more  likely  to 
perceive  a  benefit  program’s  review  and  appeal  proc¬ 
ess  as  fair  if  they  consider  the  administration  of  the 
program  itself  to  be  fair.  A  program  that  raises  false 
expectations  among  beneficiaries  and  providers  of 
service,  or  communicates  its  goals  and  limitations  in¬ 
effectively,  may  cause  needless  confusion  among 
beneficiaries  as  to  their  entitlements.  The  result  could 
be  increased  resort  to  the  review  and  appeal  process 
for  clarification  of  entitlements.  This,  in  turn,  could 
raise  the  cost  of  program  administration  significantly. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  effectiveness  of  the  review 
and  appeal  process  could  have  major  implications  for 
the  ongoing  success  of  the  benefit  program.  If  benefi¬ 
ciaries  do  not  consider  the  decisions  on  review  to  be 
fair,  they  might  harbor  mistrust  for  the  program,  pro¬ 
viders  or  the  federal  government  more  generally. 
Beneficiary  mistrust  can  become  costly  to  a  program 
that  exhibits  a  pattern  of  decisionmaking  perceived  as 
unfair. 

If  significant  numbers  of  beneficiaries  complain  to 
their  legislators  that  a  program’s  claims,  review  or 
appeal  determinations  are  unfair,  Congress  is  likely  to 
investigate  these  practices.  Also,  groups  of  benefici¬ 
aries  with  similar  complaints  may  institute  class  ac¬ 
tions  against  the  program  in  federal  court  in  an  effort 
to  force  change  in  its  practices.  The  financial  and 
public  relations  cost  to  the  program  of  these  actions 
could  be  substantial. 


176 


WHAT  ARE  THE  COMPONENTS  OF  A 
REVIEW  AND  APPEAL  PROCEDURE 
THAT  MEETS  DUE  PROCESS 
REQUIREMENTS? 

All  benefit  program  review  and  appeal  procedures 
must  meet  certain  minimal  legal  requirements  but  not 
necessarily  in  the  same  manner  or  degree.  The  goal  of 
a  due  process  review  is  to  ensure  that  the  person  who 
has  been,  or  may  be,  denied  a  benefit  has  “the  oppor¬ 
tunity  to  be  heard”  2  regarding  his  reasons  as  to  why 
he  should  not  have  been  so  denied.  But  the  concept 
of  a  due  process  review  is  complicated. 


Basic  Components 

Certain  basic  components  are  considered  essential 
to  a  due  process  determination  on  the  issues  of  denial 
or  termination  of  eligibility  from  a  benefit  program  or 
of  benefits  under  a  program.  The  formulation  of  a 
prominent  administrative  law  scholar  includes: 

•  timely  and  adequate  notice  to  the  beneficiary  of 
denial,  reasons  for  denial,  the  right  to  review  or 
hearing  and  the  issues  to  be  presented 

•  opportunity  for  the  beneficiary  to  make  an  oral 
statement  or  argument,  and  to  present  evidence 
and  witnesses 

•  opportunity  for  the  beneficiary  to  confront  and 
cross-examine  witnesses 

•  full  disclosure  by  the  government  of  all  relevant 
evidence 

•  right  of  beneficiary  to  be  represented  by  counsel 
and  for  compensation  of  counsel,  if  indigent 

•  right  to  a  decision  based  on  the  record 

•  a  statement  of  findings  of  fact  and  reasons  for 
decision 

•  an  impartial  hearing  officer.3 

There  are  a  variety  of  legally  permissible  ap¬ 
proaches  to  achieving  due  process  in  administrative 
procedures.  The  variations  often  have  a  historical  or 
political  basis,  or  are  the  outgrowth  of  differing  mech¬ 
anisms  for  financing  or  administering  the  programs. 
Where  the  beneficiary’s  interest  in  obtaining  certain 
due  process  protections  conflicts  with  the  public  in¬ 
terest  in  limiting  these  protections,  a  balancing  of 
interests  is  required.  The  factors  to  be  considered  in 
balancing  private  versus  public  interests  are: 


2  Grannis  v.  Ordean,  234  U.S.  385,  394  (1914). 

3  See  Kenneth  Culp  Davis,  Administrative  Law  of  the  '70’s  (Rochester,  NY: 
The  Lawyers  Coop  Publishing  Co.,  1976):  242. 


First,  the  private  interest  that  will  be  affected 
by  the  official  action;  second,  the  risk  of  an  erro¬ 
neous  deprivation  of  such  interest  through  the 
procedures  used,  and  the  probable  value,  if  any, 
of  additional  or  substitute  procedural  safeguards; 
and  finally,  the  Government’s  interest,  including 
the  function  involved  and  the  fiscal  and  adminis¬ 
trative  burdens  that  the  additional  or  substitute 
procedural  requirement  would  entail.4 


Due  Process  in  Practice 

Welfare  programs  financed  from  general  revenues 
may  be  required  to  observe  stricter  due  process  stand¬ 
ards  than  social  insurance  programs  because  of  the 
total  destitution  of  welfare  recipients.5  Where,  how¬ 
ever,  vulnerable  populations,  such  as  low  income,  ill, 
elderly  individuals,  are  permanently  denied  payment 
by  a  federally  supported  insurance  program  for  medi¬ 
cal  expenses  to  which  they  consider  themselves  enti¬ 
tled,  some  courts  have  said  that  government  must 
provide  them  with  substantial  due  process.6  From 
time  to  time,  Congress  has  enacted  legislation  de¬ 
signed  to  correct  the  perceived  systemic  failure  of 
certain  benefit  programs  to  provide  beneficiaries  with 
sufficient  procedural  due  process.  Two  examples  are: 

•  the  requirement  that  the  Department  of  Health 
and  Human  Services  offer  beneficiaries  an  oppor¬ 
tunity  for  a  hearing  before  an  administrative  law 
judge  on  appeal  from  denials  of  Medicare  claims 
by  private  insurance  carriers;7  and 

•  the  creation  of  an  independent  Court  of  Veterans 
Appeals  to  review  final  denials  of  disability  bene¬ 
fits  by  the  Board  of  Veterans  Appeals  in  the  De¬ 
partment  of  Veterans  Affairs.8 


WHAT  ARE  THE  REVIEW  AND 
APPEAL  PROCEDURES  OF  EXISTING 
FEDERALLY  FINANCED  OR 
ADMINISTERED  HEALTH-RELATED 
BENEFIT  PROGRAMS? 

This  section  describes  briefly  the  review  and  appeal 
procedures  of  certain  benefit  programs.  These  are: 

•  Medicare — hospital  insurance,  supplementary 
medical  insurance,  and  prepaid  health  care; 


4  Mathews  v.  Eldridge,  424  U.S.  319,  335  (1975). 

5  Mathews  v.  Eldridge  424  U.S.  319  (1975),  Goldberg  v.  Kelly.  397  U.S.  259 
(1969). 

6  Gray  Panthers  v.  Schweiker,  652  F.2d  146  (1981);  Fox  v.  Bowen,  656 
F.Supp.  1236  (DCT,  1980);  Martinez  v.  Bowen,  655  F.Supp.  95  (DNM,  1986). 

M2  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395ft 

8  Veterans  Judicial  Review  Act,  P.L.  No.  100-687. 


177 


•  Social  Security  Administration  (SSA) — disability 
insurance  and  supplementary  security  income; 

•  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (DVA) — disabil¬ 
ity  allowance  and  disability  pension. 

The  two  SSA  programs  use  the  same  review  and 
appeal  procedure,  as  do  the  two  DVA  programs. 
Each  of  the  three  Medicare  programs  uses  a  different 
set  of  procedures.  All  of  the  benefit  programs  provide 
similar  stages  for  review  and  appeal.  These  include: 
an  initial  determination  by  the  benefit  program  or  its 
designee;  a  reconsideration  by  the  program  or  its  des¬ 
ignee;  an  appeal  to  an  administrative  body  or  bodies 
within  the  agency  not  involved  with  ongoing  benefit 
program  determinations;  and  a  further  appeal  to  a  fed¬ 
eral  court.  The  type  of  mechanism  used  at  each  stage 
varies  considerably  among  programs,  as  do  many  pro¬ 
gram  practices. 

This  section  also  identifies  the  federal  criteria  for 
review  and  appeal  procedures  that  states  must  meet  in 
order  to  receive  federal  Medicaid  funding.  The  Med¬ 
icaid  program  is  not  included,  however,  in  the  more 
detailed  analysis  of  program  practices  in  other  sec¬ 
tions  of  this  report. 

Finally,  this  section  describes  review  and  appeal 
procedures  of  two  private  insurance  companies  offer¬ 
ing  group  long-term  care  insurance  with  a  managed 
care  component.  Private  companies  have  no  constitu¬ 
tional  obligation  to  provide  due  process  review  and 
appeal  procedures.  Any  legal  requirements  would  be 
based  in  state  law.  The  private  insurance  company 
programs  are: 

•  ORS  LTC  Aetna  Long-Term  Care 

•  The  Travelers  Long  Term  Care  Plan  with  Case 
Management 


Medicare 

Medicare  9  is  a  national  health  insurance  program 
for  persons  65  years  and  over  and  certain  categories 
of  disabled  persons.  Medicare  is  administered  by  the 
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (HHS) 
through  the  Health  Care  Financing  Administration 
(HCFA). 

Medicare  delegates  a  substantial  portion  of  both 
program  administration  and  review  functions  to 
various  private  sector  organizations.  These  include  in¬ 
surance  companies  acting  either  as  the  recipients  of 
hospital,  nursing  home  or  home  care  claims  (fiscal 


9  Social  Security  Act,  Title  XVIII,  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395,  et  seq.,  and  Title 

XI,  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1320c,  et  seq. 


intermediaries)  for  the  Part  A  compulsory  participa¬ 
tion  program  or  as  the  initial  claims  processors  (car¬ 
riers)  for  the  Part  B  voluntary  insurance  program.  In 
addition,  organizations  of  physicians,  Peer  Review 
Organizations  (PROs)  and  Health  Maintenance  Orga¬ 
nizations  (HMOs)  are  engaged  in  processing  and  re¬ 
viewing  claims  as  part  of  the  Medicare  program. 

Medicare  Hospital  Insurance  (Part  A) — This  pro¬ 
gram  is  financed  by  contributions  of  employees  and 
employers  to  Social  Security  earmarked  for  Medicare. 
It  functions  like  an  insurance  program,  making  pay¬ 
ments  for  inpatient  hospital  care,  skilled  nursing  facil¬ 
ity  care,  home  health  care,  and  hospice  care.  In  FY 
1989,  29.4  million  aged  and  3.2  million  disabled  per¬ 
sons  were  protected  under  part  A.  Of  these,  6.7  mil¬ 
lion  older  persons  and  .8  million  disabled  persons 
actually  received  reimbursed  services.10 *  Medicare 
Part  A  has  a  different  review  and  appeal  procedure 
for  determinations  about  medical  necessity  and  appro¬ 
priateness  of  care  in  hospitals  than  for  all  other 
claims.  These  review  procedures  are  particularly  com¬ 
plicated  and  cannot  readily  be  described  in  summary 
form.11  Within  the  category  of  hospital  claims,  pre¬ 
admission  screening  claims  are  handled  somewhat  dif¬ 
ferently  than  in-patient  claims.  The  bulk  of  other 
claims  involve  services  of  a  skilled  nursing  facility 
(SNF)  or  a  home  health  agency  (HHA). 

Descriptions  of  review  and  appeal  procedures  in 
these  three  situations  follows. 

Hospital  Claims  Requiring  Medical  Determinations 
for  Pre-Admission  Screening — Any  decision  should  be 
totally  based  on  the  medical  needs  of  the  beneficiary. 

In  the  case  of  elective  or  nonemergency  surgery 
the  hospital  may  notify  the  beneficiary  that  in  the  hos¬ 
pital’s  opinion  Medicare  will  not  pay  for  the  surgery. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  a  written  statement  of 
the  hospital’s  opinion. 

The  beneficiary  should  notify  the  PRO,  a  private 
organization  of  physicians  that  has  a  contract  with 
HCFA,  as  soon  as  she/he  receives  notice.  The  PRO 
has  three  working  days  to  respond  to  request. 

If  the  PRO  agrees  that  admission  will  not  be  cov¬ 
ered,  the  PRO’S  decision  is  a  Medicare  denial  and 


10  House  Committee  on  Ways  and  Means,  Background  Material  and  Data 
on  Programs  within  the  Jurisdiction  of  the  Committee  on  Ways  and  Means.  101st 
Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  1989,  Committee  Print  4,  127. 

11  See  AARP,  Medicare’s  Prospective  Payment  System.  Knowing  Your  Rights 
(Washington  D.C.:  Revised  1988),  for  an  excellent  description  of  these 
procedures. 


178 


its  notice  must  advise  the  beneficiary  of  right  to 
reconsideration. 

The  PRO  may  notify  the  beneficiary  that  Medicare 
will  not  pay  for  elective  surgery.  This  notice  must 
contain:  reasons  for  denial,  right  to  expedited  recon¬ 
sideration,  how  to  request  reconsideration,  and  that 
beneficiary  can  submit  additional  evidence. 

The  beneficiary  must  request  reconsideration  within 
three  calendar  days  of  receiving  notice. 

If,  on  reconsideration,  the  PRO  denies  or  partially 
denies  a  claim,  the  notice  must  state:  the  basis  for  the 
decision,  and  description  of  further  appeal  rights.  No 
face-to-face  hearing  is  required. 

Hospital  Claims  Requiring  Medical  Determinations 
For  Hospital  Inpatient  Beneficiaries — When  the  benefi¬ 
ciary  enters  the  hospital,  the  hospital  must  give 
her/him  a  statement  of  rights  to  review  and  appeal 
under  Medicare. 

If  the  hospital  or  physician  determines  that  the 
beneficiary’s  stay  is  no  longer  medically  necessary  or 
that  the  beneficiary  requires  a  different  level  of  care, 
the  hospital  or  physician  informs  the  beneficiary  that 
there  will  be  no  Medicare  coverage  after  three  days. 

If  the  beneficiary  is  informed  orally,  disagrees  with 
this  decision  and  remains  in  the  hospital,  she/he  may 
ask  the  hospital  for  written  notice  of  its  decision. 

If  the  doctor  has  agreed  with  the  hospital  the  writ¬ 
ten  notification  must  come  from  the  hospital.  The 
beneficiary  may  request  the  PRO,  to  review  the  hos¬ 
pital’s  decision.  If  the  PRO  agrees  with  the  hospital, 
the  PRO’S  notice  to  the  beneficiary  is  a  Medicare 
notice  of  noncoverage  or  initial  denial  determination. 

Upon  receiving  notice,  the  beneficiary  has  until 
noon  of  the  next  working  day  to  request  PRO 
reconsideration. 

The  PRO  must  consider  the  case  within  one  work¬ 
day  after  getting  a  request.  The  PRO  must  solicit  the 
beneficiary’s  views  and  examine  the  medical  record. 
No  face-to-face  hearing  is  required. 

The  PRO  must  send  the  beneficiary,  doctor  and 
hospital  its  decision  within  the  next  full  workday  after 
receiving  the  request  for  review  and  the  hospital  s 
records.  One  day  after  receiving  the  initial  denial  de¬ 
termination,  the  beneficiary  may  be  charged  for  the 
remaining  hospital  stay. 


Decision  must  include  notice  of  appeal  rights. 

If  doctor  has  disagreed  with  the  hospital  the  hospi¬ 
tal  must  tell  the  beneficiary  it  is  requesting  a  decision 
from  the  PRO  which  must  directly  inquire  of  the 
beneficiary  about  his  condition  prior  to  making  a 
decision. 

If  the  PRO  agrees  with  the  hospital,  both  the  PRO 
and  the  hospital  must  send  the  beneficiary  a  Medicare 
notice  of  noncoverage. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  an  expedited  reconsid¬ 
eration  from  the  PRO  by  calling  the  PRO  as  quickly 
as  possible. 

The  PRO  has  three  workdays  from  the  date  of 
sending  the  beneficiary  the  notice  of  noncoverage  to 
make  a  reconsideration  decision.  No  face-to-face  hear¬ 
ing  is  required.  If  the  PRO  denies  the  claim,  the 
beneficiary  may  be  charged  for  the  remaining  days  of 
her/his  hospital  stay. 

The  decision  must  include  notice  of  appeal  rights. 

In  both  of  the  above  situations  if  the  amount  in 
controversy  is  at  least  $200,  the  beneficiary  may  re¬ 
quest  a  de  novo  face-to-face  hearing  before  an  SSA 
Administrative  Law  Judge  (ALJ).  The  beneficiary 
may  be  represented. 

If  the  claim  is  denied,  the  SSA  Appeal  Councils 
may  review  the  claim  at  the  beneficiary’s  request  or 
on  its  own  initiative,  and  either  decide  or  dismiss  the 
case. 

After  Appeals  Council  action,  any  party  may 
request  a  hearing  in  U.S.  District  Court,  if  the 
amount  in  issue  is  at  least  $2,000.  The  parties  may  be 
represented. 

Skilled  Nursing  Facility  and  Home  Health  Agency 
Claims — For  all  claims  other  than  hospital  claims  re¬ 
quiring  medical  determinations  if  the  service  provider 
decides  that  the  service  is  not  medically  necessary  or 
that  skilled  care  is  inappropriate  for  the  beneficiary, 
either  prior  to  providing  service  initially  or  before 
terminating  an  ongoing  service  (the  more  usual  situa¬ 
tion)  the  service  provider  (SNF  or  HHA)  must: 

•  notify  the  beneficiary  in  writing  that  it  does  not 
believe  that  the  service  or  confinement  is  covered 
by  Medicare; 


179 


•  inform  the  beneficiary  that  she/he  can  request  a 
Medicare  determination  of  whether  or  not  the 
service  or  confinement  is  covered; 

•  submit  the  claim  to  the  insurance  company  serv¬ 
ing  as  fiscal  intermediary  on  behalf  of  the  benefi¬ 
ciary  stating  that  it  believes  that  Medicare  will 
not  cover  the  confinement  or  service  (a  no-pay¬ 
ment  claim).  (SNFs  may  not  bill  a  beneficiary 
prior  to  the  fiscal  intermediary’s  initial  decision; 
HHAs  may  do  so.) 

If  the  service  provider  decides  that  Medicare  is 
likely  to  pay  the  claim,  it  must  submit  a  claim  for 
payment  on  behalf  of  the  beneficiary  to  the  fiscal 
intermediary  to  determine  whether  or  not  the  service 
or  confinement  is  covered  by  Medicare.  If  the  fiscal 
intermediary  denies  the  claim,  it  must  send  a  denial 
notice  to  the  beneficiary  indicating  her/his  right  to  re¬ 
quest  reconsideration  by  the  fiscal  intermediary. 

If  the  reconsideration  is  a  denial,  the  fiscal 
intermediary  must  notify  the  beneficiary  of  the  deci¬ 
sion  in  writing  indicating  further  appeal  rights.  A 
face-to-face  hearing  is  not  required. 

If  the  amount  in  controversy  is  at  least  $100,  the 
beneficiary  may  request  a  face-to-face  de  novo  hearing 
before  an  SSA  ALJ. 

The  beneficiary  may  be  represented. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  a  review  by  the  SSA 
Appeals  Council  or  the  Council  may  review  the  case 
on  its  own  initiative.  This  generally  is  an  on-the- 
record  review. 

After  action  by  Appeals  Council,  all  parties  may  re¬ 
quest  a  hearing  in  the  U.S.  District  Court,  if  the 
amount  in  controversy  is  at  least  $1,000.  The  parties 
may  be  represented. 

In  a  recent  24  to  36  month  period,  there  were 
6,655,505  denials  of  continued  hospital  care  reviewed 
by  PROs.  Four  percent  or  278,294  of  these  reviews 
resulted  in  denial  of  coverage.  The  PROs  recon¬ 
sidered  33  percent  of  the  denials,  or  91,268  cases,  and 
reversed  44  percent  of  these,  or  40,0 16. 12 

In  FY  89,  there  were  75,620,079  claims  filed  for 
Part  A  Nursing  Home  and  Home  Health  Care  bene¬ 
fits.  Of  these,  3,882,546  were  denied.  There  were 
40,001  reconsiderations  of  which  47  percent  were  re¬ 
versals  of  initial  decisions.  ALJ  proceedings  were 


12  Richard  Husk,  Director,  Office  of  Peer  Review,  Health  Quality  Stand¬ 
ards  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  conversation  with 
author  (Baltimore,  Md.:  November  17,  1989). 


held  on  9,010  cases  with  a  reversal  rate  of  81 
percent. 1 3 

Supplementary  Medical  Insurance  (Part  B) — Part  B 
is  voluntarily  financed  from  premiums  of  elderly  or 
disabled  individuals  or  those  with  end-stage  renal  dis¬ 
ease  who  are  enrolled  in  the  program.  In  FY  1989, 
29.2  million  aged  and  2.9  million  disabled  individuals 
were  enrolled  in  Part  B.  Over  23.6  million  aged  and 
2.3  million  disabled  individuals  received  Part  B  reim¬ 
bursed  services.14 

The  beneficiary  submits  a  claim  to  an  insurance  car¬ 
rier  for  initial  determination.  If  the  carrier  denies  the 
claim,  it  must  send  a  written  notice  of  the  denial  to 
the  beneficiary  stating  the  reasons  for  denial  and  in¬ 
forming  the  beneficiary  of  her/his  right  to  have  the 
determination  reviewed. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  a  review  in  writing 
with  specific  identification  of  reasons  for  appeal,  and 
send  the  request  to  the  carrier’s  office  or  an  SSA 
office. 

The  review  is  conducted  by  the  carrier,  but  by  a 
different  employee  than  the  individual  making  the  ini¬ 
tial  determination.  The  beneficiary  may  submit  writ¬ 
ten  evidence  and  contentions  of  fact  or  law  relative  to 
the  claim.  The  carrier  may  develop  additional  infor¬ 
mation.  The  review  is  on  the  record. 

If  the  carrier  denies  the  claim,  it  must  advise  the 
beneficiary  of  the  right  to  request  a  hearing,  where 
the  amount  in  controversy  is  $100  or  more.  It  must 
also  provide  reasons  for  the  denial. 

The  beneficiary  requests  a  hearing  by  the  carrier  at 
the  carrier’s  office  or  an  SSA  office.  If  all  the  parties 
waive  personal  appearance  at  the  hearing,  the  carrier 
will  make  a  determination  based  on  an  on-the-record 
review. 

The  carrier  must  send  a  notice  of  hearing  prior  to 
the  hearing  that  sets  forth  time  and  place,  purpose, 
statement  of  issues,  consequences  of  the  hearing  and 
the  beneficiary’s  rights. 

The  hearing  is  de  novo.  The  beneficiary  may  bring 
witnesses,  make  statements  and  present  other  evi¬ 
dence.  The  beneficiary  may  be  represented  by  an  at¬ 
torney  or  lay  representative. 

If  the  carrier  denies  the  claim,  it  must  issue  a  writ¬ 
ten  decision  including  a  statement  of  law  and  regu- 

13  Intermediary  Appeals  Workload  Report  to  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  December  1989. 

14  Ways  and  Means,  Background  Material,  127. 


180 


lations,  specific  facts,  and  explanation  of  reasons  for 
decision.  The  notice  must  inform  the  beneficiary  of 
further  appeal  rights. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  a  de  novo  hearing  by 
an  SSA  ALJ  if  the  value  of  the  claim  is  $500  or  more. 

All  appeals  are  processed  through  a  centralized 
unit,  the  Development  Center,  which  prepares  the 
record  for  the  ALJ.  Beneficiaries  may  request  either 
an  on-the-record  review  or  a  face-to-face  hearing. 

All  determinations  are  made  by  designated  Part  B 
ALJs.  On-the-record  determinations  are  made  by  a 
specific  ALJ,  and  based  on  recommendations  of  the 
Development  Center  staff. 

The  beneficiary  may  be  represented  at  the  ALJ 
hearing. 

If  the  claim  is  denied,  the  beneficiary  may  request  a 
review  by  the  Appeals  Council  of  SSA  which  will 
either  decide  or  dismiss  the  case.  This  is  an  on-the- 
record  review. 

After  Appeals  Council  action,  any  party  may  re¬ 
quest  a  hearing  in  a  U.S.  District  Court,  if  the  amount 
in  controversy  is  at  least  $1,000.  The  parties  may  be 
represented. 

There  were  410,678,568  Part  B  claims  filed  in  FY 
89,  71,722,184  of  which  were  denied.  Of  6,075,507  re¬ 
views  of  initial  denials,  57  percent  were  reversed.  Of 
66,802  carrier  fair  hearings  completed,  56  percent  re¬ 
sulted  in  reversals.  The  ALJ  made  decisions  in  436 
cases,  40  percent  of  which  were  reversals  of  fair  hear¬ 
ing  denials.15 

Medicare  Health  Maintenance  Organizations 
(HMOs) — HMOs  provide  comprehensive  medical 
services  to  subscribers.  Their  mechanisms  for  assess¬ 
ing  need  and  providing  health  services  offer  a  model 
for  service  delivery  that  is  closer  to  long-term  care 
than  any  other  type  of  benefit  program.  HMOs  re¬ 
quire  subscribers  to  pay  a  flat  amount  in  advance  of 
service,  generally  a  monthly  fee.  HMOs  contracting 
with  Medicare  on  a  risk  basis  must  agree  to  provide 
covered  services  to  Medicare  beneficiaries  for  a  pre¬ 
determined  fixed  amount  per  person.16  This  puts  the 
HMOs  at  risk  of  financial  loss  if  costs  exceed  Medi¬ 
care  payments.  In  January  1988  there  were  130  risk 
basis  HMOs  providing  services  to  nearly  one  million 
Medicare  beneficiaries.  Because  the  HMO  pays  pro¬ 
viders  of  medical  services  directly,  HCFA  maintains 


15  “Carrier  Appeals  Workload  Report  to  Health  Care  Financing  Adminis¬ 
tration,”  December  1989. 

18  42  U.S.C,  Sec.  1395mm. 


no  data  on  the  number  of  individuals  using  outpatient 
services  and  only  limited  data  on  use  of  inpatient 
services. 

HCFA  has  contracted  out  to  each  HMO  the  func¬ 
tion  of  reviewing  its  own  decisions  as  to  whether 
disputed  services  are  covered  by  the  beneficiary’s 
contract  with  the  HMO.  HCFA  provides  minimal 
guidelines  for  the  design  of  HMO  review  and  appeal 
procedures  and  does  not  monitor  HMO  operations  in 
this  area.  Consequently,  HCFA  maintains  no  data  on 
the  number  of  claims  denied  or  the  number  of  initial 
reviews  conducted. 

The  process  by  which  the  HMO  determines 
whether  or  not  a  beneficiary  may  receive  services  and 
the  review  of  HMO  denials  of  service  vary  depending 
on  the  policies  of  the  HMO.  HMOs  are  subject  to 
HCFA  requirements  regarding  notice,  right  to  recon¬ 
sideration,  and  right  to  present  evidence  in  person  or 
in  writing. 

The  HMO  initial  determination  and  review  process 
described  is  that  of  U.S.  Health  Care.17 

If  the  HMO  denies  a  request  for  service,  the  benefi¬ 
ciary  may  file  a  grievance  by  telephone  or  in  writing 
with  the  U.S.  Health  Care  Member  Relations  Depart¬ 
ment  (MRD).  MRD  does  the  initial  investigation.  If 
not  resolved  informally,  the  beneficiary  or  MRD  may 
take  her/his  request  to  the  grievance  committee. 

The  grievance  committee  has  30  days  to  act  on  the 
request.  There  are  no  set  procedures;  the  committee 
focuses  on  finding  solutions  to  the  problem. 

If  medical  care  is  an  issue  in  the  request  for  service, 
the  Medical  Director  of  U.S.  Health  Care  sends  a 
letter  to  the  beneficiary’s  primary  physician  asking  for 
his  decision  within  a  stated  period  of  time.  If  a  spe¬ 
cialist  is  necessary,  she/he  is  asked  to  make  a  decision. 
Although  this  is  not  the  case  in  all  risk  HMOs,  at  U.S. 
Health  Care  the  primary  physician  and  specialist  are 
not  employees  of  the  HMO.  (Although  HCFA  prefers 
that  decisions  are  made  by  physicians  or  nurses,  the 
HMOs  are  allowed  to  decide  the  credentials  of 
decisionmakers.) 

After  the  physician  makes  a  decision,  the  U.S. 
Health  Care  Grievance  Review  Board  consults  with 
the  Medical  Director.  If  the  request  for  service  is 
denied,  the  HMO  sends  a  letter  to  the  beneficiary  stat¬ 
ing  the  decision,  reasons  for  denial,  and  the  right  to  a 
reconsideration. 


17  Mary  Lonnergan,  U.S.  Health  Care,  telephone  conversation  with 
author,  November  8,  1989. 


181 


If  the  beneficiary  requests  a  reconsideration,  ac¬ 
cording  to  HCFA  directives  the  HMO  must  provide 
it.  The  beneficiary  may  file  the  request  at  the  HMO 
or  an  SSA  office. 

The  reconsideration  is  to  be  based  on  the  initial  de¬ 
termination  and  any  other  evidence  submitted  by  the 
parties  or  obtained  by  the  HMO.  The  beneficiary  may 
request  a  face-to-face  hearing  and  be  represented  by 
an  attorney  or  lay  individual. 

If  the  HMO  wishes  to  deny  the  request  for  service 
on  reconsideration,  the  beneficiary’s  file  with  indica¬ 
tion  of  how  the  HMO  arrived  at  its  decision 
must  first  be  sent  to  HCFA  for  review.  Network 
Design  Group  (NDG),  a  private  contractor  to 
HCFA,  reviews  all  files,  develops  new  information, 
and  makes  a  determination. 

If  the  request  for  service  is  denied,  the  beneficiary 
may  ask  for  a  de  novo  face-to-face  hearing  or  on-the- 
record  review  before  an  SSA  ALJ.  The  beneficiary 
may  be  represented. 

If  the  request  is  denied,  the  SSA  Appeals  Council 
may  review  it  if  the  beneficiary  wishes  or  on  its  own 
initiative,  and  either  decide  or  dismiss  the  request. 
This  review  is  on  the  record  only. 

After  Appeals  Council  action,  any  party  may 
request  a  hearing  in  U.S.  District  Court,  if  the 
amount  in  issue  is  at  least  $1,000.  The  parties  may  be 
represented. 

In  early  1989,  HCFA  contracted  with  NDG  to  act 
as  its  agent  in  reviewing  adverse  reconsideration  de¬ 
terminations  after  the  HMO  has  completed  its 
reconsideration  review  but  prior  to  making  a  final  de¬ 
termination.  Of  the  1,550  cases  that  NDG  closed,  it 
upheld  the  HMO  decision  in  713  and  overturned  it  in 
557  cases.  An  additional  130  were  partially  upheld. 
There  were  107  requests  for  an  ALJ  proceeding.18 


Social  Security  Administration 

The  Social  Security  Administration  is  responsible 
for  two  programs  that  provide  monthly  cash  benefits 
to  disabled  individuals  based  on  established  program 
eligibility  criteria — Disability  Insurance  (DI)  19  and 
Supplemental  Security  Income  (SSI).20  Although 


18  Sylvia  Hendel,  Office  of  Prepaid  Health  Care,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  conversation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  December  5, 
1989). 

19  Social  Security  Act,  Title  II,  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  401,  et  seq. 

20  Social  Security  Act,  Title  XVI,  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1381,  et  seq. 


funding  for  the  two  programs  comes  from  different 
sources,  the  review  and  appeal  procedures,  for  the 
most  part,  are  identical. 

SSA  has  incorporated  medical  and  vocational  eligi¬ 
bility  criteria  into  a  complicated  sequential  evaluation 
process  used  in  making  decisions  as  to  initial  and  con¬ 
tinuing  eligibility  for  disability  payments.  The  final 
step  is  to  determine  whether  a  beneficiary’s  impair¬ 
ment  meets  or  is  equivalent  to  any  of  a  large  number 
of  impairments,  called  the  “medical  listings.”  Benefici¬ 
aries  whose  condition  and  degree  of  severity  meet  or 
are  similar  to  a  listed  condition  qualify  for  benefits.  If 
a  beneficiary’s  condition  is  less  severe  than  the  listing, 
but  he  has  specific  vocational  limitations  that  rule  out 
the  possibility  of  working,  he  is  also  eligible  for  either 
DI  or  SSI. 

Federal  law  requires  that  65  percent  of  initial  deter¬ 
minations  of  eligibility  be  reviewed  by  the  Secretary 
of  HHS.  In  addition,  SSA  is  required  to  examine 
every  individual  on  the  DI  and  SSI  roles  once  every 
three  years  to  determine  continuing  eligibility 
for  benefits. 

Disability  Insurance — The  DI  program  provides 
cash  benefits  to  disabled  workers  under  age  65  and 
their  dependents.  Individuals  contribute  to  a  Dis¬ 
ability  Insurance  Trust  Fund  through  regular  salary 
deductions  that  generally  are  matched  by  employer 
contributions.  Benefit  amounts  are  related  to  past 
earnings  of  an  insured  worker.  In  1988,  2,830,000 
workers  and  an  additional  1,244,000  dependents  were 
on  the  DI  roles. 

Supplemental  Security  Income — The  SSI  program  is 
a  federally  administered  income  assistance  program 
that  provides  cash  benefits  to  needy  aged,  blind  and 
disabled  individuals  who  meet  established  medical  eli¬ 
gibility  and  income  criteria.  In  1988,  4,434,069  indi¬ 
viduals  received  SSI  benefits. 

DI  and  SSI  Benefit  Applications  and  Continuing  Eli* 
gibility  Determinations — A  beneficiary  applies  (or  is 
reviewed  for  continuing  eligibility)  for  DI  or  SSI  ben¬ 
efit  at  an  SSA  District  Office  (DO).  The  beneficiary 
is  responsible  for  providing  the  necessary  evidence  to 
determine  eligibility,  but  the  DO  will  assist  in  acquir¬ 
ing  evidence. 

The  DO  opens  a  file  on  the  individual  including  all 
the  known  sources  of  medical  evidence  of  disability. 
This  is  a  face-to-face  meeting  with  a  DO  representa¬ 
tive  who  is  not  with  the  decisionmaker. 

The  DO  determines  eligibility  based  on  all  factors, 
except  for  medical/vocational  factors. 


182 


The  DO  forwards  the  beneficiary’s  file  to  the  Dis¬ 
ability  Determination  Service  (DDS),  a  state  agency 
that  contracts  with  SSA  for  determination  of  medi¬ 
cal/vocational  eligibility.  DDS  provides  trained  exam¬ 
iners  and  physicians  to  make  eligibility  determinations 
who  perform  the  sequential  evaluation  of  medical/vo¬ 
cational  eligibility.  The  decision  is  based  on  an  on-the- 
record  review. 

Prior  to  its  determination,  a  DDS  must — 

•  prepare  each  case  for  determination 

•  assemble  available  medical  evidence 

•  arrange  for  an  independent  medical  examination 
at  its  own  option 

•  evaluate  each  case  to  see  if  it  meets  SSA  dis¬ 
ability  criteria. 

If  a  DDS  denies  eligibility  or  continuing  eligibility, 
SSA  must — 

•  inform  the  beneficiary  in  writing  of  the  denial 
and  medical  basis  for  the  denial 

•  notify  the  beneficiary  of  the  right  to  request  re¬ 
consideration  of  the  denial 

The  beneficiary  requests  reconsideration  at  the  DO 
which  forwards  the  request  to  the  appropriate  DDS 
for  determination.  Prior  to  making  a  decision,  a  DDS 
must — 

•  re-examine  all  of  the  evidence  in  the  beneficiary’s 
file 

•  examine  additional  information  submitted  by  or 
on  behalf  of  the  beneficiary 

•  obtain  new  medical  evidence,  if  indicated 

•  designate  an  examiner  and  physician  other  than 
those  making  the  initial  determination 

Except  for  reconsideration  of  decisions  to  terminate 
beneficiaries  from  DI  benefits,  reconsideration  is  an 
on-the-record  review.  In  only  one  situation,  if  con¬ 
tinued  benefit  is  denied  on  reconsideration,  the  benefi¬ 
ciary  may  request  a  face-to-face  hearing  at  the  DDS. 

If  the  benefit  is  denied,  SSA  must  provide  the  bene¬ 
ficiary  with  notification  similar  to  the  initial  determi¬ 
nation  notice. 

The  beneficiary  may  request  a  face-to-face  de  novo 
hearing  before  an  SSA  ALJ.  The  beneficiary  may  be 
represented. 

If  the  ALJ  denies  the  benefit,  the  SSA  Appeals 
Council  will  review  the  case  either  at  the 
beneficiary’s  request  or  on  its  own  initiative,  and 
decide  or  dismiss  the  case.  This  is  an  on-the-record 
review. 


Any  party  may  request  a  hearing  in  a  U.S.  District 
Court  at  which  all  parties  may  be  represented  by 
counsel.  The  hearing  is  based  on  evidence  in  the 
record  only,  unless  there  is  substantial  new  evidence 
to  be  introduced. 

In  1988,  there  were  1,516,873  initial  applications  for 
DI,  SSI,  and  DI  and  SSI  combined,  of  which  36  per¬ 
cent  were  allowed.  Nearly  half  of  those  denied  initial 
eligibility  appealed  for  reconsideration.  After  all 
levels  of  appeal  had  been  exhausted,  an  additional  21 
percent  of  beneficiaries  were  declared  eligible  for  ben¬ 
efits,  bringing  the  total  to  49  percent.  For  cases  re¬ 
viewed  at  the  ALJ  level  in  1988,  59.2  percent  were 
reversed  or  judged  favorable  to  the  beneficiary.  Of 
the  318,134  continuing  disability  reviews,  88  percent 
of  beneficiaries  were  continued.  Nearly  half  of  those 
terminated  appealed.  After  exhaustion  of  the  appeal 
process,  an  additional  21  percent  of  those  terminated 
were  continued  on  the  roles.21 


Department  of  Veterans  Affairs 

Veterans  over  65  and  totally  disabled,  who  can 
meet  a  means  test,  may  be  eligible  to  receive  pensions 
for  nonservice-connected  disabilities.  Veterans  with 
certain  service-connected  disabilities  may  be  able  to 
receive  compensation.  The  amounts  of  the  monthly 
payments  for  either  of  these  programs  are  determined 
by  disability  ratings  based  on  a  statutory  formula. 
Within  the  last  two  years,  the  review  and  appeal  pro¬ 
cedures  for  the  disability  compensation  and  pension 
programs  have  undergone  major  changes,  some  of 
which  are  still  being  put  into  place.  Congress  has  es¬ 
tablished  an  independent  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals, 
granting  veterans  an  appeal  to  a  body  outside  of  the 
Veterans  Administration  for  the  first  time  since  estab¬ 
lishment  of  the  disability  programs  after  the  Civil 
War.  Another  recent  change  is  the  opportunity  for  an 
intermediate  hearing  and  decision  before  a  DVA 
hearing  officer,  after  the  initial  determination  by  a 
three-person  Rating  Board,  and  prior  to  the  appeal  to 
the  Board  of  Veterans  Appeals. 

The  beneficiary  files  a  claim  for  benefit  with  the 
Compensation  and  Pension  Service  (CPS)  at  a  local 
office  of  the  DVA. 

A  three-person  Rating  Board  of  two  lay  persons 
and  a  physician  make  the  initial  disability  determina¬ 
tion.  Prior  to  their  determination  they  must  develop 
medical  evidence,  including  ordering  an  examination 


21  Ways  and  Means,  Background  Material,  49-52. 


183 


at  a  DVA  medical  facility,  if  they  consider  it 
appropriate. 

The  determination  is  based  on  application  of  an  es¬ 
tablished  point  system,  including  a  list  of  medical  con¬ 
ditions  considered  sufficiently  disabling  to  establish 
eligibility.  The  beneficiary  is  entitled  to  an  informal 
hearing  and  to  a  service  organization  representative. 

If  the  Rating  Board  denies  the  claim,  the  CPS  sends 
the  beneficiary  a  Notice  of  Decision  including  the 
rating  decision  and  a  statement  that  she/he  can  file 
notice  of  disagreement. 

If  the  beneficiary  files  a  notice  of  disagreement, 
CPS  sends  her/him  a  Statement  of  the  Case — a  de¬ 
tailed  statement  of  facts,  law  and  reasons  for  the  deci¬ 
sion,  and  a  form  on  which  to  request  an  appeal  to  the 
Board  of  Veterans  Appeals  (BVA),  a  departmental 
appellate  body.  The  beneficiary  can  request  a  hearing 
before  the  BVA,  a  CPS  hearing  officer  (acting  as  an 
agent  of  the  BVA  to  develop  the  record  on  which  the 
BVA  makes  a  decision),  or  a  traveling  BVA  panel. 

After  receiving  the  Statement  of  the  Case  and  prior 
to  requesting  an  appeal  the  beneficiary  has  the  option, 
on  her/his  own  initiative,  to  request  an  informal  re¬ 
consideration  hearing  before  a  CPS  hearing  officer. 
The  hearing  officer  may  uphold,  reverse  or  remand 
the  case  to  the  Rating  Board  for  further  development. 
The  beneficiary  may  be  represented  by  a  service 
organization. 

The  beneficiary  can  appeal  the  decision  of  the 
Rating  Board  or  the  hearing  officer  to  the  BVA. 
BVA  hearings  are  based  on  the  record  developed  by 
CPS  hearing  officers  for  the  BVA.  The  BVA  may 
uphold,  reverse  or  remand  the  case  for  further  devel¬ 
opment.  The  beneficiary  may  be  represented  by  a 
service  organization. 

If  the  BVA  denies  the  claim,  the  beneficiary  may 
either  request  a  reconsideration,  appeal  to  the  Court 
of  Veterans  Appeals  or  file  the  claim  again  with  CPS 
for  redetermination  by  the  Rating  Board.  At  this 
point,  the  beneficiary  may  be  represented  by  an 
attorney. 

The  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals  is  not  yet  oper¬ 
ational,  so  that  its  procedures  cannot  be  described. 

The  beneficiary  may  appeal  from  a  denial  by  the 
Court  of  Veterans  Appeals  to  the  U.S.  Court  of  Ap¬ 
peals  for  the  District  of  Columbia. 

In  1988,  2.2  million  disabled  veterans  and  326,000 
survivors  received  compensation;  about  1.23  million 


individuals  received  pensions.  In  FY  1989,  3,715,414 
veterans’  and  survivors’  benefits  claims  were  adjudi¬ 
cated.  Figures  are  not  maintained  on  allowance  and 
denial  prior  to  the  BVA  level.  In  FY  1989,  38,673 
cases  were  reviewed  by  the  Board  of  Veterans  Ap¬ 
peals;  14  percent  were  allowed,  62.6  percent  were 
denied,  and  22  percent  were  remanded  to  the  field 
office  for  further  development  of  the  case.22 


Medicaid 

Medicaid  23  is  a  federal-state  matching  entitlement 
program  providing  medical  assistance  for  certain  cate¬ 
gories  of  vulnerable,  low-income  individuals.  Within 
federal  guidelines,  each  state  designs  and  administers 
its  own  program.  Review  and  appeal  procedures  must 
meet  minimum  federal  standards.24 

States  are  required  to  offer  all  beneficiaries  an  op¬ 
portunity  for  a  fair  hearing  whenever  they  are  denied 
or  terminated  from  eligibility;  when  their  claims  are 
denied  or  not  acted  upon  promptly;  or  when  the 
Medicaid  agency  takes  action  to  suspend,  terminate, 
or  reduce  services.  States  also  must  describe  their 
review  and  appeal  procedures  in  the  state  plan  that  is 
submitted  to  the  federal  government  for  funding. 

Medicaid  review  and  appeal  procedures  must 
include: 

•  a  system  for  hearings 

•  notice 

•  right  to  a  hearing  in  certain  circumstances 

•  guarantee  of  maintenance  of  service  until 
determination 

•  right  to  review  of  initial  decision  by  state  agency 
including  de  novo  hearing  at  request  of  the 
beneficiary 

•  hearing  procedures  that  meet  federally  mandated 
standards 

Basically,  the  state  hearing  system  is  required  to 
meet  the  standards  set  out  in  Goldberg  v.  Kelly. 25  The 
Medicaid  agency  must  provide  for  a  hearing  before 
the  agency  or  a  local  level  evidentiary  hearing  with  a 
right  of  appellate  hearing  before  the  agency.  The 
agency  must  publicize  its  hearing  procedures  and 
inform  Medicaid  beneficiaries  in  writing  of  their 
review  and  appeal  rights.  The  agency  must  allow 


22  Michael  Dunlop,  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs,  conversation  with 
author  (Washington,  D.C.:  January  11,  1990). 

23  Social  Security  Act,  Title  XIX,  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1396,  et  seq. 

24  42  CFR  Ch.  IV,  Subpart  E. 

25  Goldberg  v.  Kelly.  397  U.S.  259  (1969). 


184 


beneficiaries  to  be  represented  by  a  friend  or  an 
attorney. 

Notice — Advance  notice  to  beneficiaries  is  required 
to  state  what  action  the  agency  intends  to  take  and 
the  reasons  for  the  intended  action.  It  also  must  in¬ 
clude  a  statement  of  the  law  and  an  explanation  of  the 
beneficiary’s  right  to  an  evidentiary  hearing,  the  cir¬ 
cumstances  under  which  a  hearing  will  be  granted, 
and  the  circumstances  under  which  Medicaid  will  be 
continued  during  the  pendency  of  the  review  process. 

Right  to  a  Hearing — The  agency  must  grant  an  op¬ 
portunity  for  a  hearing  to  beneficiaries  requesting  it 
whose  claims  have  been  denied  or  not  acted  on  in  a 
timely  manner,  and  to  those  who  request  it  because 
they  believe  the  agency  has  taken  erroneous  action. 
The  agency  must  allow  beneficiaries  a  reasonable  time 
from  the  date  of  mailing  notices  of  adverse  actions  to 
request  hearings.  The  agency  may  conduct  group 
hearings  provided  that  it  follows  federal  and  state 
procedures  for  hearings  and  permits  each  beneficiary 
to  be  individually  represented. 

Guarantee  of  Maintenance  of  Service  Until  Determi¬ 
nation — The  agency  may  not  terminate  or  reduce 
services  until  a  decision  is  rendered  after  a  hearing 
unless  the  sole  issue  is  determined  to  be  one  of  law  or 
policy.  If  the  agency  action  is  upheld  at  the  hearing, 
the  state  may  institute  procedures  to  recoup  the  cost 
of  any  services  furnished  the  beneficiary  between  the 
time  of  agency  notice  of  adverse  action  and  the  time 
of  post-hearing  decision. 

Right  of  Review — If  the  local  level  evidentiary  hear¬ 
ing  results  in  the  denial  of  a  claim,  the  state  agency 
must  inform  the  beneficiary’  of  the  decision  and  of  the 
right  to  appeal  to  the  agency,  in  writing,  within  15 
days  of  mailing  the  notice.  Unless  the  beneficiary  re¬ 
quests  a  de  novo  hearing,  the  agency  may  review  the 
record  of  the  initial  evidentiary  hearing.  Hearings 
must  be  conducted  at  a  reasonable  time,  date  and 
place,  after  adequate  written  notice  of  the  hearing,  by 
impartial  individuals  who  have  not  been  involved  in 
the  initial  determination.  If  a  medical  assessment  is 
deemed  necessary,  this  must  be  obtained  at  the 
agency’s  expense. 

Meeting  Federal  Standards — The  agency  must  allow 
the  beneficiary  to: 

•  examine  the  content  of  the  beneficiary’s  case  file 

•  examine  all  documents  and  records  to  be  used  by 
the  agency  at  the  hearing 

•  bring  witnesses 

•  establish  pertinent  facts  and  circumstances 

•  present  argument 


•  confront  or  cross-examine  adverse  witnesses. 

The  hearing  decision  must  be  based  exclusively  on 
the  evidence  introduced  at  the  hearing.  The  record 
must  consist  only  of  the  transcript  and  exhibits,  all 
papers  and  requests  filed  in  the  proceeding,  and  the 
recommendation  or  decision  of  the  hearing  officer. 
The  beneficiary  must  have  access  to  the  record.  The 
decision  must  be  written,  summarize  the  facts,  identify 
the  relevant  law,  and  specify  the  reasons  for  the  deci¬ 
sion.  It  must  be  forthcoming  within  90  days  of  the  re¬ 
quest  for  a  hearing. 

A  Look  at  the  Medicaid  Procedures — Federal  Med¬ 
icaid  review  and  appeal  standards  are  relatively  strin¬ 
gent.  Many  of  the  federal  benefit  programs  do  not 
impose  upon  themselves  the  degree  of  accountability 
required  of  state  Medicaid  agencies.  In  addition,  the 
level  of  participation  of  beneficiaries  and  their  repre¬ 
sentatives  in  the  mandated  Medicaid  review  and 
appeal  process  is  higher  than  in  most  federal 
programs,  and  the  requirements  to  inform  benefi¬ 
ciaries  about  all  aspects  of  the  process  are  more 
substantial. 


Benefit  Program  Review  and  Appeal 
Procedures — Observations 

This  section  has  described  the  various  ways  in 
which  benefit  programs  structure  review  and  appeal 
procedures,  and  the  requirements  placed  on  benefici¬ 
aries  desiring  to  contest  adverse  claims  decisions.  The 
complexity  of  these  procedures  and  the  detailed 
understanding  necessary  for  beneficiaries  to  use  them 
effectively  appear  overwhelming.  Due  process  re¬ 
quires  benefit  programs  to  provide  certain  safeguards 
which  might  complicate  the  review  and  appeal  proc¬ 
ess  to  some  extent.  But  many  of  the  more  subtle  as¬ 
pects  of  the  procedures  described  are  intended  to 
serve  program  purposes  unrelated  to  due  process. 

The  statistics  on  the  number  of  reviews  and  appeals 
requested  which  accompany  each  benefit  program  de¬ 
scription  emphasize  this  problem.  In  each  program, 
the  number  of  initial  eligibility  applications  or  claims 
denied  is  significantly  larger  than  the  number  of  re¬ 
views  or  appeals  requested.  Despite  the  fact  that  in 
most  programs  the  percentage  of  reversals  of  denied 
claims  is  significant  at  both  the  review  and  appellate 
levels,  the  vast  majority  of  beneficiaries  receiving  ad¬ 
verse  determinations  do  not  take  advantage  of  these 
procedures.  No  systematic  analysis  has  been  done  of 
the  reasons  for  this.  It  is  possible  that  large  numbers 
of  beneficiaries  accept  claims,  trusting  in  the  fairness 
of  the  determination  process.  Other  plausible  reasons 


185 


for  not  pursuing  review  and  appeal  remedies  are  igno¬ 
rance  of  rights  or  inability  to  cope  with  the  com¬ 
plexity  of  the  process.  Failure  to  assert  rights  for 
these  reasons  amounts  to  a  denial  of  due  process. 


WHAT  ARE  THE  REVIEW  AND 
APPEALS  PROCEDURES  OF 
PRIVATE  LONG-TERM  CARE 
INSURANCE  POLICIES 

The  insurance  industry  generally  has  no  legal  obli¬ 
gation  to  provide  a  claims  review  and  appeal  pro¬ 
cedure.  If  individual  insurance  companies  elect  not 
to,  they  have  no  duty  to  implement  procedures  that 
conform  to  due  process  standards.  Some  insurance 
companies  may  view  such  procedures  as  good  public 
relations  or  as  providing  them  with  a  marketing  ad¬ 
vantage  in  a  highly  competitive  market.  Although  the 
review  and  appeal  procedure  itself  is  generally  not 
subject  to  regulation,  redress  may  be  available  in 
some  circumstances.  For  example,  failure  to  pay  valid 
claims  may  be  cause  for  intervention  by  state  insur¬ 
ance  departments.  Also,  employment-based  policies 
are  required  to  comply  with  certain  provisions  of 
ERISA,  including  that  there  be  a  review  process  and 
that  claims  determinations  be  made  in  a  timely 
manner. 

Earl  Pomeroy,  the  President  of  the  National  Asso¬ 
ciation  of  Insurance  Commissioners,  and  Insurance 
Commissioner  for  North  Dakota,  indicates  that  state 
regulation  has  not  been  concerned  with  requiring  in¬ 
surance  companies  to  provide  for  review  and  appeal 
of  denied  claims.  According  to  Mr.  Pomeroy,  in¬ 
surance  commissioners  are  reluctant  to  support  any 
regulations  that  would  remove  the  claims  settlement 
function  from  insurance  companies  and  put  it  under 
governmental  or  independent  control.26 

Two  insurance  carriers  with  experience  in  employ¬ 
ment  based  group  long-term  care  policies,  Aetna  and 
Travelers,  have  developed  internal  review  and  appeal 
procedures  and  written  criteria  for  eligibility  assess¬ 
ment.  Both  of  these  carriers  stress  the  importance  of 
an  assessment  instrument  that  can  be  used  by  assessors 
throughout  the  country  to  insure  consistent  benefit 
eligibility  assessment  for  all  insureds.  Both  carriers  use 
criteria  based  on  the  number  of  activities  of  daily 
living  (ADLs)  with  which  the  insured  requires  assist¬ 
ance.  The  criteria  are  stated  in  the  insurance  contract; 
but  internal  directives  offer  assessors  more  specific 
guidance  about  how  to  apply  the  criteria. 

26  Earl  Pomeroy,  telephone  conversation  with  author,  December  11,  1989. 


ORS  LTC  Aetna 

For  community-based  long-term  care,  the  Aetna 
plan  emphasizes  the  importance  of  the  on-site  visit  of 
a  case  manager/assessor  who  determines  an  insured’s 
functional  dependency  by  first-hand  observation.  The 
physician’s  statement  and  medical  record  form  part  of 
the  file  on  which  a  determination  is  made,  but  the 
measurement  of  ADLs  is  considered  the  most  impor¬ 
tant  information.27  The  Aetna  plan  provides  for  daily 
payment  of  a  flat  amount  to  insureds  meeting  the 
functional  dependency  criteria. 

The  procedure  for  review  of  denied  claims  is  not 
included  in  the  plan  information.  It  has,  however, 
been  described  by  an  Aetna  representative.  When  an 
individual  insured  under  the  ORS  LTC  Plan  requests 
coverage  on  account  of  functional  dependency,  Aetna 
sends  an  employee  or  contract  case  manager  to  do  an 
on-site  assessment  based  on  a  standard  set  of  criteria. 
The  case  manager — a  nurse  or  social  worker — must 
determine  whether  the  individual  is  functionally  de¬ 
pendent  in  at  least  two  ADLs  or  has  certain  other 
qualifying  disabilities.  The  case  manager  does  not  par¬ 
ticipate  in  the  determination  of  eligibility  for  benefit. 
She/he  makes  a  report  to  Aetna  which  considers  this, 
along  with  a  physician’s  statement  and  other  medical 
or  social  service  reports,  in  determining  the  whether 
or  not  the  insured  is  eligible  for  benefits. 

If  the  initial  claim  is  denied,  an  internal  claims  com¬ 
mittee  including  a  physician,  an  attorney  and  a  claims 
supervisor  unrelated  to  the  initial  decisionmaker  ex¬ 
amines  the  file.  The  committee  may  order  a  medical 
or  other  examination  or  additional  information. 

If  the  committee  denies  the  claim,  the  case  is  re¬ 
viewed  by  another  case  manager  working  with  the 
same  claims  committee.  The  insured  is  not  repre¬ 
sented  and  there  is  no  face-to-face  interview  with  the 
decisionmaker. 

If  the  committee  intends  to  deny  the  claim  again,  an 
Aetna  representative  talks  with  the  insured’s  family 
and  tries  to  help  them  understand  the  reasons  for  the 
claim  denial.  These  meetings  may  be  face-to-face  or 
on  the  telephone.  If  functional  dependence  has  not 
progressed  far  enough  to  warrant  coverage,  the 
family  or  insured  are  encouraged  to  reapply  in  a  few 
weeks  or  months.28 


27  Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  ORS  LTC  Plan,  Complete  Description,  De¬ 
cember  1988,  7  contains  detailed  listing  of  criteria. 

28  Joseph  Hancock,  Aetna  Insurance  Co.,  telephone  conversation  with 
author,  November  10,  1989. 


186 


Travelers  Long-Term  Care  Insurance  Plan 

The  Travelers  plan  offers  insureds  meeting  the  cri¬ 
teria  of  functional  dependency  the  option  of  receiving 
a  flat  daily  minimum  benefit  amount  or  a  payment  for 
actual  services  received  (or  up  to  five  times  the 
amount  of  the  minimum  benefit,  whichever  is  less). 
The  latter  option  requires  the  insured  to  accept  a  care 
plan  that  is  coordinated  by  a  case  manager  on 
contract  to  Travelers.  The  same  review  and  appeal 
process  is  available  to  insureds  who  have  either  been 
assessed  as  ineligible  for  long-term  care  benefits  or 
who  object  to  aspects  of  the  care  plan.  Eligibility  to 
receive  benefits  or  care  management  is  contingent  on 
the  insured  having  a  qualifying  disability  due  to  an  ac¬ 
cidental  injury  or  sickness.  The  insured  must  be  deter¬ 
mined  by  a  Travelers  representative  to  need  assistance 
with  two  or  more  ADLs  from  a  list  set  out  in  the 
Certificate  of  Insurance.29 

When  an  insured  first  requests  long-term  care  bene¬ 
fits  or  disputes  aspects  of  a  care  plan,  the  Patient  Care 
Coordinator,  a  Travelers  employee,  gathers  the  rele¬ 
vant  information,  speaks  with  the  insured’s  physician, 
family,  and  the  case  manager  in  order  to  develop 
background  information.  The  case  manager  then 
makes  an  on-site  evaluation  based  on  standardized  cri¬ 
teria  for  measuring  ability  to  complete  ADLs.  If  the 
case  manager  and  the  Patient  Care  Coordinator  agree 
to  deny  the  claim,  Travelers  sends  the  insured  a 
denial  letter.  This  letter  must  include  an  explanation 
of  the  reasons  for  denial  and  information  about  how 
to  request  a  review.  The  insured  is  encouraged  in  this 
letter  to  include  additional  information  considered  of 
value  to  the  reviewer  and  to  ask  for  copies  of  docu¬ 
ments  used  in  the  determination  process. 

An  insured  requests  a  review  by  contacting  the  Pa¬ 
tient  Care  Coordinator.  The  review  is  made  by  a  con¬ 
tract  physician  who  has  had  no  previous  involvement 
in  the  case.  If  the  review  results  in  a  denial,  the 
insured  may  appeal  to  have  a  board  certified  geriatri¬ 
cian,  on  contract  to  Travelers  and  not  previously  in¬ 
volved  in  the  case,  do  a  second  review.  A  denial  at 
this  stage  is  final. 

Decisions  are  made  within  60  days  of  receipt 
of  request  for  review  or  of  date  insured  supplies  all 
relevant  information.  Notice  of  denial  is  in  writing  ac¬ 
companied  by  reasons  for  the  decision  written  in  lan¬ 
guage  that  the  insured  can  understand.30  There  are 
no  face-to-face  meetings  with  the  decisionmaker 
except  for  the  initial  case  manager’s  assessment. 

29  Group  Long  Term  Care  Insurance  Plan  (October  1989),  4,  5. 

30  Aetna  Group  Long  Term  Care  Insurance  Plan  Claims  Information  (Oc¬ 
tober  1989),  3. 


WHAT  SHOULD  POLICYMAKERS 
CONSIDER  IN  DEVELOPING  THE 
REVIEW  AND  APPEAL  PROCESS  FOR 
A  LONG-TERM  CARE  PROGRAM? 

A  benefit  program’s  review  and  appeal  procedures 
should  be  developed  in  the  context  of  the  total  pro¬ 
gram.  Procedures  in  existing  programs  vary  consider¬ 
ably,  primarily  reflecting  the  diverse  objectives  of  the 
programs  themselves. 


Underlying  Program  Considerations 

Considerations  underlying  the  operations  of  these 
programs  significantly  influencing  the  structure  of  the 
review  and  appeal  process  include: 

•  Type  of  benefit 

•  Source  of  financing 

•  Structure  of  program  administration 

•  Cost  containment  measures 

Type  of  Benefit — The  criteria  for  establishing  initial 
and  continuing  eligibility  vary  substantially  depending 
on  type  of  benefit.  Some  benefit  programs  provide  a 
beneficiary  with  periodic  compensation  if  she/he  is 
determined  to  have  a  chronic  disability  that  results  in 
eligibility  (DI,  SSI,  DVA).  Others  reimburse  an  eligi¬ 
ble  individual  for  certain  specific  medical  or  skilled 
care  expenses,  or  determine  eligibility  for  a  benefit  on 
a  case-by-case  basis  in  advance  of  providing  a  specific 
service  (Medicare,  Medicaid).  Programs  providing 
regular  compensation  based  on  beneficiaries’  disabil¬ 
ities,  or  payment  for  treatment  of  chronic  medical 
conditions,  are  able  to  build  into  the  claims  process 
time  for  reasoned  initial  claims  determinations  (DVA, 
SSD,  SSI,  Medicaid).  In  programs  providing  reim¬ 
bursement  for  acute  medical  care  (Medicare)  this  is 
more  difficult. 

Source  of  Financing — Depending  on  a  benefit  pro¬ 
gram’s  source  of  financing,  its  review  and  appeal 
process  may  be  required  to  meet  differing  legal  re¬ 
quirements.  Generally,  entitlement  programs  are 
funded  from  federal  or  state  tax  revenues  (Medicaid, 
SSI).  These  have  more  stringent  due  process  require¬ 
ments  than  other  programs  because  they  serve  the 
most  vulnerable  segments  of  the  population.  Although 
DVA  programs  are  federally  funded,  the  historical 
justification  for  a  somewhat  limited  appeal  process 
was  that  these  benefits  were  discretionary.  The  social 
insurance  programs  (DI,  Medicare)  theoretically  have 
somewhat  more  latitude  in  meeting  due  process  re¬ 
quirements  for  review  and  appeal  procedures  than  do 
entitlement  programs.  In  practice,  however,  the 


187 


28-861  -  90  -  7  :  QL  3 


review  and  appeal  procedures  of  DI  are  governed  by 
the  same  statutory  and  regulatory  language  as  SSI. 

Structure  of  Program  Administration — When  a  bene¬ 
fit  program  directly  administers  its  own  review  and 
appeal  process,  its  obligation  to  provide  beneficiaries 
with  due  process  is  clear.  When  a  program  delegates 
authority  for  part  or  all  of  the  review  and  appeal 
process  to  a  private  organization,  the  legal  relation¬ 
ship  of  that  organization  to  the  agency  becomes  criti¬ 
cal  to  determining  its  due  process-related  obligations 
to  beneficiaries. 

Medicare — Medicare,  for  example,  has  delegated  an 
extraordinary  amount  of  authority  over  the  review 
and  appeal  processes  in  all  of  its  programs  to  various 
private  organizations — insurance  companies,  HMOs 
and  PROs.  Commentators  have  identified  two  key 
issues  resulting  from  this  delegation  that  those  design¬ 
ing  a  new  benefit  program  need  to  consider:  1)  the 
appropriateness  of  delegating  major  program  func¬ 
tions  to  private  organizations;  and  2)  the  adequacy  of 
the  procedures  under  this  arrangement  to  protect 
Medicare  beneficiaries’  interests.31 

The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  in  Schweiker  v. 
McClure,*2  decided  that  hearings  under  Medicare 
Part  B,  delegated  by  HCFA  to  private  insurance  car¬ 
riers,  are  constitutional  if  they  provide  adequate  pro¬ 
cedural  due  process.  Despite  this  decision,  the  issue  of 
the  appropriateness  of  delegating  benefit  determina¬ 
tions  to  private  contractors  remains  controversial.  In 
1986,  Congress  enacted  provisions  requiring  that,  at  a 
beneficiary’s  request,  HCFA  must  provide  for  a 
hearing  by  an  SSA  ALJ  on  appeal  from  a  Part  B  car¬ 
rier  hearing  if  the  amount  in  issue  exceeds  $500. 3  3 
Even  though  the  ALJ  is  an  employee  of  SSA,  the 
office  of  ALJ  is  mandated  to  provide  independent 
adjudication. 

Social  Security  Programs — The  Disability  Advisory 
Committee  to  the  Commissioner  of  Social  Security 
was  appointed  in  February  1989  to  examine  and  make 
recommendations  improving  the  effectiveness  of  the 
SSA  (disability  claims  review)  and  appeal  process.  As 
contractors  to  SSA,  state  DDSs  make  initial  claims 
and  reconsideration  determinations  regarding  eligi¬ 
bility  for  medical  disability  pensions.  The  committee 
reported  a  lack  of  uniformity  among  state  DDS  per¬ 
sonnel  in  application  of  standards  to  specific  eligibility 
determinations.  It  found  that  a  wide  variation  among 
states  in  allowance  rates  had  resulted  in  a  high  rate  of 
appeals  and  reversals  of  determinations  at  the  ALJ 


* 1  Eleanor  Kinney,  Medicare  Appeals  System,  97. 

32  456  U.S.  188  (1981). 

33  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395fT. 


level.34  It  recommended  that  SSA  pursue  specific 
management  initiatives  to  improve  uniformity  in,  and 
accountability  for,  disability  determinations  among 
DDSs.35 

Cost  Containment  Measures — Ideally,  cost  contain¬ 
ment  decisions  should  be  made  in  relationship  to  a 
benefit  program’s  basic  policies  and  practices,  not  in 
the  design  or  operation  of  its  review  and  appeal  pro¬ 
cedures.  Benefit  programs  have  been  criticized,  how¬ 
ever,  for  using  the  review  and  appeal  process  to 
balance  cost  containment  considerations  against  pro¬ 
gram  requirements  that  funds  be  disbursed  to  eligible 
beneficiaries. 

Containing  Costs  Within  Benefit  Programs — Two 
significant  approaches  to  containing  costs  are:  1)  to 
reduce  administrative  expenditures,  including  expendi¬ 
tures  on  review  and  appeal  procedures  and  2)  to  in¬ 
crease  determinations  of  noneligibility  for  benefits.36 
Selection  of  either  of  these  options  may  involve  both 
a  monetary  cost  to  the  program  and  a  cost  in  program 
credibility. 

The  first  approach  may  limit  an  agency  in  offering 
an  effective  review  and  appeal  process.  SSA,  for  ex¬ 
ample,  has  been  criticized  by  the  National  Association 
of  Disability  Examiners  (NADE)  when,  as  part  of  a 
drive  to  increase  administrative  efficiency,  it  placed  a 
limit  of  37  percent  on  the  number  of  cases  in  which 
disability  examiners  can  hire  consulting  physicians  to 
examine  beneficiaries.  NADE  asserts  that  this  seri¬ 
ously  disadvantages  beneficiaries  because  it  suppresses 
the  examiner’s  ability  to  create  an  adequate  record.37 
The  second  approach  may  result  in  incorrect  and 
unfair  disability  determinations.  These  could  lead,  in 
turn,  to  increased  resort  by  beneficiaries  to  the  review 
and  appeal  process.  A  recent  congressionally-man- 
dated  report  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare 
Home  Health  Care  that  examined  the  reasons  for  an 
overwhelming  number  of  home  care  benefit  denials 
found  that  the  increase  in  denials  was  related  in  part 
to  deliberate  HCFA  practices.38 

Containing  Costs  Through  Placement  of  Risk — Con¬ 
gress  has  developed  specific  policies  intended  to  con¬ 
tain  costs  by  placing  the  risk  for  inappropriate  use  of 
the  health  care  system  on  providers  and  beneficiaries 
rather  than  on  benefit  programs.  One  such  policy  re- 


34  Disability  Advisory  Committee  to  the  Commissioner  of  Social  Security, 
Report  (July  25,  1989),  1. 

35  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  Tab  B,  2,  17-18. 

36  Eileen  Sweeney,  National  Senior  Citizens  Law  Center,  conversation 
with  author  (Washington  D.C.:  November  1,  1989);  see  Duggan  v.  Bowen, 
691  F.Supp.  1487,  1500  (DDC  1988). 

37  K.J.  Gunter,  NADE  President,  letter  to  David  Rust,  Social  Security 
Administration,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  April  1989. 

38  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  to  Con¬ 
gress  and  the  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  1,  1989. 


188 


quires  prospective  payment  and  bases  it  on  pre-estab¬ 
lished  Diagnosis  Related  Groups  (DRGs)  within 
which  a  beneficiary’s  condition  falls.  It  bases  reim¬ 
bursement  on  the  average  length  and  cost  of  treat¬ 
ment  for  a  condition  rather  than  on  the  actual  cost  of 
services  provided. 

Another  policy  establishes  liability  in  beneficiaries 
and  providers  for  the  cost  of  services  already  pro¬ 
vided  that  are  not  covered  by  Medicare’s  “medically 
necessary”  standard.  A  policy  waiving  liability  of 
beneficiaries  or  providers  deemed  unaware  that  Medi¬ 
care  would  not  cover  the  service  was  adopted  subse¬ 
quently  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  the  first  policy.  In 
such  situations,  either  Medicare  or  the  provider  must 
bear  the  cost  of  the  care  provided.  If  Medicare  deter¬ 
mines  that  the  provider  should  have  been  aware  that 
the  service  or  confinement  was  not  covered  by  Medi¬ 
care,  the  provider  is  liable. 

Finally,  Congress  has  authorized  HCFA  to  contract 
with  risk  HMOs  to  provide  medical  care  to  those 
Medicare  beneficiaries  choosing  this  option.  These 
private  organizations  provide  care  to  members  based 
on  a  pre-determined  per  capita  fee.  Reimbursement 
from  Medicare  is  based  on  these  fees,  so  that  the 
burden  of  estimating  accurately  the  cost  of  medical 
care  for  a  contract  period  falls  on  the  HMO.  The 
HMO  is  able  to  pass  on  the  burden  of  underestimating 
costs  to  beneficiaries  by  limiting  or  denying  health 
care  in  certain  situations  in  order  to  reduce  costs. 

The  economic  and  public  policy  considerations  of 
risk  placement  are  complex.  Placing  a  heavy  risk  for 
incorrect  decisions  as  to  covered  services  on  pro¬ 
viders  has  led  them,  quite  naturally,  to  attempt  in  var¬ 
ious  ways  to  transfer  this  burden  to  beneficiaries. 

Transferring  Costs  to  Beneficiaries — SNFs  and 
HHA’s — With  respect  to  SNFs  and  HHAs,  Medicare 
Part  A  encourages  providers  to  transfer  the  risk  for 
noncovered  services  to  beneficiaries  by  requiring  ben¬ 
eficiary  claims  to  be  made  by  providers  on  behalf  of 
beneficiaries,  rather  than  by  beneficiaries  directly.  But 
Medicare  also  penalizes  providers  for  submitting  too 
many  beneficiary  requests  for  payment  for  services 
Medicare  does  not  cover. 

Frequently,  if  service  providers  are  unsure  about 
whether  Medicare  will  cover  the  costs  of  a  particular 
service,  they  simply  inform  beneficiaries  that  the  serv¬ 
ice  is  not  covered,  rather  than  waiting  for  a  Medicare 
determination  as  to  coverage.  In  this  way,  providers 
can  request  payment  directly  from  the  patient  and  not 
run  the  risk  of  providing  an  expensive  service  for 
which,  at  some  later  date,  Medicare  may  refuse  reim¬ 


bursement.39  This  practice  leaves  beneficiaries  unable 
to  exercise  their  review  and  appeal  rights  because 
technically  there  has  never  been  a  decision  of 
noncoverage  made  by  Medicare. 

Theoretically,  beneficiaries  can  demand  that  pro¬ 
viders  submit  claims  to  Medicare  on  their  behalf. 
Beneficiaries’  advocates  indicate  that  most  do  not  do 
so.  This  may  be  either  because  they  are  uninformed  of 
their  rights  or  are  unwilling  to  antagonize  the  pro¬ 
viders  whose  interests  they  perceive  as  conflicting 
with  their  own,  but  on  whom  they  depend  for  essen¬ 
tial  care.40  In  addition  to  inhibiting  beneficiaries  in 
the  exercise  of  their  review  and  appeal  rights,  a 
system  that  makes  providers  responsible  for  claims  de¬ 
cisions  undermines  the  trust  relationship  critical  to 
their  ability  to  serve  their  patients  effectively.  In  the 
case  of  Medicare,  the  result  has  been  to  increase  both 
beneficiary  and  provider  dissatisfaction  with  Medi¬ 
care’s  ability  to  make  fair  decisions. 

Recently,  HCFA  entered  into  a  settlement  agree¬ 
ment  with  representatives  of  beneficiaries  whereby  it 
agreed  to  require  that  providers  give  beneficiaries 
written  notice,  uniform  among  all  providers,  of  the 
right  to  request  a  Medicare  determination  if  the  pro¬ 
vider  decides  that  particular  services  are  not  covered 
by  Medicare,  and  to  withhold  request  for  payment 
until  after  the  fiscal  intermediary’s  initial  Medicare  de¬ 
cision.41  While  this  agreement  partially  alleviates  con¬ 
cerns  of  beneficiaries,  it  increases  the  burden  on 
providers,  and  inadequately  addresses  the  basic  source 
of  conflict  between  the  two.  A  policy  that  would 
allow  beneficiaries  to  submit  claims  themselves  and  to 
withhold  payment  until  they  are  either  reimbursed  or 
have  exhausted  appeal  rights  might  satisfy  benefici¬ 
aries’  concerns.  But  the  cost  to  providers  of  exten¬ 
sively  deferred  payment  for  services  would  be 
substantial. 

Transferring  Costs  to  Beneficiaries — Hospitals — For 
beneficiaries  in  hospitals,  the  verbal  request  from  the 
hospital  or  physician  that  the  patient  leave  could  also 
result  in  denial  of  covered  care.  Patients  are  given  a 
general  notice  of  rights  at  the  time  of  admission  that 
states,  among  other  things,  that  they  may  formally 
object  to  such  a  request.  Representatives  of  benefici¬ 
aries  are  concerned,  however,  that  most  patients 
would  not  be  able  to  advocate  effectively  about  their 
discharges  because  of  their  illness  or  the  stress  of  hos¬ 
pitalization.  Many  may  not  even  remember  receiving 


39  Susan  Pettey,  American  Association  of  Homes  for  the  Aging,  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author,  Washington,  D.C.,  November  30,  1989;  Selected  Staff  of 
Bureau  of  Program  Operations,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  con¬ 
versation  with  author  (Baltimore,  Md.:  November  17,  1989). 

40  William  Dombi,  National  Home  Care  Association,  conversation  with 
author  (Washington,  D.C.:  October  11,  1989). 

41  Sarrasat  v.  Sullivan.  C88-201-61  RPA  USDC,  NDCal.  (May  4,  1989). 


189 


a  statement  of  rights.42  Upon  being  told  it  is  time  to 
leave  the  hospital  and  that  Medicare  will  not  cover  a 
continued  stay,  most  beneficiaries  leave  voluntarily. 

But  the  request  itself  is  not  a  Medicare  determina¬ 
tion  of  noncoverage.  Particularly  where  the  hospital 
and  physician  agree  about  the  discharge,  beneficiaries 
rely  on  their  expert  judgment,  both  that  continued 
hospitalization  is  not  necessary,  and  that  Medicare 
will  no  longer  pay  for  it.  Because  of  the  DRG 
system,  hospitals,  in  particular,  have  incentives  similar 
to  SNFs  prematurely  to  discharge  beneficiaries  whose 
continued  stay  might  not  be  covered  by  Medicare. 
Otherwise,  they  may  be  held  liable  if  the  services  ulti¬ 
mately  are  not  covered  and  they  have  failed  to  so 
notify  the  beneficiary.  There  is,  however,  limited  pro¬ 
tection  of  beneficiaries  against  arbitrary  discharge:  if  a 
beneficiary  is  rehospitalized  in  any  hospital  for  a  simi¬ 
lar  condition  within  30  days  of  discharge,  the  hospital 
of  original  discharge  is  penalized. 

Program  Considerations  in 
Long-Term  Care 

Although  the  focus  of  a  long-term  care  program 
would  be  somewhat  different  from  that  of  the  existing 
benefit  programs,  each  of  the  program  considerations 
described  above  is  critical  to  the  design  of  its  review 
and  appeal  procedures.  In  addition,  particular  charac¬ 
teristics  of  the  benefits  and  structure  of  a  long-term 
care  program  will  have  an  impact  on  its  review  and 
appeal  procedures. 

Determination  of  Benefits — Significant  consider¬ 
ations  in  determining  eligibility  for  participation  in  a 
long-term  care  program  and  for  receiving  reimburse¬ 
ment  for  specific  services  are: 

•  Once  an  individual  is  determined  to  be  eligible 
for  long-term  care,  decisions  are  more  likely  to 
be  about  changes  in  the  amount  or  level  of 
services  to  which  she/he  is  entitled  than  about 
the  total  discontinuation  of  all  services  to  that 
individual 

•  A  beneficiary’s  needs  generally  will  be  for  custo¬ 
dial  or  social  support  rather  than  skilled  nursing 
or  medical  services 

•  When  available,  a  beneficiary’s  family  or  mem¬ 
bers  of  her/his  informal  support  system  are  likely 
to  participate  with  the  beneficiary  and  long-term 
care  program  staff  in  planning  for  a  beneficiary’s 
care 


42  Charles  C.  Hulin,  Center  for  Medicare  Advocacy,  telephone  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author,  November  8,  1989. 


•  Long-term  care  involves  decisionmaking  about 
benefits  to  meet  both  chronic  and  acute  care 
needs,  rather  than  focusing  on  one  or  the  other. 

•  The  central  role  of  the  case  manager — one  who 
designs,  coordinates  and  monitors  the  long-term 
care  plan  for  the  beneficiary — is  without  parallel 
in  existing  benefit  programs  in  terms  of  power 
over  the  beneficiary,  and  potential  for  ambivalent 
allegiance  between  the  client/beneficiary  and  the 
long-term  care  program  employer. 

Program  Structure — Inevitably,  some  decisions 
made  about  the  structure  of  the  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  will  have  adverse  economic,  social  or  therapeu¬ 
tic  consequences  for  beneficiaries.  Such  decisions  will 
be  a  basis  for  beneficiary  complaints.  These  include: 

•  whether  an  applicant  meets  the  various  eligibility 
criteria  such  as  sufficient  dependency  in  ADLs  to 
participate  in  the  program 

•  whether  the  setting  in  which  a  beneficiary  could 
benefit  most  is  community  or  institutional  care 

•  whether,  and  at  what  point,  a  beneficiary  is  eligi¬ 
ble  for  specific  benefits  or  services,  and  the  dura¬ 
tion  and  frequency  of  these  services 

•  establishing  the  appropriate  relationship  of  the 
individual  or  organization  responsible  for  assess¬ 
ing  eligibility  to  those  responsible  for  developing 
care  plans  or  making  specific  care-related  deci¬ 
sions  about  beneficiaries 

•  establishing  the  relationship  of  the  assessment  and 
care  management  functions  to  the  agency  financ¬ 
ing  the  long-term  care  program 

•  determining  the  mechanism  for  frequent  reassess¬ 
ment  of  a  beneficiary’s  needs  or  of  the  benefits  or 
services  to  be  provided  in  a  long-term  care 
program 

•  providing  quality  control  activities  such  as  moni¬ 
toring  the  level  of  services  provided  under  the 
long-term  care  program 

Claims  Decisionmaking  in  Long-Term  Care — In 
order  to  assure  the  credibility  of  the  program  with 
beneficiaries  and  the  general  public,  the  claims  deci¬ 
sionmaking  function  should,  to  the  extent  possible,  be 
independent  of  eligibility  assessment,  care  plan  design, 
monitoring  or  service  provision.  Confusion  of  roles 
could  arise  in  the  administration  of  a  long-term  care 
program  that  does  not  separate  these  functions 
adequately. 

The  Case  Manager — Care  Plan  Design  and  Moni¬ 
toring — The  role  of  the  case  manager  raises  issues 
regarding  review  and  appeal  procedures  that  arise  in¬ 
frequently  in  existing  benefit  programs.  (There  are 
probably  parallel  situations  in  home  health  care  under 


190 


Medicare  and  Medicaid,  and  in  Medicare  HMOs.) 
The  significant  care-related  decisions  in  a  long-term 
care  program  are  likely  to  be  made  by  a  case  man¬ 
ager — for  example,  a  nurse  or  social  worker — who 
establishes  a  care  plan  and  manages  the  care  to  be 
provided  the  beneficiary.  If  the  beneficiary  is  able  to 
remain  in  the  community,  the  case  manager  will  iden¬ 
tify  and  arrange  for  the  provision  of  appropriate  serv¬ 
ices  to  the  beneficiary,  and  determine  the  number  of, 
hours,  days  or  weeks  the  service  should  be  provided. 

A  critical  issue  for  the  case  manager  may  be  that  of 
serving  two  masters.  The  case  manager  must  have  a 
relationship  of  trust  with  the  beneficiary  in  order  to 
gain  the  cooperation  necessary  to  implement  appro¬ 
priate  care  decisions.  She/he  might  also  be  expected 
by  the  agency  financing  or  administering  the  program 
to  enforce  certain  program  guidelines  that  result  in 
containing  costs  by  limiting  services  or  benefits. 

Cost  Containment — Reasonable  cost  containment 
measures  would  include  efficient  division  of  the  case 
manager’s  time  among  beneficiaries,  or  developing 
care  plans  that  are  closely  tailored  to  a  beneficiary’s 
minimum  needs.  If  a  case  manager  is  unduly  vulner¬ 
able  to  pressure  from  the  benefit  program,  it  may 
become  difficult  to  resist  directives  to  increase  the 
case  load  or  trim  the  care  plan.  If  the  program  is  fi¬ 
nanced  similarly  to  Medicare  HMOs,  so  that  the  case 
manager  receives  a  flat  per-client  monthly  fee  based 
on  a  predetermined  estimate  of  cost  of  service  to  all 
clients  served,  there  is  likely  to  be  substantial  incen¬ 
tive  to  keep  costs  down.  If  this  occurs  at  the  expense 
of  fair  decisions  about  services  to  beneficiaries,  a  due 
process  problem  can  arise.  One  experienced  benefit 
program  administrator  warned  that  a  case  manager 
under  the  close  control  of  the  funding  agency,  making 
decisions  about  benefits,  generally  is  perceived  with 
skepticism  by  the  beneficiaries.43 

Mitigating  Considerations — According  to  the  Na¬ 
tional  Association  of  State  Units  on  Aging  (NASUA), 
the  experience  of  state  financed  long-term  care 
programs  is  that  case  managers  in  community  care 
programs  have  not  been  placed  in  conflicting  roles. 
Currently,  in  most  states,  the  cost  of  community  care 
is  tied  to  the  daily  nursing  home  rate  which  is  sub¬ 
stantially  higher  than  the  cost  of  services  in  the  com¬ 
munity.  Consequently,  home  care  programs  rarely 
spend  their  annual  budgets  and  are  under  no  pressure 
to  reduce  program  costs  beyond  appropriate  levels.  In 
addition,  community  long-term  care  case  managers 
may  tend  to  authorize  more  services  than  most  older 
persons  want.  Many  elderly  are  wary  of  managed 

4*  Patricia  Booth,  Division  of  Peer  Review,  Office  of  Peer  Review,  Health 
Quality  Standard  Bureau,  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author  (Baltimore  Md.:  November  17,  1989). 


care  programs  and  see  those  who  provide  these 
services  as  intruders  into  their  lives. 

Also,  the  community-based  nature  of  the  program 
may  work  as  a  counter-weight  to  any  bureaucratic 
pressures  on  case  managers  to  favor  administrative 
considerations  over  client  needs.  In  contrast  to  the 
Medicare  program,  whose  initial  decisionmakers  are 
distant,  inaccessible  insurance  companies,  community 
long-term  care  case  managers  are  attuned  to  commu¬ 
nity  values  and  are  required  to  maintain  an  ongoing 
relationship  with  clients  about  whom  they  make  ad¬ 
verse  decisions.44 


WHAT  HAS  BEEN  THE  EXPERIENCE 
OF  EXISTING  BENEFIT  PROGRAMS 
WITH  DEVELOPING  AND 
IMPLEMENTING  REVIEW  AND 
APPEAL  PROCEDURES  THAT  PROVIDE 
ADEQUATE  DUE  PROCESS? 

The  primary  purpose  of  due  process  is  not  to  insure 
that  as  many  beneficiaries  as  possible  be  determined 
eligible  for  benefits.  Rather  it  is  to  increase  the  ca¬ 
pacity  for  fair  and  accurate  decisionmaking  about 
beneficiaries’  rights — “to  pay  worthy  claims  and 
reject  unworthy  ones.”  45 


The  Complexity  of  the  Process 

The  review  and  appeal  procedures  of  each  of  the 
benefit  programs  described  in  this  report  are  required 
to  meet  constitutional  requirements  for  review  and 
appeal  procedures.  But  the  concepts  of  what  consti¬ 
tutes  due  process  are  complex  and  subject  to  differing 
interpretations. 

During  the  last  decade  the  review  and  appeal  pro¬ 
cedures  of  Medicare,  DI,  SSI  and  DVA  have  all  been 
the  targets  of  extensive  Congressional  oversight.  This 
has  led  to  legislation  revamping  some  of  these  proce¬ 
dures  in  order  to  provide  increased  due  process  to 
beneficiaries.  In  addition,  in  recent  years,  the  federal 
courts  have  ordered  the  agencies  administering  these 
programs  to  make  major  changes  in  review  and 
appeal  procedures  to  further  protect  beneficiaries.  Fi¬ 
nally,  several  administrative  commission  reports  and 
U.S.  General  Accounting  Office  audits  have  recom¬ 
mended  ways  to  ensure  an  improved  level  of  due 


44  Diane  Justice,  National  Association  of  State  Units  on  Aging,  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  15,  1989). 

45  Jerry  Mashaw,  “Bureaucratic  Justice,”  Symposium  on  Federal  Disability 
Benefit  Programs,  American  Bar  Association,  1985,  191. 


191 


process  for  beneficiaries.  Significant  goals  of  due 
process  addressed  in  this  section  include  the  right  to: 

•  Representation  by  lay  advocate  or  attorney 

•  Adequate  notice  and  timely  determinations 

•  Access  to  the  information  on  which  determina¬ 
tions  are  based 

•  A  decision  based  on  an  adequately  developed 
record 

•  Make  a  verbal  statement  in  front  of  the 
decisionmaker 

•  A  hearing  prior  to  denial  or  termination  of  a  ben¬ 
efit,  if  possible 

•  A  determination  by  an  impartial  decisionmaker 

This  section  examines  the  practical  difficulties  that 
benefit  programs  have  in  achieving  these  goals,  using 
illustrations  from  past  and  current  experience  of  these 
programs. 

Right  to  Representation 

Because  there  is  an  inherent  lack  of  parity  between 
the  two  parties,  vulnerable  elderly  or  disabled  bene¬ 
ficiaries  frequently  need  representation  when  con¬ 
fronting  powerful  government  benefit  programs.  In 
addition,  beneficiaries  may  need  assistance  of  trained 
individuals  in  order  to  prepare  adequately  for  reviews 
and  appeals. 

Despite  the  availability  of  several  sources  of  attor¬ 
ney  compensation,  a  significant  number  of  benefici¬ 
aries  do  not  have,  and  cannot  get,  legal  representation 
at  appellate  level  hearings.  In  addition,  few  benefici¬ 
aries  have  either  legal  or  lay  representation  during  the 
early  stages  of  the  review  process,  either  because  they 
are  not  adequately  informed  about  its  usefulness  and 
availability,  or  because  it  is  unavailable. 

Nonadversarial  Process — The  review  and  appeal 
process  in  benefit  programs  is  generally  considered 
nonadversarial.  Theoretically,  SSA  ALJs  and  the 
BVA  wear  three  hats — objective  judge,  government 
representative,  and  spokesperson  for  the  beneficiary, 
particularly  if  she/he  is  unrepresented.  The  govern¬ 
ment  is  not  represented  by  counsel  at  any  stage  of  the 
administrative  process.  Several  years  ago  SSA  de¬ 
cided  to  experiment  with  using  a  system  providing 
government  with  representation  by  counsel  at  benefi¬ 
ciaries’  hearings  before  an  ALJ.  Both  SSA  and  advo¬ 
cates  for  beneficiaries  indicate,  for  different  reasons, 
that  this  was  not  effective.  One  reason  on  which  both 
sides  agree  is  that,  as  the  procedure  became  increas¬ 
ingly  adversarial,  hearings  became  more  technical  and 


time  consuming.46  Eventually,  a  federal  court  ruled 
that  the  experiment  as  conceived  and  operated  by 
SSA  was  unconstitutional.47 

In  general,  both  advocates  and  agency  administra¬ 
tors  consider  that  the  nonadversarial  process  is  more 
effective  than  traditional  trial-type  procedures  would 
be.  Attorneys  representing  veterans  express  some 
concern  that  BVA  may  have  difficulty  maintaining  in¬ 
dependence  from  DVA  because  most  individuals  ap¬ 
pointed  to  serve  on  BVA  are  long-time  employees  of 
DVA  or  are  involved  in  other  ways  with  veterans’ 
groups.48 

Representation  in  Benefit  Programs — Representation 
increases  the  percentage  of  allowances  in  benefit  pro¬ 
grams.  All  benefit  programs  permit  beneficiaries  to  be 
represented  by  attorneys  or  lay  representatives  at 
some  stage  in  the  claims  process.  Although  early  rep¬ 
resentation  may  increase  the  likelihood  that  benefici¬ 
aries  will  be  satisfied  with  benefit  program  decisions, 
most  programs  do  not  encourage  this.49 

— Historically,  DI  and  SSI  have  permitted  legal 
or  lay  representation  from  the  earliest  stage  of  the 
claims  process.  As  a  practical  matter,  however,  bene¬ 
ficiaries  generally  are  not  represented  until  the  hear¬ 
ing  before  an  ALJ.  According  to  SSA,  85  percent  of 
beneficiaries  appearing  before  an  ALJ  are  repre¬ 
sented,  67  percent  of  these  by  attorneys.50 

Medicare — In  Medicare  proceedings,  beneficiaries 
generally  are  not  represented  until  the  ALJ  hearing,  if 
at  all.  Medicare  rules  permit  representation  at  a  Part 
B  carrier  level  hearing  and  at  an  HMO  reconsider¬ 
ation  hearing,  if  the  beneficiary  requests  such  a  hear¬ 
ing.  Under  Part  A,  there  are  no  hearings  by  Medicare 
officials  or  agents,  but  beneficiaries  have  a  right  to  an 
ALJ  hearing  at  which  they  can  be  represented.  The 
PRO’S  obligation  to  contact  beneficiaries  personally 
to  discuss  disputes  over  hospital  discharge  is  not  a 
hearing  as  contemplated  by  due  process. 

DVA — The  DVA  has  a  long  history  of  preferring 
lay  over  legal  representation  at  all  levels  of  the  proc¬ 
ess.  Until  recently,  there  was  a  statutory  limit  on  at¬ 
torneys’  fees,  dating  from  after  the  Civil  War,  of  ten 
dollars  per  case.  Charging  fees  in  excess  of  this 


48  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author;  Jean  Hinckley,  Social  Secu¬ 
rity  Administration,  conversation  with  author,  November  6,  1989. 

47  Sailing  v.  Bowen,  641  F.Supp.  1046,  USDC  WDVA,  (1986). 

48  Michael  Wildhaber,  National  Veterans  Legal  Services  Project,  conver¬ 
sation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  December  4,  1989). 

49  Ayn  Crawley,  Legal  Counsel  for  the  Elderly,  conversation  with  author 
(Washington,  D.C.:  November  2,  1989);  Jean  Hinkley,  conversation  with 
author. 

50  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Social  Security 
Administration,  “Attorney  Fees  Under  Title  II  of  the  Social  Security  Act.” 
Report  to  Congress,  July  1988,  12. 


192 


amount  was  a  felony.  For  many  years,  congressionally 
chartered  veterans’  service  organizations  have  repre¬ 
sented  beneficiaries  in  these  proceedings  for  free  from 
filing  the  initial  claim  through  the  appeal  to  BVA. 
The  law  requires  service  organizations  to  represent 
any  veteran  requesting  it  regardless  of  service  organi¬ 
zation  membership  or  apparent  validity  of  the  claim. 
The  proposed  rules  of  the  newly  established  Court  of 
Veterans  Appeals  authorize  legal  counsel  and  certified 
lay  representatives  to  represent  beneficiaries  before 
the  Court.  Attorneys  may  represent  beneficiaries  in 
BVA  proceedings,  but  only  after  a  case  has  gone 
before  the  BVA  and  been  denied,  and  is  being  re¬ 
opened  at  the  initial  decision  level  for  a  new  review 
and  appeal  cycle. 

Critics  of  the  service  organization  representation 
system  contend  that  these  organizations  are  too 
closely  tied  to  DVA  to  be  able  to  provide  fair  repre¬ 
sentation  in  claims  against  DVA.51  Service  organiza¬ 
tion  representatives  consider  that  their  frequent  and 
close  contact  with  DVA  enables  them  to  negotiate 
quite  effectively  on  behalf  of  clients.52 

Fees — Frequently,  beneficiaries  are  not  represented 
by  attorneys  at  benefit  hearings  because  they  cannot 
afford  the  fees.  Under  the  Social  Security  Act,  if  a 
beneficiary  prevails  in  a  DI  case,  the  ALJ  may  order 
that  a  payment  of  up  to  25  percent  of  the  amount  of  a 
past  due  claim  be  withheld  from  SSA’s  payment  to 
the  beneficiary  and  paid  directly  to  the  attorney.  In 
SSI  and  Medicare  cases,  the  ALJ  may  order  the  same 
amount  of  payment,  but  SSA  and  HCFA  do  not 
deduct  the  amount  from  beneficiary’s  check.53  The 
amount  of  payment  for  services  rendered  earlier  than 
the  ALJ  stage  in  these  programs  is  between  benefici¬ 
ary  and  counsel. 

Under  the  Veterans  Judicial  Review  Act,  attorneys 
seeking  compensation  directly  from  beneficiaries  must 
file  a  copy  of  the  fee  agreement  with  the  Court  of 
Veterans  Appeals  which  may  affirm  the  agreement  or 
order  it  reduced.  Decisions  to  affirm  are  based  on  rea¬ 
sonableness  of  the  fee.  If  an  attorney  has  a  contingent 
fee  arrangement  with  the  beneficiary,  it  may  not 
exceed  20  percent  of  past-due  benefits.54 

BVA  may  determine  a  reasonable  fee  for  adminis¬ 
trative  representation  which  also  may  not  exceed  20 
percent  of  past-due  benefits  for  contingent  representa¬ 
tion.  DVA  is  setting  up  a  system  to  pay  attorneys 
whose  clients  prevail  prior  to  sending  the  past-due 
benefits  to  beneficiaries. 


61  Michael  Wildhaber,  conversation  with  author. 

62  John  A.  Sommer,  Jr.  and  Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  American  Legion,  con¬ 
versation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  January  16,  1990). 

63  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  206(a);  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1631(dX2). 

64  38  U.S.C.,  Sec.  4063. 


Attorneys  representing  benefit  program  benefici¬ 
aries  before  federal  courts  may  receive  compensation 
under  the  Equal  Access  to  Justice  Act.55  They  will 
also  be  able  to  receive  compensation  from  this  source 
for  representation  before  the  Court  of  Veterans 
Appeals. 

Legal  services  attorneys  sometimes  represent  low- 
income  beneficiaries  at  ALJ  hearings.  In  addition, 
some  states  (e.g.  CT,  CA)  have  created  services  that 
represent  beneficiaries  in  Medicare,  DI  and  SSI  cases. 
If  a  significant  number  of  individuals  can  be  trans¬ 
ferred  from  state  to  federal  benefit  program  rolls,  ef¬ 
fective  advocacy  can  reduce  state  expenditures  on 
health  care  benefits. 


Adequate  Notice 

Due  process  requires  that  beneficiaries  receive  two 
types  of  notice:  claims  denials  and  procedures  for 
review  and  appeal.  Frequently,  benefit  programs  com¬ 
bine  both  types  of  notice  in  one  missive. 

Elements  of  Notice — 

Denial  of  Benefits — When  an  individual’s  medical 
condition  or  eligibility  for  skilled  care  are  at  issue,  the 
denial  or  termination  notice  must  indicate  why 
her/his  condition  does  not  warrant  a  particular  dis¬ 
ability  status,  course  of  treatment  or  level  of  care.56 
Implementation  of  this  requirement  has  resulted  in  liti¬ 
gation.  A  federal  district  court  has  decided,  for  exam¬ 
ple,  that  if  a  particular  administrative  procedure,  such 
as  a  utilization  screen,  is  used  to  determine  that  an  in¬ 
dividual  is  no  longer  entitled  to  a  particular  course  of 
treatment,  the  notice  must  identify  the  screen.  In  this 
way,  a  beneficiary  can  rebut  the  validity  of  its  appli¬ 
cation  in  her/his  case.57 

Beneficiaries’  Rights — In  addition,  notice  must  con¬ 
tain  information  about  beneficiary’s  appeal  rights:  the 
time,  date  and  place  of  filing  a  request  for  appeal  and 
any  hearings  that  the  beneficiary  is  entitled  to  attend. 
Benefit  programs  have  been  criticized  for  distributing 
unclear  statements  of  beneficiaries’  rights  or  notices 
containing  differing  outcomes  or  inconsistent  informa¬ 
tion  regarding  the  determination  of  similar  claims.58 

Another  ground  for  dissatisfaction  is  that  benefit 
programs  place  the  initiative  for  requesting  reviews 
on  beneficiaries  by  not  automatically  informing  them 


55  28  U.S.C,  Sec.  2417  (b),  (d). 

58  Gray  Panthers  v.  Schweiker,  652  F.2d  146,  1981. 

87  Vorster  v.  Bowen,  709  F.Supp.  934,  (CDCal.  1989)  1989. 

58  Michael  Parks,  Bet  Tzedek  Legal  Services,  telephone  conversation  with 
author,  October  23,  1989;  Susan  Pettey,  conversation  with  author. 


193 


that  certain  types  of  review  procedure  are  available. 
For  example,  veterans’  service  organizations  have 
criticized  DVA  for  not  publicizing  the  availability  to 
beneficiaries  of  certain  intermediate  level  hearings  or 
of  BVA  reconsideration  hearings.59 

Inconsistent  Notice — Frequently,  inconsistency  re¬ 
sults  when  a  benefit  program  delegates  its  review  and 
appeal  functions  to  contract  organizations  without  re¬ 
taining  substantial  control  over  their  performance. 
Currently,  for  example,  presentation  to  Medicare  Part 
A  beneficiaries  of  notice  of  appeal  rights  at  time  of 
discharge  depends  on  the  policies  of  individual  hospi¬ 
tals.  The  Administrative  Conference  of  the  United 
States  60  has  recommended  that  HCFA  amend  PRO 
regulations  to  ensure  that  all  Medicare  beneficiaries 
are  informed  of  their  appeal  rights  at  the  time  they 
are  notified  of  the  hospital’s  intention  to  discharge 
them. 

The  review  practices  of  Medicare  HMOs,  including 
content  of  notices,  are  almost  totally  unsupervised  by 
HCFA.  Although  HCFA  instructs  HMOs  to  provide 
beneficiaries  with  written  reasons  for  denial,  HCFA  is 
aware  that  many  do  not  comply.61  In  response  to 
pressure  from  the  courts,  HCFA  is  taking  more  direct 
responsibility  for  the  conduct  of  its  SNF  and  HHA 
contractors  regarding  notice  procedures.62 

Clarity  of  Notice — Although  beneficiaries’  repre¬ 
sentatives  generally  laud  Medicare  for  providing  all 
hospitalized  beneficiaries  with  a  general  notice  of 
their  appeal  rights  on  admission,  some  also  consider 
this  statement  to  be  unnecessarily  vague.63  Others 
concede  that  a  general  notice,  meaningful  to  all  bene¬ 
ficiaries,  is  especially  difficult  to  formulate.64  The 
Disability  Advisory  Committee  recently  has  recom¬ 
mended  that  SSA  improve  its  review  and  appeal 
process  by  providing  beneficiaries  with  “written  clari¬ 
fication  of  the  law  and  regulations  so  as  to  specify 
the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  the  parties  to  the 
process.  .  65 

Problems  With  Notice  of  Denial — Many  benefit  pro¬ 
gram  notices  lack  clarity  and  specificity.  Simplicity  of 
language  is  particularly  important  when  the  benefici¬ 
ary  population  is  relatively  uneducated.  But  notices 


59  John  A.  Sommer,  Jr.  and  Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with 
author. 

80  Recommendation  89-1,  Peer  Review  and  Sanctions  in  the  Medicare 
Program,  June  12,  1989. 

6 1  Carlos  Zarabosa,  Office  of  Prepaid  Health  Care,  Health  Care  Financing 
Administration,  conversation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  27, 
1989). 

82  Sarrassat  v.  Sullivan,  C88-201-61  RPA  USDC,  NDCal.  (May  4,  1989). 

83  Charles  C.  Hulin,  conversation  with  author,  Alfred  Chiplin;  National 
Senior  Citizens  Law  Center,  conversation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.: 
November  13,  1989). 

84  Alan  K.  Kaplan,  Consultant  on  Medicare  PROs,  conversation  with 
author  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  15,  1989). 

85  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  2. 


are  required  to  provide  beneficiaries  with  a  lot  of  in¬ 
formation,  so  that  both  language  and  presentation 
quickly  become  complicated.  In  addition,  computer¬ 
ization  of  notices  has  rigidified  notice  design.  Fre¬ 
quently,  rather  than  using  lay  vocabulary,  the 
language  of  a  notice  tracks  the  wording  of  a  statute  or 
regulation.  A  professor  of  linguistics  who  has  con¬ 
sulted  to  the  Social  Security  Administration  on  re¬ 
writing  its  notices  has  observed  that  “bureaucrats 
learn  to  use  the  jargon  and  acronyms  of  their  own 
agencies  but  they  tend  to  exert  little  effort  to  commu¬ 
nicate  effectively  with  the  world  outside  the 
agency.”  66 

Criticisms  of  Notices — The  description  of  the  reasons 
for  benefit  denial  or  termination  seem  especially  diffi¬ 
cult  to  articulate.  Recent  legislation  responding  to  a 
GAO  criticism  of  DVA  notices  requires  DVA  to 
include  more  specific  reasons  in  its  claims  denial  no¬ 
tices.67  GAO  found  that  in  60  percent  of  compensa¬ 
tion  cases  notices  inadequately  explained  reasons  for 
denial.  In  the  same  report,  GAO  applauded  SSA  for 
successfully  reforming  its  disability  denial  notices  in 
response  to  a  1980  Congressional  mandate  that  it 
“provide  more  information  and  personalize”  these  no¬ 
tices.68  In  recent  years,  Medicare  Part  A  denial  no¬ 
tices  have  become  more  responsive.  Beneficiaries  now 
receive  a  checklist  indicating  reasons  for  denial. 

In  addition,  the  Medicare  Part  B  Carriers  Manual 
instructs  carriers  to  write  review  determination  letters 
at  the  sixth  to  seventh  grade  level,  and  indicates  how 
to  establish  this  reading  level.69  There  is  no  system¬ 
atic  information  available  on  the  success  of  this  effort. 

Informal  Verbal  Denials — Another  problem  related 
to  the  inadequate  denial  notice  is  the  informal  verbal 
denial.  The  Vietnam  Veterans  of  America  Legal 
Services,  “Self-Help  Guide  on  VA  Claims,”  for  exam¬ 
ple,  warns  veterans  not  to  be  discouraged  if,  over  the 
phone  or  at  the  front  desk,  a  VA  employee  tells  them 
they  are  not  entitled  to  benefits.70  Advocates  for  DI 
and  SSI  beneficiaries  indicate  that  SSA  employees 
sometimes  discourage  individuals  from  applying  for 
benefits.71 

This  sort  of  denial,  which  does  not  have  the  sanc¬ 
tion  of  law  in  any  benefit  program,  would  be  difficult 


88  Roger  W.  Shuy,  “Changing  Language  Policy  in  a  Bureaucracy,” 
Georgetown  University  Roundtable:  1987,  152. 

87  38  U.S.C.,  Sec.  3004  (1989). 

88  General  Accounting  Office,  Veteran’s  Benefits:  Improvements  Needed  in 
Processing  Disability  Claims  (Washington,  D.C.:  June  22,  1989). 

89  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services,  Medicare  Carriers  Manual,  Part  3,  Claims  Process,  Revision 
1291,  sec.  12010.2,  February  1989,  12-15. 

70  Vietnam  Veterans  of  America  Legal  Services,  Self-Help  Guide  on  VA 
Claims,  February  1988,  1. 

7 1  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author. 


194 


for  a  beneficiary  to  prove.  Recently  enacted  legisla¬ 
tion  allows  an  eligible  beneficiary  proving  that  such  a 
conversation  occurred  in  a  DI  or  SSI  case  to  receive 
benefits  back-dated  to  the  initial  inquiry.72  Problems 
raised  by  providers’  verbal  denials  to  beneficiaries,  es¬ 
pecially  in  hospital,  SNF  and  home  care  situations, 
are  discussed  in  Section  V,  above. 


The  Toll-Free  Number 

Benefit  programs  have  instituted  toll  free  numbers 
as  a  means  of  enabling  beneficiaries  to  make  claims- 
related  inquiries,  including  inquiries  about  un¬ 
clear  information  in  notices.  According  to  HCFA,  the 
Medicare  Part  B  800-number,  which  is  operated  by 
the  carriers  that  process  these  claims,  has  had  27.8 
million  inquiries  in  the  past  year,  80  percent  of  which 
were  claim  related. 

SSA  also  has  a  toll  free  number  for  claims  inquiries. 
The  number  was  instituted  along  with  a  cut-back  of 
District  Office  personnel.  Critics  claim  that  there  is 
not  enough  staff  to  answer  all  of  the  phone  calls,  so 
that  beneficiaries  frequently  cannot  get  through  to  an 
SSA  representative.73 

The  Veterans’  Assistance  Service,  with  a  Washing¬ 
ton  office  and  several  regional  offices,  receives  a  large 
number  of  calls.  It  appears  to  be  reasonably  effective 
in  providing  information  about  claim  and  appeal  pro¬ 
cedures  to  callers.  Beneficiaries’  representatives  indi¬ 
cate  that  the  information  provided  may  not  always  be 
reliable,  and  suggests  that  beneficiaries  write  directly 
to  DVA  general  and  claims  related  information.74 


Timeliness  of  Review 

In  addition  to  adequate  notice,  due  process  requires 
expeditious  review,  particularly  when  the  disputed 
benefits  provide  essential  living  allowances  or  critical 
medical  care.  In  practice,  all  benefit  programs  have 
difficulty  achieving  speedy  resolution  of  disputed 
claims. 

The  length  of  time  involved  in  asserting  review  and 
appeal  rights  in  benefit  programs  from  initial  claim 
submission  to  final  agency  appellate  review  may  be  a 
substantial  disincentive  to  beneficiaries’  pursuit  of 
their  review  and  appeal  rights. 

72  p  l  101-239,  Sec.  10302,  Congressional  Record,  November  21,  1989, 

H9444. 

73  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author. 

74  Michael  Wildhaber,  conversation  with  author. 


Although  most  agencies  provide  guidance  as  to  an 
acceptable  length  of  time  to  review  a  case,  few  re¬ 
quire  by  regulation  that  the  various  stages  of  adminis¬ 
trative  review  be  completed  within  a  pre-established 
time  period.  Medicare  insurance  carriers’  contracts 
with  HCFA  contain  numerical  targets  for  processing 
claims  and  review  requests  which  are  monitored  by 
HCFA.75  One  negative  result  of  setting  quantitative 
goals  and  quotas  for  review  of  claims  has  been  deter¬ 
minations  based  on  inadequately  developed  records.76 
The  Disability  Advisory  Committee  recognized  that 
due  process  rights  should  not  be  sacrificed  to  con¬ 
cerns  about  processing  time.77 

Despite  their  sympathy  for  the  need  to  develop 
adequate  records,  beneficiaries’  representatives  com¬ 
plain  that  the  review  process  generally  takes  an  inor¬ 
dinate  amount  of  time.  Although  program  statistics 
bear  out  the  validity  of  this  criticism,  there  has  been 
little  litigation  on  the  subject  of  timely  review  in  ben¬ 
efit  programs. 

Benefit  Program  Performance — Available  figures  in¬ 
dicate  that  average  processing  times  for  administrative 
review  and  appeal  can  be  as  long  as  two  years.  In  the 
DVA,  for  example,  original  claims  average  90  to  150 
days  to  process.  The  average  time  for  a  claim  to  go 
from  initial  denial  to  the  final  administrative  appeal 
level,  the  BVA,  is  about  one  year.78  The  BVA  takes 
an  average  of  151  days  to  render  its  decision.  The 
time  variations  among  fiscal  intermediaries  in  review¬ 
ing  Medicare  Part  A  claims  are  great.  One  beneficiary 
representative  reports  that  some  cases  take  as  long  as 
eight  months  in  the  initial  review  stage  and  an  addi¬ 
tional  two  to  eight  months  for  reconsideration.79 

In  May  1989,  Medicare  Part  B  claims  took  224  days 
from  request  to  ALJ  hearing.  Medicare  Part  B  cases 
reaching  the  ALJ  determination  level  between  Janu¬ 
ary  1987  and  June  1989  took  an  average  of  154  days 
from  filing  to  decision  for  on-the-record  reviews  and 
299  days  for  in-person  hearings.  The  most  time-con¬ 
suming  step  in  the  in-person  hearing  process  was  the 
assignment  of  cases  to  analysts  in  SSA’s  Development 
Center,  a  recently  created  body  that  reviews  Medi¬ 
care  cases  prior  to  assignment  to  the  ALJ.80 

DI  and  SSI  cases  may  take  as  long  as  676  days 
from  filing  initial  claim  request  until  the  ALJ  renders 


75  42  U.S.C.  Sec.  1 395u(bX2XB). 

7  6  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author;  John  A.  Sommer  Jr.  and 
Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with  author. 

77  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  7. 

78J.H.  Spindle  and  Robert  Yurgal,  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs,  con¬ 
versation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  January  6,  1990). 

7  9  Charles  C.  Hulin,  telephone  conversation  with  author. 

80  General  Accounting  Office,  Medicare  Statistics  on  the  Part  B  Administra¬ 
tive  Law  Judge  Hearings  Process.  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  1989). 


195 


a  decision.  SSA  has  targeted  shortening  the  length  of 
time  for  review  and  appeal  a  necessary  reform.81 

Until  recently,  the  backlog  of  HMO  cases  awaiting 
HCFA  reconsideration  was  substantial,  the  average 
case  taking  one  to  one-and-a-half  years  to  get  through 
the  reconsideration  stage.  As  a  result  of  Levy  v. 
Bowen ,82  however,  HCFA  has  agreed  to  require 
HMOs  to  limit  the  time  allowed  for  review  to  up  to 
60  days  after  a  beneficiary  files  a  request  for  review. 
Also,  NDG,  the  organization  with  which  HCFA  has 
contracted  to  review  all  HMO  denials  and  make  re¬ 
consideration  decisions,  has  been  working  to  reduce 
the  backlog  of  cases.  By  October  1989,  NDG  had 
cleared  up  all  but  21  of  the  1988  backlog  of  562  cases, 
in  addition  to  processing  about  75  percent  of  the  1989 
cases.83 

Circumstances  Requiring  Speedy  Decisionmaking — 
Because  of  the  importance  of  rendering  a  Medicare 
decision  immediately  prior  to  hospital  discharge,  the 
PRO  review  and  reconsideration  process  is  designed 
to  move  unusually  quickly.  Under  certain  circum¬ 
stances,  this  decision  might  be  reversed  at  a  later  date. 

The  extended  time  period  for  claims  decisions  often 
adversely  affects  providers  as  well  as  beneficiaries. 
Consequently,  regarding  Medicare  Part  A  SNFs  and 
HHAs,  both  beneficiaries’  advocates  and  providers 
have  recommended  that  HCFA  develop  a  mechanism 
for  initial  claims  determination  that,  like  the  PRO 
process,  would  be  speedy  and  performed  by  qualified 
experts.84  An  advisory  commission  on  home  health 
care  has  recommended  an  expedited  appeal  to  an  in¬ 
dependent  entity  at  the  request  of  the  beneficiary  or 
provider.85  This  would  alleviate  concerns  about  bene¬ 
ficiaries  or  providers  having  to  expend  funds  in  ad¬ 
vance  of  decisions  about  reimbursement  and  enable 
beneficiaries,  their  families  and  providers  to  make 
more  realistic  care-related  decisions. 


Access  to  Information  on  Which 
Determinations  are  Based 

Determinations  denying  benefits  for  reasons  related 
to  medical  condition  or  level  of  care  are  based  on 
whether  the  beneficiary’s  condition  is  considered  as 
covered  within  the  policies  of  the  benefit  program.  A 
beneficiary  cannot  effectively  argue  that  her/his  con¬ 
dition  or  circumstance  is  covered  by  benefit  program 


81  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  2. 

82  CD  CA,  June  20,  1989. 

83  Sylvia  Hendel,  conversation  with  author. 

84  Charles  C.  Hulin,  conversation  with  author;  Susan  Pettey,  conversation 
with  author. 

85  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  to  Con¬ 
gress  and  Health  Care  Financing  Administration,  July  1,  1989. 


policies  or  criteria  unless  these  are  known  to  the  ben¬ 
eficiary.  In  order  to  prepare  a  case  adequately,  the 
beneficiary  needs  access  to  any  information  about 
benefit  program  criteria  or  policies  that  might  influ¬ 
ence  the  benefit  determination. 

Problems  in  Obtaining  Critical  Information — 

Dissastisfaction  with  the  existing  level  of  benefit  pro¬ 
gram  accountability  to  beneficiaries  regarding  adverse 
determinations  or  publication  of  policies  that  might 
adversely  affect  beneficiaries  is  widespread.  Critical 
information  frequently  unavailable  to  beneficiaries  and 
their  representatives  or  difficult  to  obtain  includes: 

•  basic  manuals  containing  detailed  operating  in¬ 
structions  for  claims  examiners  and  reviewers 

•  screens  and  other  criteria  used  to  eliminate  bene¬ 
ficiaries  with  certain  types  of  conditions  or  situa¬ 
tions  from  consideration  for  benefits 

•  internal  program  guidelines  or  informal  di¬ 
rectives  to  individuals  making  or  reviewing 
claims  determinations 

•  major  program-wide  decisions  that  have  the 
effect  of  general  policy  statements,  but  are  not  of¬ 
fered  for  public  comment  prior  to  implementation 

Although  all  benefit  programs  have  been  criticized 
to  some  degree  for  inaccessibility  of  critical  informa¬ 
tion,  Medicare  appears  to  be  the  most  problematic.  In 
part,  this  may  be  because  of  the  wide  latitude  given 
contractors  to  interpret  Medicare  rules  in  the  review 
and  appeals  process.  In  addition,  the  decentralized 
administration  of  the  Medicare  program  gives  rise  to 
inconsistent  interpretations  of  policies  and  directives, 
and  makes  careful  monitoring  of  the  day-to-day 
aspects  of  the  review  and  appeal  process  virtually 
impossible. 

Program  Rationale  for  Limiting  Access  to  Informa¬ 
tion — The  Administrative  Procedure  Act  86  requires 
federal  administrative  agencies  to  ensure  that:  the 
public  be  given  an  opportunity  to  comment  on  pro¬ 
posed  rules;  the  agency  consider  the  comments;  and 
final  rules  be  published  prior  to  implementation.  The 
purpose  of  this  provision  is  to  encourage  public  par¬ 
ticipation  and  fairness  to  parties  affected  by  the  pro¬ 
posed  rules,  and  to  increase  public  acceptance  of  the 
validity  of  the  new  policies.87 

The  Administrative  Conference  of  the  United 
States  has  consistently  urged  HHS  to  provide  greater 
opportunity  for  public  comment  on  its  policies  for 

88  5  U.S.C.,  Sec.  553. 

87  T.S.  Jost,  “Administrative  Law  Issues  Involving  Medicare  Utilization 
and  Quality  Control  PRO  Program:  Analysis  and  Recommendation,”  Ohio 
State  Law  Journal,  50,  (1)  (1989):  10. 


196 


making  coverage  and  payment  determinations.88  The 
rationale  of  benefit  programs  for  resorting  instead  to 
manual  transmittals,  program  instructions  and  con¬ 
tracts  that  are  not  made  available  to  the  general 
public,  may  be  that  the  Administrative  Procedure  Act 
rulemaking  procedures  have  become  too  burdensome 
and  time-consuming  for  programs  with  rapidly  chang¬ 
ing  needs  and  circumstances.  The  legal  justification 
for  by-passing  this  statute  is  that  technically  its  lan¬ 
guage  does  not  encompass  these  types  of  materials.89 

Recent  Case  Law — A  number  of  cases  examine 
issues  relating  to  the  promulgation  of  manuals  and 
other  limited  circulation  materials  used  in  making 
claims-related  decisions.  Through  these  decisions  the 
courts  may  be  imposing  a  kind  of  accountability  on 
benefit  programs. 

Reliance  on  Unpublished  Policies — In  Duggan  v. 
Bowen,90  the  court  found  that  the  Medicare  program 
had  promulgated  a  policy  by  letter,  the  effect  of 
which  was  to  limit  reimbursement  for  part-time  or 
intermittent  home  care  under  Part  A.  The  policy  itself 
violated  the  Medicare  Act  and  the  manner  of  its  pro¬ 
mulgation  violated  the  Administrative  Procedure  Act. 
HCFA  had  minimal  regulations  addressing  the  provi¬ 
sion  of  part-time  or  intermittent  care.  Instead  it  relied 
on  policy  statements  found  in  manuals  and  transmit¬ 
tals,  none  of  which  had  been  subject  to  public  notice 
and  comment. 

The  court  pointed  out  that  ALJs,  placing  more 
weight  on  the  statute  and  regulations  than  on  internal 
directives,  have  ruled  that  Medicare  should  provide 
coverage  in  the  type  of  situation  litigated  in  this  case. 

In  response  to  the  decision  in  Duggan  v.  Bowen, 
HCFA,  in  consultation  with  the  National  Association 
for  Home  Care,  has  revised  its  manual  of  directives  to 
fiscal  intermediaries  to  amend  and  clarify  its  policy 
regarding  payment  for  part-time  or  intermittent 
care.91 

“ Rules  of  Thumb”— Courts  also  have  criticized 
PROs  for  using  arbitrary  “rules  of  thumb”  to  deny 
benefits  when  HCFA’s  published  bulletin  for  PROs 
required  individualized  assessments  of  each  patient’s 
needs  in  determining  eligibility.  In  Hooper  v.  Bowen, 9  2 
the  court  indicated  that  a  particular  guideline  was  not 
meant  to  create  an  irrebutable  presumption  of 
noncoverage,  but  merely  to  indicate  the  possibility  of 
noncoverage.  In  all  cases  where  denial  is  possible, 
PRO  physicians  are  expected  to  consider  the  indi¬ 


88  E.g.  Recommendation  89-1,  June  12,  1989. 

89  T.S.  Jost,  ''Administrative  Law  Issues,"  10. 

90  691  F.Supp.  1487  (D.D.C.  1988). 

91  T.S.  Jost,  “Administrative  Law  Issues,”  10. 

92  U.S.D.C.,  D  CT,  July  20,  1989. 


vidual  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  patient’s 
medical  condition  and  grant  coverage  whenever 
hospitalization  is  medically  necessary. 

The  illegality  of  “rules  of  thumb”  were  at  issue  in 
Fox  v.  Bowen,90  a  case  in  which  a  fiscal  intermediary 
denied  benefits  based  on  blanket  unpublished  rules  not 
authorized  by  statute  or  regulation.  The  court  forbade 
fiscal  intermediaries  and  providers  from  making  deci¬ 
sions  about  beneficiary  eligibility  for  Medicare  bene¬ 
fits  based  on  arbitrary  rules  of  thumb.  The  fact  that 
employees  of  the  fiscal  intermediary  were  avail¬ 
able  to  discuss  individual  coverage  decisions  with  the 
beneficiary’s  service  provider  did  not  amount  to  an  in¬ 
dividual  assessment  of  the  beneficiary’s  case. 

Utilization  Screens — When  HCFA  required  a  carrier 
to  develop  utilization  screens  for  Medicare  Part  B 
claims,  the  court  reiterated  that  screens  should  be 
used  only  as  guides,  and  were  not  to  preclude  indi¬ 
vidual  assessment  of  the  beneficiary’s  condition.94 

Secret  Directives — Sometimes  benefit  programs  base 
claims  determinations  on  unpublished  policies  or  crite¬ 
ria.  In  Bowen  v.  City  of  New  York,95  the  Supreme 
Court  held  that  DI  and  SSI  recipients  were  denied 
due  process  when  a  state  agency  denial  of  benefit 
claims  was  based  on  an  unpublished  policy  contrary 
to  published  SSA  policy.  The  policy  had  never  ap¬ 
peared  in  the  Federal  Register,  but  was  implemented 
through  internal  memoranda  and  other  bureaucratic 
devices. 

The  Court  said  that  failure  to  make  the  policy, 
which  went  to  the  heart  of  disability  determinations, 
known  to  beneficiaries  denied  them  a  fair  decision. 
The  Court  made  it  clear,  however,  that  benefit  pro¬ 
grams  cannot  be  expected  to  publish  every  directive 
which  may  affect  benefit  determinations. 

In  addition  to  violating  the  Constitution,  initial  de¬ 
terminations  based  on  secret  sources  impose  unneces¬ 
sary  burdens  on  appellate  level  decisionmakers  and 
additional  expense  on  the  review  and  appeal  system. 
For  example,  in  DI,  SSI  and  Medicare  cases,  where 
ALJs  are  required  to  make  decisions  based  solely  on 
law  and  regulations,  reversal  of  denials  justified  on 
any  other  grounds  is  virtually  inevitable.  One  ALJ 
stated  that  reliance  on  secret  sources  for  lower  level 
decisionmaking  requires  the  ALJ  to  do  two  jobs — 
her/his  own  and  that  of  the  earlier  decisionmaker.96 


93  656  F.Supp.  1236  (DCT  1987). 

98  Vorster  v.  Bowen,  709  F.Supp.  934  (CDCal.  (1989). 

95  476  U.S.  467  (1985). 

98  Ronald  G.  Bemoski,  Secretary,  Association  of  Administrative  Law 
Judges,  telephone  conversation  with  author,  January  4,  1990. 


197 


For  beneficiaries  who  accept  determinations  of  denial 
without  further  question,  the  result  of  a  denial  based 
on  secret  sources  could  be  devastating. 

Congressional  and  Administrative  Action — Congress 
has  expressed  a  commitment  to  the  importance  of  pro¬ 
viding  for  public  comment  on  major  benefit  program 
policy  statements  and  administrative  directives.  In 
1987,  Congress  enacted  certain  provisions  requiring 
HCFA  to  publicize  more  of  its  policies  governing 
Medicare.  For  example,  HCFA  must  promulgate  sub¬ 
stantive  program  rules,  policies,  requirements,  and 
changes  in  the  scope  of  benefits,  or  beneficiary  eligi¬ 
bility  as  regulations.97  As  regulations,  these  will  re¬ 
quire  a  request  for  public  notice  and  comment.98 

In  addition,  the  statute  requires  the  publication  and 
regular  updating  of  a  list  of  all  manual  instructions, 
guidelines  of  general  applicability,  interpretative  rules, 
and  statements  of  policy  that  have  not  been  promul¬ 
gated  as  regulations.99  Also,  the  contractual  relation¬ 
ship  between  HCFA  and  private  organizations  to 
which  it  has  delegated  claims  determination,  and 
review  and  appeal  functions  continues  to  result  in  ex¬ 
empting  many  significant  substantive  policies  and  di¬ 
rectives  from  the  requirement  of  public  scrutiny.  The 
rationale  is  that  the  Administrative  Procedure  Act 
does  not  apply  to  the  internal  workings  of  these 
organizations. 100 

Medicare  Home  Health  Care  Denials — A  Case 
Study — During  FYs  1986  and  1987,  there  was  a  dra¬ 
matic  increase  in  the  number  of  denials  of  Medicare 
home  health  care  claims.  Responding  to  numerous 
complaints  from  home  health  care  providers,  physi¬ 
cians  and  senior  citizen  groups,  Congress,  in  the 
Medicare  Catastrophic  Coverage  Act  of  1988,  man¬ 
dated  the  creation  of  an  Advisory  Committee  on 
Medicare  Home  Health  Care  to  determine  the  reasons 
for  the  denials  and  to  recommend  reforms  to  Con¬ 
gress  and  HCFA.  Among  the  findings  of  the  com¬ 
mittee  were  several  relating  to  the  impact  of  HCFA’s 
reliance  on  informal  communication  of  policies  and 
program  directives,  and  to  the  decentralization  of  de¬ 
cisionmaking  on  the  Medicare  Part  A  claims,  review 
and  appeal  processes. 1 0 1 

The  committee  indicated  that  even  the  attempt  to 
collect  documentation  necessary  to  implement  policy 
and  program  changes  often  was  futile  because  very 
little  of  the  critical  information  was  recorded  in  any 


97  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395hh(a)(2). 

98  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395hh(bXl). 

99  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  1395hh(c)(l). 

100  See,  e.g.  American  Hospital  Association  v.  Bowen.  834  F.2d  1037  (D.C. 
Cir.  1987),  re  protection  of  HHS  from  obligation  to  seek  comment  on  policies 
embodied  in  contracts  with  PROs. 

101  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  10-12. 


manner.102  The  frequent  changes  in  HCFA  policy  re¬ 
garding  payment  of  home  health  care  claims  generally 
were  communicated  to  fiscal  intermediaries  respon¬ 
sible  for  claims  payment  decisions  as  instructions  or 
informal  directives.103 

The  committee  also  found  considerable  inconsist¬ 
ency  among  fiscal  intermediaries  in  the  manner  of 
processing,  reviewing  and  denying  claims,  and  in  the 
application  of  Medicare  coverage  criteria.  When  fiscal 
intermediaries  initiated  new  coverage  criteria  that  re¬ 
sulted  in  an  increase  of  claims  denied,  they  failed  to 
provide  prior  notification  to  providers.104 

The  committee  made  several  recommendations  to 
Congress  and  HCFA  regarding  claims  review  and 
appeal  decisions.  Two  that  relate  to  improving  com¬ 
munication  regarding  the  reasoning  behind  benefit-re¬ 
lated  decisions  are  that  there  should  be: 

•  Advance  written  notice  and  an  opportunity  to 
comment  before  proposed  program  and  policy 
changes  are  implemented  and 

•  Prospective  and  timely  dissemination  of  policies 
or  related  communications;  policies  should  not  be 
subject  to  regional  [HCFA]  interpretation  prior 
to  dissemination105 


Right  to  a  Determination  Based  on  an 
Adequate  Record 

Files  containing  inadequate  information  about  the 
validity  of  beneficiaries’  claims  (records)  offer  signifi¬ 
cant  basis  for  reversal  of  claims  determinations  in 
many  benefit  programs  and  are  probably  the  major 
reason  for  delay  in  the  review  and  appeal  process. 
Records  may  be  inadequate  because  established  proce¬ 
dures  for  developing  medical,  functional  or  other  rele¬ 
vant  information  about  beneficiaries  are  deficient. 
When  procedures  themselves  are  acceptable,  person¬ 
nel  may  not  be  adequately  trained  or  monitored,  or 
provided  with  appropriate  work  incentives. 

Benefit  Program  Practices — The  Constitution  re¬ 
quires  benefit  programs  to  base  determinations  on  ac¬ 
curate,  complete  and  timely  information.  The  rate  of 
reversals  on  appeal  indicates,  however,  that  in  the 
earlier  stages  of  review,  programs  frequently  do  not 
develop  records  that  meet  this  standard.  Because  most 
beneficiaries  do  not  appeal  claims  determinations  at 
all,  and  a  declining  number  appeal  them  at  each  stage 
of  the  review  and  appeal  process,  many  beneficiaries 


102  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  22. 

i°3  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  49. 

104  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  64. 

105  Advisory  Committee  on  Medicare  Home  Health  Care,  Report  12. 


198 


are  receiving  determinations  based  on  inadequate  in¬ 
formation  about  their  claims.  Practices  of  benefit  pro¬ 
grams  illustrate  some  systemic  problems  resulting 
from  adequate  claims  records. 

Department  of  Veterans  Affairs — Beneficiaries’  rep¬ 
resentatives  complain  that  the  initial  claims  determina¬ 
tion  process  within  DVA  is  deficient  because  the 
records  on  which  the  Rating  Board  makes  its  deci¬ 
sions  frequently  are  incomplete.  For  example,  DVA 
staff  may  not  order  medical  examinations  as  part  of 
the  initial  process,  so  that  these  must  be  ordered  at 
later  stages.  In  addition,  unrepresented  veterans  fre¬ 
quently  do  not  assert  their  claims  beyond  initial 
denial,  and  so  are  inadequately  served  by  the 
system.106 

Another  obstacle  to  developing  adequate  records 
for  DVA  disability  proceedings  is  the  difficulty  in 
getting  medical  records  from  the  various  medical  in¬ 
stallations  of  DVA  where  beneficiaries  are  examined 
and  treated.107 

Social  Security  Administration — Witnesses  testifying 
before  an  SSA  committee  on  disability  claims  stated 
that  SSA  personnel  are  not  sufficiently  active  in  initial 
development  of  claims  records.  They  also  criticized 
SSA  staff  for  not  communicating  effectively  with 
beneficiaries,  particularly  those  who  do  not  speak 
English,  about  the  evidence  required  to  prove  their 
claims.  The  Committee  recommended  that  SSA 
affirmatively  assist  beneficiaries  by  insuring  pursuit  of 
every  appropriate  method  of  securing  evidence  to 
support  their  claims.108 

Other  testimony  alleged  that,  because  claims  devel¬ 
opment  standards  are  lacking,  there  is  no  uniformity 
in  decisionmaking  by  state  DDSs.  Records  at  the 
DDS  level  may  be  problematic  because  of:  inappro¬ 
priate  medical  evidence,  incomplete  evidence,  failure 
of  staff  to  follow  up  on  acquiring  requested  evidence, 
and  poor  quality  evidence.  The  Committee  recom¬ 
mended  that  SSA  standardize  requirements  for  a 
complete  record  and  hold  state  level  employees  re¬ 
sponsible  for  complying  with  these  requirements.109 

Another  concern  is  the  appropriateness  of  the  evi¬ 
dence  gathered  for  the  record.  Beneficiaries’  repre¬ 
sentatives  criticize  the  heavy  reliance  on  traditional 
medical  evidence  and  physicians’  opinions  in  DI  and 
SSI  determinations.110  Even  though  the  effects  of 

108  John  A.  Sommer  Jr.  and  Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with 

aUtio7  j  h.  Spindle,  Jr.  and  Robert  Yurgal,  conversation  with  author;  John  A. 
Sommer  Jr.  and  Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with  author. 

108  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  9. 

109  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  9. 

no  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author;  Ayn  Crawley,  conversation 
with  author. 


chronic  disability  are  observed  most  frequently  by 
family  members,  nurses  or  personal  care  attendants, 
SSA  regulations  indicate  that  only  physician  in¬ 
formation  is  acceptable  as  medical  information  about 
beneficiaries. 111 

Medicare — Problems  of  adequacy  of  claims  records 
in  Medicare  are  more  difficult  to  evaluate.  Much  of 
the  evidence  on  which  determinations  are  based  is 
technical  in  nature.  In  addition,  HCFA  has  little 
direct  control  over  the  initial  claims  process  and  the 
early  stages  of  review.  NDG,  the  contractor  provid¬ 
ing  reconsideration  decisions  in  HMO  cases,  has  indi¬ 
cated  to  HCFA  that  the  principal  reason  for  delays  in 
making  these  determinations  has  been  the  need  to  go 
back  to  the  HMOs  for  additional  material  in  order  to 
complete  claims  records. 112 

Right  to  Make  a  Verbal  Statement  or 
Argument  in  Front  of  the  Decisionmaker 

Both  beneficiaries’  advocates  and  benefit  program 
administrators  believe  that  face-to-face  communica¬ 
tion  of  some  sort  between  beneficiaries  and  deci¬ 
sionmakers  as  early  as  possible  in  the  review  and 
appeals  process  would  be  efficacious. 1 1 3  Some  believe 
that  if  beneficiaries  are  given  an  early  opportunity  to 
present  their  side  of  the  story  directly  to  decision¬ 
makers,  their  levels  of  satisfaction  even  with  adverse 
decisions,  would  rise  substantially.114  Other  results 
might  be  fewer  appeals  and  less  strain  on  benefit  pro¬ 
gram  administrative  apparatus.  Although  viewing  a 
beneficiary  in  the  flesh  may  on  occasion  have  a  nega¬ 
tive  impact  on  a  decisionmaker,  in-person  hearings  are 
known  to  improve  vastly  beneficiaries’  chances 
for  favorable  determinations.  In  Medicare  Part  B  ALJ 
determinations,  for  example,  beneficiaries  choosing 
on-the-record  reviews  received  favorable  decisions  in 
26  percent  of  the  cases,  while  those  choosing  in- 
person  hearings  received  favorable  decisions  in  40 
percent. 1 1 5 

In-Person  Reviews  in  Benefit  Programs — The  avail¬ 
ability  of  in-person  administrative  reviews  is  built  into 
all  benefit  programs,  although  the  stage  in  the  process 
at  which  they  occur,  and  the  formality  of  the  pro¬ 
ceedings,  vary.  These  reviews  are  not  automatic,  but 
must  be  requested  by  the  beneficiary.  Generally,  the 
time  span  is  significantly  longer  for  in-person  hearings 


111  20  CFR  404.1513. 

112  Carlos  Zarabosa,  conversation  with  author. 

113  Jean  Hinckley,  conversation  with  author;  Michael  Parks,  telephone 
conversation  with  author;  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author,  Disabil¬ 
ity  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  18. 

114  Jean  Hinckley,  conversation  with  author,  Ayn  Crawley,  conversation 
with  author. 

1 1 5  General  Accounting  Office,  Part  B  Hearings  Process. 


199 


than  on-the-record  reviews;  also  the  expense  to  all 
parties  is  greater. 

All  benefit  programs  provide  the  opportunity  for 
hearing  at  the  final  level  of  appeal  within  the  agency, 
but  this  may  be  contingent  on  the  amount  in  contro¬ 
versy.  For  all  of  the  HHS  programs,  in-person  hear¬ 
ings  occur  the  ALJ  level.  For  DVA,  they  are  before 
the  BVA.  Medicare  Part  B  procedures  provide,  as 
well,  for  a  carrier  fair  hearing  at  the  reconsideration 
level;  Medicare  HMOs  at  the  initial  review  level; 
DVA  for  hearings  at  all  stages;  and  SSA  for  a  hearing 
prior  to  termination,  for  DI  beneficiaries  only. 

Despite  the  generally  acknowledged  value  of  the 
in-person  hearing,  few  beneficiaries  take  advantage  of 
it.  Although,  in  DI  and  SSI  cases,  90  percent  of  ALJ 
proceedings  are  in-person  hearings,116  this  is  unusual 
among  benefit  programs. 

The  HCFA  Carriers  Manual  indicates  that  carrier 
staff  should  explain  to  beneficiaries  requesting  a  car¬ 
rier  reconsideration  that,  although  they  are  entitled  to 
an  in-person  hearing,  an  on-the-record  decision  based 
on  a  full  review  of  the  record  is  faster  and  less 
costly.117  Beneficiaries’  representatives  indicate  that 
other  agencies  may  direct  staff  to  encourage  benefici¬ 
aries  to  select  on-the-record  hearings  for  similar  rea¬ 
sons.118  In  DVA  programs,  for  example,  although 
hearings  are  available  at  all  stages,  relatively  few 
actually  are  held.  Hearings  before  the  BVA  take 
place  in  Washington,  D.C.,  and  veterans  must  appear 
at  their  own  expense.  BVA  traveling  panels  are 
infrequent,  thereby  delaying  the  appeal  process 
significantly. 

Recently  DVA,  pursuant  to  a  consent  decree,  es¬ 
tablished  an  intermediate  level  panel  of  hearing  offi¬ 
cers  that  hear  cases  at  the  regional  offices.  These 
hearing  officers  cannot  have  participated  in  the  initial 
decision.119  This  should  increase  the  number  of  hear¬ 
ings  held.  DVA,  however,  is  not  currently  publicizing 
the  availability  of  this  opportunity.120 

Involving  the  Decisionmaker — It  is  essential  that 
early  in-person  communication  between  beneficiaries 
and  benefit  programs  as  part  of  the  review  and  appeal 
process  involve  the  decisionmaker  or  all  members  of  a 
decisionmaking  team.121  This  communication  need 


116  Jean  Hinckley,  conversation  with  author. 

117  Medicare  Carriers  Manual,  Part  3,  Claims  Process,  Revision  1291,  sec. 
12105,  February  1989,  12-21. 

118  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author. 

119  Semenchuk  v.  Walters,  No.  84-C-312,  U.S.D.Ct.,  ND  ILL  (March  18, 
1985). 

120  John  A.  Sommer  Jr.  and  Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with 
author. 

121  Jean  Hinckley,  conversation  with  author;  Ayn  Crawley,  conversation 
with  author. 


not  be  in  the  context  of  a  formal  hearing.  It  might  be 
a  prehearing  conference  as  suggested  by  the  Disability 
Advisory  Committee122  or  an  interview  as  part  of  the 
initial  review  process,  as  recommended  by  the 
Administrative  Conference.123 

Impact  of  Face-to-Face  Interviews — A  recent  GAO 
study  determined  that  the  face-to-face  interviews  that 
ALJs  conduct  with  DI  and  SSI  beneficiaries  are 
major  factors  in  reversal  of  DDS  denials  in  on-the- 
record  reconsiderations.  At  the  time  of  the  study, 
ALJs  were  reversing  DDS  decisions  in  over  60  per¬ 
cent  of  cases  receiving  an  ALJ  hearing.  For  several 
categories  of  beneficiaries  the  rate  was  between  70 
and  100  percent.124  GAO  recommended  that  the  Sec¬ 
retary  of  HHS  direct  SSA  to  initiate  a  demonstration 
project  that  would  include  face-to-face  interviews  for 
selected  beneficiaries  at  the  reconsideration  stage.  The 
purpose  of  the  recommendation  was  to  allow  DDSs 
to  approve  some  claims  that  would  otherwise  be  ap¬ 
proved  by  ALJs,  and  to  better  document  DDS  deci¬ 
sions  later  reviewed  by  ALJs.125 

The  Disability  Advisory  Committee  has  identi¬ 
fied  the  absence  of  face-to-face  communication  be¬ 
tween  beneficiaries  and  decisionmakers  as  a  significant 
factor  undermining  the  effectiveness  of  the  hearing 
and  appeal  process  in  SSA.  It  has  recommended  more 
involvement  between  DDSs  and  beneficiaries  in  pre¬ 
paring  claims  files  for  initial  review,  and  face-to-face 
hearings  at  reconsideration.126  The  Committee  stated 
that  “it  is  not  enough  that  individuals  receive  ‘fair’  de¬ 
cisions,”  and  urged  that  SSA  “endeavor  to  ensure 
that  applicants  also  view  these  decisions  as  fair  and 
proper  based  on  the  evidence.”  127 

Telephone  Hearings — The  use  of  high  technology 
that  lowers  costs  and  also  satisfies  frail  or  disabled 
beneficiaries  is  an  inevitable  outgrowth  of  a  legitimate 
search  for  ways  to  provide  fair  hearings  and  also  con¬ 
tain  the  costs  of  administering  large  scale  benefit  pro¬ 
grams.  Beneficiaries’  advocates  and  administrators 
caution  against  heavy  reliance  on  using  the  telephone 
as  an  alternative  to  in-person  hearings.  They  contend 
that,  even  though  it  may  be  difficult  for  chronically 
disabled,  ill  or  elderly  individuals  to  get  to  the  hear¬ 
ing  location,  the  advantages  of  the  in-person  hearing 
outweigh  the  difficulties.128 


122  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  18. 

123  Frank  S.  Bloch,  Report  and  Recommendations  on  the  Social  Security 
Administration 's  Administrative  Appeal’s  Process  (Administrative  Conference  of 
the  United  States,  1989),  130. 

124  General  Accounting  Office,  Social  Security /Selective  Face-to-Face  Inter¬ 
views  with  Disability  Claimants  Could  Reduce  Appeals,  (Washington,  D.C.: 
April  1989),  3. 

125  General  Accounting  Office,  Face-to-Face  Interviews,  3-4. 

126  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  10. 

127  Disability  Advisory  Committee,  Report,  8. 

128  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author;  Jean  Hinckley,  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author. 


200 


Congressional  and  Administration  Interest — In  the 
Omnibus  Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1987, 129  Con¬ 
gress  raised  the  question  of  whether  telephone  hear¬ 
ings  can  be  conducted  effectively  and  efficiently  in  a 
Medicare  environment.  Medicare  beneficiaries  con¬ 
tinue  to  have  the  option  to  select  telephone  hearings 
at  the  carrier  level.  These  must  be  conducted  accord¬ 
ing  to  specific  procedures  set  out  in  the  Medicare 
Carriers  Manual.130 

The  Inspector  General  of  HHS  has  studied  the  le¬ 
gality  and  viability  of  expanding  telephone  hearings  to 
the  ALJ  level  and  has  concluded  that  such  hearings 
are  legal,  provided  they  employ  adequate  safeguards 
of  due  process.  Furthermore,  the  Inspector  General 
found  that:  the  Medicare  Part  B  telephone  hearings 
complied  with  due  process;  beneficiaries  using  these 
hearings  generally  perceived  them  to  be  fair;  and, 
most  Medicare  issues  could  be  handled  effectively  by 
telephone. 131 

Reasons  for  Concern — Critics  of  providing  telephone 
hearings  for  the  population  generally  served  by  bene¬ 
fit  programs  agree  that  these  should  be  an  option  for 
individuals  who  prefer  the  telephone,  but  stress  that, 
without  an  in-person  hearing,  the  decisionmaker 
cannot  see  the  beneficiary’s  demeanor.  In  addition, 
they  describe  the  average  beneficiary,  particularly  of 
DI  or  SSI,  as  unused  to  high  technology  and  prob¬ 
ably  frightened  of  it.132  Others  suggest  that  telephone 
hearings  might  be  appropriate  if  the  advocate  and  the 
decisionmaker  communicate  without  the  beneficiary’s 
participation  in  the  conversation. 

Linguistic  studies  of  the  different  impacts  of  face- 
to-face  and  telephone  communication,  indicate  that,  in 
virtually  all  instances,  face-to-face  conversation 
provides  the  parties  with  vastly  more  effective  and 
comprehensible  communication.  This  is  because 
face-to-face  communication  involves  more  clues  to 
meaning  than  just  speech.  Gestures,  eye  gaze,  body 
orientation,  and  touching  are  all  available  to  in¬ 
dividuals  engaged  in  face-to-face  conversation.  These 
findings  indicate  that  trained  administrators  with  ex¬ 
perience  in  using  telephones  for  business  have  a  dis¬ 
tinct  advantage  over  beneficiaries,  most  of  whom  do 
not  possess  this  skill.  In  congressional  testimony,  the 
Chairman  of  the  Georgetown  University  Department 
of  Linguistics  listed  the  essential  characteristics  of  ef- 

129  Office  of  Inspector  General,  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services,  Appeals  by  Telephone:  Appellant  Reactions  and  Implications  for  Ap¬ 
peals  Processing  (U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  June  1988), 
iL 

130  Medicare  Carriers  Manual  Part  3,  Claims  Process,  Revision  1291,  sec. 

12017,  February  1989,  12-33. 

1S1  Office  of  Inspector  General,  Appeals  by  Telephone. 

132  Eileen  Sweeney,  conversation  with  author;  Jean  Hinckley,  conversa¬ 
tion  with  author. 


fective  administrative  adjudicatory  hearings,  con¬ 
ducted  by  telephone  as: 

•  the  ability  of  both  parties  to  be  as  explicit  ver¬ 
bally  as  they  normally  would  be  in  face-to-face 
dialogue 

•  the  necessity  that  both  parties  speak  so  that  all 
jargon,  dialect,  age  and  gender  differences  are 
removed 

•  recognition  that  elderly  beneficiaries  may  be 
hard-of-hearing 

•  the  ability  of  both  parties  to  maintain  the  same 
style  of  language — consultative,  formal  or  casual 

•  the  necessity  that  both  parties  are  equally  at  ease 
with  the  culture  of  the  telephone. 

His  testimony  continued  with  the  thought  that  this 
type  of  hearing  becomes  more  complex  with  each  ad¬ 
ditional  participant  in  the  telephone  hearing.133 

Right  to  a  Hearing  Prior  to 
Denial  or  Termination  of  Benefit 

The  law  regarding  termination  of  benefits  without  a 
hearing  bears  directly  on  who  pays  during  the  period 
of  adjudication  of  the  validity  of  an  outstanding 
claim.  Under  the  facts  of  Mathews  v.  Eldridge 134  the 
beneficiary  pays.  Under  Goldberg  v.  Kelly 135  the  gov¬ 
ernment  pays.  Under  Medicare  Part  A,  the  provider 
pays.  Until  recently  changed  by  legislation,  when  a 
recipient  of  DI  was  terminated  from  benefits,  an  on- 
the-record  review  was  considered  sufficient  so  long  as 
a  hearing  was  available  within  a  reasonable  amount  of 
time  after  termination.  The  Supreme  Court’s  justifica¬ 
tion  for  this  holding  was  that  DI  recipients  generally 
are  terminated  from  benefits  because  they  are  able  to 
return  to  work.136  Consequently,  their  reliance  on  the 
DI  benefit  is  not  as  great  as  a  welfare  recipient’s  reli¬ 
ance  on  public  benefits. 

In  more  recent  cases,  courts  have  been  drawing  dis¬ 
tinctions.  In  Martinez  v.  Bowen,137  for  example,  the 
District  Court  found  that  Medicare  beneficiaries  were 
entitled  to  a  pretermination  hearing  and  to  continued 
receipt  of  benefits  until  a  determination  was  made.  Its 
rationale  was  that  as  part  of  a  class  disadvantaged  by 
disability,  illness  and  poverty,  these  beneficiaries  were 
more  like  welfare  than  DI  recipients.  Medicare  pro¬ 
vided  them  with  the  means  to  live  while  hearings 


133  Testimony  of  Roger  W.  Shuy,  Ph.D.,  Georgetown  University,  before 
the  U.S.  Senate  Committee  on  Governmental  Affairs,  June  1988. 

134  Mathews  v.  Eldridge,  424  U.S.  319  (1975). 

135  Goldberg  v.  Kelly.  397  U.S.  259  (1969). 

136  Mathews  v.  Eldridge,  424  U.S.  319  (1975). 

137  Martinez  v.  Bowen,  655  F.Supp.  95  (DCNM,  1986). 


201 


were  pending.138  Several  benefit  programs  have  reg¬ 
ulations  protecting  beneficiaries  during  the  pendency 
of  a  benefit  termination  proceeding.  Under  current 
law,  DI  and  SSI  beneficiaries  receive  payment  during 
the  pendency  of  a  termination  hearing  through  the 
ALJ  hearing  stage.  If  the  beneficiary  is  denied,  over¬ 
payment  of  benefits  are  supposed  to  be  returned.  As  a 
matter  of  program  practice,  this  rule  is  rarely  en¬ 
forced.  DVA  permits  a  beneficiary  receiving  termina¬ 
tion  notice  60  days  to  appeal  before  benefits  are  cut 
off. 


Right  to  a  Determination  by  an 
Impartial  Decisionmaker 

The  separation  of  the  review  and  appeal  determina¬ 
tion  from  benefit  program  influence  is  a  critical  aspect 
of  due  process  that  has  posed  dilemmas  for  benefit 
programs.  Programs  provide  for  impartial  determina¬ 
tions  in  various  ways,  some  of  which  are  more  effec¬ 
tive  in  achieving  objectivity  and  independence  from 
the  program  than  others.  All  benefit  programs,  for  ex¬ 
ample,  require  reconsideration  decisions  or  second- 
level  reviews  to  be  done  by  individuals  not  involved 
in  the  initial  decision  or  first-level  review.  The  rela¬ 
tionship  of  the  reviewers  themselves  to  the  program 
may,  however,  be  problematic. 

The  implementation  of  an  independent  decisionmak¬ 
ing  function  within  benefit  programs  raises  many 
issues.  This  section  examines  three  issues  that  have 
arisen  in  the  context  of  specific  programs — the  inde¬ 
pendence  of  the  institution  of  the  ALJ  within  SSA; 
the  use  of  private  contractors  to  make  review  and 
appeal  determinations  on  behalf  of  Medicare;  and,  the 
creation  of  a  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals  independent 
of  DVA. 

The  Independence  of  the  ALJ — The  Administrative 
Procedure  Act  mandates  the  independence  of  ALJs  in 
making  benefit-related  decisions.  Recognizing  this, 
ALJs  stress  the  importance  of  benefit  programs’  re¬ 
specting  their  professionalism  and  objectivity.  The 
programs,  concerned  about  containing  costs  of  both 
benefit  payments  and  the  review  and  appeal  process, 
sometimes  institute  policies  or  practices  perceived  as 
violating  the  intent  of  the  Administrative  Procedure 
Act.  In  recent  years,  the  status  of  the  ALJ  within 
SSA  has  been  the  subject  of  congressional  concern 
among  beneficiaries’  representatives,  GAO,  expert 
commissions  and  the  ALJs  themselves.  Legislation 
currently  being  considered  in  Congress  would  either 
separate  the  office  of  ALJ  from  SSA  and  HHS  en¬ 
tirely  by  creating  an  independent  ALJ  commission 


138  Martinez  v.  Bowen,  655  F.Supp.  95  (DNM,  1986). 


(HR  791),  or  establish  an  Office  of  Chief  ALJ  that 
would  report  directly  to  the  Secretary  of  HHS 
(S.  1571). 

Related  legislation  proposing  the  separation  of  SSA 
from  HHS  also  has  spurred  the  movement  toward 
establishing  an  independent  office  of  ALJ.  Critics  fear 
that  if  SSA  is  no  longer  in  HHS,  SSA’s  power  over 
the  office  of  the  ALJ  would  be  even  greater  than 
at  present.  Another  concern  is  that  HCFA,  which  is 
required  to  use  SSA  ALJs  to  perform  appellate 
hearings  and  reviews  for  Medicare,  would  seize  the 
opportunity  created  by  the  separation  of  SSA  to  es¬ 
tablish  an  office  of  ALJ  within  its  own  agency. 

Because  ALJs  function  within  the  administrative 
rather  than  the  judicial  sphere,  there  is  inherent  ten¬ 
sion  between  them  and  the  agencies  they  serve  about 
the  limits  of  their  authority  to  render  appellate  deci¬ 
sions.  The  legislative  proposals  would  establish  insti¬ 
tutional  distance  between  the  ALJ  and  SSA  or 
HCFA.  The  proposals  are  motivated  by  concern 
about  documented  practices  of  these  agencies  whose 
result  has  been,  or  could  be,  to  restrict  the  ALJs’ 
abilities  to  function  as  independent  decisionmakers. 

Within  SSA  and  HCFA,  past  and  current  policies 
and  practices  and  the  complaints  made  about  them 
include: 

•  Establishing  a  “pool”  system  to  staff  the  ALJ 
office  so  that  attorneys  and  paralegals  preparing 
cases  no  longer  report  directly  to  the  ALJ  but  to 
the  management  of  SSA,  thereby  making  ALJs 
accountable  for  decisionmaking  but  removing 
from  them  the  authority  over  critical  aspects  of 
the  appeal  process  139 

•  Designating  certain  ALJs  to  manage  other  ALJs 
and  supervise  the  manner  in  which  they  process 
cases,  a  function  not  protected  by  the  Adminis¬ 
trative  Procedure  Act  140 

•  Instituting  individual  performance  reviews  of 
ALJs,  focused  on  rates  of  reversal  of  lower  level 
denials,  followed  by  attempts  to  modify  certain 
ALJs’  behavior  or  taking  punitive  measures 
against  them  141 

•  Not  enforcing  strict  requirements  that  ALJs  take 
cases  on  a  rotational  basis,  as  required  by  the 
Administrative  Procedure  Act,  with  the  result 
that  it  becomes  possible  for  SSA  to  select  judges 
to  hear  certain  cases  142 


139  Association  of  Administrative  Law  Judges,  Inc.,  Statement  to  the  Dis¬ 
ability  Advisory  Committee,  Social  Security  Administration,  May  1,  1989. 

140  Association  of  Administrative  Law  Judges,  Inc.,  Statement. 

141  Association  of  Administrative  Law  Judges,  Inc.,  Statement. 

142  Association  of  Administrative  Law  Judges,  Inc.,  Statement. 


202 


•  Limiting  the  number  of  ALJs  that  hear  Medicare 
Part  B  appeals  to  selected  individuals,  resulting  in 
creating  administratively  a  corps  of  HCFA  ALJs 
that  Congress  has  expressly  refused  to  establish 
legislatively  143 

•  Countenancing  the  issuance  of  ex  parte  directives 
to  ALJs  that  effectively  instruct  them  as  to  how 
to  decide  a  case  144 

•  Attempting  to  influence  the  already  overbur¬ 
dened  SSA  Appeals  Council  to  review  ALJ  re¬ 
versals  of  lower  level  denials  in  Medicare  cases, 
in  direct  conflict  with  the  law  that  authorizes  the 
Appeals  Council  only  to  take  cases  appealed  by 
beneficiaries  or  on  its  own  initiative  145 

Whether  or  not  SSA’s  or  HCFA’s  reasons  for  institut¬ 
ing  the  policies  and  practices  described  are  as  attrib¬ 
uted  to  them  by  critics,  the  pervasive  complaints  call 
into  question  the  effectiveness  of  the  ALJ  system  as  it 
currently  functions. 

Delegation  of  Review  Functions  in  Medicare — The 

legality  and  appropriateness  of  delegating  constitu¬ 
tionally  required  review  and  appeal  functions  to 
private  organizations  is  controversial.  Medicare’s  dele¬ 
gation  of  all  of  the  review  and  reconsideration  func¬ 
tions  of  its  various  benefit  programs  to  private  sector 
organizations  raises  important  questions  about  inde¬ 
pendence  of  the  review  process.  Each  of  these 
private  organizations  is  accountable  to  HCFA 
for  its  performance.  Although  the  Supreme  Court  has 
found  that  such  arrangements  are  not  per  se 
violations  of  due  process,  it  has  indicated  that  an 
actual  conflict  of  interest  will  result  in  unconstitu¬ 
tional  determinations.146 

Medicare  Parts  A  and  B— The  carriers  and  fiscal 
intermediaries  that  perform  reviews  and  reconsider¬ 
ations  under  Parts  A  and  B  function  as  agents  of 
HCFA.  They  do  not  themselves  provide  health  care 
services  or  benefits  to  Medicare  beneficiaries  that 
would  conflict  with  their  ability  to  make  fair  decisions 
about  Medicare  claims.  But  through  their  contracts 
with  Medicare,  they  could  be  subject  to  inappropriate 
influence.  For  example,  the  contracts  contain  provi¬ 
sions  that  authorize  Medicare  to  evaluate  the  effec¬ 
tiveness  of  carrier  or  fiscal  intermediary  review  and 
appeal  procedures.  The  criteria  against  which  the 
evaluation  is  made,  however,  are  not  readily  accessi¬ 
ble  to  public  scrutiny.  What  constitutes  “good  per¬ 
formance”  from  the  program’s  point  of  view  is  not 

143  Plaintiff's  Motion  for  Injunction  and  Declaratory  Relief,  Kitick  v.  Sulli¬ 
van  (Civl  Action  No.  N89-494,  U.S.D.Ct,  D  CT,  October  4,  1989). 

144  Plaintiff's  Motion  for  Injunction  and  Declaratory  Relief,  Kitick  v.  Sulli- 

VQfL 

145  Congressional  Record,  Statement  of  Sen.  David  Pryor,  101st  Cong.,  1st 
Sess.,  135  (109),  pan  II,  August  4,  1989. 

143  Schweiker  v.  McClure,  456  U.S.  188  (1982). 


generally  known.  Contractual  or  informal  perform¬ 
ance  quotas  or  goals,  or  more  subtle  means  of  direct¬ 
ing  the  outcomes  of  benefit  determinations,  are 
difficult  for  beneficiaries’  representatives  to  monitor. 
But  failure  to  pass  a  quality  review  of  performance 
under  the  contract  subjects  the  contractor  to  possible 
discontinuance  of  the  contractual  relationship. 

The  independence  of  the  PROs  has  been  challenged 
for  different  reasons.  Some  critics  consider  that  it  is 
difficult  for  physicians  to  evaluate  fairly  the  medical 
decisions  of  other  physicians  for  fear  that  their  own 
judgment  may  be  similarly  challenged  at  some  future 
time.147  Others  consider  that  the  PROs  cannot  be  ob¬ 
jective  because  they  are  paid  by  Medicare,  and  that 
HCFA  might  put  pressure  on  physicians  to  increase 
the  number  of  claims  denials.148 

Medicare  HMOs — The  role  of  HMOs  in  Medicare 
review  determinations  could  become  particularly 
problematic.  HMOs  providing  health  care  services  to 
beneficiaries  are  authorized  to  make  claims  decisions 
and  could  contain  costs  by  denying  legitimate  claims, 
particularly  where  these  are  marginal.  Beneficiaries 
could  perceive  review  by  the  same  organization,  even 
if  done  by  individuals  not  involved  in  the  initial  deci¬ 
sion,  as  unfair.  HCFA  has  given  HMOs  substantial 
latitude  in  developing  their  own  review  and  appeal 
procedures,  and  does  not  maintain  statistics  on  re¬ 
quests  for  HMO  review  or  on  their  rates  of  denial  and 
allowance  of  initial  claims.149  Recognizing  the  poten¬ 
tial  for  conflict  of  interest,  HCFA  regulations  require 
that  all  HMO  reconsiderations  resulting  in  denial  of 
claims  must  be  forwarded  to  HCFA  for  review.150 

The  Creation  of  the  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals — 

Review  and  appeal  procedures  functioning  entirely 
within  the  benefit  program  or  its  parent  agency  may 
not  adequately  insure  independent  decisionmaking  re¬ 
garding  benefits.  Provision  of  some  sort  of  judicial 
review  of  most  actions  of  administrative  agencies  is 
accepted  as  required  by  the  constitutional  separation 
of  powers  doctrine. 

Until  recently,  DVA  and  its  predecessor,  the  Veter¬ 
ans  Administration,  had  not  provided  for  judicial 
review  of  benefit  decisions.  In  1988,  after  a  decade  of 
debate,  Congress  enacted  the  Veterans’  Judicial 
Review  Act,151  authorizing  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  court,  the  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals,  to 
review  decisions  of  BVA.  Prior  to  that  time,  benefici¬ 
aries  of  veterans’  benefits  could  only  appeal  denials 


147  Richard  Husk,  perception  referred  to  in  conversation  with  author. 

148  Alan  K.  Kaplan,  perception  referred  to  in  conversation  with  author 
(Washington,  D.C.:  November  15,  1989). 

149  Carlos  Zarabosa,  conversation  with  author. 

150  42  CFR  417.620(bX2). 

‘*‘38  U.S.C.,  Sec.  4063,  et  seq. 


203 


within  DVA.152  Unlike  DI  benefits  which  have 
always  been  considered  entitlements  to  those  who  are 
eligible,  until  recently,  veterans’  benefits  were  consid¬ 
ered  discretionary.  Consequently,  Congress  was  under 
no  obligation  to  establish  judicial  review  of  DVA  ac¬ 
tions.  In  1981,  DVA’s  General  Counsel  wrote  an 
opinion  stating  that  “benefits  are  gratuities  bestowed 
by  the  Government  under  whatever  conditions  it 
chooses  to  impose.”153 

BVA,  the  final  administrative  appeals  body,  had  no 
external  checks  on  its  actions.  If  BVA  chose  not  to 
resolve  a  difficult  issue  or  decide  a  complicated  case, 
there  was  no  effective  means  of  forcing  it  to  do  so.  At 
the  same  time,  it  was,  and  still  is,  considered  subject 
to  pressure  from  DVA  regarding  decisions  in  politi¬ 
cally  controversial  cases.154  Some  beneficiary  repre¬ 
sentatives  argue  that,  even  with  the  creation  of  the 
court,  veterans  continue  to  be  denied  truly  independ¬ 
ent  determinations  at  the  agency  level.155  Prior  to  the 
enactment  of  the  Veterans’  Judicial  Review  Act,  the 
American  Legion  lobbied  for  many  years  for  the  cre¬ 
ation  of  an  administrative  appeal  body  totally  inde¬ 
pendent  of  DVA,  to  replace  the  existing  placement  of 
BVA  within  DVA. 

The  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals  was  established 
with  the  expectation  that  it  would  provide  an  inde¬ 
pendent  perspective  on  decisionmaking  in  DVA  pro¬ 
grams  including  disability  benefits.  It  is  too  soon  to 
speculate  about  its  possible  impact  on  the  quality  of 
benefit-related  decisionmaking  at  all  levels  within 
DVA.  Other  recent  legislation  as  well  and  court 
intervention  may  result  in  substantial  changes  in  DVA 
review  and  appeal  practices.156 


WHAT  ARE  THE  SIGNIFICANT 
LESSONS  FOR  A  NEW  LONG-TERM 
CARE  BENEFIT  PROGRAM  IN  THE 
EXPERIENCE  OF  EXISTING 
BENEFIT  PROGRAMS? 

This  section  summarizes  the  report.  The  summary 
is  organized  around  three  basic  assumptions  about  the 
importance  of  providing  due  process  in  benefit  pro¬ 
grams.  Under  each  assumption,  the  report  identifies 


152  See  Barton  F.  Stichman,  “Overview  of  the  Veterans  Judicial  Review 
Act,”  Administrative  Law  Review,  41,  3,  (Summer  1989):  365-397,  for  a  gen¬ 
eral  discussion  of  the  Court  of  Veterans  Appeals. 

183  See  Frank  S.  Bloch,  “Federal  Disability  Law  and  Practice,  1984,” 
Symposium  on  Federal  Disability  Benefit  Programs  (American  Bar  Association, 
1984)  159. 

154  See  Frank  S.  Bloch,  “Federal  Disability  Law,”  159,  Sec.  6.1. 

185  Michael  Wildhaber,  conversation  with  author;  John  A.  Sommer  Jr.  and 
Philip  R.  Wilkerson,  conversation  with  author. 

186  See  Michael  E.  Wildhaber,  et.  al..  Veterans  Benefits.  Representing  Vet¬ 
erans  Under  the  New  Veterans  Judicial  Review  Act,  section  on  administra¬ 
tive  review  provisions,  9-17,  1989. 


the  relevant  lessons  learned  from  the  experience  of  ex¬ 
isting  benefit  programs,  and  discusses  their  implica¬ 
tions  for  a  long-term  care  program. 

ASSUMPTION:  A  benefit  program’s  review  and 
appeal  procedures  cannot  provide  adequate  due  proc¬ 
ess  unless  policies  about  the  programs  themselves  sup¬ 
port  fair  decisionmaking. 

Lesson:  The  Type  of  Benefit,  Sources  of 
Financing  and  Structure  of 
Administration  of  Benefit  Programs 

1 .  The  type  of  benefit  provided  (periodic  payments 
or  payments  tied  to  services  performed),  the  urgency 
to  beneficiaries  of  eligibility  or  coverage  determina¬ 
tions,  and  the  type  of  evidence  available  to  the  claims 
decisionmaker  (e.g.  technical,  anecdotal  or  state  of 
mind  evidence)  all  affect  the  way  in  which  a  benefit 
program  constructs  its  review  and  appeal  procedures. 

When  benefit  program  administrators  have  ade¬ 
quate  time  and  information  available  for  considered 
decisionmaking,  an  opportunity  exists  to  ensure  fair 
initial  coverage  and  eligibility  determinations.  For 
various  reasons  such  as  the  priority  of  cost  contain¬ 
ment  or  the  complexity  of  administration,  benefit 
programs  do  not  always  take  advantage  of  this  oppor¬ 
tunity.  Benefit  programs  that  constantly  deal  with 
acute  care  needs  have  difficulty  making  initial  eligi¬ 
bility  determinations  both  rapidly  and  fairly. 

Historically,  benefit  programs  paying  periodic  bene¬ 
fits  over  a  long  term  (DI,  SSI,  DVA)  have  developed 
review  and  appeal  procedures  that  are  reasonably  ac¬ 
cessible  to  beneficiaries.  The  procedures  of  programs 
that  pay  benefits  based  on  specific  services  either  to 
providers  or  beneficiaries  (Medicare)  have  been  less 
accessible,  possibly  because  the  high  volume  of  claims 
coupled  with  the  relatively  low  amount  of  payment  to 
each  beneficiary  makes  such  procedures  appear  to  be 
unjustifiably  costly. 

2.  The  sources  of  financing  and  structure  of  admin¬ 
istration  of  benefit  programs  have  an  impact  on  the 
development  of  review  and  appeal  procedures.  In  ad¬ 
dition  to  meeting  certain  constitutional  standards,  pro¬ 
grams  that  are  both  financed  and  administered  by  the 
federal  government  are  subject  to  federal  legislation 
in  establishing  review  and  appeal  procedures.  State  fi¬ 
nanced  or  administered  programs  develop  procedures 
under  state  law.  Privately  financed  programs  do  not 
have  due  process  obligations.  Federally  financed  pro¬ 
grams  administered  by  private  organizations  may  have 


204 


differing  due  process  requirements  depending  on  the 
legal  relationship  between  the  private  organization 
and  the  federal  program. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

Policymakers  developing  a  long-term  care  program 
are  sensitive  to  the  different  legal  and  political  reali¬ 
ties  of  alternative  program  models.  Similar  awareness 
that  review  and  appeal  procedures  are  integrally  re¬ 
lated  to  program  policies  and  practices  is  critical  to 
developing  procedures  that  can  be  effectively  im¬ 
plemented.  If  a  long-term  care  program  is  placed 
under  the  administration  of  an  existing  benefit  pro¬ 
gram,  this  program’s  review  and  appeal  procedures 
are  likely  to  be  applied  to  the  new  program.  If  the  ex¬ 
isting  program’s  procedures  are  problematic,  the  long¬ 
term  care  program’s  procedures  also  are  likely  to  be 
problematic. 

Policy  decisions  about  the  manner  in  which  benefit 
programs  are  financed,  administered  or  operated  on  a 
day-to-day  basis  are  closely  related  to  the  review  and 
appeal  procedures  for  these  programs.  Consequently, 
if  these  procedures  are  to  be  fair,  certain  types  of  de¬ 
cisions  about  the  underlying  program  cannot  be  for¬ 
mulated  without  consideration  of  their  implications 
for  due  process. 

ASSUMPTION:  Review  and  appeal  procedures 
that  meet  constitutional  due  process  standards  are  es¬ 
sential  to  fair  benefit-related  determinations. 

Constitutional  due  process  provides  a  mechanism 
for  fair  determination  of  benefit  entitlement.  In  so 
doing,  it  provides  a  mechanism  for  fair  determination 
of  nonentitlement. 


Lesson:  Cost  Containment 

1.  When  beneficiaries’  claims  for  benefits  have  sig¬ 
nificantly  outstripped  available  funding,  program 
administrators  sometimes  have  responded  by  increas¬ 
ing  the  number  of  initial  claims  denials.  Assertive  indi¬ 
viduals  or  organizations  believing  that  beneficiaries 
were  legally  entitled  to  receive  these  benefits,  have 
protested  the  benefit  denials  administratively,  in  court 
or  to  Congress. 

2.  The  implementation  of  review  and  appeal  proce¬ 
dures  that  meet  statutory  and  constitutional  due 
process  standards  is  expensive.  In  planning  for  benefit 
programs  and  calculating  their  cost,  policymakers 
have  not  taken  sufficient  account  of  the  cost  of 
review  and  appeal  procedures,  even  though  these  are 
required  by  law. 


Benefit  programs,  chronically  strapped  for  funds, 
frequently  resort  to  cost-cutting  shortcuts  in  adminis¬ 
tering  review  and  appeal  processes.  Consequently, 
they  may  countenance  policies  and  practices  that  do 
not  meet  constitutional  and  statutory  standards  for 
due  process,  or  that  are  subject  to  controversy  itself 
expensive  to  resolve. 

As  with  protests  about  benefit  denials,  protests 
against  review  and  appeal  determinations  or  the  pro¬ 
cedures  themselves,  perceived  as  unfair  or  in  violation 
of  law,  have  taken  the  form  of  increased  resort  to 
benefit  program  review  and  appeal  procedures,  class 
actions  in  court,  and  complaints  to  Congress. 

3.  Some  benefit  programs  contain  costs  by  placing 
the  risk  of  payment  for  provision  of  services  not 
covered  by  the  program  on  the  providers  of  these 
services.  This  may  encourage  increased  provider  re¬ 
sponsibility  regarding  the  provision  of  services  to 
beneficiaries.  But  it  sometimes  results  in  denying 
beneficiaries  legally  allowable  benefits  and  due  proc¬ 
ess.  Because  there  is  generally  no  mechanism  in  bene¬ 
fit  programs  for  verification  of  coverage,  providers 
may  inform  beneficiaries  that  certain  services  will  not 
be  reimbursed  by  the  benefit  program.  If  benefici¬ 
aries  want  the  service,  they  will  have  to  pay  for  it 
themselves.  In  this  way,  providers  avoid  the  risk  of 
nonreimbursement  for  services  performed.  The  benefi¬ 
ciary  has  no  recourse  to  request  payment  from  the 
benefit  program  because  the  determination  of  non¬ 
payment  has  been  made  informally  and  prematurely 
by  the  provider. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

A  new  long-term  care  program  will  be  required  to 
implement  a  review  and  appeal  mechanism  that  com¬ 
plies  with  constitutional  and  statutory  standards  of 
fairness.  The  program  will  face  challenges  similar  to 
existing  programs  in  terms  of  allocating  funds  for  an 
effective  process. 

As  with  existing  benefit  programs,  if  beneficiaries 
or  service  providers  perceive  reviews  as  unfair,  they 
are  likely  to  protest  by  resorting  to  the  courts,  Con¬ 
gress,  and  the  review  process  itself.  Such  actions  may 
be  costly  to  the  program  both  monetarily  and  in 
terms  of  loss  of  credibility  with  beneficiaries  and  the 
public.  If  the  long-term  care  program  requires  pro¬ 
viders  to  assume  the  risk  for  coverage  of  non¬ 
reimbursed  services  to  beneficiaries,  it  may  create  a 
dilemma  for  providers  and  beneficiaries  similar  to  that 
in  existing  programs.  Although  there  may  be  sound 
fiscal  reasons  for  this  policy,  policymakers  need  to 
be  aware  that  it  could  be  perceived  as  unfair  by 
providers  and  beneficiaries  seeking  fair  claims 
determinations. 


205 


One  approach  to  mitigating  tension  between  pro¬ 
viders  and  beneficiaries  would  be,  whenever  feasible, 
for  a  long-term  care  program  to  establish  procedures 
for  determining  program  coverage  of  specific  services 
prior  to  providing  them. 

Policymakers  need  to  understand  the  potential 
impact  of  risk  placement  decisions  on  long-term  care 
beneficiaries  who  are  dependent  on  providers  for  the 
basics  of  life  over  an  extended  time  period.  They 
should  carefully  consider  what  sort  of  of  risks  on  pro¬ 
viders  are  likely  to  create  inherent  distrust  of  them 
among  beneficiaries. 

ASSUMPTION:  Benefit  programs  have  an  obliga¬ 
tion  to  insure  that  the  critical  components  of  due 
process  function  effectively. 

Although  the  requirements  of  due  process  in  review 
and  appeal  procedures  are  interpreted  differently 
among  the  various  benefit  programs,  there  are  certain 
basic  components  that  the  courts  have  identified  as 
critical  to  fair  determinations.  While  these  procedures 
often  function  effectively,  some  policies  or  practices 
may  either  be  unfair  or  create  the  perception  of  un¬ 
fairness  among  beneficiaries  or  the  general  public. 


Lesson:  Representation  by 
Lawyers  or  Lay  Advocates 

1.  Although  the  nonadversarial  nature  of  benefit 
program  review  and  appeal  procedures  is  generally 
acknowledged  as  appropriate,  a  right  to  representa¬ 
tion  at  some  stage  in  the  process  is  considered  an 
essential  element  of  fairness.  Benefit  programs  ac¬ 
knowledge  that  representation  significantly  increases 
the  likelihood  of  their  paying  disputed  claims. 

Despite  the  availability  of  several  sources  of  attor¬ 
ney  compensation,  a  significant  number  of  benefici¬ 
aries  do  not  have,  and  cannot  get,  legal  representation 
at  appellate  level  hearings.  In  addition,  very  few 
beneficiaries  have  any  type  of  representation  during 
the  early  stages  of  the  review  process.  This  may  be 
because  beneficiaries  are  not  adequately  informed 
about  its  usefulness,  it  is  unavailable,  or  programs  do 
not  encourage  its  use. 

2.  Many  beneficiaries  making  claims  against  benefit 
programs  are  vulnerable  and  inarticulate.  Because  the 
pool  of  attorneys  is  limited,  administrators  and  advo¬ 
cates  have  suggested  using  lay  representatives  in  the 
review  and  appeal  process.  Adequate  training  and  su¬ 
pervision  of  lay  representatives,  as  well  as  assurances 
of  their  independence  from  benefit  program  control, 


are  considered  prerequisites  to  their  augmenting  tradi¬ 
tional  legal  representation  of  beneficiaries. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 
A  long-term  care  program  inevitably  will  increase  the 
number  of  claims  subject  to  review  and  appeal,  and 
further  tax  the  limited  resources  available  for  repre¬ 
sentation  of  beneficiaries.  Many  of  the  beneficiaries  of 
a  long-term  care  program  are  likely  to  be  particularly 
vulnerable  both  physically  and  cognitively,  so  that 
this  program  may  need  to  provide  substantial  re¬ 
sources  for  representation  if  its  procedures  are  to  be 
perceived  as  fair.  Policymakers  need  to  consider  the 
extent  to  which  the  program  will  provide  assistance 
for  payment  of  either  lay  representatives  or  attorneys, 
the  stage  at  which  representation  is  to  be  authorized, 
and  the  form  it  will  take.  The  establishment  of  a  new 
program  of  lay  representation  might  provide  the  im¬ 
petus  to  explore  effective  alternatives  to  attorney  rep¬ 
resentation  for  all  benefit  programs. 

Lesson:  Adequate  Notice  and 
Timely  Review 

1.  Adequate  notice,  i.e.  notice  that  clearly  states  the 
reasons  for  denial  of  a  claim  and  beneficiaries’  rights 
to  review  and  appeal,  has  been  extremely  difficult  for 
benefit  programs  to  formulate.  Timely  review  of 
claims,  particularly  important  for  low-income,  frail  or 
disabled  individuals  who  rely  on  benefit  payments  for 
the  basics  of  life,  also  has  eluded  benefit  programs. 
Although  there  are  reasonable  explanations  for  these 
failures,  including  complexity  of  notice  requirements 
and  inadequate  staff  to  handle  the  claims  caseloads  ex¬ 
peditiously,  the  adverse  impact  on  beneficiaries  often 
jeopardizes  due  process. 

One  reason  for  the  lack  of  clarity  of  notices  is  the 
use  of  bureaucratic,  legal  or  other  technical  language 
to  communicate  with  beneficiaries,  many  of  whom 
have  only  an  eighth  grade  education.  Another  is  that 
the  use  of  computer-generated  notices  frequently  pro¬ 
duces  stilted  language.  Inconsistency  in  the  language 
or  content  of  notices  also  has  been  identified  as  a 
problem.  This  has  occurred  in  programs  delegating 
review  and  appeal  functions  to  several  contractors 
without  undertaking  to  establish  uniform  standards  or 
rules  of  operation.  Another  problem,  insufficiently 
specific  reasons  for  denial  of  claims,  has  been  identi¬ 
fied  by  the  courts  and  the  General  Accounting  Office 
as  violative  of  due  process  requirements. 

2.  The  slowness  of  the  review  and  appeal  process  in 
benefit  programs  can  have  dire  consequences  for 
beneficiaries.  Slowness  of  adjudication  has  been  criti- 


206 


cized  by  Congress,  the  courts  and  GAO.  Frequently, 
attempts  to  speed  up  initial  determination  or  reconsid¬ 
eration  by  actions  such  as  instituting  claims  processing 
quotas  have  resulted  in  increased  claims  denials,  many 
of  which  are  reversed  at  later  appellate  stages. 

Because  of  the  time  and  effort  involved  in  pursuing 
review  and  appeal  rights,  less  assertive  beneficiaries 
may  be  accepting  denials  of  benefits  to  which  they 
are  entitled.  While  this  outcome  may  result  in  savings 
to  the  benefit  programs,  it  is  inconsistent  with  achiev¬ 
ing  fair  determinations  of  benefit  eligibility. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

A  long-term  care  program  will  be  faced  with  the 
same  dilemmas  regarding  notice  and  timely  review 
that  plague  existing  programs.  The  due  process 
problems  can  be  reduced  in  this  program  if,  from  the 
beginning,  the  program  assumes  responsibility  for  de¬ 
veloping  and  implementing  a  system  of  uniform 
notices.  The  clarity  and  appropriateness  of  notice  lan¬ 
guage  is  likely  to  evolve  over  time,  but  bureaucratic 
sensitivity  to  notice-related  issues  could  reduce  litiga¬ 
tion  and  complaints  to  Congress.  The  long-term  care 
program  can  substantially  lower  the  time  involved  in 
the  review  and  appeal  process  by  insuring,  from  the 
beginning,  that  adequate  staff  resources  are  devoted 
to  these  functions,  and  that  personnel  are  trained  to 
provide  expeditious,  fair  reviews,  based  on  a  complete 
record. 

Lesson:  Access  to  Information 
Critical  to  Determinations 

Due  process  requires  that  beneficiaries  have  access 
to  information  on  which  decisions  are  based.  Further¬ 
more,  the  Administrative  Procedure  Act  requires  that 
benefit  programs  publish  final  rules  in  the  Federal 
Register  prior  to  implementation,  and  provide  the 
public  an  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  rules 
before  publication.  Benefit  programs,  however,  com¬ 
municate  most  of  their  policies  and  orders  regarding 
review  and  appeal  procedures  through  limited  circula¬ 
tion  manuals,  directives  to  specific  organizational 
units,  or  informal  contacts.  This  restricts  beneficiary 
access  to  information  that  forms  the  basis  for  denial 
determinations,  making  it  difficult  to  argue  effectively. 
Benefit  programs  may  avoid  statutory  requirements 
because  the  time  consumed  and  expense  incurred 
makes  compliance  unrealistic.  Their  policies  generally 
must  respond  to  rapidly  changing  technological  and 
economic  circumstances.  In  addition,  these  programs 
are  required  to  make  a  high  volume  of  review  and 
appeal  determinations  quickly. 


But  the  experience  of  benefit  programs  indicates 
that,  in  avoiding  these  requirements,  programs  have 
become  lax  in  their  obligations  to  inform  and  involve 
the  public  and  interested  parties  in  articulating  pro¬ 
gram  policy.  Following  from  this,  programs  have 
become  insufficiently  accountable  to  beneficiaries  and 
providers  for  consistent  and  open  decisionmaking  on 
claims.  As  a  result,  benefit  programs  are  perceived  as 
developing  policies  and  practices  that  foster  denials. 
Courts,  Congress,  special  commissions  and  the  GAO 
have  found  some  of  these  to  be  patent  violations  of 
due  process. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

A  long-term  care  program  has  the  opportunity  to  es¬ 
tablish  its  own  policies  on  informing  the  public  and 
beneficiaries  about  policies  or  practices  that  affect 
payment  of  claims.  An  information  policy  that  insures 
accessibility  of  relevant  internal  decisions  and  direc¬ 
tives,  either  by  encouraging  publication  or  developing 
alternative  mechanisms  for  information  sharing,  pro¬ 
motes  fairness  in  the  review  and  appeal  process.  As 
with  existing  programs,  withholding  information  from 
those  who  might  be  adversely  affected  by  it  could 
result  in  litigation,  protests  to  Congress,  or  the  estab¬ 
lishment  of  investigatory  committees.  A  long-term 
care  program  needs  to  balance  cost  savings  derived 
from  systematically  withholding  information  against 
the  increased  monetary  and  good-will  costs  of  various 
types  of  protest. 

Lesson:  Determination  Based  on  an 
Adequate  Record 

Adequacy  of  the  record  on  which  claims  review 
and  appeal  determinations  are  made  is  related  to  infor¬ 
mation  accessibility.  In  order  to  insure  fair  decisions, 
benefit  programs  need  procedures  for  development  of 
adequate  information  about  beneficiaries’  medical  con¬ 
ditions,  ability  to  function,  or  any  other  relevant  mat¬ 
ters.  Adequate  development  of  claims  records  is  often 
complicated  by  difficulty  in  obtaining  critical  informa¬ 
tion  or  by  the  nature  of  a  particular  beneficiary’s 
circumstances. 

Benefit  programs  have  been  criticized  for  failure  to 
implement  policies  or  practices  that  encourage  staff, 
particularly  at  the  early  stages  of  the  review  process, 
to  develop  accurate  and  complete  claims  information, 
including  ordering  medical  examinations  when  appro¬ 
priate.  This  failure  may  follow  from  a  decentralized 
or  poorly  monitored  review  process,  delegation  of 
record  development  to  private  contractors  without 
adequate  supervision  by  the  program,  or  allocation  of 
inadequate  resources  to  this  function. 


207 


The  results  have  been  creation  of  delays  in  the 
review  and  appeal  process  and  frustration  of  appellate 
level  adjudicators  attempting  to  rely  on  records  de¬ 
veloped  at  an  earlier  stage  as  the  basis  for  fair  deci¬ 
sions.  The  most  serious  consequence  for  due  process 
is  that  federal  programs  systematically  countenance 
claims  denials  based  on  inadequate  or  inaccurate 
information. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

Compilation  and  evaluation  of  information  may  be 
particularly  difficult  in  a  long-term  care  program  be¬ 
cause  of  the  progressive  deterioration  in  the  condition 
of  many  beneficiaries  and  the  frequent  reassessment  of 
their  needs.  Another  difficulty  may  arise  if  the  most 
regular  observers  of  a  beneficiary’s  condition  are 
family  caregivers  or  others  who  are  not  formal  par¬ 
ticipants  in  the  claims  determination  process. 

As  in  existing  programs,  a  new  program  will  be  re¬ 
quired  by  law  to  base  benefit-related  determinations 
on  accurate  and  complete  claims  records.  Unfortu¬ 
nately,  there  are  few  viable  models  for  effective 
enforcement  of  this  obligation.  Even  though  the  re¬ 
quirement  to  develop  an  adequate  record  is  difficult 
to  monitor,  long-term  care  program  planners  might 
consider  developing  mechanisms  for  this  in  order  to 
avoid  the  cost  consequences  of  unnecessary  delays  in 
the  review  and  appeal  of  claims. 

Ways  in  which  a  long-term  care  program  can  im¬ 
prove  its  capacity  to  develop  accurate  and  complete 
claims  records  include:  provision  of  adequate,  well- 
trained  staff  at  each  level  of  the  process,  motivated  to 
make  fair  decisions;  and  participation  of  beneficiaries 
and  their  representatives  in  the  information  collection 
process. 

In  addition,  a  long-term  care  program  might  con¬ 
sider  developing  standards  and  guidelines  for  acquir¬ 
ing  and  evaluating  critical  information.  It  could 
monitor  record  development  activities  and  hold  pro¬ 
gram  administrators  accountable  for  meeting  program 
standards. 

Lesson:  Verbal  Statements  in 
Front  of  Decisionmaker 

1.  Experience  of  benefit  programs  indicates  that 
beneficiaries  receiving  face-to-face  reviews  of  some 
sort  by  decisionmakers  are  significantly  more  likely  to 
prevail  than  those  who  receive  only  on-the-record  de¬ 
terminations.  But  most  benefit  programs  discourage 
face-to-face  reviews  until  a  late  stage  of  the  review 
and  appeal  process. 


Face-to-face  reviews  by  decisionmakers,  while 
more  time  consuming  and  expensive  than  on-the- 
record  reviews,  generally  are  considered  to  increase 
beneficiaries  perceptions  of  fairness  in  conduct  of  re¬ 
views  or  appeals.  This  may  be  so  even  if  the  reviews 
result  in  denial  of  benefits.  To  the  extent  that  early 
opportunities  for  face-to-face  reviews  increase  benefi¬ 
ciary  satisfaction  with  the  determination  process,  they 
could  save  benefit  programs  money  and  time  spent  on 
prolonged  appeals.  GAO  and  expert  commissions 
have  recommended  that  benefit  programs  institute 
more  early  face-to-face  reviews  by  decisionmakers. 

2.  As  the  volume  of  hearings  has  increased,  benefit 
programs,  seeking  to  increase  the  efficiency  and 
reduce  the  cost  of  the  review  and  appeal  process, 
have  considered  conducting  hearings  by  telephone. 
Some  programs  continue  to  offer  this  alternative  to 
beneficiaries.  In  general,  experiments  with  telephone 
hearings  in  benefit  programs  have  not  been  an  un¬ 
qualified  success.  Despite  certain  perceived  advan¬ 
tages  to  frail  populations  in  not  having  to  travel  to 
hearing  sites,  many  knowledgeable  individuals  con¬ 
sider  that  telephone  hearings  increase  the  inherent  im¬ 
balance  of  power  between  decisionmakers  and 
beneficiaries. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

Face-to-face  review  by  a  decisionmaker  at  some  stage 
in  the  review  and  appeal  process  is  established  prac¬ 
tice  in  benefit  programs.  It  may  be  particularly  criti¬ 
cal  in  a  long-term  care  program  where  initial  claims 
decisions  are  made  by  case  managers.  In  order  to  de¬ 
velop  or  monitor  effective  care  plans,  case  managers 
are  likely  to  encourage  participation  of  the  benefici¬ 
aries  and  their  caretakers.  Beneficiaries,  accustomed 
to  involvement  with  decisionmaking  in  the  long-term 
care  program,  will  expect  to  have  direct  access  to 
decisionmakers  reviewing  their  claims.  Because  needs 
reassessments  may  be  frequent  and  changes  in  the 
services  provided  may  be  subtle,  the  ability  of 
reviewers  to  evaluate  beneficiaries’  status  first  hand 
may  be  even  more  important  to  fair  determinations 
than  in  existing  benefit  programs. 

Although  telephone  hearings  should  be  considered 
for  those  beneficiaries  who  want  them,  a  long-term 
care  program  should  not  rely  on  them.  Their  draw¬ 
back,  particularly  for  elderly  persons  who  may  have 
hearing  loss  or  are  confused,  or  for  mentally  ill  indi¬ 
viduals,  is  evident. 


208 


Lesson:  Hearings  Prior  to 
Denial  or  Termination  of  Benefit 

The  issue  of  whether  benefit  programs,  providers 
or  beneficiaries  should  pay  the  costs  of  care  or  of 
pension  payments  during  the  pendency  of  claims  re¬ 
views  or  appeals  has  economic  and  administrative  im¬ 
plications  for  all  parties.  Because  frail,  low-income 
beneficiaries,  in  particular,  may  rely  on  payments 
from  benefit  programs  as  their  lifeline,  due  process 
concepts  afford  them  some  protection,  although  its 
extent  is  unclear.  Particularly  when  termination  of  on¬ 
going  benefits  or  services,  or  denial  of  critically 
needed  medical  care  are  at  stake,  beneficiaries  may  be 
entitled  to  some  sort  of  review  or  appeal  procedure 
prior  to  withdrawal  of  benefits  or  refusal  to  pay  for 
care.  But  the  need  for  a  speedy  determination  may 
take  precedence  over  considerations  of  beneficiary 
vulnerability.  In  this  situation,  due  process  generally 
requires  that  the  beneficiary  have  access  to  a  benefit 
program’s  established  review  and  appeal  process  im¬ 
mediately  after  an  adverse  determination  has  been 
made. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

The  law  regarding  who  bears  the  cost  of  care  pend¬ 
ing  exhaustion  of  beneficiary  review  and  appeal  rights 
is  in  flux.  Consequently,  it  is  difficult  to  predict  the 
legality  of  specific  policies  that  a  long-term  care  pro¬ 
gram  might  develop  to  address  this  issue.  In  develop¬ 
ing  review  and  appeal  procedures  for  a  long-term 
care  program  policymakers  need  to  determine  the  cir¬ 
cumstances  in  which  benefits  will  be  available  pend¬ 
ing  a  decision  to  terminate  benefits.  Beneficiaries  of 
this  program  will  be  physically  or  mentally  vulnerable 
and  may  also  be  poor.  The  home-and-community- 
based  service  aspect  of  the  program,  by  its  nature,  is 
focused  on  assisting  individuals  with  substantial  de¬ 
pendency  to  function  outside  of  an  institution.  Prema¬ 
ture  deprivation  of  support  could  be  devastating. 

Also,  the  definition  of  termination  in  a  long-term 
care  program  is  more  complex  than  for  most  existing 
benefit  programs.  Once  an  individual  receives  benefits 
based  on  eligibility  for  assistance  with  ADLs,  changes 
in  the  care  plan  are  a  more  likely  occurrence  than 
total  termination.  Policymakers  need  to  consider  care¬ 
fully  which  of  these  changes  could  not  be  imple¬ 
mented  prior  to  the  beneficiary’s  exercise  of  some 
type  of  review  and  appeal  rights. 


Lesson:  Decisions  by  an  Impartial 
Individual  or  Panel 

When  the  review  and  appeal  process  is  linked 
closely  to  program  administration,  policies  insuring 
the  independence  and  integrity  of  program  reviews 
and  appeals  are  essential.  Benefit  programs  have  de¬ 
veloped  a  variety  of  mechanisms  intended  to  separate 
these  procedures  as  much  as  possible  from  ongoing 
program  influences.  In  addition,  benefit  programs  gen¬ 
erally  provide  for  some  sort  of  judicial  review.  Bene¬ 
ficiaries’  representatives,  Congress  and  the  courts 
have  expressed  concern  about  the  ability  of  de¬ 
cisionmakers  to  function  independently,  and  about  de¬ 
liberate  program  intrusions  into  this  sphere  of  activity. 
Three  significant  considerations  in  developing  inde¬ 
pendent  mechanisms  are: 

(1)  Insuring  the  ability  of  high  level,  expert  admin¬ 
istrative  adjudicators  such  as  administrative  law 
judges  to  make  independent,  objective  decisions  about 
benefit  eligibility; 

(2)  Understanding  that  when  a  benefit  program 
designates  private  contractor  organizations  as  claims 
adjudicators  and  reviewers,  contracts  with  these  orga¬ 
nizations  must  establish  sufficient  independence  from 
the  benefit  program  to  insure  fair  decisionmaking;  and 

(3)  Avoiding  a  review  and  appeal  structure  con¬ 
tained  entirely  within  the  agency  responsible  for  the 
benefit  program,  with  no  recourse  for  beneficiaries  to 
the  judicial  system. 

Implications  for  a  New  Long-Term  Care  Program — 

The  initial  assessment  of  eligibility  for  a  long-term 
care  program  and  the  development  of  beneficiaries’ 
care  plans  are  likely  to  be  performed  by  organizations 
or  individuals  employed  by,  or  contracting  with,  the 
long-term  care  program.  These  decisionmakers  may 
be  expected  to  interpret  policies  and  directives  relat¬ 
ing  to  claims  determinations  from  the  perspective  of 
the  program,  or  to  follow  program  cost  containment 
guidelines.  Because  of  this  inherent  potential  for  con¬ 
flict  of  interest  between  beneficiaries  and  initial 
decisionmakers,  due  process  requires  that  policy¬ 
makers  be  particularly  sensitive  to  establishing  mecha¬ 
nisms  that  will  insure  impartial  reviews  and  appeals. 


209 


WHAT  MECHANISMS  MIGHT  BE 
DEVELOPED  TO  PROVIDE 
ADVOCACY  SERVICES  ON  BEHALF  OF 
BENEFICIARIES  IN  THE 
BENEFIT  PROGRAM  REVIEW  AND 
APPEAL  PROCESS,  OR  TO  INCREASE 
THE  ABILITY  OF  BENEFICIARIES  TO 
ADVOCATE  FOR  THEMSELVES? 

One  crucial  element  of  due  process,  beneficiary  rep¬ 
resentation,  is  most  appropriately  provided  by  organi¬ 
zations  or  funding  sources  outside  the  authority  of  the 
benefit  program.  Effective  representation  and  educa¬ 
tion  of  beneficiaries  about  their  rights  can  serve  as 
checks  on  failure  to  provide  for  the  other  legally 
mandated  elements  of  administrative  due  process. 

The  caseloads  of  existing  benefit  programs  are  not 
being  served  adequately  by  attorneys  or  lay  advo¬ 
cates.  A  major  reason  for  this  is  that  most  benefici¬ 
aries  cannot  afford  to  pay  private  attorneys  the  actual 
cost  of  their  services.  The  community  of  attorneys 
willing  to  undertake  pro  bono  representation  of  benefi¬ 
ciaries  cannot  begin  to  meet  the  need  for  their  serv¬ 
ices.  The  pool  of  committed  and  trained  volunteer  lay 
representatives  assisting  in  certain  programs  and  geo¬ 
graphic  areas  cannot  fill  the  gap  either.  Today,  few 
programs  rely  on  paid  and  trained  lay  individuals  to 
represent  benefit  program  beneficiaries.  With  the  en¬ 
actment  of  a  long-term  care  benefit  program  the  al¬ 
ready  overwhelming  population  of  unrepresented 
beneficiaries  will  increase  significantly.  What  policies 
and  programs  should  Congress  and  national  organiza¬ 
tions  concerned  about  beneficiary  representation 
pursue  in  order  to  institutionalize  effective  benefit 
program  advocacy  services  on  a  national  basis? 

Funding  Sources  for  Existing 
Advocacy  Programs 

The  federal  government  provides  several  sources  of 
funding  for  advocacy  on  behalf  of  low-income  indi¬ 
viduals  regarding  benefit  claims.  Some  programs  re¬ 
ceive  funding  from  more  than  one  of  these  sources. 

The  Legal  Services  Corporation  Act  authorizes 
funds  for  offices  that  provide  legal  services  to  low 
income  individuals  at  the  local  level.  These  offices 
may  represent  elderly  or  disabled  clients  in  their 
claims  against  benefit  programs.157 


157  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  2996,  et  seq. 


The  Older  Americans  Act  requires  that  funds 
granted  to  the  states  and  distributed  to  Area  Agencies 
on  Aging  be  used  to  provide  legal  assistance  to  the 
elderly.158  This  is  defined  as  “legal  advice  and  repre¬ 
sentation  by  an  attorney  (including,  to  the  extent  fea¬ 
sible,  counseling  or  other  appropriate  assistance  by  a 
paralegal  or  law  student  under  the  supervision  of  an 
attorney),  and  includes  counseling  or  representation 
by  a  nonlawyer  where  permitted  by  law,  to  older  in¬ 
dividuals  with  economic  or  social  needs.”159  This 
statute  also  requires  states  to  fund  an  extensive  net¬ 
work  of  ombudsmen  to  represent  nursing  home  resi¬ 
dents  in  disputes  with  nursing  homes,  and  authorizes 
states  to  extend  this  service  to  residents  of  board  and 
care  homes  or  recipients  of  home  health  care.160  In 
addition,  this  Act  provides  limited  resources  to  states 
to  demonstrate  and  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of 
consumer  protection  projects  intended  to  protect 
older  individuals  receiving  services  in  the  home  that 
are  furnished  or  assisted  with  public  funds.  State  or 
local  ombudsmen  and  legal  assistance  agencies  may  be 
supported  under  this  program.161 

The  Equal  Access  to  Justice  Act162  authorizes 
compensation  for  attorneys  successfully  representing 
clients  in  cases  against  federal  agencies  in  federal 
court.  Certain  actions  against  benefit  programs  are  in¬ 
cluded.  Individual  practitioners  and  legal  services  at¬ 
torneys  may  apply  for  compensation  under  this  act. 
The  Developmental  Disabilities  Assistance  and  Bill  of 
Rights  Act  163  provides  payment  to  state-designated 
agencies  to  provide  protective  services  for  develop- 
mentally  disabled  children  and  adults,  and  to  repre¬ 
sent  them  before  administrative  agencies  or  courts. 

The  Protection  and  Advocacy  for  Mentally  Ill  In¬ 
dividuals  Act,164  provides  payment  for  services  simi¬ 
lar  to  those  for  the  developmentally  disabled,  only  to 
agencies  already  receiving  funds  under  that  legisla¬ 
tion.  In  addition  to  federal  funding,  advocacy  and 
consumer  education  programs  may  receive  financing 
from  various  state  sources  (e.g.  agencies  focused  on 
aging  or  disabled  populations,  health  departments  or 
attorneys  general  offices),  and  from  private  organiza¬ 
tions  such  as  the  American  Association  of  Retired 
Persons  or  the  National  Council  of  Senior  Citizens. 
Direct  compensation  by  clients,  with  or  without  a 
benefit  program’s  agreement  to  withhold  payment 
from  benefits  owed,  offers  another  source  of  private 
payment  for  client  representation. 


158  42  U.S.C.  Sec.  3007(a)(15). 

159  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  3022. 

160  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  3007(12). 

161  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  4028. 

162  28  U.S.C.,  Sec.  2417  (b),  (d). 

163  42  U.S.C.,  Sec.  6001,  et  seq. 

164  P.L.  99-319. 


210 


Existing  Advocacy  Programs 

A  variety  of  advocacy  programs,  some  using  attor¬ 
neys,  others  lay  individuals  or  a  combination  of  legal 
and  lay  staff,  actively  provide  some  type  of  advocacy 
to  beneficiaries.  These  programs  may  receive  federal 
and/or  state  or  private  funding.  Some  rely  heavily  on 
volunteers,  others  on  paid  staff.  Categories  of  services 
these  programs  provide  include: 

•  legal  services  (general  or  specializing  in  a  type  of 
claim) 

•  hot  lines 

•  ombudsman 

•  developmentally  and  mentally  disabled  protective 
services 

•  benefit  counseling  services 

•  pro  bono  legal  representation 

•  professional  lay  representation 

•  consumer  education 

Some  programs  combine  several  categories  of 
service.  Without  evaluating  either  the  programs  or 
the  services  that  they  provide,  it  is  useful  to  include 
examples  of  existing  programs  with  some  experience 
in  advocating  for  or  providing  consumer  education  to 
the  beneficiary  community. 

Legal  Services — Legal  services  organizations  pro¬ 
vide  legal  advice  and  representation  for  low  income 
clients  either  on  a  sliding  fee  scale  basis  or  for  free. 
They  also  may  mount  class  action  suits  which  can  be 
effective  in  attacking  the  policies  and  practices  of  ben¬ 
efit  programs. 

Typically,  clients  walk  into  or  telephone  a  legal 
services  program  to  ask  for  assistance  without  having 
had  prior  contact.  Ethnically  based  organizations, 
unions  and  others  may  also  sponsor  legal  services  pro¬ 
grams  for  their  members.  In  addition,  some  legal  serv¬ 
ices  programs  concentrate  on  a  particular  category  of 
client.  The  National  Senior  Citizens  Law  Center,  for 
example,  represents  the  elderly  in  a  variety  of  matters 
involving  benefit  programs.  National  Veterans  Legal 
Services  provides  similar  assistance  to  veterans. 

In  recent  years,  a  number  legal  services  programs 
have  been  established  to  represent  Medicare  benefici¬ 
aries  seeking  payment  of  claims  under  the  various 
Medicare  programs.  One  program  in  Connecticut, 
Legal  Assistance  to  Medicare  Patients  (LAMP) 
claims  a  95  percent  success  rate,  for  700  clients 
served,  in  obtaining  benefit  awards  for  clients. 165 


165  Legal  Assistance  to  Medicare  Patients,  Willimantic,  Ct.,  Your  Right 
to  Medicare  Benefits  for  Home  Health  Care,  May  1989.  (pamphlet) 


Similar  programs,  for  example,  Massachusetts  Medi¬ 
care  Advocacy  Project  and  Medicare  Advocacy 
Project  of  Los  Angeles,  assist  beneficiaries  with  a 
range  of  concerns  in  relation  to  Medicare. 

Hot  Lines — Legal  hot  lines  are  being  established  for 
beneficiaries  to  call  in  order  to  receive  information 
and  advice  about  claims-related  problems.  Their  struc¬ 
ture  and  bureaucratic  relationships  may  be  critical  to 
successful  operation.  The  Legal  Council  for  the  El¬ 
derly  (LCE),  an  affiliate  of  the  American  Association 
of  Retired  Persons,  established  a  Hotline  pilot  project 
in  Pittsburgh,  PA  in  1985  that  provides  free  legal 
advice  by  telephone  to  all  older  residents  of  the  area. 
There  are  now  four  LCE  Hotlines  in  the  United 
States.  Attorneys  receiving  hotline  calls  may  provide 
only  brief  services,  but  may  make  referrals  to  social 
or  legal  services  programs  or  private  attorneys.166 

Ombudsman — The  ombudsman,  as  developed  under 
the  Older  Americans  Act,  is  a  trained  volunteer,  su¬ 
pervised  by  an  attorney,  who  advocates  on  behalf  of 
nursing  home  residents  regarding  quality  assurance 
issues.  Residents  may  complain,  for  example,  that  the 
nursing  home  is  providing  inadequate  service  or  abus¬ 
ing  and  harassing  the  residents. 

Although  recent  legislation  authorizes  extension  of 
this  activity  to  board  and  care  homes  or  home  care, 
most  states  have  not  done  so.  In  part,  this  is  because 
there  has  been  no  increase  in  funds  accompanying  this 
authorization.  Also,  the  protection  of  clients  from 
poor  quality  service  in  the  community  setting  requires 
a  different  model  of  practice  than  nursing  home  advo¬ 
cacy.  The  ombudsman  would  have  to  be  trained  dif¬ 
ferently  in  order  to  handle  a  large  volume  of  small 
concerns  that  require  immediate  attention. 

The  extension  of  the  ombudsman  concept  to  more 
generalized  advocacy  on  behalf  of  beneficiaries  of  a 
long-term  care  benefit  program  would,  according  to 
some,  stretch  the  resources  of  ombudsman  programs 
substantially,  and  require  staff  to  deliver  services  dif¬ 
ferent  in  critical  ways  from  those  contemplated  by  the 
Older  Americans  Act.  Existing  ombudsman  programs 
deal  with  local  level  service  providers,  using  volun¬ 
teers  to  perform  specific  tasks.  Representation  of 
beneficiaries,  or  even  assistance  with  filing  claims  and 
requests  for  review,  would  require  a  completely 
different  orientation,  intensive  training  and  intensive 
supervision.167 


188  Elder  Law  Forum,  Legal  Counsel  for  the  Elderly,  1,  (5)  (September/ 
October  1989). 

187  Ann  Lordeman,  National  Association  of  State  Units  on  Aging,  conver¬ 
sation  with  author  (Washington,  D.C.:  November  15,  1989). 


211 


28-861  -  90  -  8  :  QL  3 


Another  issue  in  expanding  the  ombudsman  pro¬ 
gram  to  serve  long-term  care  beneficiaries  is  lines  of 
authority.  Currently,  the  ombudsman  program  is 
either  located  within  an  Area  Agency  on  Aging  or  is 
a  contractor  to  the  agency.  These  agencies  may 
become  responsible  for  administration  and  case  man¬ 
agement  in  a  long-term  care  program.  An  effective 
long-term  care  ombudsman  program  would  have  to 
function  independently  of  the  organization — most 
likely  a  public  agency  or  its  contractor — that  develops 
and  manages  the  care  plans  for  beneficiaries. 

Developmentally  and  Mentally  Disabled  Protective 
Services — Under  federal  law,  states  are  required  to  es¬ 
tablish  units  that  provide  protective  services  for  the 
developmentally  and  mentally  disabled,  and  to  pro¬ 
vide  advocacy  on  their  behalf,  including  asserting 
their  entitlements  to  various  federal  benefits.  The 
Maryland  Developmentally  Disabled  Center  is 
an  example. 

This  center  operates  an  advocacy  and  protective 
services  program  at  three  locations  in  the  state.  It  uses 
trained  lay  advocates  supervised  by  attorneys  to 
handle  3,000  cases  a  year  on  a  range  of  issues.  Be¬ 
cause  the  center  is  responsible  for  the  developmen¬ 
tally  disabled,  it  receives  funds  to  provide  similar 
services  for  the  institutionalized  mentally  ill.  The  staff 
handles  its  own  caseload  including  interviewing  cli¬ 
ents,  filling  out  applications  and  other  forms  for  SSI, 
and  representing  beneficiaries  through  the  ALJ  level 
in  SSI  cases.  Center  attorneys  represent  beneficiaries 
in  court  and  implement  proactive  strategies  to  gain 
enforcement  of  rights.  The  Center  provides  technical 
assistance  and  training  to  its  satellite  offices. 

Benefit  Counseling  Services — Particularly  in  the 
area  of  medical  benefits,  programs,  staffed  largely  by 
volunteers,  provide  extensive  counseling  and  related 
services  to  beneficiaries.  The  predominant  program  is 
the  American  Association  of  Retired  Persons’ 
(AARP)  Medicare  and  Medicaid  Assistance  Program 
(MMAP),  established  10  years  ago,  and  currently 
serving  60,000  clients  in  35  states.  About  3,400  lay 
volunteers  counsel  beneficiaries  as  to  their  options  and 
entitlements,  and  assist  in  understanding  benefit  pro¬ 
gram  procedures,  filling  out  forms,  and  finding  experi¬ 
enced  advocates.  A  unique  feature  of  the  program  is 
that  volunteers  are  available  to  meet  with  clients  in 
their  homes.  AARP’s  participation  in  MMAP  includes 
establishing  contact  with  local  nonprofit  agencies 
with  which  MMAP  can  affiliate.  Through  these  agen¬ 
cies  with  broad  links  to  the  community,  clients  are  re¬ 
ferred  to  MMAP. 

In  addition,  AARP  provides  technical  assistance, 
develops  and  distributes  manuals  and  other  material, 


provides  regular  training  of  new  volunteers,  updates 
experienced  volunteers  on  new  benefit  program  devel¬ 
opments,  coordinates  among  MMAP  programs  and 
supervises  the  entire  project. 

Similar  programs  are  being  funded  by  state  govern¬ 
ments  in  Massachusetts,  New  Jersey,  North  Carolina, 
Illinois,  Washington,  California  and  Maryland.  Mary¬ 
land’s  Senior  Health  Insurance  Counseling  and  Assist¬ 
ance  Program  (SHICAP)  focuses  on  Medicare  and 
Medigap  insurance.  Staff  provides  claims  assistance, 
and  files  requests  for  review  and  reconsideration  on 
behalf  of  beneficiaries.  Legal  backup  is  available  for 
its  claims  assistance  work.  In  addition,  the  Maryland 
Attorney  General,  through  its  Consumer  Health  Ad¬ 
vocate  Office,  litigates  claims  and  related  cases. 

Pro  Bono  Representation — Although  private  attor¬ 
ney  representation  of  indigent  clients  is  established 
practice,  it  only  scratches  the  surface  of  the  need  for 
legal  assistance.  Several  states  have  programs  encour¬ 
aging  attorneys  to  provide  pro  bono  services  to  the  el¬ 
derly.  Similar  programs  may  be  available  for  the 
handicapped,  mentally  ill  or  developmentally  disabled. 
Legal  Counsel  for  the  Elderly  (LCE)  provides  train¬ 
ing  for  attorneys  interested  in  representing  benefit 
program  beneficiaries  without  receiving  compensa¬ 
tion.  The  American  Bar  Association,  through  its 
Commission  on  the  Legal  Problems  of  the  Elderly 
and  the  Private  Bar  Involvement  Project,  publishes 
literature  and  holds  conferences  to  facilitate  the  par¬ 
ticipation  of  the  private  bar  in  developing  special 
projects,  called  Pro  Bono  Seniorum,  to  represent  the 
elderly. 

One  private  program,  The  Volunteer  Lawyers 
Project,  established  by  LCE  in  1977,  trains  members 
of  the  bar,  frequently  affiliated  with  law  firms,  in  all 
areas  of  elderlaw.  LCE  then  assigns  cases  to  these  at¬ 
torneys,  providing  them  with  technical  assistance  and 
maintaining  quality  control.  The  attorneys  accept  no 
fees  for  their  services.  In  addition,  LCE  provides 
legal  representation  directly  to  low-income  elderly 
clients. 

Lay  Representation — A  long-term  care  program 
will  drastically  increase  the  number  of  benefit  pro¬ 
gram  beneficiaries  in  need  of  counseling,  claims  assist¬ 
ance,  and  representation.  A  partial  response  to  this 
need  is  the  establishment  of  a  new  profession  of  lay 
benefit  specialist.  Currently  benefit  program  regula¬ 
tions  and,  in  some  states,  the  law  inhibit  the  develop¬ 
ment  of  a  corps  of  lay  advocates  to  perform  certain 
functions  traditionally  within  the  province  of  the  legal 
profession. 


212 


Barriers  to  Developing  a  Substantial  Corps  of  Lay  Ad¬ 
vocates — In  order  to  facilitate  representation  by 
nonlawyers  before  benefit  programs,  these  programs 
must  issue  clear  regulations  implementing  the  author¬ 
ity  granted  them  by  the  Administrative  Procedure 
Act  to  permit  lay  representation.  Unless  the  benefit 
programs  clarify  their  status,  nonlawyers  attempting 
to  provide  assistance  to  beneficiaries  may  fear  pros¬ 
ecution  under  state  laws  for  unauthorized  practice  of 
law.  In  addition,  some  state  laws  need  to  be  amended 
in  order  to  grant  lay  advocates  the  right  to  provide 
assistance,  including  some  level  of  representation, 
without  fear  of  reprisals  from  the  state  bar. 168 

A  Benefit  Specialist  Program — The  Center  for  Public 
Representation  in  Madison,  Wisconsin  has  developed 
a  statewide  network  of  lay  benefit  specialists.  The 
program  was  established  in  1977  on  the  premise  that 
low  income  elderly  were  not  receiving  their  fair  share 
of  government  entitlements  because  the  benefit  pro¬ 
grams  were  too  complex  and  the  bureaucracy  face¬ 
less.  In  order  to  maximize  the  resources  available  for 
advocacy,  the  Center  developed  mechanisms  for 
training  lay  personnel  to  be  advocates,  continually  up¬ 
dating  them  on  benefit  program  developments,  and 
providing  ongoing  attorney  supervision.  At  the  point 
when  a  case  requires  an  attorney’s  skill,  it  is  trans¬ 
ferred  to  legal  staff. 

Wisconsin  has  placed  a  benefit  specialist  in  the 
office  of  every  County  Committee  on  Aging.  The 
Center  provides  back-up  for  county  offices,  direct 
representation  and  technical  assistance. 


168  Zona  Fairbanks  Hostetler,  “Nonlawyer  Assistance  to  Individuals  in 
Federal  Mass  Justice  Agencies:  The  Need  for  Improved  Guidelines,"  The 
Administrative  Law  Journal,  2,  (1)  (1988):  1 14,  et  seq. 


Consumer  Education — The  publication  of  hand¬ 
books,  guidelines  and  pamphlets  describing  benefici¬ 
ary  entitlements  and  rights  to  review  and  appeal  from 
benefit  denials  is  widespread.  Benefit  programs  are 
required  to  publish  this  sort  of  literature.  Insurance 
carriers  and  fiscal  intermediaries,  providers,  consumer 
organizations  and  others  may  also  provide  it.  The 
American  Association  of  Retired  Persons  publishes  a 
large  volume  of  information  intended  to  inform  older 
consumers  about  subjects  of  interest  to  them,  includ¬ 
ing  benefit  entitlements.  National  organizations  repre¬ 
senting  handicapped  or  developmentally  or  mentally 
disabled  individuals  probably  provide  this  service  to 
their  members  also.  The  quality  of  publications  from 
so  many  sources  is  bound  to  vary,  and  the  effective¬ 
ness  of  their  distribution  has  not  been  systematically 
evaluated. 

Consumer  education  efforts  tend  to  be  focused  on 
particular  topics.  The  development  of  materials,  even 
within  one  organization  or  agency,  often  is  not  ade¬ 
quately  coordinated,  so  that  there  may  be  a  lot  of 
information  available  about  some  aspects  of  benefit 
programs  and  not  enough  about  others. 


Summary 

Advocacy  and  consumer  information  will  be  criti¬ 
cal  to  assuring  that  a  long-term  care  program’s  claims 
review  and  appeal  procedures  comply  with  due  proc¬ 
ess  and  are  available  to  all  beneficiaries  with  a  legiti¬ 
mate  need  to  use  them.  Fortunately,  there  are  a 
number  of  innovative  programs  that  might  serve  as 
models  for  encouraging  beneficiaries  of  this  program 
program  to  be  effective  consumers  of  its  services,  and, 
when  necessary,  to  assert  their  rights  to  the  services 
that  it  provides. 


213 


Staff  Memoranda  and 
Briefing  Papers 


Canada’s  Health  Care  System:  Questions  Americans  Should  Ask  * 


It  is  not  hard  to  understand  why  the  Canadian 
health  care  system  looks  attractive  to  Americans  con¬ 
cerned  about  both  large  numbers  of  uninsured  citizens 
and  high  medical  costs.  The  most  easily  measured  at¬ 
tributes  of  the  Canadian  system  look  very  appealing: 

•  universal  coverage,  with  no  financial  barriers  to 
care  (compared  to  31-37  million  uninsured  in  the 
U.S.) 

•  per  capita  spending  at  two-thirds  the  U.S.  level 
(about  $1,200  in  adjusted  U.S.  dollars  in  1985, 
compared  to  about  $1,800  in  the  U.S.) 

•  slower  rates  of  increase  in  per  capita  health  care 
costs,  measured  in  constant  dollars  (3.1  percent 
per  year  in  Canada,  4.8  percent  per  year  in  the 
U.S.,  1971-1985). 

To  draw  lessons  from  the  Canadian  experience, 
however,  it  is  necessary  to  look  at  what  is  less  easily 
measurable  in  the  system — in  particular,  the  factors 
that  explain  lower  spending,  the  consequences  of 
lower  spending,  and  the  ways  in  which  spending  is 
held  in  check. 


Why  Does  Canada  Spend  Less? 

Canada’s  lower  health  spending  per  person  is  not  a 
function  of  fewer  doctors  (physicians  per  person  are 
about  equal  in  Canada  and  the  U.S.),  fewer  hospital 
beds  (Canada  has  more  than  the  U.S.),  or  lower  use  of 
institutional  care  (Canadians  use  more  hospital  days 
per  person  than  Americans). 

Rather,  lower  spending  reflects  lower  costs  per 
hospital  day,  lower  fees  to  physicians,  and  lower 
administrative  costs.  Lower  costs  per  hospital  day 
appear  to  mean  lower  “intensity”  or  resources  per 
day  of  hospital  care — partly  a  reflection  of  lower  use 
of  sophisticated  technologies,  fewer  staff,  and  greater 
use  of  hospitals  by  chronic  care,  rather  than  acutely 
ill,  patients.  Lower  physician  fees  reflect  the  fact  that 
in  Canada,  in  contrast  to  the  U.S.,  government  deter¬ 
mines  fees  and  can,  in  fact,  keep  fee  increases  below 
rates  of  inflation.  Administrative  cost  savings  come 

•  Briefing  paper  prepared  by  Judith  Feder  for  July  27,  1989,  working 
meeting. 


from  universal  eligibility,  common  benefits,  and  reli¬ 
ance  on  a  single  (government)  insurer — eliminating 
marketing  expenses,  eligibility  and  benefit  determina¬ 
tions,  and  simplifying  revenue  collection  and  payment 
of  bills. 


What  are  the  Consequences  of  Canada’s 
Lower  Spending? 

In  terms  of  services  provided,  the  most  visible  con¬ 
sequence  of  lower  spending  in  Canada  appears  to  be 
lower  availability  and  use  of  sophisticated  technol¬ 
ogies.  Hospitals  are  paid  global  budgets  and  must 
decide  how  to  allocate  those  budgets  among  alterna¬ 
tive  activities.  In  addition,  they  must  receive  govern¬ 
ment  approval  to  adopt  new  technologies.  The  result 
is  that  specialty  services  like  cardiac  surgery  or  radi¬ 
ation  therapy  are  available  in  fewer  Canadian  than 
American  hospitals.  Furthermore,  high  occupancy 
rates,  partly  related  to  long  stays  by  chronic  care  pa¬ 
tients,  may  tie  up  hospital  beds  and  create  service 
delays  (e.g.,  for  cardiac  or  hip  replacement  surgery). 

What  we’d  most  like  to  know  about  lower  spending 
is  what  it  means  for  people’s  health.  Unfortunately, 
our  capacity  to  provide  that  answer  is  decidedly  lim¬ 
ited.  We  measure  health  status  at  very  gross  levels — 
primarily  in  terms  of  death  rates,  at  various  ages,  and 
death  rates  are  affected  by  numerous  other  factors  be¬ 
sides  health  care.  Canada’s  lower  spending  is  not  asso¬ 
ciated  with  lower  performance  on  these  measures;  in 
fact,  Canada  has  substantially  lower  infant  mortality 
rates  than  the  U.S. 

Such  gross  measures,  however,  do  not  tell  us 
whether  lower  availability  and  use  of  technologies  or 
delays  in  surgical  procedures,  which  may  occur  in  the 
Canadian  system,  have  negative  consequences  for 
health. 


How  is  Spending  Held  in  Check? 

Because  there  is  only  one  payer  for  health  care  in 
Canada — the  government  in  each  province — and  be- 


217 


cause  the  government  sets  rates,  government  decisions 
determine  what  providers  get  paid.  By  limiting  what 
it  will  pay,  the  Canadian  system  limits  the  supply  of 
health  care  services.  For  hospitals,  limits  come  from 
global  budgets  and  approval  of  capital  expenditures. 
For  physicians,  government  limits  access  to  technol¬ 
ogy  (provided  primarily  in  hospital  settings)  and  limits 
fees.  In  Quebec,  limits  apply  to  total  expenditures  (per 
capita  incomes,  for  general  practitioners).  Attempts  to 
incorporate  similar  caps  in  other  provinces  have 
aroused  considerable  controversy. 

Physicians  fees  (and  expenditure  targets  in  Quebec) 
are  set  through  negotiation  between  provider  associa¬ 
tions  and  provincial  governments.  The  process  is  one 
of  political  conflict,  “played  out,”  as  Canadian  econo¬ 
mist  Robert  Evans  describes,  “as  large-scale  political 
theater,  with  all  the  rhetorical  threats  and  flourishes 
that  political  clashes  require.”  Conflicts  over  gov¬ 
ernment’s  right  to  prohibit  physicians  from  billing 
patients  led  physicians  to  strike  in  Ontario,  and  physi¬ 
cians  have  used  the  courts  to  challenge  provincial  re¬ 
strictions  on  physician  location. 

Although  costs  increase  more  slowly  in  Canada 
than  in  the  U.S.,  Canadians  themselves  have  not  been 
satisfied  with  the  growth  in  their  expenditure  levels. 
Health  expenditure  increases  have  stayed  more  in  line 
with  general  inflation  rates  than  in  the  United  States, 
but  Canada’a  care  costs  have  increased  at  significant 
annual  rates. 

Efforts  to  tighten  cost  control  have  taken  various 
forms.  In  1977,  the  federal-provincial  financing  for¬ 
mula  was  changed.  Instead  of  splitting  costs  50-50, 
whatever  their  level,  the  new  law  fixed  the  annual 
rate  of  increase  to  parallel  the  rate  of  growth  in  the 
GNP.  As  a  result,  the  provincial  share  of  costs  has  in¬ 
creased — in  Quebec,  reportedly,  to  61  percent. 

At  the  provincial  level,  efforts  to  achieve  greater 
cost  control  have  focused  on  utilization  of  physician 


services.  Constraints  on  fees  were  accompanied  in 
Canada  by  an  increase  in  the  volume  of  services  phy¬ 
sicians  provided,  thereby  undermining  government’s 
capacity  to  control  costs.  Outside  Quebec,  that  pat¬ 
tern  has  persisted  over  time. 

Quebec  responded  by  refining  its  fee  schedule  and 
by  capping  GP  incomes  and  total  expenditures  on 
specialists’  services:  if  expenditure  increases  exceed 
predetermined  levels,  subsequent  fee  increases 
are  reduced. 

Although  other  provinces  may  ultimately  follow 
Quebec’s  lead,  they  have  been  less  aggressive  in  con¬ 
trolling  total  expenditures  and  less  successful  in  con¬ 
taining  costs.  Some  Canadian  provinces  have  begun  to 
look  beyond  fee  limits  to  controls  on  physician  supply 
as  a  means  to  limit  spending. 

Even  proponents  of  the  Canadian  system  do  not 
argue  that  cost  containment  is  easy  or  without  con¬ 
flict.  Rather,  they  argue  that  conflict  can  be  managed 
and  that  policy  refinement  and  political  will  can  keep 
spending  in  bounds. 


What  are  the  Lessons  From  the  Canadian 
Experience? 

•  Universal  coverage  (indeed,  care  that  is  free  to 
consumers)  can  be  compatible  with  lower  rates  of 
spending  increase  than  the  U.S.  now  incurs. 

•  Slower  expenditure  growth  depends  on  policy 
tools  and  political  willingness  to  limit  amounts  paid  to 
providers. 

•  Slower  spending  growth  does  not  guarantee 
greater  efficiency  or  necessarily  threaten  quality 
or  access.  Consequences  should  be  measured,  not 
assumed. 


218 


Financing  Long-Term  Care  in  Canada  * 


Introduction 

Despite  similarities  between  Canada  and  the  United 
States  in  their  geography,  demographics  and  cultural 
heritage,  Canada  has  chosen  a  different  approach  to 
conceptualizing  the  role  of  government  in  financing 
and  delivering  long-term  care.  However,  it  is  impor¬ 
tant  to  state  upfront  that  there  is  no  one  Canadian 
long-term  care  system.  Each  of  the  10  provinces  is  re¬ 
sponsible  for  administering  its  own  long-term  care 
programs.  There  is,  therefore,  wide  variation  in  the 
availability  of  and  access  to  services,  particularly 
home  and  community-based  care.  Given  this  impor¬ 
tant  caveat,  the  Canadian  long-term  care  experience 
may  provide  some  guidance  for  reform  of  long-term 
care  policy  in  the  United  States. 


Federal  Support  for  Long-Term  Care 

The  financing  of  long-term  care  is  best  understood 
within  the  context  of  Canada’s  universal  health  in¬ 
surance  system  which  has  been  in  place  for  hos¬ 
pitals  since  1958  and  for  medical  care  since  1968.  As  a 
response  to  provincial  complaints  that  the  health  in¬ 
surance  program  created  incentives  for  high-cost  hos¬ 
pital-based  care,  the  1977  Established  Programs 
Financing  Act  provided  to  each  province  a  per  capita 
extended  care  block  grant.  The  amount  (set  at  20  Can 
$  per  capita  in  1977,  and  at  49.15  Can  $  in  1988-99) 
has  an  automatic  escalator  for  inflation.  The  purpose 
of  the  grant  was  to  permit  provinces  the  flexibility  to 
introduce  less  expensive  and  perhaps  more  desirable 
forms  of  care  than  hospital  care,  such  as  nursing 
home  care,  community-based  care,  and  home  care.  In 
contrast  to  the  health  insurance  program,  no  stipula¬ 
tions  for  comprehensiveness  and  universality  were  at¬ 
tached  to  the  extended  care  grants. 

The  Canadian  federal  government  provides  addi¬ 
tional  subsidies  (matched  50-50  with  the  provinces) 
for  care  to  the  poor. 

*  Briefing  paper  prepared  by  Robyn  I.  Stone  for  July  27,  1989,  working 
meeting. 


Institutional  Care 

With  the  assistance  of  the  annual  federal  block 
grant,  all  but  three  of  the  Eastern-seaboard  maritime 
provinces  provide  universal  entitlement  to  nursing 
home  care.  Eligibility  is  based  on  functional  disability. 
No  income  or  assets  tests  are  applied,  although  the 
consumers  do  pay  part  of  the  bill.  All  nursing  home 
residents  are  charged  a  monthly  co-payment  for  room 
and  board  which  equals  the  maximum  federal 
monthly  income  security  benefit  less  a  comfort  allow¬ 
ance  (about  $90  per  month  in  1984).  This  copayment 
is  indexed  to  rise  with  the  cost  of  living  and  publicly 
financed  pensions. 

The  three  provinces  without  universal  nursing 
home  coverage  contribute  to  the  financing  of  nursing 
home  care  through  a  residual  program  for  people 
who  have  “spent  down”  to  poverty  (similar  to  Medi¬ 
caid  reimbursement  for  institutional  care  in  the  United 
States). 


Home  and  Community-Based  Care 

There  is  much  variation  among  the  provinces 
in  the  provision  of  home  and  community-based  care. 
Manitoba,  which  has  a  province-wide,  universal,  no- 
cost-to-consumer  home  and  community-based  care 
program,  has  the  oldest  and  most  fully-developed 
system  in  Canada.  This  program,  administered  by  the 
Office  of  Continuing  Care,  has  a  single  point  of  entry 
for  both  institutional  and  community-based  and  home 
care.  A  standardized  assessment  tool  is  used  to  deter¬ 
mine  eligibility.  Both  level  of  functional  disability  (re¬ 
gardless  of  age)  and  availability  of  informal  supports 
are  considered  in  determining  the  services  govern¬ 
ment  will  provide.  Although  the  need  for  institutional 
care  is  recognized,  the  goal  of  the  Manitoba  long¬ 
term  care  program  is  to  keep  disabled  persons  in  the 
community  as  long  as  possible  by  providing  a  range 
of  personal  care  and  other  nonmedical  services. 

British  Columbia’s  long-term  care  program  is  pat¬ 
terned  after  the  Manitoba  model.  The  program  serves 


219 


all  adult  residents,  although  children  do  receive  home 
nursing  care.  Homemaker  services  and  handyman 
services  (the  primary  home  care  services  offered  by 
British  Columbia’s  Long-Term  Care  Program)  are  not 
free;  a  sliding  scale  based  on  income  is  used.  Never¬ 
theless,  no  one  is  impoverished  in  order  to  be  eligible 
for  services.  Case  managers  are  responsible  for  assess¬ 
ing  and  authorizing  levels  of  care  in  facilities  as  well 
as  in  the  community. 

In  contrast,  much  of  the  publicly  financed  home 
care  in  Ontario,  the  most  populous  province,  is  medi¬ 
cally  oriented  (analogous  to  the  home  health  benefit 
under  Medicare  in  the  United  States).  Chronic  home 
care  services  (e.g.,  personal  care,  homemaker  chore) 
are  available  through  the  Ministry  of  Community 
and  Social  Services,  but  they  are  means-tested  and 
targeted  to  the  poor.  There  is  no  consistent  case 
management. 

At  the  opposite  end  of  the  spectrum  are  the  rel¬ 
atively  poor  maritime  provinces.  They  are  piecing 
together  home  care  programs  based  on  existing  re¬ 
sources,  with  Nova  Scotia  in  the  lead  by  developing  a 
coordinated  single-entry  system  through  its  home¬ 
maker  agencies.  Nova  Scotia  and  New  Brunswick  are, 
in  fact,  attempting  to  develop  their  home  care  pro¬ 
grams  before  instituting  universal  nursing  home  cov¬ 
erage.  Therefore,  it  will  be  interesting  to  see  whether 
subsidized  home  care  will  make  nursing  home  care 
(which  requires  “spend-down”)  less  attractive  to  dis¬ 
abled  persons  and  their  families. 


Strengths  and  Weaknesses  of  Canada’s 
Program 

•  Strengths — All  Canadians,  with  the  exception  of 
residents  of  three  maritime  provinces,  are  entitled 


to  nursing  home  care.  Although  there  is  a  stand¬ 
ard  co-payment  for  room  and  board,  no  one  is 
pauperized  in  order  to  have  access  to  institutional 
long-term  care. 

•  In  some  provinces,  publicly  financed,  non- 
medically-oriented  home  and  community-based 
care  is  available  free  of  charge  (e.g.,  Manitoba) 
or  on  a  sliding  scale  basis  (e.g.,  British  Columbia). 
These  programs  tend  to  have  a  single  point  of 
entry  and  a  case  management  system  which  de¬ 
termines  eligibility  and  service  packages  based  on 
functional  need  and  the  availability  of  informal 
care  supports. 

•  There  appears  to  be  no  runaway  utilization  of 
home  and  community-based  care  programs  in 
provinces  that  fund  these  services  because  of  case 
management  and  the  commitment  to  operate 
within  available  funds. 

•  Weaknesses — Home  and  community-based  long¬ 
term  care  services  are  not  available  in  all  prov¬ 
inces.  Even  among  provinces  that  finance  care, 
there  are  differences  in  the  types  and  amount  of 
services  provided.  Access  to  community-based 
and  home  care,  therefore,  is  inequitable  across 
provinces. 

•  Many  provinces  attempt  to  control  nursing  home 
costs  by  limiting  bed  supply.  Expenditure  control 
that  relies  on  constraining  bed  supply  does  not, 
however,  guarantee  efficient  use  of  services.  Use 
of  hospitals  for  long-term  care  patients  is  sugges¬ 
tive  of  this  inefficiency. 

•  Just  as  in  the  United  States,  Canada  does  not  ef¬ 
fectively  coordinate  health  care  services  with 
nonmedical  long-term  care  services.  Further¬ 
more,  even  though  several  provinces  have  devel¬ 
oped  home  and  community-based  care  programs, 
because  Canada’s  health  insurance  program 
covers  medically-oriented  care  in  institutions  or 
at  home,  these  services  receive  greater  emphasis. 


220 


Comparing  Health  Care  Financing  Across  Nations:  A  Summary  * 


Coverage 

•  Outside  of  the  United  States,  government  assur¬ 
ance  of  universal  health  care  coverage  is  the 
norm  in  industrialized  nations. 

•  Universal  coverage  does  not  imply  a  centralized, 
government-run  system.  Rather  it  is  achieved 
through  a  variety  of  mechanisms,  ranging  from 
totally  publicly  financed  and  owned  systems  (as 
in  the  United  Kingdom)  to  systems  with  multiple 
insurance  funds  (as  in  Germany  and  France). 


Financing 

•  Public  spending  as  a  share  of  total  health  spend¬ 
ing  averaged  close  to  80  percent  for  industrialized  na¬ 
tions  in  1986;  in  the  United  States,  the  proportion  was 
41  percent. 

•  Most  countries  employ  a  variety  of  public  financ¬ 
ing  sources  with  some  relying  more  heavily  on  gen¬ 
eral  taxes,  others  on  payroll  taxes,  and  some  on 
employee  and/or  employer  premiums. 

•  All  nations  experienced  substantial  growth  in 
health  spending  as  a  share  of  total  output  between 
1960  and  1975,  increasing,  on  average,  from  4.0  per¬ 
cent  of  GNP  to  6.0  percent. 

•  Between  1975  and  1985,  growth  in  health  spend¬ 
ing  as  a  share  of  output  slowed  substantially  (6.9  per¬ 
cent  of  GNP  to  7.3  percent,  on  average). 

•  Compared  to  other  countries,  the  U.S.: 

— devotes  the  largest  share  of  production  output  to 
health  (11.1  percent  in  the  U.S.;  7.2  percent  on 
average  for  OECD  nations,  1986) 

— derives  the  smallest  share  of  spending  from 
public  sources  (41  percent  in  the  U.S.;  77  percent 
for  all  OECD  nations,  in  1986) 


•  Paper  prepared  by  Judith  Feder  for  July  27.  1989,  working  meeting. 


— spends  the  most  on  health  care,  per  person 
($1,926  in  the  U.S.;  $958,  on  average,  for  all 
OECD  nations,  in  1986). 


Controlling  Costs 

•  Like  the  U.S.,  most  industrialized  nations  today 
have  come  to  question  the  resources  they  are  devot¬ 
ing  to  health  care  and  want  to  spend  less. 

•  Unlike  the  U.S.,  most  industrialized  nations — 
even  those  with  several  insurance  funds — had  de¬ 
veloped  (by  the  1980’s)  government  authority  over 
payment  rates  (and,  in  some  cases,  total  expenditures) 
to  providers. 

•  Willingness  to  use  government  authority  to  re¬ 
strict  expenditure  growth,  and  the  political  conflict 
control  entails,  varies  from  place  to  place  and  over 
time.  When  willing,  however,  governments  seem  able 
to  restrict  cost  growth. 

•  Annual  increases  in  health  prices  above  general 
prices  are  much  greater  in  the  U.S.  than  in  other 
countries  (3.4  percent  in  the  U.S.  versus  0.8  percent 
on  average  for  seven  major  OECD  nations,  1980— 
1986). 

•  By  contrast,  U.S.  annual  increases  in  use/inten¬ 
sity  of  service  per  person  are  relatively  low  (2.0  per¬ 
cent  in  the  U.S.  versus  2.5  percent  on  average  for 
seven  major  OECD  nations,  1980-1986). 


Quality  and  Efficiency 

•  Lower  expenditures  on  health  care  may  mean 
less  or  different  health  care — particularly,  in  terms  of 
ready  access  to  high  technology  services.  Lower  ex¬ 
penditures  also  mean  lower  payments  (and  incomes) 
to  providers  of  care. 

•  Expenditure  controls  have  been  instituted  primar¬ 
ily  to  limit  public  expenses.  Their  consequences  for 


221 


quality,  access,  and  efficiency  have  not  been  system¬ 
atically  evaluated. 

•  Higher  expenditures  on  health  care  do  not  guar¬ 
antee  better  health  outcomes.  While  the  U.S.  ranks 


highest  among  industrialized  nations  in  spending,  it 
ranks  near  the  bottom  with  respect  to  infant  mortality 
rates  and  only  ranks  in  the  middle  with  respect  to  life 
expectancy. 


222 


Comparing  Financing  and  Delivery  of  Long-Term  Care  Across  Nations:  A 

Summary  * 


Comparing  financing  and  delivery  of  long-term 
care  across  nations  is  complicated  by  differences  in 
the  way  care  is  defined — e.g.,  what  is  an  institution? 
What  is  medical  vs.  social  service?  It  is  further  com¬ 
plicated  by  the  lack  of  comprehensive,  accurate  data, 
particularly  for  care  provided  in  people’s  homes  or  in 
the  community.  Keeping  these  limitations  in  mind,  the 
following  observations  can  be  made  about  long-term 
care  in  industrialized  nations: 


Financing  Long-Term  Care 

•  In  long-term  care,  unlike  acute  health  care,  uni¬ 
versal  entitlement  without  regard  to  income  is  not  the 
norm  among  industrialized  nations.  In  about  half  the 
OECD  countries,  government  funding  for  institutional 
care  is  provided  on  a  welfare  basis  rather  than  on  an 
insured  entitlement  basis.  Government-funded  home 
care  is  even  more  likely  to  be  targeted  to  the  low- 
income  population.  Where  entitlements  exist,  the  ben¬ 
efits  are  limited.  Some  examples  of  these  programs 
are: 

•  All  Canadian  provinces  have  an  entitlement  pro¬ 
gram  for  nursing  home  care;  residents  are  re¬ 
quired  to  pay  the  room  and  board  portion  of  the 
costs  but  are  not  required  to  “spend  down”  their 
income  or  assets. 

•  In  France,  the  medical  and  nursing  costs  in  long¬ 
term  care  institutions  are  publicly  financed,  but 
room  and  board  are  the  responsibility  of  the  serv¬ 
ice  recipient.  Those  who  cannot  afford  the  room 
and  board  costs  must  apply  for  welfare  assistance 
and  “spend  down.” 

•  The  Netherlands  covers  long-term  care  under  a 
national  health  insurance  scheme,  but  care  is  lim¬ 
ited  to  medically  intensive  services  in  nursing 
homes  or  in  the  community.  Residents  must  pay 
for  their  own  care  in  less  medically  intensive 
homes  for  the  aged;  for  those  who  cannot  pay 
part  or  all  of  the  costs,  the  government  makes  up 
the  difference  through  general  revenues. 

*  Briefing  paper  prepared  by  Robyn  I.  Stone  for  July  27,  1989,  working 
meeting. 


•  In  the  United  Kingdom,  the  National  Health 
Service  covers  only  medically-oriented  long-term 
care.  Provision  of  the  bulk  of  long-term  care  is 
the  responsibility  of  local  social  service  agencies. 

•  Israel  has  recently  implemented  a  long-term  care 
insurance  program  which  provides  home  care 
benefits  (e.g.,  personal  care,  homemaker  chore, 
adult  day  care)  to  the  elderly  disabled.  The  em¬ 
phasis  is  on  in-kind  services.  However,  where 
services  are  unavailable  and  the  eligible  person  is 
being  cared  for  by  a  relative  living  with  the  bene¬ 
ficiary,  cash  benefits  are  provided  on  a  temporary 
basis. 

•  Some  industrialized  countries  in  Western  Europe 
(e.g.,  United  Kingdom,  Scandinavian  countries,  Aus¬ 
tralia)  provide  cash  grants  or  constant  attendance 
allowances  to  disabled  elderly  persons. 

•  At  least  three  European  countries  (United  King¬ 
dom,  Sweden,  and  Germany)  pay  relatives  to  provide 
care  to  disabled  persons. 


Management  and  Delivery  of  Services 

•  The  type  of  services  provided  varies  across  coun¬ 
tries.  European  countries  historically  developed  more 
nonmedical  institutions  (like  old  age  homes)  than  the 
U.S.,  Canada,  and  New  Zealand.  Within  Europe,  the 
Scandinavian  countries,  the  Netherlands,  and  the 
United  Kingdom  offer  a  wider  spectrum  of  service — 
home  and  community-based  as  well  as  institutional 
care — than  other  nations. 

•  The  provision  of  home  care  as  well  as  institu¬ 
tional  care  does  not  appear  to  reduce  the  use  of  insti¬ 
tutions.  Rather,  generous  public  financing  for  home 
care  is  associated  with  higher  use  of  institutional  care, 
suggesting  a  greater  willingness  to  spend  on  long-term 
care  across  the  board. 

•  In  most  European  nations,  home  and  community- 
based  services  are  administered  locally.  One  innova¬ 
tion  to  improve  coordination  is  the  neighborhood  or 
catchment  area  service  center.  This  center  functions 


223 


as  a  focal  point  for  arranging  and  delivering  services 
to  disabled  persons  in  the  community. 

•  Some  nations  (Denmark,  Sweden,  the  Nether¬ 
lands  and  the  United  Kingdom)  have  formal  mecha¬ 
nisms  to  control  admissions  to  institutions.  Many  also 
are  exploring  case  management  as  a  mechanism  for 
controlling  costs  and  ensuring  the  appropriate  mix  of 
home  and  community-based  services. 

•  A  shortage  of  nursing  home  capacity  is  a  major 
difficulty  in  several  European  countries.  Inadequate 


nursing  care  in  nonmedical  institutions  is  also  a  grow¬ 
ing  problem. 

•  Several  countries  (e.g.,  United  Kingdom,  Den¬ 
mark)  make  greater  use  of  acute  and  psychiatric  hos¬ 
pitals  for  long-term  care  of  the  elderly  than  does  the 
U.S. 

•  Lack  of  coordination  between  medical  and  per¬ 
sonal  and  support  services  is  a  problem  facing  all  in¬ 
dustrialized  nations  in  providing  long-term  care. 


224 


Canadians’  Use  of  the  American  Health  Care  System  * 


At  our  last  Commission  breakfast,  you  expressed  an 
interest  in  learning  if  U.S.  hospitals  serve  as  a  “safety- 
valve”  for  Canadians  who  have  to  wait  for  or  can  not 
get  certain  services.  In  order  to  assess  the  problem, 
the  staff  questioned  knowledgeable  individuals  associ¬ 
ated  with  a  number  of  major  medical  institutions  in 
the  northern  United  States. 

It  was  difficult  to  obtain  precise  numbers  and  to 
know  how  to  interpret  the  numbers  we  got.  Tourists 
with  emergencies  were  indistinguishable  from  those 
patients  who  were  referred  to  the  United  States.  It 
was  not  possible  to  systemically  identify  referral  pat¬ 
terns  or  types  of  treatment  sought.  We  supplemented 
our  data  by  asking  American  health  officials  for  per¬ 
ceptions  of  Canadian  usage  of  their  institutions.  Some 
of  the  respondents’  comments  are  quoted  below. 

A  better  study  would  follow  Canadian  patients  to 
examine  usage  patterns  and  their  reasons  for  choosing 
American  treatment  over  Canadian  care,  but  it  was 
beyond  our  capacity  to  do  so  in  this  short  time 
period. 


Summary  of  Findings 

Of  ten  institutions  surveyed,  two  gave  evidence 
that  they  served  a  significant  number  of  Canadians  for 
certain  specific  procedures.  The  remaining  American 
hospitals  contacted  treated  a  few  Canadian  patients 
for  a  variety  of  services  and  specialty  care.  These  re¬ 
sponses  suggest  that  small  numbers  of  Canadians  may 
be  using  American  hospitals  for  special  services  like 
coronary  care  and  lithotripsy.  These  patients  usually 
pay  out-of-pocket  for  these  services.  However,  there 
is  no  evidence  that  substantial  numbers  of  Canadians 
are  seeking  care  at  American  medical  centers. 

Institutions  Serving  Significant  Numbers  of 
Canadians — 

•  Buffalo  General  Hospital,  Buffalo,  AT— Overall,  ap¬ 
proximately  three  percent  of  Buffalo  General  s  pa¬ 
tients  are  Canadian.  However,  fifty  of  the  hundred 
patients  each  month  who  receive  lithotripsy  to  de¬ 

•  Memorandum  to  Congressman  Bill  Gradison  from  Judith  Feder  and 
Pushkal  Garg,  August  18,  1989. 


stroy  kidney  stones  are  Canadians.  This  high  use  re¬ 
sults  from  a  formal  arrangement  with  the  province 
of  Ontario. 

Since  there  is  a  wait  for  Ontario’s  one 
lithotripter,  the  province  will  reimburse  Buffalo 
General  approximately  $3,000  for  a  single-stone 
procedure  (hospital’s  charge  is  the  $4,000).  This 
$3,000  level  of  reimbursement  is  comparable  to  that 
which  the  hospital  receives  from  insurers  like  Blue 
Cross,  who  use  a  DRG-based  fee  schedule,  and  is 
higher  than  NY  State’s  compensation  on  behalf  of 
Medicaid  patients.  The  Ontario  Ministry  of  Health 
has  plans  to  purchase  two  more  lithotripters,  but 
has  not  yet  done  so.  Officials  stated  that  the  acquisi¬ 
tion  process  is  slow  and  that  they  have  decided  to 
wait  for  the  next  generation  of  instruments. 

•  University  of  Washington  Medical  Center,  Seattle, 
WA — Among  the  72,000  non-emergency  patients 
seen  over  the  last  five  years,  59  have  been  Canadi¬ 
ans.  The  dominant  services  for  these  patients  are 
cancer  treatment,  neurosurgery  for  brain  injuries 
and  rehabilitation  services.  “Based  on  volume  alone, 
this  doesn’t  seem  to  be  a  large  problem.”  However, 
125  of  the  250  in  vitro  fertilizations  performed  each 
year  are  done  for  Canadians.  Patients  pay  out-of- 
pocket  for  this  $5,000  procedure. 

Institutions  With  Very  Little  Use  by  Canadians — 

•  Cleveland  Clinic,  Cleveland,  OH — The  clinic  serves 
125,000  inpatients  per  year.  In  1988,  143  Canadians 
made  402  non-emergency  visits  to  the  clinic.  Al¬ 
though  this  number  is  low,  it  is  higher  than  the  105 
Canadians  who  sought  treatment  in  1986  and  the 
127  who  came  in  1987.  The  patients  came  for  a  va¬ 
riety  of  services,  including  cardiovascular,  orthope¬ 
dic,  gastrointestinal  and  neurosensory  treatment. 
“Some  wealthy  Canadians  who  get  tired  of  waiting 
may  seek  treatment  in  the  United  States.” 

•  Mayo  Clinic,  Rochester,  MS — Canadian  usage  of  the 
Clinic  amounted  to  $7,775,000  ($5,375,000  for  out¬ 
patient  and  professional  services  and  $2,400,000  for 
hospital  services),  which  is  approximately  one  per¬ 
cent  of  gross  income.  This  utilization  involved  all 
services,  across-the-board.  Canadians  tended  to  be 
well-off,  as  they  paid  out-of-pocket.  “Thirty  years 
ago,  20  percent  of  income  came  from  Canadians,  as 
opposed  to  only  one  percent  now.  This  decline  is 


225 


probably  due  to  the  change  of  payment  plans  in 
Canada.  Canadian  usage  of  our  services  is  not  that 
big  a  problem.” 

•  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  MA — The 
admissions  staff  estimates  that  less  than  twenty  pa¬ 
tients  per  year  are  Canadian  citizens.  “It  is  our 
impression  that  the  number  is  not  significant.” 

•  University  of  Rochester  Medical  Center,  Rochester, 
NY — None  of  the  more  than  28,000  discharges  in 
1988  were  from  Canada.  “This  may  change  with 
the  addition  of  liver  and  bone  marrow  transplant 
services  to  the  hospital.” 

•  Detroit  Medical  Center,  Detroit,  MI — “We  see  a  small 
number  of  Canadian  patients.  They  usually  pay  out- 
of-pocket  and  are  seeking  some  sort  of  surgical  pro¬ 
cedure.  Nevertheless,  they  are  not  coming  over  in 
waves.” 

•  Henry  Ford  Hospital,  Detroit,  MI — Of  31,000  dis¬ 
charges  per  year,  between  80  and  90  are  Canadians. 
However,  this  includes  patients  seeking  emergency/ 
trauma  care,  which  may  be  significant  due  to  De¬ 
troit’s  proximity  to  the  border.  Although  nearly  all 
services  and  procedures  were  represented,  many  of 
the  patients  sought  cardiovascular  or  lithotripsy 
care.  “The  numbers  are  not  large,  but  the  longer 
lines  and  fewer  services  offered  in  Canada  are  a 
factor  in  Canadian  patients  choosing  to  use  us.” 

•  Johns  Hopkins  Medical  Center,  Baltimore,  MD — 
During  fiscal  year  1989,  28  of  the  35,500  patients 
were  Canadians.  Seven  of  these  patients  were  en¬ 
rolled  in  a  specific  research  program  under  one 
physician,  and  five  had  consulted  a  particular  pedi¬ 
atric  urologist,  probably  for  treatment  of  genetic 
abnormalities.  The  remaining  16  patients  were  scat¬ 
tered  throughout  the  hospital.  “There  is  no  stam¬ 
pede  coming  in  from  Canada.” 

•  Memorial  Sloan  Kettering  Cancer  Center,  New  York, 
NY — From  1986-1988  twelve  patients  were  Cana¬ 
dian.  There  was  no  pattern  by  province  or  age. 
Five  of  the  twelve  patients  sought  treatment  for 


bladder  tumors.  Some  stays  were  paid  for  directly 
by  patients.  Others  were  paid  by  commercial  insur¬ 
ance  or,  in  one  case,  by  Blue  Cross. 

Additional  Comments — Don  Potter,  M.D.,  President 
of  the  Southeast  Michigan  Hospital  Council,  provided 
some  interesting  anecdotal  information  about  Canadi¬ 
ans’  preferences  in  obtaining  health  care.  Due  to  the 
Free  Trade  Agreement  with  Canada,  a  large  number 
of  Canadian  nurses  are  working  in  Southeast  Michi¬ 
gan  hospitals.  Most  of  them  choose  to  receive  their 
health  care  through  the  Canadian  system,  for  which 
American  employers  pay  premiums  to  the  home  prov¬ 
ince.  However,  these  nurses  are  also  offered  Blue 
Cross  and  HMO  plans  which  they  frequently  switch 
to  when  they  anticipate  the  need  for  extensive  or 
high-technology  medical  attention. 

Wally  Maher,  former  Director  of  employee  benefits 
for  Chrysler  Corporation,  mentioned  that  10,000 
Chrysler  employees  are  Canadians  working  at  a  plant 
in  Windsor,  Ontario,  just  across  the  river  from  De¬ 
troit.  “Despite  numerous  collective  bargaining  agree¬ 
ments,  these  workers  have  never  asked  for  access  to 
Detroit’s  excellent  medical  services,”  he  said.  He 
thought  that  these  Canadian  workers  would  have 
made  an  attempt  to  use  American  medical  facilities, 
had  it  been  important  to  them. 

David  Cow,  M.D.,  Manager  of  Claims  Policy  for 
the  Ontario  Ministry  of  Health,  felt  that  the  access 
problems  in  Canada  have  been  exaggerated.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  between  1986  and  1988,  4000  coronary  by¬ 
passes  were  performed  in  Ontario.  Of  202  instances  in 
which  Canadians  were  treated  in  the  U.S.,  87.5  per¬ 
cent  were  emergency  cases.  Only  25  patients  chose  to 
be  treated  in  the  United  States  rather  than  use  the  Ca¬ 
nadian  health  care  system.  “The  cardiovascular  prob¬ 
lems  mentioned  in  the  press  are  a  lot  of  hype.  Some 
cities  want  improved  facilities  and  publicize  these 
cases  as  proof  of  a  need  for  new  equipment.” 


226 


COMPARISON  OF  SELECTED  COMPREHENSIVE  HEALTH  PLANS  * 


Who’s  Covered  and  How 


Private  Insurance 
Provisions 


Small  Business  Subsidy 


Effect  on  Medicaid 


Basic  Health  Benefits  For  All  A  Consumer-Choice  Health  Plan 

(Kennedy /Waxman)  (S.768/  National  Leadership  Commission  for  the  1 990's  Enthoven  & 

H.R.1845)  Kronick 


Employer  mandate  plus 
Medicaid  (or  public 
program) 

Expansion  and  Buy-In 


Employers  are  required 
to  cover  all  employees 
working  17.5+  hrs/wk 
and  consultants  and 
contractors 

Employees  working  25  + 
hrs/wk  must  accept 
coverage 

Others  are  eligible  for  or 
may  buy-in  to  Medicaid 

State  must  subsidize 
private  coverage  for 
employed  Medicaid 
eligibles  and  may  do 
so  for  others 


Community  rating  by 
“regional  insurers”  for 
small  businesses  (25 
employees  or  less) 

No  exclusion  for 
preexisting  conditions 
Eliminates  state 
mandated  benefits 
Plus  companion 
legislation  below 

Subsidies  for  those  small 
businesses  whose 
compliance  costs  are 
in  excess  of  5%  of 
gross  revenues 
Very  small  and  new 
businesses  have  a 
phase-in 

Eligibility  expanded  as 
described  below  plus 
improved  benefits  and 
reimbursement 


Universal  Coverage 
through  employers  who 
"pay  or  play”  and  a 
residual  public  program 
(UNAC) 

Everyone  is  required  to 
have  insurance 
through  employer  or 
self  or  public  program 
(UNAC) 

Employers  are  required 
to  cover  all  FT 
employees  (35+  hrs/ 
wk)  or  pay  tax  to 
UNAC 

All  employers  also  pay 
tax  for  PT  workers  and 
to  finance  unemployed 
in  UNAC 

Individuals  over  150%  of 
poverty  must  pay  tax 
to  participate  in  UNAC 

Employers  for  whom  tax 
is  less  than  insurance 
costs  may  find  UNAC 
more  attractive  than 
private  insurance 


Small  Businesses  (5 
employees  or  less)  and 
new  businesses  (under 
3  years  old)  pay  lower 
fees 


Folded  into  UNAC 


Universal  coverage 
through  employer 
mandate  plus  public 
sponsored  private 
insurance  plus 
Medicaid 

Employer  required  to 
cover  FT  employees 
(25+  hrs/wk)  and  to 
cover  or  pay  tax  to 
“public  sponsor”  for 
PT  workers 

Everyone  not  covered  by 
current  public 
programs  or  employer 
may  buy  subsidized 
insurance  through 
state  level  public 
sponsor 


Employers  can  buy 
insurance  directly  or 
through  Public  Sponsor 
for  full  costs 
No  exclusion  of 
preexisting  conditions 
Plus  companion 
legislation  below 


Businesses  of  25 
employees  or  fewer 
pay  a  maximum  8%  of 
payroll  for  insurance 
premiums 


Maintained 


Physicians  for  a  National  Health 
Program  Himmelstein, 
Woolhandler,  et  al. 


Universal  coverage  under 
a  public  insurance 
program. 


Everyone  is  automatically 
covered  in  one 
comprehensive  public 
program 

Based  on  Canadian 
system 


No  role  for  private 
insurers 


N/A 


Folded  into  insurance 
program 


227 


COMPARISON  OF  SELECTED  COMPREHENSIVE  HEALTH  PLANS  *— Continued 


Subsidy  for  Premiums  for 
Low  Income  People 


Benefits 


Deductible 


Coinsurance 


Cap  on  Out-of-Pocket 
Expenditures 


Basic  Health  Benefits  For  All  A  Consumer-Choice  Health  Plan 

(Kennedy/Waxman)  (S.768/  National  Leadership  Commission  for  the  1 990’s  Enthoven  & 
H.R.1845)  Kronick 


Under  125%  of  minimum 
wage,  no  premium  for 
employer  plan 
For  unemployed  up  to 
100%  poverty  eligible 
for  Medicaid 
For  employed  up  to 
185%  poverty  states 
pays  premiums 
Premium  to  buy-in  to 
Medicaid  for 
unemployed 
—3%  of  income,  if 
between  1 00  and 
185%  of  poverty 
—4%  of  income,  if 
between  1 85  and 
250%  of  poverty 
—5%  of  income,  if 
above  250%  of 
poverty 

Hospital  care 
Physician  care 
Diagnostic  testing 
Prenatal  and  well-baby 
Limited  mental  health 
EPSDT  for  Medicaid 
children 


Above  100%  of  poverty: 
$250/person 
$500/family  or 
actuarial  equivalent 

Below  100%:  Medicaid 
pays 

Above  100%  of  poverty: 

50%  outpatient 
psychiatric 

20%  all  services  but 
prenatal  and  well  baby 
or  actuarial  equivalent 

Below  100%:  Medicaid 
pays 

Above  100%  poverty: 

$3, 000/family  or  actuarial 
equivalent 

Below  100%  poverty: 
Medicaid  pays 


Under  150%  of  poverty 
Current  Medicaid 
participants  would 
have  limited  cost 
sharing 


To  be  developed  by 
political  process 

Illustrative  plans  for  cost 
estimates: 

Basic: 

Inpatient,  outpatient, 
labor,  drugs,  limited 
mental  health 

Low: 

14  days  inpatient, 
drugs,  outpatient, 
lab,  well  baby 


Illustrative  plan: 

Basic:  $1 00/person 
Low:  $50/person 
$1 50/family 


Illustrative  plan: 

Basic:  20% 

Low:  none  for  inpatient 


Illustrative  plan: 

Basic:  $1,000/ 
individual;  $3,000/ 
family 

Low:  No  limit 


Individuals  below  100% 
of  poverty  pay  no 
premium;  sliding  scale 
up  to  150%  of  poverty; 
above  150%  poverty 
individual  pays 
difference  between 
subsidy  and  cost  of 
plan  (expected  to  be 
on  average  20% 
premium) 


Basic  benefits  in  HMO 
Act:  Physician, 
inpatient  and 
outpatient  hospital 
services;  medically 
necessary  emergency 
services;  crisis 
intervention  mental 
health  services; 
alcohol  and  drug 
medical  and  referral 
services;  lab  and 
radiologic  services; 
home  health  and 
preventive  services 

Up  to  $250/individual 
(except  possibly  in 
HMO’s) 


Up  to  20% 


Up  to  1 00%  of  annual 
premium 


Physicians  for  a  National  Health 
Program  Himmelstein, 
Woolhandler,  et  al. 


No  premiums  for  anyone 


All  medically  necessary 
care 

Acute  care 
Rehabilitative  care 
Long-term  care 
Home  health  care 
Mental  health  care 
Dental  care 

Occupational  health  care 
Prescription  drugs  and 
medical  supplies 
Preventive  health  care 


None 


None 


N/A 


228 


COMPARISON  OF  SELECTED  COMPREHENSIVE  HEALTH  PLANS  *— Continued 


Cost  Containment 
Provisions 


Health  Care  Quality  and 
Value 


Base  Health  Benefits  For  All 
(Kennedy/Waxman)  (S.768/ 
H.R.1845) 


Economics  of  scale  and 
community  rating  said 
to  reduce  insurance 
costs  for  small 
businesses 
Managed  care  option 


Clinical  practice 
guidelines  developed 
PRO  review 


National  Leadership  Commission 


A  Consumer-Choice  Health  Plan 
for  the  1990's  Enthoven  & 
Krontck 


Physicians  for  a  National  Health 
Program  Himmelstein, 
Woolhandler,  et  al. 


Each  state  UNAC  gets  a 
prospective  budget 
“Innovative  purchasing” 
by  states 

UNAC  sets  rates  for 
providers  which  other 
payers  may  use 
Malpractice  reforms 
Practice  guidelines 
Managed  Care 
Individuals  incentives 
through  more 
information  and  cost 
sharing 


Develop  health  outcome 
data  base 
Clinical  guidelines 
Technology  assessment 


“Managed  competition” 
to  create  cost- 
conscious  choice  of 
“managed  care”  plan, 
to  encourage  growth  of 
cost-effective  systems 
of  care 

Cap  on  tax  exclusion  for 
premiums  fixed-dollar 
employer  contribution 
toward  insurance 
premiums,  and  choice 
of  plans  to  encourage 
cost-conscious  choice 
of  plans  by  consumers 
Surveillance  and  active 
management  by 
employers  and  public 
sponsors,  plus  risk- 
adjusted  premiums  to 
focus  competition  on 
efficiency,  not  risks 

“Health  outcome”  data 
base  created  to 
encourage  “wise 
choices”  by  companies 
and  consumers 
Technology  assessment 


Reduced  administration 
costs — 8.2%  cost 
savings 

National  health  costs 
capped  at  percent  of 
GNP 

Resource  allocation 
through  planning 

Global  budgeting  for 
institutional  providers 

Individual  providers  opt 
for  salary  or  negotiated 
fees 

Capitation  option 


Review  boards 
Technology  assessment 
Regional  planning 


COSTS 


Employer  Obligations 


Pays  100%  premium  for 
those  under  125% 
minimum  wage 
Pays  80%  premium  for 
25+  hr/wk  employees 
(and  proportional 
contribution  for  25- 
17.5  hr/wk  workers) 
Total  costs  estimated  at 
$33b 

Net  cost  after  offsets  is 
$18b 


75%  of  premium  for  FT 
workers  or  for  each 
worker  not  covered  in 
health  plan:  on  wages 
up  to  S45.000, 
approximately  9% 
Every  employer  pays 
approximately  .6%  of 
payroll  to  finance 
unemployed  through 
UNAC 

Total  cost  not  estimated 


For  FT  employees  80% 
of  premium  of  average 
plan  plus  for  each 
worker  not  covered  in 
health  plans,  pays  8% 
of  payroll  up  to 
$22,500 

Total  cost  not  estimated 


During  a  transition 
period: 

No  new  expenditures 
envisioned 

Tax  on  employers 
equal  to  previous 
year’s  statewide 
total  for 
employer’s 
spending  for 
health  costs  go  to 
plan 

Total  cost  equal  to 
current 
expenditures 


229 


COMPARISON  OF  SELECTED  COMPREHENSIVE  HEALTH  PLANS  *— Continued 


Basic  Health  Benefits  For  All  A  Consumer-Choice  Health  Plan  Physicians  for  a  National  Health 

(Kennedy/Waxman)  (S.768/  National  Leadership  Commission  for  the  1990's  Enthoven  &  Program  Himmelstein, 

H.R.1845)  Kronick  Woolhandler,  et  al. 


Individual  Obligations 


Federal  Government 
Obligations 


Companion  Legislation 


Employees  pay  20%  of 
premium  and  all  other 
cost  sharing  except  as 
subsidized 

Medicaid  buy-in  costs  as 
stated 

Total  costs  not  estimated 


Current  programs  plus 
cost  associated  with 
Medicaid  expansion 
and  mandate 
Total  cost  not  estimated 


Full  tax  deductibility  for 
self-employed 
premiums 

Simplify  Section  89  rules 
and  waivers  for  firms 
offering  BHB  plan 


Pay  up  to  25%  of  health 
premiums 

To  purchase  UN  AC,  if 
otherwise  uncovered, 
pay  approximately  2% 
of  adjusted  gross 
income  (AGI)  up  to  a 
ceiling 

Every  employee  (over 
150%  poverty)  pays 
approximately  .6%  of 
AGI  to  finance 
unemployed  through 
UNAC 

All  pay  other  cost  sharing 

Total  cost  not  estimated 

All  current  Medicaid 
dollars  go  to  UNAC 
plus  additional  lost  tax 
revenues  of  $12.9b 


Malpractice  reform 


Pay  up  to  20%  of 
premium:  if  company 
contribution  is  greater 
than  cap  80%,  excess 
is  taxable;  if  not  in 
employer  plan,  pays 
8%  of  family  income 
up  to  a  ceiling 
All  pay  other  cost  sharing 
(if  there  is  any) 


Cost  estimates:  Net 
increase  of 
expenditures  of  $.3b 


Repeals  state  mandates; 
section  89  COBRA; 
Eliminate  health  care 
benefits  from  cafeteria 
plans 


During  a  transition 
period: 

No  new  expenditures 
envisioned 
Tax  on  individuals 
equal  to  amount 
now  spent  for 
premiums  and  out- 
of-pocket  costs 
goes  to  plan 
Total  cost  equal  to 
current  expenditures 


During  a  transition 
period: 

No  new  expenditures 
envisioned 
All  current  state  and 
federal  health 
expenditures  go  to 
plan 

Total  cost  equal  to 
current  expenditures 

Not  addressed 


*  Briefing  paper  prepared  for  Commissioners  by  Judith  G.  Waxman,  September  28,  1989. 


230 


An  Overview  of  Issues  in  Estimating  the  Market  Potential  for  Private 

Long-Term  Care  Insurance  * 


Estimating  the  impact  and  the  costs  of  public  policy 
options  always  entails  making  many  assumptions.  This 
is  true  for  both  access  to  health  care  and  long-term 
care.  However,  because  options  for  altering  the  fi¬ 
nancing  of  long-term  care  are  more  sensitive  to  what 
happens  over  many  years,  projecting  the  future  is  a 
critical  issue  for  long-term  care. 

The  purpose  of  this  paper  is  to  discuss  the  relative 
merits  of  developing  projection  models,  the  impor¬ 
tance  of  some  of  the  key  assumptions  that  must  be 
made,  the  particular  problem  posed  by  estimating 
future  demand  for  long-term  care  insurance,  and  a 
very  brief  overview  of  two  alternative  long-term  care 
public  policy  models.  This  paper  is  not  intended  as  an 
evaluation  of  the  potential  for  private  insurance. 

Public  policy  models  are  bound  to  be  controversial. 
Too  often  results  that  do  not  conform  to  expectations 
lead  to  rejection  of  the  model  while  results  that  do 
are  discussed  without  caveat.  Neither  perspective  is 
constructive.  Certainly  no  computer  generated  model 
can  know  what  the  future  holds,  while  rejection  of 
the  model  leaves  us  with  few  alternatives  to  assist 
public  policy  decisions.  Our  understanding  of  the  limi¬ 
tations  of  a  model  will  make  it  easier  to  understand 
the  public  policy  trade-offs  and  options.  Critical  to 
making  the  model  useful  is  a  very  detailed  evaluation 
of  how  the  model’s  results  are  affected  by  the  specific 
assumptions.  The  relative  degree  to  which  results 
change  (sensitivity)  provide  an  understanding  of  the 
key  assumptions  and  how  important  they  are.  Using 
upper  and  lower  bounds  for  the  major  assumptions 
helps  to  delineate  a  range  of  possible  outcomes. 


Why  Use  a  Public  Policy  Model? 

Past  and  present  are  prologue  to  the  future;  but  not 
necessarily  in  a  simply  derived  manner.  It  is  not  clear 
whether  the  elderly  of  tomorrow  will  look  at  all  like 
the  elderly  of  today.  Therefore,  when  it  comes  to  esti¬ 
mating  the  future  of  long-term  care  in  general,  and 
the  potential  for  long-term  care  insurance,  in  particu¬ 

•  Briefing  paper  prepared  by  Robert  B.  Friedland,  for  November  8,  1989, 
working  meeting. 


lar,  the  present  is  not  likely  to  be  an  accurate  repre¬ 
sentation  of  the  future. 

The  fundamental  flaw  in  trending  the  present  for¬ 
ward  is  that  behavior  changes  over  time,  and.  even 
more  complicated,  it  will  change  in  response  to 
changes  in  public  policy.  Trending  assumes  that  be¬ 
havior  does  not  change  and  therefore  poses  a  prob¬ 
lem.  For  example,  applying  current  service  use  by 
demographic  groupings  to  projections  of  the  future 
necessitates  the  assumption  that  the  prevalence  rates 
remain  the  same — that  is,  the  long-term  care  needs  of 
today’s  80  year  old  widow  will  be  the  same  for  to¬ 
morrow’s  80  year  old  widow.  In  lieu  of  any  other  in¬ 
formation,  this  may  be  the  best  we  can  do,  but  it  is 
important  to  recognize  that  tomorrow’s  80  year  old 
widow  might  not  look  like  today’s.  Furthermore,  pro¬ 
jections  of  how  many  80  year  old  widows  there  will 
be  may  not  be  correct. 

Limitations  in  our  ability  to  apply  the  present  to  the 
future,  however,  do  not  necessarily  imply  that  devel¬ 
oping  the  tools  to  evaluate  the  future  for  purposes  of 
public  policy  is  not  a  worthwhile  endeavor.  A  model 
has  the  capacity  to  systematically  evaluate  many  of 
the  interrelationships  as  perceived  to  be  affecting  be¬ 
havior.  It  therefore  enables  researchers  to  test  the  rel¬ 
ative  importance  of  these  relationships.  As  a  research 
tool,  such  models  offer  the  opportunity  to  carefully 
think  through,  and  estimate  our  understanding  of 
these  relationships  and  to  establish  a  focused  research 
agenda  that  can  assist  public  policy. 

The  more  realistic  the  model,  the  less  sensitive  the 
outcomes  will  be  to  slight  differences  in  assumptions. 
Testing  this  sensitivity  is  critical  in  developing  the 
model  and  in  understanding  its  limits.  Generating  such 
a  model  must  be  an  ongoing  endeavor,  as  research — 
guided  by  the  focus  of  the  model — brings  to  light  a 
clearer  understanding  of  these  relationships. 

The  relative  ease  and  our  temptation  to  view  a 
single  set  of  results  encased  in  a  table  as  the  “truth” 
can  easily  mislead  public  policy.  As  a  policy  tool, 
therefore,  it  is  important  that  the  limitations  of  mod¬ 
eling  be  understood  and  that  the  range  of  outcomes 


231 


associated  with  various  assumptions  be  used  as  indica¬ 
tors,  rather  than  definitive  answers.  With  the  appro¬ 
priate  caution,  models  can  be  used  as  important  inputs 
in  the  decision  making  process. 


Key  Assumptions  in  a  Long-Term  Care  Model 

To  be  useful,  a  model  should  be  able  to  project 
how  much  the  cost  of  long-term  care  will  change  and 
the  distribution  of  the  financing  of  this  cost,  assuming 
no  change  in  public  policy.  This  is  usually  called  the 
“base  case.”  While  the  model’s  results  after  the  intro¬ 
duction  of  a  specific  public  policy  option  into  the 
model  can  be  informative,  the  comparison  with  the 
base  case  is  much  more  relevant.  It  tells  you  how 
much  difference  the  policy  made.  Important  consider¬ 
ations  in  evaluating  the  impact  of  the  policy  change  is 
how  total  costs  change  and  the  distribution  of  that 
change  in  total  cost.  The  array  of  assumptions  that 
are  critical  to  posing  hypotheses  about  the  future 
include: 

•  the  distribution  of  the  population; 

•  how  the  change  in  the  population  will  affect  the 
need  for  and  demand  of  long-term  care  services 
and  how  this  will  affect  the  cost  of  long-term 
care  services; 

•  how  the  economy  will  change  and  how  this  will 
affect  the  economic  well  being  of  those  who  are 
at  risk  of  needing  long-term  care; 

•  how  individuals’  income  and  assets  will  affect  the 
demand  for  and  supply  of  private  long-term  care 
insurance  policies  and  consequently  the  price  and 
ownership  of  such  policies. 

The  size  and  distribution  of  the  population  depends 
on  fertility  and  mortality  rates.  The  size  and  distribu¬ 
tion  of  the  population,  in  conjunction  with  disability 
rates,  have  a  direct  effect  on  long-term  care  service 
use.  The  demand  for  long-term  care  services,  in  con¬ 
junction  with  the  supply  of  services,  affects  the  cost 
of  services.  Both  the  feasibility  of  purchasing  private 
insurance  and  the  demand  for  long-term  care  insur¬ 
ance  depend  on  the  economic  resources  of  the  popu¬ 
lation,  the  proportion  of  one’s  resources  that  can  be 
reasonably  devoted  to  such  policies,  the  price  and 
adequacy  of  the  policies,  and  the  willingness  of  con¬ 
sumers  to  purchase  policies. 

Demographic  Factors,  Service  Use,  and  the  Cost  of 
Services — 

1.  Fertility  and  Mortality  Rates — We  know  a  great 
deal  about  fertility  and  mortality  rates  and  can,  under 
the  assumption  that  fertility  and  mortality  rates  con¬ 


tinue  along  the  same  path,  project  future  age  and  sex 
distributions  of  the  U.S.  population.  Since  part  of  the 
future  distribution  of  working  adults  and  elderly  have 
already  been  born,  there  is  a  fairly  well  known  lead 
time  on  these  projections.  But  slight  variations  in 
either  fertility  rates  or  mortality  rates  can  have  sub¬ 
stantial  impacts  on  the  projected  age  distributions. 
Our  ability  to  project  the  future  elderly  population 
has  historically  been  frustrated  by  an  inability  to  fore¬ 
see  improvements  in  mortality  rates. 

2.  Disability — Clearly,  the  potential  for  needing 
long-term  care  depends  on  morbidity  or  disability 
rates  (as  well  as  the  severity  of  that  disability  and 
living  arrangements).  It  is  easiest  to  assume  that  dis¬ 
ability  rates  by  age  and  sex,  and  marital  status  in  the 
future  will  remain  the  same;  but  the  size  of  the  pro¬ 
jected  long-term  care  population  will  directly  depend 
on  assumptions  of  mortality  rates.  If  mortality  rates 
are  assumed  to  continue  to  decline  (more  people  at 
each  age  and  sex  group  are  assumed  to  survive)  and 
disability  rates  remain  the  same,  then  more  people 
will  need  long-term  care.  The  literature  on  the  rela¬ 
tionship  between  mortality  and  morbidity  is  not  con¬ 
clusive.  That  is,  we  do  not  know  if  people  are  living 
longer  and  healthier  or  surviving  strokes  and  heart 
attacks  only  to  need  assistance  from  others  to  func¬ 
tion  on  a  daily  basis.1  There  are  data  to  support  both 
notions. 

It  is  certainly  impossible  to  project  medical  break¬ 
throughs  on  major  chronic  debilitating  conditions. 
But,  delaying  the  onset  of  Alzheimer’s  Disease  or 
some  other  related  dementia,  or  controlling  inconti¬ 
nence  with  drug  therapies,  for  example,  would  sub¬ 
stantially  alter  the  long-term  care  needs  in  the  future. 

3.  Long-Term  Care  Service  Use — We  know  relatively 
little  about  the  course  of  long-term  care  over  an  indi¬ 
vidual’s  life.  Furthermore,  what  we  do  know  is  based 
on  current  financing  arrangements.  How  we  have  fi¬ 
nanced  long-term  care  has  had  a  tremendous  influence 
on  the  organization  and  delivery  of  care  (as  well  as 
the  quality  of  that  care).  Very  recent  data  bases  pro¬ 
vide  new  insights  into  utilization  and  caregiving  ar¬ 
rangements,  but  most  of  this  information  is  at  a  single 
point  in  time  or,  at  the  most  over  a  fairly  limited 
period  of  time. 

Projecting  is  complicated  by  the  fact  that  the  very 
public  policy  under  investigation  may,  by  itself,  also 
alter  service  use.  Service  use  may  change  in  several 


1  See  for  example  Kenneth  G.  Manton,  “Past  and  Future  Life  Expectancy 
at  Later  Ages:  Their  Implications  for  the  Linkage  of  Chronic  Morbidity,  Dis¬ 
ability,  and  Mortality,”  Journal  of  Gerontology  (September  1986):  672-681; 
and  James  F.  Fries,  “Aging,  Natural  Death,  and  the  Compression  of  Morbid¬ 
ity,”  New  England  Journal  of  Medicine  (July  17,  1980):  13CM35. 


232 


ways.  Current  use  has  been  limited  by  the  availability 
of  services  and  the  ability  to  pay  for  services  that  are 
available.  Increased  financing  may  make  these  serv¬ 
ices  available,  and  coverage  (which  subsidizes  the  cost 
of  the  service)  will  enable  more  people  to  avail  them¬ 
selves  of  the  services.  Second,  service  use  may  in¬ 
crease  because  the  availability  of  services  may  alter 
the  type  and/or  quantity  of  care  provided  by  family 
and  friends.  Finally,  to  the  extent  that  informal 
caregivers  may  not  be  available  to  provide  care  in  the 
future  (e.g.,  due  to  decreased  fertility  rates  and  in¬ 
creased  labor  force  participation  rates  among  women), 
there  will  be  a  greater  demand  for  formal  services. 

4.  Cost  of  Long-Term  Care — A  critical  assumption  is 
the  expected  cost  of  care.  Both  the  demand  and 
supply  of  services  will  affect  the  price  and  cost  of 
paid  care.  The  demand  is  dependent  on  the  popula¬ 
tion,  disability  rate,  utilization  rate,  and  the  financing 
(including  reimbursement  policy).  The  supply  of  care 
also  depends  on  financing  and,  in  particular,  reim¬ 
bursement,  as  well  as  the  availability  of  people  to 
work  as  caregivers,  care  coordinators,  administrators, 
etc.,  in  providing  long-term  care. 

The  interesting  problem  posed  by  rising  prices  is 
that  the  market  responds  in  countervailing  ways.  The 
higher  the  reimbursement  relative  to  the  cost  of  pro¬ 
viding  care  the  more  likely  the  supply  of  services  will 
increase.  However,  depending  on  how  sensitive  po¬ 
tential  users  are  to  the  price,  the  higher  the  price,  the 
less  the  demand  for  that  service.  Our  understanding  of 
these  interactions,  especially  when  we  compound  the 
complexity  of  the  issue  with  different  kinds  of  serv¬ 
ices  that  can  be  substituted  for  one  another,  is  rela¬ 
tively  limited. 

Key  Issues  Concerning  Estimating  the  Potential  for 
Private  Long-Term  Care  Insurance — A  number  of  as¬ 
sumptions  must  be  made  to  estimate  the  potential  pri¬ 
vate  long-term  care  insurance  market.  Some  of  the 
more  critical  issues  include  how  will  the  emerging 
private  market  change — without  any  public  policy 
intervention — the  potential  in  the  future  of  individuals 
to  afford  policies,  and  the  relationship  between  afford¬ 
ability  and  the  decision  to  actually  purchase  a  policy. 
Affordability  depends  on  the  income  and  assets  of 
consumers  as  well  as  the  price  of  the  insurance  policy. 

1.  Predicting  the  Future  From  the  Emerging  Private 
Long-Term  Care  Insurance  Market—  Private  insurance 
for  some  long-term  care  has  been  available  for  a 
decade  or  so.  Most  large  health  or  life  insurance 
companies  did  not  express  any  interest  in  developing 
policies  until  after  1985.  Since  then,  the  market  for 
long-term  care  insurance  has  changed  dramatically. 
The  number  of  policies  sold  has  increased  from  virtu¬ 


ally  zero  a  decade  ago  to  perhaps  over  1.3  million, 
with  most  of  that  growth  in  the  last  two  years.  The 
estimated  number  of  policies  sold  increased  from  2.8 
percent  to  5.4  percent  of  the  elderly.  By  today’s 
standards,  many  of  the  policies  sold  for  long-term 
care  even  3  years  ago  would  no  longer  be  considered 
adequate  long-term  care  insurance  policies.  These 
recent  changes  reflect  insurer  competition,  regulator 
concern,  and  consumer  preferences  in  the  develop¬ 
ment  of  this  market. 

The  most  promising  development  for  the  expansion 
of  the  private  insurance  market  has  been  employer  in¬ 
terest.  Employers  have  the  potential  to  focus  em¬ 
ployees’  attention  on  the  need  to  consider  long-term 
care  in  their  retirement  planning.  Furthermore,  em¬ 
ployment  based  policies  have  less  administrative  and 
marketing  costs  than  individually  sold  policies.  Cur¬ 
rently  about  35  employers  provide  (or  are  about  to 
provide)  access  to  a  long-term  care  insurance  policy 
that  costs  about  25  percent  less  than  the  same  policy 
sold  on  an  individual  basis. 

Most  employers  that  have  established  plans  have 
made  the  insurance  available  to  their  employees  and 
their  spouses,  retirees  and  their  spouses,  and  the  par¬ 
ents  of  employees  or  their  spouses.  Except  for  two 
union  negotiated  pilot  studies,  premiums  have  been 
employee-paid. 

How  far  will  this  trend  go?  Will  employees  and  em¬ 
ployers  begin  to  restructure  employee  compensation 
to  include  an  employer  payment  of  premiums?  (Many 
employers  do  provide  more  conventional  benefits — 
pensions  and  health  insurance — but  about  half  of  all 
workers  are  not  covered  by  a  pension  and  15  percent 
of  all  workers  are  not  covered  by  employer-provided 
health  insurance.)2 

The  rapid  developments,  as  well  as  the  infancy  of 
this  market  pose  serious  problems  for  projection  pur¬ 
poses.  Data  are  insufficient  to  know  how  these  poli¬ 
cies  (and  their  price)  will  change  and  how  employer 
and  purchaser  attitudes  will  change  in  the  future. 

2.  The  Importance  of  Income  and  Assets:  Affordability 
and  Demand  for  Long-Term  Care  Insurance — Both  the 
state  of  the  economy  and  how  people  have  fared  over 
the  projection  period  are  very  critical  components  of 
any  projection  endeavor.  Retirement  income,  both 
from  employee  pensions  and  social  security,  is  di¬ 
rectly  related  to  work  histories  and  the  economy 


2  Joseph  Piacentini  and  Timothy  Cerino,  EBRI  Data  Book  on  Employee 
Benefits  (Washington,  D.C.:  Employee  Benefit  Research  Institute,  forthcom¬ 
ing);  and  Deborah  J.  Chollet,  “Uninsured  in  the  United  States:  The 
Nonelderly  Population  Without  Health  Insurance”,  1986  (Employee  Benefit 
Research  institute,  1988). 


233 


during  those  years.  The  amount  of  assets  accumu¬ 
lated,  too,  are  directly  related  to  these  factors,  as  are 
savings  behavior  and  inheritances. 

Income  and  assets  are  important  in  making  deci¬ 
sions  about  receiving  long-term  care,  purchasing  long¬ 
term  care  insurance,  and  whether  or  not  the  need  for 
long-term  care  will  entail  any  Medicaid  expenditures. 
Underestimates  of  savings,  for  example,  will  lead  to 
an  increased  likelihood  of  disabled  people  needing 
assistance  from  the  state  Medicaid  program  and  an 
underestimate  of  the  potential  of  long-term  care  insur¬ 
ance.  We  know  that  savings  behavior  varies  by  age 
cohort  and  by  sex  and  marital  status;  what  we  do  not 
know  is  how  savings  behavior  will  change. 

Most  discussions  on  the  potential  for  long-term  care 
insurance  center  on  the  question  of  what  is  affordable. 
Affordability  indicates  who  could  purchase  long-term 
care  insurance;  demand,  however,  is  the  indicator  for 
willingness  to  actually  purchase.  Changes  in  demand 
could  affect  the  supply  and  the  price  of  insurance. 
Lacking  appropriate  data  to  determine  demand, 
affordability  is  often  used  as  a  proxy  for  the  market 
potential.  But  affordability  is  a  subjective  concept. 

What  is  a  reasonable  assumption  for  affordability — 
two  percent,  five  percent,  ten  percent  of  income? 
How  important  are  the  level  and  type  of  assets  in  in¬ 
fluencing  an  individual’s  willingness  to  purchase  a 
policy?  There  are  no  data  other  than  preference  polls 
from  which  to  gauge  the  demand  for  insurance 
relative  to  family  income  and  assets.  Furthermore, 
affordability  may  be  different  over  various  stages  in  a 
individual’s  lifetime. 

A  comparison  of  two  measures  of  affordability  in 
the  current  population  (age  45  and  older),  illustrates 
how  estimates  may  vary.  Under  an  affordability  as¬ 
sumption  that  people  who  are  not  now  disabled 
would  purchase  long-term  care  insurance  if  they  had 
at  least  $10,000  in  assets  and  premiums  were  not  more 
than  5  percent  of  their  income,  54  percent  of  the 
population  age  45  to  64  and  7  percent  of  the  current 
population  age  65  or  older  would  be  able  to  afford  a 
$50  a  day  nursing  home  benefit  and  a  $25  a  day  home 
care  benefit  long-term  care  insurance  policy  (with  a 
60  day  deductible). 

If,  instead,  affordability  were  based  on  “discretion¬ 
ary”  income  and  assets  (annuitized  assets  and  income 
with  necessary  expenditures,  such  as  food,  shelter, 
clothing,  medical  expenses,  and  taxes,  etc.,  subtracted 
out)  and  if  affordability  were  defined  as  20  percent  of 
discretionary  income  and  assets,  then  54  percent  of 


the  nonelderly  and  4  percent  of  the  elderly  would  be 
able  to  afford  such  insurance  at  age  65  or  older.3 

In  this  example,  more  than  half  of  the  nonelderly 
were  considered  capable  of  “affording”  a  long-term 
care  insurance  policy  that  would  pay  $50  a  day  for 
nursing  home  care,  yet  only  a  negligible  portion  of 
this  population  have  actually  bought  such  policies. 
“Affording”  a  policy  and  “demanding”  a  policy  are 
two  different  things.  This  may  reflect  the  lack  of 
consumer  awareness,  dissatisfaction  with  what  the 
policy  offers,  an  unwillingness  to  spend  5  percent  of 
their  income,  or  an  unwillingness  to  purchase  a  policy 
with  this  value. 

In  the  future,  based  on  current  costs  of  long-term 
care  insurance,  the  potential  for  a  large  segment  of 
the  population  to  have  purchased  long-term  care  in¬ 
surance  depends  on  (1)  how  many  people  will  pur¬ 
chase  long-term  care  insurance  during  their  working 
years  and  continue  paying  premiums  for  the  rest  of 
their  life  and  (2)  how  many  people  who  do  not  buy 
such  insurance  prior  to  retirement  will  be  willing  and 
able  to  purchase  such  insurance  after  they  do  retire. 

Most  policies  are  marketed  as  lifetime  decisions. 
That  is,  the  price  does  not  reflect  the  current  risk  of 
needing  long-term  care,  rather  the  price  is  based  on 
an  average  lifetime  price.  As  a  consequence,  when 
one  has  been  paying  premiums  for  some  time,  the 
price  of  the  policy  is  low  relative  to  the  risk  later  in 
life,  but  high  relative  to  the  risk  of  needing  long-term 
care  in  the  earlier  years.  To  retain  value  in  the  policy, 
however,  policy  holders  must  continue  to  pay  premi¬ 
ums  (although  some  insurers  are  considering  policies 
that  refund  part  of  the  premium  paid).  Insurance  pur¬ 
chased  at  age  30  under  these  financing  arrangements 
cost  a  tenth  of  what  it  costs  at  age  65. 4 

Will  a  50  year  old,  who  might  not  need  any  long¬ 
term  care  for  25  years,  be  willing  to  risk  purchasing  a 
policy  that  will  pay  $50  a  day  for  a  nursing  home  stay 
and  $25  a  day  for  home  health  care?  Consumers  face 
several  risks  in  deciding  on  a  policy,  including  that 
his  or  her  expectations  about  inflation  and  the  future 
cost  of  long-term  care  will  be  wrong,  that  he  or  she 
will  not  be  able  to  afford  to  continue  to  pay  the  pre¬ 
mium,  or  that  the  insurer  will  not  honor  the  policy 
(either  because  they  are  no  longer  in  business  or  be- 


3  Tabulations  using  the  Survey  of  Income  and  Program  Participation 
(SIPP)  in  Friedland,  Facing  the  Costs  of  Long-Term  Care,  (Washington,  D.C.: 
EBRI,  forthcoming). 

4  In  addition  to  compounding  interest,  premiums  are  currently  so  much 
less  because  it  is  assumed  that  a  certain  percentage  of  policy  holders  will 
drop  the  policy  years  before  the  risk  of  needing  long-term  care  is  even  no¬ 
ticeable.  If  these  “lapse  rates”  do  not  hold  (or  decline)  then  the  differential  in 
premiums  by  age  will  increasingly  depend  on  expected  rates  of  return  in  pre¬ 
mium  reserves.  Furthermore,  declining  lapse  rates,  holding  all  else  constant, 
will  lead  to  increased  premiums. 


234 


cause  that  type  of  policy  was  cancelled).  Consumer 
preferences  could  be  influenced  by  employer-paid 
premiums  or  by  government  regulation;  both  of 
which  are  uncertain.  As  for  the  elderly,  their  future 
behavior  depends  heavily  on  their  income  and  assets. 

Projections  of  the  income  of  the  elderly  in  the 
future  from  the  Pension  and  Retirement  Income 
Model  (PRISM)  suggest  that  for  married  couples  who 
turn  age  67  between  2012  and  2021,  real  Social  Secu¬ 
rity  income  is  expected  to  increase  nearly  35  percent 
and  employer  sponsored  pension  income  is  expected 
to  be  more  than  double  the  Social  Security  income 
and  employer-sponsored  pension  income  among  cur¬ 
rent  retirees.  For  unmarried  individuals,  Social  Secu¬ 
rity  income  is  projected  to  increase  42  percent  and 
employer-sponsored  pension  income  by  81  percent. 
The  Dynamic  Simulation  of  Income  Model 
(DYNASIM)  suggests  that  mean  retirement  income  of 
the  elderly  couples  will,  on  average,  increase  79  per¬ 
cent  by  2010  and  128  percent  by  2030.  For  unmarried 
men,  mean  retirement  income  is  projected  to  increase 
57  percent  by  2010  and  118  percent  by  2030;  for  un¬ 
married  women,  the  corresponding  rates  of  increase 
are  40  percent  and  113  percent,  respectively. 

The  more  optimistic  DYNASIM  projections  sug¬ 
gest  that,  in  2030,  about  80  percent  of  unmarried 
women  and  60  percent  of  unmarried  men  will  still 
have  incomes  of  less  than  $20,000  (in  1988  dollars) — 
leaving,  for  the  most  part,  premiums  for  long-term 
care  insurance  in  excess  of  5  percent  of  income  for 
more  than  70  percent  of  the  unmarried  elderly  in  2030 
(assuming  the  purchase  of  insurance  did  not  occur 
until  after  age  64). 5  How  many  of  these  elderly  would 
have  already  purchased  long-term  care  insurance 
(prior  to  retirement)  is  not  attainable  without  addi¬ 
tional  modeling.  Assets  of  the  future  elderly  are 
unknown. 

Description  of  Two  Alternative 
Public  Policy  Models 

Two  competing  models  that  are  in  process  include 
the  Brookings/ICF  Incorporated  Long-Term  Care 
Model  and  the  LifePlans,  Inc.,  Long-Term  Care 
Model.  Both  models  have  been  developed  with  the  in¬ 
tention  of  estimating  the  effects  of  public  policy  op¬ 
tions  on  the  financing  of  long-term  care.  The 
Lifeplans,  Inc.  model  was  initiated  long  after  the 


5  From  Sheila  R.  Zedlewski,  Roberta  O.  Barnes,  Martha  K.  Burt,  Timothy 
D.  McBride,  and  Jack  Meyer,  “The  Needs  of  the  Elderly  In  The  21st  Cen¬ 
tury,”  The  Urban  Institute,  DRAFT.  July  1989,  Figure  4.5. 


Brookings/ICF,  Inc.  model  was  first  completed  and  is 
built  in  an  entirely  different  way.6 

The  Brookings/ICF,  Inc.,  Long-Term  Care  Model — 

The  results  of  an  earlier  version  of  the  Brookings/ 
ICF,  Inc.  microsimulation  model  were  widely  dis¬ 
seminated  in  a  policy  study  by  Alice  Rivlin  and 
Joshua  Wiener  in  1988. 7  For  many  different  reasons, 
their  book  has  received  a  great  deal  of  attention.  It 
has  been  praised  for  raising  the  alarm  that  the  cost  of 
long-term  care  is  going  to  increase,  and  for  the  at¬ 
tempt  to  include,  as  a  criterion  for  public  policy  eval¬ 
uation,  the  impact  of  private  financing  alternatives  on 
current  public  programs.8  The  latter  is  an  explicit  at¬ 
tempt  to  measure  the  trade-offs  in  social  policy  associ¬ 
ated  with  public  subsidies  (that  is,  who  benefits  and  at 
what  expense).  On  the  other  hand,  the  book  did  not 
provide  a  sufficiently  complete  set  of  sensitivity  anal¬ 
yses  to  enable  the  reader  to  understand  how  sensitive 
the  results  are  to  specific  assumptions.  Other  funda¬ 
mental  criticisms  of  the  study  center  around  the  spe¬ 
cific  assumptions  used,  in  particular  the  long-term 
care  inflation  rate,  and  the  assumed  direct  correspond¬ 
ing  linkage  between  need,  demand,  and  supply. 

The  Brookings/ICF  model  builds  upon  the  PRISM 
model  of  projecting  retirement  income  by  adding  a 
component  that  accounts  for  disability,  the  use  of 
long-term  care  services,  and  the  sources  and  levels  of 
payment  for  those  services.  Basically,  the  model  takes 
individuals  age  25  and  older  in  1979  and  simulates  the 
rest  of  their  lives  using  probabilities  compared  to  a 
computer  generated  random  draw.  For  each  life 
“event,”  a  random  number  (between  0  and  1)  is 
drawn  and  compared  to  the  probability  of  that  event. 
If  the  number  drawn  is  less  than  the  specific  probabil¬ 
ity,  then  that  event  occurs;  if  the  number  is  greater, 
then  that  event  does  not  occur.  Events  include: 
changing  jobs,  participating  in  a  pension  plan,  becom¬ 
ing  100  percent  vested  in  that  pension,  contributing  to 
an  individual  retirement  account,  getting  married,  get¬ 
ting  divorced,  having  children,  leaving  the  labor 
market  to  raise  children,  re-entering  the  labor  market, 
retiring,  becoming  disabled,  needing  long-term  care 
services,  entering  a  nursing  home,  receiving  home 
health  care,  and  dying.  Each  individual  in  the  model 
faces  all  of  these  events  (and  more)  for  a  simulated 
year.  The  probabilities  they  face  are  specific  to  the  in¬ 
dividual’s  age,  sex,  income  and  marital  status  in  that 
simulation  year.  The  first  part  of  the  model,  PRISM, 


6  Much  of  this  model  is  not  yet  complete.  Preliminary  and  confidential  re¬ 
sults  have  only  been  shared  with  a  small  group  of  technical  advisors. 

7  Alice  M.  Rivlin  and  Joshua  M.  Wiener,  Caring  for  the  Disabled  Elderly: 
Who  Will  Pay?,  (Washington  DC:  Brookings  Institution,  1988). 

8  See  for  example  Christine  Bishop,  “Long-Term  Care:  Sharing  of  the 
Burden,"  Science.  (243)  1738-1739,  Mark  V.  Pauly  in  Health  Affairs,  (Fall 
1988),  169-172;  and  an  unpublished  response  by  the  Health  Insurance  Asso¬ 
ciation  of  America,  May  1988. 


235 


takes  the  individual  out  to  age  65.  At  that  age,  an  in¬ 
dividual’s  marital  status  and  retirement  income  have 
been  determined  by  their  experiences  within  the 
model. 

In  the  version  of  the  model  used  for  the  Rivlin 
and  Wiener  study,  the  decision  to  purchase  long-term 
care  insurance  was  made  at  age  65.  It  was  assumed 
that  insurance  was  purchased  as  long  as  premiums 
were  below  a  specific  percentage  of  income  for  those 
with  a  minimum  level  of  assets.  Assets  from  the  1983 
Survey  of  Consumer  Finance  were  statistically 
matched  to  those  who  had  retired  in  the  model.  What 
this  implies  is  that  a  lifetime  of  savings  behavior  of  65 
year  olds  from  an  earlier  period  are  assumed  to  be  the 
same  for  future  cohorts  of  65  year  olds.  To  the  extent 
that  different  cohorts  are  more  or  less  inclined  to 
save,  and  have  the  ability  to  save,  this  will  bias  future 
projected  levels  and  types  of  assets.  Furthermore,  the 
model  did  not  incorporate  any  savings  from  retire¬ 
ment  age  forward. 

From  age  65  forward,  individuals  were  aged  and 
then  faced  events  relevant  to  long-term  care,  (death, 
disability,  long-term  care  service  use).  Income,  assets, 
and  the  ownership  of  long-term  care  insurance  deter¬ 
mine  who  will  end  up  paying  for  the  care  that  was 
assumed  to  be  purchased.  The  long-term  care  use 
probabilities  were  derived  from  the  1982  National 
Long-Term  Care  Survey  and  the  1977  National  Nurs¬ 
ing  Home  Survey. 

Since  publication  of  the  book,  more  recent — and  in 
some  cases,  more  appropriate — survey  data  have 
become  available.  The  model  has  been  recently  up¬ 
dated  to  incorporate  the  asset  data  from  the  Survey  of 
Income  and  Program  Participation  (SIPP),  and  the 
service  use  probabilities  based  on  the  1984  follow-up 
and  expansion  of  the  1982  National  Long-Term  Care 
Survey  and  the  1985  National  Nursing  Home  Survey. 
More  importantly,  the  model’s  long-term  care  insur¬ 
ance  policies  have  been  updated  to  include  an  infla¬ 
tion  protected  benefit  and  the  decision  to  purchase 
insurance  before  retirement  has  been  incorporated.  In 
one  version  of  the  current  model,  employers  are  as¬ 


sumed  to  increasingly  make  available  access  to  a  long¬ 
term  care  insurance  policy  and  in  another,  employers 
pay  for  part  of  the  premium. 

Despite  these  improvements,  the  model  still  faces 
some  important  limitations.  In  particular,  the  model 
does  not  incorporate  any  savings  behavior  after  age 
65,  there  are  no  long-term  care  service  supply  con¬ 
straints,  which  means  that  the  inflation  assumptions 
become  very  critical,  we  have  incomplete  information 
on  nursing  home  lengths  of  stay,  and  the  model  is 
tied  to  individuals  age  25  and  older  in  1979 — limiting 
the  time  in  which  future  projections  can  be  consid¬ 
ered  reliable. 

The  model  is  tied  to  individuals  in  1979  because  the 
May  supplement  to  the  Current  Population  Survey 
was  matched  to  Social  Security  records  to  enable  the 
model  to  generate  Social  Security  income  from  actual 
work  histories.  This  means  that  to  obtain  results  for 
1989,  the  model  has  had  to  produce  10  years  of  simu¬ 
lations.  Thus,  for  the  first  10  years,  it  is  relatively  easy 
to  see  how  well  the  model  has  been  doing  compared 
to  actual  data,  but  to  go  10  years  out  from  today  the 
model  has  to  simulate  20  years.  Furthermore,  because 
of  this  starting  point,  only  the  first  half  of  the  baby- 
boom  generation  is  incorporated  in  the  simulations. 

The  HIAA/LifePlans,  Inc.,  Long-Term  Care 
Model — The  Health  Insurance  Association  of  Amer¬ 
ica  has  helped  to  finance  an  alternative  long-term  care 
public  financing  model.  Instead  of  simulating  all  of 
life’s  events,  this  model  accounts  for  behavior  mathe¬ 
matically,  using  data  on  population  and  market  char¬ 
acteristics  in  solving  a  variety  of  important  behavioral 
equations.  In  a  joint  venture  with  Lifeplans  Incor¬ 
porated  and  economists  at  Brandeis  and  Boston  Uni¬ 
versities,  this  approach  models  the  various  markets 
associated  with  long-term  care.  This  includes  the 
supply  and  demand  for  long-term  care  services  and 
the  supply  and  demand  for  long-term  care  insurance. 

Details  on  the  model  are  not  available,  since  the 
model  is  not  yet  complete,  and  nothing  has  yet  been 
published. 


236 


Converting  Life  Insurance  Benefits  to  Long-Term  Care  Benefits  * 


In  the  October  5,  1989  Commission  hearing,  Rich¬ 
ard  Schweiker,  President  of  the  American  Council  of 
Life  Insurance,  made  some  comments  that  raised 
questions  and  perhaps  some  confusion.  I  thought  I 
should  sort  out  three  questions  that  were  raised.  Spe¬ 
cifically,  I  would  like  to  address  the  question  of  the 
potential  to  unleash  S4.5  trillion  for  long-term  care, 
the  Federal  tax  consequences,  and  the  need  for  tax 
clarification. 


On  the  Question  of  the  Potential  of  the 
$4.5  Trillion 

The  $4.5  trillion  represents  potential  life  insurance 
liabilities  with  respect  to  individually  purchased  poli¬ 
cies  actually  in  force.  Premiums  collected  for  these 
policies  do  not  approach  $4.5  trillion  (which  is  nearly 
the  entire  Gross  National  Product).  In  1989,  an  esti¬ 
mated  103  million  individuals  held  individual  whole 
and  term  life  insurance  policies  whose  death  benefits 
would  be  $4.5  trillion  if  all  policy  holders  were  to 
have  died  in  that  year. 

The  potential  suggested  by  the  $4.5  trillion  these 
policies  represent  assumes  that  all  current  policy 
holders  pay  the  slightly  larger  premium  for  the  long¬ 
term  care  rider  and  hold  on  to  the  policy  until  they 
need  long-term  care.  It  is  not  certain  how  many 
people  would  do  that.  Converting  the  death  benefit  to 
a  long-term  care  benefit  is  not  costless  to  the 
consumer.  The  policyholder  who  needs  long-term 
care  loses  an  equal  value  of  their  death  benefit.  While 
this  flexibility  could  be  useful  to  all  policyholders,  it 
would  be  most  useful  to  those  who  no  longer  need 
the  protection  of  life-insurance,  that  is,  the  older 
population. 

Survey  data  tabulated  by  the  ACLI  suggests  that  in 
1987,  while  18  percent  of  the  policies  were  held  by 
those  age  65  or  older;  32  percent  of  the  non-elderly 
and  49  percent  of  the  elderly  have  whole-life  or  uni¬ 
versal  insurance. 


*  Memorandum  to  Commissioners  from  Robert  B.  Friedland,  November 
18.  1989. 


The  potential  of  the  policy  to  actually  cover  long¬ 
term  care  is  primarily  based  on  the  value  of  the  death 
benefit.  While  the  likelihood  of  having  a  policy  does 
not  vary  very  much  by  income,  the  value  of  the  death 
benefit  does.  In  1984,  median  coverage  was  $42,000 
among  those  with  household  income  in  excess  of 
$35,000  but  less  than  $7,300  among  households  with 
less  than  $17,500  in  household  income.  Median 
income  of  the  elderly  in  1987  was  $14,334.  According 
to  the  ACLI,  the  average  death  benefit  for  permanent 
life  insurance  policies  sold  in  1988  was  about  $50,000. 
At  the  moment  about  1 1  life-insurance  companies  sell 
policies  with  long-term  care  riders.  Most  of  the  poli¬ 
cies  allow  policy  holders  the  use  of  the  entire  death 
benefit;  although  there  are  a  few  that  will  limit  the 
use  to  perhaps  half  the  death  benefit.  Except  for  the 
“dread  disease”  or  terminal  illness  policies  the  death 
benefit  is  paid  in  increments  of  a  certain  percent  per 
month,  typically  2  percent  per  month.  That  is,  if  one 
is  holding  a  policy  with  a  $50,000  death  benefit,  the 
long-term  care  insurance  potential  in  a  typical  policy 
would  be  $1,000  a  month  for  50  months.  (The 
monthly  average  cost  of  nursing  home  care  is  $2,000.) 


On  the  Tax  Consequences  of  This  Conversion 

Whole  or  universal  life  insurance  consists  of  a  death 
benefit  and  a  cash  value  that  arises  by  virtue  of  the 
level  of  premium  payments  (premiums  are  greater 
than  the  risk  of  dying  in  the  early  years  and  less  than 
the  risk  of  dying  in  the  later  years).  The  cash  value  is, 
however,  available  as  a  loan  or  if  the  policy  is  sev¬ 
ered,  outright.  In  this  sense,  whole  or  universal  life  in¬ 
surance  is  life  insurance  whose  death  benefit  is  not 
taxed  and  a  savings  instrument  whose  earnings  are  not 
taxed  as  they  accrue  but  is  subject  to  taxation  if  used. 
Under  current  law,  beneficiaries  do  not  pay  income 
taxes  on  the  death  benefit  they  receive  (and  there  may 
be,  however,  estate  taxes).  If  the  policy  holder  had 
decided  to  cash  in  their  life-insurance  policy,  the 
cash-value  less  the  premiums  paid  would,  however,  be 
subject  to  income  taxes. 

Mr.  Schweicker  indicated  that  having  an  individual 
convert  a  death  benefit  to  a  long-term  care  policy 
would  not  cost  the  federal  government  any  loss  in  tax 


237 


revenues.  This  is  correct  if  all  life-insurance  policies 
are  not  cashed  in  prior  to  death.  However,  if  a  policy 
would  have  been  cashed  in,  but  because  of  the  rider  is 
not,  then  there  is  a  loss  in  tax  expenditures.  That  is,  if 
one  were  to  cash  in  their  life-insurance  policy — even 
to  purchase  long-term  care  insurance — this  transaction 
could  result  in  some  additional  tax  revenues.  (How¬ 
ever,  if  the  cash  is  used  for  medical  reasons,  those 
expenditures — in  excess  of  7.5  percent  of  adjusted 
gross  income — could  be  itemized  as  a  durable  medical 
expense.) 


On  the  Need  for  Tax  Clarification 

It  should  be  pointed  out  that  life  insurance  riders 
for  long-term  care  do  not  necessarily  need  tax  clarifi¬ 


cation  to  exist.  There  may  be  some  controversy  at  the 
state  level  that  clarification  would  assist,  but  by  and 
large,  such  policies  could  be  (and  are)  sold  under  the 
current  tax  code.  The  clarification  desired,  however, 
would  help  insurers  in  marketing  these  policies  (and 
the  policy  holders  who  receive  long-term  care  bene¬ 
fits  under  the  policy).  Current  tax  law  does  not  define 
long-term  care  and  therefore  leaves  the  treatment  of 
long-term  care  and  long-term  care  insurance  ambigu¬ 
ous.  It  is  not  clear  under  current  tax  law  whether  the 
benefit  payment  received  must  be  reported  as  taxable 
income.  Treating  these  benefits  as  health  benefits 
would  clarify  that  the  benefits  are  not  subject  to  fed¬ 
eral  income  taxes. 


238 


Adding  a  Long-Term  Care  Option  to  Medicare  * 


One  approach  to  expanding  long-term  care  cover¬ 
age  would  be  to  offer  individuals  over  age  65  an 
option  to  limit  Medicare  acute  care  coverage  in  order 
to  pay  for  a  long-term  care  benefit.  Individuals  could 
choose  what  mix  of  acute  and  long-term  care  benefits 
they  want. 


The  Tradeoffs 

At  least  part  of  the  costs  of  any  long-term  care  in¬ 
surance  could  be  defrayed  by  raising  the  deductibles 
for  Medicare’s  existing  acute  care  benefits.  The  costs 
could  be  spread  over  both  Parts  A  and  B,  although 
Part  A  is  more  complicated  and  could  result  in  multi¬ 
ple  deductibles  as  it  is  currently  configured.  Simpler 
and  perhaps  a  more  manageable  mechanism  would  be 
to  raise  only  the  Part  B  deductible. 

Since  so  many  beneficiaries  now  exceed  the  Part  B 
deductible,  raising  it  just  a  little  will  yield  consider¬ 
able  revenues.  As  the  deductible  amount  increases, 
however,  the  “return”  from  this  process  declines. 
Fewer  and  fewer  beneficiaries  are  likely  to  have  such 
high  physician  expenses.  For  example,  increasing  the 
Part  B  deductible  to  $400  from  its  current  $75  would 
save  approximately  $172  per  enrollee  in  1991.  Raising 
the  deductible  to  $600  would  save  approximately  $249 
to  be  applied  to  a  long-term  care  benefit.  Pushing  the 
deductible  to  $800  would  raise  $314  per  enrollee  (un¬ 
official  CBO  numbers). 

What  will  it  cost  to  offer  limited  long-term  care 
benefits  to  the  elderly?  The  cost  of  a  one  year  “front- 
end”  program  (covering  the  first  year  of  nursing 
home  care)  would  be  approximately  $400  per  en¬ 
rollee.  The  public  cost  of  a  nursing  home  benefit  that 
would  begin  after  a  two  year  waiting  period  (“back¬ 
end  coverage”)  would  be  approximately  $600  per 
person.  (These  are  actually  1993  costs  expressed  in 
1989  dollars— but  they  offer  a  reasonable  benchmark 
for  comparison  with  what  could  be  raised  from  Part 
B  deductible  increases.) 


*  Briefing  paper  prepared  by  Marilyn  Moon  for  February  5,  1990,  working 
meeting. 


These  figures  suggest  that  it  would  be  difficult  to 
fund  even  very  restricted  benefits  from  a  Part  B  de¬ 
ductible  increase.  To  do  so  would  likely  require  a 
Part  B  deductible  of  $1000  and  a  Part  A  deductible 
increase  as  well.  At  that  level,  individuals  opting  for 
the  long-term  care  option  would  expose  themselves  to 
considerable  acute  care  risks  each  year. 

Another  approach  could  be  to  allow  individuals  to 
pay  part  of  the  costs  through  a  higher  premium  and 
part  through  an  increase  in  the  Part  B  deductible. 
Beneficiaries  who  chose  such  an  option  could  then  be 
assessed  an  add-on  to  their  Part  B  premium.  The  risks 
of  high  acute  care  costs  in  any  year  would  be  less¬ 
ened  and  spread  more  evenly  over  time. 


Who  is  Likely  to  Buy? 

Higher  income  individuals  who  can  afford  to  sup¬ 
plement  the  limitations  on  acute  care  benefits  may  be 
likely  to  choose  the  long-term  care  option.  However, 
such  individuals  may  also  be  able  to  afford  more  com¬ 
prehensive  policies  through  the  private  sector.  A  lim¬ 
ited  benefit  might  appeal  to  moderate  income  elderly 
persons  who  cannot  afford  comprehensive,  private 
plans  but  who  would  like  a  limited  benefit. 

Adverse  Selection — One  danger  is  that  those  who 
fmd  it  most  to  their  advantage  to  choose  a  long-term 
care  option  may  be  those  at  greatest  risk — creating  a 
problem  of  adverse  selection. 

In  theory,  at  age  65  there  is  a  large  pool  of  individ¬ 
uals  in  good  health  who,  if  they  opt  for  long-term 
care  coverage,  could  result  in  a  reasonable  risk  group 
for  the  program.  Most  individuals  are  reasonably 
healthy  at  age  65  and  do  not  begin  needing  long¬ 
term  care  support  until  they  are  in  their  late  seventies. 
But  that  very  fact  may  result  in  such  individuals 
opting  for  the  acute  care  coverage  since  they  are 
likely  to  make  use  of  such  insurance  in  their  sixties 
and  seventies. 

Even  at  age  65,  a  considerable  portion  of  Medicare 
beneficiaries  may  have  a  sense  of  the  likelihood  of 
need  for  long-term  care.  For  example,  each  year  ap- 


239 


proximately  180,000  persons  who  are  receiving  Social 
Security  disability  benefits  turn  65.  In  addition,  others 
who  may  not  have  qualified  as  totally  and  perma¬ 
nently  disabled  under  Social  Security  may  also  have 
some  disability  that  is  likely  to  result  in  eligibility  for 
long-term  care  benefits  over  time.  Persons  with 
chronic  conditions  such  as  arthritis  or  diabetes  may 
also  be  able  to  anticipate  future  needs  for  long-term 
care  services. 

It  would  be  unfair  to  prevent  such  individuals  from 
participating;  indeed,  giving  such  persons  access  to 
coverage  would  seem  to  be  a  goal  of  the  program. 
Nonetheless,  if  these  individuals  chose  the  long-term 
care  option,  the  group  could  start  out  with  a  very  ad¬ 
verse  risk  pool  that  could  quickly  escalate  costs  and 
discourage  others  from  participating.  Private  insurers 
who  could  exclude  individuals  in  poor  health  could 
offer  better  plans  to  those  in  good  health,  further  af¬ 
fecting  adverse  selection. 

In  addition,  to  offer  stability  to  the  program,  con¬ 
siderable  limits  would  need  to  be  placed  on  how 
often,  if  ever,  an  individual  would  be  able  to  switch. 
A  one-time  only  decision  would  certainly  be  the  sim¬ 
plest  to  administer  and  result  in  the  least  amount  of 
adverse  selection.  Another  approach  might  be  to  only 
permit  a  one-time  choice  but  offer  some  flexibility  by 
allowing  individuals  to  postpone  the  decision  until  age 
70,  for  example.  In  such  a  case  everyone  would  start 
out  in  the  traditional  Medicare  program,  but  be  able 
to  switch  to  the  long-term  care  option  up  until  they 
reach  age  70.  The  premium  cost  and/or  deductible 
tradeoff  would  rise  over  time  to  reflect  the  greater 
actuarial  costs  of  allowing  such  choice. 

More  frequent  switching — for  example,  offering  the 
choice  every  five  years — could  also  be  allowed,  but 
could  substantially  drive  up  the  costs  of  the  program. 
Under  such  a  scheme,  there  would  be  fewer  years  to 
build  the  equity  in  the  long-term  care  option  and  thus 
it  would  require  much  greater  tradeoffs  against  the 
acute  care  benefits.  In  addition,  if  considerable  switch¬ 
ing  is  allowed,  private  insurers  might  be  less  willing 
to  offer  supplemental  or  wrap-around  policies — par¬ 
ticularly  for  long-term  care. 

Who  Benefits? — If  the  deductibles  necessary  to  sup¬ 
port  the  program  are  as  large  as  it  appears,  the  takeup 
of  this  option  is  likely  to  be  quite  small  and  limited  to 
individuals  who  know  that  they  will  need  long-term 
care.  This  would  certainly  be  an  important  benefit  to 
such  individuals  because  they  probably  will  never  be 
able  to  purchase  such  protection  in  the  private 
market.  What  is  largely  unknown  is  the  perception  of 
the  value  of  the  tradeoff  between  a  $1000  or  more  de¬ 


ductible  on  the  acute  care  side  for  a  limited  nursing 
home  benefit. 

Another  possible  group  opting  for  long-term  care 
coverage  would  be  individuals  who  have  good  wrap¬ 
around  coverage  from  employers  or  as  retirees.  They 
would  likely  view  a  long-term  care  benefit  as  a  way 
to  avoid  duplicate  coverage  that  they  now  have  on 
the  acute  care  side.  Similarly,  some  individuals  may 
simply  prefer  to  buy  private  acute  care  policies  in  ex¬ 
change  for  some  long-term  care  coverage.  These 
would  likely  be  relatively  high  income  beneficiaries 
who  could  afford  to  pay  another  $500  or  more  a  year 
in  premiums. 

Who  Loses? — In  theory,  the  Medicare  option  would 
be  cost  neutral  and  no  one  should  lose  from  this  plan. 
In  practice,  however,  there  may  a  risk  of  destabilizing 
Medicare.  Acute  health  and  long-term  care  insurance 
represent  very  different  types  of  insurance  risk  and  re¬ 
quire  different  streams  of  benefits  over  time.  It  would 
be  difficult  to  initially  set  an  appropriate  tradeoff  be¬ 
tween  the  acute  and  long-term  care  options  so  as  to 
ensure  actuarial  fairness.  Windfalls  or  shortfalls  could 
be  created  for  Medicare  over  time,  requiring  adjust¬ 
ments  that  could  throw  the  system  out  of  balance. 
The  premium  for  long-term  care  insurance  might  rise 
more  rapidly  than  anticipated,  for  example,  generating 
not  only  a  crisis  for  Medicare,  but  also  for  benefici¬ 
aries  as  well. 

If  costs  rise  faster  in  one  program  or  the  other,  the 
perception  of  inequity  in  treatment  could  create  con¬ 
siderable  discontent  on  the  part  of  beneficiaries.  Even 
if  the  financial  balance  could  be  kept,  pressures  to 
expand  coverage  might  be  great  from  individuals  in 
one  option  who  “guessed  wrong”  to  be  able  to  switch 
or  at  least  to  receive  some  relief. 

Finally,  another  group  of  losers  could  be  the  mod¬ 
erate  income  individuals  enticed  to  opt  for  long-term 
care  coverage.  Several  years  of  high  out-of-pocket 
acute  care  costs  could  wipe  out  their  resources 
so  that  they  would  be  eligible  for  Medicaid  coverage 
and  never  actually  benefit  from  the  long-term  care 
protection. 


Subsidizing  the  Option 

Perhaps  the  strongest  criticisms  of  a  Medicare 
option  of  this  sort  centers  on  how  few  individuals  will 
benefit  unless  some  sort  of  a  subsidy  is  offered  to 
those  of  modest  means.  An  option  that  would  require 
substantially  higher  out-of-pocket  costs  for  acute  care 
would  pose  untenable  choices  to  many  of  the  elderly. 


240 


For  example,  a  single  woman  with  an  income  at  200 
percent  of  the  poverty  line  (about  $12,000)  is  likely  to 
have  out-of-pocket  costs  of  about  $2000,  on  average. 
That  represents  about  17%  of  the  person’s  income. 
Another  $400  in  out-of-pocket  costs  or  premiums 
would  increase  that  total  to  20%— likely  to  be  beyond 
the  budget  of  that  individual.  This  person  would  be 
better  off  to  rely  on  Medicaid  for  her  long-term  care 
needs.  The  issue  becomes  more  complicated  for  those 
with  somewhat  higher  incomes,  but  for  whom  re¬ 
sources  are  still  stretched. 

A  simple  long-term  care  option  to  Medicare  could 
be  offered  as  part  of  a  package  that  also  improved 
long-term  care  coverage  for  those  at  lower  incomes  in 
order  to  provide  some  help  to  all  elderly  persons. 
Such  a  combination  could  be,  but  would  not  need  to 
be,  achieved  by  giving  the  Medicare  optional  cover¬ 
age  to  low  income  persons  (with  no  resultant  re¬ 
ductions  in  acute  care  coverage),  and  allowing  a 
subsidized  buy-in  to  those  with  somewhat  higher  in¬ 


comes.  By  putting  the  coverage  together  in  a  single 
package,  the  pool  of  persons  in  a  public  plan  would 
be  increased,  probably  lessening  adverse  selection  that 
would  occur  without  any  subsidized  participation. 
Alternatively,  such  an  option  to  Medicare  could 
simply  be  offered  at  the  same  time  as  a  Medicaid  im¬ 
provement,  keeping  the  two  programs  separate  but  ar¬ 
guing  that  all  the  elderly  would  now  have  access  to 
some  federal  long-term  care  protection. 

How  could  such  a  subsidized  plan  be  offered?  A 
buy-in  of  the  deductibles,  premiums  and  copays  for 
Medicare  acute  care  is  now  being  phased  in  for  those 
with  incomes  below  the  poverty  level.  This  could  be 
extended  to  the  long-term  care  option.  And  individ¬ 
uals  above  poverty,  but  still  with  limited  resources, 
could  be  offered  the  option  of  buying  into  this 
extended  insurance.  At  some  point,  the  Medicare  en- 
rollee  would  have  to  bear  the  full  cost  of  the  pre¬ 
mium — or  accept  a  higher  Part  B  deductible  in  order 
to  obtain  the  long-term  care  option. 


241 


28-861  (248) 


°o  ** 

o' 

°z  - 

O 


'«w?  rAdi 

<t*  "  vrx~ 


l1  * 


*  />.  ^  >V  •£»  O  ^A)  ^  ^ 

»>° . .  *  ^V*"0’  * »' V* 11  ’>®  •  •  •  »♦  V* 

?V»H-  W/A'*  ^ 

o  *  v 


>0 

0  ^ 

**  <®  on  -* 

^  »o^  0 

7gjX'r  W  sum  o  W  /J®f 

•#v\  \W/  /\  ‘.w/  \W1**  ^x  * 

:  *+<?  ;4sm»  V  •H^:  ^  ? 

°  ^  'Mm^  »%  'ltl§\°  «5°*  t 

^  y  0  rf*  ^zlljw  *  o  £*.  *  * 

^OMO^  .  .  O,  V  .  -  -  ft  *  <0 


z  w  £ 

J  tUBl^  0  o  55 

k  ’,5®9v  #  V-. 

ft  *  V?  O4  ^  -  *  S  * 

/,«r'*A  >  Vi^A 

0  **  c^S^v-ji  T.  0  ^  #T  -  ** 


tI 

«  L,a*  *  - 


A^"1  <{  A  o  „  '<t> 


8  n  0 


*  H  -f 


\L  'r#  '  N>v^  a 

%  »D„0’ 


+  *1  A  A 

:  V  :« 

O  A>V^ 


*  / ’  \  %w»*  -r  %  °: 
/^°“°*  A?  *  *  '.A*  "*A 


°o  *<■ 

$  *■< * °*  \ 
A^Va<' 

%■<&  :mmi  '*4 


'  9  aP'/V  *  o  A 0a  „s£: 

»*  <^ZwJhi-£>  v  <>  <yk  *  NtiV\xX^  s  <<r  ^  r,  < 

■  ^  ojM;  :fl|S  < 


v^  '°o  A/ 

\  Y  : 

‘A  ^  ^  ♦ 

ri  V  ( 


o'p  d- 


^v%  \ 


\\/Y 

°  & 1  j?\ \WJ  &x  \W/  /\  w  ^ 

/>-Xf  ^  •  *  % 

VV:M*  V  fc^v"  -^'  ^ 

°  ^  \  **‘‘4^*  O^A  *'  -  ■w  .  -V 

.# 

*  *'  ‘ 


,v  ,< 

•*  Jo  >  / 

'  ^OV^  . 

*  V°Av 
^.o°  '♦ 


' 


« 

V> 

\0-Ca  A&  *'*&>?*  A 


.  •Mm:  »°  ^w*  •  tfes  *  « 

i-  V  ^  c'^0»*  -  ^  *°  -*-< 

50.  t Mm-  <o< 


'AVA'.^  &-'**•**  *>  *  *****  -f 


*  ’  vy  f1 

If  D  -V-fj,,  "  ©iM^O  o5P* 

;  w  ❖  O'*  ^*4\vX$“  s  ^  *o.  <? 

Ao°  ^^vOKOo*  ^  00,V 

A,  4  v' V*A#**% 

t.  ,X  ^AVUL^-  V>  *  v  -  N\W/H  O  >yO  fK  ^  ♦  fj\m  O  T^ 

5  «  |l|*r  <!t#  **<?  1  Jill* 

^  <,  Ui  A  ^O  »  A^oNG.^^  ^  *  L,i/^  #°*  l+  ^ 

*  *ta  o  .* jsssuh. ',.  0  f  +  xa  a°  « 


p  cl*7  “f 
J  -  'TV  O 

«J  ’A  »  CS:  w':^  *  .Ap'  A  o 

p4  ^  *  o. 

C°NG^  ^O  -A  ' 


•”  *>°  *  *  * :>;‘-°’  VA  *  »:v 

y  *7*  \o-.  A, 


<»  .  ^  ^  M  r-as  —  -  ^ 

*>  &°*c  v^^P»*  o^V-^A  '♦;  .. 

”_A,5  *  *  f*  V»K»,^vt  .o,^*.'!  “Y”,  .  •  ^  VV3«°’  V^v»'  "  A"" 

Z  . . .  ” 


►  °  «•  f*  o  *  .<^,'fj>.  *  ^{'‘'T|-  v"  ®  O  » 

/>  0 Jv^vT «  a-  <yK  ^ 'HirL/'*  ^  ^v.  #’«/**  4 

/<i»°'°  •  1*A&coNc,^I^  •  »  ’*£?'•  «  L,»/<f?°  •  l'A&0o»o,  '\"J  *  *  5lj^»«  l',SW°  ’  1 *V° 
-’-  tr.  cP.’jJS^V  0  .A^  \  6  00  &  >ti$fo?*\,  t? -i 

*»;  v-04  °^t»s.  *ov4  ta-o*  c 

/\  ^  ,'*vv  r“t?  m  /^  A  a  ’'^Cig  Li'WV  _  ^  4  41 


0  ^o  ^ 


o  *. 


O  «£*  .♦  —  "  x 

*  <y  ** 

"ov  * 

♦  -p-fx  • 


n 


